-- Business Inventories in U.S. Rose in October as Sales Dropped
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-12-13T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/business-inventories-in-u-s-rose-in-october-as-sales-dropped.html
Inventories in the U.S. climbed at a
slower pace in October as sales dropped, indicating companies
are trying to keep a tight rein on stockpiles heading into
possible fiscal policy changes.  The 0.4 percent increase in goods on hand followed a 0.7
percent gain in September, the Commerce Department reported
today in  Washington . Sales at factories, wholesalers and
retailers fell 0.4 percent, the first decrease since June, after
advancing 1.2 percent.  Companies are keeping inventories lean out of concern that
the economic recovery could stall if the U.S. fails to avert a
package of government spending cuts and tax increases set to
take effect next year. Another report today showed retail
purchases climbed in November as auto demand rebounded and
holiday shoppers snapped up electronics and clothes.  “Sales are running below inventory growth,” Neil Dutta,
U.S. economist at Renaissance Macro Research LLC in  New York ,
said before the report. “Businesses haven’t been cautious
enough.”  Other reports today showed claims for jobless benefits fell
more than forecast last week and producer prices dropped last
month as fuel costs retreated.  A 0.3 percent gain in retail purchases last month followed
a 0.3 percent decrease in October, other Commerce Department
figures showed. The biggest drop in service-station receipts in
four years, reflecting lower fuel costs, restrained the gain in
total purchases.  Fewer Claims  Applications for unemployment insurance payments dropped by
29,000 to 343,000 in the week ended Dec. 8, the fewest since
reaching a four-year low in early October, Labor Department
figures showed  The  producer price index  declined 0.8 percent last month,
the most since May, after falling 0.2 percent in October, other
Labor Department figures also showed. The core measure, which
excludes volatile food and energy, increased 0.1 percent after
falling 0.2 percent.  The median in a Bloomberg survey of 41 economists forecast
a 0.4 increase in inventories. Estimates ranged from a 0.2
percent drop to a 0.6 percent rise.  At the current sales pace, businesses had enough goods on
hand to last 1.29 months in October, up from 1.28 months in
September.  Retailer inventories, the only part of today’s stockpile
report not previously released, climbed 0.6 percent as sales
fell 0.4 percent.  Auto Inventories  Auto dealerships are increasing discounts and incentives in
an effort to clear lots for next year’s models.  General Motors
Co. (GM)  last month was caught with more double its typical supply of
trucks as competitors boosted buyer incentives to sell their
2012 model-year pickups.  Other companies are trying to balance the prospect of next
year’s changes in fiscal policy, which could slow spending, with
the possibility that the package of tax increases and spending
cuts will be averted and boost demand.  It’s a fine line to walk, said Gus Halas, president of
 Central Garden & Pet Co. (CENT) , a Walnut Creek, California company
whose brands include Pennington Seed.  “This is an area which we must operate with extreme
care,” Halas said on a Dec. 11 earnings call. “While we will
continue to seek ways to free up capital and lower inventory
over time, our commitment is to our customer needs.”  In a survey from the  National Federation of Independent
Business  this week, fewer companies reported plans to increase
goods on hand.  Wholesale  inventories , which account for about 30 percent
of all business stockpiles, rose 0.6 percent in October. Factory
stockpiles climbed 0.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  