-- California Can Cut Medi-Cal Reimbursements, Court Rules
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-12-13T23:56:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/california-can-cut-medi-cal-reimbursements-court-rules.html
California  can cut reimbursement
rates for medical-care providers in Medi-Cal, the state health
program for the poor, a federal appeals court ruled, overturning
a lower-court judge who had blocked the reductions.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in San Francisco today said the
California Department of Health Care Services and U.S. Health
and Human Services secretary acted properly in reviewing and
approving the cuts. U.S. District Judge Christina Snyder said
last year that the hospital groups and service providers who
sued to stop the reductions were likely to succeed.  “The secretary’s approval of California’s requested
reimbursement rates, including her permissible view that prior
to reducing rates states need not follow any specific procedural
steps, such as considering providers’ costs, is entitled to
deference,” the appellate panel said.  The U.S. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services last
year approved the proposal to reduce Medi-Cal reimbursement
rates. The cuts were part of the state’s 2011-12 budget and were
expected to save $623 million, according to an Oct. 27, 2011,
statement by the Department of Health Care Services.  The California Hospital Association said in its complaint
that the cuts of more than 20 percent would mark a return to
rates that courts have found violate the federal Medicaid Act.
The reductions would threaten the ability of many hospitals to
operate skilled nursing units, the group said.  ‘Fiscal Crisis’  “The state’s fiscal crisis does not outweigh the serious
irreparable injury the plaintiffs would suffer absent the
issuance of an injunction,” Snyder said in her ruling last
year.  In a separate decision, the lower-court judge had also
blocked the state from cutting Medi-Cal reimbursement rates for
pharmacies by 10 percent, saying that there was enough evidence
pharmacies may have to reduce services or close, and that Medi-
Cal beneficiaries would lose access to drugs. Both the hospital
and pharmacy cuts were to be retroactive to June 1, 2011.  Jan Emerson-Shea, a spokeswoman for the California Hospital
Association, said in a phone interview that the group is
reviewing the ruling and hasn’t decided yet what its next step
will be.  “We are certainly disappointed,” Emerson-Shea said. “We
are very concerned about access to care.”  Hospitals that operate skilled nursing units that provide
complex medical care for elderly patients won’t be able to
absorb the lower rates as they’re already reimbursed by Medi-Cal
below their costs, Emerson-Shea said. Some hospitals may be
forced to close these units outright, she said.  The case is Managed Pharmacy Care v. Sebelius, 12-55067,
U.S. Court of Appeals, Ninth Circuit (San Francisco.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  