-- Cameron Sees Opportunity as EU Begins Discussing Its Future
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-12-13T19:23:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/cameron-sees-opportunity-as-eu-begins-discussing-its-future.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
seized on European Union efforts to improve governance and
increase integration as an opportunity to reposition Britain’s
role in the 27-nation bloc.  As leaders arrived in Brussels to discuss proposals for the
future that may include changes to existing EU treaties, Cameron
said he sees “opportunities” to shape the agenda as he seeks
to appease an increasingly vocal group of lawmakers in his
 Conservative Party  back home.  “These are broader discussions really about how Europe is
changing, and a lot of that change is being driven because of
the euro and because the countries in the euro need to integrate
more, need to integrate their institutions more,” Cameron said.  German plans to water down and delay proposals from
European Commission President  Jose Barroso  and EU President
 Herman Van Rompuy  will form the basis of talks between leaders.
The gathering may set a 2013 target for binding euro governments
to German-inspired economic-reform contracts, while putting off
any increases in European financing until after 2014.  Cameron said the drive for closer integration that the U.K.
won’t be a part of provides the opportunity to seek concessions
from the EU that give the U.K. greater autonomy. Cameron won’t
make firm demands today at a dinner with the other 26 leaders,
his aides said.  ‘Important Conversations’  “Britain’s not in the euro, we’re not going to join the
euro, so we won’t be part of that integration, but this change
taking place does give us the opportunities to argue for the
things that we want in  Europe  and get a better deal for Britain
in Europe,” Cameron said. “That’s what I’m interested in
discussing and pursuing for Britain. That won’t be decided
today, but it’s a start of some important conversations where I
think Britain can actually do better.”  Under pressure from his party, Cameron has signaled he’d be
prepared to offer a referendum on a renegotiated relationship
with the EU after the next election due in 2015.  Cameron said Dec. 10 he’ll set out his plans soon to
renegotiate membership and that he’ll be arguing for Britain to
stay in the EU. He denied this would mean confronting his party.  What the outcome of a referendum would be is unclear. As in
1975, when Britons voted against leaving the European Economic
Community, those arguing for staying in would include the
leaders of all three main parties. Against them would be many
Conservative lawmakers and the anti-EU U.K. Independence Party,
which recently scored its best-ever results in special elections
to fill House of Commons vacancies, finishing second in two held
on Nov. 29.  Conservative opponents of EU membership argue that
Cameron’s refusal to call a plebiscite before 2015 harms their
electoral prospects. One, Michael Fabricant, argued last month
for an electoral pact with UKIP, arguing that promising a
referendum would stop the Conservatives losing support to the
anti-EU party.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  