-- Canada October New House Price Index Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-12-13T13:30:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/canada-october-new-house-price-index-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
the new house price index report for October released by
 Statistics Canada .  The New Housing Price Index (NHPI) rose 0.2% in October,
following similar increases throughout the year.  The combined metropolitan region of Toronto and Oshawa, as
well as the region of Montréal, were the top contributors to the
advance. In Toronto and Oshawa, market conditions were the
primary reason for higher prices. In Montréal, the main factors
were higher material and labour costs as well as new building
code requirements.  The largest monthly price advance in October occurred in
Hamilton (+0.8%), followed by Winnipeg which recorded a 0.5%
increase. In Hamilton, builders reported new higher list prices.
In Winnipeg, the rise was primarily the result of an increase in
the cost of material and labour.  Prices were unchanged in 11 of the 21 metropolitan regions
surveyed in October. Monthly prices declined 0.2% in
Charlottetown as a result of lower negotiated selling prices,
and decreased 0.1% in the combined metropolitan region of
Sudbury and Thunder Bay as a result of lower lot prices.  On a year-over-year basis, the NHPI rose 2.4% in the 12
months to October, following a similar increase the previous
month. The main contributor to the advance was the combined
metropolitan region of Toronto and Oshawa, where the year-over-
year-increase in contractors’ selling prices was 4.9%. It was
followed by a 3.9% increase in Winnipeg.  Other significant year-over-year increases occurred in
Regina (+3.5%) and Québec (+3.4%).  Among the 21 metropolitan regions surveyed, 4 posted 12-
month price declines in October. The largest decrease was in
Victoria (-2.5%).  Note to readers  The New Housing  Price Index  measures changes over time in
the selling prices of new residential houses agreed upon between
the contractor and the buyer at the time of the signing of the
contract. It is designed to measure the changes in the selling
prices of new houses where detailed specifications pertaining to
each house remain the same between two consecutive periods. The
prices collected from builders and included in the index are
market selling prices less value added taxes, such as the
Federal Goods and Services Tax or the Harmonized Sales Tax.  The provincial government of British Columbia introduced
legislation on May 14, 2012, announcing the return to a
provincial sales tax on April 1, 2013. From April 1, 2012, until
March 31, 2013, there are new housing transitional rebates in
place. After the transition is complete, the provincial  sales
tax  on building materials in British Columbia will be embedded
in contractors’ selling prices of new houses. These changes will
be reflected in the New Housing Price Index as reported by
respondents.  The indexes are not subject to revision and are not
seasonally adjusted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  