-- Canada Third Quarter Capacity Utilization Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-12-13T13:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/canada-third-quarter-capacity-utilization-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
 Canada ’s capacity utilization report for the third quarter
released by Statistics Canada.  Canadian industries operated at 80.9% of their production
capacity in the third quarter, the same level as in the previous
quarter. Both the manufacturing and non-manufacturing sectors
remained unchanged.  The third quarter pause came in the wake of four
consecutive increases since the third quarter of 2011, ranging
from 0.1 to 0.9 percentage points.  The transportation equipment industry continues to lead the
manufacturing sector  Capacity utilization in the manufacturing sector remained
unchanged at 81.7% in the third quarter.  The strength of the transportation equipment industry kept
the manufacturing sector’s capacity utilization rate from
declining. Excluding the growth in the transportation equipment
industry’s capacity use, the manufacturing sector would have
decreased 0.2 percentage points in the third quarter.  The capacity utilization rate was up in 7 of the 21 major
manufacturing groups in the third quarter. It declined in 13
industries and was unchanged in 1 industry.  The transportation equipment, miscellaneous manufacturing,
and beverage and tobacco products manufacturing industries
posted increases that had the largest impact on the capacity
utilization rate.  As was the case in the previous quarter, higher production
of motor vehicles and motor vehicle parts and of aerospace
products and their parts raised the capacity utilization rate in
the transportation equipment industry. The rate increased from
91.3% in the second quarter to 92.6% in the third quarter.  In the miscellaneous manufacturing industry, capacity use
rose from 77.1% in the second quarter to 81.2% in the third
quarter. The advance was largely a result of higher production
in the medical equipment and supplies manufacturing industry.  Higher output of non-alcoholic beverages was the main
factor in the increase of the capacity utilization rate for the
beverage and tobacco products manufacturing industry, which rose
to 74.8%.  Capacity use decreased in the majority of industries,
particularly the printing and related support activities, food
and paper industries. The printing and related support
activities industry operated at 72.5% of its capacity, down 3.0
percentage points.  The food manufacturing industry operated at 77.6% of its
capacity, down 0.6 percentage points. The main reason for the
decline was lower production in the seafood product preparation
and packaging sector.  Lower output in the converted paper product manufacturing
industry reduced the capacity utilization rate in the paper
manufacturing industry from 84.6% in the second quarter to 83.5%
in the third quarter.  Non-manufacturing industries: Improvement in the electric power
generation, transmission and distribution industry  As was the case in the manufacturing industries as a whole,
capacity utilization was unchanged in the non-manufacturing
sector. There were declines in mining and oil and gas extraction
and in forestry and logging. Those decreases were offset by
gains in the electric power generation, transmission and
distribution industry and the construction industry.  Higher demand for electricity was responsible for the
increase in the electric power generation, transmission and
distribution industry’s capacity use, which rose 1.4 percentage
points to 83.9%. The advance came after a decline that began in
the third quarter of 2011.  The construction industry remained on an upward trend, as
its capacity utilization rate increased from 80.4% in the second
quarter to 80.7% in the third quarter. The gain resulted from an
increase in residential construction, which was partly
counteracted by a decline in non-residential construction.  Capacity use was down in the oil and gas extraction
industry, falling from 87.8% in the second quarter to 87.1% in
the third quarter. The decline was a result of a decrease in
crude oil production, which more than offset the advance in
natural gas extraction.  A decrease in metallic and non-metallic mineral extraction
more than offset a rise in coal extraction, which lowered
capacity utilization in the mining and quarrying industry by 2.6
percentage points. As a result, the industry’s capacity
utilization rate fell to 58.7%.  Note to readers  The industrial capacity utilization rate is the ratio of an
industry’s actual output to its estimated potential output. For
most industries, the annual estimates are obtained from the
Capital and Repair Expenditures Survey while the quarterly
pattern is derived from output-to-capital ratio series, the
output being the real gross domestic product at basic prices,
seasonally adjusted, by industry.  This program covers all manufacturing and selected non-
manufacturing industries.  At the time of this release, rates have been revised back
to the first quarter of 2009 to reflect updated source data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  