-- Canadian Dollar Declines From 8-Week High on Boehner
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2012-12-13T17:41:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/canadian-dollar-touches-eight-week-high-on-u-s-optimism.html
Canada ’ dollar weakened from an
eight-week high against its U.S. peer after U.S. House Speaker
 John Boehner  said President  Barack Obama  was willing to let the
economy go over the so-called fiscal cliff and into recession.  Canada’s currency advanced earlier as unemployment claims
in the U.S. fell to a nine-week low and retail sales rose. The
U.S. is Canada’s largest largest trading partner. The currency
fluctuated after seven days of gains versus the greenback as
Canada’s household debt ratio rose to a record high compared
with disposable income in the third quarter.  “Boehner’s negative comments today are working against the
Canadian dollar and risk sentiment more generally,” Mazen Issa,
Canada macro strategist at  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ’s TD
Securities, said by phone from Toronto. “It’s really shifting
our focus back to the immediate issue at hand, which is the
fiscal cliff.”  The  Canadian dollar , known as the loonie for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, fell 0.1 percent to 98.52
cents per  U.S. dollar  at 12:41 p.m. in Toronto after touching
98.25, the strongest since Oct. 18. The longest previous streak
of gains for the loonie was nine days, ending Jan. 3, 2011. One
Canadian dollar buys $1.0150.  Canada’s government bonds  fell , with yields on the
benchmark 10-year security rising four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 1.79 percent. The 2.75 percent security due
in June 2022 declined 33 cents to C$108.30.  Crude oil, Canada’s biggest export, fell 0.4 percent to
$86.47 a barrel in  New York . Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of
stocks fell 05 percent.  ‘Not Serious’  Boehner, an  Ohio Republican , repeated his insistence that
Obama’s budget proposal is “anything but” balanced and accused
the president of being “not serious” about cutting spending.  House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi , a California Democrat,
said today that talk of deeper spending cuts demanded by
Republicans should await discussions on a tax overhaul next
year.  Lawmakers are trying to avert than $600 billion in tax
increases and federal spending cuts scheduled to take effect in
January 2013 that threatens to drag the  U.S. economy  over a
“fiscal cliff.”  The loonie rose earlier as applications for jobless
benefits in the U.S. fell by 29,000 to 343,000 in the week ended
Dec. 8, the fewest since reaching a four-year low in the period
ended Oct. 6, Labor Department figures showed today. The U.S.
also posted a 0.3 percent rise in retail sales in November as
car sales reached a four-year high.  Consumer Credit  “We obviously export most of our goods to the  United
States , and so economic strength for them is economic strength
for us,” said Aaron Fennell, a futures specialist at
Scotiabank’s ScotiaMcLeod unit by phone from Toronto. “If
they’re eroding the currency value, it’s going to be good for
the Canadian dollar.”  The loonie pared gains earlier today as Canadians defied
Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney ’s warnings that  consumer
credit  was the biggest threat to the country’s economy. The
ratio of credit-market debt such as mortgages rose to 164.6
percent from a 163.3 percent in the prior three-month period,
 Statistics Canada  said in Ottawa.  The nation’s new-home price  index  rose for a 19th
consecutive month in October, led by gains in Toronto and
Montreal, according to a separate report. The 0.2 percent gain
in  new-home prices  matched the previous two readings and the
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey with 10 responses.
From a year earlier, new-home prices increased 2.4 percent in
October.  Loonie ‘Positive’  The currency gained yesterday after the U.S. Federal
Reserve announced it would add $45 billion in additional asset
purchases a month to spur the economy, a move that could debase
the currency.  “With the Fed yesterday, that should be small Canadian-
dollar positive,” David Bradley, director of foreign-exchange
trading at Scotia Capital Inc., a unit of  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) ,
said by phone from Toronto. “I think the Canadian dollar is
going to gradually drift stronger as we head into the end of the
year.”  Canada’s currency has gained 1.2 percent this year versus
nine developed-nation peers tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes. The greenback has dropped 2.8 percent and the
yen has been the biggest loser, tumbling 11 percent. New
Zealand’s dollar leads gainers, up 6.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  