-- Canada Household Debt Ratio Hits Record 164.6% in 3Q
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-12-13T17:27:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/canada-household-debt-ratio-hits-record-164-6-in-3rd-quarter.html
The ratio of Canadian household debt
to disposable income rose to a record last quarter, highlighting
what Bank of  Canada  Governor Mark Carney called the biggest
domestic risk to the economy.  Credit-market debt such as mortgages rose to 164.6 percent
of disposable income, compared with 163.3 percent in the prior
three-month period, Statistics Canada said today in Ottawa.
Disposable income rose 0.8 percent while consumer credit-market
debt advanced 1.8 percent.  “Household debt remains excessive and is a notable risk to
future Canadian economic growth,” said Diana Petramala, an
economist at  Toronto-Dominion Bank. (TD)  “Given the prospects that
interest rates will eventually rise, households must cool their
spending and borrowing further.”  The share of households that pay more than 40 percent of
income to service debt would rise to 20 percent, from 12 percent
now, under a scenario where the central bank lifts its key rate
to 4.25 percent from today’s 1 percent by mid-2015, the Bank of
Canada said in a Dec. 6 report.  Moody’s placed  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) , Toronto-Dominion Bank
and four other lenders on review for possible downgrade on Oct.
26, citing the heightened risk to Canada’s economy from rising
consumer debt and real estate prices. The Moody’s review
followed a similar outlook downgrade by Standard & Poor’s
Ratings Services in July.  Household net worth rose 1 percent to C$6.92 trillion
($7.03 trillion) last quarter, Statistics Canada said today.  Equity Fell  The equity held by consumers as a percentage of real estate
value fell to 69 percent in the third quarter from 69.3 percent
in the previous quarter.  Non-financial companies reduced their ratio of credit-
market debt to equity to 54 percent in the third quarter from 55
percent in the second quarter, extending a decline that began in
the early 1990s, Statistics Canada said.  Carney is relying on business investment to drive economic
growth over the next two years, and has said some companies are
sitting on “dead money” that should be used to boost
competitiveness and tap into faster-growing  emerging markets .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  