-- Canadian Solar Sees Growth From Selling Power
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2012-12-13T21:08:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/canadian-solar-sees-growth-from-selling-power.html
Canadian Solar Inc. (CSIQ) , the solar-panel
maker whose shares have dropped 77 percent in the past two
years, plans to get almost half its revenue next year from
selling solar farms after prices for panels collapsed.  The third-largest solar-panel maker, based in Guelph,
Ontario, is developing about 260 megawatts of projects in the
Canadian province that it expects to sell for C$1.3 billion
($1.3 billion) over the next 18 months, Chief Financial Officer
Michael Potter said. Canadian Solar makes its photovoltaic
products in  China .  A global oversupply drove down panel  prices  60 percent
since November 2010. Competitors led by  First Solar Inc. (FSLR)  are
chasing sales by building solar farms with their panels and
selling the projects to power companies. Canadian Solar hasn’t
reported a profit in five quarters as revenue slid 32 percent
and moving further downstream gives the company a dedicated
market for its products, Potter said.  “Our decision a few years ago to go more into development
has put us in a position where we have a much better chance of
swinging back to profitability in the near term than a lot of
our competition,” Potter said in an interview Dec. 10 in
Bloomberg’s Toronto bureau.  Share Decline  Shares fell 77 percent in the past two years after peaking
at $51 in 2008. Canadian Solar tumbled to $2.03 on Nov. 15, a
record low, after third-quarter sales declined and the company
reduced its 2012 shipment forecast to 1.5 gigawatts to 1.6
gigawatts of panels. It shipped 1.3 gigawatts in 2011, and was
the third-largest panel maker by capacity, after  Suntech Power
Holdings Co. (STP)  and First Solar.  Canadian Solar declined was unchanged today at $3.01 in New
York. The shares gained 11 percent yesterday on reports
indicating that China was boosting financial support for the
industry. The company today announced the hiring of Zhang Guangchun as chief operating officer.  A growing number of solar manufacturers are expanding their
development efforts. First Solar was one of the first to pursue
this strategy and was the only profitable panel maker in the
second and third quarters of this year among the 17-member
 Bloomberg Large Solar Index. (BISOLAR)  The Tempe, Arizona-based company is
developing projects for customers including  Warren Buffett .  There is room in the industry for other manufacturer-
developers, said Jenny Chase, head solar analyst for Bloomberg
New Energy Finance.  “It’s not about being first -- it’s about making money,”
Chase said in a phone interview on Dec. 11.  Income Generation  Solar farms offer steady, long-term revenue from selling
electricity, which makes them attractive investments, Potter
said.  “If you think about it, it’s a long-term bond at a higher
yield, because it’s an asset that generates income,” he said.  Canadian Solar announced Dec. 3 a C$139 million loan from
Deutsche Bank AG to build five solar farms in Ontario with total
capacity of about 49 megawatts.  TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  has agreed to
buy the projects, which will sell electricity to Ontario Power
Authority under 20-year contracts.  The solar company may eventually shift its development
strategy by building and retaining power plants. “We’re going
to slowly but surely pick some projects that we’re going to keep
ourselves,” Potter said. “Two to three years from now, I
wouldn’t be surprised if we started owning more projects.”  That business is significantly different from building and
selling solar farms, Chase said.  “I don’t think it makes sense for them long term, a
manufacturer to be an owner of assets -- it’s two completely
different asset and capital requirements,” she said. There
“are additional, different risks in project development from
being a manufacturing business.”  China Connection  Canadian Solar was founded in Ontario in 2001. Chief
Executive Officer Shawn Qu is from Beijing and received a Ph.D.
from the  University of Toronto  in 1995, according to the
company’s  website . The company’s business model is based on
manufacturing panels in China, where labor is less expensive
than in  Canada . It has 7,000 to 8,000 employees in China.  Canadian Solar expects to develop solar farms in  Asia ,
especially in China, closer to its manufacturing operations
Potter said, though it may not generate significant sales in the
near term.  “We think it’s going to be a very big market -- but we
don’t think it’s going to be as big as people think as fast as
people think,” Potter said.  “When you start doing projects, there’s a period for a
year or two where the governments and the banks and the
construction companies and everybody kind of sort out what it
means to build a project and how you connect it, and make sure
everybody gets paid properly,” he said. “China’s in that phase
right now.”  Solar Survivors  China announced Dec. 11 that its investments in domestic
solar demonstration projects rose to 13 billion  yuan  ($2
billion) this year. And China Development Bank Corp. agreed last
week to provide as much as $1 billion in financing to JinkoSolar
Holding Co., a sign the government is starting to select the
solar manufacturers it views as most likely to survive the
industry downturn.  Canadian Solar is doing a lot of work on residential
rooftop projects in  Japan , which is a rapidly growing market, Qu
said in an interview in  London  last week. The government in July
introduced the world’s highest feed-in tariff, or fixed-premium
rate, for power from solar plants to help fill the gap as the
nation shifts away from nuclear energy.  “The country is a rapidly growing market and in this
fiscal year we expect to experience healthy volume growth,” Qu
said.  The companies that survive the price slump will eventually
benefit from increased demand that has been driven by falling
prices, Potter said. “It’s been very difficult for the
industry, but it’s good for the long-term success of solar,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Doom in  New York  at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Thorpe at 
 jthorpe23@bloomberg.net ;
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  