-- Canada Third Quarter National Balance Sheet Account (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-12-13T13:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/canada-third-quarter-national-balance-sheet-account-text-.html
The following is the text of
 Canada ’s national balance sheet account report for the
third quarter released by  Statistics Canada .  National net worth and wealth  National net worth increased by over $9 billion to $6.8
trillion in the third quarter, translating to $194,100 on a per
capita basis. In addition to higher prices for many assets,
national saving and revaluations contributed to increased
national wealth. National saving reflected sustained saving by
the corporate sector.  The increase in Canada’s net foreign indebtedness dampened
the gain in national net worth in the third quarter. Higher net
foreign debt was largely a result of increased Canadian
borrowing from abroad and a decrease in the value of Canadian
investment abroad denominated in foreign currency, the latter
reflecting the appreciation in the Canadian dollar.  The resulting rise in national net worth was largely
attributable to higher values of non-financial assets in the
third quarter. National wealth advanced almost $63 billion to
$7.1 trillion at the end of the third quarter, an increase of
0.9% compared with the 1.3% advance in the previous quarter.
Housing investment slowed during the quarter but residential
real estate still contributed materially to the increase in
national wealth.  Sector analysis  Household sector  New household borrowing was $27.3 billion in the third
quarter. Mortgages increased $18.4 billion to $1.1 trillion,
albeit increasing at a slower pace than in the previous quarter.
 Consumer credit  levels reached $474 billion in the third quarter
versus $467 billion in the second quarter.  Owner’s equity as a percentage of real estate edged down to
69.0% in the third quarter, as mortgage debt increased
relatively more than the value of real estate. Leverage as
measured by household credit market debt to disposable income,
increased from 163.3% in the second quarter to 164.6% in the
third quarter, a smaller quarterly increase than seen in the
previous quarter.  Household net worth was up 1.0% in the third quarter, led
by gains in the values of equity holdings (including mutual
funds) and pension assets. The increase in equities reflected a
6.2% rise in the Standard and Poor’s / Toronto Stock Exchange
composite index in the quarter, rebounding from a 6.4% decrease
in the previous quarter. The value of household real estate
increased $24 billion in the third quarter. On a per capita
basis, household net worth rose to $197,800 in the third quarter,
from $196,400 in the previous quarter.  Government  Total government net debt (expressed at book value) rose to
$865.8 billion in the third quarter from $847.9 billion in the
second quarter. The ratio of total government net debt to gross
domestic product (GDP) continued to trend upward, increasing
slightly from 47.3% in the second quarter to 48.0% in the third
quarter.  Non-financial corporations  Slowing demand for funds by private non-financial
corporations in the quarter was reflected in reduced borrowing
via debt instruments while share issuance increased. On a book
value basis, corporations had about 54 cents of credit market
debt for every dollar of equity in the third quarter, a decline
from the second quarter. Leverage has been trending downward for
corporations since the early 1990s, related to a trend towards
increased undistributed corporate profits.  Non-financial corporation gross saving outpaced non-
financial capital acquisition in the third quarter. The
corporate sector remained a net lender to the rest of the
economy, mainly reflecting continued strong internally-generated
funds (undistributed corporate profits).  Institutional investors  Financial institutions saw their financial assets increase
in value to $9.2 trillion, a quarterly increase in excess of
$200 billion. More than a third of this increase was from the
gain in the value of equities, reflecting the turnaround in the
Toronto Stock Exchange in the third quarter. The downward
revaluation of foreign currency denominated investments,
resulting from the appreciation of the Canadian dollar, dampened
the growth in financial assets.  Funds raised on financial markets and credit market debt  Total funds raised by domestic non-financial sectors on
financial markets amounted to $62.5 billion in the third quarter.
Households continued to account for the largest share of the
private sector demand for funds, a trend that emerged in 2004.
The overall government sector demand for funds was lower, led by
non-federal levels of government.  Credit market debt (consumer credit, mortgages, loans,
short-term paper and bonds) of domestic non-financial sectors
totaled $4.0 trillion in the third quarter, up 1.4% from the
previous quarter. Combined bonds and mortgage debt outstanding
reached $2.7 trillion, accounting for more than two-thirds of
total non-financial sector credit market debt outstanding.  Note to readers  This release is a combined analysis of the National balance
sheet accounts and Financial flow accounts. Both sets of data
are available today, a departure from past practice where they
were released separately. The National balance sheet accounts
comprise the balance sheets of all sectors and sub-sectors of
the economy. The main sectors are households, non-profit
institutions serving households, financial corporations, non-
financial corporations, government, and non-residents. They
cover all national non-financial assets and financial asset-
liability claims outstanding in all sectors.  The Financial flow accounts (FFA) measure net lending or
borrowing by examining financial transactions in the economy by
sector. The FFA arrive at a measure of net financial investment
which is the difference between transactions in financial assets
and liabilities (for example, net purchases of securities less
net issuance of securities). The FFA also provide the link
between financial and non-financial activity in the economy
which ties estimates of saving and non-financial capital
acquisition (for example, investment in new housing) with the
underlying financial transactions.  Definitions concerning financial indicators can be found in
Financial indicators from the National Balance Sheet Accounts
( http://www.statcan.gc.ca/bsolc/olc-cel/olc-cel?catno=13-605 -
X201200411730&amp;lang=eng) .  For a more detailed description of the 2012 Historical
Revision, consult Revisions analysis - National Balance Sheet
Account 2012 ( http://www.statcan.gc.ca/bsolc/olc-cel/olc -
cel?catno=13-605-X201200411729&amp;lang=eng) .  For more information, contact the information officer
( csna-info-scnc@statcan.gc.ca ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  