-- Car Bomb Kills U.S. Soldier as Panetta Visits Afghanistan
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m   a n d   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a
-- 2012-12-13T18:11:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/car-bomb-attack-staged-after-panetta-s-kandahar-visit.html
Insurgents carried out a car-bomb
attack near the Kandahar airfield today that killed a U.S.
soldier after Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  visited the Afghan
base.  Panetta told reporters in Kabul that one American soldier
was killed and three were wounded. A bomber driving a car packed
with heavy explosives “targeted a NATO convoy” in southern
Kandahar province, killing an international soldier and three
Afghan civilians and wounding 14 people, Jawid Faisal, a
spokesman for the province, said in a phone interview.  The Taliban carried out the attack to send a message after
learning Panetta was visiting the airfield to boost the morale
of allied forces, Qari Yousef Ahmadi, a spokesman for the group,
said in an e-mailed statement.  While Panetta wasn’t the target,
the group showed that his soldiers are “always in danger,”he
said.  Pentagon spokesman  George Little  said he had no information
to suggest the attack was associated with Panetta’s visit to
Afghanistan.  Panetta visited Kandahar today to meet with commanders of
International Security Assistance Force’s Regional Command South
for about four hours. The attack took place after Panetta and
his delegation left Kandahar at about 2:45 p.m. local time for
Kabul, where the defense secretary met with President  Hamid Karzai .  Panetta said Karzai accepted an invitation from President
 Barack Obama  to visit Washington the week of Jan. 7. Panetta and
Karzai discussed the future of U.S. and allied forces in the
country after the planned withdrawal of most American troops by
the end of 2014.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in  Washington  at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net ;
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  