-- Carbon Falls Before EU Meeting on Supply Fix, Registry Rules
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-12-13T08:19:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/carbon-falls-before-eu-meeting-on-supply-fix-registry-rules.html
European Union carbon permits
declined to a three-day low before a meeting of government
officials was due to discuss a stopgap measure to cut oversupply
of allowances and the bloc’s emissions registry rules.  Permits for this month lost 3.1 percent to 6.54 euros
($8.55) a metric ton on the ICE Futures Europe exchange as of
7:53 a.m. in  London . The contract extended its loss to 74
percent since the start of the current five-year trading period
in 2008 as an excess of allowances swelled amid an economic
crisis.  Representatives of EU governments in the Climate Change
Committee are meeting today in Brussels to present their
nations’ positions on a draft measure to delay sales of 900
million allowances to curb the glut of permits and help prices
rebound. They are not scheduled to hold a formal vote on the
proposal by the European Commission at the gathering.  The meeting will be “very important,”  Germany ’s
Environment Minister  Peter Altmaier  said on his Twitter Inc.
account late yesterday. When a formal vote is held next year the
measure will need 255 out of 345 votes to pass in a ballot
system that favors larger countries.  EU nations will also discuss “main features” of a
revision to the bloc’s carbon registry regulation. The
commission, the EU’s regulatory arm, has been seeking to limit
use of some United Nations credits, known as Emission Reduction
Units, in a draft amendment to the regulation.  While the commission won’t table any formal ban at the
gathering, it will provide today an update summarizing the
debate and next steps, according to a statement published on the
EU website yesterday.  UN Certified Emission Reduction credits, which are
generated under a different program than ERUs, fell to a record
yesterday, with the December contract closing 6.5 percent down
at 43 euro cents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  