-- Centamin Has Biggest Drop on Egyptian Fuel Dispute: London Mover
-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l   a n d   N a d i n e   M a r r o u s h i
-- 2012-12-13T13:58:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/centamin-has-biggest-drop-on-egyptian-fuel-dispute-london-mover.html
Centamin Plc (CEY) , a gold producer in
 Egypt , fell the most on record in  London  trading after halting
production as a diesel dispute cut supplies to “critical
levels.”  Centamin plunged as much as 64 percent, the steepest
decline since it first sold shares in 2001, to 19 pence, and was
at 30.91 pence at 1:40 p.m. Centamin said today it was sent an
“illegal retrospective claim” by Egyptian General Petroleum
Corp., or EGPC, for $65 million for diesel and won’t receive
fuel for its Sukari mine until the amount is paid.  “Due to a resultant lack of diesel and a shortfall in
working capital in Egypt for the local operations the decision
has been taken to suspend operations at Sukari and to place the
mine on care and maintenance until these issues are
satisfactorily resolved,” Centamin said in a statement.  The gold producer has been dogged by operational and
political delays in Egypt since last year’s uprising that led to
the ousting of former President  Hosni Mubarak . Centamin dropped
as much as 59 percent on Oct. 30 after Egypt’s administrative
court issued a preliminary ruling to annul its 18-year-old
concession agreement with the government. Joint venture partner,
the state-owned Egyptian Mineral Resources Authority, said it
would appeal the decision.  “There seems to be some political aspect to EGPC’s
decision,” said Yousef Hussein, research associate at Cairo-
based investment bank  Egyptian Financial Group-Hermes Holding. (HRHO) 
“I don’t think it’s a liquidity issue. If it was, they would
have done it across the board with other companies.”  ‘Arbitrary Request’  EGPC Chairman Hani Dahi didn’t respond to calls and a text
message requesting comment.  The process of Centamin restarting gold exports has also
been delayed by an “unforseen and arbitrary” request from
customs officials for prior approval by the Finance Minister,
the company said. “This approval has been urgently sought, but
has not yet been forthcoming,” it said in its statement.  Centamin temporarily halted mining in both March and July
because of labor unrest related to a pay dispute.  The latest suspension, “coupled with the ongoing legal
claim and political shenanigans on a national level, make
Centamin a hot potato,” Numis Securities Ltd. said in a note to
investors today. “In our view, one to avoid for now.”  The slump extends  the stock ’s drop to 62 percent this year,
after it tumbled 53 percent in 2011 as Egyptian political
instability deterred investors, and supply interruptions and
curbs on blasting at Sukari led Centamin to cut initial
production targets.  Centamin targets annual gold output of 250,000 ounces at
its Sukari mine. The company, which produced 177,415 ounces in
the first nine months of 2012, didn’t say how the latest halt
would effect its full-year target.  Capital Drilling Ltd. (CAPD) , which provides drilling rigs to
Centamin, fell as much as 42 percent to 15.5 pence, the most
since it first sold shares in 2010, and traded at 15.875 pence
at 1:46 p.m. in London.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net ;
Nadine Marroushi in Cairo at 
 nmarroushi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  