-- CFTC Needs 6-Month Delay in Overseas Rules, Chilton Says
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-12-13T15:48:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/cftc-needs-6-month-delay-in-overseas-rules-chilton-says.html
The main U.S. derivatives regulator
came under pressure to limit the cross-border impact of new
swaps rules and delay them for six months from overseas
regulators as well as Democratic and Republican members of the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  The Washington-based agency should provide relief from
compliance with Dodd-Frank Act rules while U.S. and overseas
regulators discuss how to limit oversight gaps,  Bart Chilton ,
one of three Democrats at the CFTC, and Jill E. Sommers, one of
two Republicans, told a House Agriculture Committee hearing on
the scope of the rules.  “This would give markets and participants time to comply
with the new regulatory environment and also would provide
assurance to global markets and regulators that we are not
causing unnecessary market disruptions,” Chilton said. The
relief should free non-U.S. dealers from having to register with
the CFTC for six months when trading with U.S. dealers, he said.  The international reach of the CFTC’s swap rules has been
one of the most controversial elements of the agency’s Dodd-
Frank rules and has prompted opposition from financial firms
including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
 Barclays Plc. (BARC)  The CFTC has also faced criticism from European
and Asian regulators for the reach of a rule requiring trades to
be guaranteed at clearinghouses and traded on exchanges or other
platforms.  Clarification Needed  The CFTC needs to “clarify and limit the scope of cross-
border applicability,” Samara Cohen, a Goldman Sachs managing
director, said in testimony submitted to a House Financial
Services subcommittee hearing yesterday.  Patrick Pearson, head of the market infrastructure unit at
the European Commission, said the CFTC’s proposed approach to
cross-border oversight will harm the market. “This will create
conflicts and undue burdens for market participants,” he said
at today’s hearing. Without an agreement between countries,
“conflicts, inconsistencies and gaps will persist, and we
believe that trades will not take place, will not be able to be
cleared, and will, at best, be reported in a fragmented manner
to repositories.”  Sommers said the CFTC needs to provide the industry more
time to facilitate a transition to Dodd-Frank swap regulations
that should have a narrower scope. “It should not be enough
that a swap transaction involves a U.S. counterparty,” she said
at the hearing. “The connection with the U.S. needs to be
direct and significant.”  Protecting Taxpayers  CFTC Chairman Gary Gensler said yesterday that the cross-
border reach of some rules is intended to protect taxpayers from
overseas risks returning to U.S. markets. “We are committed to
working through any instances where the CFTC is made aware of a
conflict between U.S. law and that of another jurisdiction,”
Gensler said.  During a six-month delay, Chilton said the CFTC should have
a narrow, territorial definition of trades with U.S. clients
while cross-border negotiations continue. U.S. and foreign
dealers should have relief from compliance with conduct
standards with clients, he said, and non-U.S. dealers shouldn’t
need to register when they’re trading with U.S. dealers during
the phase-in process.  “These seem to be common-sense measures that can be taken
which would ease the transition to compliance, and reduce
incentives for regulatory arbitrage, or race to the thinnest
rulebook,” Chilton said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  