-- Chavez Suffered Complications During Cancer Surgery
-- B y   N a t h a n   C r o o k s   a n d   J o s e   O r o z c o
-- 2012-12-14T00:43:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/chavez-suffered-complications-during-cancer-surgery.html
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez
suffered “complications” due to bleeding while undergoing a
six-hour cancer surgery in Cuba Dec. 11, Vice President Nicolas
Maduro said today.  Maduro, speaking on state television, said surgeons took
corrective measures in time to control the bleeding. He said the
president will require a “delicate and prolonged process of
post-operation recovery.”  “In the last few hours, the process of recovery has
evolved from stable to favorable,” Maduro said around 6 p.m.
local time, eliciting cheers from the crowd at a rally in Aragua
state for gubernatorial candidate Tarek El Aissami. “This leads
to maintaining the diagnosis of a progressive recovery in
Comandante Hugo Chavez’s situation.”  At the news from Maduro, Chavez supporters chanted “And he
will live and he will live, the comandante will live!”  Chavez underwent his fourth surgery in 18 months for an
undisclosed form of cancer, after telling Venezuelans they
should vote for Maduro in case he’s forced to step down after 14
years in power.  Additional Treatments  “The patient is in the process of a progressive and
favorable recovery of normal levels of his vital signs,”
Information Minister Ernesto Villegas said earlier today in a
nationally televised address, adding that additional treatments
will be needed to fully restore the self-declared socialist
leader’s health.  Maduro and Villegas didn’t provide further details on
Chavez’s condition or the complications he experienced during
surgery.  Internal scarring from multiple surgeries can make tumor
extraction difficult and thus lead to bleeding, Ramon Baeza, an
oncologist with the IRAM cancer clinic in Santiago,  Chile , said
in a phone interview. Chemotherapy and radiation therapy can
alter blood flow, Baeza said.  After multiple surgeries, patients may experience protein
deficiency, which can lead to problems with scarring and a
depressed immune response, Baeza said. Chavez’s medical team has
to be on guard for infections, a primary cause of death among
cancer patients, he said.  “Whatever they did must have been necessary, but it’s
risky, complicated and the likelihood of success is very low,”
said Baeza. “The future looks bad. How much time President
Chavez survives depends obviously on the quality of the
palliative care he receives now.”  Health, Succession  Chavez, 58, may not be well again in time to be sworn in
for a third term on Jan. 10, Villegas said yesterday. Adan
Chavez, the president’s brother and governor of Barinas state,
said yesterday he would recover and return to  Venezuela  soon.  Under Venezuelan law, if Chavez steps down before his new
term begins on Jan. 10, Maduro would see out the rest of the
current term and then hand over power to the National Assembly
president who must call for election within 30 days.  If Chavez assumes power for a new term Jan. 10 and steps
down within the first four years of that period, the vice
president takes over while elections are arranged within a
month.  2013, Markets  Chavez first told Venezuelans he had cancer in June 2011
after undergoing surgery in Cuba to drain an abscess from his
pelvic area during which he said doctors discovered a baseball-
sized tumor in the same area.  The tumor was excised in a subsequent operation, Chavez
said, without specifying the exact location or type of cancer.  Venezuela’s opposition alliance would probably choose
Henrique Capriles Radonski as its presidential candidate should
elections be called soon, provided he wins re-election as
governor of Miranda state Dec. 16, Ultimas Noticias reported,
citing opposition officials.  The government’s benchmark 2027 dollar bond fell 1.11 cents
to 101.42 cents on the dollar today at 6 p.m.  New York  time,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The bond’s yield rose
14 basis points, or 0.14 percentage point, to 9.07 percent.  Venezuelan dollar bonds have returned 48.66 percent in
2012, the second-biggest return in  emerging markets  after the
Ivory Coast, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global
index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net ;
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  