-- Chilean Peso Weakens as Copper Declines on U.S. Budget Impasse
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-12-13T16:57:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/chilean-peso-weakens-as-copper-declines-on-u-s-budget-impasse.html
Chile’s peso dropped from an eight-
week high as copper fell after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  expressed concern about the struggle in the U.S. to
resolve differences over reducing government deficits.  The peso declined 0.2 percent to 475.10 per dollar at the
close in Santiago, from 474.34 yesterday, the strongest level
since Oct. 18. Copper for March delivery plunged as much as 1.7
percent to $3.653 a pound in  New York .  “There is uncertainty, confusion and concern in the
market,” said Cristian Donoso, a currency trader at Banchile
Corredores de Bolsa in Santiago. “With copper falling so fast,
we should have had more depreciation, but the Chilean peso has
reasons to strengthen.”  The Chilean central bank will leave its target lending rate
at 5 percent for an 11th straight month today, according to all
of the 24 economists in a  Bloomberg survey.   Chile has the highest borrowing costs among major rate-
setting nations in  Latin America  behind  Brazil , which has cut
its benchmark lending rate from 12.5 percent last year to a
record low 7.25 percent.  The peso followed copper lower as U.S. House Speaker  John
Boehner  and President  Barack Obama  struggled to reach a deal to
avoid automatic tax increases and spending cuts due to go into
effect in January. Bernanke warned yesterday after the central
bank announced $45 billion of additional monthly bond buying
that the stimulus can’t offset the effect of the so-called
fiscal cliff.  Copper is Chile’s biggest export, and the U.S. is the
second-biggest consumer of the metal.  International investors’ $6.5 billion bet against the peso
in the forwards market on Dec. 11 was the lowest since May 4,
according to data published today by the central bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  