-- Chile Keeps 5% Key Rate as Prices Ease Amid Surging Growth
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-12-13T21:19:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/chile-keeps-5-key-rate-as-inflation-eases-amid-surging-growth.html
Chile ’s central bank kept its
benchmark interest rate on hold today for the 11th straight
monthly meeting as surging economic growth and easing inflation
left little room for a change in monetary policy.  The monetary policy board, led by bank President Rodrigo Vergara, held the key interest rate at 5 percent, as forecast by
all 24 analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg . Policy makers last
changed borrowing costs in January with a quarter-point
reduction that surprised economists.  Chile boasts the slowest inflation of any major Latin
America economy tracked by Bloomberg and one of the region’s
fastest economic growth rates. Policy makers will keep  interest
rates  unchanged as they weigh whether economic gains will put
pressure on prices, Hugo Osorio, a strategic investment analyst
at brokerage Cruz del Sur, said by phone from Santiago.  “There’s space for rates to remain stable all next year if
inflation effectively remains under control,” he said before
today’s decision. “But we don’t think that will be the case. We
think inflation will accelerate.”  Changes in monetary policy will depend on the impact of
economic conditions on inflationary perspectives, the central
bank said in a statement accompanying today’s decision.  Swap Rates  One-year swap rates, which reflect traders’ views of
borrowing costs, has increased 15 basis points, or 0.15
percentage point, to 5.17 percent since Nov. 13 when policy
makers last met. That implies borrowing costs will increase to
5.25 percent within the year.  Inflation fell to 2.1 percent last month from 2.9 percent
in October, surprising all 12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg who
forecast rates ranging from 2.3 percent to 2.7 percent.
Inflation eased in November on a decline in utility and clothing
prices, according to the National Statistics Institute.  Still, consumer prices pose a risk after economic growth
exceeded central bank forecasts in the third quarter, policy
makers said in the minutes of last month’s meeting.  Inflation will accelerate in 12 months to 2.9 percent while
remaining below the central bank target of 3 percent, according
to the median estimate of 59 traders polled by the central bank
on Dec. 11. Inflation will hit the central bank target two years
from now, according to the survey.  ‘Relevant Risks’  “Recent data suggests that the probability of observing
very low annual inflation for a prolonged period of time had
fallen,” one policy maker said last month, according to the
minutes. “The inflationary panorama continued to present
relevant risks in the medium term, taking into account the fact
that the economy had been growing above its trend.”  Gross domestic product rose 5.7 percent in the third
quarter from last year, beating estimates made by analysts on a
13 percent surge in investment and 6.4 percent gain in private
consumption. The economy measured by the central bank’s Imacec
index that serves as a proxy for GDP surged 6.7 percent in
October, the fastest pace this year.  “Activity and internal demand data evolved above
expectations in the third quarter,” the central bank said
today. “The labor market remains tight.”  Manufacturing increased 9.1 percent in October from the
year earlier, compared with the 3 percent median estimate of 15
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Wages climbed 3.3 percent over
the same period, while the jobless rate fell to 6.6 percent in
the three months through October from 7.2 percent the year
earlier.  GDP will expand 5.5 percent in 2012 and 4.8 percent next
year, beating the Latin American average by at least one
percentage point in both occasions, the United Nations economic
commission for the region said in forecasts published Dec. 11.  “Inflation is likely to accelerate next year as growth
returns to an above-potential pace,” analysts at BNP Paribas
including Florencia Vazquez wrote in a Dec. 10 note e-mailed to
investors. “This is likely to trigger a gradual tightening
cycle in 2013. We expect the policy rate to remain unchanged
near term.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 