-- Samsung Leads Asia Technology Shares Higher on Earnings Outlook
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m   a n d   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 2012-12-13T09:04:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/chimei-leads-panel-gains-on-rising-sales-reports-taipei-mover.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , whose
market value surpassed $200 billion last week, led Asia
technology shares higher as it surged to a record on stronger
earnings outlook.  The world’s largest maker of smartphones and TVs rallied
2.9 percent to 1,533,000 won in Seoul trading. LIG Investment &
Securities Co. and IBK Securities Co. yesterday raised their
share-price estimate, citing stronger earnings outlook for 2013.  Expectations for the company’s solid smartphone business
contributed to the share-price gain, Korea Exchange Inc. said
today.  Chimei Innolux Corp. (3481)  and AU Optronics Corp.,  Taiwan ’s two
largest panel makers, jumped by the 6.9 percent daily limit. The
 MSCI Emerging Markets Information Technology Index (M1EF0IT)   advanced 1.5
percent.  “Foreigners heavily snatched up Samsung shares,” Lee Sun- Tae, an analyst at NH Investment & Securities Co. in  Seoul , said
by phone today. “The main reason behind this seems to be the
company’s brighter fourth-quarter earnings outlook, largely
helped by its handset business. Samsung is doing well both in
the high-end and lower-end sectors.”  The flat-panel market probably will improve next year
because of higher TV demand in  China , Jeff Kim, an analyst at
Hyundai Securities Co. in Seoul, said in an e-mailed comment
today. China will allocate 26.5 billion  yuan  ($4.2 billion) in
subsidies to promote use of energy-saving household appliances
and products, according to a statement posted May 16 on the
government’s website.  Chimei, AUO  Chimei Innolux, a supplier to Apple Inc. and Sony Corp.,
jumped 6.9 percent to NT$15.55, the highest since March 9, in
Taipei trading after the Economic Daily News said the company
plans to boost sales by 10 percent next year.  AU Optronics (2409) 
climbed 6.9 percent to NT$13.95, the highest since May 4.  Chimei Innolux Chairman Tuan Hsing-Chien set the company’s
sales target to hit NT$550 billion ($18.9 billion) next year,
the Economic Daily  reported  today, citing people it didn’t name.
The company planned to make a profit of between NT$30 billion
and NT$50 billion next year, according to the Chinese-language
daily newspaper.  Lin Chen-hui, a spokesman for Chimei Innolux, wasn’t
immediately available to comment.  “Chimei will probably swing to profit in the fourth
quarter, and there may be even a lack of supply next year,”
said Peter Liao, an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. in Taipei.
He has a  buy  rating for Chimei Innolux and AU Optronics.  “We are very optimistic about the company as it continues
to cut costs, as well.”  Chimei Innolux,  which also supplies   Dell Inc. (DELL) , said in
October that demand for panels used in TVs, tablet computers and
mobile phones will increase next year. The company had reported
nine consecutive quarters of losses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  