-- China Considers Easing Rule on RQFII Investment in Bonds
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2012-12-14T09:10:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/china-considers-relaxing-rule-on-rqfii-investment-in-bonds-chan.html
China  may relax or abolish a rule
that requires  Renminbi  Qualified Foreign Institutional Investors
to keep most of their funds in bonds, according to the Hong Kong
Monetary Authority, a move that may boost demand for stocks.  Shares of Chinese brokerages traded on the mainland surged
today on speculation the new rules will increase stockbroking
income, with GF Securities Co. and Sealand Securities Co. rising
by the 10 percent daily limit. The first batch of yuan QFII
funds, approved in December 2011 with a 20 billion-yuan quota,
are required to invest at least 80 percent of their assets in
bonds, with the rest going into equities or kept as cash.  China Securities Regulatory Commission Chairman  Guo Shuqing 
has cut trading fees, pushed companies to increase dividends and
allowed  trust companies  to buy equities since taking over a year
ago, in an effort to shore up China’s stock market. The
benchmark Shanghai Composite Index is headed for its third
straight year of declines.  “Our delegates would like to see some flexibility in this
split so that investors will have more choices,”  Norman Chan ,
chief executive of Hong Kong’s de facto central bank, told
reporters in Beijing yesterday after meeting Guo. “We’d like to
abolish or relax this proportion requirement. Chairman Guo has
expressed that he agrees and supports our suggestions.”  The Shanghai Composite has lost 2.2 percent this year,
while the MSCI China Index of mostly Hong Kong-traded shares,
open to overseas investors, has gained 17 percent as U.S. bond
purchases spurred foreign funds to pour money into  emerging
markets .  ‘Losing Confidence’  “The relaxation will be positive for China’s stock market
as mainland investors are losing confidence and are reluctant to
buy stocks now,” Francis Lun, Hong-Kong based managing director
at Lyncean Securities Ltd, said by telephone today. “Foreign
entities still account for only a couple of percent of the
Chinese  capital market .”  Shares of  Citic Securities Co. (600030) , China’s largest brokerage
by market value rose 4.8 percent to close at HK$16.74 in Hong
Kong trading today. Haitong Securities Co. advanced 6.8 percent
to HK$11.38.  China may also expand the RQFII program, which now is open
only to Hong Kong units of Chinese financial companies, to
include institutions based in the city, Chan said. Guo supports
opening the program to all types of Hong Kong-based financial
institutions, Chan said.  Competition Intensifies  Hong Kong’s biggest banks have been lobbying China to relax
restrictions on  yuan  businesses in the city as competition from
London, Singapore and  Taiwan  intensifies. The city remains the
largest offshore yuan center, with deposits in the currency
climbing more than 27-fold in five years to a record 627.3
billion yuan ($101 billion) in November 2011, monetary authority
data showed.  “Guo has showed that he agrees and supports the
relaxation” of investment rules, Chan said. “This is Chairman
Guo’s view and it still needs to be studied by other government
offices. They are discussing the issue and hopefully there will
be results soon.”  In April, China announced a second, 50 billion-yuan RQFII
quota specifically for the creation of exchange-traded funds
that invest in the domestic A-share stock market. The CSRC, in
its April announcement, didn’t impose any regulations on how
much had to be invested in bonds for this second quota.  China’s securities regulator will be “flexible” about
expanding the RQFII program, Chan said. China has agreed in
principle to increase the total 70 billion-yuan quota by 200
billion yuan, Guo said last month.  While the yuan is freely convertible for trade, investors
from  Hong Kong  or from overseas may buy stocks or bonds in China
only with quotas assigned by the government, and direct
investments need regulatory approval.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  