-- Consumer Comfort Stagnates as U.S. Lawmakers Debate Budget
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-12-13T14:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/consumer-comfort-stagnates-as-u-s-lawmakers-debate-budget.html
Consumer confidence  in the U.S.
stagnated last week, showing a lack of improvement since October
as lawmakers continue to search for common ground on taxes and
government spending in 2013.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index slipped to minus 34.5
in the period ended Dec. 9, the lowest level in six weeks, from
minus 33.8. The reading was the 12th straight above minus 40,
the level associated with recessions and their aftermath. The
decrease was within the margin of error of 3 percentage points.  Appreciating property values and cheaper gasoline have
given consumers reason to be upbeat as the year draws to a
close. At the same time, limited wage gains associated with a
7.7 percent  jobless rate  will probably do little to help
households should lawmakers fail to avert a broad-based increase
in taxes in 2013.  “Households are likely coming around to estimating the
risk associated with a decline in after-tax income that would
result due to the fiscal shock,” said  Joseph Brusuelas , senior
economist at Bloomberg LP in New York. “The risk to the
economic outlook is that the recent improvement in consumer
sentiment will see retrenchment, similar to what was observed
during the debt-ceiling debate in summer 2011, that will offset
the stabilization in the housing market and falling gasoline.”  Other reports today showed jobless claims fell last week to
the lowest level since early October, while  retail sales 
rebounded in November. A 0.3 percent gain in purchases reflected
more demand for autos, electronics and clothes after a 0.3
percent drop in October, according to Commerce Department data.  Jobless Claims  First-time  claims  for unemployment benefits dropped by
29,000 to 343,000 in the week ended Dec. 8, the fewest since a
four-year low in the period ended Oct. 6, the Labor Department
said.  Stocks fluctuated, after the longest gain in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index since August. The S&P 500 rose less than 0.1
percent to 1,428.92 at 9:35 a.m. in New York.  Two of the three components of the index decreased last
week. The comfort index’s buying climate gauge dropped to minus
36.2 from minus 33.4 the previous week. The barometer measuring
Americans’ views on the  state of the economy  fell to minus 62.6,
the lowest in six weeks, from minus 61.5 in the prior period.  The  personal finances  gauge rose to minus 4.6 from minus
6.6 the prior week.  The overall index was 15.4 points better than it was during
the same period last year. In 2012, the gauge has averaged minus
38.5 and is on pace for its best annual showing in five years.  Growth Improvements  “Recent economic indicators have been mixed, suggesting
reasons for the current course of consumer views,” Gary Langer,
president of Langer Research Associates, which compiles the
index for Bloomberg, said in a statement. Improvements in
growth, “housing and gas prices have been tempered by less-
positive data on manufacturing and consumer spending. There’s
the open question of the possible impact of uncertainty caused
by the fiscal-cliff negotiations.”  Home prices rose 4.4 percent in the 12 months through
September after a 4.5 percent gain in August that was the
largest in six years, according to adjusted data from the
 Federal Housing Finance Agency . A gallon of regular gasoline
cost $3.30 yesterday, the cheapest since January, figures from
the American Automobile Association show.  The economy is also still creating jobs. Employers boosted
payrolls by 146,000 workers in November, the most since August,
according to data from the Labor Department.  To spur the economy and hiring, the Federal Reserve
yesterday said it will buy $45 billion a month of Treasury
securities starting in January, expanding its asset-purchase
program.  FOMC Statement  “The committee remains concerned that, without sufficient
policy accommodation, economic growth might not be strong enough
to generate sustained improvement in labor-market conditions,”
the Fed’s Open Market Committee said after its final meeting of
the year yesterday in  Washington .  The Fed said interest rates will stay low “at least as
long” as the unemployment rate remains above 6.5 percent and if
inflation “between one and two years ahead” is projected to be
no more than 2.5 percent.  A potential burden for consumers is higher tax rates next
year. If Congress doesn’t change the policies currently in
place, more than $600 billion in tax increases and spending cuts
will start taking effect Jan. 1. Senate Majority Leader Harry
Reid said yesterday he was “very, very disappointed” with the
lack of progress on the issue.  Other Data  Limited progress on budget talks may be weighing on other
measures of sentiment. The Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan confidence index  slumped  to a four-month low in
December from a five-year high in November. The decrease was the
biggest in more than a year.  Today’s figures showed confidence among those earning
$50,000 or more slumped by the most since July, falling to minus
15 from minus 9.2. Sentiment among Americans 65 or older fell by
the most since mid-August. Midwesterners and college graduates
were the most pessimistic since early October.  While confidence numbers have been holding up so far, the
shift in focus to the possible changes in fiscal policy are a
concern, Sandy Cochran, chief executive officer of  Cracker
Barrel Old Country Store Inc. (CBRL) , said during a Nov. 29 earnings
call.  Disposable Income  “For our guests, the issue will be about their confidence
in their job and that’s probably the first and foremost, and
then disposable income,” she said.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index, compiled by Langer
Research Associates in New York, conducts telephone surveys with
a random sample of 1,000 consumers 18 and older. Each week, 250
respondents are asked for their views on the economy, personal
finances and buying climate; the percentage of negative
responses is subtracted from the share of positive views and
divided by three. The most recent reading is based on the
average of responses over the previous four weeks.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative. The
margin of error for the headline reading is 3 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  