-- Cottage Industry for Patent Suits Closed by Appeals Court
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-12-13T17:41:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/cottage-industry-for-patent-suits-closed-by-appeals-court.html
A U.S. appeals court that once
acknowledged it was creating a new cottage industry in patent
litigation shut down that market today.  Manufacturers won’t have to face lawsuits filed before
September 2011 for posting expired patents on their products,
the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit in Washington
ruled, in a decision  posted  on its website.  The court said Congress acted within its authority last
year by enacting a law limiting those kinds of lawsuits and
making the change retroactive, so that it applied to all pending
litigation.  About a thousand lawsuits were filed against companies that
had posted expired or irrelevant patents on their packaging
after a 2009 Federal Circuit ruling created the potential for
huge damage awards. The court said companies could be penalized
as much as $500 for every item marked with a false patent
number.  One case against plastic tableware maker Solo Cup Co. could
have resulted in a $5.4 trillion fine -- enough to pay a third
of the U.S.  national debt .  “The legislative history suggests that Congress was
particularly concerned with the perceived abuses and
inefficiencies stemming from false marking claims that were
initiated,” Judge Sharon Prost wrote for the three-judge panel.  Kenneth Brooks, a  California  lawyer, filed suit against
music-equipment maker  Dunlop Manufacturing Inc.  in September
2010, claiming that a winder used in replacing guitar strings
was marked with a patent that had been invalidated and expired.  Brooks argued that Congress, in limiting the lawsuits,
overstepped its authority by eliminating cases that were already
under way. Pending cases, he said, should be allowed to proceed.  Misleading Claims  The cases were brought under a statute that let anyone file
lawsuits on the theory that the general public had been harmed
by misleading information. Under the law, damage awards were
split 50-50 with the government. The  Justice Department 
collected $7.56 million in damages from false marking suits in
 2011  and $3.4 million in  2010 , according to records on the
agency’s website.  It was little used before the Federal Circuit’s 2009 ruling
raised the prospects for astronomical damages. The court, which
specializes in  patent law , said at the time it could be creating
a “cottage industry of false marking litigation.”  Elimination of the false-marking provision was part of an
overhaul of the U.S. patent system signed by President  Barack Obama  on Sept. 16, 2011. Other parts of the law provide the U.S.
Patent and Trademark Office with more control over its finances
and made fundamental changes in how patent applications are
processed and reviewed.  The case is Brooks v. Dunlop Manufacturing Inc., 12-1164,
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit (Washington). The
lower court case is Brooks v. Dunlop Manufacturing Inc.,
10-4341, U.S. District Court for the Northern District of
California ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in  Washington  at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  