-- Crow Says Canada Shouldn’t Widen BoC’s Oversight Powers
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-12-13T19:27:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/crow-says-canada-shouldn-t-widen-boc-s-oversight-powers.html
The  Bank of Canada  shouldn’t be
given broader powers to protect financial stability because that
may weaken its current mandate, former Bank of Canada Governor
John Crow said.  “The Bank is well off being an important adviser and
protecting its integrity over monetary policy,” Crow, who led
the Ottawa-based bank from 1987 to 1994, said in a telephone
interview today after publishing a  paper  for the C.D. Howe
Institute of Toronto, a non-partisan research group.  The central bank already contributes to stability with
advice to government and its main mandate of setting  interest
rates  to meet a 2 percent  inflation  target, Crow said. New
powers shared with regulators such as Finance Minister  Jim
Flaherty  or Julie Dickson of the Office of the Superintendent of
Financial Institutions could make responsibilities unclear,
which “would not be helpful,” he said.  Current Governor  Mark Carney  takes over the top job at the
 Bank of England  next year, as that institution is poised to add
broad powers over financial stability and bank regulation. The
U.K. financial system has been damaged by bank bailouts and
allegations that benchmark London interbank offered rates were
manipulated, while Canada’s banking system has been ranked the
world’s soundest by the World Economic Forum for five straight
years.  The success of Canada’s regulations boosts the case for
avoiding major changes at its central bank, Crow said.  “We do have a kind of regulatory framework that seems to
have, to date, delivered,” he said.  The U.K. Financial Services Authority “lost its way,”
Crow said. “I don’t think you can say that OSFI lost its way.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  