-- CSX Sued Over Toxic Chemical Spill From N.J. Derailment
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-12-13T21:23:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/csx-sued-over-toxic-chemical-spill-from-n-j-derailment.html
CSX Corp. (CSX) , the biggest railroad in
the eastern U.S., and Conrail Inc. were sued by more than 50 New
Jersey residents who were exposed to toxic chemicals after a
train derailed last month.  The residents of Paulsboro, near Philadelphia, were exposed
to vinyl chloride monomer, a human carcinogen, after a railroad
bridge collapsed over Mantua Creek and derailed a CSX train,
according to the complaint filed yesterday in state court in
Philadelphia. Conrail owned and operated the bridge, according
to the filing.  Four tank cars filled with VCM plunged into the creek on
Nov. 30, spilling more than 100,000 pounds of the chemical. The
surrounding neighborhood was evacuated and more than 60 people
required treatment at a local hospital, Mark Cuker, an attorney
for the residents, said in the court filing.  Acute exposure to vinyl chloride affects the central
nervous system, causing dizziness, drowsiness and lung and
kidney irritation, according to the complaint.  The plaintiffs accuse Jacksonville, Florida-based CSX and
Philadelphia-based Conrail of negligence for failing to properly
maintain the bridge and allowing a train carrying hazardous
chemicals to cross, even though a red signal indicated it wasn’t
properly aligned.  ‘Trouble Tickets’  The companies failed to take proper action on complaints
about the bridge, including at least 23 “trouble tickets”
reporting malfunctions this year, according to the complaint.
The residents are seeking medical monitoring and unspecified
damages.  “We will review legal filings but don’t have comment at
this time,” Gary Sease, a CSX spokesman, said in an e-mail. CSX
filed a notice of removal transferring the case to federal court
in Philadelphia, according to documents filed today.  Michael Hotra, a spokesman for Conrail, said the company
would respond to the complaint “at an appropriate time and in
an appropriate place.”  “Our focus today remains on providing assistance to
individuals in the community and working through unified command
to manage this incident,” Hotra said in a phone interview.  The U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s National
Incident Management System is coordinating the response to the
derailment with members of the unified command, including the
Coast Guard, Conrail and the New Jersey Office of Emergency
Management, according to a website set up by the group.  The case is Swindell-Filiaggi v. Conrail, 121201490, Court
of Common Pleas of Philadelphia County (Philadelphia). The
federal case number is 12-cv-06962, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of  Pennsylvania  (Philadelphia).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  