-- Defeated Republican Preaches Heresy Backing a Carbon Tax
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-12-13T16:31:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/defeated-republican-preaches-heresy-backing-a-carbon-tax.html
On a soggy evening in Tallahassee,
 Florida , Bob Inglis stood before three dozen college Republicans
and urged them to support what he calls his “greatest heresy”
as a congressman: a tax on  carbon emissions .  Inglis blames his efforts to combat global warming for the
intra-Republican challenge that cost him his South Carolina
congressional seat in 2010. Since the loss, he has traveled the
nation making the case to students and grassroots Republican
activists that a carbon tax is both  good policy  and politics.  “This really is a conservative position,” Inglis told the
classroom of students at  Florida State University  last month.
“An energy and climate answer might not just unite the
Republican Party, but it also allows us to get some independents
and progressives to support us as well.”  Inglis advocates a specific answer: a carbon tax, which
would apply to the carbon-dioxide emissions from coal, oil or
natural gas. He says the revenues should be used to offset cuts
in other taxes. A tax would let the market develop the best way
to cut emissions, and replace regulation by the Environmental
Protection Agency and costly energy subsidies, he said.  “I don’t want  Al Gore  to run my life,” he said, as his
right eyebrow shot skyward over rimless glasses and a lopsided
smile indicated he was joking. While he said he respects the
former vice president, he opposes what he dubs “big
government” regulations and subsidies that environmentalists
such as Gore say are necessary.  Tough Sell  Those kind of knowing lines are matched with references to
natural law, scripture passages and market economics. Together
they establish his conservative bona fides. Still, his
proposition is no easy sell to his fellow Republicans.  All but eight Republicans in the  House of Representatives 
voted against a measure aimed at cutting greenhouse gas
emissions in 2009; the so-called cap-and-trade measure never
came up for a vote in the Senate. Inglis, who was among those
 voting  no, proposed a counteroffer of a carbon tax with a
starting price of $15 a ton. It drew just two co-sponsors in the
House. One was a Democrat.  That vote did have an impact on his career. Because of
Inglis’ “heresies” on  climate change , immigration and the bank
bailout of 2008, he drew four challengers in a Republican
primary in 2010. And he was defeated by Trey Gowdy in a run-off.
Once elected, Gowdy signed a  pledge  to oppose a “climate tax.”
That may not preclude the kind of tax swap Inglis is proposing.  ‘Worst Commercial’  “The problem, in a way, is that I’m the worst commercial
for what I am talking about,” Inglis, a 53-year-old lawyer,
said in an interview, citing that 2010 primary upset.  After he left Congress, the Republican House majority
worked to undermine measures to deal with climate change in the
past two years, cutting federal funding to study it and
criticizing the EPA’s rules to curb  greenhouse gases . Republican
presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  mocked President  Barack Obama 
at his party convention this year for pledging to halt the rise
of the oceans, which is tied to global warming.  “It’s not going anywhere,” Texas Republican  Joe Barton ,
the former chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee,
said, when asked about Inglis and the carbon tax. “We agree
that carbon-dioxide levels are going up. What we don’t agree on
is that carbon-dioxide levels are going up because of man.”  Outside analysts say Republican voters may be more open to
Inglis’s proposal than his former colleagues in Congress.  George Mason  “Many Republicans are much more moderate in their views,”
Edward Maibach, director of the Center for Climate Change
Communication at  Virginia ’s  George Mason  University, said in an
interview. “Depending on the trade-off, you see more or less
support” for a carbon tax, he said.  Carbon-dioxide emissions since the Industrial Revolution
have led to a  warming  of the Earth’s temperature over the past
50 years, threatening to cause extreme weather, drought and
coastal flooding, according to the  U.S. Global Change Research
Program .  October was the 332nd consecutive month in which global
temperatures exceeded the 20th century  average , according to
U.S. government data.  The majority of voters in different regions, old or young,
rich or poor, accept the scientific consensus that man-made
activity is warming the planet, according to a Bloomberg
National Poll in September. Those voters most skeptical were
affiliated with the  Republican Party , as only 26 percent agreed
that warming is happening because of human activity.  ‘Significant Differences’  “Party affiliation is the single most important way to
expect divergences” in views about climate change and policies
to address it, said Barry Rabe, who conducted polling on these
issues for the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy at the
 University of Michigan . “You still see significant differences
between Republicans and Democrats on these issues.”  With the support of groups such as the Rockefeller Family
foundation, Inglis established the  Energy and Enterprise
Initiative  at Virginia’s  George Mason University  in July. At the
moment Inglis has one aide, 27-year-old policy maven,
photographer, youth envoy and straight man Alex Bozmoski.  Schools Tour  The two have been traveling this year to conservative
colleges, Federalist Society clubs at law schools and the
American Legion’s  Boys State  program, which teaches high-school
students about the way government works. The reception hasn’t
always been warm.  Former Republican House Speaker Dennis Hastert shared the
stage with Inglis at Wheaton College in  Illinois , a self-
described Christian school.  “If we want to hobble an economy, all we need to do is
enact these kind of policies,” Hastert said. “I don’t trust
Congress -- and I was there -- or any other legislative body to
say that we are going to tax your energy, and take it away from
your income tax,” Hastert said.  Inglis dubs this the “Trojan Horse” critique, and it’s
one he hears often from the conservatives he meets. Republicans
don’t expect a new tax on carbon to be refunded, and instead
expect it will be used to finance  government spending  they deem
wasteful.  Siberian Sunshine  There are other critiques.  In Tallahassee, the Florida state capital, he debated
economics professor Randall Holcombe, who said government
policy, whether tax or regulation, is not the way to tackle the
issue. “If climate change makes Florida less habitable, well,
people are mobile,” he said. “They can move up to Siberia and
bask in the sunshine.”  Among some religious conservatives, trying to avert global
warming is seen as man intervening in the providence of God.
It’s also an attack on a suburban and rural lifestyle embodied
by many Republican voters. “This is a deeper attack on a way of
life,” Inglis said.  Inglis treads lightly in talking with these audiences, in
part because he knows where they are coming from. In the first
of his two tenures in Congress, Inglis said he mocked the threat
of global warming. Two visits with scientists in Antarctica and
pressure from his son got him to change when he ran in 2004 to
reclaim his old seat in the House.  Extra Tax  The carbon tax is Inglis’ stab at coming up with a
Republican approach to handling the issue. In effect, producers
of coal, gas and other fossil fuels would pay a tax based on an
estimate of the amount of carbon dioxide emitted when the fuel
is used. Therefore, coal would become more expensive than wind
power. Natural gas would be somewhere between the two.  By raising the prices for coal and gasoline, it would
induce consumers to search out energy-efficient or clean-energy
alternatives, proponents say. The government doesn’t need to
mandate which fuels are used or force changes at  power plants  or
in automobiles.  It’s not a message Inglis expects to gain support during
the current U.S. budget negotiations. It might take shape next
year, or perhaps in 2015 or 2016 as fears about the federal
deficit mount, he predicts. In the meantime, he will be making
his case to any Republican audience that will have him.  “Once you’re branded a heretic you might as well go out on
the street and proclaim it,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  