-- Deutsche Bank Hired Law Firm for Bank’s Portfolio Probe
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e   a n d   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2012-12-13T15:24:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/deutsche-bank-hired-law-firm-for-bank-s-portfolio-probe.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  hired law firm
Fried Frank Harris Shriver & Jacobson LLP in March 2010 to
conduct an internal probe days after a trader alleged the bank
had misrepresented the value of derivatives to mask paper losses
during the financial crisis.  The law firm found no wrongdoing, Deutsche Bank Chief
Financial Officer  Stefan Krause  told analysts and investors on a
conference call today. While Fried Frank found limitations to
the bank’s model, no adjustments to valuations were needed and
the company switched to a new model in early 2010, Krause said.  Questions about how Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank valued
the assets resurfaced last week when a former quantitative risk
analyst at the bank, Eric Ben-Artzi, said the lender hid losses,
helping it avoid state aid at the height of the financial
crisis. Deutsche Bank rejected the allegations, which related to
a portfolio of collateralized insurance agreements that
protected against the risk of corporate defaults.  “The bank’s response was immediate, appropriate and
thorough,” Krause, 50, said on the call. “The bank has
cooperated fully with the SEC and the  Federal Reserve  Bank of
New York, which was appraised of the allegations.”  Meeting Witnesses  The lawyers from Fried Frank met with dozens of witnesses
and spent several days with the trader for the credit
correlation desk, as well as auditors, and reviewed millions of
documents, Krause said. Deutsche Bank reported the allegations
to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in June of 2010,
he said.  Deutsche Bank made several presentations to the SEC and
Federal Reserve and submitted millions of pages of documents,
the CFO said.  The investigation revealed that the former employees who
alleged wrongdoing had no personal knowledge of or
responsibility for “key facts and information,” according to
the bank.  Deutsche Bank  fell  to a two-week low in Frankfurt trading
today after it said fourth-quarter profit will be
“significantly” reduced as it winds down riskier assets and
faces higher reorganization costs.  The shares slid as much as 3.2 percent in Frankfurt trading
to the lowest intraday price since Nov. 28. The stock was down
1.4 percent at 33.79 euros as of 4:22 p.m. local time.  Reducing Value  Deutsche Bank firm reduced the notional value of its
correlation book to 60 billion euros ($78.4 billion) at the end
of September from 200 billion euros at the end of 2009,
according to slides published today. The portfolio
“substantially rolls off within three years,” the company said
in the presentation.  “To date, no material losses have been recorded on any LSS
trades,” Krause said, referring to the securities known as
leveraged super senior credit derivatives.  The SEC and German financial-market regulator BaFin both
declined to comment on the investigation when contacted by
 Bloomberg News  last week.  The issues raised by the former employees were subject of
“extensive discussion” among business and control groups
within the bank prior to any allegations, according to Krause’s
presentation. The internal review concluded that external
auditors were aware of and comfortable with the bank’s treatment
of the valuation issues, according to the presentation.  “Bank personnel evaluated all available information and
tools and employed their best judgment for the fair value of
this trading book during unprecedented market conditions,” the
bank said in the slides.  Ben-Artzi Suit  When Ben-Artzi, the former risk analyst at the bank, first
made his allegations in March 2011, the bank passed them to the
SEC the same month, said two people familiar with the matter who
asked to remain anonymous.  Krause didn’t refer specifically to Ben-Artzi. He said an
employee in market risk who made similar allegations to those of
the trader met with senior executives at the bank to explain his
concerns and was provided contact details for the SEC lawyer
handling the investigation. This analyst turned down an
opportunity to present a different valuation methodology, the
CFO said.  Fried Frank debriefed the employee in market risk and
incorporated his allegations into its investigation, which has
since concluded, said Krause.  Wrongful Dismissal  Ben-Artzi, who joined the bank in 2010, is suing Deutsche
Bank for wrongful dismissal after he lost his job in 2011,
according to a  statement  last week from Labaton Sucharow LLP,
his New York-based law firm. Steven Bodakowski, a spokesman for
the law firm, didn’t immediately respond to a request for
comment.  Ben-Artzi alleges that from 2007 to 2010 Deutsche Bank
misrepresented the value of a portfolio with a notional value of
as much as $130 billion, Labaton Sucharow said last week.  Deutsche Bank may have lost $12 billion from the insurance
agreement credit derivatives had they been valued properly, the
Financial Times reported Dec. 5. It cited estimates derived from
comments by three former employees who testified to the SEC,
including Ben-Artzi.  “This model has certain known limitations which were
exacerbated as the market deteriorated during the economic
crisis,” Krause said today. “While the bank developed and
tested alternative models that would overcome the model’s
limitation, the financial impact of these limitations was
addressed through the taking of reserves.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  