-- Deutsche Bank Sees ‘Significant’ Profit Reduction on Costs
-- B y   A n n e t t e   W e i s b a c h   a n d   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2012-12-13T15:16:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/deutsche-bank-cost-changes-to-significantly-hit-fourth-quarter.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Europe ’s largest
bank by assets, said fourth-quarter profit will be
“significantly” reduced as it offloads riskier assets and
faces higher restructuring costs.  The costs will include valuation adjustments and charges
related to global transaction banking in the Netherlands, the
lender said in a statement to the Frankfurt stock exchange
today. Deutsche Bank was expected to post net income of 509.8
million euros ($670 million) in the period, according to the
 average estimate  of four analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  “We currently expect these specific items to have a
significant negative impact on the bank’s earnings in the fourth
quarter,” it said. The period “was characterized by a
continued difficult macroeconomic environment.”  Deutsche Bank dropped as much as 3.2 percent on the
benchmark  Stoxx 600 Banks (SX7P)  index. It declined 1.8 percent to
33.65 euros at 3:49 p.m., paring gains this year to 14 percent.  “This is a guarded profit warning,”  Lutz Roehmeyer , who
helps oversee about 10 billion euros of assets including
Deutsche Bank shares at Landesbank Berlin Investment, said by
telephone from Berlin. “Until now, Deutsche Bank followed a
policy of reducing leverage as little as possible. This has
changed now.”  Bigger Losses  The bank is taking bigger losses from de-risking, Chief
Financial Officer  Stefan Krause  said on a conference call with
analysts.  Deutsche Bank said it is also assessing impairments and
provision levels for the full year. The company reaffirmed 2013
goals for raising capital requirements when stricter Basel III
rules are scheduled to be implemented.  “We have effects coming out of resegmentation, effects
coming out of goodwill impairment and other effects,” Krause
said, referring to their potential impact on earnings. “There
will be quite a large amount of things to consider. That could
be substantial in nature.”  European lenders are offloading riskier assets and reducing
leverage as the recession in Europe persists and they seek to
meet new  capital requirements  under Basel III.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net ;
Annette Weisbach in Frankfurt at 
 aweisbach1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  