-- Deutsche Bank’s Legal Woes Deepen as Overhaul Hits Profit
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t   a n d   A n n e t t e   W e i s b a c h
-- 2012-12-14T14:51:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/deutsche-bank-s-legal-woes-deepen-as-reorganization-hits-profit.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ’s announcement
yesterday that earnings will suffer this quarter added to a
cacophony of negative news over the past two weeks that’s
increasing pressure on the company’s new leadership.  Two days ago, police raided Deutsche Bank’s Frankfurt
headquarters, arresting five employees, in a tax probe involving
the sale of carbon-emission certificates that includes co-Chief
Executive Officer  Juergen Fitschen  and Chief Financial Officer
 Stefan Krause , who signed tax returns. Today, the bank was found
partly liable by a Munich court for the collapse of a German
media group.  Fitschen and Anshu Jain, his co-CEO, are grappling with
escalating regulatory probes and litigation stretching from the
alleged rigging of interbank lending rates to claims the bank
misrepresented products tied to U.S. mortgages. Resulting fines
could cut into the company’s capital levels, the lowest of
 Europe ’s four biggest investment banks.  “Deutsche Bank’s employees, right down to the doormen,
must feel like a storm has descended on the company like a
typhoon,” said Klaus Fleischer, a professor of banking and
finance at the University of Applied Sciences in Munich. “It
will be tough to repair the damage, even though Deutsche Bank
has done a lot to bring about cultural change in the industry.”  Deutsche Bank said yesterday it expects earnings will be
“significantly” reduced in the fourth quarter by losses from
offloading riskier assets and higher restructuring costs.  Shares Underperform  The bank fell as much as 3.7 percent in Frankfurt, heading
for the biggest decline in five weeks. It dropped 2.4 percent to
32.54 euros at 3:25 p.m., trimming an advance this year to 11
percent, half the 22 percent gain for the 28-member  Euro Stoxx
Banks Index. (SX7E)   Fitschen said he “asked questions” before submitting the
tax returns in 2010 that included data on the C02 certificates.
The difference between that statement and a corrected version in
2011 was about 150 million euros, he said, German newspaper
Handelsblatt reported.  “I feel unfairly treated,” Fitschen said in the interview
published today, referring to the allegations and the police
raid on Deutsche Bank’s HQ. “In my opinion, the prosecutor’s
approach was excessive. I also feel that the allegations against
me will hinder me from implementing what I plan to do.”  Fitschen, 64, and Jain, 49, took over as co-chiefs from
 Josef Ackermann , 64 six months ago.  Paper Losses  Last week, Eric Ben-Artzi, a former risk analyst, accused
the bank’s managers of hiding billions of dollars in paper
losses on a portfolio of collateralized insurance agreements
between 2007 and 2010. Deutsche Bank denied the allegation,
saying its probe of the matter showed no wrongdoing. The U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission declined to comment on the
investigation.  The world’s largest banks have become the subject of probes
from Japan to  Canada  as regulators intensify scrutiny of the
industry. This week,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , the U.K.’s biggest bank,
agreed to pay $1.92 billion to settle U.S. probes of  money
laundering  in the largest such deal on record.  Standard
Chartered Plc (STAN)  agreed Dec. 10 to pay $327 million of fines after
regulators alleged it violated U.S. sanctions with  Iran .  “There are quite a lot of banks around Europe and the
world with a hangover from legacy issues from what happened in
the crisis,” said  Simon Adamson , a debt analyst with
CreditSights Ltd. in London. “The fallout from the crisis will
be an ongoing risk for investors. It’s going to be difficult for
a while to know what the consequences are going to be for banks
like Deutsche Bank.”  Police Raid  Tax inspectors carrying computer equipment and files
entered elevators at Deutsche Bank’s headquarters in central
Frankfurt on Dec. 12 after a swoop by hundreds of police.  The five arrested employees appeared in a city court
yesterday, accused of obstruction of justice and money
laundering in a probe of unpaid sales taxes on the CO2
certificates. Four remain behind bars and 20 more are under
investigation. Deutsche Bank says it took account of a potential
fine by not claiming back about 310 million euros ($410 million)
in tax refunds.  “The pressure is building on them,” said  Christopher Wheeler , an analyst with London-based  Mediobanca SpA (MB)  who
recommends clients sell Deutsche Bank shares. “All bank
management is doing is saying ‘this is terrible, but don’t
worry, it’ll blow over.’ It has in the past but they’re facing a
lot of things that haven’t gone away.”  ‘Deleting E-Mails’  One of the individuals arrested is responsible for Deutsche
Bank’s litigation department, according to two people familiar
with the matter. The central allegation against the employees is
that they deleted e-mails central to the probe, said one of the
people, who requested to remain anonymous as the matter is
private.  Deutsche Bank declined to comment on the individuals.  Raids were also conducted in Berlin and Dusseldorf, with
about 500 police and tax investigators involved, Guenter Wittig,
a spokesman for the Frankfurt General Prosecutor, said in a
statement. The authorities also entered private homes.  Prosecutors say Deutsche Bank failed to correct its 2009
tax statement quickly enough, according to the bank. The company
holds that any errors in the document regarding tax on CO2,
which Fitschen and Krause signed, were amended in a timely
manner. It “continues to fully cooperate with the
authorities,” according to a Dec. 12 statement from the lender.  Deutsche Bank estimates potential litigation losses for
which it hasn’t set aside provisions to be 2.5 billion euros at
the end of September, according on its third-quarter earnings
report. The bank doesn’t break down that figure.  Rate-Rigging  The company is also under investigation for potentially
manipulating the London interbank offered rate between 2005 and
2011, a time when Jain was head of its investment-banking arm.  Regulators from Canada to Switzerland are seeking to
discover whether more than a dozen banks colluded to rig the
rate, the benchmark for more than $300 trillion of securities,
to make profit or hide their true cost of borrowing.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  was fined 290 million pounds ($466.9 million)
in July.  UBS AG (UBSN)  may be charged more than $1 billion by U.S. and
U.K. regulators, according to a person familiar with the probe
who asked not to be identified because the matter is private.  Income Source  Banks in Europe and the U.S. may face another five years of
litigation and probes on various issues as regulators process
past misdeeds and seek to tap the firms as a source of income,
said Wheeler.  “Banks have deep pockets and things that were swept under
the carpet during the boom years are being pulled out during the
crisis as a means of extracting cash either by governments or
individuals,” he said.  Deutsche Bank’s core Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of
financial strength, stood at 10.7 percent at the end of
September, according to company filings. That’s lower than
competitors Barclays,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and UBS, data
compiled by Bloomberg Industries show.  The German bank plans to boost capital to at least 8
percent of assets weighted by risk under stricter Basel III
rules by the end of March 2013 and to more than 10 percent two
years later. Its biggest competitors will reach similar levels
months or years sooner, according to forecasts from the banks.  Even so, Deutsche Bank is the largest lender in Europe’s
biggest economy and will probably weather whatever regulatory
issues arise, Wheeler said.  “The good news is their clients don’t seem all that
bothered,” he said. “They are sitting in  Germany  with a AAA
rating behind them.”  Media Trial  Deutsche Bank is no stranger to controversies involving its
senior management, said Dieter Hein, an analyst with research
company Fairesearch GmbH in Kronberg, near Frankfurt.  “Fitschen’s two predecessors, Ackermann and Breuer, both
have been accused of breach of law,” he said. “It’s unlikely
Fitschen will leave his job due to the accusation, even though
this shows how bad the corporate governance of the bank is.”  Rolf Breuer , who made way for Ackermann in 2002, helped
prompt a wave of litigation by Germany’s Kirch family, which
owned a group of media companies, with comments he made in an
interview on Bloomberg Television that year.  Today, Judge Guido Kotschy partially ruled in favor of the
Kirch family, which says Deutsche Bank plotted to secretly bring 
about the demise of its media empire. Breuer and Deutsche Bank 
are partly liable for the statements he made 10 years ago, 
Kotschy told a hearing in Berlin. Both have denied the 
allegations.  The bank may have to pay as much as 1.5 billion euros in
financial damages to the family, the court said Nov. 16.  Ackermann is still trying to shake off an image from 2004.
He was photographed by Germany’s media flashing a victory sign
during a trial to determine whether it was unlawful for him and
five co-defendants to approve more than 57 million euros of
bonuses for executives at German mobile-phone company Mannesmann
AG during its takeover by  Vodafone Group Plc. (VOD)  It was the
nation’s first criminal probe into excessive pay.  Regulatory fines and litigation could wipe out Deutsche
Bank’s profit and slow its efforts to retain equity to meet
capital goals, said Wheeler at Mediobanca.  “There could well be more to come,” CreditSights’ Adamson
said. “We may see action on the Libor manipulation
investigation for quite a few banks and Deutsche may well be
dragged into that as well. At the moment it’s a very uncertain
situation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net ;
Annette Weisbach in Frankfurt at 
 aweisbach1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  