-- Dexus Said to Be in Talks to Sell Assets to Heitman, Korean Fund
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-12-13T03:17:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/dexus-said-to-be-in-talks-to-sell-assets-to-heitman-korean-fund.html
Dexus Property Group (DXS)  is in talks to
sell its U.S. industrial properties to Heitman LLC and  South
Korea ’s National Pension Service, according to a person briefed
on the transaction.  Heitman is negotiating with Dexus on behalf of the South
Korean fund, said the person, who asked not to be identified as
the talks are private. David Yates, a Sydney-based Dexus
spokesman, declined to comment on the deal.  Margot Olcay, a spokeswoman for Heitman at New York-based
public relations firm Rubenstein Associates Inc., declined to
comment. Hwang Jae Kwang, a spokesman for the National Pension
Service, couldn’t be reached on his mobile phone as he was
traveling overseas.  Dexus,  Australia ’s biggest owner and manager of offices,
has 27 properties in the U.S., valued at A$550 million ($580
million) as of June 30, in the states of Washington, California
and  Texas .  The company is in exclusive, non-binding negotiations with
a buyer for most of the U.S. assets, Dexus said on Nov. 29. The
company, which completed the sale of 65 industrial properties in
the U.S. for $770 million to Blackstone Group LP in June, plans
to move out of the U.S. entirely as it focuses on the Australian
business, Chief Executive Officer Darren Steinberg said in
August.  Dexus will sell some of the properties to Heitman’s
domestic fund and some to the Korean fund to be managed by
Heitman, the Australian Financial Review reported yesterday,
without citing anyone. Dexus may also sell some assets to a
third group, the newspaper said.  Heitman is a closely held Chicago-based real estate
investment management company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  