-- Draghi Faces Recruitment Drive as ECB Takes on Supervision
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2012-12-13T15:14:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/draghi-faces-recruitment-drive-as-ecb-takes-on-bank-supervision.html
European Central Bank President
Mario Draghi may need to hire hundreds of new staff after
governments handed him sweeping powers to supervise the banking
industry.  While the ECB will rely on local regulators to oversee the
majority of the euro area’s 6,000 banks with total assets of
about 33 trillion euros ($43 trillion), it will take on direct
supervision of as many as 200 larger lenders and have ultimate
responsibility for all banks. Economists said that will require
it to significantly expand its fields of expertise by adding to
its current full-time staff of around 1,600.  “It’s a very substantial undertaking,” said James Nixon,
chief European economist at Societe Generale in  London . “To
transfer that sort of oversight is going to require a lot of
people and a lot of expertise. I’ve seen figures that suggest
they’ll need to hire as many as 1,000 people.”  Draghi’s ECB, primarily responsible for ensuring price
stability, will take on the oversight duties as part of a so-
called European banking union that aims to sever the link
between government finances and domestic banking sectors. While
Draghi himself won’t chair the new supervisory board, the
central bank’s steady accrual of power during the sovereign debt
crisis has met with criticism in  Germany , where the Bundesbank
has warned of a conflict of interest and an erosion of
inflation-fighting credibility.  ‘Strictly Separated’  To avoid “potential conflicts of interest,” European
leaders  agreed  that “the ECB’s monetary tasks would be strictly
separated from supervisory tasks.” At the same time, they said
in a statement that any draft decisions made by the ECB’s
supervisory board could be rejected by the Governing Council,
which is anchored in European treaties as the supreme decision-
making body of the central bank.  “The fact that the Governing Council will be able to
outvote the supervisory board may be problematic,” said  Juergen Michels , chief euro-area economist at Citigroup in London. “I
can see some resistance coming up in connection with this,
especially from Germany.”  The ECB has until March 1, 2014, to be ready to fully
assume its duties, with the legal framework that will underpin
the new role scheduled for completion by the end of February
next year.  ‘Important Step’  Draghi today welcomed the new role and said the ECB will
meet the deadline envisaged by finance ministers.  “The agreement marks an important step towards a stable
economic and monetary union, and towards further European
integration,” he said in a statement.  Even though the ECB will sit atop a pyramid of national
regulators, the task could require as many as 1,000 new staff in
 Frankfurt ,  Kurt Pribil , co-head of  Austria ’s Finanzmarktaufsicht
regulator, said this week.  The ECB needs “relatively quickly some 700 to 1,000 staff,
which would have to have the authority on the ground,” he said.
“If the ECB had to rely only on local regulators’ staff, an
important element of the strengthening would be lost.”  The ECB hasn’t provided estimates on staffing levels yet.  “ECB resources have been discussed and will be discussed
in the coming weeks,” ECB council member Erkki Liikanen said at
a press briefing in Helsinki today. “The key question is how
division of labor will take place between the independent bank
supervisor operating within the ECB and national supervisors.
It’s clear that there needs to be a core group of supervisors,
but a considerable portion, the main portion in terms of
numbers, will be at the national supervisors.”  Which Banks?  Officials will now seek to establish exactly which banks
will come under direct ECB control.  Ministers agreed on central oversight for banks with more
than 30 billion euros ($39 billion) in assets or with balance
sheets that represent at least 20 percent of a nation’s economic
output. The guidelines include at least the top three biggest
banks of every participating nation unless “justified by
particular circumstances.”  The ECB may not need to hire a lot of new staff
immediately, said  Jacques Cailloux , chief European economist at
Nomura International Plc in London.  “The ECB will start small,” he said. “They will also
likely keep the pace of hiring highly linked to the evolution of
the discussion around the perimeter of banks falling under their
remit.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  