-- DynCorp Settlement With Army Corps Faces Added Inquiry
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-12-13T21:05:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/dyncorp-settlement-with-army-corps-faces-probe-from-ig.html
The inspector general for
 Afghanistan  is investigating a contract settlement between the
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and DynCorp International Inc.,
citing “questionable actions” by personnel involved in the
negotiations.  John Sopko, the special inspector general for Afghanistan
reconstruction, informed Lieutenant General Thomas Bostick, the
Army Corps’ commander, of his inquiry in a  letter  today. Sopko
didn’t specify whether the actions he questioned involved
government personnel, company officials or both. The office is
an independent agency created by Congress to oversee U.S.
spending in Afghanistan.  Sopko said in an October  report  that the Army Corps freed
DynCorp, one of the largest U.S. contractors in Afghanistan, of
responsibility for construction at an Afghan Army garrison while
long-standing deficiencies remained.  The Corps was asked to justify a settlement Sopko’s office
said involved a $73 million payment to DynCorp, which is owned
by affiliates of New York-based Cerberus Capital Management LP.  DynCorp oversaw the construction at Camp Pamir in
Afghanistan’s Kunduz province. The project was part of a U.S.
effort to train and house the Afghan Army, which is growing this
year to 195,000 personnel.  Corps official James Balocki said in a Dec. 4 memo to
Sopko’s office that the agency has begun its own review of the
settlement.  Site Conditions  “We acknowledge the nature of the settlement raises a
number of concerns which involve highly technical factors
pertaining to site conditions and related geotechnical issues,”
as well as contract requirements, he said. “Our findings to
date are incomplete, however, we continue to examine the
facts.”  At this time the Corps “does not have sufficient
information to determine whether the settlement was fair and
reasonable,” he said.  Corps spokesman Eugene Pawlik didn’t immediately return a
phone call or e-mail seeking comment.  Ashley Burke, a spokeswoman for Falls Church, Virginia-
based DynCorp, said in an e-mailed statement that the company
experienced a $26 million loss on the project after receiving
$70 million for its work.  “We have not seen the letter and therefore cannot comment
on it, but it is interesting to note that SIGAR’s report was
finalized and reached conclusions about the settlement before
any investigation was initiated,” Burke wrote, referring to the
special inspector general for Afghanistan reconstruction.  “Despite SIGAR’s suggestion in the report that the
settlement ‘appears to be on unfavorable terms to the U.S.
government,’ on the contrary, DynCorp International received
only a partial payment for its work,” Burke wrote.  DynCorp turned over responsibility for the site in 2011,
and the current occupants have been accountable for maintenance
and care of the facilities since then, Burke said in October in
response to the original report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  