-- Gasoline Slips as Stockpiles Rise and Budget Deadlock Persists
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2012-12-13T21:38:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/heating-oil-gains-with-seasonal-stockpiles-lowest-since-2000.html
Gasoline fell as U.S. supplies
climbed to an eight-month high last week and on concern that
budget talks between the White House and Congressional
Republicans are stalled, threatening the economic recovery.  Futures slipped as  inventories  rose 5 million barrels as
refiners operated at the highest seasonal rates since 2004,
Energy Department data show. House Speaker John Boehner repeated
his assertion that President  Barack Obama ’s budget proposal is
“anything but” balanced and accused the president of being
“not serious” about cutting spending.  “The market is still concerned about Congress and the
president going back and forth,” said  Andy Lipow , president of
Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston. “Refinery utilization is
at a nearly record level.”  Gasoline for January delivery fell 4.44 cents, or 1.7
percent, to settle at $2.6021 a gallon on the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange.  Obama, a Democrat, is scheduled to meet today at 5 p.m.
Washington time with Boehner, the top Republican in the GOP-
controlled-controlled House to negotiate averting the so-called
fiscal cliff of automatic tax increases and budget cuts set for
January. Both sides have said it’s unlikely a deal could get
done before the Dec. 25 Christmas holiday.  Today’s decline is the first in five days. Futures rose
yesterday after the Federal Reserve’s Federal Open Market
Committee announced additional stimulus for the economy. The Fed
will buy $45 billion a month of Treasury securities starting in
January.  Stimulus Bullish  “The stimulus is really bullish,” said Phil Flynn, senior
market analyst at Price Futures Group in  Chicago . “The reason
why the market isn’t euphoric over the stimulus is the fiscal
cliff and the market is relatively well-supplied.”  Gasoline stockpiles have risen 8.3 percent in three weeks,
increasing 16.7 million barrels.  Distillate inventories , including heating oil and diesel,
rose 2.99 million barrels to 118.1 million last week. Stockpiles
are at the lowest seasonal level since 2000.  “Distillate levels are still at the lower end of the range
for this time of the year but gasoline inventories are
improving,” Lipow said.  Heating oil for January delivery fell 2.31 cents, or 0.8
percent, to settle at $2.9437 a gallon a gallon on the exchange.  The average nationwide cost for  regular gasoline  fell 1.4
cents to a $3.301 a gallon, AAA said today on its website.
That’s the lowest level since Jan. 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  