-- ECB Monthly Bulletin Editorial for December (Text)
-- B y   K r i s t i a n   S i e d e n b u r g
-- 2012-12-13T09:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/ecb-monthly-bulletin-editorial-for-december-text-.html
The following is the text
of the European Central Bank’s December monthly bulletin:  Based on its regular economic and monetary analyses, the
Governing Council decided at its meeting on 6 December to keep
the key ECB interest rates unchanged. Owing to high energy
prices and increases in indirect taxes in some euro area
countries, HICP inflation rates have been elevated for some time.
More recently they have declined, as anticipated, and are
expected to fall below 2% in 2013. Over the policy-relevant
horizon, inflation rates should remain in line with  price
stability . The underlying pace of monetary expansion continues
to be subdued. Inflation expectations for the euro area remain
firmly anchored in line with the Governing Council’s aim of
maintaining inflation rates below, but close to, 2% over the
medium term. The economic weakness in the euro area is expected
to extend into next year. In particular, necessary balance sheet
adjustments in financial and non-financial sectors and
persistent uncertainty will continue to weigh on economic
activity. Later in 2013 economic activity should gradually
recover, as global demand strengthens and the ECB’s
accommodative monetary policy stance and significantly improved
financial market confidence work their way through to the
economy. In order to sustain confidence, it is essential for
governments to reduce further both fiscal and structural
imbalances and to proceed with financial sector restructuring.  The Governing Council also decided to continue conducting the
Eurosystem’s main refinancing operations (MROs) as fixed rate
tender procedures with full allotment for as long as necessary,
and at least until the end of the sixth maintenance period of
2013 on 9 July 2013. This procedure will also remain in use for
the Eurosystem’s special-term refinancing operations with a
maturity of one maintenance period, which will continue to be
conducted for as long as needed, and at least until the end of
the second quarter of 2013. The fixed rate in these special-term
refinancing operations will be the same as the MRO rate
prevailing at the time. The rates in the three-month longer-term
refinancing operations, to be allotted until June 2013, will be
fixed at the average rate of the MROs over the life of the
respective longer-term refinancing operation.  ﻿As regards the economic analysis, following a contraction of
0.2%, quarter on quarter, in the second quarter of 2012, euro
area real GDP declined by 0.1% in the third quarter. Available
statistics and survey indicators continue to signal further
weakness in activity in the last quarter of the year, although
more recently some indicators have stabilised at low levels and
financial market confidence has improved further. Over the
shorter term, weak activity is expected to extend into next year,
reflecting the adverse impact on domestic expenditure of weak
consumer and investor sentiment and subdued foreign demand. A
gradual recovery should start later in 2013 as the ECB’s
accommodative monetary policy stance and significant improvement
in financial market confidence work their way through to private
domestic expenditure, and a strengthening of foreign demand
should support export growth.  This assessment is reflected in the December 2012 Eurosystem
staff macroeconomic projections for the euro area, which foresee
annual real GDP growth in a range between -0.6% and -0.4% for
2012, between -0.9% and 0.3% for 2013 and between 0.2% and 2.2%
for 2014. Compared with the September 2012 ECB staff
macroeconomic projections, the ranges for 2012 and 2013 have
been revised downwards.  The Governing Council continues to see downside risks to the
economic outlook for the euro area. These are mainly related to
uncertainties about the resolution of sovereign debt and
governance issues in the euro area, geopolitical issues and
fiscal policy decisions in the  United States  possibly dampening
sentiment for longer than currently assumed and delaying further
the recovery of private investment, employment and consumption.  According to Eurostat’s flash estimate, euro area annual HICP
inflation fell to 2.2% in November 2012, down from 2.5% in
October and from 2.6% in the two previous months. On the basis
of current futures prices for oil, inflation rates are expected
to decline further to below 2% next year. Over the policy-
relevant horizon, in an environment of weak economic activity in
the euro area and well-anchored long-term inflation expectations,
underlying price pressures should remain moderate.  ﻿This assessment is also reflected in the December 2012
Eurosystem staff macroeconomic projections for the euro area,
which foresee annual HICP inflation of 2.5% for 2012, between
1.1% and 2.1% for 2013 and between 0.6% and 2.2% for 2014.
Compared with the September 2012 ECB staff macroeconomic
projections, the projection range for 2013 has been revised
downwards. In the Governing Council’s assessment, risks to the
outlook for price developments are seen as broadly balanced,
with downside risks stemming from weaker economic activity and
upside risks relating to higher administered prices and indirect
taxes, as well as higher  oil prices .  Turning to the monetary analysis, the underlying pace of
monetary expansion continues to be subdued, taking into account
developments over several months. Most recently, the annual
growth rate of M3 increased to 3.9% in October, from 2.6% in
September, while M1 growth accelerated to 6.4% from 5.0% over
the same period. These developments are partly due to a specific
transaction leading to an increase in overnight deposits
belonging to the non-monetary financial sector. At the same time,
deposits from households and non-financial corporations also
rose in October. Overall, more observations are needed to
distinguish between shorter-term volatility and more lasting
factors.  Unlike in the case of monetary developments, there has been
little change in credit growth. The annual growth rate of loans
to the private sector (adjusted for loan sales and
securitisation) remained at -0.4% in October, unchanged from
September. But this development reflects further net redemptions
in loans to non-financial corporations, which led to an annual
rate of decline in these loans of -1.5%, down from -1.2% in
September. The annual growth in MFI lending to households
remained unchanged at 0.8% in October. To a large extent,
subdued loan dynamics reflect the weak outlook for GDP,
heightened  risk aversion  and the ongoing adjustment in the
balance sheets of households and enterprises, all of which weigh
on credit demand. Furthermore, in a number of euro area
countries, capital constraints, risk perception and the
segmentation of financial markets restrict credit supply.  ﻿In order to ensure an adequate transmission of monetary policy
to the financing conditions in euro area countries, it is
essential to continue strengthening the resilience of banks
where needed. The soundness of banks’ balance sheets will be a
key factor in facilitating both an appropriate provision of
credit to the economy and the normalisation of all funding
channels. Decisive steps for establishing an integrated
financial framework will help to accomplish this objective. A
Single Supervisory Mechanism (SSM) is one of the main building
blocks. It is a crucial move towards re-integrating the banking
system.  To sum up, the economic analysis indicates that price
developments should remain in line with price stability over the
medium term. A cross-check with the signals from the monetary
analysis confirms this picture.  Further economic policy measures and progress in the reform of
European governance should help to support financial  market
sentiment  and improve the outlook for economic growth. In this
context, the Governing Council looks forward to the roadmap
towards genuine Economic and Monetary Union to be decided at the
European Council meeting on 13-14 December 2012. Initiatives to
accelerate structural reforms that help restore competitiveness
are particularly important to revive the growth potential of
euro area countries and to increase employment. More generally,
all euro area countries must ensure that their product and
labour markets possess the adjustment capacity required for
their smooth and effective functioning within a monetary union.
Finally, continued fiscal consolidation is expected to restore
sound fiscal positions, in line with the commitments under the
Stability and Growth Pact and the 2012 European Semester
recommendations. Significant progress has already been made in
reducing domestic and external imbalances and in improving
competitiveness. Continued policy actions on the European,
structural and fiscal reform fronts should be mutually
reinforcing and send a strong signal to markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristian Siedenburg in Vienna at 
 ksiedenburg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  