-- ECB Oversight May Come Too Late for Slovenia’s Banks, Jansa Says
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-12-13T18:24:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/ecb-oversight-may-come-too-late-for-slovenia-s-banks-jansa-says.html
A move to make the European Central
Bank chief supervisor of euro-area lenders, paving the way for
direct bailouts from the currency bloc’s firewall fund, may come
too late to help Slovenia, Prime Minister  Janez Jansa  said.  Jansa is pushing an economic overhaul, including the
recapitalization of the country’s biggest banks, that’s in doubt
because of a trade union’s referendum call. European Union
Finance Ministers are concerned that the political stalemate
will block the bailout plan, Finance Minister Janez Sustersic
said on Dec. 7.  The new supervisor should be ready by March 1, 2014, with
about 200 banks automatically qualifying for direct ECB
oversight. In the interim, the 500 billion-euro ($654 billion)
European Stability Mechanism could aid banks directly using its
own procedures and asking ECB supervisors to step in, EU finance
chiefs agreed in Brussels earlier today.  “This supervision is good news if we consider the
situation at Slovenian banks, even though it will take some time
to become operational,” Jansa told reporters in the Belgian
capital today. “ I hope we will soon see an unblocking of the
legislation to recapitalize Slovenian banks. If not, the time
that will take for this EU mechanism to become operational could
be fatal for Slovenia.”  Referendums threaten key legislation in Slovenia, including
the bank recapitalization plan and the creation of a wealth
fund. Mired in its second slump in three years, the country is
struggling to avoid an international bailout amid government
austerity measures to overhaul the economy.  Jansa also faces a referendum on the budget for the next
two years. The administration has asked the  Constitutional Court 
to address the legality of the vote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  