-- Egyptian Rivals Step Up Campaigns on Draft Constitution
-- B y   N a d i n e   M a r r o u s h i
-- 2012-12-14T17:24:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/egypt-rivals-step-up-constitution-campaigns-before-referendum.html
Egypt’s Islamists and secular
activists held their last rallies before a constitutional
referendum that may decide what kind of state emerges to replace
 Hosni Mubarak ’s autocracy.  Supporters of President Mohamed Mursi from the Muslim
Brotherhood gathered outside the Rabia al-Adawaiya mosque in
eastern Cairo after Friday prayers, calling for the approval of
the constitution. The Brotherhood says that will stabilize the
country and pave the way for economic recovery. The opposition,
which held meetings in Tahrir Square and outside Mursi’s palace,
says the text was drawn up by Islamists and won’t protect
minorities or free expression.  In Alexandria, clashes broke out between the rival camps
after a preacher called on worshipers to vote “yes.” Hundreds
of people on each side hurled rocks at each other and opposition
supporters set light to cars they said belonged to members of
the Brotherhood’s political wing. At least 19 people were hurt,
and three Islamists were arrested after being caught with swords
and Molotov cocktails, state-run Ahram Gate said, citing
emergency and security services.  Cairo, Alexandria and eight other governorates will vote
tomorrow, and the rest of the country a week later. The
referendum follows a wave of protests against Mursi’s efforts to
expand his own powers and push the charter through. The past
week’s rallies have been peaceful, though violence broke out
between the two camps the week before, leaving at least 10 dead
and showing how divided  Egypt  remains almost two years after
Mubarak’s fall.  IMF Delay  The unrest has disrupted the government’s economic plans.
Egypt has asked the International Monetary Fund to postpone
approval of a $4.8 billion loan, scheduled for next week, until
at least January. Mursi suspended IMF-backed tax increases this
week, aimed at trimming the region’s biggest budget deficit, on
concern they would exacerbate public anger.  The Egyptian pound, whose value is steered by the central
bank, this week posted its biggest four-day drop since Mubarak’s
ouster. It pared losses today, adding 0.1 percent to 6.1684 per
dollar. The bank has spent almost 60 percent of its  foreign
reserves  since the end of 2010, raising concern it may be forced
to devalue the currency in the absence of political stability
and IMF loans.  The  benchmark stock index  posted its biggest weekly gain
since the week after Mursi’s election in June, adding 6.7
percent, and bond yields fell on expectations the referendum
would be held without violence and help push forward the
political transition. The stock market is closed today.  Army Deployed  Polling stations will open at 8 a.m. tomorrow, the election
commission’s website said, without specifying a closing time.
Eligible voters who don’t cast ballots are liable to a fine of
500 pounds ($81), Al Shorouk newspaper said today. Results of
the first round of voting will be announced before the second
round, the newspaper said, citing Zaghloul al-Balshy, head of
the election commission.  The army will help ensure security, with 120,000 police and
soldiers deployed to polling stations, and 7,000 judges will
monitor the vote, Al-Ahram newspaper said. The U.S.-based Carter
Center, which oversaw other Egyptian elections in the past year,
said it won’t send monitors for this one because the rules were
set down too late.  Proposals Ignored  The National Salvation Front, the biggest opposition
coalition, called on Egyptians to vote “no” at a press
conference today. The Front has put forward a series of
proposals aimed at bridging divisions over the charter, none of
which have elicited a response, Mohamed Abul Ghar, a Front
member and head of the Egyptian Social Democratic Party, told
reporters in Cairo.  The Shura Council of Salafi Scholars, representing an
austere branch of Islam that has sometimes challenged the
Brotherhood, called on supporters to vote “yes” even though
they have criticisms of the constitution’s failure to apply
Islamic Sharia law, Ahram Gate said today.  The United Nations Working Group on discrimination against
women said today it has “deep concern” about the
constitution’s failure to specify protection from discrimination
based on gender. “Key opportunities have been missed,” said
Kamala Chandrakirana, who heads the group, in an e-mailed
statement from Geneva. “Almost no women were represented” in
the panel that drafted the charter, and “women’s perspectives
were grossly under-represented in the final draft.”  To ensure the right public mood in the run-up to the vote,
authorities yesterday banned Egypt’s 23 state-owned television
channels from broadcasting any “romantic” songs or video
clips, Ahram reported. Only “patriotic” tunes “that are worth
broadcasting” will be allowed, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadine Marroushi in Cairo at 
 nmarroushi@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  