-- Telecom CEO Says Shock New Zealand Policies Vex Investors
-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e
-- 2012-12-14T04:30:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/telecom-ceo-says-shock-new-zealand-policy-rulings-vex-investors.html
New Zealand ’s policymakers are
vexing investors with shock rulings that are causing major stock
market swings, said the new head of  Telecom Corp. of New
Zealand , the second-largest listed company.  Shares in Chorus Ltd., the nation’s biggest network
operator that split from Telecom last year, plunged last week
after the regulator said its broadband access fees should be
materially lower. While that proposal would benefit Telecom, as
the largest broadband provider, it was unexpected and created
more uncertainty for already wary investors, Chief Executive
Officer Simon Moutter said in an interview in Wellington.  “It does annoy me that we keep surprising markets in the
way we have with this decision,” said Moutter, who was CEO of
 Auckland International Airport Ltd. (AIA) , the nation’s fourth-largest
listed company, before joining Telecom in August. “It’s not
good for New Zealand.”  Moutter, 52, needs his own investors, of whom the biggest
are overseas institutions, to have faith in New Zealand as the
nation’s telecommunications industry becomes more competitive.
Telecom’s challenge is to thrive as a smaller company in a more
challenging climate, after its two biggest rivals merged amid
the rollout of a national high-speed broadband network.  The Commerce Commission, an independent government unit,
said on Dec. 3 that fees for Chorus’s wholesale broadband, paid
by  Internet providers , should be cut by almost a third. That
sent Chorus’s shares tumbling 14 percent, their biggest drop
since listing as a separate company in November last year. Prime
Minister John Key then said he wouldn’t rule out legislating if
the draft decision became final next year.  ‘Keep Surprising’  “People just completely underestimate the awareness of
global investors around the propensity of New Zealand government
policy to keep surprising, and causing large fluctuations and
market movements,” said Moutter.  Shares in Sky Network Television Ltd., New Zealand’s
largest pay-TV company, fell the most on record in May after the
Commerce Commission said it would investigate the company’s
content agreements on competition concerns. Sky is 44 percent-
owned by billionaire Rupert Murdoch’s News Corp.  The Chorus decision would have appeared to investors as
“the government interfering in the market” again, said
Moutter. While he doesn’t believe that’s the case, the
perception and management of such decisions is problematic, he
said.  Jenny Bridgen, a spokeswoman for the Commerce Commission,
declined to comment.  “The cost of capital and return investors require for
investing in regulated New Zealand companies increased after the
recent Chorus announcement,” Shane Solly, head of equities at
Auckland-based Mint Asset Management Ltd., said in an e-mail.  Vodafone Merger  Telecom’s own shares fell the most in 3 1/2 years in August
after the company said that earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization for the year to June 30, 2013,
would be flat to slightly lower, as more competition weighed on
prices. The Auckland-based company faces a tougher environment
after  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and Telstra Corp. merged their New
Zealand units in July.  Moutter, who was chief operating officer at Telecom before
leaving in 2008, is working on a comprehensive strategic plan
for the company to be released by May next year, he said.  “You’ve got to deal with your cost base,” he said.
“We’re moving to a model where over time, if you build this
stuff right, it should require a lot less interaction than it
does today with customers. Telcos are much too service-heavy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Bourke at   cbourke4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Bourke at   cbourke4@bloomberg.net  