-- Most Emerging Stocks Fall on U.S. Fiscal Cliff Deadline
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i   a n d   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2012-12-14T00:08:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/emerging-market-stocks-rise-for-seventh-day-on-monetary-stimulus.html
Most emerging-market stocks
declined, as consumer and energy companies fell amid wrangling
between U.S. lawmakers over a solution to avert more than $600
billion in spending cuts and tax increases.  Paper maker Klabin SA dropped the most since May, leading a
slump in raw-material producers in Brazil.  National Societe
Generale Bank (NSGB)  plunged 9.9 percent in Cairo after the biggest
shareholder sold its stake in the Egyptian lender for less than
market value.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  climbed 2.9 percent to a
record, boosting a gauge of developing-nation technology stocks
to its highest level since April 2000.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  was little changed at
1,042.56 in New York, with 390 stocks falling and 384 rising,
after advancing over the past six days. Commodities plunged the
most in a week and oil dropped for the first time in three days
after Republican House Speaker John Boehner said the White House
is not serious about cutting spending to prevent the cuts and
tax increases that are due to come into force at the start of
January. Data today showed U.S. retail sales climbed less than
expected in November.  “There’s a lot of concern about the fiscal cliff in the
U.S.,” Seth Freeman, chief executive officer at EM Capital
Management LLC, said by phone from San Francisco. “It’s just
classic uncertainty. Investors, no matter how experienced, are
more cautious.”  The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index  exchange-traded
fund, the ETF tracking developing-nation shares, lost 0.4
percent to $43.19 in New York. The  Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
increased 0.4 percent to 21.22.  Budget Dispute  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has advanced 14 percent
this year, compared with a 12 percent increase in the  MSCI World
Index. (MXWO)  The developing-nations measure trades at 12 times
estimated earnings, compared with the MSCI World’s multiple of
13.6, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The Fed for the first time yesterday linked the outlook for
its main interest rate to unemployment and inflation and said it
will expand its asset purchase program by buying $45 billion a
month of Treasury securities starting in January to spur the
economy.  Boehner repeated his insistence that President  Barack Obama ’s budget proposal is “anything but” balanced, and
accused the president of being “not serious” about cutting
spending. The two are meeting today at the White House for talks
on how to avoid the spending cuts and tax increases, scheduled
to start taking effect in January. Oil fell 1 percent as the
Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of commodities dropped for the
first time in three days.  Brazil, Mexico  Brazil ’s Bovespa Index dropped 0.3 percent, with Klabin
leading declines. The Mexican IPC Index declined 0.4 percent,
breaking a seven-day  winning streak , while benchmarks in
Argentina, Chile and Colombia also fell.  The Istanbul Stock Exchange National 100 (XU100)  index declined 0.6
percent, falling for the first time in five days. Russia’s Micex
slipped 0.2 percent, snapping a six-day run of gains. Benchmark
indexes in  Poland  and  Turkey  also retreated.  South Korea’s won climbed 0.2 percent to a 15-month high
and  China ’s  yuan  rose 0.3 percent, the most since October.
Romania’s leu strengthened 1 percent to its strongest level
against the euro since May 10.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries narrowed two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 269 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  Consumers Slump  The MSCI  Emerging Markets /Consumer Staples Index fell 0.6
percent, the worst performer among the 10 industry groups on the
emerging-markets gauge. Technology stocks led gains, climbing
1.4 percent.  Samsung Electronics, whose market value surpassed $200
billion for the first time last week, rose for a second day,
buoyed by a stronger earnings outlook. LIG Investment &
Securities Co. and IBK Securities Co. yesterday raised their
share-price estimates, citing improving prospects for earnings
in 2013.  “There is optimism that a global economic recovery will
boost consumer demand and that is driving technology stocks
higher,” Gopal Agrawal, chief investment officer at Mirae Asset
Global Investments ( India ) Pvt. in Mumbai, said by phone today.
“Emerging-market equities have run up quite a bit now and
investors will keenly watch the U.S. fiscal-cliff negotiations
and corporate performance in the upcoming earnings season for
more cues.”  Liquid Crystal  Emerging-market stocks in eastern  Europe , Middle East and
 Africa  could outperform developed shares in 2013, Alexander Redman and Arun Sai, analysts at  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  in
 London , said in an emailed report today. The bank recommends
increasing holdings in Russia and Hungary, while reducing
investments in Poland and South Africa.  Chimei Innolux Corp. (3481) , Taiwan’s biggest maker of liquid-
crystal displays, rallied 6.9 percent, after the Economic Daily
News reported that the company aims to increase sales by 10
percent in 2013 and as Hyundai Securities Co. said the industry
is set to recover on higher China demand.  AU Optronics Corp. (2409) ,
Taiwan’s second-largest, climbed 6.9 percent.  National Societe Generale Bank,  Egypt ’s second-biggest
publicly traded lender by assets, sank the most since March
2011.  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  sold its 77.2 percent stake to  Qatar
National Bank SAQ (QNBK)  for $1.97 billion, valuing the shares at 35.54
Egyptian pounds each according to Arqaam Capital.  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT)  jumped 4.1 percent to the highest level
since May 15 in Mumbai. Retail deliveries at Jaguar Land Rover
rose 14 percent to 29,893 units in November, the luxury carmaker
said in a statement yesterday.  Asia Gains  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland companies
listed in Hong Kong retreated 0.2 percent. The  Shanghai
Composite Index (SHCOMP)  dropped 1 percent, led by financial companies
and materials producers. South Korea’s  Kospi index  advanced 1.4
percent, the most among Asian emerging markets.  PT Adaro Energy,  Indonesia ’s biggest coal producer by
market capitilzation, led gains in the emerging markets index.
The stock surged 9.6 percent in Jakarta amid speculation coal
prices at a six-month high will bolster earnings.  PT Unilever Indonesia (UNVR) , a unit of the world’s second-largest
consumer goods company, posted its worst two-day slump in 12
years in Jakarta trading after a series of downgrades and target
price cuts by five brokerages. The stock has fallen 22 percent
in the past two days.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net ;
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  