-- Errors on U.S. Consumer Credit Reports Getting Tougher Oversight
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2012-12-13T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/errors-on-u-s-consumer-credit-reports-getting-tougher-oversight.html
Credit-report errors may be easier
for consumers to resolve under new government oversight of the
three major credit-reporting firms,  Experian Plc (EXPN) ,  Equifax Inc. (EFX) 
and  TransUnion Corp. (TRUN) , the U.S. Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau said in a report released today.  “Given our supervisory role over many of the providers and
distributors of credit-report information, we can play a
positive role in resolving accuracy issues and other risks to
consumers within the system,” bureau director Richard Cordray
said in a conference call. “And given our enforcement
authorities, we can make sure that consumer financial laws are
being followed.”  The consumer agency, created by the Dodd-Frank law of 2010,
said in the  report  that the three credit bureaus could do more
to resolve errors on consumer’s credit reports. False
information, such as debt defaults, can result in consumers
losing access to credit or facing higher interest rates. A third
of consumer disputes on credit reports deal with collections,
the report said.  Credit-reporting companies resolve an average of 15 percent
of items that consumers dispute internally, the bureau’s report
concluded. The remaining 85 percent are passed on to so-called
furnishers, which include banks, card issuers and other
companies with information on a borrower’s behavior.  “The documentation consumers mail in to support their
cases may not be getting passed on to the data furnishers for
them to properly investigate and report back to the credit
reporting agency,” Cordray said.  The CFPB adopted a rule on direct supervision of credit
bureaus in July, and officially began overseeing the companies
on Sept. 30. In October it began taking individual complaints
from consumers about credit-reporting companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Maura Reynolds
at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  