-- Eruzione Selling ‘Miracle on Ice’ Jersey for $1 Million Minimum
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-12-13T18:42:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/eruzione-selling-miracle-on-ice-jersey-for-1-million-minimum.html
Mike Eruzione is selling the jersey
and stick he used when he scored the winning goal for the 1980
U.S. Olympic ice hockey team over the  Soviet Union , with the
shirt carrying a minimum bid of $1 million.  The captain of the “Miracle on Ice” squad said he wants
to raise money to help his family. He recently became a
grandfather for the first time.  “I’m not broke,” Eruzione, 58, said in a brief telephone
interview today. “All is well.”  The sale will include the left-handed stick he used to
score the winner in the 4-3 victory over the Soviets in the
semifinals at Lake Placid,  New York , as well as jerseys he wore
in that game and the gold-medal triumph over  Finland .  Eruzione said he is auctioning the items to raise money for
his three children. He has no plans to sell the gold medal,
according to ESPN, which reported the auction plans on its
website. Eruzione’s daughter gave birth to her first child,
named Michael, last week, making him a grandfather for the first
time, ESPN reported. He also has two sons.  At the request of the auction house, Eruzione said, he’s
not doing formal media interviews until January. Heritage
Auction House in  Dallas  will conduct the sale in February, he
said.  The pieces will be sold as “historical” items and not
sports memorabilia, Eruzione said. The opening bid for the white
No. 21 jersey he wore in the game against the Soviets, dubbed
the “Miracle on Ice,” will begin at $1 million, he said.  A jersey worn by Paul Henderson when he scored the winning
goal in  Canada ’s 1972 Summit Series against the Soviet Union
sold for $1.2 million in 2010.  More Items  The auction will also include the blue jersey Eruzione wore
against Finland as well as the warm-up suit he used during the
gold medal ceremony. His hockey gloves as well as other pieces
of equipment will also be sold, ESPN reported.  Eruzione has worked at  Boston University , where he attended
college, for the past 20 years, while also making appearances as
a motivational speaker. He  charges  $25,000 for keynote speeches.  The victory by the U.S. squad made up of college players
over the Soviet Union, a team that had won the previous four
Olympic hockey gold medals and outscored the U.S. 28-7 over that
stretch, was voted Sports Illustrated magazine’s top sports
moment of the 20th century.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  