-- MetLife Can Counter Low Rates With Growth Outside U.S.
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-12-13T21:12:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/metlife-sees-2013-profit-lower-than-analysts-estimates.html
MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest U.S. life
insurer, can counter low  interest rates  by cutting expenses and
expanding in other nations, Chief Executive Officer  Steven Kandarian  said.  The insurer has also been raising prices for some
retirement products, and benefits from hedges against low
interest rates. Kandarian is seeking to exit banking to limit
oversight from the  Federal Reserve , which rejected his plan to
repurchase shares. A deal to sell deposits to General Electric
Co. won approval yesterday from the Office of the Comptroller of
the Currency.  Share buybacks can help boost the company’s return on
equity, which was 10.3 percent last year. Interest rates near
record lows have pressured income from the company’s bond
portfolio, and New York-based MetLife said today that 2013
operating earnings will be below analysts’ estimates.  “The low end of the 12 percent to 14 percent operating ROE
target for 2016 is achievable, even if rates remain at current
levels during the entire period,” Kandarian said today on a
conference call with analysts. “Earnings in  Japan  have remained
strong despite two decades of low interest rates.”  MetLife fell 2.3 percent to $32.83 at 4 p.m. in New York
trading. The shares have gained 5.3 percent this year, trailing
the  KBW Insurance Index’s (KIX)  14 percent climb.  Operating earnings from  Asia  will increase by about 8.9
percent next year, the fastest pace among MetLife’s divisions,
according to a slide presentation.  Variable Income  Variable income, which includes private equity,  hedge
funds , and some real estate may decline next year. The company
forecast a range of $800 million to $1.2 billion in 2013 as real
estate returns fall short of this year’s results. The 2012 range
is $1.1 billion to $1.3 billion.  Operating profit next year will be $4.95 to $5.35 a share,
the company forecast today. That compares with the average
 estimate  of $5.48 among 19 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  MetLife’s 2013 projection doesn’t include buybacks, because
the insurer said it can’t be sure if it will win regulators’
approval, even as it winds down its bank. The insurer has said
it plans to repurchase $8 billion of shares by 2016 to help
achieve Kandarian’s return-on-equity goal.  Asked by Sean Dargan, an analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd.,
about the long-term buyback projection, Kandarian said he lacks
“total confidence” because regulatory developments may be
outside MetLife’s control.  ‘Wait and See’  “That plan was put together a while ago,” Kandarian said.
“As things unfold here in terms of regulatory oversight, we’ll
have to wait and see.”  MetLife has been regulated by the Fed as a  bank-holding
company , stemming from its ownership of a lender. Regulators
blocked Kandarian from boosting the dividend or buying back
shares as part of a review of how the largest U.S. financial
firms would fare in a downturn.  After getting the OCC’s approval yesterday, MetLife will
work with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and Fed to
deregister as a bank holding company, the insurer said. MetLife
may still be regulated by the Fed as a non-bank systemically
important financial institution after exiting bank status,
Kandarian said earlier this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  