-- Europe’s Headway on Greece, Banks Masks Deeper Divisions
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2012-12-13T16:43:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/europe-s-headway-on-greece-banks-masks-deeper-divisions.html
European policy makers made headway
in fighting the three-year-old debt crisis, keeping  Greece ’s
lifeline intact and laying the groundwork for a bank supervisor
to prevent financial miscues.  Finance ministers declared the two-front victory hours
before a summit of European leaders that is set to expose
differences between a German-led bloc and  France  and its allies
over the long-term retooling of the  euro zone .  “We have achieved a lot,” German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , the dominant figure in the  crisis management , said on
her way into the Brussels summit. “It was a very laborious year
but it was also a year in which we made great progress.”  The decisions underscore the move away from the austerity-
driven measures that characterized European leaders’ first
attempts to counter the crisis that emerged in Greece in 2009.
Financial-market tensions have abated, thanks mainly to a pledge
by the  European Central Bank , first made in late July and yet to
be acted on, to put a floor under the bond markets of vulnerable
countries such as Spain or  Italy .  Greek bonds rallied, with the 10-year yield dropping 17
basis points to 13 percent, near the lowest since a March debt
restructuring. The euro was little changed at $1.3085 at 5:40
p.m. in Brussels.  With the summit deadline looming, finance ministers from
all 27 European Union countries opened a packed day and night of
decision-making with a 4:30 a.m. accord to make the ECB the hub
of bank supervision in the euro area.  Bank Supervision  About 200 of the 17-nation euro area’s biggest  banks  will
come under direct ECB oversight when the system becomes
operational, targeted for March 2014. Disputes are still
percolating over a further step that would give authorities the
power, and the financing, to deal with failing banks.  “There are still some thorny issues,”  Julian Callow ,
London-based chief international economist at Barclays Plc, said
today on Bloomberg Television. “What about the financing, bank
resolution, what about  deposit insurance ?”  At stake is when the 500 billion-euro European Stability
Mechanism rescue fund would get the power to recapitalize banks
directly, essentially using European money to clean up mistakes
made at the national level. ECB President  Mario Draghi  may also
need to hire hundreds of new staff to cope with the added
workload.  Direct Recaps  The bank-supervision framework could enable direct
recapitalizations as soon as 2013 if creditor countries agree.
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  called the need for
direct intervention “relatively unlikely” and said it would
require parliamentary approval in Berlin.  Disagreement on that will drag through 2013, as will the
question of how to stabilize Greece, still on financial life
support after obtaining 240 billion euros of loan pledges and
conducting history’s biggest writedown of privately held debt.  Seven hours after the bank-supervision deal, euro-area
ministers approved the payout of 49.1 billion euros of loans for
Greece through March and committed to  “additional measures”  in
case the country’s debt reduction veers off track.  The disbursement will be the first in six months,
concluding what Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  called an “odyssey” that started with two Greek elections
and concerns that popular opposition to bailout terms would
force Greece out of the euro.  Additional Measures  While another cut in Greece’s bailout-loan rates and an
increase in infrastructure funding would help fill in any
remaining gaps, the policy makers hinted that outright debt
relief -- still a taboo topic for Germany and its top-rated
creditor allies -- would be on the table as well.  “Other tools are possible and it doesn’t make any sense to
be more precise on these possible tools,” Luxembourg Prime
Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said after chairing the meeting on
the Greek package.  International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde , less constrained by European political sensitivities,
was more explicit, saying the euro governments made “assurances
to provide additional debt relief if necessary.”  The fate of Greece -- slammed by 17 consecutive quarters of
recession with unemployment at 25.4 percent -- hangs over the
next crisis-management steps and the summit debate over how the
euro zone will be governed in the next five to 10 years.  Hollande-Merkel  On the way into the meeting, Merkel and French President
 Francois Hollande  aired German-French differences over economic
management that have marked the debate ever since the first,
aborted, bid to create a common currency in the 1970s.  A half year of brainstorming over the euro’s future has
tilted ever further in  Germany ’s direction, with any thought of
the shared issuance or redemption of debt banished from a
 roadmap  to be discussed at the summit.  A less ambitious proposal for euro countries to pay into a
common fund to offset economic shocks was also too much for
Merkel, who said the emphasis should be on steps to shrink
deficits and promote competitiveness.  Hollande claimed credit for the breakthroughs on crisis
handling, saying his election in May on an anti-austerity
platform was “one of the elements that enabled us to arrive at
this result.” He sought a further loosening of spending
constraints, saying “investments in the future” shouldn’t be
counted in official deficits.  EU leaders will grapple with the euro roadmap at their
summit that began at 5 p.m. before turning to foreign-policy
issues such as  Syria  when the summit ends tomorrow.  “I don’t expect any excessively important decision from
this summit,” Juncker said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  