-- European Stocks Drop on Bernanke’s Fiscal-Cliff Warning
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o   a n d   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-12-13T17:03:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/european-stock-futures-are-little-changed.html
European stocks fell from an 18-
month high as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the
central bank’s plan to buy $45 billion a month of Treasuries
will fail to offset the effects of the fiscal cliff.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  slid 2.7 percent after Germany’s biggest
lender said fourth-quarter profit will fall short of estimates.
 Centamin Plc (CEY)  tumbled 47 percent after a fuel dispute halted
production at its gold mine in Egypt.  Volvo AB (VOLVB)  retreated 4.3
percent as  Renault SA (RNO)  sold its remaining stake in the Swedish
truckmaker to increase funding.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index lost 0.4 percent to 279.63 at
the close, its first decline this month. The equity benchmark
has still increased 14 percent in 2012, closing at the highest
level since May 2011 yesterday, as the  European (SXXP)  Central Bank
pledged to buy the bonds of nations who seek aid.  “What Bernanke said is true: the extension of the program
can’t offset the fiscal drag,” said Konstantin Giantiroglou,
head of investment advisory at Neue Aargauer Bank in Brugg,
Switzerland. “Interest rates are already very low and any
additional monetary stimulus is marginal. All the focus is still
on the ongoing negotiation between the U.S. government and the
majority leader of the House of Representatives. The sentiment
is still cautious.”  National benchmark indexes retreated in 11 of the 18
western European markets. The U.K.’s  FTSE 100 (UKX)  slid 0.3 percent
and Germany’s DAX declined 0.4 percent. France’s CAC 40
decreased 0.1 percent.  Asset Purchases  U.S. stocks initially climbed yesterday after the Fed said
it will buy  Treasury securities  every month from January to help
stimulate the economy. The rally faded as Bernanke said monetary
stimulus cannot offset the so-called fiscal cliff, the more than
$600 billion package of tax increases and spending cuts that
will come into force early next year if politicians fail to
agree on a new federal budget.  White House and congressional officials warned their staff
that they may have to spend the holidays at their desks in
Washington, as both sides publicly refused to budge from their
positions on taxes and spending. Lawmakers from the Republicans
and the Democrats expressed renewed pessimism yesterday that
they will reach a deal before the end of the year.  Banking Union  European Union finance ministers agreed to put the  European
Central Bank  in charge of all large euro-area lenders. About 200
banks will qualify for oversight by the ECB rather than national
regulators, Financial Services Commissioner  Michel Barnier  said
in Brussels today.  At a separate meeting, euro-area ministers approved a 49.1
billion-euro ($64 billion) installment of aid to Greece. The
payment forms part of the nation’s two bailouts from the EU and
the  International Monetary Fund . The leaders of the 27 member
states began a two-day summit today.  In the U.S.,  initial claims  for unemployment insurance
payments declined last week more than forecast to their lowest
level since early October.  Retail sales  rose in November.  Deutsche Bank lost 2.7 percent to 33.35 euros after saying
that increased restructuring costs will cause the bank to miss
profit forecasts this quarter. The  average of four analyst
estimates  compiled by Bloomberg had predicted net income of
509.8 million euros.  UBS AG (UBSN)  dropped 1.1 percent to 15.08 Swiss francs after a
person familiar with the matter said U.S. and U.K. regulators
may fine Switzerland’s biggest bank more than $1 billion for
trying to rig global  interest rates . The final figure may still
change, three people familiar with the investigations said.  Centamin Slumps  Centamin tumbled 47 percent to 27.7 pence, its biggest drop
since its initial public offering in 2001. The company said that
Egyptian General Petroleum Corp. will not supply it with diesel
for the Sukari gold mine until it pays a bill for $65 million.
Centamin called the claim illegal.  Volvo declined 4.3 percent to 91.85 kronor after Renault
sold its remaining stake in the Swedish truck maker for 12.8
billion kronor ($1.9 billion). The French carmaker disposed of a
6.5 percent holding, saying it would use the proceeds to reduce
debt and invest in France, Russia and China. Renault’s shares
climbed 1.5 percent to 40.22 euros.  BG Group Plc (BG/)  slipped 1.7 percent to 1,047 pence. The
company appointed Chris Finlayson to succeed  Frank Chapman , the
chief executive officer who transformed the U.K.’s former state-
owned gas driller into a global producer.  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  dropped 2.8 percent to 2,958.5 pence,
contributing the most to the Stoxx 600’s decline, after the
company said that its fostamatinib drug, an oral treatment for
rheumatoid arthritis, failed to meet one of the main objectives
in a study.  TomTom NV (TOM2) , the Dutch supplier of maps for Apple Inc.’s
iPhone 5, slid 3.2 percent to 3.93 euros. Google Inc. unveiled
its own mapping application the iPhone, iPad and other iOS
devices, making the software available for free in more than 40
countries and 29 languages.  Hochtief AG (HOT)  advanced 2.1 percent to 43.47 euros after
Germany’s biggest construction company was raised to buy from
hold at Berenberg Bank. Berenberg said it has a stronger order
book than its European peers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net ;
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  