-- Ex-Apple Chief Sculley Mentors Next Steve Jobs in Health Care
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   M a r k   M i l i a n
-- 2012-12-13T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/ex-apple-chief-sculley-mentors-next-steve-jobs-in-health-care.html
John Sculley  says he thinks he’s
found the next Steve Jobs. Several of them, in fact.  The former  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  chief executive officer is taking on
the thorny problem of reforming health care by mentoring
technology entrepreneurs. Working from his  Palm Beach , Florida
home, he’s invested almost $10 million in five startups, often
using his name to raise the companies’ profiles.  “The real heavy lifting is not done by me,” he said. “I
get a front row seat at what I think will be a revolution.”  Sculley knew little about the health-care industry until
just a few years ago. He was also new to computers in 1983 when
Jobs recruited the onetime  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  president to run Apple.  Sculley’s decade-long tenure, which included company growth
and successful products, was marred by the flop of the Newton
portable digital assistant and his role in forcing out the man
who became a business legend. In the years after his own ouster
from Apple in 1993, Sculley kept a low profile while backing
technology and telecommunications companies, as well as oddball
products like the Wine Clip, a device that clamps to a bottle
and supposedly improves the drink’s taste.  During that time, Sculley became increasingly interested in
trying to change the U.S. health-care industry. Patients should
have better access to their own health records with more freedom
to choose care options, and technology could help open those
doors, he said.  Microsoft, Google  Other prominent tech executives, who thought so as well,
were unable to create successful products.  Microsoft Corp. co-founder  Bill Gates  was a champion of the
company’s HealthVault, a repository for sensitive health records
that has failed to find an audience.  Marissa Mayer , now CEO of
Yahoo! Inc., oversaw a rival tool called Google Health when it
was introduced in 2008. Google Inc.  shut down  the service at the
beginning of this year.  Sculley’s education in the health-care industry began in
2005 when he met Sean Heyniger, the founder of heart monitor
maker PDSHeart, at the  Consumer Electronics Show  in  Las Vegas .
Heyniger had been trying to track down Sculley, then a board
member at  MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS) , to tap his connections
in the wireless industry. The pair soon began talking about
starting a new business together.  “We were playing golf one day,” Heyniger said. “I said,
‘Look, John. I’ll make a deal with you. I’ll teach you how to
become a better golfer if you teach me how to become a better
CEO.’”  Two years later, Heyniger  sold  PDSHeart to  CardioNet Inc. (BEAT) 
for $57 million. The next year he and Sculley co-founded
Watermark Medical LLC, which makes a device for diagnosing sleep
apnea.  Mentor’s Role  Heyniger, 47, introduced Sculley to other health-care
entrepreneurs. Sculley became an investor in Audax Health
Solutions, developer of a social network that encourages healthy
living and works with insurance companies, after founder Grant Verstandig, 23, agreed to let Sculley mentor him.  “I’ve never seen these insurance companies move so fast to
work with anyone before,” Sculley said. Verstandig could be
“the Steve Jobs of consumer health services,” he said.  While he acts more as a CEO coach than a day-to-day
operator, Sculley jumps into the fray when he senses an
opportunity.  Last year, after investing in  MDLiveCare , a Sunrise,
Florida-based company that connects patients with doctors via
video, he called the founder, Randy Parker. Sculley was
insistent about dropping “Care” from the company’s name, and
Parker, who was atop a ski slope in  Colorado , reluctantly
agreed. By the time Parker reached the bottom of the mountain,
he said, he’d received another call from Sculley announcing that
he had just spent $200,000 of the company’s money to buy the Web
domain MDLive.com.  Experience Mix  Sculley says his mix of experience in consumer marketing,
 information technology , and health-care policy will help him
succeed. The time is right for ventures that get people actively
involved with their health care, since under so-called Obamacare
more employers will move people to health plans with high
deductibles, according to Sculley.  “Suddenly, employees must pay attention to what health
care costs,” he said.  Sculley is upbeat about his ventures and expresses
confidence in his new protégés.  The latest addition is Sonny Vu, 39. Together, they founded
Misfit Wearables Corp. last year and developed a quarter-size
device that tracks a person’s physical activity.  With the help of Sculley’s public evangelizing, the startup
has raised more than $480,000 on the crowdfunding website
IndieGoGo Inc. from 3,000 people who pre-ordered the sleek
Misfit Shine gizmo.  “Sonny is amazing,” Sculley said. “A true talent, in the
spirit of  Steve Jobs .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Milian in San Francisco at 
 mmilian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Cantor at 
 dcantor5@bloomberg.net  