-- Ex-Banker Aims to Help Soccer Scouts Hunting for Another Messi
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-12-13T00:01:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/ex-banker-aims-to-help-soccer-scouts-hunting-for-another-messi.html
Soccer teams are using video more
than ever to find new players, although scouts say there’s no
substitute for the naked eye.  The sport’s transfer window reopens Jan. 1, and a team’s
success in the world’s annual $2 billion player-trading market
can mean the difference between Champions League millions or
bankruptcy. Companies such as Wyscout -- an Italian video-
scouting service founded by a former  Banca Carige SpA (CRG)  worker --
are stepping in to provide data on 220,000 players worldwide.  With new European financial rules coming into force in 2014
and participation in the region’s Champions League bringing in
at least 7.2 million euros ($9.4 million), clubs are under more
pressure to sign the right talent at the right price. Teams such
as Portsmouth, which won England’s F.A. Cup two years before its
2010 bankruptcy, have suffered after overspending. Video opens
up new regions for scouting for big clubs, and lets smaller
teams showcase talent for sale, Wyscout says. Still, some say
watching a player live gives more insight.  “It’s a brilliant and valuable extra tool but it’s only an
extra tool,” Ian Broomfield, who was Tottenham’s chief scout
until the departure of coach Harry Redknapp this year, said of
video.  Wyscout was founded by former banker Matteo Campodonico,
who has increased the business from one serving a single top
Italian club, Genoa, in 2005 to an operation that provides video
to more than 300 teams. Four-time European champion Barcelona,
English Premier League team Liverpool and German titleholder
Borussia Dortmund are paying 10,000 euros per registration.  ‘More Efficient’  Use of Wyscout has increased 20 percent in the past month,
as clubs monitor players around the world instead of flying
scouts to far-off regions, Campodonico said in an interview in
 London .  “We are trying to make the player recruitment process more
efficient,” said Campodonico, who left Banca Carige in 2007.
“Clubs can now look at videos online of players from places
like Venezuela and  Korea  before sending their scouts on a wild-
goose chase.”  Campodonico, 36, and some friends started the business as a
hobby and got established by handing a DVD to Genoa’s coach, who
saw the potential. They got funding from Antonio Gozzi, chief
executive officer of Italian steel company Duferco, and now
employ 60 people, including 30 in Bulgaria responsible for
logging every aspect from passes made to shots on target for
each player. Wyscout makes a profit of 1 million euros on sales
of 4 million euros, Campodonico said.  New Rules  European teams spent 393 million euros in last year’s
January window, and the new rules from soccer’s regional
governing body, UEFA, means they’re looking to shop smarter.
Mistakes can be costly.  Liverpool, controlled by the owners of Major League
Baseball’s Boston Red Sox, spent about 100 million pounds ($161
million) on players in 2011 and ended last season in eighth
place, its lowest finish since 1994. New coach Brendan Rodgers
was told to cut the squad before Boston-based Fenway Sports
Group would allow spending.  Barcelona brought three-time world player of the year
Lionel Messi to Spain from Newell’s Old Boys in  Argentina  at age
13, and  groomed him  into the forward who has scored 86 goals
this calendar year to break a record set in 1972.  Teams and agents supply the company videos, which are
filtered to allow users to view entire matches or focus on a
player’s offensive or defensive game.  Cover the Budget  Smaller clubs sometimes use the videos to showcase players
in hopes of selling them on for a profit, Campodonico said.  “They make hardly anything from matchday attendance or
television rights,” he said of smaller clubs. “They sell one
player for the right price and a lower division team can cover
its entire annual budget.”  Former  England  coach Graham Taylor said clubs can’t rely on
video recruiting tools alone because watching a player live
gives more information.  Taylor, who took Watford from the lowest rung of English
professional soccer to second place in the top division, cited
the success that Newcastle manager Alan Pardew has had with his
top talent spotter Graham Carr.  “You have to be sharp and quick and know what’s happening
in other countries,” Taylor said in a telephone interview.  Carr’s contacts have helped Newcastle sign forward Papiss
Cisse for a portion of the 35 million pounds the club banked
from selling striker Andy Carroll to Liverpool in January 2011.
Carroll, now on loan at West Ham, scored 4 goals in 35
appearances for the Reds last season while  Senegal ’s Cisse got
13 goals in 14 games.  Taylor, who last coached with Aston Villa in 2003, said
players move much more in today’s game and the ability to adjust
to new leagues is as important as talent.  “It’s a massive change of country in some cases, massive
change of climate in some cases, massive change of culture,”
Taylor said. “Buying players in from abroad, we all recognize
the successful ones but you can take my word there are as many
if not more that have not been successful.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  