-- Ex-Mizuho Banker Gets 32 Months for Leaks to Girlfriends
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-12-13T13:18:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/ex-mizuho-banker-gets-32-months-for-leaking-tips-to-girlfriends.html
Former Mizuho International Plc
investment banker Thomas Ammann was sentenced to 32 months in
prison for passing inside information about deals he was
advising on to two women he was dating.  Ammann, a 39-year-old German national who worked on the
Mizuho mergers and acquisitions team advising  Canon Inc. (7751)  on its
takeover of OCE NV, must serve half of the sentence, Judge
Anthony Leonard ruled today.  Jessica Mang and Christina Weckwerth were cleared of
trading on illegal tips from him following a London trial that
ended last month. Ammann pleaded guilty earlier this year to
insider trading and encouraging the women to commit insider
trading.  “It is clear that without your encouragement, neither of
these women would have traded in OCE shares,” Leonard said.
“You made use of that inside information deliberately and
dishonestly.”  Mang and Weckwerth nearly doubled the amount they invested
trading on the tip and then paid half their profits to Ammann,
the U.K. Financial Services Authority said while prosecuting the
case at a four-week trial. Ammann tried to avoid getting caught
by having his girlfriends, who didn’t know the banker was
involved with them both simultaneously, make the trades, the FSA
said.  Canon, the Tokyo-based maker of cameras and photocopiers,
agreed to buy OCE in a 730 million-euro ($954.6 million) deal in
November 2009.  $3.2 Million  Weckwerth, who has British and Cypriot citizenship, took in
nearly 2 million pounds ($3.23 million) after investing
1 million euros before the deal, prosecutors said. She argued
she bought the shares only after doing her own research on
Ammann’s recommendation, and that she didn’t know his work was
related to the tips.  Mang, a British chiropractor who met Ammann at London
nightclub Movida in 2009, said she bought the shares at Ammann’s
request because she wanted to show she trusted him.  The banker exploited his privileged position “to make easy
money,” FSA director of enforcement Tracey McDermott said in a
statement. “Today’s sentence should serve as a clear warning of
the consequences to anyone who might be tempted to follow
Ammann’s example.”  Ammann was with a third woman when his house was raided in
2010, FSA lawyer Amanda Pinto said yesterday during a pre-
sentencing hearing. The woman, who wasn’t identified, was
Japanese and didn’t speak English.  Young Son  The convicted banker also has a young son with a Chinese
woman who has now left the country, leaving his elderly mother
to care for the child, Ammann’s lawyer  Adrian Darbishire  said,
asking the judge for leniency. Ammann also has debts of as much
as $400,000 from bad property investments.  “He yielded to the temptation that was presented to him,”
Darbishire said. “He has destroyed his good character, his
career, his professional reputation, and any hope of working
again in the” finance industry.  It emerged yesterday Ammann is facing separate charges
related to the theft of food from  Harrods , the luxury London
department store owned by the Qatari sovereign-wealth fund. The
judge referred to another prosecution, delayed because of the
 insider trading  charges, over stolen cheese.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net ;
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  