-- Ex-Wells Fargo Banker Among Nine Hit With Insider Trading
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-12-13T22:52:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/ex-wells-fargo-banker-among-nine-hit-with-insider-trading.html
A former  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) 
investment banker is among nine people charged with taking part
in an insider-trading conspiracy that brought in $11 million in
illegal gains from tips on pending mergers.  John Femenia, 31, is accused of misusing his position at
 Wells Fargo Securities LLC  to get information about transactions
involving the firm’s clients and turning the data over to others
in exchange for kickbacks of cash and gold, according to an
indictment unsealed today in federal court in Charlotte, North
Carolina. Six of those charged will plead guilty, the Justice
Department said in an e-mailed statement.  Femenia worked in San Francisco-based Wells Fargo’s
Charlotte office when most of the activity allegedly occurred
and later in New York, where he lives now, according to the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, which filed a civil case
against Femenia in  Charlotte  on Dec. 5. He was arrested today in
New York, according to the government.  From March 2010 until December, “the defendants and others
were members of an insider trading conspiracy that stole
material nonpublic information, including information about
upcoming corporate mergers and acquisitions, from Wells Fargo
and its clients,” according to the indictment.  Acquisition Tips  The tips involved acquisitions of ATC Technology Corp. in
2010, Smurfit-Stone Container Corp. and K-Sea Transportation
Partners LP in 2011 and  Shaw Group Inc. (SHAW)  in 2012, according to
the indictment.  “Wells Fargo has robust policies and training programs in
place on the handling of confidential information, and we have a
zero-tolerance policy for the misuse of such information,”
 Elise Wilkinson , a spokeswoman for Wells Fargo, the biggest U.S.
home lender, said in an e-mailed statement. “Mr. Femenia is no
longer employed at Wells Fargo and we are continuing to assist
the SEC and U.S. Attorney with their actions.”  Femenia passed his inside information to friends, according
to the indictment. The tips were then spread to their friends
and family members in five states, according to the government.  In addition to insider trading conspiracy, Femenia is
charged with wire fraud conspiracy, insider trading, mortgage
fraud and money laundering conspiracy. If convicted of the bank
fraud charge alone, Femenia faces as long as 30 years in prison.  Femenia was arrested today at 6 a.m. at his home in Lower
Manhattan and appeared before a federal magistrate in New York,
according to  Jim Margolin , a spokesman for the Federal Bureau of
Investigation’s New York office.  Bond Release  Femenia was released on a $1.25 million personal
recognizance bond secured by $500,000 in cash or property,
according to court records. His next court date is Dec. 27.
Femenia, who is represented by Scott Morvillo, can’t have any
contact with his co-defendants outside the presence of counsel.  Two of the alleged co-conspirators, Shawn Hegedus and
Danielle Laurenti, are fugitives, according to prosecutors.  Hegedus is a high school friend of Femenia’s who at times
worked as a stockbroker and financial adviser. He allegedly
bought 550 gold bars on Aug. 2 with some of the insider trading
proceeds, according to the indictment. Prosecutors are seeking
forfeiture of the gold, a home, and the $11 million of allegedly
illegal profit.  In addition to insider trading, Hegedus and Laurenti are
also accused of laundering proceeds from the tips through a
casino in Las Vegas and engaging in mortgage fraud while buying
a home in Waxhaw, North Carolina.  The indictment stems from a probe by a Charlotte-based task
force of the FBI, dubbed “Operation Insider Out” that began
earlier this year to seek out insider trading activities in the
Charlotte area, according to the Justice Department.  The case is U.S. v. Femenia, 12-cr-00386, U.S. District
Court, Western District of North Carolina (Charlotte).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  