-- Fat-Passenger Bus Tests No Longer Necessary, U.S. Says
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2012-12-13T22:35:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/fat-passenger-bus-tests-no-longer-necessary-u-s-says.html
The U.S. Transportation Department
is dropping a proposal that would have asked makers of transit
buses to test new models on their ability stand up to wear and
tear caused by heavier passengers.  The Federal Transit Administration won’t require the tests,
which would have assumed U.S. bus riders weigh an average of 175
pounds instead of 150 pounds, the agency said in a  Federal
Register notice  today.  A highway policy bill Congress passed earlier this year
included new testing requirements, eliminating the need for the
proposed regulations, the agency said.  The transit administration in March 2011 floated the idea
of tougher bus-testing requirements so transit systems using
federal funds were purchasing buses that would hold up to the
strains of carrying passengers who’ve gotten heavier along the
rest of the  U.S. population .  Besides assuming an extra 25 pounds per rider,
manufacturers were told to plan on an additional quarter of a
square foot of space per passenger in bus designs.  Bus manufacturers, which include  Daimler AG (DAI)  and  Volvo AB (VOLVB) ,
would have been able to choose among ways to meet the
requirements in tests that presumed heavier passengers. They
could have upgraded the chassis, tires, wheels, brakes or
suspensions, or lowering the number of passengers that their
vehicles were rated to carry.  The FTA is opting for a more comprehensive bus-safety
program specified in the highway law, including pass/fail
standards for testing, Brian Farber, an agency spokesman, said
in an e-mail. The agency will work with bus manufacturers and
transit agencies to develop the new rules, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  