-- FDIC Guarantee Program Set to Expire After Senate Block
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-12-14T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/fdic-guarantee-program-set-to-expire-after-senate-block.html
A Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
program that expanded safeguards for some business and
government bank accounts will probably expire on Dec. 31 after
the  U.S. Senate  failed to advance a proposal for an extension.  A 50-42 vote yesterday on a procedural motion fell 10 short
of the 60 needed to move forward on a two-year extension of the
Transaction Account Guarantee Program, effectively killing it.
The TAG program, introduced in the wake of the 2008 credit
crisis, guarantees $1.5 trillion in non-interest bearing
accounts above the FDIC’s general limit of $250,000. An
extension in 2010 is set to expire at the end of the year.  “Absent unforeseen developments, the TAG program will
expire at the end of the year,” James Ballentine, executive
vice president of congressional relations and political affairs
at the  American Bankers Association , said in an e-mail.  TAG, which provided unlimited backing for accounts used for
payrolls and other business or government expenses, was opposed
by Republicans as a bailout program that shouldn’t be continued.
Groups such as the ABA and the  Independent Community Bankers of
America  sought the extension as a way to keep accounts from
being moved to bigger banks or money-market mutual funds.  “We’re disappointed that the Senate failed to vote on a
temporary extension,” American Bankers Association President
and Chief Executive Officer  Frank Keating  said in a statement.
“The TAG program has been fully funded by the banking industry
at no taxpayer expense and millions of small businesses and
municipal depositors would have valued its continuation during
this period of economic recovery.”  Delaware’s Precaution  With the Senate’s rejection of TAG, Delaware Treasurer Chip Flowers is directing banks holding his state’s deposits to
quickly set aside “sufficient collateral to ensure the safety
and security” of the accounts, he said in a statement
yesterday. This has to be done by the end of the month,
according to a directive from Flowers’ office.  In October, the National Association of State Treasurers
reaffirmed a resolution calling for TAG to be extended “to
provide added stability and predictability at this still-fragile
time for the economy and the financial system on which it
depends.”  FDIC Chairman  Martin Gruenberg  said last week that
community banks have sufficient liquidity to manage TAG’s
expiration even if the deposits it attracts do migrate to bigger
institutions.  “TAG was extended by statute through the Dodd-Frank Act,
and the FDIC has traditionally deferred to Congress in deciding
appropriate deposit insurance limits,”  Andrew Gray , an FDIC
spokesman, said in an e-mail.  CBO Report  The  Congressional Budget Office , in a Dec. 10 report,
estimated that the FDIC would be unable to cover potential
losses from the program and projected that costs to the agency
would extend beyond 2015. Republicans used the CBO findings to
object to the TAG extension.  “It creates a new amount of spending above and beyond what
was contemplated there,” Senator Patrick Toomey, a Pennsylvania
Republican, said in a statement. “That is a huge problem in and
of itself. So I would oppose this legislation on the substance
of it, but in particular, I’m objecting to the fact that it does
exceed this budgetary authority.”  The Senate vote was celebrated by the  Credit Union National
Association , which had lobbied against an extension.  “This is the first time that  credit unions  have vigorously
opposed bank-backed legislation; it won’t be the last time,”
CUNA President and CEO  Bill Cheney  said in a statement. “We
will be alert for any attempt by banks to attempt to attach this
bill to some other year-end legislative package.”  Brian Gardner , senior vice president and Washington policy
analyst for Keefe Bruyette & Woods Inc., said yesterday’s vote
probably signals the end for the program.  “It might not be fatal, but TAG is in intensive care and
its vital signs are pretty weak,” Gardner said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  