-- Fed Extends Dollar Swap Lines With Central Banks
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2012-12-13T14:21:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/fed-extends-swap-lines-with-european-canadian-central-banks.html
The  Federal Reserve  said it will
extend temporary dollar-swap agreements with four major central
banks through Feb. 1, 2014.  The arrangements include the  Bank of Canada , the  Bank of
England , the  European Central Bank  and the  Swiss National Bank ,
the Fed said in a statement today in Washington. Previously, the
arrangements had been authorized through Feb. 1, 2013.  The central banks are also extending through Feb. 1, 2014,
the network of temporary bilateral liquidity swap arrangements,
the Fed and the  European Central Bank  said in separate press
releases.  The bilateral swaps “enable the euro-system to continue to
provide euro to those central banks when required and to provide
to its counterparties,” as well as yen, pounds, Swiss francs
and Canadian dollars, in addition to the existing liquidity-
providing operations in U.S. dollars, the Frankfurt-based ECB
said in a separate statement.  The  Bank of Japan (8301)  will consider an extension of both
arrangements at its next monetary policy meeting, the Fed said.  The Fed first opened swap lines in December 2007 to provide
the global financial system with dollar liquidity as the
subprime mortgage crisis began to create doubts about the
quality of assets on bank balance sheets around the world. The
swaps were closed in February 2010 and re-opened in May of that
year as a squeeze in dollar funding re-emerged with the European
financial crisis.  Outstanding swaps on the Fed’s balance sheet declined to
$12.2 billion Dec. 5 from $31 billion at the start of August.
Foreign banks hold billions in dollar assets without the broad
deposit-based funding structure of U.S. banks. The Fed swaps
provide a backup to market sources of dollar funding.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Torres at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Costelloe at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net  