-- Felda, Astro to Replace AirAsia, Malaysia Marine in KLCI Index
-- B y   G a n   Y e n   K u a n
-- 2012-12-13T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/felda-astro-to-replace-airasia-malaysia-marine-in-klci-index.html
Felda Global Ventures Holdings Bhd. (FGV) 
and  Astro Malaysia Holdings Bhd. (ASTRO) , which raised funds in two of
Asia’s biggest initial public offerings this year, will join the
country’s benchmark FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index from Dec. 24.  AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA) , the region’s biggest low-cost carrier, and
 Malaysia Marine and Heavy Engineering Holdings Bhd. , a rig
builder, will make way in the half-yearly review,  FTSE Group  and
Bursa Malaysia Bhd. said in a joint statement yesterday. The
market capitalization of both companies has fallen with their
share prices this year.  “There will be some selling pressure by those funds that
need to do the adjustments,” Ang Kok Heng, who manages the
equivalent of $425 million as chief investment officer at
Phillip Capital Management Sdn., said by phone in  Kuala Lumpur .  Some 115 funds with assets worth $9.1 billion use the $174
billion KLCI index as their primary benchmark, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. This excludes those that don’t disclose
their holdings and private funds. Felda Global, the world’s
third-biggest plantation company by hectares, debuted in June
after raising $3.3 billion. Astro, the nation’s largest pay-TV
operator, sold $1.5 billion of shares.  AirAsia has  slumped 17 percent since Sept. 10, erasing 1.58
billion ringgit ($518 million) from its market value, amid
concern competition may intensify after Indonesia’s PT Lion
Mentari Airlines said it would help set up a rival low-cost
carrier in Malaysia named Malindo Airways. The stock, which
joined the index last December, is down 28 percent this year.  Reserve List  Malaysia Marine (MMHE)  has slipped 19 percent in 2012, compared
with an 8 percent increase in the KLCI index. The company said
last month its third-quarter net income fell to 8.1 million
ringgit from 80.2 million ringgit a year earlier.  IHH Healthcare Bhd. (IHH) , a hospitals operator, joined
Malaysia’s benchmark gauge in August after raising $2.1 billion
in a dual listing in Malaysia and Singapore.  AirAsia,  Gamuda Bhd. (GAM) , SapuraKencana Petroleum Bhd., MMC
Corp. and  Lafarge Malayan Cement Bhd. (LMC)  were placed on a reserve
list to join the KLCI, according to yesterday’s statement. The
next review will take place on June 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gan Yen Kuan in Kuala Lumpur at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Barry Porter at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  