-- FirstEnergy Falls on Cash Flow Concern: Chicago Mover
-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 2012-12-13T21:31:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/firstenergy-falls-on-cash-flow-concern-chicago-mover.html
FirstEnergy Corp. (FE) , whose utilities
serve 6 million customers in the U.S. Midwest and Northeast,
fell to its lowest in four months after a UBS Securities LLC
report said it needs to sell about $500 million in assets next
year to preserve its credit rating.  FirstEnergy, based in Akron, Ohio, declined 1.2 percent to
$40.72 at the close in New York, the lowest since Aug. 10,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The power company faces negative cash flows of about $1.1
billion from 2013 to 2015 as it pays off $1.4 billion in debt at
its retail power marketing business and about $400 million held
by a transmission unit, Julien Dumoulin-Smith, a New York-based
UBS analyst, said in a report today.  “We believe the company continues to contemplate asset
sales to meet its equity needs, which are likely around $500
million, to maintain its corporate credit rating,” Dumoulin-
Smith said.  FirstEnergy has asked West Virginia regulators to allow it
to shift ownership of a merchant coal plant to a regulated
utility, adding about $1.1 billion to the rate base that
determines the utility’s earnings.  FirstEnergy will need to sell other assets such as
hydroplants or a coal mine to maintain its BBB- rating from
Standard & Poor’s, said Dumoulin-Smith. He lowered the company’s
target price by $2 a share to $43 a share on the prospect of the
sales.  He also warned it may be snared in a probe that  Ohio 
regulators announced yesterday of the state’s retail electric
market.  “We see this development as a negative as it increases the
risk of political interference in the market and seems to
specifically target FirstEnergy,” Dumoulin-Smith said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  