-- Former Madoff Controller Still Cooperating, U.S. Says
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-12-13T00:19:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/former-madoff-controller-still-cooperating-u-s-says.html
Bernard Madoff ’s former controller,
Enrica Cotellessa-Pitz, had her sentencing delayed until June
because she’s still helping federal prosecutors investigate her
ex-boss’s  Ponzi scheme .  U.S. District Judge Laura Taylor Swain in Manhattan
rescheduled the sentencing after prosecutors wrote to her
requesting a six-month postponement “given Cotellessa-Pitz’s
continuing cooperation.” She was to be sentenced Dec. 14.  Cotellessa-Pitz pleaded guilty last December to four
criminal counts, admitting she created phony stock records, made
false entries in the firm’s general ledgers and filed untrue
reports with regulators. She told Swain she didn’t know Madoff
was running a Ponzi scheme while she helped falsify the firm’s
accounting for almost a decade.  Swain told Cotellessa-Pitz she faces as long as 50 years in
prison for her crimes, including conspiracy, falsifying books
and records of a broker-dealer, falsifying books and records of
an  investment adviser  and making false filings with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  Cotellessa-Pitz also faces forfeiture of $97.3 billion,
Swain said last year when the defendant entered her guilty plea.  Madoff, who pleaded guilty to fraud charges, is serving 150
years in prison for the largest Ponzi scheme in U.S. history.
Investors lost about $20 billion in principal, the trustee
liquidating Madoff’s business in  bankruptcy court  has said.  David Rody, a lawyer for Cotellessa-Pitz, consented to the
rescheduling of the sentencing, prosecutors said.  The criminal case is U.S. v. O’Hara, 10-cr-228, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  