-- France Telecom CFO Says Stock, Cash Generation Undervalued
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2012-12-14T08:16:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/france-telecom-s-stock-cash-generation-undervalued-cfo-says.html
France Telecom  SA’s market value
doesn’t accurately reflect the company’s ability to generate
cash and trails the former phone monopoly’s own projections,
Chief Financial Officer Gervais Pellissier said.  “The stock market is too pessimistic about our ability to
generate cash flow from operations,” Pellissier said in an
interview at the carrier’s Paris headquarters yesterday. “The
estimates underlying our market cap today seem low compared to
our own vision on cash generation.”  France  Telecom was the worst performer in the country’s
benchmark CAC 40 Index this year amid falling prices of phone
packages prompted by discounter  Iliad SA (ILD)  and concerns over cash
flows. Chief Executive Officer Stephane Richard cut the
company’s dividend forecasts in October, while  Fitch Ratings 
 downgraded  its debt. Yesterday, its Orange wireless unit and
 Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s SFR division were fined 183 million euros ($239
million) by antitrust authorities over tariffs they offered
between 2005 and 2008.  Pellissier, who is also delegate CEO to Richard, said
France Telecom doesn’t feel pressure from its lenders and has
enough liquidity to meet maturities and to pay a dividend. The
company intends to keep a lid on its  debt  as it examines
opportunities for acquisitions, he said.  U.K. Venture  “We’re one of the European phone companies that aren’t
subject to worry about  balance-sheet  issues,” Pellissier said.
“Still, having an eye on our balance sheet means we’re not
going to do foolish acquisitions and we’re not going to spend
inefficiently on capex.”  The stock has dropped 30 percent this year, while the CAC
40 jumped 15 percent. It’s the third-biggest decliner in the 23-
company  Bloomberg Europe Telecommunication Services Index. (BETELES)  The
shares slipped 0.4 percent to 8.52 euros at 9:15 a.m. in Paris,
valuing the company at 22.6 billion euros.  France Telecom, which had net debt of 31.2 billion euros at
the end of the first half, will look at what assets it can sell
to finance any acquisition opportunities, Pellissier said.  The company will consider a bid for  TeliaSonera AB (TLSN) ’s Yoigo
unit in  Spain  by the end of the year and is potentially
interested in Vivendi’s  Maroc Telecom SA (IAM) , though only under
“very numerous conditions” including price and any asset
overlap, the CFO said.  An initial public offering of a minority stake in the EE
wireless venture in the U.K. with  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  may take
place toward the end of next year or early 2014, Pellissier
said. A decision with the German partner will depend on the pace
at which EE can win customers of premium packages based on high-
speed 4G wireless technology, he said.  Home Competition  France Telecom is also betting on high-speed packages --
whether 4G on mobile or fiber on fixed-line internet -- to boost
the phone bills of consumers in its home market, the executive
said.  “We think most of the bad news is behind us,” said
Pellissier, who expects the focus to shift from just lowering
prices. “We believe in our ability to monetize data consumption
and higher speed.”  At home, France Telecom competes against Vivendi,  Bouygues
SA (EN)  and Iliad. Iliad, founded by Xavier Niel, scooped up 6.4
percent of the French market in its first nine months by selling
packages starting at 2 euros a month.  France Telecom has forecast its operating cash flow would
only grow again in 2014, once price pressure stabilizes in
France. Operating cash flow will be more than 7 billion euros
next year, from a target of close to 8 billion euros in 2012.  Dividend ‘Guarantee’  The owner of the Orange brand has said it will pay a
 dividend  of at least 80 cents each for 2012 and 2013. The 2011
dividend was 1.40 euros.  “We set the dividend level perhaps lower than some had
expected, but that’s allowed us to guarantee it for two years,”
Pellissier said.  Competitors in the telecommunications business, an industry
which has paid generous dividends historically, have also curbed
payouts. Deutsche Telekom, Royal KPN NV and  Telefonica SA (TEF)  have
slashed or even completely scrapped their dividend plans.  With a yield of 16 percent, France Telecom’s stock return
is still almost double the average among western  Europe ’s former
phone monopolies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  