-- Gafisa to Lead Profit Gains With Pricier Homes: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2012-12-13T13:05:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/gafisa-to-lead-profit-gains-with-pricier-homes-corporate-brazil.html
Gafisa SA (GFSA3) ’s return to building
higher priced homes after slowing growth derailed its low-income
strategy is winning over analysts, who project the company’s
profit gain will be the best among major peers in 2013.  Gafisa, which earlier this year rejected an asset purchase
offer from Sam Zell’s Equity International, will earn 46
centavos per share next year, a 24-fold increase from 2012 and
the steepest jump among members of the Bloomberg World Real
Estate Index of 308 companies. Russian developer  PIK Group (PIKK) ’s
earnings are set to more than triple to 5.88 rubles per share,
the second-biggest increase, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Gafisa is turning away from government-sponsored projects
aimed at low-income families, said Guilherme Vilazante, a
housing analyst at Barclays Plc. The company lost money in six
of the past eight  quarters  as it overestimated demand and built
inexpensive homes faster than it could sell them.  Brazil ’s
economic growth is forecast in a central bank survey to slow to
1.03 percent this year from 2.7 percent in 2011.  “In 2009 Gafisa, as other homebuilders, was betting
heavily on growth strategies,” Vilazante, who rates the stock
the equivalent of buy, said by phone from Sao Paulo. “But
eventually it found out that profit margins were disappointing.
Earnings suffered for a while because of this problem. Now the
company seems to be scaling back new projects and focusing on
profit margins, which should bring good results.”  Shares of Gafisa, Brazil’s sixth-largest homebuilder by
sales, have gained 17 percent this year, while the benchmark
Bovespa index is up 4.5 percent. The stock has jumped 126
percent since its 2012 low on June 6.  Mortgage Subsidies  Cyrela Brazil Realty SA Empreendimentos e Participacoes ,
Brazil’s biggest homebuilder by revenue, is expected to post
earnings per share of 2.11 reais next year, 25 percent more than
in 2012, according to the average estimate of 14 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. PDG Realty SA Empreendimentos &
Participacoes and Brookfield Incorporacoes SA are forecast to
turn this year’s losses into profits in 2013.  Demand for new homes increased after former President  Luiz
Inacio Lula da Silva  unveiled in 2009 the program Minha Casa,
Minha Vida, or “My Home, My Life,” to subsidize mortgages for
low-income families. His successor,  Dilma Rousseff , took office
in 2011 and continued the program as part of her effort to shore
up economic growth.  Total loans in Brazil to individuals buying houses rose to
244 billion reais ($117.8 billion) in October, up from 81
billion three years earlier, data from the central bank show.  Housing Prices  Brazilian real-estate prices have jumped 50 percent in the
past two years, according to a housing price index from the Sao
Paulo-based Foundation Economics Research Institute which covers
seven major cities in the country. In the U.S.,  home prices  slid
0.7 percent in the period, according to the S&P/Case-Shiller
index of  property values  in 20 cities.  While the subsidies boosted demand for homes by lower-
income individuals, Sao Paulo-based Gafisa struggled to profit
from it, which justifies the company’s decision to turn to
higher-end projects, said Otavio Vieira, who helps manage 270
million reais as a partner at hedge fund Fides Asset Management.  “Demand is growing in the low-income segment, but one
should bear in mind that houses built for this market are
cheaper, with very tight profit margins, so a company must have
a certain set of skills to keep its operations very efficient if
it wants to succeed in this business,” Vieira said by phone
from  Rio de Janeiro . “That wasn’t the case for Gafisa, and now
that the company is turning away from this segment, things seem
to be improving.”  Third-Quarter Losses  Tenda , Gafisa’s low-income unit, posted a net loss of 18.8
million reais in the third quarter, less than the year-earlier
loss of 55.7 million reais, as it postponed new projects and
focused on the units already being built, Chief Executive
Officer Duilio Calciolari said in a statement on its website.  Gafisa’s press office declined to comment on the company’s
outlook for 2013.  The homebuilder confirmed in a Feb. 2 regulatory filing
that it was in talks with Equity International to sell some
assets. Four weeks later, the company said it didn’t reach an
agreement with Zell’s fund because the bid “significantly”
underestimated the value of the company. Equity International
bought a  stake  in the company in 2005, before Gafisa’s initial
public offering, and sold the stock in 2011.  While there are signs of improvement in its operations,
Gafisa’s share price already reflects the strategy shift and has
little room to rise, said Fausto Gouveia, who helps manage 380
million reais at Legan Administracao de Recursos. The stock
 trades  at 10.4 times its estimated earnings, compared with an
average ratio of 10.9 among members of the Bovespa index and
12.2 for the Bloomberg World Real Estate Index.  ‘Fair Price’  “As you can see from many analysts’ estimates, most people
already expect the company to post better figures next year,”
Gouveia said by phone from  Sao Paulo . “I don’t see it as a
buying opportunity.”  With Gafisa scaling back Tenda’s operations, profit should
be fueled by its Alphaville subsidiary, which focuses on the
high-income market, said Rodolfo Amstalden, an analyst at
consulting firm Empiricus Research.  “Alphaville is a strong brand in the market, and it has
good growth potential for the coming years,” Amstalden said by
phone from Sao Paulo. “With Gafisa working to resolve the
problems it had with Tenda and Alphaville’s business growing, we
should see earnings improving in the near future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  