-- Gays May Diverge From Blacks as Top Court Reshapes Rights
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-12-13T05:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/gays-may-diverge-from-blacks-as-top-court-reshapes-rights.html
The legal fortunes of gays and
racial minorities may move in opposite directions when the U.S.
Supreme Court’s term reaches its climax in late June.  In agreeing last week to consider two gay-marriage cases,
including a fight over  California ’s ban, the justices ensured
that the coming months will be pivotal for U.S. civil rights.  Gays are looking to gain new legal safeguards just as
racial minorities may lose some of theirs. Even as the court
weighs gay marriage rights, it will consider ending decades-old
protections for blacks and Hispanics in cases involving  voting
rights  and university affirmative action. In each case, the
deciding vote may belong to Justice Anthony Kennedy, who is both
a skeptic of racial preferences and a backer of gay rights.  “It would be deeply unfortunate if the court moved forward
with equality for gay men and lesbians at the same time it moved
backward in terms of progress on racial equality,” said  Doug Kendall , president of the Washington-based Constitutional
Accountability Center, which backs gay marriage and legal
protections for racial minorities.  The court last week decided to dive into the gay-marriage
issue, accepting an appeal in a dispute over California’s
Proposition 8. That 2008 ballot measure reversed a decision by
the California Supreme Court, which five months earlier had
enshrined gay marriage as a state constitutional right.  Fighting Chance  The justices also will review the federal Defense of
Marriage Act, a 1996 law that defines marriage as solely an
opposite-sex union. The statute blocks legally married gay
couples from claiming the same federal tax breaks and other
marriage benefits that opposite-sex spouses receive.  The court will probably hear arguments in the gay marriage
cases in March. In each, same-sex marriage advocates have at
least a fighting chance, given Kennedy’s history.  The Ronald Reagan appointee wrote a 1996 decision
invalidating a  Colorado  constitutional amendment that barred
cities and counties from enacting anti-discrimination laws to
protect gays.  The San Francisco-based 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals
relied on that ruling in striking down Proposition 8. The panel
said California, like Colorado, had improperly singled out gays
for unequal treatment.  Kennedy also wrote the court’s 2003 decision that said
states can’t criminalize gay sex acts. Overturning the
convictions of two men in  Texas , he wrote that “the state
cannot demean their existence or control their destiny by making
their private sexual conduct a crime.”  Cautionary Note  Those words came with a cautionary note, however, as
Kennedy said he wasn’t passing judgment on gay marriage. He said
the case “does not involve whether the government must give
formal recognition to any relationship that homosexual persons
seek to enter.”  Backers of Proposition 8 say they’re confident Kennedy will
vote to uphold the measure and refuse to recognize a
constitutional right to same-sex marriage. Even after new laws
go into effect allowing gay marriage in Maine, Maryland and
 Washington , only nine of the 50 states, plus the  District of
Columbia , will permit the practice.  “It would be unlike Kennedy to overturn the laws of 41
states,” said Maggie Gallagher, a senior fellow at the American
Principles Project, a Washington-based group that opposes gay
marriage.  The Defense of Marriage Act will be easier for Kennedy to
strike down, Gallagher said. The law marked the first time the
federal government had explicitly defined marriage, an issue
traditionally governed by state law.  ‘Strong Temptation’  “There’s going to be a strong temptation for him to split
the difference and think he’s preserving the principle and
integrity of the court,” said Gallagher.  The Proposition 8 case offers several avenues for a narrow
gay-rights victory, one that might be more palatable to Kennedy
than forcing all 50 states to recognize same-sex marriage. The
high court might effectively limit its ruling to California by
adopting the 9th Circuit’s reasoning that a state can’t rescind
marriage rights once they are conferred.  The justices could also endorse what Kenji Yoshino, a
constitutional professor at  New York  University School of Law,
has  called  the “eight-state solution.” That would bar states
from giving gay couples all the rights and responsibilities of
marriage while withholding that label from them.  Yoshino says  Delaware ,  Hawaii ,  Illinois ,  Nevada ,  New
Jersey ,  Oregon , and Rhode Island would be affected by such a
ruling.  Another Option  The court gave itself another option last week when it said
it will consider whether the sponsors of Proposition 8 had the
legal right to file an appeal. A conclusion that the answer is
“no” would scuttle the case and let gay marriage resume in at
least some parts of California.  Gay-rights advocates also may accomplish a major legal
objective in the Defense of Marriage Act case. The Obama
administration argues that courts should give “heightened
scrutiny” to laws discriminating against gays, just as judges
already do in cases involving race or gender.  “There’s such a range of possibilities, it’s impossible
not to be somewhat concerned but also hopeful they’ll do
something good,” said  Paul Smith , a Washington lawyer who has
helped lead the fight against the Defense of Marriage Act.  At the same time, the court is positioned to overturn
decades-old legal protections for racial minorities, including
university affirmative action programs.  University Admissions  The court heard arguments in October on the University of
Texas’ admissions program, which uses race as a consideration in
admitting as much as a quarter of each class. With all five
Republican-appointed justices critical of racial preferences,
the biggest question for the nine-member court may be how broad
its decision will be.  A far-reaching ruling would threaten affirmative action
programs around the country.  And early next year the justices will hear arguments on a
provision in the 1965 Voting Rights Act, a law they almost
struck down in 2009. Writing for the court in that case, Chief
Justice  John Roberts  said the provision, which requires some
states to get federal clearance before changing their voting
rules, raised “serious constitutional questions.”  Kennedy potentially would join his four conservative
colleagues in the race cases while agreeing with the four
Democratic appointees on at least some issues in the gay
marriage cases. The 76-year-old justice couples his opposition
to racial distinctions with an embrace of liberty as a defining
constitutional value.  ‘Highly Skeptical’  “On the one hand, you have five justices who are highly
skeptical about racial discrimination even if it’s supposed to
be benign,” said  Randy Barnett , a constitutional law professor
at  Georgetown University Law Center  in Washington. “And then on
the other hand, you have a different five justices who are very
concerned about liberty and who could view the right to marry as
a form of liberty.”  Whether that outcome occurs will depend on one man, says
Geoffrey Stone, a constitutional law professor at the  University
of Chicago Law School .  “It’s all about  Anthony Kennedy ,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  