-- Gazit Discount Narrows on Demand as Teva Sinks: Israel Overnight
-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-12-13T07:58:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/gazit-discount-narrows-on-demand-as-teva-sinks-israel-overnight.html
Gazit-Globe Ltd. (GZT) , the Israeli
property firm that gets 21 percent of revenue from the U.S.,
rose to trade at the smallest discount to peers in four months
after raising twice what it planned in a bond sale.  The real estate developer gained 2.9 percent to $12.35 in
New York yesterday. The advance sent valuations to 8 times
reported earnings, reducing Gazit-Globe’s discount versus the
 Bloomberg EMEA Real Estate Index (BEUREAL)  to 51 percent, the smallest gap
since Aug. 12. The  Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index (ISRA25BN)  of the
largest U.S.-traded Israeli stocks rose 0.4 percent to 87.99,
while  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  plunged the most in 16
months on concern sales may slow more than expected.  Gazit-Globe said on Dec. 11 it received 1 billion shekels
($265 million) of commitments from institutions for its offering
of bonds due 2024, exceeding an initial plan to sell 500 million
shekels of debt. Home values in the U.S., the  fourth-biggest 
source of revenue for Gazit, have been boosted by record-low
mortgage rates, with prices jumping 6.3 percent in October from
a year earlier, the biggest increase since June 2006, data
provider CoreLogic Inc. said Dec. 4.  “Gazit-Globe rebounded with signs of a recovery of real
estate in the U.S.,” Amir Arad, an  analyst at Excellence
Nessuah Investment House Ltd. who has a buy rating on the
shares, said yesterday by phone from  Ramat Gan , Israel. “The
market wasn’t expecting such demand for the bonds, and this has
created more interest in the company.”  Gazit-Globe’s shares traded in Tel Aviv added 0.5 percent
to 47.08 shekels, or the equivalent of $12.49, as Israel’s  TA-25
Index (TA-25)  lost 0.3 percent at 9:49 a.m.  ‘Continued Improvements’  The bonds were assigned an ilA+ rating at Standard & Poor’s
Maalot, the fifth-highest grade. The yield on the company’s 5.35
percent notes maturing September 2024  rose less than one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 4.3465 percent, the highest
since Nov. 29, in Tel Aviv.  Gazit-Globe’s New York shares have gained 31 percent this
year, beating the 13 percent advance by the Bloomberg EMEA Real
Estate Index, which includes Doha-based  Ezdan Real Estate Co. (ERES) 
and Vienna-based  Immofinanz AG. (IIA)   Brazil, the Nordic region and Canada are expected to lead
growth for Gazit-Globe in the 2013, Chaim Katzman, the company’s
founder, said in September. The company, which owns properties
in New York, San Francisco and Sao Paulo, operates in 20
countries.  “There have been continued improvements within the
company’s principal holdings,” Arad said.  Lower Rates  U.S. homebuilders will probably outperform the  Standard &
Poor’s 500 (SPX)  Index in 2013, Robert Wetenhall, an analyst at  RBC
Capital Markets  wrote in a Dec. 11 investor note. “Stable”
pricing and low  interest rates  will create the foundation for a
“sharp” increase in orders in the spring, Wetenhall wrote.  The  Federal Reserve  said yesterday that it will expand its
asset purchase program by buying $45 billion a month of  Treasury
securities  starting in January to spur the economy. Rates will
stay low “at least as long” as unemployment remains above 6.5
percent and if inflation is projected to be no more than 2.5
percent, the Federal Open Market Committee said in a statement.  Israel, which has a population of similar size to
Switzerland’s, has 54 companies traded on the Nasdaq Stock
Market, the most of any country outside the U.S. after China.
The nation is also home to more startup companies per capita
than the U.S.  Teva Disappointment  Teva, the world’s largest maker of generic drugs, sank the
most since August 2011 on investor disappointment with Chief
Executive Officer Jeremy Levin’s plan to replace revenue from
branded drugs losing patent protection in the next three years.  American depositary receipts of the Petach Tikva, Israel-
based company tumbled 5.3 percent to $39.47, with trading
volumes six times the stock’s three-month daily average,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The  Tel Aviv  stock this
morning dropped 5 percent to 148.8 shekels, or $39.48.  Levin, who took over as CEO in May, spoke to a roomful of
analysts and investors in New York on Dec. 11, and vowed to
refocus the company’s branded efforts on areas such as neurology
while delivering cost cuts of as much as $2 billion.  “The company laid out a promising vision for the long term
but it might have been less clear for some how they’re going to
boost growth in the next few years,” Judson Clark, an analyst
at Edward Jones & Co. in Des Peres, Missouri, who has a buy
rating on the stock, said by phone yesterday.  Partner Communications Co. (PTNR) , Israel’s second-largest mobile
phone operator, rose for the first time in four days, gaining
2.7 percent to $6.38. Shares traded in Tel Aviv today gained 0.3
percent to 24.29 shekels, or $6.45.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  