-- Italy Notes Rise a Third Day as Borrowing Costs Fall at Auction
-- B y   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-12-13T16:42:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/german-bunds-fall-for-fourth-day-before-euro-area-officials-meet.html
Italy ’s two-year notes rose for a
third day as borrowing costs declined at a debt sale and concern
that Prime Minister Mario Monti’s resignation will cause a
political vacuum eased.  Ten-year bonds held two days of gains after former Prime
Minister Silvio Berlusconi said he may withdraw his bid to be
prime minister, throwing into doubt a comeback bid that
threatened to undermine budget-cutting measures. Greek bonds
advanced for a sixth day after euro-area finance ministers
approved rescue payments that will keep the country solvent.
German bunds declined for a fourth day as European officials met
in Brussels.  “Yields at the Italian sale were very satisfactory, lower
than last month,” said  Luca Cazzulani , a senior fixed-income
strategist at  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  in Milan. “Despite the recent
political events, investors have taken a constructive view.”  The Italian two-year yield fell four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 2.06 percent at 4:37 p.m. London time after
declining as much as eight basis points. The 6 percent note
maturing in November 2014 rose 0.07, or 70 euro cents per 1,000-
euro ($1,307) face amount, to 107.355. Ten-year yields were
 little changed  at 4.64 percent.  Italy sold 3.5 billion euros of a new three-year bond at a
yield of 2.50 percent, down from 2.64 percent at a previous
auction of the maturity on Nov. 14. Investors bid for 1.36 times
the number of securities sold at the three-year sale, the lowest
so-called bid-to-cover ratio since January.  “Given the recent political events it was good that they
managed to get the supply away,” said Lyn Graham-Taylor, a
fixed-income strategist at Rabobank International in  London .
“The bid-to-cover on the three year wasn’t very good.”  Moderate Bloc  Monti said on Dec. 8 he would resign as soon as the 2013
budget is passed. He spoke after Berlusconi’s party withdrew
support for the premier’s unelected government.  “If Monti decides to accept the request of the whole
moderate bloc” and seek the premiership, “I would not have any
problem in withdrawing my bid to be prime minister and could
accept to be the coordinator of the coalition,” Berlusconi told
reporters in  Rome  late yesterday.  European Commission President Jose Barroso told reporters
in Brussels today that he spoke with Berlusconi and told him
Italy must continue reforms.  Europe  needs a strong, “stable”
Italy, he said.  Greece ’s  10-year yield  fell 17 basis points to 12.97
percent. The 2 percent bond due in February 2023 rose 0.585 to
44.535 percent of face value.  Rubber Stamp  Finance chiefs meeting in Brussels today rubber-stamped the
next tranches of aid for Greece after wrapping up a 14-hour
negotiation on a banking union at 4:30 a.m. Of the funds, 34.3
billion euros will be released within the next few days with the
remaining money paid in the first quarter, they said.  German 10-year bund yields rose two basis points to 1.35
percent.  France ’s five-year government yields reached a record-
low 0.582 percent, and the rate on similar-maturity Austrian
securities also dropped to an all-time low.  “Investors are chasing yield, chasing pickup, chasing
duration,”  Peter Schaffrik , head of European rates strategy at
Royal Bank of Canada in London said in interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “The Pulse” with  Maryam Nemazee . Bonds from
nation’s like France and  Austria  “are the first natural choice
once you go beyond the bunds. It shows me that the tensions in
Italy, so far remain isolated.”  German bonds returned 4.1 percent this year through
yesterday, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Italy’s
securities gained 19 percent and Spain’s rose 5.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  