-- German Stocks Decline as Bernanke Warns on Fiscal Cliff
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2012-12-13T16:54:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/german-stocks-fall-on-warning-stimulus-won-t-offset-cliff.html
German stocks  fell after Federal
Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said that a plan to buy $45
billion a month of Treasury securities will not offset the
fiscal cliff, as lawmakers continue to debate a new budget.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  slid 2.7 percent as Germany’s biggest
lender said fourth-quarter profit will be hurt as it reduces
riskier assets and faces higher restructuring costs.  RWE AG (RWE) ,
Germany’s second-largest utility, fell 2.7 percent after Morgan
Stanley cut its rating on the stock.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  slid 0.4 percent to 7,581.98 at the close of
trading in Frankfurt, its biggest drop in a month. The gauge has
still  rallied 27 percent  from its low on June 5 as European
Central Bank policy makers agreed on an unlimited bond-purchase
program and the Federal Reserve announced a third round of
quantitative easing. The broader HDAX Index also fell 0.4
percent today.  “No progress in the discussion on the fiscal cliff has led
to no progress on the trading floor,” Roger Peeters, chief
executive officer at Close Brothers Seydler Research in
 Frankfurt , wrote in a note. “It seems more and more that the
politicians will not find a compromise before the beginning of
the Christmas holidays. This means the chance of further
improvements on the trading floor before the Christmas break is
limited too.”  The volume of shares changing hands on the DAX was 9
percent lower than the average of the last 30 days, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Fed Stimulus  U.S. stocks briefly rallied yesterday after the Fed said it
will buy $45 billion a month of Treasury securities starting in
January to help stimulate the economy. Asset buying will
continue “if the outlook for the labor market does not improve
substantially,” the Federal Open Market Committee said at the
conclusion of a two-day meeting in  Washington . The Fed already
purchases $40 billion a month of mortgage debt.  The rally faded as Bernanke said monetary stimulus cannot
offset the so-called fiscal cliff, the more than $600 billion
package of tax increases and spending cuts that will come into
force early next year if politicians fail to agree on a new
 federal budget .  Democrats and Republicans remain divided on taxes and
spending, as well as on whether an agreement should include an
increase in the debt limit and further programs to boost the
economy.  Deutsche Bank  Deutsche Bank fell 2.7 percent to 33.35 euros after saying
that fourth-quarter profit will be reduced “significantly” as
it cuts riskier assets and faces higher restructuring costs.  The costs include valuation adjustments and charges related
to global transaction banking in the Netherlands, the Frankfurt-
based lender said in a statement to the stock exchange today.  RWE fell 2.7 percent to 31.04 euros as Morgan Stanley cut
the stock to equal weight, the equivalent of hold, from
overweight, saying that management needs to cut costs, capital
expenditure and refocus its operations to improve the outlook.  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) , Germany’s largest steelmaker, slipped 1.1
percent to 17.64 euros as Exane BNP Paribas cut its forecast
price on the shares by 6 percent to 17 euros.  Merck KGaA (MRK) , the maker of the cancer drug Erbitux, lost 1.1
percent to 103.05 euros.  Lanxess AG (LXS) , the German chemical
manufacturer that joined the DAX in September, retreated 1.1
percent to 67.52 euros.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , the world’s second-biggest carmaker, gained
0.3 percent to 170.05 euros, its highest price in 20 years, as
its Porsche sports-car unit moved to shore up its industry-
leading profit margins by cutting the number of labor hours
required to produce a vehicle.  The 3,300 workers at its car plant in the Zuffenhausen
district of Stuttgart,  Germany , will work 34-hour weeks by mid-
2013, an hour less than at present, while producing the same
number of vehicles, Porsche said in a statement. The measures
are also intended to attract prospective employees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  