-- Goodell, Payton Discuss Coach’s Reinstatement Following Year Ban
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-12-13T17:31:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/goodell-payton-discuss-coach-s-reinstatement-following-year-ban.html
National Football League
Commissioner  Roger Goodell  has begun reinstatement talks with
suspended New Orleans Saints coach  Sean Payton  after an
arbitration ruling overturned player discipline in the team’s
bounty case.  Payton was suspended for the 2012 season after the league
said it discovered a performance pool in which Saints players
were rewarded financially for injuring opponents. He isn’t
eligible to return until after the  Super Bowl  in New Orleans on
Feb. 3.  Goodell told reporters yesterday following league meetings
in Dallas that he and Payton had started discussions and that no
decision had been made regarding whether the coach will be
allowed to return to the team at an earlier date.  “We are in the early stages,” Goodell said. “We are
starting to talk about it.”  Paul Tagliabue, Goodell’s predecessor as commissioner who
was asked to hear an appeal of player punishments, vacated
suspensions of four current and former Saints in the bounty
program two days ago. While Tagliabue concluded that three of
the players engaged in detrimental conduct, he placed the onus
on the Saints’ front office and coaches for allowing the program
to continue and for obstructing the NFL’s investigation.  “This entire case has been contaminated by the coaches and
others in the Saints’ organization,” Tagliabue said in a
statement explaining his ruling, which had no bearing on coach
suspensions.  Payton, 48, is lobbying to return to the team immediately
after the end of the regular season, ESPN reported today citing
an identified person close to the coach. The Saints (5-8) have
lost three consecutive games and probably won’t make the
playoffs for the first time since 2008.  Saints General Manager Mickey Loomis already served an
eight-game suspension, and assistant  Joe Vitt  is serving as
interim coach after returning from a six-game ban. Former New
Orleans defensive coordinator  Gregg Williams  is suspended
indefinitely.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  