-- Google, Belgian Newspapers Settle Copyright Link Dispute
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2012-12-13T13:23:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/google-belgian-newspapers-settle-copyright-dispute-over-links.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  reached a deal with
Belgian newspaper publishers, resolving a six-year copyright
battle that had blocked the owner of the world’s most-used
search engine from publishing links to local newspapers.  “We turn the page, we end the litigation and we’re
starting afresh with a business partnership,” Thierry Geerts,
managing director of Google Belgium, told reporters on a
conference call today. “That’s the way we would like to work
with publishers all over the world, that we can sit together and
think together about how we can embrace the digital future.”  The agreement was announced in a Google  blog post 
yesterday. Under the accord, Google will pay the publishers’
legal fees, said Geerts, who declined to give an amount. Google
will not pay to include any of the Belgian content.  Google last year lost an appeal against a 2007 Belgian
court ruling that forced the Mountain View, California-based
company to remove links and snippets of articles from French-
and German-language Belgian newspapers from Google.com and
Google.be. Google faced a daily fine of 25,000 euros ($32,700)
for any delay in implementing the judgment.  Copiepresse, a Belgian group defending newspapers’
copyrights in the litigation, argued that the snippets generated
revenue for the search engine and that publishers should be paid
for the content. Copiepresse had a second suit pending that
sought as much as 49.1 million euros for the period in which the
newspapers’ content was visible on Google News.  Google Dialogue  Margaret Boribon, the secretary-general of Copiepresse,
said the group was satisfied “to have been able to come to an
accord that will put an end to all the proceedings.”  Among the French-language newspapers affected by the
lawsuits were La Libre Belgique and Le Soir.  “We could never have come to this result if we had not
sued and been successful in our cases,” Philippe Nothomb, head
of legal affairs of Rossel et Cie., which owns Le Soir, said in
an interview.  Six years ago, when the litigation started, “the kind of
dialogue we have now with Google was not yet possible,” said
Nothomb. Google and the publishers said they each maintain their
views on how to interpret copyright law and decided to “agree
to disagree” to move forward.  Google said “it is important to note” that it is not
paying Belgian publishers or authors to include their content in
its services. The company said it will work with Belgian French-
language newspapers “on a broad range of business
initiatives,” including the promotion of both Google’s and the
publishers’ services and increasing accessibility to the
newspapers’ content.  “This agreement comes at an important moment, in the midst
of a debate how best the newspaper industry should adapt to the
new digital age,” Google’s Geerts said in the blog post.
“Instead of continuing to argue over legal interpretations, we
have agreed on the need to set aside past grievances in favor of
collaboration.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  