-- Greenberg Traurig, Skadden, Shearman: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-12-13T12:20:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/greenberg-traurig-skadden-shearman-business-of-law.html
These are hectic days for trusts and
estates lawyers, as they make house calls, work nights and fly
overseas to meet rich clients before Bush era tax cuts expire.  “To say we’re busy is the understatement of the year,”
said  Martin Kalb , chairman of the global tax group at  Greenberg
Traurig  LLP. “I’ve been practicing for 35 years, and I’ve never
seen it like this.”  Unless Congress and President  Barack Obama  decide
otherwise, top rates for estate and gift taxes will rise to 55
percent from 35 percent on Jan. 1, with lifetime exemptions
falling to $1 million per person from $5.12 million.  For bequests to non-spouses, an estate valued at less than
$5 million won’t be taxed if the owner dies this year. Next
year, the amount greater than $1 million will be taxed, as
things stand now. Money and property in any amount left to a
surviving spouse isn’t taxed.  Obama and House Speaker  John Boehner  have been meeting
regularly in an effort to reach a compromise on taxes.  The president has repeatedly vowed he will insist on
raising rates on the wealthy. As a result, many are scrambling
to make gifts, either outright or through trusts, to spouses,
children, grandchildren and others before the year ends.  “On Jan. 1 the coach will turn into a pumpkin,” said
Gideon Rothschild of  New York ’s Moses & Singer LLP  Many people with more than $10 million of net worth had a
wait-and-see attitude before the Nov. 6 election, because they
thought  Mitt Romney  was likely to become president, said Dennis Belcher, a partner at McGuireWoods LLP in Richmond, Virginia.  “We are in effect squeezing two years of work into two
months, notwithstanding the fact that we had contacted people
and let them know what was going on,” Belcher said.  Those who waited may find it hard to hire lawyers because
trust creation is time-intensive, involving counseling on their
goals and finances, and not just generating documents.  Edward Koren, a partner at Holland & Knight LLP in Tampa,
 Florida , said in a telephone interview that three people who he
didn’t know called him last week.  “I turned them all down,” he said. “I have to tolerate a
failure to act by ongoing clients but not someone who calls out
of the blue.”  Robert Lawrence of Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft LLP, said,
“We’re looking for relationships. This isn’t a one-off thing. A
private client is unique because the lawyer becomes a counselor
to the family.”  For more, click here.  Deals  Cleary, Skadden, Akin, Weil on Rosneft Deal With TNK-BP  OAO Rosneft,  Russia ’s biggest oil producer, moved closer to
its $55 billion acquisition of the TNK-BP oil venture, signing a
binding agreement to buy out  BP Plc (BP/) ’s billionaire partners.  The consortium Alfa-Access-Renova (AAR), which represents
the billionaires, will get $28 billion in cash on closing, Chief
Executive Officer  Stan Polovets  said by phone. The deal is set
to close in the first half of 2013, Rosneft and AAR said
yesterday in a joint e-mailed statement.  Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP  is advising Rosneft on
the AAR part of the Rosneft/TNK-BP transaction as well as the BP
part, the firm said. The core Cleary Gottlieb team includes
partners Russell Pollack and Daniel Braverman and associate
Gabriele Antonazzo, who will be partner Jan. 1, on the corporate
aspects. Partner Antoine Winckler is advising on antitrust
matters, and partner Murat Akuyev on Russian law matters.  Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP is representing the
consortium, the firm said. The Skadden team executing the sale
was led by mergers and acquisitions partners Michal Berkner,
Scott Simpson, Dmitri Kovalenko and Linda Davies. The banking
aspects were advised on by partner Mark Darley; tax by partner
Tim Sanders; and disputes by partner David Kavanagh. Partner
Ingrid Vandenborre assisted from Brussels. Other corporate
partners involved included Clive Rough.  Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP is advising longstanding
client Renova, a private business group, as a member of AAR, the
firm said.  The Akin Gump team advising Renova in relation to corporate
and other aspects of the transaction is led by Moscow corporate
and tax partner Ilya Rybalkin as well as London corporate
partner Steven Blakeley.  Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP advised a venture between  Access
Industries  and Renova. Weil’s team was led by London private
equity partner Marco Compagnoni and assisted by Simon Lyell.  The acquisition, the biggest in Russian history, will vault
state-run Rosneft past Petrochina Co. to make it the largest
publicly traded oil producer with more than 4 million barrels a
day, based on third-quarter results.  Rosneft reached a final accord last month to buy BP’s half
of the 50:50 venture for $17 billion in cash and a 12.8 percent
stake in the Russian oil producer, also set to close in
mid-2013. BP also agreed to buy Rosneft stock from the
government.  BP said in June it was looking to sell its TNK-BP stake,
dissolving a fractious decade-long relationship with AAR, which
represents the interests of  Mikhail Fridman ,  German Khan ,  Viktor
Vekselberg  and Len Blavatnik. A shareholder battle in 2008 over
control led to the ouster of Bob Dudley, now BP’s CEO, as head
of TNK-BP. Last year, a planned alliance between the U.K.
explorer and Rosneft collapsed under a legal challenge from AAR,
which said the venture had the right to pursue new opportunities
for BP in Russia.  For more, click here.  Shearman Advises Nasdaq on Thomson Reuters Services Units  Shearman & Sterling LLP advised  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  on
its agreement to buy  Thomson Reuters Corp. (TRI)  units that provide
investor and public relations and multimedia services for $390
million in cash as the second-largest U.S. equity exchange seeks
to diversify.  Allen & Overy  represents  Thomson Reuters , with
Peter Harwich acting as the lead partner.  The Shearman & Sterling team included partners John Marzulli and Guillaume Isautier, mergers and acquisitions;
Doreen Lilienfeld, executive compensation and employee benefits;
Richard Hsu, intellectual property transactions; Lisa Brill,
real estate; and Larry Bambino, tax.  The deal is expected to close in the first half of 2013 and
the divisions will be integrated into Nasdaq OMX’s Corporate
Solutions business, the New York-based exchange said in a
statement yesterday. The acquisition will probably add to
earnings in the first 12 months, excluding transaction-related
costs, Nasdaq OMX said.  For more, click here.  Firm News  Boutique Greenlee Sullivan Joins Lathrop & Gage in Colorado  Colorado intellectual property boutique law firm Greenlee
Sullivan PC’s is joining Lathrop & Gage LLP on Jan. 1, the two
firms announced yesterday.  Greenlee Sullivan, now in its 25th year, provides IP
prosecution, strategic analysis, due diligence and transaction
counsel to high-tech clients, including start-ups, research
universities and corporations.  Joining Lathrop & Gage are partners Sally Sullivan, Stephen
Barone, Steven Penner, Susan Doughty and  Gary Chapman , as well
as two associates, three patent agents and support staff. They
will move into Lathrop & Gage’s Boulder office, led by Curtis
Vock.  Lathrop & Gage’s IP practice now has 88 attorneys and
professionals, with 34 practicing in the firm’s two Colorado
offices.  The Greenlee Sullivan team will work with Lathrop & Gage’s
Boston office, opened in January, to expand the firm’s life
sciences practice nationwide.  Lathrop & Gage has 320 attorneys in 11 U.S. offices.  Moves  Crowell & Moring Hires Manatt Phelps Former Chairman Cole  Crowell & Moring LLP announced that Christopher A. Cole,
former advertising litigation practice chairman at Manatt,
Phelps & Phillips LLP, has joined the firm as a partner in the
advertising and product risk management group in  Washington .
Cole will co-head the group with Crowell & Moring partner
Bridget E. Calhoun.  Cole has 20 years of experience advising clients on matters
relating to advertising and media controversies, unfair
competition, and green marketing claims, as well as compliance
and risk prevention. He also handles the defense of class action
litigation as it relates to false advertising and defends
clients in federal enforcement proceedings before the Federal
Trade Commission, state attorneys general, and other regulatory
bodies, the firm said.  Crowell & Moring has approximately 500 lawyers at 11 U.S.
and international offices.  Tax Partner Adam Joins Foley in Silicon Valley  Foley & Lardner LLP announced that Frederic J. Adam joined
the firm’s tax and individual planning practice as a partner in
its Silicon Valley office. Prior to joining Foley, Adam was a
tax partner in the international corporate tax group of KPMG
LLP.  Adam has more than 18 years of experience handling
international tax matters for companies in a variety of
industries including private equity, financial services, retail,
pharmaceutical and life sciences. He has advised corporations
and individuals on high-level international inbound and outbound
tax planning and the various tax issues involved with mergers
and acquisitions, post transaction integration services, the
firm said.  Foley & Lardner has approximately 900 attorneys in 21
offices in the U.S.,  Europe  and  Asia .  Corporate Finance Partner Joins Patton Boggs in New York  Patton Boggs LLP hired Shawn Creedon, a corporate finance
lawyer with almost 20 years of experience, as a partner in the
firm’s corporate finance practice group in New York. He joins
Patton Boggs from Silver Point Capital LP, where he was a senior
analyst.  Creedon has experience with  investment management  and
financial analysis, tax planning, accounting and auditing
matters. He handles middle-market finance transactions, and has
years of experience as manager of a nine-figure middle market
debt portfolio, the firm said. He has represented lenders and
borrowers in negotiating and documenting senior secured and
unsecured credit facilities, including unitranche and bifurcated
collateral structures, and in restructuring transactions
associated with those financings. He has also represented global
mezzanine lenders in mezzanine financings, ranging from $20mm to
$300mm, and has served on the boards of nearly a dozen firms in
his role as a senior investment analyst, according to a firm
statement.  Patton Boggs has more than 600 lawyers at nine offices in
the U.S. and  Middle East .  Litigation  Level Global Co-Founder’s Lawyer Says Prosecution Witness Lied  A defense lawyer for the Level Global Investors LP co-
founder Anthony Chiasson told jurors the key government
informant against his client is a liar whose testimony wasn’t
supported by the evidence.  Steptoe & Johnson LLP partner  Reid Weingarten , the
attorney, argued that Spyridon “Sam” Adondakis, who once
served as an analyst for Chiasson, lied to the  fund manager , hid
the fact that he was giving the portfolio manager nonpublic
information and continued to lie on the witness stand when he
testified for the prosecution.  “Sam Adondakis is a liar,” Weingarten said yesterday in
his closing arguments. “Sam Adondakis will lie when it is in
his interest. No doubt. You can’t get around that.”  Chiasson is on trial with former Diamondback Capital
Management LLC portfolio manager  Todd Newman , accused of reaping
more than $70 million on trades based on illicit tips provided
to him by analysts who worked for them. Both pleaded not guilty.  The case is U.S. v. Newman, 1:12-cr-00121, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 