-- Greek Debt-Relief Debate Flares After Release of Fresh Aid
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i   a n d   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2012-12-13T12:27:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/greek-debt-relief-debate-flares-after-release-of-fresh-aid.html
European governments geared up to
provide extra aid or debt relief for  Greece  after releasing the
country’s first loan payment in six months, signaling renewed
battles over how to stabilize the euro economy.  Euro-area finance ministers approved the payout of 49.1
billion euros ($64 billion) of loans through March and committed
to  “additional measures”  in case Greece’s debt reduction veers
off track.  While another cut in bailout-loan rates and an increase in
infrastructure funding would top the list of extra measures, the
policy makers hinted that outright debt relief -- still a taboo
topic in creditor countries led by  Germany  -- would be on the
table as well.  “Other tools are possible and it doesn’t make any sense to
be more precise on these possible tools,” Luxembourg Prime
Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  told reporters after chairing the
meeting on the Greek package in Brussels.  Today’s meeting concluded what European Union Economic and
Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  called an “odyssey”
that started with two Greek elections in the first half of the
year and concerns that popular opposition to bailout terms would
force Greece out of the euro.  Greece will get 34.3 billion euros in coming days, covering
16 billion euros for bank recapitalization, 7 billion euros for
the  government’s budget  and 11.3 billion euros to finance a bond
buyback that was used to retire debt.  Another 14.8 billion euros will flow in the first quarter
of 2013 as long as Greece meets conditions to be agreed on with
creditors. That sum consists of 7.2 billion euros for  bank
recapitalization  in January, plus three monthly tranches for the
budget.  Debt Reduction  All told, the program will trim Greece’s debt to 128
percent of gross domestic product by 2020, still above a target
of 124 percent set by euro creditors and the  International
Monetary Fund , according to documents released by the German
Finance Ministry yesterday.  Lower loan rates and more European structural subsidies
would make up 2.7 percentage points of the difference, leaving a
need for “additional contingency measures” of 1.4 percentage
points, according to a footnote in the German documents.  IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde , less constrained
by German political sensitivities in the run-up to a September
2013 election, said debt forgiveness is an explicit part of the
understanding.  In a statement from  Washington , Lagarde welcomed the euro
governments’ “assurances to provide additional debt relief if
necessary and provided Greece has achieved a primary budget
balance in 2013.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Brussels at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net ;
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  