-- Guam Beats Puerto Rico in Contest of Getaway Debts: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-12-13T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/guam-beats-puerto-rico-in-contest-of-getaway-debts-muni-credit.html
Municipal investors looking for a
getaway from the lowest yields in a generation are favoring Guam
and the  U.S. Virgin Islands  over  Puerto Rico  as their
destination of choice.  Issuers from Guam, the U.S. island about 4,000 miles (6,436
kilometers) west of  Hawaii , have gained 11 percent this year,
more than any state or territory, Barclays Plc data show. The
Virgin Islands have earned 10 percent. Guam exceeds the return
on Puerto Rico debt by the most since at least 2001. It is also
beating the $3.7 trillion municipal market by the most in more
than a decade and for the fourth straight year.  The  extra yield  on Puerto Rico securities is close to the
highest since February amid concern that the commonwealth will
struggle to improve its pension system, which has a funding
ratio lower than all 50 states. Meanwhile,  Guam  has gained from
renewed hotel building and the Virgin Islands from  Diageo Plc (DGE) 
starting to produce rum there for U.S. consumers.  “Guam and the Virgin Islands were both going to benefit
from the noise getting worse in Puerto Rico,” said Robert DiMella, co-head of MacKay Municipal Managers, which oversees
$6.8 billion of local debt. The firm’s  New York   fund  has about
11 percent of its holdings in Guam and beat 96 percent of its
peers the past three months, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Loaded Up  Puerto Rico’s debt per capita is 10 times the U.S. average
and its pension system has assets equaling 6.8 percent of
estimated payments, the weakest ratio in the nation. Republican
Governor  Luis Fortuno , who cut payrolls by 17 percent to reduce
deficits, lost his re-election bid in November to Alejandro Garcia Padilla, the Popular Democratic Party candidate.  The island’s fiscal woes have caused Puerto Rico bonds to
trail a  rally  in lower-quality debt, even as investors seek the
higher yields of riskier assets with muni  interest rates  at  47-
year lows . The yield gap on the territory’s revenue-backed
securities has grown 50 percent since March. Bonds from Puerto 
Rico have earned 6.5 percent this year, Barclays data show.  As DiMella reduced Puerto Rico securities, he added debt 
such as Guam general-obligations, which have a rating of B+ 
from  Standard & Poor’s , four steps below investment grade.   Risk-Reward  A Guam Power Authority issue in October showed the extra
return available. The offer included bonds maturing in 2034 and
yielding 4.35 percent, about 1.7 percentage points above
benchmarks of the same maturity, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. S&P graded that segment BBB, two steps above junk.  “People are looking for where performance can come from,
and it comes from buying the higher-yielding bonds and the
higher-duration bonds,” said Tom Weyl, director of municipal
research at Barclays in New York.  The market for state and city debt has earned 7.7 percent
this year, Barclays data show. Yields on top-rated munis due in
10 years climbed about 0.05 percentage point yesterday to a
three-week high of  1.46 percent , according to a Bloomberg index.  Guam’s index has an average rating three levels below the
broader market’s grade, and the Virgin Islands index is five
steps lower.  The two territories have benefitted from the relative
scarcity of their debt. Puerto Rico and its agencies have sold
about $16.8 billion over the past two years, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That compares with $775 million from Guam and
$441 million from the Virgin Islands.  Island Count  Puerto Rico has a population of about 3.7 million, compared
with about 160,000 for Guam and 106,000 for the Virgin Islands,
U.S. Census Bureau data show.  Investing in Puerto Rico is “quite different just because
of the size of our economies, and we are a very active issuer,”
Juan Carlos Batlle, president of the Government Development Bank
for Puerto Rico, the commonwealth’s financing arm, said in an
interview.  Tourism represents about 30 percent of Guam’s economy,
according to Joe Arnett, treasurer of Guam’s Chamber of
Commerce. The territory had about 1.3 million visitors in the
2012 fiscal year, 100,000 more than two years earlier, according
to the Guam Visitors Bureau.  The increase has encouraged  Dusit Thani Pcl (DTC) , a Thai hotel
operator, to take on management of the 417-room  Dusit Thani
Guam , set to open next year.  The U.S. Virgin Islands, purchased from  Denmark  for $25
million in gold in 1917, relies 70 percent on tourism for its
economy, said Donna Christensen, the territory’s congressional
delegate, in a telephone interview from  Washington . Its other
major business activity is rum production, she said.  Captain Arrives  That includes a distillery for Captain Morgan that left
Puerto Rico for St. Croix beginning this year, Christensen said.
The Virgin Islands Public Finance Authority  sold $250 million  in
2009 to help Diageo, which is based in  London , finance the rum
venture.  The islands aren’t without their fiscal strains. A 350,000-
barrel-a-day Hovensa LLC refinery, a partnership of  Hess Corp. (HES) 
and  Petroleos de Venezuela SA , closed on the Virgin Islands in
February. The enterprise had been the area’s biggest private
employer and the departure resulted in what Christensen called
“some very challenging times.”  Relying on tourism leaves both Guam and the Virgin Islands
vulnerable to swings in the economy and weather, which justifies
their lower ratings, according to S&P. The earthquake and
tsunami in  Japan  last year limited growth in Guam’s tourism
revenue, Arnett said.  Yet investors such as MacKay’s DiMella and Franklin
Advisers’ Rafael Costas are still betting on the islands’
essential-service debt.  “They’re small islands without a whole lot of spectacular
growth, but they need water and electricity like everybody
else,” said Costas, co-director of munis at  San Mateo ,
California-based Franklin, which oversees $85 billion of local
debt. “They finance it and they make good on it -- they’ll just
never be AA credits.”  Following is a pending sale:  INDIANA FINANCE AUTHORITY plans to issue about $1.3 billion
in short-term debt as soon as today, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Proceeds will go toward a fertilizer project, for
which the main backers are Pakistan-based Fatima Fertilizer Ltd.
and Fazal Cloth Mills Ltd., according to offering documents.
(Added Dec. 13)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  