-- Michigan Lawmakers Approve New Emergency Manager Law
-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2012-12-14T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/michigan-lawmakers-approve-new-emergency-manager-law.html
Michigan ’s Senate approved a law to
give financially distressed cities and school districts a choice
of bankruptcy or a state-appointed emergency manager with power
to cancel union contracts.  The bill, which goes to Republican Governor  Rick Snyder  for
his signature, would replace a similar 2011 measure voters
repealed Nov. 6. Opponents who led that effort called the law,
Public Act 4, undemocratic and an attempt to bust unions.  The new measure will retain the state’s power to declare
financial emergencies, while giving local governments the
options of a consent agreement similar to Detroit’s, entering
mediation with creditors, getting an emergency manager or filing
for Chapter 9 bankruptcy protection.  “What we’re doing is providing alternatives,” Republican
Senator Phil Pavlov of St. Clair said yesterday before the vote.  The measure will take effect 90 days after the legislature
adjourns in Lansing, the capital, as it is expected to this
month. That means the law can’t solve  Detroit ’s financial
crisis, which threatens payless paydays, dismissals and
bankruptcy.  Detroit avoided state takeover in April with an agreement
to rein in spending. State Treasurer Andy Dillon said this week
he would begin a new audit of the city, which he said isn’t
moving fast enough to curb a deficit projected to hit $400
million by June. The review may lead to an emergency manager
under a 1990 law that grants less power than the now-defunct
2011 version.  Persistent Struggle  The repeal of Public Act 4 left the state without clout to
rescue cities and schools, according to Snyder, who championed
the law.  “Just because the emergency manager law was defeated
doesn’t mean the problem went away,” Republican Senator John Pappageorge of Troy said today.  While the new bill would reinstate broad powers for
emergency managers, local officials could stop certain of their
decisions or develop alternate solutions that produce equal
savings.  It also permits local officials to ask the governor to
remove emergency managers within the first year, or dismiss them
after a year with a two-thirds vote of a governing body such as
a city council.  Democratic Senator Bert Johnson of  Highland Park  said the
measure thwarts the will of people who voted to repeal Public
Act 4.  “We do not need a dictator from Lansing,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Christoff in Lansing at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  