-- Michigan Official: Union-Dues Ban Spares State Workers
-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f   a n d   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2012-12-13T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/michigan-official-union-dues-ban-spares-state-workers.html
More than two-thirds of  Michigan 
state employees won’t be covered by laws that prohibit paying
union dues as a condition of employment, according to an
official who controls worker rules and a union lawyer.  The so-called right-to-work laws passed and signed Dec. 11
don’t supersede the Michigan Civil Service Commission’s
authority, said commissioner Robert Swanson. Of the state’s
49,000 workers, about 35,000 would be exempt, according to the
commission’s annual report.  “Our position is the right-to-work laws don’t apply to
unionized state employees,” said lawyer Georgi-Ann Bargamian,
assistant to Cindy Estrada, a United Auto Workers vice president
in  Detroit . The UAW represents about 17,000 state employees.  The assertion was part of the fallout from the law’s
enactment, which labor leaders called a Republican attempt to
bust unions and supporters called a victory for liberty and
economic growth. Michigan became the 24th state to pass such a
measure, approving one for public workers and one for private.
Last year, about 17.5 percent of the state’s 3.8 million workers
belonged to unions, according to the U.S. Department of Labor.  Michigan’s constitution gives the Civil Service Commission
power over employees’ compensation and conditions. The new laws
don’t nullify that, said Swanson, a commissioner appointed by
former Democratic Governor Jennifer Granholm.  “That’s my interpretation,” he said in a telephone
interview.  Governor’s Dissent  Swanson said only the commission could vote to free state
workers from paying union dues. Swanson and two other
commissioners were appointed by Granholm. The fourth was
appointed by Republican Governor  Rick Snyder , whose endorsement
of the legislation after initially taking a neutral stance
helped trigger the laws’ passage.  “Our position is the freedom-to-work legislation covers
all public employees in Michigan,” said Sara Wurfel, a
spokeswoman for Snyder. “To the extent there are legal issues
concerning whether or not the legislation covers state
employees, those will be resolved in the course of time as the
legislation is implemented and contracts come up for
renegotiation.”  The new laws exempt police and firefighters. Snyder said
they are treated differently because of a separate law that
requires binding arbitration to settle their labor disputes,
rather than strikes or other actions.  The measures won’t take effect until 90 days after the end
of the legislative term, typically around Dec. 30. They won’t
affect employees under existing contracts. The state workers’
contract runs through December 2013.  New Attraction  Snyder signed the laws Dec. 11 over protests by thousands
at the Capitol in Lansing, spurring vows of revenge by
Democrats.  Businesses already are giving Michigan a new look as a
place to invest, said Mike Finney, president and chief executive
of the Michigan Economic Development Corporation. He said site
selectors who recruit businesses were pleased.  “In the last three or four days, and in the last 24 hours,
they said, ‘Wow, we think this will be favorable news to share
with our clients,’” Finney said.  Neighboring  Indiana  enacted a right-to-work law in
February, and it became an argument for supporters of Michigan’s
version. Snyder said Indiana has become a hotbed of economic
activity, and he wanted the same.  Zero Sum  A study by the  Economic Policy Institute , a Washington-
based nonprofit policy research organization that says it gets
29 percent of its funding from unions, argued that it’s too
early to conclude the law has influenced corporate decisions to
move to Indiana.  The report questions claims by the Indiana Economic
Development Corporation that the law motivated four companies to
do business in the state, saying that all were already based
there. The report also said four companies left Indiana since
the law was adopted.  “To the extent that Indiana has seen job growth, it likely
reflects national trends rather than state statute,” the report
concludes.  Michigan Democrats and union allies said they would use the
issue against Republicans, whom they accused of ramming the
bills through the legislature without public hearings.  Republicans’ 64-46 advantage in the  House of
Representatives  will shrink to 59-51 in January. Republicans
will continue to hold a 26-12 advantage in the Senate.  “More Democrats are coming in the new session, and in two
more years, we’ll get a few more to overturn it -- that’s going
to be our goal,” said Joe Sukkar, 44, a millwright from Shelby
Township in suburban Detroit. He was among an estimated 11,000
who demonstrated at the Capitol on Dec. 11.  His union, the Michigan Regional Council of Carpenters and
Millwrights, endorsed Snyder in the 2010 campaign.  Mike Jackson , who heads the 15,000-member organization,
said Snyder broke a verbal commitment to prevent the bill from
reaching his desk.  “Where I grew up, that’s a lie,” Jackson said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Christoff in Lansing at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net ;
Esmé E. Deprez in  New York  at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  