-- Microsoft Rankles Advertisers With Web User-Privacy Plan
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2012-12-13T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/microsoft-rankles-advertisers-with-web-user-privacy-plan.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  is sticking with a
decision to make it harder to track users’ online behavior,
earning plaudits from privacy groups while drawing fire from the
advertisers its money-losing Web unit needs most.  After months of criticism that the new tools cut off
valuable customer-targeting information, the software maker has
no plans to change the automatic setting in its newest Internet
Explorer browser that tells websites not to track user behavior,
General Counsel Brad Smith said in an interview.  “We crossed the Rubicon and are completely comfortable
being on the other side of the river,” he said. “We have no
intention of going back and have no intention of engaging in
discussion on that possibility.” Smith will provide an update
on the company’s position today in a  blog posting .  The so-called Do Not Track feature has been at the center
of privacy debates over browsing data and how websites and
marketers use it to make money. For Microsoft and the
advertisers, at stake is a $31.7 billion U.S. Internet ad market
that  grew  22 percent in 2011, according to the Interactive
Advertising Bureau, much of it generated by ads tailored to user
behavior.  Now Microsoft, whose banner advertising business was
already losing market share to Facebook Inc. and Google Inc., is
being criticized by trade groups and facing opposition from
advertisers and even partners like  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) , who say they
will ignore privacy signals transmitted by Internet Explorer 10.  ‘Achilles Heel’  “Advertisers have invested a lot in their ad platforms and
the Achilles heel is the consumers aren’t aware that their data
is being bought and sold,” said  Anthony Mullen , an analyst at
Forrester Research Inc. “That being exposed, which is what this
Microsoft initiative does, is healthy, but I can see why the ad
industry is nervous.”  Microsoft wants to engage in talks with advertisers and
standards bodies to assuage some concerns, Smith said.  In May, Microsoft surprised privacy advocates and some of
its own managers by saying its Internet Explorer 10 browser, the
version included in the new Windows 8, would automatically turn
on a signal that tells advertisers not to follow user behavior.
Other browsers, by contrast, have the Do Not Track signal turned
off and give users the option to turn it on. In Explorer, users
can choose to change the setting to “off” to enable tracking.  Default Setting  Association of National Advertisers President and CEO Bob Liodice said his group opposes the decision to turn on the
signal by default, even after Microsoft made some changes that
make the setting clearer to users. The group, whose board
includes members from  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , Wal-Mart Stores Inc.,
Unilever NV and  Intel Corp. (INTC) , has written Microsoft to register
its opposition.  In an interview, Liodice said Microsoft has expressed a
willingness to talk to advertisers, and “they seem amenable to
compromise.”  Microsoft’s Smith said the company is willing to discuss
tweaks to how it describes the setting to users, and how easy it
is for users to alter. He also wants the group working on Do Not
Track to set up an easy way for trusted advertisers to gain user
consent to be followed.  For Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft, the world’s
largest software maker, the kerfuffle is the latest challenge to
its ad business. The company wrote down $6.2 billion from the
unit in the quarter that ended June 30, and Microsoft’s U.S.
display business is forecast to grow 13 percent this year, while
the total U.S. market for display ads expands by more than 20
percent, according to data from EMarketer Inc.  Limited Use  For now, a lot of the debate over Do Not Track is just
saber-rattling. Internet Explorer 10 was released on Oct. 26
with the newest Windows software, so it’s not in use on many
systems yet. Advertisers are unlikely to pull listings from
Microsoft’s websites in retaliation if the ads make money, said
Clark Fredricksen, a vice president at EMarketer.  Still, advertising industry groups are concerned that
Microsoft may crimp future ad-spending growth by creating a
larger group of Web users who object to being tracked.  Almost all sites collect browsing data and track Web
surfers’ habits to decide which ads to show consumers, and use
the demographic information to persuade advertisers to buy
space. Without this information, ads would be far less
effective, making it harder to generate the ad revenue that
Liodice said pays for much of the content on the Internet.  Privacy Complaints  In response to a 2007 complaint by privacy groups such as
the Electronic Frontier Foundation and the Consumer Federation
of America about the tracking and selling of private user data,
the U.S. Federal Trade Commission began examining the idea of a
Do Not Track list. Do Not Track now works by having a browser
send a signal to websites, stating that the user doesn’t want
his or her behavior to be monitored. As the feature was
envisioned, advertisers would voluntarily comply.  All the major browser makers -- Microsoft,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and
Mozilla Corp. -- have incorporated Do Not Track signals into
their products. Google and Mozilla have the setting turned off
as a default, requiring users to actively turn it on to block
tracking.  For now it’s not even clear how advertisers wanting to
comply with Do Not Track should behave. A World Wide Web
Consortium working group tasked with devising a standard for Do
Not Track has labored for about 18 months without coming to an
agreement.  Surprise Decision  Microsoft’s move was surprising to people both inside and
outside the company. The Internet Explorer team made the
decision over the objections of some of Microsoft’s advertising
officials, said people familiar with the matter, who asked not
to be named because the decision was confidential.  Before the announcement, even Microsoft officials on the Do
No Track working group had raised questions about whether it
made sense to turn the signal on by default, said Jonathan Mayer, a member of the group and a Stanford University graduate
student who is one of the researchers who came up with the
initial idea for the standard.  The Internet Explorer group itself, though, decided that
starting with the setting activated was the best way to protect
consumers.  “Seventy-five percent of the consumers we surveyed in the
U.S. and  Europe  said they wanted DNT on by default,”
Microsoft’s Smith wrote in an October blog post.  Google Challenge  Microsoft may also be aiming to use privacy as a stick to
beat rival Google with, Mayer said. Google’s Chrome browser has
 gained  share, rising to 15 percent of the market last month from
10 percent at the end of 2010, according to Net Applications.
Internet Explorer fell to 48 percent from 57 percent. Google is
also poised to seize the No. 1 spot in the display-ad market
this year from Facebook, EMarketer forecasts.  Still, it’s not clear whether the more consumer-oriented
approach will win Microsoft any Chrome users, and it has already
alienated one group -- big advertisers.  In its October  letter  to Microsoft, Liodice’s Association
of National Advertisers said the default Do Not Track setting
will hurt advertising, reduce the amount of Internet content
supported by those ads and ultimately “undermine American
innovation and leadership in the Internet economy.”  Both that association and the Digital Advertising Alliance
are recommending advertisers ignore Do Not Track signals coming
from Internet Explorer 10. Yahoo, the biggest U.S. Web portal
and Microsoft’s partner in search, has said it will ignore the
setting.  Consumer Information  “The Internet is funded by advertisers,” Liodice said.
“The ability to reach our consumers requires that we absorb
information from them.”  And even if Microsoft and the advertisers can make peace,
Do Not Track still faces major challenges. Every Wednesday at 9
a.m. San Francisco time, Mayer spends 90 minutes on a conference
call with other members of the workgroup and any advertisers or
industry members that want to join. There’s been no progress
toward agreeing on a standard to guide advertisers on how to
abide by Do Not Track, he said.  “Everything that could be said has been said,” he said.
“There are fundamental differences of opinion.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at   dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  