-- India Acts to Prevent Erroneous Trades After Stock Rout Unnerved
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2012-12-13T18:34:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/india-acts-to-prevent-erroneous-trades-after-stock-rout-unnerved.html
India ’s  stock regulator  issued new
guidelines aimed at preventing flawed orders and uncontrolled
trades after a brokerage mistake wiped 16 percent off the S&P
CNX Nifty Index in eight seconds in October.  Any order exceeding 100 million rupees ($1.8 million) in
value shouldn’t be accepted by stock exchanges for execution in
the normal market, the  Securities and Exchange Board of India 
said in a  statement  posted on its website yesterday. The
restriction applies to orders for stocks, exchange-traded funds,
index futures and equity futures.  The changes come after  Emkay Global Financial Services Ltd. (EMKAY) 
entered 6.5 billion rupees of orders on behalf of an
institutional client on Oct. 5, spurring a plunge in the  Nifty (NIFTY) 
index that it later rebounded from. Trading in the 50-stock
gauge and some companies stopped for 15 minutes that day in
 Mumbai , and Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said the
government would investigate the tumble. Bank of  New York  Mellon
Corp.’s  index  of Indian American depositary receipts fell 1.3
percent by 1:34 p.m. in New York.  “The recent incidents of erroneous orders have brought to
fore certain areas that require additional risk control measures
to mitigate disruption of trading,” the regulator said in the
statement.  The Nifty slump came about two months after market maker
 Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG)  bombarded U.S. exchanges with mistaken
orders in the first few minutes of trading, while high-frequency
orders worsened the so-called flash crash of May 2010, which
briefly wiped $862 billion from American stocks. A surge in
trades of about 12 Australian equities two weeks after the Nifty
incident spurred inquiries from that nation’s market regulator.  Levy Penalties  Under the new guidelines, which will be implemented in
phases, stock brokers must also put in place a system to ensure
that the total value of all unexecuted orders placed from their
terminals is below a threshold limit.  Stock exchanges  can levy
penalties against brokers who fail to implement the checks,
according to the statement.  The regulator tightened the initial price threshold of so-
called “dynamic price bands,” which prevent orders that are
placed beyond the price limits set by the exchanges from being
accepted. The ranges will be set at 10 percent of the previous
closing price for stock and index futures and equities for which
derivatives products are available. Exchanges can relax the
price bands in increments of 5 percent in the case of a market
event, according to yesterday’s statement.  ‘Net Benefit’  “It could be good for investor confidence if it means the
risk of another flash crash is reduced,” Michael Gayed, chief
investment strategist at Pension Partners LLC and  fund manager 
at the ATAC Inflation Rotation Fund, which invests in emerging-
market exchange-traded funds, said by phone in New York. “It’s
more about having a smoother operating system through which
money can flow in those shares. It’s more a net benefit than
negative.”  Stock brokers will be put in so-called risk-reduction mode
when 90 percent of their collateral available for adjustment
against margins is used, the regulator said. All unexecuted
orders will be canceled once that threshold is reached, and all
new orders will be checked for sufficiency of margins.  Exchanges have a month to institute the new rules, and can
set “more stringent norms based on their assessment,”
according to the regulator.  The National Stock Exchange of India Ltd., the nation’s
largest bourse, controls more than 90 percent of India’s $28
billion equity derivatives market and handles 75 percent of
stock trades. The exchange began trading equities electronically
in 1994, prompting the 137-year-old BSE, which runs the  BSE
India Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , to follow suit.  The Nifty retreated 0.6 percent to 5,851.50 in Mumbai
yesterday, a third day of declines.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  