-- India Rejects Internet Regulation as UN Split Widens in Dubai
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-12-13T15:44:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/india-rejects-internet-regulation-as-un-split-widens-in-dubai.html
India  joined the U.S. in opposing
rules that would give governments control over the Internet as
an international split over Web regulation divides a United
Nations conference in Dubai.  “India feels there should not be a regulation of the
Internet,”  Rabindra Jha , the deputy director general of India’s
telecommunications department, said in an interview. “It should
be self regulating. It remains self regulating, like the solar
system. Nobody regulates day and night, nobody regulates the
year and months. It comes automatically.”  The conference is organized by the International
Telecommunication Union, a UN agency, and aims to update 24-
year-old global rules governing networks. Countries
participating in the two-week-long Dubai gathering today
continued to argue after a session that dragged into the small
hours of the morning failed to produce an agreement.  The U.S. and U.K. have said that any mention of the
Internet in the agreement would legitimize government control
and censorship of the Internet.  Saudi Arabia ,  China ,  Russia  and several Middle Eastern
nations have said some regulations are needed to protect
networks from spam and to give countries more power over web
address systems.  Still, Jha didn’t preclude all global agreements on the
Internet. Stakeholders may be able to agree on general
principles that would address issues like hacking or other
misuse of the Web.  Power Struggle  “You try to find those principles which will govern the
Internet automatically without any input from stakeholders,”
Jha said.  The conference itself has been subject to debate before it
even started in Dubai.  Criticism has come from government representatives as well
as Internet companies, among which  Google Inc. (GOOG)  has been the most
vocal. The world’s biggest search engine set up a petition
against the event, saying some governments would push for a
treaty allowing them to censor the Internet and limit the access
to information.  Some industry and company representatives, including from
Google, have attended the conference, though they have spoken up
against not being able to vote. Only countries are asked to vote
on proposals for the treaty, each of them holding one voice.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in Dubai at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  