-- India Sets Up Infrastructure Panel to Speed Up Project Approvals
-- B y   A b h i j i t   R o y   C h o w d h u r y
-- 2012-12-13T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/india-sets-up-infrastructure-panel-to-speed-up-project-approvals.html
India ’s Prime Minister Manmohan Singh will head a panel aimed at speeding up approvals of
infrastructure projects as he seeks to ease bottlenecks that
impede growth and spur inflation, a government minister said.  The Cabinet Committee on Investment has been set up to
fast-track projects, Environment Minister Jayanthi Natarajan
told reporters in New Delhi yesterday. She didn’t give details.  Singh is seeking $1 trillion of investments in highways,
harbors and power plants from 2012 to 2017 to spur development
in India, where the World Bank says more than two-thirds of
people live on less than $2 a day. He ended two years of
inaction in mid-September by curbing fuel subsidies and allowing
foreign investment in retail and aviation, amid political
opposition, as part of a plan to boost investor sentiment.  “Execution is critical,” said Upasna Bhardwaj, an
economist at  ING Vysya Bank Ltd. (VYSB)  in Mumbai. The investment panel
“needs to function in the way it was originally envisaged or it
will be just like any other committee.”  There are as much as $18 billion of stalled investments in
India, two government officials with knowledge of the figures
told Bloomberg News last month.  The cabinet committee also approved a land acquisition bill
and allowed a 30 percent reduction in the sale of airwaves. The
government approved a urea investment policy. More information
about the changes in the policies wasn’t immediately available.  Economic Growth  Singh is trying to reinvigorate the economy as the
faltering global recovery threatens the outlook for Asia-Pacific
nations even with signs of a pickup in  China . The economy
expanded 5.3 percent in the three months ended Sept. 30 from a
year earlier, slowing to match a three-year low as growth in
domestic spending and exports moderated.  Reserve Bank of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao on Oct. 30
resisted Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram’s calls for
lower borrowing costs to spur investment, leaving the  repurchase
rate  at 8 percent while cutting banks’ reserve requirements to
aid lending. The central bank signaled it may reduce rates next
quarter if inflation eases.  The government last week won parliamentary endorsement for
its September decision to allow foreign direct investment in
supermarkets, a move it says can help lower food prices should
retailers like Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and  Carrefour SA (CA)  build
warehouses and cold storage facilities to improve the supply
chain.  While benchmark  wholesale prices  gained at the slowest pace
in eight months in October, the easing may have be short-lived
as the effects of a diesel-price increase spread through Asia’s
third-largest economy. The wholesale price index probably rose
7.6 percent in November from a year earlier, after climbing 7.45
percent in October, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey before the figures are released today.  India’s inflation rate remains the fastest in the BRIC
group that also includes Brazil, Russia and China.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abhijit Roy Chowdhury in New Delhi at 
 achowdhury11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  