-- Investors Turn to Older Fixed-to-Floating Notes for Better Terms
-- B y   K e v i n   D u g a n
-- 2012-12-13T17:50:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/investors-turn-to-older-fixed-to-floating-notes-for-better-terms.html
Investors are turning to secondary
markets to buy notes that pay fixed  interest rates  before
switching over to a floating benchmark, as securities issued
more than a year ago offer better terms than new issuance.  First-time sales in the U.S. of fixed-to-floating rate
securities were $29.1 million in November, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s less than one-eighth of the $247.1
million in notional trading volume in the month for notes that
have been issued since January 2010, according to Trace, the
bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.  Investors prefer the higher yields on older securities,
even though they often pay a premium to acquire them as the
 Federal Reserve  extends its commitment to low rates, said Jason
Walsh, managing director at Wunderlich Securities Inc. in
 Chicago . Securities dealers buy the notes on the secondary
market and sell them to financial advisers, he said.  “The secondary market has been on fire for this stuff,”
Walsh said.  The increased volume of secondary trades suggests that
individual investors are betting that interest rates will rise,
said Deryk Rhodes, vice president of structured product trading
at Incapital LLC in  Boca Raton ,  Florida . “It’s typically been
an institutional trade and it looks like more and more retail
are participating.”  October trading volume was $282.2 million in face value for
fixed-to-floating rate notes issued since 2010, when Bloomberg
began collecting comprehensive data on structured notes
registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
That compares with $54 million of new issuance.  August Issuance  Two months earlier, the ratio was reversed. Banks issued
$420.7 million of the securities in August, the biggest month
this year, and almost four times the trading volume of $117.5
million that month.  Advisers are buying the bonds on the secondary market for
their clients because more Americans are retiring and are
looking for fixed-income securities that offer yields higher
than inflation, Walsh said. The  consumer price index , a gauge of
inflation in the U.S., is at 2.2 percent.  A four-year security issued by  Bank of America Corp.  on
April 20 was the most traded fixed-to-floating rate note last
month. It returns 5.1 percent for one year, then pays 1.5
percent more than the three-month U.S. dollar London interbank
offered rate until maturity, according to a  prospectus  filed
with the SEC. Investors bought 20,000 notes in four trades on
Nov. 28 at prices between 99.75 and 100.45 cents on the dollar.  The Fed anticipates it will keep its benchmark rate between
zero and 0.25 percent until at least mid-2015. The central bank
announced yesterday that it will purchase $45 billion in
mortgage-backed securities this month as part of its
quantitative easing program.  Banks create structured notes by packaging debt with
derivatives to offer customized bets to retail investors while
earning fees and raising money. Derivatives are contracts whose
value is derived from stocks, bonds, commodities and currencies,
or events such as changes in interest rates or the weather.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Dugan in  New York  at 
 kdugan4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  