-- Irish Mortgage Woes Worsen as 25% of Home Loans in Trouble
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2012-12-13T13:02:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/irish-mortgage-woes-worsen-as-25-of-home-loans-in-trouble.html
Ireland’s mortgage woes worsened in
the third quarter as the economy struggled to recover from the
worst recession in its modern history.  By value, about 25 percent of all residential loans
including buy-to-let were at least three months in arrears or
had been restructured, according to Bloomberg News calculations
based on central bank figures released today. That’s up from
22.5 percent at the end of the second quarter.  Irish banks are under pressure from regulators to find
solutions for loans that might never be repaid after receiving
64 billion euros ($83. 6 billion) of bailout funds since the
collapse of the country’s real estate bubble four years ago.
 Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK) , the nation’s largest mortgage lender,
plans to quicken the pace of restructuring, including the write
off of some debt, next year, executives said last month.  “Given the ongoing economic and financial backdrop, it is
not surprising that the overall stock of mortgage arrears
continues to grow,” Felix O’Regan, a spokesman for the  Irish
Banking Federation , said. “This is likely to continue that way
for some months yet.”  Ireland was plunged into economic crisis after a real
estate bubble popped in 2008. Unemployment has tripled to about
14.6 percent, as companies led by Dell Inc., Allied Irish Banks
Plc and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc shed jobs.  Pay Cuts  Twinned with pay cuts, rising joblessness has left many
homeowners struggling to pay loans. Some 21.5 percent of the
country’s 111.2 billion-euro private-residential mortgage market
was either in arrears or had loans modified at the end of
September. About 36 percent of the 31.1 billion-euro buy-to-let
market was in arrears or restructure.  By cases, the share of private home loans in arrears for
more than 90 days rose to 11.3 percent at the end of the third
quarter from 10.6 percent at the end of June. In the buy-to-let
sector, 17.9 percent of loans were more than three months in
arrears, up from 16.6 percent.  Still, the rate of arrears increase is beginning to ease,
at least in some sectors. Among private homeowners, arrears
growth slowed to 6.3 percent in the third quarter from 7.1
percent in the second quarter.  “The slowdown is encouraging,” said  Stephen Lyons , an
analyst at Dublin-based securities firm Davy. It “gives greater
comfort regarding the scale of the arrears problem as we enter
2013 and a step-up in the resolution process.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  at   jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  