-- Israel’s Liberman to Be Indicted for Fraud, Trust Breach
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2012-12-13T19:03:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/israel-s-liberman-to-be-indicted-for-fraud-and-breach-of-trust.html
Israeli Foreign Minister Avigdor Liberman, among Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s most
influential allies, will be indicted on charges of fraud and
breach of trust.  Attorney General Yehuda Weinstein decided to press charges
against Liberman today for receiving confidential information on
a decade-long police investigation against him from the former
ambassador to Belarus, who pleaded guilty to the charge in May,
according to an e-mailed Justice Ministry statement. Prosecutors
won’t press money-laundering charges against the foreign
minister, which they earlier labeled the central part of the
investigation, Weinstein said.  “According to the legal advice I received, I’m not
obligated to resign,” Liberman said in remarks to party
loyalists in Tel Aviv broadcast by Channel 2 television tonight.
“I want this trial to be as quick as possible.”  Liberman, 54, heads the second-largest party in Netanyahu’s
Likud-led coalition government and struck an agreement with the
prime minister to run on a joint ticket in next month’s
election. While the Moldovan-born foreign minister had
previously said he’d resign if indicted, political supporters
including Education Minister Gideon Saar said Weinstein’s
decision focused on the most marginal charges and he should
remain in the government. Netanyahu issued a statement by text
message congratulating Liberman on the reduced charges and
expressing the hope that he’d be acquitted.  ‘Moral Viewpoint’  Liberman has previously denied any wrongdoing and described
the allegations as nonsense.  The Labor Party, among other political opponents, demanded
that Liberman immediately resign, saying the foreign minister’s
“behavior, both from a criminal and moral viewpoint, endangers
Israeli democracy.”  Liberman lives in a West Bank settlement and has been
outspoken about his policy disagreements with Netanyahu even
though they remain close political allies. He told the  United
Nations General Assembly  last year that he supported an
“intermediate” accord with the Palestinians at a time when the
prime minister was seeking to negotiate a final peace agreement.  The former ambassador, Ze’ev Ben-Aryeh, struck a plea
agreement and was sentenced to four months of community service
for giving Liberman details about the money-laundering
investigation that police started in 2001.  Investigation Closed  Weinstein said the decision to indict the foreign minister
stemmed from Liberman’s “severe conflict of interest between
his obligations to the public and as foreign minister and head
of the nation’s foreign service and his feelings of personal
responsibility to Ben-Aryeh, who acted on his behalf in passing
along the secret information.”  The attorney-general closed the investigation against
Liberman because the difficulty of obtaining evidence in other
countries made it clear there was little chance of obtaining a
conviction. He made no judgment about whether the foreign
minister should resign, saying “the public will read and
decide.”  In last year’s draft indictment, Weinstein said the central
accusations relate to “transferred funds in the millions of
dollars, whose source was private businessmen, that were
received from 2001-2008 in corporations under his control during
the period when he served in the Knesset and was a government
minister.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  