-- Hitachi to Triple India Sales Dwarfed by China Business
-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a
-- 2012-12-13T18:30:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/hitachi-to-triple-india-sales-dwarfed-by-china-business.html
Hitachi Ltd. (6501)  announced a 70 billion
yen ($838 million)  India  investment plan as it tries to triple
sales dwarfed by its business in  China .  The company aims to boost India revenue to 300 billion yen
in the year ending March 2016 from 100 billion yen last fiscal
year, according to a statement. Its directors approved the plan
in New Delhi yesterday, the first overseas board meeting in the
Tokyo-based company’s 102-year history.  Hitachi sales in India are less than 10 percent of the
figure in China, where a building boom has spurred demand for
construction equipment, air conditioners and power plants. The
company now expects faster sales growth in India as it boosts
operations and anticipates quicker economic expansion than in
China.  “India is currently one of our highest priorities,”
Hitachi President Hiroaki Nakanishi said in an interview in the
Indian capital. Its “growth rate will exceed China’s,” he
said.  Hitachi will double its India workforce to 13,000 as it
turns to  emerging markets  to counter a shrinking population in
 Japan  and government spending cuts that are hitting sales in
 Europe . The company generated 57 percent of its 9.7 trillion yen
 global revenue  in Japan last fiscal year. It got about 11
percent in China, 8 percent in Europe and 1 percent in India.  India may account for 3 percent of global sales by March
2016, with China’s figure growing at a slower pace, Nakanishi
said.  India Production  Under the India plan, Hitachi intends to increase local
production of products including electronics, construction
machinery and industrial air-conditioners, as well as opening a
car-parts factory in Chennai.  “India needs infrastructure and Hitachi is strong in
infrastructure,” said  Masayuki Kubota , who oversees the
equivalent of $1.8 billion in assets in  Tokyo  at Daiwa SB
Investments Ltd. The country also “has a lot of growth
potential.”  The company will increase its use of India as an export
center for African and Middle Eastern markets, including
shipments of excavators and construction dump-trucks. It will
also use India as a base for growing its infrastructure systems
business in  Africa , it said.  India intends to attract $1 trillion in infrastructure
investments by 2017 as its steps up construction of highways,
ports and power systems to support economic growth and trade.
Work has previously lagged behind targets in India because of
land disputes, bureaucratic delays and other government
policies.  “Sometimes, India’s insistence on public-private
partnerships makes it very difficult to set up positions for
future investment,” Nakanishi said.  Hitachi Plants  Hitachi is already building two power-equipment plants in
southern India that should provide revenue of about 100 billion
yen a year by 2017. The plants, part of a venture with  BGR
Energy Systems Ltd. (BGRL) , are expected to make 3,000 megawatts of
capacity each year by 2014, according to Hitachi. The facility
will also export equipment to other parts of Asia.  A Hitachi venture has also won contracts to supply boilers
worth about 15 billion rupees ($276 million) to  NTPC Ltd. (NTPC) ,
India’s biggest utility by market capitalization. The country
suffers from a 9 percent peak power deficit which keeps about
400 million people in the dark every day, according the Central
Electricity Authority.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in New Delhi at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  