-- Italy Yields Drop at Auction as ECB Pledge Offsets Concern
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-12-13T12:30:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/italy-yields-drop-at-bond-auction-as-ecb-pledge-offset-concerns.html
Italy’s borrowing costs dropped at a
bond sale, clearing a second market hurdle this week as the
European Central Bank’s pledge to buy bonds offsets concern that
pending elections may erode the country’s commitment to economic
reforms.  The Treasury in  Rome  today sold a total of 4.22 billion
euros ($5.51 billion) of bonds, near its 4.25 billion-euro
maximum target for the auction. Italy sold 3.5 billion euros of
a new three-year bond at 2.50 percent, down from the 2.64
percent paid on similar-maturity debt Nov. 14 and the lowest
yield since Oct. 28, 2010. It also sold 729 million euros of a
2026 bond to yield 4.75 percent.  Prime Minister Mario Monti’s Dec. 8 decision to resign as
soon as the budget is passed, announced after former Premier
Silvio Berlusconi’s party withdrew support for the his unelected
government, pushed the Italian 10-year yield up by 29 basis
points on Dec. 10, the biggest gain since August. The selloff
was short lived, as investors remain reluctant to shun the
country’s debt with the ECB standing by as a backstop.  “Despite the twists and turns of Italian politics,  Italy ’s
bond market continues to shrug off the growing uncertainty
surrounding the outcome of next year’s parliamentary election,”
Nicholas Spiro, managing director of Spiro Sovereign Strategy in
London, said by e-mail. “Sentiment toward Italy is being
heavily shaped by the ECB’s new bond-buying program.”  Investor Demand  Italy’s 10-year  yield  declined 1.6 basis points to 4.63
percent at 1:27 p.m. in Rome. That left the difference with
comparable-maturity German debt at 329.8 basis points.  At today’s auction, which allowed the Treasury to complete
its funding program for this year, investors bid for 1.36 times
the amount of the three-year debt offered, down from 1.50 times
last month.  “Demand was decent and in line with expectations,”
Annalisa Piazza, a strategist at Newedge Group in  London , wrote
in an e-mail to clients. The Italian Treasury will have to sell
more than 400 billion euros in 2013.  The auction, which was probably helped by 18.7 billion of
bond redemptions due Dec. 15, comes after Italy paid the least
since March 13 yesterday to sell one-year bills. Today Spain
also tested the market’s appetite, meeting its maximum target of
2 billion euros for the sale, including the longest-maturity
bond it has auctioned for more than a year.  ‘Political Vacuum’  While Monti said this week investors shouldn’t fear a
“political vacuum,” the threat of political turmoil has been
rising. Berlusconi threw his week-old political comeback into
doubt yesterday, signaling he’d yield if Monti agrees to enter
the election campaign as part of a coalition of “moderates.”  “Probably no clear winner will emerge from the
elections,” Nicola Marinelli, who oversees $160 million at
Glendevon King in London, said by phone, adding that
Berlusconi’s party and the anti-austerity movement led by former
comic Beppe Grillo may get more votes than expected. “While the
lower house would probably have a center-left majority, the
upper house may remain in the hand of the right.”  Any rise in borrowing costs, even temporary, has an
immediate impact on Italy, which needs to sell an average of
more than 30 billion euros of bonds and bills a month to finance
the euro-region’s second-biggest debt, currently at more than
126 percent of gross domestic product.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at o
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  