-- Italy’s Grilli Supports Monti, Downplays Market Concerns
-- B y   T r i s h   R e g a n   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-12-13T23:08:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/italy-s-grilli-supports-monti-downplays-market-concerns.html
Italian Finance Minister  Vittorio Grilli  gave his support to  Mario Monti , the unelected prime
minister challenged by his predecessor  Silvio Berlusconi ’s
possible comeback bid, and sought to reassure investors on the
country’s outlook.  Grilli, in an interview yesterday on Bloomberg Television’s
“Street Smart” with  Trish Regan  in  New York , said his country
does not need international financial aid.  Monti “has done a wonderful job and has taken the country
in a very difficult moment and rebuilt credibility for our
country,” Grilli said. “I cannot say whether or not,” Monti
will run for office, “but I’m sure he is committed to the
country and will still be there and will be a great help in the
future.”  Monti’s Dec. 8 announcement that he plans to resign sent
Italian bond yields soaring because of concerns over whether the
next government would maintain his economic reforms. Monti, 69,
an economist who heads an unelected government of non-
politicians, enjoyed widespread support at the start of a two-
day summit of European leaders in Brussels yesterday.  Grilli, 55, was promoted to finance minister under Monti
and had a decade-long experience working at the ministry, mostly
under Monti’s predecessor, Berlusconi, the three-time prime
minister who has confused voters and investors alike on his
political intentions.  ‘Moderate’ Parties  After announcing his de-facto political retirement in
October, Berlusconi said this month he planned to run in
election that will probably be held in February. He then
withdrew his support for the Monti government, a move that
prompted the premier to announce he would resign once parliament
passes the 2013 budget this month. Berlusconi this week offered
to drop plans to run if Monti would enter the race as the head
of a coalition of “moderate” parties.  Italy’s 10-year bond yield on Dec. 10 jumped 29 basis
points, the most since August, after Monti announced his
resignation.  “We knew that political elections are coming up, and that
is part of the uncertainty which is linked to any political
election,” Grilli said. “I would downplay these kinds of
worries. I think probably the markets are judging the events
with a grain of salt.”  Asked if he thought Monti should enter the race for the
elections, Grilli responded: “That is very hard to say.”  Italy’s 10-year bond yield has fallen by more than 200
basis points since Monti was appointed in November 2011. He came
to power after 10-year bond yields surged to a euro-era record
7.5 percent, contributing to Berlusconi’s decision to resign. 