-- Jefferson County Lawyer Says Creditors Threaten Talks
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h ,   M a r t i n   B r a u n   a n d   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2012-12-13T21:11:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/jefferson-county-lawyer-says-creditor-tactics-threaten-talks.html
Jefferson County,  Alabama , may break
off debt-reduction talks with hedge funds holding more than $700
million in defaulted sewer warrants because of the group’s
litigation tactics, the county’s lead bankruptcy lawyers said.  Should the hedge funds try to question county commissioners
under oath about settlement talks the county is holding with its
major creditors, negotiations with the funds will end, attorney
Kenneth Klee said in an interview. Yesterday, the hedge funds,
who call themselves the ad hoc group of sewer warrant holders,
won court permission to depose three commissioners about their
efforts to end the county’s bankruptcy.  The depositions may give the hedge funds an unfair
advantage in negotiations, which continued in New York this
week, county attorney Patrick Darby said yesterday in court.  “I can’t fly to New York and ask his clients what their
real number is,” Darby said, referring to hedge fund lawyer
Gregory Horowitz. “I can’t ask under oath what a reasonable
settlement number is.”  For months, the county and its major creditors have been
trying to negotiate a plan to cut the sewer debt and end the
biggest-ever municipal U.S. bankruptcy. The county today is
scheduled to end three days of talks in New York with
representatives of creditors who hold more than $3 billion in
sewer warrants at the heart of the biggest municipal bankruptcy.  The hedge funds don’t intend to ask the commissioners
inappropriate questions that would violate any confidentiality
agreements, Horowitz told U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Thomas Bennettin
court yesterday.  No Interference  Bennett said he won’t allow creditors to ask questions that
would interfere with negotiations.  The hedge funds include Brigade Capital Management LLC,
Claren Road Asset Management LLC, Fundamental Advisors LP and
Monarch Capital Master Partners LP. In court filings, they said
the county could base a settlement on a pre-bankruptcy agreement
that creditors and state and local elected officials failed to
implement.  That plan would have required Jefferson County residents to
absorb three sewer rate increases of about 8.2 percent each and
creditors to make more than $1 billion in concessions.  That plan also required state law makers to pass laws that
would help the county raise money and offer a qualified
guarantee that warrant holders would be repaid. The legislature
didn’t pass any of the laws.  The hedge funds offered a new plan that would have cut the
rate increases and saved money by refinancing the warrants at
lower interest, according to a declaration filed in the
bankruptcy case by hedge fund financial adviser J. Soren Reynertson.  Funds’ Plan  Creditors would reduce the sewer warrants “in amounts
comparable to the 2011 refinancing,” Reynertson, a Managing
General Partner of GLC Advisors & Co., said.  The county has approved a 5.9 percent rate increase,
according to court documents.  Any new deal would not include support from Alabama
legislature, county Commissioner Jimmie Stephens said in an
interview last week. The talks in New York follow talks last
month in Los Angeles, Stephens said.  “I’m not saying we’re close yet, but we’re at least
talking,” he said.  The hedge funds and other sewer-warrant holders have asked
Bennett to let them sue Jefferson County in Alabama state court
over sewer rates that don’t raise enough money to cover the
system’s debt payments.  Bennett ruled yesterday that the sewer creditors can
question three county commissioners under oath to collect
evidence to support the lawsuit request.  Court Permission  To sue a municipality in bankruptcy, creditors need
permission from the judge overseeing the case.  “If the ad hoc group wants to take discovery of
commissioners under oath about the substance of the settlement
discussions, we are not going to have settlement discussions
until the litigation is over,” Klee said yesterday in an
interview.  Last year, after the first settlement agreement failed,
Jefferson County filed for bankruptcy, blaming the loss of tax
revenue when a business-related tax was struck down by a state
court and the high cost of the sewer debt.  In one of his written court opinions in the bankruptcy
case, Bennett said that it took “courage” for the county to
come so close to the original settlement.  “We have a right to take discovery to find out where that
courage went,” Horowitz said in court yesterday, referring to
the depositions.  The case is In re Jefferson County, 11-05736, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Alabama (Birmingham).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   schurch3@bloomberg.net 
Martin Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net ;
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 