-- JFK Security Officers Approve Strike Days Before Christmas
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2012-12-13T23:09:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/jfk-security-officers-approve-strike-five-days-before-christmas.html
About 200 private security officers
who screen passengers, handle bags and clean airplane cabins at
 John F. Kennedy International Airport  voted to authorize a Dec.
20 strike, potentially snarling holiday travel plans for
thousands.  The workers, represented by Service Employees International
Union and employed by Air Serv Corp., said the contractor has
failed to respond to security concerns and are trying to silence
them, according to a news release issued by SEIU Local 32BJ. The
officers have complained about shoddy equipment, rushed searches
and lack of training, which they said endangers air travelers.  “We are not provided the basic tools we need to keep
passengers at the airport safe,” Prince Jackson, a security
officer employed by Air Serv, said in the release. “Our backs
are against the wall because Air Serv tells us to shut up. Don’t
talk about how bad things are.”  JFK, in the borough of Queens, is New York’s busiest
airport, serving 47.7 million passengers last year. The security
officers, who are paid about $8 an hour, are working with SEIU
Local 32BJ to gain official recognition, said Tanya Tuzman, a
union spokeswoman. The security officers have been filing
complaints with the company for more than a year, she said.  Another group of 100 JFK workers employed by Garden City,
New York-based Global Elite will vote to authorize a strike
tomorrow, the news release said.  Steve Coleman, a spokesman for the Port Authority of New
York and New Jersey, which runs JFK, didn’t immediately return a
call seeking comment.  “These issues have only just come to our attention this
week,” Atlanta-based Air Serv said in an e-mailed statement.
“We are now in the process of reviewing them. As our policies
make clear, we value employees’ input on matters of concern to
them. Accordingly, we will be speaking with employees on these
matters in the days and weeks to come.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martin Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  