-- Joseph Woodland, Ubiquitous Bar Code’s Co-Inventor, Dies at 91
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2012-12-13T16:03:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/joseph-woodland-ubiquitous-bar-code-s-co-inventor-dies-at-91.html
N. Joseph Woodland, a co-inventor of
the system of thick and thin lines that today is the ubiquitous
bar code, has died. He was 91.  He died on Dec. 9 at his home in Edgewater,  New Jersey , the
 New York  Times reported, citing his daughter, Susan Woodland. No
cause was given.  Woodland and Bernard Silver developed the bar code as
graduate students at  Drexel University  in Philadelphia -- then
called Drexel Institute of Technology -- in the late 1940s.  According to  Drexel, the head of a local grocery-store
chain had sought the university’s engineering help in 1948 to
advance the checkout process. Woodland, in an article in Wonders
of Modern Technology, recalled that he took his inspiration from
the dots and dashes of Morse code.  “I just extended the dots and dashes downwards and made
narrow lines and wide lines out of them,” Woodland said in the
article, according to Drexel.  The system created by Woodland and  Silver  relied on the
varying brightness of light shone through the lines -- the
thicker the line, the more light it blocked. The engineers filed
for a patent on Oct. 20, 1949.  Woodland went to work for  International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM)  in 1951 with hopes that the idea would be further
developed. He received the patent, No. 2,612,994, on Oct. 7,
1952,  according  to IBM.  Manhattan Project  In 1973, a rectangular bar code promoted by IBM, after
substantial design input by Woodland, was formally adopted as
the Universal Product Code, according to the National Inventors
Hall of Fame, which inducted  Woodland  and Silver in 2011. Silver
died in 1963, according to the Times.  Norman Joseph Woodland was born on Sept. 6, 1921, and grew
up in  Atlantic City , New Jersey, according to the Hall of Fame.  During World War II, he was a technical assistant on the
Manhattan Project to develop the world’s first atom bomb,
according to an IBM  profile .  After the war, Woodland earned his bachelor of science in
mechanical engineering from Drexel and a master of science at
 Syracuse University  in Syracuse, New York.  He retired from IBM in 1987. In 1992, he received the
National Medal of Technology from the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office, along with Microsoft Corp. founder  Bill Gates  and six
other recipients.  In addition to his daughter, Susan, Woodland is survived by
his wife, the former Jacqueline Blumberg, whom he married in
1951; a second daughter, Betsy Karpenkopf; a brother, David; and
a granddaughter, according to the Times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  