-- Kasich Said to Plan for $1.5 Billion Ohio Turnpike Debt Sale
-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2012-12-13T13:41:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/kasich-said-to-plan-for-1-5-billion-ohio-turnpike-debt-sale-1-.html
The  Ohio  Turnpike Commission would
issue as much as $1.5 billion in new debt backed by toll revenue
to help pay for state road and bridge projects under a proposal
Governor John Kasich will announce today.  The plan, which requires legislative approval, calls for
the Turnpike Commission to issue about $1 billion in bonds as
soon as next year, and about an additional $500 million in the
coming years, according to an administration official, who asked
not to be named ahead of Kasich’s announcement. The proceeds
would be used to increase available funding for highway projects
in northern Ohio and elsewhere in the state, as well as
refurbish the turnpike, the official said.  While Kasich had considered leasing the 241-mile (388-
kilometer)  toll road  to a private operator, it would remain
under the control of the Turnpike Commission, the official said.
Tolls could increase up to the rate of inflation annually, less
than historic toll increases, with a 10-year freeze on the
charge for trips of less than 30 miles, the official said.  “We think we’ve arrived at the right place,” Kasich told
reporters in Columbus on Dec. 10 in advance of today’s
announcement. The goal is to “capture greater wealth from a
great asset to benefit the state,” he said.  Road Work  Ohio’s revenue from state and federal gasoline taxes has
declined by $328 million since 2007 as construction costs have
increased, delaying as much as $1.6 billion of major highway
projects for lack of funding, the Department of Transportation
has said.  The state commissioned a study in November 2011 by  KPMG  for
alternatives to tap the toll road to help address the shortfall.
The options included a lease, selling bonds backed by toll
revenue and a state takeover of the toll road, the
administration has said.  About 90 percent of the proceeds under the governor’s plan
would be spent on state highway projects in northern Ohio,
addressing concerns of residents living near the turnpike who
opposed having toll revenue pay for work in other parts of the
state, the official said. A majority of Ohioans didn’t want a
private lease, according to a 2011 Quinnipiac University  poll .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus  at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  