-- Khosla Ventures Hires Condoleezza Rice as Adviser
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2012-12-13T11:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/khosla-ventures-hires-condoleezza-rice-as-adviser.html
Khosla Ventures , the investment firm
led by Sun Microsystems Inc. co-founder Vinod Khosla, hired
former U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice’s advisory firm
to work with its portfolio companies.  Rice, who is now a professor at Stanford University, is
being tapped to help Khosla Ventures’ startups deal with
political and regulatory risks as they expand overseas, the
Menlo Park, California-based firm said today in a statement. Her
partners at  RiceHadleyGates LLC  include former National Security
Advisor Stephen Hadley and former Defense Secretary Robert Gates.  Khosla Ventures is among a growing crop of venture firms
adding to the services it provides for startups as entrepreneurs
seek more than just cash and board members. Andreessen Horowitz
led the trend, investing in marketing, public relations and
recruiting, while also hiring former U.S. Treasury Secretary
Lawrence Summers as an adviser.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, is an investor
in Andreessen Horowitz.  Rice, 58, has some experience working with Khosla Ventures
companies already. She’s on the board of  Kior Inc. (KIOR) , a renewable
energy company that was  started  in 2007 as a joint venture
between Khosla and BIOeCon, a Dutch company. Kior, based in
 Pasadena ,  Texas , sold shares to the public last year.  Rice served as Secretary of State from 2005 to 2009 under
President George W. Bush. Prior to that, she was National
Security Advisor.  Strategic Consulting  With offices in Silicon Valley and  Washington , D.C.,
RiceHadleyGates describes itself as an international strategic
consulting firm. According to its website, the firm helps
companies expand in Asia, the Middle East and Americas,
providing expertise on national security and foreign policy
issues.  Anja Manuel, who worked for the State Department and
practiced international law before co-founding RiceHadleyGates,
said the firm has helped technology startups understand Internet
laws in  India  and how to partner with universities and
ministries in  Africa .  “We do a lot of work helping tech firms expand in  emerging
markets ,” Manuel said in an interview.  Neither firm is disclosing the economic terms of the
agreement. Samir Kaul, a partner at Khosla Ventures, said
RiceHadleyGates is incentivized to help portfolio startups
succeed.  Khosla Ventures’ investments include Soraa Inc., a provider
of lighting technology, Soladigm Inc., a maker of windows that
automatically tint darker in bright sunshine, mobile payments
startup Square Inc. and ZocDoc Inc., which runs a website where
patients book medical appointments.  The firm raised a $1.05 billion fund in late 2011. Khosla,
57, has said he plans to steer as much as 65 percent of the
capital to support businesses developing renewable sources of
power, energy-efficiency technology and LED-lighting products.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  