-- Korean Won Rises to 15-Month High on Fed Stimulus; Bonds Decline
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2012-12-13T06:41:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/korean-won-rises-to-15-month-high-bonds-fall-on-fed-stimulus.html
South  Korea ’s won strengthened to a
15-month high after the  Federal Reserve  said it will expand
asset purchases that boost the supply of dollars.  Government
bonds  fell.  The Fed said yesterday it will buy $45 billion a month of
 Treasury securities  starting in January, in addition to $40
billion a month of existing mortgage-debt purchases. The won
held its gains after the  Bank of Korea  kept the benchmark
interest  rate  unchanged at 2.75 percent in a decision predicted
by 14 of 15 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News . Vice Finance
Minister Shin Je Yoon said the impact on financial markets from
yesterday’s rocket launch by North Korea was “limited” and
“temporary.”  The won rose for a fifth day, the longest run of gains
since October, and closed 0.2 percent stronger at 1,073.03 per
dollar in  Seoul , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
currency touched 1,071.08 earlier, the strongest level since
Sept. 8, 2011. One-month implied volatility, a measure of
expected moves in exchange rates used to price options, slid 20
basis points, or 0.20 percentage point, to 4.75 percent. The
 Kospi index  of shares rallied 1.4 percent.  “It’s the Fed’s announcement that’s dominating market
today, with the BOK’s rate decision having little effect as it
was expected,” said Jeon Seung Ji, a Seoul-based currency
analyst for Samsung Futures Inc. “There is speculation the
government will prevent the won from appreciating beyond the
1,070 per dollar level, which will limit steeper gains.”  Herd Behavior  South Korea is concerned about herd behavior in won trading
and a worsening of the exchange-rate trend will be the most
important factor in making any decision regarding a tightening
of restrictions on capital flows, Vice Finance Minister Shin
said Dec. 11.  Asia’s fourth-largest economy is poised for a “moderate”
export-led recovery and inflation will remain low, the central
said in a statement today. The  interest-rate  decision was
unanimous, Governor Kim Choong Soo said at a press briefing.  Government bonds extended declines after the central bank’s
policy announcement. The yield on South Korea’s 2.75 percent
bonds due September 2017 increased three basis points to 2.99
percent, Korea Exchange Inc. prices show. The one-year interest-
rate swap rose three basis points to 2.81 percent.  “Some traders had expected the central bank to make dovish
comments,” said Ahn Soo Jin, a fixed-income trader in Seoul at
Busan Bank. “But with nothing special coming out of today’s
policy meeting, it appears that they sold the bonds out of
disappointment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  