-- N.J. Faces $5.5 Billion Pension Bill by 2018, Study Says
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2012-12-13T18:28:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/n-j-faces-5-5-billion-pension-bill-by-2018-study-says.html
New Jersey’s pension contribution
may consume almost one-fifth of its annual budget by 2018 under
a law enacted by Republican Governor  Chris Christie , according
to a group led by former  Federal Reserve  Chairman  Paul Volcker 
and  Richard Ravitch , the former New York lieutenant governor.  The contribution must rise by about $4.5 billion over the
next five years, from $1.03 billion in 2013, to comply with the
2010 law, the State Budget Crisis Task Force said in a report. A
$5.5 billion payment equals two-thirds of the school aid in
Christie’s spending plan for the year that began July 1.  New Jersey has underfunded its pensions since the mid-1990s
and not provided for future costs of retiree health care, the
report said. It’s now required to boost pension payments each
year until 2018. While Christie “has moved in the right
direction and recognizes the problem,” Ravitch said he has
“some skepticism” that the governor will be able to reach full
funding by then.  “I don’t know how that can be done without a Draconian tax
increase,” Ravitch, 79, said during a Dec. 12 interview in
Washington.  Michael Drewniak , a spokesman for Christie, said in an e-
mail today that the full payment is years off. “I’m not going
to speculate on that at this early stage,” he wrote in
reference to a possible tax increase.  Federal Spending  Ravitch and Volcker created the task force of former
government officials in 2011 to examine U.S. state finances. The
group released a main report in July on California,  Illinois ,
New Jersey, New York, Texas and Virginia, and is preparing
reports on individual states.  Christie, 50, has vetoed efforts by Democrats who control
the legislature to raise income taxes on millionaires. The
governor, who plans to seek re-election next year, spent much of
2012 campaigning for lower taxes to boost the economy.  The governor told reporters last month that  Hurricane
Sandy , which hit the state on Oct. 29, may throw a  tax cut  into
doubt. Revenue from July through October trailed his budget
forecasts by $263.8 million, or about 4.1 percent.  ’Big Expenditure’  The law he signed required the state to make one-seventh of
its pension contribution in fiscal 2012, and then raise the
payment each year until it is making the full amount in 2018.  “As I understand, what’s already been decided requires a
big expenditure,” Volcker said in an interview today in
Trenton, where the report’s findings were made public.  New Jersey ’s pension deficit reached $53.9 billion in 2010
after the state expanded benefits and skipped payments over a
decade. The gap fell to $36.3 billion after Christie signed
bills that boosted employee pension and health-care
contributions, raised the minimum  retirement age  for new workers
and froze cost-of-living adjustments.  “As the Volcker-Ravitch report rightly notes, Governor
Christie’s administration was the first to enact a path to
reform the pension and benefits systems,” Drewniak said. “Had
the governor not led and accomplished these reforms, the
challenges before us would be insurmountable.”  The unfunded pension liability swelled to $41.8 billion by
June 2011 after Christie skipped a $3 billion pension payment.
The deficit would have been more than $61 billion without his
benefits overhaul, the state treasury has estimated.  Full Funding  The governor’s fiscal 2013 pension payment was $2.6 billion
less than required, according to the Volcker-Ravitch report.
Still, it was one of the largest contributions in state history.
Christie made no pension payment during his first year in office
and a $484 million contribution in fiscal 2012.  New Jersey’s pension system was 68 percent funded as of
2011, up from 66 percent in 2010 but down from 78 percent in
2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  When he took office in 2010, Christie pledged an end to
one-shot tricks to balance budgets. Nonrecurring revenue made up
4 percent of his 2012 and 2013 budgets, down from 13.2 percent
in former Democratic Governor  Jon Corzine ’s last year in office
and 6.2 percent in Christie’s first, according to today’s
report.  The group called for state officials to limit the use of
nonrecurring revenues, set aside enough money for pensions and
retiree benefits, review the  tax code , strengthen the rainy-day
fund and adopt multiyear budgeting.  Volcker, 85, was chairman of the Federal Reserve under
Presidents  Jimmy Carter , a Democrat, and  Ronald Reagan , a
Republican. Ravitch served under former New York Governor  David Paterson , a Democrat. The group’s work is funded by grants, and
its purpose is to draw attention to issues affecting state
finances.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton  at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  