-- Nasdaq Cancels Some Trades in Goldman, Sprint After Error
-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2012-12-13T17:57:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/nasdaq-cancels-some-trades-in-nine-u-s-stocks-over-one-minute.html
Nasdaq Stock Market  canceled  some
trades in nine U.S. stocks, such as Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
 Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , that occurred more
than 10 percent away from yesterday’s close.  The errors took place in the minute before the regular
opening of trading, the Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. unit said on its
website. Goldman Sachs fell as much as 20 percent to $94.01 and
Hewlett-Packard plunged 79 percent to $3.06 before the trades
were broken. Sprint touched $2.82, a 50 percent decline, prior
to the Nasdaq’s decision to reverse those transactions.  “When I first saw they were canceling trades, my first
reaction was: here we go again,”  Larry Peruzzi , senior equity
trader at Cabrera Capital Markets LLC in Boston, wrote in an e-
mail. “I would not be happy if these erroneous trades triggered
a stop-loss order if I had one on the books. My concern here is
the frequency these errors are happening.”  Concern about mistakes in electronic trading has grown this
year after a software error on Aug. 1 caused  Knight Capital
Group Inc. (KCG)  to lose $457 million, almost bankrupting one of the
largest U.S. market makers. Nasdaq accidentally halted the start
of trading in  Whitehorse Finance Inc. (WHF)  last week and flubbed
Facebook Inc.’s initial public offering in May when its auction
to set the first traded price for the shares failed.  Wayne Lee, a spokesman for Nasdaq OMX, declined to comment
beyond the status updates on the company’s website. Shares of
the New York-based company slipped 0.3 percent to $24.23 as of
12:23 p.m. in New York.  ‘Clearly Erroneous’  The trades were canceled under Nasdaq’s “ clearly erroneous 
transaction” rule, which covers prints that are “substantially
inconsistent with the market price at the time of execution,”
according to its statement.  For  Goldman Sachs (GS) , there were 12 trades totaling 1,200
shares at $94.01 as well as one trade for 100 shares at $94.31
and a 100-share trade at $97.36, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. All occurred in the second before the 9:30 a.m. open
of exchanges in New York and were broken. Trades occurring
during the same second as low as $109.87, 7 percent below
yesterday’s close, were not canceled.  ‘Big Deal’  Transactions in  Citigroup Inc. (C)  at or below $33.77, Hewlett-
Packard from $13.07,  AT&T Inc. (T)  from $31.04, Western Union Co.
from $11.90,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  from $30.15,  Kroger Co. (KR)  from
$23.93, Goldman Sachs from $106.28 and Sprint from $5.09 and in
 Ventas Inc. (VTR)  at or above $71.58, were voided, the  Nasdaq  OMX unit
said on its website.  “When something like this happens, it can be a big deal
for traders in that if they were on the other side of these
trades and traded out of those positions, they would be exposed
to risk they had not foreseen,” Mark Turner, head of U.S. sales
trading at New York-based Instinet Inc., wrote in an e-mail.
“In these challenging times, consistency in regulation and
governance is paramount.”  The start of trading in Whitehorse’s IPO was delayed last
week after Nasdaq OMX mistakenly halted the collection of orders
prior to the open, a person familiar with the situation said.
The error came after a Nasdaq OMX employee, intending to push
back the start time of quoting in the company’s stock,
inadvertently halted it, according to the person.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is reviewing
Nasdaq’s plan to pay brokers $62 million for losses related to
the  Facebook IPO  in May. The exchange’s so-called opening cross,
which sets the first traded price for Facebook, failed to
operate properly on May 18. The failure to disseminate
confirmations about orders submitted into that opening cross for
more than two hours led to investor and brokerage confusion
about transactions and prevented them from taking actions to
reduce their risks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  