-- New York City to Test Hailing Taxis With Smartphone Applications
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-12-13T19:07:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/new-york-city-to-test-hailing-taxis-with-smartphone-applications.html
New York City  taxi passengers will
be able to use smartphones to order cabs from the curb in a one-
year test program, the  Taxi and Limousine Commission  said.  The panel unanimously approved the proposal today with two
abstentions, scuttling a previously planned vote on a permanent
licensed system of electronic applications for hailing. The
decision to test the program came after some commission members
expressed concern that the change would hurt limousine and
livery services.  The pilot program, which goes into effect Feb. 15, will
allow  New Yorkers  to flag a cab without having to wave their
arms or shout at drivers in street traffic, a city tradition for
decades. Taxi apps are already used in cities such as  London ,
 San Francisco  and  Boston , according to New York officials.  “We should not ignore technology that’s out there,” said
commission Chairman David Yassky. “When you have technology
that’s already being used and benefiting passengers, regulations
shouldn’t stand in the way.”  The apps would enable passengers to hail taxis within about
a half-mile in  Manhattan ’s business district, south of 59th
Street, and within 1.5 miles (2.4 kilometers) in the rest of the
city, Yassky said. Drivers can enable the system with a single
touch of their hand-held device, he said.  App Companies  The test will allow customers and drivers of New York’s
more than 13,000 yellow cabs to get used to the apps and permit
the commission to evaluate their usefulness, Yassky said. The
TLC may decide to forgo the program, make it permanent or order
changes, he said.  Representatives from passenger-app companies, including
Uber Technologies Inc., Hailo, GetTaxi Inc. and RideCharge
Inc.’s Taxi Magic, were present for the vote, said Allan Fromberg, a TLC spokesman.  Travis Kalanick, co-founder and chief executive officer of
San Francisco-based Uber, said in a blog post that the TLC
“overcame its own reticence and overwhelmingly passed a plan to
bring the nation’s largest taxi market into the 21st century.”
The company’s product had been used in 100 cabs in an experiment
that the TLC ended Oct. 16.  The technology companies make money through advertising, or
by charging passengers for using the service or for downloading
the app, Fromberg said.  Limousine companies were represented at the hearing by the
Black Car Fund and the Livery Roundtable.  ‘Bad Rule’  “The TLC didn’t have the votes needed to pass a bad rule,
so now it’s just a bad pilot that was approved without the
disclosure of any substantive details,” Avik Kabessa, chief
executive of Carmel Car & Limousine Service and a member of the
roundtable board, said in an e-mail statement.  Bhairavi Desai, executive director of the  New York  Taxi
Workers Alliance, said drivers approved of the vote,
particularly because the commission will permit cabbies to
decide which, if any, applications to use. That will prevent the
technology companies from charging exorbitant commissions on
fares, she said.  “For the first time, we will be in the driver’s seat, with
no company forcing drivers to use any app,” Desai said. “This
will make sure that app companies don’t undercut our wages by
charging a fee on an e-hail.”  Commissioner Nora Marino, one of the two who abstained,
objected to being asked to rule on a proposal that she hadn’t
had an opportunity to study carefully.  “A pilot program sounds great, but like a marriage, a lot
of things are a lot easier to get into than to get out of,” she
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  