-- NewPage Wins Court Approval of Plan for Bankruptcy Exit
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-12-13T21:34:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/newpage-wins-court-approval-of-plan-for-bankruptcy-exit.html
NewPage Corp., the largest U.S.
coated-paper maker, won court approval of its plan to reorganize
and exit bankruptcy in the hands of its first-lien noteholders.  The company will leave bankruptcy with about $500 million
in debt after shedding about $2.7 billion in obligations, the
company’s chief executive officer, George F. Martin, said in an
interview after the court hearing.  “Our company recognizes that we borrowed money that is not
going to be paid back,” Martin told U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Gross in Wilmington, Delaware during the hearing. “We are going
to make sure that when we get this second chance that we
succeed.”  NewPage, based in Miamisburg,  Ohio , filed for bankruptcy in
September 2011, listing $3.4 billion in assets and $4.2 billion
in debt.  Gross said he planned to sign an order approving the
reorganization plan after the company and a group of creditors
work out final wording. Approval of the plan is the last court
action necessary before NewPage can exit bankruptcy.  The plan is based in part on a settlement with an official
committee of unsecured creditors, who had disputed the company’s
claims that since its $2.7 billion in secured debt exceeded the
value of its assets, it could pay lower-ranking creditors
nothing.  Fraudulent Transfers  The committee began investigating whether a 2007 buyout
that expanded the company and a 2009 refinancing could be
challenged as so-called fraudulent transfers that harmed lower-
ranking creditors, according to court records.  The settlement allows some lawsuits to go forward and
settles other claims. Lower-ranking noteholders and some other
unsecured creditors will split $30 million in cash and the first
$50 million that might come from any lawsuits filed by a
litigation trust, NewPage  said  in a statement in October.  During the bankruptcy, the company didn’t lay off any of
its U.S. workers, focusing instead on its balance sheet. The
company employs about 6,000 people, Martin said.  The case is In re NewPage Corp. 11-12804, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of  Delaware  (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  