-- NextEra’s Florida Power Wins Above-Average Returns in Rates
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2012-12-13T22:30:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/nextera-s-florida-power-wins-above-average-returns-in-rates-1-.html
NextEra Energy Inc. (NEE) ’s flagship
utility  Florida Power & Light  won state approval today for a
$350 million electricity rate increase and above-average return
on equity after last-minute concessions to regulators.  A revised agreement between NextEra, based in  Juno Beach ,
Florida, and groups representing large business and government
customers was approved by unanimous vote of Florida Public
Service Commissioners meeting in Tallahassee. It sets rates for
the next four years for Florida Power’s 4.6 million homes and
businesses, the most in the state.  Florida Power will be allowed a 10.5 percent return on
equity, up from 10 percent under rates that expire at year-end,
Cynthia Muir, a spokeswoman for the commission, said in a
telephone interview following the vote.  That compares with a 9.78 percent average return on equity
granted U.S. electric utilities in the third quarter,  according 
to the Edison Electric Institute. Both the original deal, which
called for a 10.7 percent return on equity, and the revision
were opposed by the Office of Public Counsel, the state’s
official advocate for utility customers.  “We regard approval of the revised settlement as a
significant positive,”  Michael Worms , a New York-based analyst
for BMO Capital who rates the shares “outperform,” equivalent
to a buy, and owns none, wrote today in a note to clients. “The
public interest has been met.”  The initial agreement was a “windfall to shareholders,”
the Public Counsel said in a  filing . Hour-long talks today
weren’t fair or reasonable, a spokesman for the office told
commissioners today.  Higher Bills  Florida Power had said in a Nov. 21 statement that absent
an approved rate plan it would raise the typical January
household bill by $1.45 from a year earlier using a state law
that allows utilities to bill at unapproved rates subject to
refund.  Typical household bills in January will be 37 cents lower
than a year earlier as a result of the decision because of
declines in fuel costs and other items not included in basic
rates, Mark Bubriski,  Florida  Power spokesman, said today in a
phone interview. Typical bills will rise less than $1 a month in
June 2013 when a new power plant comes into service, Florida
Power said in a statement.  Bills for businesses will range from unchanged to 3 percent
lower, Bubriski said.  Today’s settlement allows the utility to collect an
additional $350 million in basic rates for delivering
electricity, down from $378 million provided in the proposed
Aug. 15 settlement.  NextEra rose 1.2 percent to $70.05 today in  New York . The
shares have risen 15 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  