-- NII Holdings Chairman Becomes Interim CEO
-- B y   N i c k   T u r n e r
-- 2012-12-14T21:15:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/nii-chairman-shindler-named-interim-ceo-as-steven-dussek-departs.html
NII Holdings Inc. (NIHD) , the wireless
carrier that sells service under the Nextel brand in  Latin
America , named Chairman Steven Shindler as interim chief
executive officer, replacing Steven Dussek.  Shindler, who previously served as the company’s CEO from
2000 to 2008, is retaking the role effective immediately.
Dussek, meanwhile, is leaving the Reston, Virginia-based company
to “pursue other opportunities,” NII Holdings said.  The company has posted losses in four of the last five
quarters, and its average revenue per user dropped almost $12 to
$37 last quarter. With Shindler back in charge, NII Holdings may
have a shot of rekindling the success that the company enjoyed
over the previous decade, said  Chris King , an analyst at Stifel
Financial Corp. in Baltimore.  “Shindler brings a stellar reputation to the CEO slot once
again,” King said in a note. “During that time frame, NII
executed almost flawlessly, in our view, delivering strong
growth and solid metrics consistently.”  The company said it will begin a search for a permanent
replacement. Before his last stint as NII Holdings’ CEO,
Shindler served as chief financial officer for Nextel
Communications. He also was a managing director at Toronto-
Dominion Bank, where he raised capital for wireless companies.  NII Holdings rose 6 percent to $6.32 at the close in New
York.  The shares  have declined 70 percent this year, following a
52 percent drop in 2011.  Network Expansion  NII Holdings has been trying to add network capacity in
 Brazil  and is refocusing on more lucrative customers. The
company also is expanding its third-generation wireless network.
It recently rolled out 3G in  Mexico , its second-largest market,
and is working to introduce it in Brazil, its biggest market, to
keep customers from defecting to America Movil SAB and
Telefonica SA, which already have the technology.  “In this new role, I will focus my attention on the build-
out of our 3G network, high-quality subscriber growth, key
financial metrics including revenue and margins, and providing a
quality product and superior customer experience,” Shindler
said in the statement.  The company said last month that its third-quarter net loss
widened to $82.4 million, or 48 cents a share, compared with a
break-even quarter a year earlier. Analysts had estimated a loss
of 28 cents on average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Sales dropped 15 percent to $1.42 billion, missing the $1.49
billion projection.  NII Holdings plans to outline its strategy when it delivers
fourth-quarter results in February.  “We believe Shindler, given time to get his arms around
the current operations, is likely to be far more engaging with
investors,” King said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Turner in  New York  at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  