-- NYC Teachers Fund Pledges $1 Billion for Post-Sandy Rebuilding
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-12-13T21:42:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/nyc-teachers-fund-pledges-1-billion-for-post-sandy-rebuilding.html
New York City’s teacher pension fund
pledged to invest $1 billion to rebuild infrastructure and
housing damaged by  Hurricane Sandy .  Bridge repairs, housing, electric power and water systems
are among the projects that will be considered for investment by
the pension’s seven-member board, which controlled assets valued
at $46 billion as of Sept. 30, fund officials said today.  “Hurricane Sandy has brought those needs into keener
focus, and I am happy to stand here today and say that the
teachers of New York City are taking a leadership role in
helping to rebuild our city and state,” said Michael Mulgrew,
president of the United Federation of Teachers, in remarks
prepared for a news briefing at the Manhattan office of former
President  Bill Clinton ’s  Global Initiative .  Sandy, the biggest Atlantic storm on record, came ashore
Oct. 29, pounding New York with winds of as much as 100 miles
(160 kilometers) an hour, killing more than 40 city residents
flooding thousands of homes, transit tunnels and underground
utilities. President  Barack Obama  last week asked Congress to
appropriate more than $60 billion to aid rebuilding coastal
areas of New York,  New Jersey  and Connecticut, which suffered
the most damage.  Purchasing Bonds  The  Teachers Retirement System , with board members chosen
by the union, Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  and city Comptroller  John Liu , will make investments in the form of bonds purchased from
owners of the projects or by taking an equity stake, said Liu,
who acts as custodian of New York’s $128 billion pension system.
The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News parent
Bloomberg LP.  The city has five pension funds that provide benefits to
teachers, school administrators, firefighters, police and civil
servants. Other funds may also participate in similar projects,
Liu said in an interview last week. Projects will be selected by
investment professionals in Liu’s office, who will make
recommendations to the trustees, Liu said.  Today’s proposal represents an expansion of a program the
comptroller’s office has used since the 1980s to advise pension
funds in allocating 2 percent of their assets for so-called
economically targeted investments. Those deals provide capital
for projects in New York’s poor and working-class neighborhoods,
Liu said last week.  The pension fund’s pledge is part of a commitment national
labor leaders made last June at a meeting of Clinton’s Global
Initiative to provide capital and skilled workers in projects to
improve the  U.S. economy , the Global Initiative said in a news
release. Clinton’s nonprofit organization convenes world leaders
every year to share ideas and policies dealing with social and
environmental issues.  U.S. Housing Secretary Shaun Donovan and  Randi Weingarten ,
president of the American Federation of Teachers, joined
Clinton, Liu and Mulgrew to make the announcement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York City Hall at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  