-- NYU President Sexton May Face No-Confidence Vote on Expansion
-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 2012-12-13T18:23:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/nyu-president-sexton-may-face-no-confidence-vote-on-expansion.html
Professors in New York University’s
largest school will decide today whether President John Sexton
should face a no-confidence vote because of his failure to
consult with them about expansion.  The Faculty of Arts and Sciences will vote from 2 p.m. to 4
p.m. on whether to put confidence in Sexton to a test, according
an e-mail from James Uleman, chairman of the faculty’s senate
caucus. If the measure passes, the no-confidence vote will take
place next week, the e-mail said.  Sexton has opened NYU campuses and study centers in the
Middle East,  Europe , Asia and South America, and has city
approval to for new construction in New York’s Greenwich Village
neighborhood. Criticism of Sexton for failing to include faculty
discussions of how the university’s makeover affects the
academic environment have been increasing, said Andrew Ross, a
professor of social and cultural analysis.  “The Sexton administration has been exercising unilateral
decision making in changing the face of the university,” he
said today in a telephone interview. “The faculty feel more and
more like managed employees.”  NYU’s  Board of Trustees  continues to support Sexton and his
strategy for building the school, Chairman Martin Lipton said in
a statement.  “Its transformation from a regional university into a
university that stands shoulder-to-shoulder with the world’s
most revered universities is a legendary accomplishment,” he
said in the statement. “The trustees’ hope is that the
community commits itself to sustaining that spirit of
progress.”  Growing Concerned  NYU professors are growing increasingly concerned about the
school’s presence in Abu Dhabi and  China , where there are
restrictions on academic freedom, Ross said. Sexton has ignored
faculty requests for him to speak out against the detainment of
professors from other universities in Abu Dhabi, said Ross, who
is also a president of NYU’s chapter of the  American Association
of University Professors , a Washington-based advocacy group.  Faculty have expressed concern that NYU’s presence in these
countries gives legitimacy to repressive governments and that
teachers may be required to work there, Ross said.  The expansion in Greenwich Village also puts pressure on
the school to raise funds while many of its students face
crushing debt, he said.  “I can only conclude that the student-debt burden is going
to increase because of this growth,” Ross said.  Debt Burden  Tuition and fees at NYU cost $40,082 in the 2010-2011
academic year, and the full cost of attendance for students
living on campus was about $56,700, according to the  Institute
for College Access & Success , a Washington-based advocacy group.
The same year, about half of NYUs graduating seniors had student
loans, with an average debt of $36,351 per borrower, the group
said. At Harvard University, by comparison, about 34 percent of
graduating students had student loans, with an average debt per
borrower of $11,780.  While the faculty has had differences with Sexton that
could be addressed with more communication, a no-confidence vote
on Sexton would be premature, said Jess Benhabib, an economics
professor.  “The measure is quite extreme,” he said in a telephone
interview. “There are some issues about governance and some
issues about consultation with the faculty. Those are best
addressed by engaging in a dialogue.”  If the faculty decides to move ahead, the no-confidence
vote would take place electronically from Dec. 17 through
midnight Dec. 21. The resolution, “The Faculty of Arts and
Sciences has no confidence in John Sexton’s leadership,” would
be the only item on the ballot, Uleman’s e-mail said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Lauerman in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  