-- Obama Meets Boehner at White House for Budget Talks
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r   a n d   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2012-12-14T15:55:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/obama-meeting-boehner-at-white-house-today-for-budget-talks-1-.html
President  Barack Obama  and House
Speaker John Boehner met for a third time at the White House to
discuss averting spending cuts and tax increases before a year-
end deadline.  Boehner and Obama met for almost an hour late yesterday,
with no public announcement of progress. In January, more than
$600 billion in spending cuts and tax increases, the so-called
fiscal cliff, are scheduled to begin.  “The president and speaker had a frank meeting in the Oval
Office,” Boehner spokesman  Brendan Buck  said in an e-mailed
statement, adding that the “lines of communication remain
open.”  As was the case following their most recent meeting on Dec.
9, the White House and Boehner’s office issued almost identical
statements. Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner attended
yesterday’s session, according to an administration official who
sought anonymity.  Obama and Boehner have been stymied in negotiations, with
the president and congressional Democrats saying they won’t
discuss spending cuts unless Republicans agree to higher tax
rates for top earners. Republicans are insisting on reductions
to entitlement programs such as Medicare.  White House and congressional officials told their staffs
this week that they may be spending the holidays in Washington,
as both sides publicly refused to budge from their positions.
Boehner is scheduled to travel to his home state of  Ohio  for the
weekend without any indication that the two sides have narrowed
their differences.  Direct Negotiations  Obama has been negotiating directly with Boehner, with the
two keeping other leaders of their parties informed. Obama and
Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, a Nevada Democrat, spoke by
phone yesterday, according to a Senate Democratic aide.  The two parties remain hundreds of billions of dollars
apart on taxes and spending, and they continue to disagree on
whether a year-end deal should include a  debt-limit  increase and
programs to boost the economy.  Obama this week reduced his demand for new tax revenue to
$1.4 trillion from $1.6 trillion. Boehner, who has proposed $800
billion in new tax revenue paired with $900 billion in cuts to
entitlement programs, has said Obama’s plan couldn’t be passed
by the Republican-controlled House or the Democratic-controlled
Senate.  ‘Offshore Gimmicks’  Senator Carl Levin, a Michigan Democrat, said on a
conference call with reporters today that any attempt to use the
current debate to start a corporate tax overhaul should raise
money by limiting companies’ “offshore gimmicks.”  Congress is “considering major cuts in education and
Medicare and national defense and a whole lot of critical
programs, and at the same time corporate taxes, effective tax
rates are continuing to go down,” Levin said.  Passing any agreement through the House wouldn’t be easy,
Representative  Jason Chaffetz , a Utah Republican, said in an
interview.  “Everybody knows it’s going to be a tough set of votes and
issues,” said Chaffetz. “We want to get on with it and not
drag this out with seconds left on the scoreboard. There is a
clear understanding that no one person is going to get
everything they want.”  Boehner yesterday repeated his insistence that the
president’s budget proposal was “anything but” balanced and
accused Obama of not being serious about cutting spending.  ‘Risk Remains’  Still, the speaker, during his weekly news conference,
didn’t rule out allowing a House vote on extending tax cuts for
income up to $250,000 a year for married couples, as Obama has
demanded, if a broader tax-and-spending deal isn’t reached soon.  “The law of the land today is that everyone’s income taxes
are going to go up on Jan. 1,” Boehner said when asked by
reporters if he would rule out such a vote. “I have made it
clear I think that is unacceptable. Until we get this issue
resolved, that risk remains.”  Reid said the Senate won’t consider a limited bill to avoid
an expansion of the alternative minimum tax or a cut in Medicare
reimbursements to physicians unless a broader budget deal is
reached that raises top earners’ tax rates.  “As long as they do something on rates, I am happy to talk
to them about anything,” Reid said in an interview. Pressed on
whether he would refuse to advance a smaller-scale bill if
Republicans won’t budge on rates, he said, “That’s right.”  Eligibility Age  House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi took a similarly hard
line, telling reporters that talk of deeper spending cuts
demanded by Republicans should await discussions on a tax-code
overhaul next year.  “Don’t even think about using” an increase in the
Medicare eligibility age to reduce spending, said Pelosi, a
California Democrat. She added that Democrats won’t throw
“America’s seniors over the cliff to give a tax cut to the
wealthiest in America.”  Sixty-five percent of Americans say Obama has a mandate for
his plan to increase taxes for top earners, according to a
Bloomberg National Poll of 1,000 adults conducted Dec. 7-10.
Majorities of about 2-to-1 also saw the election results as an
endorsement of Obama’s pledge to protect Social Security and
Medicare benefits.  U.S. stocks retreated, extending yesterday’s drop. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.2 percent to 1,416.32 at
10:03 a.m. New York time. The Dow Jones Industrial Average
dropped 5.48 points, or less than 0.1 percent, to 13,165.24.se.
Treasuries rose for the first time in four days as the yield on
the benchmark 10-year note decreased two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 1.71 percent at 9:22 a.m. New York time.  Parallel Tax  The alternative minimum tax, a parallel tax system created
to ensure that wealthy individuals couldn’t avoid all taxes, is
scheduled to affect about 28 million additional households for
tax year 2012, up from about 4 million otherwise.  Without legislation to prevent that, the Internal Revenue
Service has said it would delay tax filing scheduled to start in
January until at least late March for more than 60 million
filers. Action isn’t required, though inaction would cost
taxpayers $92 billion in early 2013, according to the
nonpartisan Joint Committee on Taxation.  If Congress doesn’t act by Jan. 1, Medicare payments to
physicians will drop by 26.5 percent. Lawmakers regularly act to
prevent the cut or restore it retroactively in what has become
known as the “doc fix.”  Doctors’ Reimbursement  Senator Dick Durbin of  Illinois , the chamber’s second-
ranking Democrat, told reporters that Democratic leaders met
with physicians who were concerned about the cut in
reimbursement rates.  Senator Charles Schumer of New York told reporters that
Obama has the upper hand in the negotiations and will stick to
his demand that tax rates rise for top earners.  “The election was fought on revenues, we won it on
revenues, the public is with us on revenues, and if they don’t
come to a compromise, all the ensuing problems on Jan. 1, almost
all of them, will really be on their shoulders, and I think the
public knows that,” Schumer said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in  Washington  at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net ;
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  