-- Obama to Meet Karzai to Talk of U.S. Troops After 2014
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-12-13T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/obama-to-meet-karzai-to-talk-of-u-s-troops-after-2014.html
Immunity from prosecution for U.S.
soldiers in Afghanistan by that nation’s government and control
over the detention of Afghan suspects may top the agenda when
President  Barack Obama  and Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  meet in
 Washington  next month.  “The question of immunity for U.S. troops is of tremendous
importance to the U.S.,” Karzai said yesterday at a news
conference in Kabul with U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta .
“We in Afghanistan have certain important issues as well,”
including “question of detentions and taking of detainees that
directly touch on Afghan sovereignty.”  Panetta said Karzai had accepted Obama’s invitation to
visit Washington during the week of Jan. 7. The U.S. and
Afghanistan are attempting to negotiate a “status of forces
agreement” for an American military contingent to provide air
support, training and other assistance after 2014, when Obama
has pledged to remove most of the 66,000 U.S. forces now in the
country.  The U.S. pulled its remaining troops out of  Iraq  last year
after failing to reach an accord on immunity.  Before “I can go to the Afghan people and speak on the
subject of U.S. troops’ immunity,” Karzai said yesterday he
needs agreement in a continuing dispute over whether the U.S.
can hold Afghan suspects as well as assurances that the U.S.
will protect  Afghanistan ’s interests in the region and help
build its military forces.  Meeting Commanders  Panetta, who visited Kabul and Kandahar, met with U.S.
commanders in the country to assess progress in training Afghan
military and police forces to take over the war against
insurgents after 2014.  U.S. Marine General John Allen, commander of coalition
forces in Afghanistan, is preparing proposals on the pace of
troop withdrawals. Panetta has said the decision may be made
within weeks.  U.S. commanders offered reporters traveling with Panetta a
mostly upbeat assessment of improving Afghan military
capabilities and waning enemy attacks.  The continuing threat of insurgent attacks was underscored
yesterday when a U.S. soldier died and three soldiers were hurt
in a suicide car-bomb attack near Kandahar, hours after Panetta
left the air base there. A number of Afghans also were injured
in the attack.  Taliban Strength  The insurgents are resorting to such attacks even as the
Afghan army and police are trying to secure large populated
areas, Panetta said.  “They are trying to stimulate chaos in the country, but
they will not be successful,” he said.  The attack, for which the Taliban claimed responsibility,
came a few hours after Army Major General Robert Abrams,
commander of the  International Security Assistance Force ’s
Regional Command-South based in Kandahar, told reporters that
the “security conditions are getting better every single day
and will continue to get better.”  The assessment contrasted with a Pentagon report on Dec. 10
that said insurgent safe havens in northwest Pakistan prevent
Afghanistan and its U.S.-led allies from achieving a “decisive
defeat” of the enemy.  “The Taliban-led insurgency and its al-Qaeda affiliates
still operate from sanctuaries in Pakistan,” according to the
report’s executive summary. “The insurgency’s safe havens in
Pakistan, the limited institutional capacity of the Afghan
government and endemic corruption remain the greatest risks to
long-term stability and sustainable security in Afghanistan.”  Covering Border  The area overseen by the regional command shares a 550-
kilometer (342-mile) border with  Pakistan , so the entire border
couldn’t be covered even if every Afghan soldier in the region
were placed “shoulder-to-shoulder,” Abrams said.  He said the Taliban’s capabilities were “pretty limited”
and “they have failed at every one of their objectives.” The
insurgent group, whose home base is Kandahar, has tried and
failed to regain territory, Abrams said.  Asked if such success might lead to an accelerated drawdown
of U.S. forces in 2013, Abrams said, “The terrain to the west
and south is the most important and decisive terrain for
Kandahar. And the enemy, even though he’s pushed out, is coming
back and is going to continue what I call the drumbeat to
maintain his relevance and get back into the communities.”  While the Pentagon report said only one of 23 Afghan
brigades was ranked as capable of operating independently with
advisers, Afghan forces are now taking the lead in most
operations, U.S. Marine Corps Major General Lawrence Nicholson
told reporters Dec. 12 in Kabul.  The international security force “is not doing ops,”
Nicholson, said referring to military operations. The Afghan
National Security Forces are carrying out operations and “we’re
supporting,” he said.  After 2014, U.S. troops remaining in the country will
probably be responsible only for close-air support because the
Afghan  air force  is still weak, Nicholson said. “We have 24
months to get that right.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Kabul at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  