-- OCI Gains Most Since September on Recovery Bets: Seoul Mover
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 2012-12-13T07:48:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/oci-has-biggest-advance-since-may-on-recovery-bets-seoul-mover.html
OCI Co. (010060) , South Korea’s biggest
polysilicon maker for solar cells, rallied the most in three
months in Seoul trading on speculation demand from China and the
U.S. will help the solar industry to recover.  Shares of OCI added 3.8 percent to 164,500 won at the close
on the Korea Exchange, the steepest gain since Sept. 14. The
benchmark Kospi index added 1.4 percent.  Chinese solar manufacturers jumped yesterday in  New York 
after separate reports indicated China’s government is adding
financial support for an industry struggling with falling
prices. Developers installed 684 megawatts of solar panels in
the U.S. in the third quarter, 44 percent more than a year
earlier, according to a statement from the  Solar Energy
Industries Association .  “Expectations of a recovery on demand from  China  and the
U.S have driven the share-price gain,” Choi Ji Hwan, an analyst
at NH Investment & Securities Co., wrote in a report today.
“The industry will gradually come out of the bottom.”  China allocated 13 billion  yuan  ($2 billion) in subsidies
for domestic solar companies this year, the Xinhua News Agency
reported yesterday. The Shanghai Securities News said officials
may double their target for solar installations. The Ministry of
Science and Technology confirmed subsidies for more than 100
developers including Yingli Green Energy Holding Co.  LDK Solar Co. (LDK) , the world’s second-largest maker of solar
wafers, and panel maker Yingli both surged at least 15 percent
in New York yesterday.  Falling product prices led  LG Chem Ltd. (051910)  to delay its
polysilicon investment plan, while Hankook Silicon Co. filed for
receivership with the Seoul Central District Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  