-- Crude Drops From 1-Week High Amid Disagreement on Budget
-- B y   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y   a n d   R a m s e y   A l - R i k a b i
-- 2012-12-13T12:51:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/oil-drops-from-one-week-high-amid-disagreement-on-u-s-budget.html
Oil slid from the highest level in a
week as U.S. lawmakers disagreed on steps to avert automatic
spending cuts and tax increases that take effect on Jan. 1 and
threaten to curb economic growth and fuel demand.  Futures dropped as much as 0.6 percent in London after
rising the most in three weeks yesterday on a plan by the
Federal Reserve to expand its monetary stimulus. Republicans
have “some serious differences” with President  Barack Obama ’s
budget proposals, House Speaker John Boehner told reporters in
 Washington . The Fed’s bond purchases can’t offset full effects
of the so-called fiscal cliff, Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said.  “Market participants are jittery over the fiscal cliff
even though experience shows that agreement won’t come until
five minutes before the deadline,” Thorbjorn Bak Jensen, an oil
market analyst at Global Risk Management in Middelfart,  Denmark ,
said by telephone. “The Fed is printing money, and a lot of it
is already priced in.”  Brent for January settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange declined as much as 65 cents to $108.85
a barrel and was at $108.97 at 12:49 p.m.  London  time. It
climbed 1.4 percent yesterday, or $1.49 a barrel, the most since
Nov. 19. The European benchmark crude has advanced 1.5 percent
this year.  West Texas Intermediate crude for January delivery on the
New York Mercantile Exchange fell 60 cents to $86.17 a barrel in
electronic trading. The contract advanced 98 cents to $86.77
yesterday, the highest close since Dec. 5. New York-traded WTI
has declined 13 percent in the year.  Brent was at a premium of $22.83 to WTI.  Candid Discussion  The prospect of more than $600 billion in spending cuts and
tax increases is “clearly” having an effect on the economy,
Bernanke said yesterday. Boehner said he and the president were
frank about “how far apart we are” when they spoke in a phone
call on Dec. 11.  Oil rose yesterday after the Federal Reserve said it will
buy $45 billion a month in Treasury securities to boost economic
growth in the U.S., the world’s biggest crude consumer. The
purchase will be in addition to $40 billion a month of mortgage-
debt the central bank is currently buying.  The decision “creates a bit of a base” for commodity
prices, said Ric Spooner, a chief market analyst at CMC Markets
in Sydney. “It means that the pullback in prices from these
levels will be fairly shallow.”  Oil in New York has technical support along an upward-
sloping trend line on the daily chart, around $85.80 a barrel
today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Futures
yesterday rebounded from this line, which connects the intraday
lows of June and November. Buy orders tend to be clustered near
chart-support levels.  U.S. Stockpiles  The Brent-WTI spread widened yesterday for a fourth day to
$22.73, the most since Nov. 28, after the Energy Department
reported a surge in stockpiles at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the
delivery point for the U.S. contract. Supplies gained 1.2
million barrels to 46.8 million in the week ending Dec. 7, the
highest since June 29.  Inventories nationwide increased  843,000 barrels , the
report showed. They were forecast to decline 2.5 million
barrels, according to the median estimate of 11 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Gasoline stockpiles climbed 5 million barrels to 217.1
million, more than double a median 2 million gain forecast in
the survey. Distillate fuel inventories, including diesel and
heating oil, were up 3 million barrels at 118.1 million, beating
a 1.1 million estimate.  OPEC’s Rollover  OPEC kept its production target unchanged for a second time
this year as members judged prices to be sufficiently high. The
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, which pumps about
40 percent of the world’s crude, maintained its output target at
30 million barrels a day, a level it now exceeds by about 1
million. The 12-member group failed to elect a new secretary-
general at a meeting yesterday in Vienna and agreed to extend
the term of Abdalla El-Badri for one more year.  El-Badri, speaking today at a news conference in the
Austrian capital, urged members to pare output and adhere to the
group’s production ceiling.  “Supply side is clearly dominating since it’s expected to
be stronger than demand growth in 2013,” said  Hannes Loacker ,
an analyst at  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI)  in Vienna. “No
surprise that OPEC left the ceiling unchanged, but it’s
important that Saudi Arabia sticks to the quota.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in Singapore at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net ;
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  