-- Oil Falls First Time in Three Days on Budget Talks
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-12-13T20:02:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/oil-drops-first-time-in-three-days-on-u-s-retail-sales.html
Oil fell for the first time in three
days as House Speaker  John Boehner  said the White House isn’t
serious about cutting spending and U.S. retail sales increased
less than expected in November.  Prices dropped 1 percent after budget-compromise talks
stalled, with both White House and congressional officials
saying no progress had been made. Sales rose 0.3 percent last
month, the Commerce Department said. The  median  forecast of 81
economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a 0.5 percent gain.  “The budget debates seem to have the market’s focus right
now,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at Tradition
Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “There are worries about
whether we are going to get some agreements coming out of
 Washington . There is a lot of uncertainty in the economy.”  Crude for January delivery fell 88 cents to settle at
$85.89 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices are
down 13 percent this year.  Brent for January settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange slid $1.59, or 1.5 percent, to end the
session at $107.91 a barrel.  Lawmakers from both parties expressed renewed pessimism
about the prospects of reaching a deal before more than $600
billion in tax increases and spending cuts known as the fiscal
cliff start taking effect in January.  Fiscal Cliff  “Unfortunately, the White House is so unserious about
cutting spending that it appears willing to slow-walk our
economy right up to -- and over -- the fiscal cliff,” Boehner
said in remarks prepared for a briefing in Washington.  House Democratic Leader  Nancy Pelosi , a California
Democrat, told reporters today that any talk of deeper spending
cuts demanded by Republicans should await discussions on a tax
overhaul next year.  Oil also fell on slower-than-expected growth in November
retail sales following a 0.3 percent decrease in October,
Commerce Department data showed. Car sales jumped to a four-year
high, in part because Americans in  Hurricane Sandy ’s path
replaced damaged vehicles.  “People are really looking at retail sales and it’s a
major indicator of economic growth,” said Bill Baruch, a senior
market strategist at Iitrader.com in  Chicago . “The market is
also concerned about the talks in Washington.”  U.S. Economy  Consumer confidence  in the U.S. stagnated last week,
showing a lack of improvement since October. The Bloomberg
Consumer Comfort Index slipped to minus 34.5 in the period ended
Dec. 9, the lowest level in six weeks.  The U.S., the world’s biggest oil-consuming country, used
18.8 million barrels a day in 2011, or 21 percent of the global
total, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical Review of World Energy.  “We are still mired in sluggish growth,” McGillian said.
“We have plenty of supplies and weak underlying fundamentals.”  U.S. gasoline stockpiles climbed 5 million barrels to 217.1
million in the week ended Dec. 7, the most since April 6, the
Energy Department said yesterday. The gain followed a jump of
7.86 million barrels in the week ended Nov. 30. Crude  supplies 
rose 843,000 last week.  U.S. gasoline demand slid 3.7 percent last week to 8.52
million barrels a day, the lowest level since Nov. 16, according
to data from  MasterCard Inc. (MA)   The gasoline-supply gain “comes on the back of the big
increase the week before and further underscores poor gasoline
demand that we’ve seen in the country,” McGillian said.  OPEC Output  Members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries should trim crude output so that total production is
in line with the group’s 30 million barrel-a-day quota limit,
OPEC Secretary-General Abdalla El-Badri said today in a briefing
in Vienna.  OPEC nations are currently pumping about 1.5 million
barrels a day more than the quota, according to Bloomberg
estimates. The 12-nation group reaffirmed its production target
at a meeting yesterday in the Austrian capital.  Oil also followed declines in stocks. The  Standard & Poor’s
500 Index (SPX)  fell for the first time in seven days.  Crude gained earlier as first-time claims for  unemployment
insurance  declined to a nine-week low. Applications for  jobless
benefits  fell to 343,000 in the week ended Dec. 8, the fewest
since Oct. 6.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 414,654
contracts as of 3:02 p.m. Volume totaled 722,130 contracts
yesterday, 38 percent more than the three-month average and the
highest level in a month. Open interest was 1.55 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Moming Zhou in  New York  at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 