-- Home Seizures Rise as Banks Adjust to Foreclosure Flow
-- B y   D a n   L e v y
-- 2012-12-13T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/home-seizures-rise-as-banks-adjust-to-foreclosure-flow.html
Home  seizures  in the U.S. rose 5.4
percent last month, the first annual gain in two years, as
lenders seek to manage the flow of distressed properties without
disrupting the housing recovery, according to RealtyTrac.  Banks repossessed 59,134 homes, up from 56,124 from
November 2011, the  Irvine , California-based data firm said today
in a report. The increase was the first since October 2010, when
foreclosures slowed after allegations that lenders were using
faulty practices to take property from delinquent homeowners.
Seizures climbed 11 percent from the previous month.  “Lenders have figured out how to play the foreclosure game
in this new world where they’re getting a lot more scrutiny,”
 Daren Blomquist , RealtyTrac vice president, said in a telephone
interview. “Everybody involved in the foreclosure industry has
finally got a good handle on how to manage these properties to
create a more managed and stable flow.”  The five largest lenders in February agreed to a $25
billion settlement of the charges and have since been pursuing
 foreclosure  alternatives such as short sales, where a property
is sold for less than the amount owed. Repossessions since March
have slowed to fewer than 60,000 a month, an “acceptable”
level for servicers that previously had struggled to process a
flood of distressed homes, Blomquist said.  In the peak year of 2010, banks took back an average of
87,542 homes a month on the way to a record 1.05 million
completed foreclosures, according to RealtyTrac.  ‘Less Charged’  Lenders have adapted to state measures that slowed
repossessions beyond delays caused by the U.S. mortgage probe,
such as a  Nevada  law making harder to file initial default
notices, and can now better predict the overhang of distressed
homes, Blomquist said. The re-election of President  Barack Obama 
also removed some uncertainty from the housing market, he said.  “With the political environment less charged, I don’t
think we’ll see another spate of laws holding lenders
accountable, and there won’t be these bank-owned homes dragging
down the market to the extent they have in the past,” Blomquist
said.  Default, auction and repossession notices were sent to
180,817 homes in November, down 19 percent from a year earlier
and 26th straight month with an annual decline, RealtyTrac said
in the report. One in every 728 households received a filing.  Home seizures rose in 29 states and the  District of
Columbia , led by increases of 96 percent in  Indiana , 88 percent
in Arkansas and 87 percent in  Missouri . Repossessions declined
in 21 states, falling 64 percent in Nevada, 58 percent in  Oregon 
and 49 percent in Massachusetts, RealtyTrac said.  Florida had the highest foreclosure rate, one in 304
households, up 3 percent from the previous month and 20 percent
from a year earlier. Nevada followed at one in 390, and Illinois
was third at one in 392, according to RealtyTrac, which sells
default data from more than 2,200 counties representing 90
percent of the  U.S. population .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  