-- TOP Oil Market News: Crude Drops From Highest Price in a Week
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   K w i a t k o w s k i
-- 2012-12-13T07:49:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/top-oil-market-news-crude-drops-from-highest-price-in-a-week.html
The following is a selection of the
most important news affecting the oil market.  Oil Drops From One-Week High Amid Disagreement on U.S. Budget  Oil slid from the highest level in a week as U.S. lawmakers
disagreed on measures to avert automatic spending cuts and tax
increases known as the fiscal cliff that threaten to curb
economic growth and fuel demand.  Oil at $60 or $120 Doesn’t Prevent U.S. Supplanting Saudi Arabia  The U.S. is almost free of depending on imported energy and
positioned to supplant Saudi Arabia as the world’s No. 1
producer of oil, whether crude costs $60 a barrel or twice that
amount.  Natural Gas $4 Cap Seen in 2013 as Supply Swells: Energy Markets  U.S. natural gas’s rebound from four years of declines is
likely to peter out in 2013 as power-plant demand drops and
supplies rise to a record.  SK Innovation Said to Buy Sokol Crude for February Loading (1)  SK Innovation Co. bought 95,000 metric tons of Russian
Sokol crude for loading from Feb. 9 to Feb. 18 from OAO Rosneft,
said two traders who asked not to be identified because they
aren’t authorized to speak to the media.  China Oil Refining to Rise 4.1% in Dec. From Nov., C1 Says  China is expected to process as much as 42.2 million metric
tons of oil this month, 4.1 percent higher than November, C1
Energy said on its website today  Goldman Energy Research Head Greely Leaves for Bridgewater (1)  David Greely, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s head of energy
research, is joining Bridgewater Associates LP, according a
spokeswoman for Bridgewater.  YPF Said to Be Potential Bidder for Petrobras Argentine Assets  YPF SA,  Argentina ’s largest energy company, will bid for
any assets that Petroleo Brasileiro SA wants to sell in
Argentina, a YPF official said today.  Asia’s Fuel Oil Crack Widens; Gasoil Swaps Advance: Oil Products  Asia’s fuel oil crack spread widened for a third day this
week, signaling increased losses for refiners turning crude into
residual products. Gasoil swaps rose to a one-week high.  Gas Inventory Drop Was 97% Below Historical Norm, Forecasts Show  Last week’s withdrawal from U.S. natural gas inventories
was down 97 percent from the historical norm for that period as
above-normal temperatures cut heating- fuel demand, analyst
forecasts compiled by Bloomberg show.  Natural Gas Falls to 10-Week Low on Outlook for Inventory Drop  Natural gas futures dropped to the lowest price in more
than 10 weeks amid forecasts of a smaller- than-normal inventory
decline.  U.S. to Award $169 Million to Seven Offshore Wind Projects  The U.S. Department of Energy will award as much as $169
million to seven proposed offshore wind projects in six states.  Natural Gas Fluctuates Near 6-Week Low on Stockpile Outlook  Natural gas futures fluctuated near a six-week low in New
York amid forecasts of a smaller-than- normal inventory decline
last week.  U.S. Oil Supply: Comparison of Weekly API, DOE Figures (Table)  The following table provides a  comparison between the U.S.
Department of Energy’s crude-oil statistics for the week ended
Dec. 7 and the data from the American Petroleum Institute, an
industry-funded group.  U.S. and Partners Agree to Offer Revised Nuclear Deal to Iran  The U.S. and its partners have hammered out a revised deal
to offer  Iran , aimed at persuading the Islamic Republic to
curtail nuclear activities that might be used to produce an
atomic bomb.  U.S. Stocks Gain While Dollar Weakens as Fed Announces Bond Buys  U.S. stocks rose for a sixth day, the longest rally since
August, while the dollar weakened after the Federal Reserve
announced plans to buy more Treasuries to boost growth. Oil
climbed on forecasts for stronger demand.  REFINERIES Map global refinery outages  Motiva Port Arthur Refinery Shuts New Crude Unit After Fire (1)  Motiva Enterprises LLC has shut the new 325,000-barrel-a-
day crude unit at its Port Arthur, Texas, refinery, the largest
in the U.S., after a fire.  Cenovus Energy Forecasts Decline in 2013 Cash Flow on Prices (2)  Cenovus Energy Inc., the Canadian oil producer planning to
more than triple output in the next decade, said cash flow will
probably fall in 2013 because of lower crude prices.  Tesoro Eyes Rail to Ship Bakken, Canadian Crudes to California  Tesoro Corp. is exploring rail and tanker projects to move
more oil to its California refineries from  Canada  and the Bakken
shale play in North Dakota.  Motiva Port Arthur Oil Refinery Shuts New Crude Unit After Fire  Motiva Enterprises LLC has shut the new 325,000-barrel-a-
day crude unit at its Port Arthur, Texas, refinery, the largest
in the U.S., after a fire.  Cenovus Energy Forecasts Decline in 2013 Cash Flow on Prices (1)  Cenovus Energy Inc., the Canadian oil producer planning to
more than triple output in the next decade, said cash flow will
probably fall in 2013 because of lower crude prices.  Motiva Port Arthur Said to Shut New Crude Unit After Fire (1)  Motiva Enterprises LLC has shut the new 325,000-barrel-a-
day crude unit at its Port Arthur, Texas, refinery after a fire,
a person with knowledge of the situation said.  Asia Naphtha Crack Drops; Hin Leong Sells Gasoil: Oil Products  Asia’s naphtha crack spread shrank, signaling eroding
profit for refiners. Hin Leong Trading Pte sold gasoil and jet
fuel cargoes in  Singapore , the region’s largest oil-trading
center.  Exxon Mobil Has Emissions at Baton Rouge Plant, NRC Filing Shows  Exxon Mobil Corp. released gases from its Baton Rouge,
 Louisiana , oil refinery and chemical plant, including 100 pounds
of hydrogen sulfide and 500 pounds of sulfur dioxide, according
to a filing with the U.S. National Response Center. The release
occurred at a flare after a planned shutdown “to support
mechanical activities at the SACC unit”, according to the
notice.  SK Innovation Plans Maintenance at Ulsan Crude Units Next Year  SK Innovation Co., owner of South Korea’s biggest oil
refinery, plans to shut two crude-processing units at its Ulsan
facility for maintenance in March and in May, according to a
company official.  OTHER OIL MARKET NEWS  TOP Oil Market News: Crude Rises; IEA Raises Oil Demand Forecast  The following is a selection of the most important news
affecting the oil market.  Oil Product Shipping Costs to Japan Are Unchanged  The cost of shipping a gallon of gasoline, jet fuel or
other so-called clean petroleum products from the Middle East to
 Japan  was unchanged at 11.47 U.S. cents yesterday, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The cost is based on a cargo of
55,000 metric tons.  Oil-Tanker Rates Slide for Fourth Day as Ship Surplus Increases  Returns for the biggest oil tankers hauling Middle East
crude to Asia, the industry’s benchmark route, declined for a
fourth session as a surplus of available ships increased.  TOP ENERGY STORIES  Barge Captain Dodges Rocks as Drought Shrinks Mississippi (1)  Sandbars no one can remember seeing above water are visible
from the wheelhouse of the Capt. Bill Stewart as it churns past
Hanging Dog Bluff on the Mississippi River south of St. Louis, a
warning of more treacherous conditions ahead.  OPEC Keeps Output Quota Stable as Prices Sufficiently High (2)  OPEC kept its production target unchanged for a second time
this year as the group’s members judged prices are sufficiently
high amid forecasts that supply will outpace demand for their
crude in 2013.  Crude Rises as IEA Boosts Demand Forecast; OPEC Maintains Quota  Brent crude rose to a five-day high after the International
Energy Agency increased its oil demand forecast for 2013 and as
OPEC ministers completed their meeting in Vienna to discuss
production limits.  Petrobras Austerity Seen in 23-Cent Lupatech Debt:  Brazil  Credit  Lupatech SA bonds have become the most distressed in Brazil
as the company’s reliance on Petroleo Brasilero SA backfires
amid the state-controlled oil producer’s move to wring
concessions from its suppliers.  World’s Largest Profit at Gazprom Pays for Putin’s Pipes: Energy  The world’s most profitable energy company is being
punished by investors who are concerned it’s also the biggest
spendthrift.  U.K. Said to Lift Fracking Ban in Effort to Boost Gas Production  U.K. Energy Secretary  Ed Davey   will rescind a ban on
shale-gas exploration, opening the door for Cuadrilla Resources
Ltd. to resume its activities, according to a person familiar
with the decision.  Williams Bets $2.4 Billion on Pipe Venture Chesapeake Quit (2  Williams Cos., the third-largest U.S. pipeline company, is
betting as much as $2.4 billion it can profit from a shale-
pipeline partnership that Chesapeake Energy Corp. exited earlier
this year.  Faroe Petroleum Seeks Iceland Oil by Tapping  Norway  for Data (1)  Faroe Petroleum Plc, the North Atlantic energy explorer
hoping to produce Iceland’s first oil, expects Norway to release
confidential files on potential crude deposits off the island
nation, accelerating its work.  Batista Said to Pledge Extra EBX Stake to Back Mubadala Deal (3)  Eike Batista , the Brazilian billionaire who sold a $2
billion interest in his commodities empire to Abu Dhabi’s
Mubadala Development Co., pledged an additional stake that
shields the fund from the selloff in his publicly traded
companies, according to a person familiar with the transaction.  Deutsche Bank’s Fitschen Subject of Criminal CO2 Tax Probe (1)  Deutsche Bank AG co-Chief Executive Officer  Juergen
Fitschen  and Stefan Krause, the firm’s chief financial officer,
are subjects of a tax probe involving the sale of carbon-
emission certificates that led to five arrests and police raids
on the lender’s Frankfurt offices.  OTHER MARKETS  Asian Stocks Gain an 11th Day as Yen Weakens After Fed Stimulus  Asian stocks climbed for an 11th day, led by Japanese
shares as the yen’s drop to a more than eight-month low helped
the nation’s exporters. South Korea’s won strengthened after the
Federal Reserve announced further monetary stimulus. Commodities
declined.  Yen Touches 9-Month Low Before Tankan Data Amid Easing Prospects  The yen fell to the weakest level in almost nine months
against the dollar before the Bank of Japan’s Tankan survey
tomorrow, which economists say will show big manufacturers in
the nation grew more pessimistic.  Korean Won Rises to 15-Month High on Fed Stimulus; Bonds Decline  South Korea’s won strengthened to a 15-month high after the
Federal Reserve said it will expand asset purchases that boost
the supply of dollars. Government bonds fell.  Asian Stocks Advance, Led by Japanese Exporters, as Yen Weakens  Asian stocks rose, with the regional benchmark index
extending its longest rally in more than three years, as
Japanese exporters advanced after the yen touched an almost
nine-month low versus the dollar.  Emerging-Market Stocks Rise for Seventh Day on Monetary Stimulus  Emerging-market stocks rose for a seventh day, led by
technology companies, and currencies strengthened after the U.S.
Federal Reserve expanded its bond- buying program and the
outlook for display makers improved.  Oil-to-Metals Bank Staff Retreating for Second Year: Commodities  Investment banks are cutting commodity staff for a second
year and pay will probably drop for a third time as revenue
declines, bonuses shrink and new regulations limit how much
money traders can risk.  GrainCorp Rejects Higher A$2.8 Billion ADM Offer as Too Low (2)  GrainCorp Ltd., the largest grain handler in eastern
 Australia , rejected Archer-Daniels-Midland Co.’s higher A$2.8
billion ($3 billion) bid as too low.  Lawmakers Warn Deadlocked Budget Talks May Extend Past Holiday  White House and congressional officials warned their staffs
that they may be spending the holidays at their desks in
 Washington , as both sides publicly refused to budge from their
positions on taxes and spending.  N. Korea Rocket Tests Incoming Leaders From Tokyo to Beijing (1)  North Korea’s improving missile capability cast a shadow on
political campaigns in two of its neighbors, heightening focus
on a potential threat that may prompt Japan to stiffen its
defense posture and provide a bump to South Korea’s conservative
candidate.  SPORTS  Arsenal CEO Apologizes to Fans, Mirror Says: Soccer Roundup  The following is a roundup of soccer stories from U.K.
newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Ex-Banker Aims to Help Soccer Scouts Hunting for Another Messi  Soccer teams are using video more than ever to find new
players, although scouts say there’s no substitute for the naked
eye.  Swansea Beats Middlesbrough to Reach First League Cup Semifinal  Swansea City beat Middlesbrough 1-0 to advance to the
semifinals of English soccer’s League Cup for the first time.  ENERGY PRICES  Last    Chg  %Chg   Exch  Contract  ----   ----  ----   ----  --------
WTI Crude ($/Bbl)       86.57  -0.20  -0.2  Nymex      Jan.
Brent Crude ($/Bbl)    109.24  -0.26  -0.2    Ice undefined
Gasoil ($/Ton)         920.50  -2.50  -0.3    Ice      Jan.
Gasoline (c/Gal)       264.20  -0.45  -0.2  Nymex      Jan.
Natural gas ($/MMBtu)    3.37  -0.01  -0.3  Nymex      Jan.
Dated Brent ($/Bbl)    108.80  -0.11  -0.1    OTC   21 Days
Heating Oil            296.67  -0.01    --  Nymex      Jan.  Other markets:  Last  %Chg  ----- -----
Dollar Index            79.83    --
Gold ($/Oz)          1,717.90  +0.5
MSCI World Index     1,333.75  +0.1  Prices as of 6 a.m. GMT  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  