-- Oracle Acquires DataRaker to Expand in Smart Meters, Sensors
-- B y   R a n d a l l   H a c k l e y
-- 2012-12-13T18:14:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/oracle-acquires-dataraker-to-expand-in-smart-meters-sensors.html
Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , the largest database-
software supplier, agreed to purchase DataRaker Inc. to expand
in smart-grid analytics platforms that enable water, power and
other utilities to use data to increase efficiencies.  Terms weren’t disclosed by the second-biggest maker of
business management applications. Utilities are investing more
and more in infrastructure to collect “massive amounts of
data” from millions of smart meters and sensors, Redwood
Shores, California-based Oracle said today in a statement.  “Smart-grid analytics software is an increasingly
important area of investment and the acquisition follows several
others in the sector over the last year,” said Maxime Serrano
Bardisa, a water analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Besides Sausalito, California-based DataRaker, meter data
management vendors such as eMeter, now part of  Siemens AG (SIE) ,
Ecologic Analytics of  Toshiba Corp. (6502)  and  Itron Inc. (ITRI)  “have all
boosted the analytical capabilities of their products,” Serrano
Bardisa said from London. Oracle Utilities “competes closely
with each of these companies and the DataRaker acquisition helps
strengthen their position,” he said.  The global smart-grid market will reach $23.1 billion in
annual investments by 2017, up from $15.3 billion in 2012,
according to BNEF.  Another area of related growth is smart-water networks,
which may save utilities $12.5 billion a year using real-time
data from grid operations to help manage leakage and maintenance
needs, the utility infrastructure company Sensus said in a
report this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Hackley in  London  at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Randall Hackley at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net  