-- Morgan Stanley FICC Cuts May Go to 2017, Chen Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-12-13T23:46:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/morgan-stanley-ficc-cuts-may-go-to-2017-chen-says.html
Morgan Stanley may continue cutting
assets in its fixed-income business for another five years as it
seeks higher returns, said  Howard Chen , a Credit Suisse Group
Inc. analyst.  Morgan Stanley must return capital freed up by the
reductions to shareholders, buy the rest of its brokerage joint
venture and lower its funding and operating costs,  New York- 
based Chen wrote in a note to clients yesterday. Achieving those
goals can allow the firm, which will probably produce a 5
percent  return on tangible equity  this year, to earn a 9 percent
ROTE even without an improving environment, Chen said.  Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman  pledged to improve
returns as his bank’s stock has lagged below its book value for
more than two-and-a-half years. Gorman, 54, said in October that
it didn’t take “heroic assumptions” to see how his plans will
get the New York-based firm’s returns to its cost of capital,
usually estimated at around 10 percent.  “We believe franchise restoration, healthier market
conditions and the absence of new negatives from here should
drive further share-price outperformance,” Chen wrote.
“Further proof points and effectuation of the ROTE expansion
plan, with hopefully a better revenue backdrop, will drive a re-
rating of  Morgan Stanley (MS)  shares from still depressed
valuations.”  Morgan Stanley has laid out a plan to cut risk-weighted
assets in its fixed-income business, which were $390 billion a
year ago, to $255 billion by the end of 2014, under Basel III
rules. The firm will probably continue to wind down “longer-
duration exposures” for years after that to arrive at less than
$200 billion by 2017, Chen said.  Cost Savings  The bank has about $46 billion of non-productive assets
based on its low fixed-income revenue relative to its peers and
its size, Chen estimated. Those assets, including
uncollateralized over-the-counter derivative trades, face heavy
risk-weightings and may account for one-third of the firm’s $320
billion in RWAs.  Almost half of the estimated increase in the firm’s returns
will come from expense reduction, Chen wrote. The bank has
targeted $1.7 billion in cost savings over the next two years
from actions including completing the integration of its
brokerage and reducing the number of employees, he wrote.  Morgan Stanley can also increase pretax earnings by about
$370 million by buying the rest of its brokerage joint venture
and using the deposits gained to replace $22.5 billion of
maturing long-term debt over the next two years, Chen wrote.  There’s a “decent likelihood” Morgan Stanley will buy
Citigroup Inc.’s remaining 35 percent stake in the brokerage
next year, Chen said. Improvements in that business represent a
“low-risk” way to improve the firm’s returns, he wrote.  Morgan Stanley can raise earnings from its brokerage by
increasing lending and boosting adviser productivity, Chen said.
Mark Lake, a Morgan Stanley spokesman, declined to comment on
Chen’s note.  Morgan Stanley  gained  0.6 percent to $17.80 in  New York .
The shares have climbed 18 percent this year, compared with a 23
percent advance in the 81-company  Standard & Poor’s Financial
Index. (S5FINL)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  