-- Morgan Stanley Signs Mitsubishi Estate Lease for Tokyo Office
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 2012-12-13T09:56:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/morgan-stanley-said-to-sign-lease-to-move-its-tokyo-office.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  signed an office
lease with Mitsubishi Estate Co. earlier this month to move its
 Japan  operations back to  Tokyo ’s Otemachi business district amid
lower rents.  Morgan Stanley will move to Otemachi Financial City South
Tower, in an area neighboring the Imperial Palace, from Tokyo’s
Ebisu district in the first quarter of 2014, the New York-based
company said in an e-mailed statement. Chika Kanamori, a
spokeswoman at Mitsubishi Estate, confirmed the signing of the
lease in an e-mail.  Morgan Stanley is taking advantage of lower office rents as
the vacancy rate in Tokyo rose to a record high earlier this
year, while rents in the capital reached a record low in
November, according to Miki Shoji Co., a Tokyo-based office
brokerage company. Otemachi and Marunouchi, both around Tokyo
Station, are home to the local units of financial companies
including JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Citigroup Inc.  “Our decision to pursue a new space in Otemachi Financial
City was driven by the rising technological demands of the
business, combined with the attractive conditions for tenants of
prime commercial locations,” Morgan Stanley said in the
statement. “We believe the relocation will be another positive
development for Morgan Stanley’s franchise in Japan.”  Yebisu Garden  Sapporo Holdings Ltd. (2501) , the landlord of  Yebisu Garden Place ,
where the New York-based company’s Tokyo office is currently
located, has been notified that Morgan Stanley will be moving
out, said Yuki Hattori, a Tokyo-based spokesman of Sapporo.  “We have gotten a number of inquiries about our building
already,” said Hattori. “We have plenty of time to look for
new tenants.”  Morgan Stanley moved to Ebisu from Otemachi in 1996,
according to the company’s Japanese website. Ebisu is a mainly
residential neighborhood of boutiques and restaurants, whose
main tourist attraction is the area around Yebisu Garden Place,
where Morgan Stanley is currently based and which also houses
the headquarters of Sapporo Breweries.  Otemachi Financial City, which was  completed  in October,
consists of two office towers developed and owned by Mitsubishi
Estate, NTT Urban Development Corp. and Tokyo Tatemono Co. A
unit of JFE Holdings Inc. is another confirmed tenant for the
south tower, Mitsubishi Estate said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 kchu2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  