-- Orthofix Medicare Fraud Probe Is Rejected Again by Judge
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   J a n e l l e   L a w r e n c e
-- 2012-12-13T22:49:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/orthofix-medicare-fraud-probe-is-rejected-again-by-judge.html
Orthofix International NV (OFIX) ’s
settlement of federal regulators’ claims that the maker of bone
repair products defrauded Medicare by paying kickbacks to
doctors was rejected for a second time by a judge.  U.S. District Judge William G. Young in  Boston  today
rebuffed an Orthofix unit’s offer to plead guilty to a felony
count of obstructing an audit and pay a $7.8 million fine after
concluding the agreement improperly restricted his sentencing
powers. He originally rejected the deal in September.  Young said while he has traditionally “gone along” with
plea deals, he said he felt accepting the agreement wouldn’t
“ensure the public interest.”  It’s unclear whether Young’s refusal to accept the plea
also scuttles Orthofix’s agreement to pay $34.2 million to
resolve civil claims first raised in a whistle-blower’s lawsuit
that the company defrauded the federal Medicare program through
payments to doctors who used its bone-growth stimulators.  Mark Quick, an Orthofix spokesman, didn’t respond before a
first call to him was discontinued. He didn’t immediately return
a second call seeking comment on Young’s ruling. Assistant U.S.
Attorney  Jeremy Sternberg , representing the government in the
case declined to comment after the hearing.  Guilty Pleas  Five Orthofix employees have pleaded guilty in connection
with the probe, the U.S. Justice Department said.  Thomas
Guerrieri , a company vice president, pleaded guilty to violating
the federal anti-kickback statute by setting up fake consulting
agreements for doctors who used the company’s products.  Orthofix, based in Curacao, in the Netherlands Antilles,
 said  in February that it had reserved $43 million to settle the
false-claims allegations.  The government joined a whistle-blower suit filed by
 Jeffrey Bierman , a Missouri businessman who learned about
alleged Medicare fraud by Orthofix.  Prosecutors’ Account  He alleged company officials improperly waived patient co-
payments, which wound up misstating the bone-stimulator’s true
cost and generating Medicare overpayments, prosecutors said in
June when they announced the accord with the company.  Bierman, owner of a company that provides billing services
to doctors and hospitals, sued under the federal False Claims
Act, which lets whistle-blowers file cases on behalf of the
government and share in any recoveries. He is slated to receive
$9.2 million of the civil settlement in the Orthofix case,
according to the Justice Department.  At today’s hearing, Young declined to give Orthofix’s and
the government’s lawyers more time to immediately salvage the
deal. “The docket should reflect the plea is withdrawn,” the
judge said at the end of the hearing.  He rejected the plea after  David Schumacher , another
prosecutor, strongly urged him to give final approval to the
deal. Schumacher cited Orthofix’s cooperation with the
investigation which resulted in felony prosecutions over the
Medicare fraud allegations.  High Confidence  “As far as the government’s concerned, there’s a high
degree of confidence Orthofix’s crimes will not reoccur,”
Schumacher said.  Orthofix’s attorneys argued the medical-device company has
fired or forced out managers involved in wrongdoing and begun
training programs designed to change the company’s sales
practices.  “It is understood that good compliance is good business,”
 Brien O’Connor , one of the company’s lawyers, told the judge.  The case is U.S. ex rel. Bierman v. Orthofix International
NV, 05-10557, U.S. District Court, District of  Massachusetts 
(Boston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Janelle Lawrence in Boston
at  jmlawrence@mac.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  