-- Osborne Says He’d Need to See Merits of Changing BOE Target
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2012-12-13T15:24:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/osborne-says-he-d-need-to-see-merits-of-changing-boe-target-1-.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  said lawmakers would have to be persuaded of the
merits of changing the  Bank of England ’s inflation target and he
currently has no plans to do so.  “We have an inflation-targeting regime that has served
this country well and provided stability,” Osborne told the
House of Commons Treasury Committee in London today. “If you
were going to move away from it, Parliament would want to be
satisfied that we’d have very significant rewards from it.”  Whether such goals should be revised is a subject of global
debate as advanced economies recover slowly from the 2008
financial crisis. There are already signs that central bankers
are looking beyond the price mandates to focus on other
challenges such as weak expansion.  “There is a debate taking place and it is one of the areas
where academia should be taking the lead and the government
should follow,” Osborne said. “I have no plans to change the
framework.”  Osborne’s comments come days after Bank of  Canada  Governor
 Mark Carney , who will succeed King in July, said that he has
advocated a “flexible-inflation targeting framework” for
Canada and suggested that such goals could be overhauled in
times of major slumps. He said later Canada’s lessons may not
apply to the U.K.  “I welcome the fact that in Mr. Carney we have someone who
is leading international debate and opinion,” Osborne said.  U.K. Business Secretary Vince Cable was cited as saying in
the Observer newspaper on Dec. 9 that he would like the Bank of
England to have a more explicit target to bolster growth.  The U.S. Federal Reserve entered further into uncharted
territory yesterday when it tied the bank’s interest rate
outlook to unemployment and inflation, while committing to an
even faster expansion of the central bank’s balance sheet.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Penny in  London  at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  