-- Osborne Says Credit Rating Is ‘One Test’ as S&P Cuts Outlook
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2012-12-13T18:19:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/osborne-says-credit-rating-is-one-test-as-s-p-cuts-outlook.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  played down the importance of Britain’s top credit
rating, saying it is only one gauge of the economy’s health.  Osborne made his comments to lawmakers today hours before
Standard & Poor’s lowered its outlook on the U.K. to negative
from stable, citing weak economic growth and a worsening debt
profile.  “It’s one test alongside others and the ultimate test is
what you can borrow money at,” Osborne told Parliament’s
 Treasury Committee  in London today. “The test we have is one we
have to meet every week when we go and try and sell our gilts.”  S&P said there is a one-in-three chance it will cut its AAA
rating in the next two years. The move comes a week after
Osborne conceded in his autumn statement that he is no longer on
course to begin cutting the burden of government debt in 2015.
 Fitch Ratings  said last week that letting the debt target slip
weakened the fiscal credibility underpinning the top rating.  Osborne said today that markets took the news that he’d
miss his debt target in stride because he had demonstrated a
commitment to tackling the budget deficit. Ten-year U.K.
government bonds currently pay 1.86 percent, a third of the rate
on equivalent Spanish debt.  “I am not going to speculate about the future decisions of
rating agencies,” Osborne said. “My job is to maintain
credibility. What I see in the current environment, with a lot
of problems elsewhere in the European continent, is that the
U.K. is something of a safe haven.”  Political Reputation  Osborne staked his political reputation on maintaining
Britain’s credit rating when in 2010 he embarked on the biggest
austerity program in more than half a century to cut the  budget
deficit .  S&P said it could strip Britain of its top rating if the
country’s economic and fiscal performance weakens more than it
expects. “We expect economic growth to accelerate slowly, but
the risks to our growth assumptions are weighted to the
downside, however, with associated risks to government
finances,” it said.  It forecast that the U.K.’s ratio of debt to gross
domestic product will continue to rise in 2015 and peak that
year at 92 percent, with a risk that it could approach 100
percent.  Credit-rating downgrades, far from being a signal that bond
prices will fall, often offer investors buying opportunities.
French 10-year yields have fallen this year despite the country
losing its top rating with  Standard & Poor’s  in January and with
Moody’s Investors Service last month.  U.S. Yields  The U.S., meanwhile, has been deemed more creditworthy by
investors since S&P stripped the nation of its AAA grade in
2011, with 10-year note yields dropping to a record low this
year.  About half the time, government bond yields move in the
opposite direction suggested by new ratings, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg in June on 314 upgrades, downgrades and
outlook changes going back to 1974.  Britain has a top rating at S&P, Fitch and Moody’s
Investors Service. Fitch and Moody’s already have the U.K. on a
negative outlook.  In a statement, the Treasury said S&P endorses the
government’s “strong commitment to implementing the fiscal
mandate” and specifically warns against slowing “the pace and
extent of fiscal consolidation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in  London  at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  