-- Those Diabolical Anonymous Commenters
-- B y   S t e p h e n   L .   C a r t e r
-- 2012-12-13T23:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/those-diabolical-anonymous-commenters.html
Unless you follow the ins and outs
of politics along the Bayou, you probably missed this week’s
resignation of Jim Letten, the longest-serving U.S. attorney in
the country.  Why did he resign? “Beginning last spring,” the  New
York  Times  informs us , “a series of legal motions had revealed
that Mr. Letten’s senior prosecutors had been making
provocative, even pugnacious comments about active criminal
matters and other subjects under aliases at nola.com, the Web
site of The Times-Picayune newspaper.”  Letten, the U.S. attorney for the Eastern District of
 Louisiana , was widely respected for his vigilance in rooting out
public corruption. That he was brought down by his staff’s
inability to resist joining Internet comment threads would
hardly have surprised the journalists of a century ago, who
fought for the right to sign their articles precisely to
preserve the integrity of their words. They understood the
dangers of anonymity. We have forgotten.  Complaints about rudeness in the online world are hardly
new, of course. But we are way past incivility now. Even making
allowances for the inevitable trolls, comment threads have grown
increasingly wild -- so wild that legal consequences have begun
to ensue.  No Name  Consider  the contretemps  that erupted this past summer,
when a newspaper in Spokane,  Washington , resisted demands that
it identify the anonymous commentator who posted this
unflattering reference to a Republican Party official in
neighboring  Idaho : “Is that the missing $10,000 from Kootenai
County Central Committee funds stuffed inside Tina’s blouse?”  The newspaper was threatened with litigation. Its own staff
was divided over whether protecting the identity (in practical
terms, the IP address) of a commenter rose to the same ethical
level as protecting the identity of the anonymous source for a
story. A confrontation was avoided when the person who posted
the comment  outed herself . But it’s fair to ask whether she
would have posted the insinuation had she known that her name
would later be attached to it.  There is something charmingly attractive about keeping
one’s identity secret while telling one’s story to the world.
The  Supreme Court  has  rightly held  that anonymous commentary is
protected by the First Amendment. Whistle-blowers need
protection against retaliation, as do those pushing unpopular
political positions. During the heyday of the civil-rights
movement, the ability to keep from public view the identity of
members was considered a hallmark of the freedom of association.  Alas, anonymity is not always pressed into the service of
such noble ends. On the contrary: More and more, the online-
comment thread seems diabolical -- in the medieval sense of the
word, as the devil’s invention to bring out the worst in us.  In April, a Texas couple won a $13 million defamation
 judgment against  individuals who had posted anonymous
accusations that they were sexual deviants and drug dealers.
Topix.com, which hosted the relevant message boards, was forced
to turn over the writers’ IP addresses.  We should have seen all of this coming. The history of the
movement against anonymous authorship is very much a story of
trying to improve the quality of the published word.  Anne Ferry, in her  classic article  “Anonymity: The Literary
History of a Word,” pointed out that terming a work “anonymous”
gained popularity in the 16th century not as a way of hiding the
writer’s identity, but as a means of identifying works -- poems
especially -- whose authorship was unknown. Anonymity, in other
words, was not a means of protection; its use, rather, conveyed
information.  No Bylines  As newspapers and magazines rose to prominence in the 18th
century, bylines as we know them today were largely avoided,
creating the illusion that the publication spoke with a single
voice. Still, the reader knew whose voice it was -- the
publisher’s -- and thus understood whose views were being
reflected, and who was responsible for them. As sociologist
Michael Schudson  points out  in “Discovering the News: A Social
History of American Newspapers,” even during the Civil War, when
the public appetite for news was insatiable, people identified
reportage by the paper in which it appeared; by and large, they
neither knew nor cared who wrote what.  By the end of the 19th century, newspapers were being
prodded to move from unsigned to signed news articles, partly
because of a fear of corruption: Many unsigned articles, writes
Schudson, were little more than news releases from the
powerful. Reformers said unsigned articles were unethical.  In 1889, the novelist Tighe Hopkins weighed in on the side
of disclosing the authors’ names, and his argument was typical:
“It is, at all events, certain that anonymity opens the door to
any facile hack,”  he wrote  in an essay in the New Review. “It is
to the interest of the honest journalist that he should be known
to the public.”  Journalists were not the only ones to confront the issue. A
1928  education textbook  warned: “Students who hide behind
anonymous replies to be smart and clever are more likely to take
the task seriously if obliged to sign their names.”  This last passage nicely states the problem. Yes, anonymity
can be handmaiden to courage and honesty. On the other hand, by
lowering the cost of communication, anonymity can reduce the
care that we put into our words. Most probably, the comments
that led to Letten’s resignation were posted not as part of some
carefully considered plan but rather on the spur of the moment 
-- impulsively, and thus thoughtlessly.  Many websites are moving away from anonymity, requiring
those who wish to comment to sign on with Facebook, Google+,
Twitter or some other account. (This is the case on Bloomberg’s
website, where commenters can also register with Bloomberg.)
Some popular blogs have ceased to permit comments at all.  Website operators are rediscovering the concern that
motivated the move to newspaper bylines a century ago: Anonymity
greatly heightens the risk of reckless and even harmful speech.
The First Amendment protects thoughtless comments, but nobody is
required to host them. Perhaps as Web discussions move in a less
anonymous direction, the quality of conversation will improve.  I am saddened by the decline of the anonymous comment, for
reasons I have already mentioned. And it is true that there is
silliness aplenty on Facebook and Twitter, too. Still, it is my
hope that we will discover, as newspapers did long ago, that few
things are as conducive to thinking carefully about what to say
as being required to sign your name.  (Stephen L. Carter is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
professor of law at  Yale University . He is the author of “The
Violence of Peace: America’s Wars in the Age of Obama,” and the
novel “The Impeachment of  Abraham Lincoln .” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Stephen L. Carter at  stephen.carter@yale.edu  or @StepCarter on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 