-- Other House of Morgan Spawns a Web of Scandals
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2012-12-13T23:30:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/other-house-of-morgan-spawns-a-web-of-scandals.html
It has been more than five years
since a  group  of  mutual   funds  run by Morgan Keegan & Co.  crashed 
in an accounting debacle, costing investors about $1.5 billion.
Now the scandal has reached the boardroom at one of the U.S.
accounting profession’s highest bodies.  This week the Securities and Exchange Commission  accused 
eight former Morgan Keegan fund directors of shirking their
oversight responsibilities when it came to the funds’ asset
valuations. One former director, Mary Stone, is a trustee for
the Norwalk, Connecticut-based Financial Accounting Foundation,
which oversees the board that sets U.S. accounting standards.  After the SEC’s enforcement division filed its  claims  on
Dec. 10, the foundation issued a news release saying Stone had
requested and been granted a  leave of absence  from its board of
trustees. It didn’t say why. The SEC previously had accused the
funds of fraudulently overstating their asset values.  That the foundation appointed Stone to its board in the
first place was a serious lapse. It was a matter of public
record when Stone was selected that she had been the funds’
audit-committee chairman during the time when the SEC said the
fraud occurred. The SEC filed its  complaint  accusing Morgan
Keegan and two employees of accounting fraud in April 2010.
Stone was  named  a trustee of the accounting foundation in
November 2010, while the SEC’s investigation was ongoing.  Settlement Terms  Stone, who is an  accounting professor  at the  University of
Alabama  in Tuscaloosa, didn’t return phone calls. Through their
attorneys, the eight former directors have denied the SEC’s
allegations,  saying  they acted diligently and in good faith.
Morgan Keegan  agreed  to pay $200 million in June 2011 to settle
fraud claims by the SEC and  other regulators . The two employees
at the Memphis, Tennessee-based securities firm also paid fines.  The SEC’s order this week  said  the fund directors
“delegated their responsibility to determine fair value to a
valuation committee without providing any meaningful substantive
guidance on how those determinations should be made.”
Additionally, it said “they made no meaningful effort to learn
how fair values were actually being determined” for illiquid
securities.  You have to wonder what the accounting foundation’s
trustees were thinking when they selected Stone. Of all the
people they might have tapped, surely they could have found
someone who hadn’t been on the audit committee of an outfit
accused by the SEC of accounting fraud. The foundation should be
setting a positive example when choosing its leaders. Trustees’
backgrounds should be pristine.  Stone’s job as an audit-committee member was to oversee the
financial integrity of the Morgan Keegan funds. Regardless of
whether the funds’ violations were Stone’s fault, they happened
on her watch. Stone already was a defendant in numerous investor
lawsuits when she was named a trustee.  So how did Stone, 62, manage to get picked? Robert Stewart,
a spokesman for the foundation, said he “can’t comment on any
specific case.” Speaking generally, he said candidates are
interviewed by members of the trustees’ appointments committee,
and that names of finalists are submitted to the SEC chief
accountant’s office. He also said that the foundation conducts
background checks on finalists, and that SEC commissioners have
the opportunity to express their views.  Obviously, the foundation’s trustees knew or should have
known about Stone’s role at the Morgan Keegan funds before
hiring her. All anyone had to do was a  Google search . Likewise,
they should have realized there was a risk the SEC would file
claims against her individually, as it did this week. It isn’t
clear what the SEC told the foundation about Stone, if anything,
or what the board’s rationale was for choosing her.  An SEC spokesman,  John Nester , declined to answer questions
about Stone’s appointment process.  Different Animal  The accounting foundation is no ordinary private party. It
oversees the  Financial Accounting Standards Board , which sets
U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, as well as the
 Governmental Accounting Standards Board , which determines
accounting rules for state and local governments. It’s up to the
SEC to decide whether the FASB continues as a designated
standard-setter for U.S. companies.  The foundation’s 17-member board is filled with  luminaries 
from the worlds of accounting and finance. Its chairman when
Stone was appointed was  John Brennan , the former chief executive
officer of the investment manager Vanguard Group Inc. Brennan,
who remains a trustee, was succeeded as chairman this year by
Jeffrey Diermeier, the former CEO of the  CFA Institute , which is
the global accreditation body for chartered financial analysts.  In a 2003  policy statement,  the SEC’s staff said: “While
the FAF makes the final determinations regarding the selection
of FASB and FAF members, we believe that to fulfill our
statutory responsibilities we should provide the FAF with our
views and that the FAF should consider those views in making its
final selection.”  A thorough explanation of how Stone wound up being selected
is in order -- and soon. The accounting foundation and the SEC
are supposed to be about accountability. They should show some.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Weil in  New York  at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 