-- Hovnanian Reports Narrower Loss as Housing Sales Increase
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2012-12-13T21:17:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/hovnanian-reports-narrower-loss-as-housing-sales-increase.html
Hovnanian Enterprises Inc. (HOV) , the
 best-performing  U.S. homebuilder stock this year, reported a
narrower loss for its fiscal fourth quarter as sales increased
in a recovering U.S. housing market.  The net loss for the three months ended Oct. 31 was $84.4
million, or 59 cents a share, compared with $98.3 million, or 90
cents, a year earlier, the  Red Bank , New Jersey-based company
said today in a statement. The results included $87 million in
costs tied to the repurchase of debt.  Hovnanian, the largest homebuilder in  New Jersey , is
benefiting from rising demand for new U.S. homes with borrowing
costs at record lows and prices rising. The company’s orders
jumped 23 percent in the quarter and also increased last month.  The fourth-quarter results “were encouraging and
consistent with the continually improving housing market,”
Vincent Foley and  Cedric Morris , analysts with Barclays Plc,
wrote in a note to clients. “We believe the company is in the
best fundamental shape since before the housing downturn.”  The shares slipped 5.3 percent to $5.20 at the close of  New
York  trading. Hovnanian has gained 259 percent this year,
compared with a 94 percent advance for the 13-company Bloomberg
Industries homebuilding index.  Fiscal 2013  “There could be some profit-taking here,”  Megan McGrath,
an analyst at MKM Partners LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in
an e-mail. “While 4Q results were solid, I think that investors
may be disappointed with the company’s limited commentary around
fiscal 2013.”  The number of communities dropped 12 percent in the fourth
quarter from a year earlier and “the lower number of active
selling communities may dampen our sales and deliveries early in
the new fiscal year,” Chief Executive Officer Ara K. Hovnanian
said during a call with analysts today. “We are very optimistic
about our opportunities for stronger growth in the latter half
of the year.”  In the fourth quarter, revenue climbed 43 percent to $487
million.  Net contracts jumped to 1,443 homes from 1,175 a year
earlier, and increased 19 percent in November, the company said.
The contract backlog, an indication of future sales, rose 29
percent in the fourth quarter to 2,145.  Hovnanian had a pretax profit, excluding the charge on the
debt costs, for the first time since 2006, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in Boston at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  