-- How Apple Will Benefit From Its Miserable Maps Failure
-- B y   Z a r a   K e s s l e r
-- 2012-12-13T20:34:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/how-apple-will-benefit-from-its-miserable-maps-failure.html
We made it. It was a long, arduous journey, filled with wrong turns,
 hospitals that turned out to be supermarkets  and time spent  stranded in
Australian national parks . Three months later, however, we've finally arrived at
our destination: Google maps  is back  on the iPhone. In his  New York  Times review of Google Inc.'s new free app, David Pogue
 describes  Apple Inc.'s failed foray into navigation: "For a company that prides
itself on flawless execution, it was quite a detour." It was a worthwhile detour. We've learned some important lessons over these
strenuous weeks. First, it's not always best to have the newest gadget. Those who waited in
long lines for the iPhone 5 scoffed at their Luddite friends who failed even to
update to iOS 6. But vintage can be fashionable in technology, too. Second, there is a downside to spontaneity. It's sometimes wise to think
about where you want to go before you're stranded on a street corner, unable to
get there because the little screen in your hands can't figure out what city
you're in. An e-mail, a printout or -- dare I say it -- a paper map can come in
handy. Last, and most important, Apple is not perfect. The week after the Apple Maps
launch, Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  issued a rare  public apology , in which
he suggested downloading alternative map apps from competitors (making  a few
friends  in the process). The manager who supervised the maps project  got the
boot . Cook was still apologizing a few weeks ago when he  told  Bloomberg
Businessweek's Josh Tyrangiel: "We set out to give the customer something to
provide a better experience. And the truth is it didn’t live up to our
expectations.  We screwed up ." There's a concept in psychology called the " pratfall effect ." Put simply, we
like competent people more than incompetent people, but the people we like best
are competent people who occasionally falter. The classic pratfall experiment
shows how individuals find a competent person who spills coffee on himself more
attractive than a competent person without slippery fingers. So Apple Maps may enable Apple Inc. to benefit from the pratfall effect. Of
course, iPhones are not people. But that's not to say Apple doesn't want us to
think of them as such. Every curse we shouted at our bite-size screens for  not
knowing  that Shakespeare's birthplace exists -- and Woolworth's no longer does -
- may have made us just a little more likely to be friends with Siri. (Zara Kessler is an assistant editor and producer for Bloomberg View.  Follow 
her on Twitter.) Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View at  the Ticker .