-- Palm Oil Slumps to Three-Year Low as Stockpiles Reach Record
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2012-12-13T12:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/palm-oil-tumbles-to-three-year-low-as-stockpiles-climb-to-record.html
Palm, the world’s most consumed
cooking oil, tumbled to the lowest level in more than three
years amid record inventories in  Malaysia  and on signs that
global supplies will be more than enough to meet demand.  Futures fell as much as 1.1 percent to 2,217 ringgit ($727)
a metric ton on the Malaysia Derivatives Exchange, the lowest
price since November 2009, and settled at 2,230 ringgit in Kuala
Lumpur. Prices are heading for a 30 percent decline this year,
the worst annual loss since the 2008 financial crisis.  Palm, used in everything from  Nestle SA (NESN) ’s Maggi instant
noodles to Unilever’s soap bars, has plunged as output in
Indonesia and Malaysia, the biggest producers, outpaced demand
from China and  India . Prices have declined even as soybeans
jumped 22 percent this year and wheat advanced 25 percent.
Futures will probably drop into a  bear market  next year, said
Dorab Mistry, director at Godrej International Ltd.  “The stocks are still high and they have to keep prices
low to get rid of them,” said Ivy Ng, an analyst at CIMB Group
Holdings Bhd. in Kuala Lumpur. “Most people will just buy hand-
to-mouth. I would expect exports to be better in January.”  Global inventories of soybean oil, an alternative, will
reach 3 million tons in the year that began Oct. 1, up from 2.9
million tons forecast a month ago, the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  said Dec. 11. Palm oil  stockpiles  in Malaysia
reached an all-time high of 2.56 million tons in November,
according to the nation’s palm oil board.  Malaysian Tax  The S&P GSCI Agriculture Index of eight commodities has
gained 6.9 percent this year, while  soybean oil  lost 5.4
percent. Futures in Malaysia will trade between 2,300 ringgit
and 2,600 ringgit a ton between now and February, and drop below
2,200 ringgit in August or earlier to clear inventories,
Godrej’s Mistry said Nov. 30.  Malaysian shipments may slow this month as exporters await
a new tax structure from Jan. 1, CIMB’s Ng said. The new system
will help create more demand, Bernard Dompok, Malaysia’s
Plantation Industries and Commodities Minister, said yesterday.  Tax on crude palm oil exports may be zero next month,
Maybank Investment Bank Bhd. said on Dec. 11. The average free-
on-board price between Nov. 10 and Dec. 9 that will be taken to
set the January levy is estimated to be below the minimum
threshold of 2,250 ringgit for the tax to apply, analysts Ong Chee Ting and Chai Li Shin said in a report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  