-- Pemex Sues Siemens Claiming Bribery in Refinery Project
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-12-14T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/pemex-sues-siemens-claiming-bribery-in-refinery-project.html
Petroleos Mexicanos,  Mexico ’s state-
owned oil company, filed a $1.5 billion lawsuit against  Siemens
AG (SIE)  and South Korea-based SK Engineering & Construction Co.,
claiming the companies bribed Pemex officials to win and keep
refinery construction projects.  Siemens, which in 2008 paid $1.6 billion to settle a
bribery investigation by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, conspired with SK Engineering and a joint venture
partner to bribe Pemex officials while bidding on a refinery
modernization project in Mexico’s Cadereyta region, the oil
company alleged in a complaint filed yesterday in Manhattan
federal court.  The contract was awarded to the joint venture in 1997,
according to the complaint. The defendants later bribed Pemex
officials to keep the contract, when the project was plagued by
cost overruns and disputes over the work, according to Pemex.  “Plaintiffs suffered millions of dollars of harm from the
selection of an inadequate contractor, the acceptance of harmful
contractual terms, and the acceptance of significant cost
overruns,” Pemex said in the complaint.  The suit seeks $500 million in damages, which may be
tripled under the U.S. Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt
Organizations Act.  Another Lawsuit  Representatives of Munich-based Siemens and Seoul-based SK
Engineering couldn’t immediately be reached yesterday for
comment on the complaint.  According to the complaint, the case is related to another
suit in  Manhattan  federal court that was filed by the joint
venture, Conproca S.A. de C.V., which sought to collect $530
million awarded by an arbitrator for payment of cost overruns on
the project. Pemex claimed in yesterday’s complaint that the
arbitration award was based in part on documents executed by
bribed officials certifying that the cost overruns had been
approved.  Conproca was set up as a joint venture among Siemens, SK
Engineering and Grupo Tribasa, according to the complaint. SK
Engineering later acquired Grupo Tribasa’s interest, Pemex said.
Grupo Tribasa paid the original bribes, and SK Engineering paid
later bribes to maintain the contract, according to Pemex. The
bribes were paid with the knowledge of all the companies that
formed the Conproca joint venture, the oil company claimed.  Pemex filed the suit to protect its racketeering claims
from a possible defense that they were filed too late, the
company said in the complaint. Pemex plans to ask the judge to
delay the case while the related suit by Conproca is decided,
Pemex said.  The case is Petroleos Mexicanos v. Conproca SA de CV, 12-
cv-9070, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  