-- Pentagon Budget Is a Weapon Against Iran, Terrorists
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-12-13T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/pentagon-budget-is-a-weapon-against-iran-terrorists.html
With the threat of more than $500
billion in Pentagon sequestration cuts looming next month,
congressional haggling over details of the  2013 defense
authorization bill  may seem like shuffling deck chairs on the
Titanic.  Still, the U.S. military needs to pay its bills, and
Congress has a few significant issues to iron out on the
package.  The two versions of the authorization bill passed by the
House and the Senate are close -- they differ on spending by
only $4 billion on packages totaling more than $550 billion. Now
the House-Senate conference committee can make the bill easier
for the president to sign, and better for national security, by
making the right call on reconciling their respective versions.
It must hash out the agreement immediately -- failure to send
the bill to the White House by the end of the year would mean
starting over in the new Congress.  The biggest issue is a House measure that would deny money
for the Defense Department to transfer or release detainees held
at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, to the U.S. or its territories. It
would also require the secretary of defense to notify Congress
90 days before sending any detainee to a foreign country. Both
rules are part of a misguided and cowardly effort to keep
President  Barack Obama  from making good on his long-delayed
promise to shut down Gitmo. Senate conferees should persuade
their House colleagues to drop the requirements. They should
also push for acceptance of an amendment prohibiting the
detention without charge of U.S. citizens or legal permanent
residents suspected of terrorism and captured within the U.S., a
critical tweak to our unfortunate but necessary policy of
detention in the fight against global terrorism.  The House version would also require that a missile-defense
system be deployed on the East Coast before 2016, ostensibly to
guard against an Iranian attack. Supporters point to a recent
National Research Council  report  that foreign-based antimissile
systems intended to knock out an Iranian weapon at launch will
probably be less effective than domestic systems that would
strike later in flight. That may be true, but it doesn’t mean
 Iran  is technologically close to having a nuclear-tipped threat
to the New Jersey shore. The project can wait.  There are also several contentious matters having to do
with women in uniform. One no-brainer is to keep a Senate
provision that would allow female troops the use of military
insurance to cover abortions in cases of rape. The final law
should also keep a requirement that the Pentagon report to
Congress with proposals to increase the role of women in combat.  Given that  half  of all military suicides -- which occurred
this year at a rate of one a day -- are committed with privately
owned guns, the House was smart to include a measure that would
let commanders and mental-health professionals ask troops about
the private weapons they own and encourage them to be stored
safely on base. This is not, as some Second Amendment
absolutists have suggested, a stealth gun-control measure.  The House version would prohibit the military from using
alternative energy sources that cost more than traditional
fossil fuels. Such energy-security measures have been overhyped
(we’re skeptical of Navy Secretary Ray Mabus’s vision of
fielding a  “Great Green Fleet” ), but the military’s relatively
modest research program is worth keeping even if it isn’t yet
saving money.  Last, and most important in terms of our immediate national
security, are a number of well-designed Senate proposals to
increase sanctions against Iran. These would blacklist Iran’s
energy, shipping and ship-building sectors, and make it harder
for companies involved in them to get insurance. Although these
industries are controlled by the Iranian regime and its thugs in
the Revolutionary Guards Corps, and indirectly support Iran’s
nuclear program, the White House opposes the measures, saying
they would complicate other efforts to coordinate sanctions with
our European allies. Actually, these punishments are overdue,
and the legislative branch is right to push the executive on
them.  Congress ignored many of the biggest financial issues
facing the Pentagon: base closings, major troop reductions, the
future of megadollar programs such as the Ford-class
supercarrier, reforming retirement benefits and the Tricare
health-care system. It won’t have that luxury much longer; with
or without sequestration, getting the U.S. fiscal house in order
will mean an end to military spending at more than 4 percent of
gross domestic product.  Still, Congress can act now to make a few good, politically
painless decisions to put the Pentagon on a better track.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 