-- Peregrine, Madoff, AMR, LightSquared, MF: Bankruptcy
-- B y   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 2012-12-13T21:10:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/peregrine-madoff-amr-lightsquared-mf-bankruptcy.html
MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) ’s $1 billion
in unsecured bonds are trading for about twice what holders will
recover in bankruptcy, according to a report from CRT Capital
Group LLC. The company, formerly run by Jon Corzine, is the
owner of bankrupt commodity broker MF Global Inc.  CRT’s “mid-case” analysis shows a recovery of 34 percent
for holders of $1.016 billion in four issues of unsecured bonds
of the holding company, according to Kevin Starke, who based his
conclusion on a late November report from the U.K. brokerage
subsidiary and a separate report last week by the trustee for
the U.S. brokerage. Starke is a managing director with  Stamford ,
Connecticut-based CRT, which buys and sells distressed debt.  By contrast, the $325 million in 6.25 percent unsecured
bonds maturing 2016 traded at 12:11 p.m. for 65 cents on the
dollar, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  “I want someone to tell me where I’m wrong because I don’t
see how they recover 65 cents,” Starke said in an interview.  To be sure, Starke qualified his evaluation by saying that
unsecured bondholders could recover 100 percent in his “high
case.” Still, Starke said “too many things have to go right to
hit the high end of the range.”  The size of recoveries by creditors of the MF Global
holding company depend in part on amounts collected by the
brokerage subsidiaries in the U.S. and the U.K.  Chewed Up  “Value in the two broker dealer entities gets chewed up on
the way up to the holding company because much of the value held
by the parent is in the form of subordinated debt,” Starke
said.  Starke’s report projects that creditors on the $1.175
billion in revolving credits are “likely” to recover 65
percent.  Starke also believes U.S. customers are “likely” to have
full recovery. So-called 30.7 claims from trading in futures or
options on foreign exchanges are being quoted from 91.5 to 92.5
cents on the dollar, Starke said. For so-called 4d customers
with commodity futures and options accounts, claims are being
quoted between 97.5 percent and 98.5 percent, according to
Starke.  The MF Global Holdings Ltd. parent and the commodity
brokerage subsidiary, MF Global Inc., went into separate
bankruptcies on Oct. 31. The holding-company parent is under
control of a Chapter 11 trustee, while the broker is under
control of a separate trustee selected by the Securities
Investor Protection Corp. When the liquidation began, there was
a shortfall of about $1.6 billion in supposedly segregated
customer property.  The holding company’s Chapter 11 case is In re MF Global
Holdings Ltd., 11-15059, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern
District of New York ( Manhattan ). The liquidation of the broker
is In re MF Global Inc., 11-02790, in the same court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Rochelle in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 