-- Phillips 66 Plans to Raise $400 Million in 2013 Pipeline IPO
-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 2012-12-13T14:02:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/phillips-66-plans-to-raise-400-million-in-2013-pipeline-ipo.html
Phillips 66 (PSX) , the crude refiner that
was spun off from ConocoPhillips in May, plans to raise as much
as $400 million in an initial public offering next year for a
minority interest in some of its pipeline and logistics assets.  Phillips 66 plans to hold the IPO in the second half of
2013 for units in a master-limited partnership, or MLP, and use
the proceeds to pay for expansion of its oil and natural gas
transportation operations, the Houston-based company said today
in a statement.  “We believe the proposed MLP will enable us to enhance our
value for our shareholders and increase the transparency of our
business,” Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Greg Garland
said in the statement, which comes as Phillips 66 today holds
its first meeting for analysts and investors in  New York .  Phillips 66 would become the fourth refiner since 2011 to
create or announce plans for a pipeline-related MLP. MLPs, which
are usually controlled by a general partner, pay no corporate
income tax. They pay most of their cash to owners of limited
partnership units, which are traded like shares in a public
corporation. The partnership owners become responsible for
paying taxes individually. The company did not disclose which
assets it plans to use to create the MLP.  “Refiners are subject at the end of the day to commodity
risk,”  Gianna Bern , president of risk-management consultant
Brookshire Advisory & Research, Inc. in  Chicago , said in a
telephone interview today. “Putting in place a structure that
provides a stable investment return would be viewed positively
amongst investors.”  Creating MLPs  Refiners have embraced the model as a way to reap more
value from pipeline assets for which investors will pay a
premium.  Marathon Petroleum Corp. (MPC) , which was spun off from
Marathon Oil Corp. last year, sold 17.3 million units in MPLX LP
on Oct. 25, creating an MLP valued at $2.3 billion, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The companies have used the creation of MLPs, share
buybacks and dividend increases to lessen earnings volatility
inherent in refining and draw investors including  Warren
Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and BlackRock Inc. As of Sept.
30, Berkshire was one of the largest  shareholders  of Phillips
66, with 27.2 million shares, or 4.3 percent of the company.
BlackRock  disclosed  Dec. 6 that it holds a 10 percent stake in
Marathon Petroleum.  Other Sectors  Phillips 66 and Marathon Petroleum have sought a niche as
refiners with growing operations in other energy sectors.
Marathon Petroleum plans to grow its pipeline business through
new projects tied to its refining operations and acquisitions,
Garry Peiffer, president of MPLX LP, said Dec. 11 in a telephone
interview.  Phillips 66, which has stakes in 15 operating refineries, a
chemical joint venture with Chevron Corp. and a pipeline and
natural gas liquids  unit  with Spectra Energy Corp., plans $3.7
billion in 2013  capital spending , a 6 percent increase over this
year’s estimated total, according to the statement.  About $1.8 billion of that represents Phillips 66’s
contribution toward spending by its chemical and pipeline joint
ventures for new infrastructure projects, natural gas liquids
production and a petrochemical plant.  Phillips 66, which has 14 buy and seven hold ratings from
analysts, has  risen  62 percent since its first day of official
trading May 1. The shares rose less than 1 percent to $53.05 at
the close yesterday in New York.  Tesoro Corp., Marathon Petroleum and Delek U.S. Holdings
have already formed pipeline MLPs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  