-- Philippines Holds Rate as Economy Withstands Global Slowdown
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p   a n d   M a x   E s t a y o
-- 2012-12-13T10:08:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/philippines-holds-rate-as-economy-withstands-global-slowdown-1-.html
The  Philippines  refrained from
cutting its benchmark  interest rate  further as the economy
withstands a global slowdown and inflation is kept in check.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas kept the  rate  it pays lenders
for overnight deposits at 3.5 percent, according to a statement
in Manila today. The decision was predicted by all 14 economists
surveyed by  Bloomberg News . The monetary authority lowered
borrowing costs by a total 100 basis points this year.  The Southeast Asian country joins  Indonesia  and  South Korea 
in leaving borrowing costs unchanged this week even as  Sri Lanka 
unexpectedly lowered rates. The Philippine  economy  grew 7.1
percent last quarter, the fastest pace since 2010, and the
central bank today said there is little need for support from
monetary policy even as global prospects remain subdued.  “The central bank’s assessment is that the economy is on a
much stronger footing now,” said Emilio Neri, an economist at
Bank of the Philippine Islands in Manila. Still, “there are a
number of signs that both the local and global economy are just
not out of the woods yet” and external headwinds can continue
to threaten the outlook for growth, he said.  The peso has gained almost 7 percent this year, the best
performer after the Korean won among  Asia ’s 11 most-widely
traded currencies tracked by Bloomberg. It slipped 0.1 percent
to 41.073 against the dollar today, while the benchmark
 Philippine stock exchange index  fell 0.5 percent at the close,
after surging to a record this week.  ‘Evenly’ Balanced  President  Benigno Aquino  is increasing spending to a record
this year while seeking more than $16 billion of investments in
roads and airports to spur growth to as much as 7 percent in
2013. Lawmakers passed a bill this week to raise taxes on
cigarettes and alcohol, which may add 184.3 billion pesos ($4.5
billion) in revenue in the next four years.  Inflation slowed to 2.8 percent in November from a year
earlier, staying below the central bank’s targeted range of 3
percent to 5 percent from 2012 to 2014. The damage to farms from
Storm Bopha is estimated at 11.7 billion pesos, Agriculture
Secretary Proceso Alcala said today.  Risks to the inflation outlook are “evenly balanced,”
Governor  Amando Tetangco  said today. Price gains may average 3.2
percent this year, Deputy Governor Diwa Guinigundo said, lower
than a previous estimate of 3.3 percent. Consumer prices may
rise 3.1 percent next year and 2.9 percent in 2014, he said,
compared to earlier forecasts of 3.9 percent and 3.1 percent.  “The Philippine economy has demonstrated resiliency in the
first three quarters,” Guinigundo said. “There’s very little
need for assistance from monetary policy.”  Limit Inflows  Moody’s Investors Service raised the country’s credit
rating to one step below investment grade in October, helping
bring in more pledges from companies including Alliance Global
Group Inc. and First Gen Corp. The government signed a peace
deal with Muslim guerrillas in the mineral-rich south in October,
and said it expects about $1 billion of commitments in Mindanao.  Exports rose less than economists estimated in October on
weaker demand for electronics goods. Still, remittances, which
make up the equivalent of about 10 percent of gross domestic
product, may reach $21.2 billion in 2012 and rise to $22.2
billion in 2013, Guinigundo said today. The Southeast Asian
nation may become the world’s No. 3 recipient this year behind
India and  China , the  World Bank  has forecast.  Bangko Sentral ordered banks to set aside more funds this
year to cover risk on currency forwards. In July, it banned
foreign funds from its special-deposit accounts and lowered the
rates it pays on them. The central bank is reviewing the  risk
premium  on forwards as a way to limit inflows, Tetangco has said.  “We think the BSP will remain on a prolonged hold through
2013,” said Eugenia Victorino, a Singapore-based economist at
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. “However, they may
choose to raise banks’ reserve requirements or impose capital-
flow restrictions.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net ;
Max Estayo in  Manila  at 
 mestayo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  