-- Philippine Peso Falls as Central Bank Holds Rate at Record Low
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2012-12-13T10:17:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/philippine-peso-falls-as-central-bank-set-to-keep-rates-on-hold.html
The Philippine peso fell for a
fourth day as the central bank held its benchmark  interest rate 
at a record low.  Government bonds  declined.  Policy makers left the  overnight rate  at 3.5 percent, a
decision predicted by all 14 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey ahead of announcement after markets closed. The economy,
which expanded at the fastest pace in two years last quarter,
needs “very little” assistance from monetary policy and that
prudential or non-monetary tools may be used to manage inflows,
central bank Deputy Governor Diwa Guinigundo said today.  “The market is taking into account potential moves to curb
speculative flows and this is helping temper the peso’s gains,”
said Rafael Algarra, executive vice president at Security Bank
Corp. in Manila.  The peso dropped 0.1 percent to 41.073 per dollar at the
close in  Manila , the lowest level since Nov. 23, data from
Tullett Prebon Plc showed. One-month implied volatility, a gauge
of expected exchange-rate moves used to price options, was
unchanged at 4.40 percent.  Algarra predicts the peso will advance toward 40.500 per
dollar by the end of the first quarter.  “Capital flows is a monetary issue but can be dealt with
using non-monetary or macro prudential measures,” Guinigundo
told reporters after the policy decision.  The yield on the 10.125 percent notes due December 2015
rose four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 3.89
percent, according to midday fixing prices at Philippine Dealing
& Exchange Corp.  “I think a further rate cut is off the table for the
meantime, and we’ve heard the central bank talk about other
measures to deal with the flows,” Algarra said before the
decision.  Foreign investors have bought $111 million more Philippine
shares than the sold this month, taking net purchases in 2012 to
$2.3 billion, according to stock exchange data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  