-- Pimco’s Gross Says Fed Policy Means ‘Free’ Debt for Treasury
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-12-13T15:51:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/pimco-s-gross-says-fed-policy-means-free-debt-for-treasury-1-.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
 Bill Gross , manager of the world’s biggest bond fund, said the
 Federal Reserve ’s latest round of monetary stimulus will enable
the Treasury department to issue debt for no cost.  The central bank said yesterday it will buy $45 billion a
month of  Treasury securities  starting in January, expanding its
asset-purchase program, and for the first time linked the
outlook for its main  interest rate  to unemployment and inflation
targets. The purchases will add to the $40 billion a month it is
buying of mortgage debt.  “What really happens, and this is critically important, is
that the Treasury issues bonds and the Fed buys them and then it
remits interest to the Treasury,” Gross, who runs the $285
billion Total Return Fund, said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television with  Betty Liu .  “It means the Treasury is issuing
debt for free. There are complications. Inflation is one of the
complications.”  Treasuries fell yesterday after the Fed announced bond-
buying plans as traders bet the actions would eventually fuel
inflation. Thirty-year Treasury yields reached a five-week high
of 2.93 percent today while  break-even rates  on 30-year
inflation-index bonds, a measure of expectations for consumer
prices during the life of the securities, climbed to 2.55
percentage points yesterday, the most since Oct. 5.  Inflation, so far, has been held in check and “we are well
below 2 percent and the Fed is comforted by that,” Gross said.
“But ultimately, if you write checks for free and if it’s
costless to finance a fiscal policy that is well into a deficit
figure, yes, that’s an inflationary moment to the extent that
the private sector gets some animal spirits and takes that
bait.”  Pimco’s  Total Return Fund (PTTRX)  gained 11.2 percent during the
past year, beating 94 percent of its peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The fund has returned 8.5 percent during
five years, outperforming 97 percent of competitors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  