-- Pimco Sees Brazil’s New Interest Rate Paradigm Sparking Business
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-12-13T17:58:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/pimco-sees-brazil-s-new-interest-rate-paradigm-sparking-business.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.
sees  interest rates  in Brazil staying near a record low for some
time, providing momentum for the world’s biggest bond fund
manager’s expansion in  Latin America .  Real interest rates in the world’s second-biggest emerging
market have fallen to about 2 percent, pushing money managers
accustomed to earning returns of five or six percent just by
investing in overnight rates to search for yield in other
assets, said  Douglas Hodge , Pimco’s chief operating officer.  “We have moved to a new paradigm in terms of interest
rates,” Hodge, 55, said during an interview in Rio de Janeiro
for the opening of Pimco’s first office in Latin America and its
11th overseas. “This is where we think there is an emerging
business opportunity for us.”  The  Newport Beach , California-based Pimco, which  oversaw 
$1.92 trillion of assets as of Sept. 30 including more than $60
billion in Latin America, announced in April it was opening its
first regional office in Rio. The firm, a unit of  Allianz SE (ALV) 
known for its bond funds run by  Bill Gross , began expanding into
other asset classes including stocks three years ago.  Rio is Pimco’s first office in a BRIC market; an office in
 Hong Kong  helps manage its business in  China . One of the city’s
draws is its pension funds, including the country’s biggest,
Previ. As interest rates in Brazil fall, the 596 billion reais
($285 billion) pension industry is beginning to reallocate
resources after funds won permission in 2009 to invest up to 10
percent of their assets abroad.  Brazilian policy makers have cut the benchmark rate 525
basis points since August 2011, more than any Group of 20
nation, to 7.25 percent, in a bid to revive a flagging economy
that is forecast to grow at half the pace of the U.S. this year
and less than the world’s biggest  emerging markets .  ‘Interventionist’ Policies  While a weak global economy, especially a slowdown in
China, is to blame for much of Brazil’s poorer performance this
year, policies by President Dilma Rousseff’s administration are
also a factor in damping investment, Hodge said. Among them is
the government’s plan to cut utility rates, he said.  Companies “are becoming more conservative, partially as a
result of external conditions, partly from more interventionist
government policy, and it is just not clear where the boundaries
of that policy will be set,” he said.  ‘Bullish’ Bet  Still, Brazil’s economy is better suited than other
emerging markets to withstand a prolonged period of “tepid”
global growth because of its expanding middle class, strong
consumption trends and one of the world’s lowest debt levels,
Hodge said.  Those same trends helped Pimco profit after it tripled its
 Brazil  holdings in 2002 at a time investors were dumping the
nation’s debt on concerns then-presidential candidate Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, a former union leader, would default if
elected.  Pimco stayed invested after Lula took office and prices
recovered as he went against longstanding policies of his
Workers’ Party and reined in public spending. Brazil’s 11
percent bonds maturing in 2040 have tripled to 126 cents on the
dollar as the yield declined to 8.51 percent since Pimco
increased its holdings a decade ago.  “We are still very bullish on Brazil,” Hodge said, adding
that growth next year should surpass 3 percent. “The Brazilian
economy is more resilient than perhaps some of the other
emerging economies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  