-- Polish Inflation Slowed in November, Paving Way for Cuts
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2012-12-13T13:17:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/polish-inflation-slowed-in-november-paving-way-for-cuts.html
Polish inflation slowed for a
second month to the weakest pace in two years in November,
paving the way for more interest-rate cuts to boost growth in
the European Union’s largest eastern economy.  The  inflation  rate rose an annual 2.8 percent, compared
with 3.4 percent the previous month, the  Central Statistical
Office  in Warsaw said today. That was below the 2.9 percent
median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 32 economists. Prices
rose 0.1 percent on the month.  With more than half its exports sent to the recession-hit
euro area,  Poland  must revive demand at home to boost  growth 
that slowed to the weakest pace in more than three years in the
third quarter. The central bank predicts the expansion will ease
to 1.5 percent in 2013, the least in a decade, while the
inflation rate will drop below the bank’s 2.5 percent target.  Price growth “has entered a fast-drop phase and may fall
to the lower end of the central bank’s tolerance range by
mid-2013,” Tomasz Kaczor, chief economist at Bank Gospodarstwa
Krajowego in Warsaw, said by e-mail before today’s report. “We
expect a rate cut in January, a short pause in the easing in
February and a new wave of cuts revived in March.”  The zloty stayed weaker against the euro after today’s
report, trading at 4.0942 per euro at 2:12 p.m. in Warsaw, down
more than 0.1 percent on the day. The yield on the government’s
10-year bond was unchanged at 3.869 percent.  The central bank cut rates last week for a second month,
saying the easing cycle will continue. The bank is the only one
in the EU to raise borrowing costs this year, with inflation
exceeding the target since October 2010. Its consumer-price
tolerance range is between 1.5 percent to 3.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  