-- Poll Says Republicans Get More Blame if Budget Talks Fail
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-12-13T00:55:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/poll-says-republicans-get-more-blame-if-budget-talks-fail.html
More Americans would blame
congressional Republicans than President  Barack Obama  if talks
to avoid automatic tax hikes and spending cuts break down,
according to a poll released today.  The  NBC News/Wall Street Journal survey  also showed that
more than three-fourths of respondents -- 76 percent -- would
accept as part of a deal taxes increasing as scheduled on
families with annual incomes exceeding $250,000, the position
Obama has staked out. Additionally, twice as many people said
they trusted Obama over U.S. House Speaker John Boehner, an Ohio
Republican, in the talks on avoiding the so-called fiscal cliff.  The poll is the most recent to give Obama an advantage over
congressional Republicans in the debate on averting more than
$600 billion in tax increases and spending reductions scheduled
to take effect in January. Quinnipiac University and the Pew
Research Center/ Washington  Post polls also showed the public
siding more with Obama.  Obama wants the tax cuts for the wealthiest 2 percent of
taxpayers to expire as planned, which Boehner and fellow
Republicans oppose while pushing for cuts in Medicare and other
entitlement programs.  If the White House and Congress fail to make a deal, 24
percent said in the new poll that they would blame congressional
Republicans, while 19 percent would blame Obama. A majority, 56
percent, said both sides would be responsible.  Trust Question  Respondents said they trusted Obama over Boehner on the
fiscal cliff negotiations, 38 percent to 19 percent. Another 14
percent said they trusted both equally, while 29 percent trusted
neither.  The poll showed that 68 percent view the fiscal cliff as a
serious problem and that respondents are deadlocked -- at 48
percent each -- on whether they think an agreement would be
reached. Favoring the push for a deal are 65 percent, compared
with 28 percent who said both parties should stick to their
positions.  Obama’s job approval rating of 53 percent is the highest
he’s gotten in the poll since January 2011  The survey of 1,000 adults was taken Dec. 6-9 and has a
margin of error of plus or minus 3.1 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
in Washington at   jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 