-- Pound Heads for Weekly Gain as Home Prices Add to Growth Signs
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2012-12-14T13:13:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/pound-declines-against-dollar-before-u-k-manufacturing-report.html
The pound headed for a second weekly
gain versus the dollar after an industry group predicted U.K.
house prices will accelerate next year and a  Bank of England 
official said the economy will improve.  Sterling appreciated against 12 of its 16 major
counterparts as investors said  Standard & Poor’s  decision
yesterday to lower the U.K.’s credit-rating outlook will have
little impact. Ten-year gilts dropped for a sixth day as
European Union leaders pledged to seek a joint strategy for
handling failing banks, damping demand for safer investments.  “The global economic outlook has improved and my view is
that the pound will benefit from that and it might be more
resilient than many thought,” said  Neil Jones , head of European
hedge fund sales at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. “Any setback
from the S&P’s decision is likely to be short-lived because all
it did was confirm what the market already knew.”  The pound was little changed at $1.6117 at 1:04 p.m.  London 
time after rising to $1.6172 on Dec. 12, the strongest since
Nov. 1. It gained 0.5 percent this week. The U.K. currency was
also little changed at 81.15 pence per euro after sliding as
much as 0.3 percent yesterday following S&P’s announcement.  Bank of England Markets Director  Paul Fisher  told Reuters
yesterday the U.K. economy will pick up slowly during next year
and the deflation risk has subsided, reducing the need to “do
asset purchases in large scale.”  Home Values  U.K. home values will increase 2 percent in 2013 after a 1
percent gain this year, the  Royal Institution  of Chartered
Surveyors said in a report. Still, the recovery will be
“modest” because of the difficult economic environment, it
said. A separate report from Acadametrics showed prices rose 0.2
percent in November.  U.K. jobless claims unexpectedly declined in November, the
 Office for National Statistics  said Dec. 12, while the
 Confederation of British Industry  said yesterday its gauge of
 manufacturing orders  improved in December.  The pound has gained 1.3 percent this year, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-market currencies. The euro declined 1.7 percent and
the dollar fell 2.7 percent.  S&P lowered its outlook on Britain’s AAA grade to negative
from stable, meaning there is one-in-three chance it may cut the
rating in the next two years, the agency said in a statement in
London. This may happen if the U.K. economic and fiscal
performance “weaken beyond our current expectations,” the
rating company said.  ‘Virtually Meaningless’  “We don’t see it as significant” for gilts, said  Stuart Thomson , who helps oversee about $120 billion as a  fund manager 
at Ignis Asset Management in Glasgow, Scotland. “A move from
AAA to AA+ has lost its impact, if it ever had any. The impact
on default is virtually meaningless.”  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  played down the
importance of Britain’s top credit rating, saying it is only one
gauge of the economy’s health. Speaking to Parliament’s  Treasury
Committee  hours before S&P’s announcement, he said the rating is
“one test alongside others and the ultimate test is what you
can borrow money at.”  EU finance ministers meeting overnight in Brussels agreed
to put the  European Central Bank  in charge of all euro-area
lenders in a deal that paves the way for the currency bloc’s
firewall fund to provide direct bailouts to banks.  The 10-year gilt yield climbed one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 1.87 percent. The 1.75 percent bond due in
September 2022 declined 0.085, or 85 pence per 1,000-pound face
amount, to 98.935. The yield has increased 13 basis points this
week, the most since the period ended Oct. 19.  U.K. bonds handed investors a loss of 0.9 percent gain this
month through yesterday, according to indexes compiled by
Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies. German bonds rose 0.3 percent and Treasuries declined
0.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  