-- Producer Faces $12 Million Deadline for ‘Rebecca’ Musical
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-12-13T05:53:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/producer-faces-12-million-deadline-for-rebecca-musical.html
Cast members from “Rebecca,” the
ill-fated musical set in a spooky mansion of many rooms,
gathered last week in a cozy Theater District basement.  They opened a benefit for  Broadway Cares/Equity Fights AIDS 
at  54 Below  with an elegy to the show and would-be impresario
Ben Sprecher, set to the melody of “Maria” from “West Side
Story.”  “Rebecca!” they sang. “Ben Sprecha! Booked us in a show
named ‘Rebecca!’ And suddenly her name will never be the same to
me. ‘Rebecca,’ my Broadway debut was ‘Rebecca.’ And suddenly I
found, a contract could just cease to be.”  Although “Rebecca” was scuttled before the first
rehearsal, the cast was paid for two weeks of performances and
one week of rehearsals, said Maria Somma, a spokesman for
 Actors’ Equity Association .  That’s small consolation for those who left work or turned
down jobs for the show, originally scheduled to open in early
2012 and postponed indefinitely in September because of a multi-
million-dollar budget shortfall.  For months, Sprecher was led on by a Long Island man who
allegedly was paid to bring in investors who proved to be
fictional, according to prosecutors.  Pay Now  If Sprecher doesn’t raise the minimum $12 million
capitalization by year-end, he must return money “forthwith”
to any investors who haven’t waived their right to a refund,
according to offering papers obtained from the office of New
York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman through a Freedom of
Information Law request.  The budget is within the going rate for musicals. The new
revival of “Annie” was capitalized for about $12 million.  Sprecher has said he’s talked to investors about amending
the offering papers. He declined to comment for this story. His
co-producer, Louise Forlenza, didn’t return an e-mail.  On October 1, at what was to be the first rehearsal,
Sprecher told the company that he was exploring co-producing the
show in Toronto with Mirvish Productions, according to someone
who heard him and spoke on condition of anonymity because the
meeting was private. Mirvish founder David Mirvish didn’t return
a call.  Returning investor funds wouldn’t be easy. As of December
31, 2011, the production had spent $1.3 million, according to a
listing of prepaid preliminary production costs, led by $700,000
for scenery. The “Rebecca Broadway Limited Partnership” had
$475,223 in cash at the time.  Opening Party  The director, Tony Award-winning Michael Blakemore, was
paid $37,107, plus an advance of $11,667.  Set designer Peter Davison, whose dramatic staircase was
featured in the promotional material, received $16,750, nearly
half his $35,000 production fee.  No payment is listed for Sprecher or Sprecher/Forlenza
Productions. The general partner’s compensation was to include
up to 7.4 percent of operating profits, should investors get
their money back plus 10 percent.  While the production budget didn’t scrimp on an opening
night party ($100,000) and gifts ($50,000), it’s no $75-million
“Spider-Man: Turn off the Dark.”  Were it to open and gross $1.1 million a week, “Spider-
Man” territory, “Rebecca” could repay investors in 36 weeks.  Principal actors were to be paid $2,200 to $7,000 a week.
The actors playing Mrs. de Winter, Maxim de Winter and Mrs.
Danvers were to be the best-compensated cast members, earning
the top amount.  Holiday Cheer  D.C. Anderson, who was to play a butler in “Rebecca” and
wrote the parody performed at 54 Below, said everyone previously
involved with the production with whom he’s spoken has good
wishes for Sprecher and the show.  Music director Kevin Stites said that while he doesn’t
regret his involvement with “Rebecca” -- particularly in
creating a production in Stuttgart,  Germany  -- he’s unemployed
at Christmas despite his two-year investment.  “At times I go over this and wish they had been more
forthcoming about the problems,” Stites said about the
shortfall and investor “Paul Abrams,” who was rumored to have
died of malaria and turned out to never exist. “But I don’t
know what they should’ve said.”  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars and  Jeremy
Gerard  on theater.  To contact the reporter of this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech in  London  at 
 mbeech@bloomberg.net . 