-- Qatar Dreamliner Grounded on Fault Echoing United Jet’s
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n   a n d   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2012-12-14T00:36:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/qatar-airways-boeing-787-grounded-with-same-fault-as-united-jet.html
Qatar Airways Ltd. said a 787 jet
received from  Boeing Co. (BA)  this week remains grounded with a
faulty generator, a problem similar to what forced last week’s
emergency landing of a Dreamliner operated by  United Continental
Holdings Inc. (UAL)   Qatar Air’s third 787 exhibited the failure on its Dec. 9
delivery flight from the U.S., Akbar  Al Baker , the Gulf
carrier’s chief executive officer, said yesterday at  London ’s
 Heathrow airport . The plane may remain grounded for at least
another four days while Boeing sends spares and a recovery team.  “These problems are unacceptable because this aircraft has
been flying for the last 14 months,” Al Baker said, referring
to the Dreamliner, which entered commercial service late last
year. He added that Doha-based Qatar Air will ask Boeing to
cover its losses. “Definitely we will demand compensation. We
are not buying airplanes from them to put in a museum.”  The U.S.  Federal Aviation Administration  said yesterday
it’s working with Boeing to find the root cause of the recent
generator issues. United’s 787 was forced to land in  New Orleans 
on Dec. 4 after a panel failed, sending error messages from one
of six generators.  The model’s new electrical system is one of its key selling
points. The 787, the world’s first composite-plastic jet, saves
on fuel with a system that doesn’t divert air from the engines
for power, instead using five times as much electricity as older
jets.  “Two aircraft having the same problem -- the same major
problem -- so quickly is a cause of concern,” Al Baker said.  ‘Working Expeditiously’  Chicago-based Boeing said it’s too early to say if the
Qatar failure was the same as United’s.  “Boeing is working as expeditiously as possible to perform
the replacement of electrical components needed to return Qatar
Airway’s third 787 to service,” said  Lori Gunter , a spokeswoman
in Everett,  Washington , where the planes were assembled. “We’re
going to give the technical team sufficient time to review the
findings of both events and understand how they might be similar
or different.”  United Technologies Corp.’s UTC Aerospace Systems, which
includes the former Hamilton Sundstrand unit that makes the
787’s generators, is “working very, very closely with Boeing to
help resolve the issue,” said Dan Coulom, a spokesman for the
company in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina . He referred further
questions to Boeing, which declined to discuss technical details
of the Qatar incident or to provide an update on the United one.  FAA Review  United determined last week’s failure happened when “a
problem with a power distribution panel caused a nuisance
generator fault indication,” said Christen David, a spokeswoman
for the Chicago-based carrier. The panel was replaced and the
jet has returned to service, David said.  The FAA will work with Boeing to develop “appropriate
safety actions” once the source of the failures has been
identified,  Laura Brown , a spokeswoman for the agency, said in
an e-mail.  Al Baker said the generator glitch is particularly galling
given that the 787’s commercial debut was delayed for 3 1/2
years because of struggles with new materials and production
techniques, and because the model has been flying for so long.
The 787’s first test flight was three years ago this week.  “I don’t think there is any excuse,” said the executive,
who was at  London Heathrow  following Qatar Air’s first flight
there with another of its 787s. “There will be teething
problems, yes, minor teething problems.”  ‘Fingers Crossed’  Qatar Airways, the second biggest Gulf carrier, is due to
get two more 787s on Dec. 19, taking the fleet to five, Al Baker
said. That will increase to 10 by the end of 2013, compared with
an original plan for 30 by then before the program delays, he
said.  “Hopefully, with the ramp up of production at Boeing we
will receive some more, but for that I will keep my fingers
crossed,” the CEO said. “We have told Boeing that this kind of
problem is unacceptable to us because we are already falling
behind our expansion program.”  Holdups with the Dreamliner have already forced Qatar Air
into a “huge upgrade program” for its similarly sized Airbus
SAS A330 planes in order to extend operations for at least three
years, he said. Some of the carrier’s 29 A330s will get new
seats and in-flight entertainment, he said.  ‘Fine Airplanes’  Still, the performance of 787s delivered has been “quite
adequate,” Al Baker said, and Qatar Air has seen no evidence of
a separate fuel-leak problem that led the FAA a week ago to
order inspections and repairs.  “Boeing makes fine airplanes,” he said. “We hope we will
always work with them as long as they satisfy our
requirements.”  Al Baker said that Qatar Air has examined a bid for Czech
Airlines AS after the Czech government last month revived
attempts to find a buyer for the state-owned carrier.  “We looked at them, but rumors that  Qatar Airways  is about
to conclude a deal with them are not true,” he said, adding
that his airline is sometimes used as “bait to create
interest.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  