-- Qatar Fund, Canary Wharf Plan $1.6 Billion London Project
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2012-12-13T11:34:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/qatar-fund-canary-wharf-plan-1-6-billion-london-project.html
Canary Wharf  Group Plc and Qatar’s
sovereign-wealth fund are seeking to build as many as 790 homes
at the site of  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s London headquarters to
gain from surging prices and rising rents in the U.K. capital.  Canary Wharf, which controls the financial district of the
same name, and a unit of the fund will spend more than 1 billion
pounds ($1.61 billion), including land purchased last year, to
develop eight buildings on the south bank of the  River Thames .
Six of the buildings, including a 37-story tower, will be
residential properties, John Pagano, Canary Wharf’s managing
director of development, said in an interview.  “Our aim is to enhance an area in need of a renaissance,”
Mohammed bin Ali Al Hedfa, chief executive officer of Qatari
Diar Real Estate Investment Co., said in a statement today. “We
are confident that our proposed development will put a
reinvigorated South Bank at its rightful place at the capital’s
heart.”  London  home prices have risen 24 percent from a May 2009
low as a resilient job market fueled demand and foreign
investors bought property to protect their wealth from volatile
markets elsewhere in the world. Home-rental rates in the U.K.
capital have risen more than 6 percent in the past year to a
record, even as employment in the financial-services industry
fell to a 20-year low, according to HomeLet, the U.K.’s largest
tenant reference checking and rentals-insurance company.  Office Buildings  Shell, based in  The Hague , will lease one of the two new
office buildings and will also continue to own its existing 27-
story office tower at the site near Waterloo rail station, the
three companies said in today’s statement. Shops and streets
will also be built at the project, which is scheduled to be
completed in 2019.  Qatari Diar and Canary Wharf agreed to buy the 5.25-acre
(2.12-hectare) site for 300 million pounds, according to a July
2011 statement. The deal was contingent on the project winning
planning approval within three years.  Planning permission is likely to be sought from the borough
of Lambeth in the next week. The companies are seeking to get
approval by June and complete construction of the new Shell
building in 2015 or 2016, Canary Wharf’s Pagano said by
telephone. One of the housing buildings may be kept and used for
renting out units, he said.  Improved Appearance  Lambeth has asked developers around Waterloo station,
including Qatari Diar and Canary Wharf, to improve the area’s
appearance and to build more attractive buildings than those
currently there, according to a  document  published by the
borough last month.  “The intention is that the station becomes part of a
network of buildings and streets, rather than a single structure
that dominates at the expense of other ‘place making’
ambitions,” the borough said in the document.  Qatari Diar projects, including CityCenterDC in  Washington 
and  Chelsea Barracks  in London, have a combined value of more
than $35 billion, according to the fund’s website.  Canary Wharf is controlled by Songbird Estates Plc, in
which a separate Qatari investment fund owns almost a 28 percent
 stake .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 