-- TransCanada Wins Bid to Lift Order Blocking Pipeline
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-12-13T18:25:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/transcanada-asks-to-remove-order-blocking-keystone-in-texas.html
TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  won a bid to lift
a temporary court order blocking construction of part of its
Keystone XL pipeline in the eastern part of the state.  Landowner  Michael Bishop  sued Calgary-based TransCanada
last week, alleging they coerced him into a settlement that
granted an easement across his farm near Nacogdoches, about
100 miles (160 kilometers) northeast of Houston. He claimed
the pipeline’s permits are invalid because Keystone is
permitted to carry only crude oil, not bitumen from Canadian
tar sands.  Texas County Court at Law Judge Jack Sinz granted Bishop a
temporary restraining order on Dec. 7, which blocked pipeline
crews from working on his property for two weeks. Sinz lifted
his own order today at a hearing in court in Nacogdoches.  “I feel I have no choice but to dissolve the temporary
restraining order,” Sinz said. “You’ve raised some interesting
questions but you’ve taken their money and given them an
easement. And you knew all this when you did it. The case will
proceed and I’ll continue to consider it.”  At the hearing, TransCanada lawyer James Freeman said the
company had countersued Bishop, alleging breach of the
settlement contract.  Mediation  “He had the right to settle his issues in the eminent-
domain proceeding that he settled in mediation,” Freeman said.
“He is in breach of his settlement and his grant of easement.”  Bishop, a 64-year-old retired chemist who owns a biofuels
company, told the judge today that he was aware TransCanada
planned to transport bitumen through the pipeline but he felt
forced to follow his attorney’s advice to settle before the
condemnation commission granted the easement at a lower price.  TransCanada has been battling landowners and environmental
groups at sites along the southernmost leg of its 2,151-mile
pipeline between western  Canada  and the U.S. refining industry
complex on the Texas Gulf Coast.  So far, none of the legal challenges has permanently halted
construction on the pipeline, which will carry liquefied bitumen
obtained by heating tar sands, along with traditional crude oil
produced from fields in  North Dakota ,  Oklahoma  and West Texas,
Tom Zabel, another of TransCanada’s lawyers, said in an
interview.  Another Hearing  Sinz asked Bishop and TransCanada to return for another
hearing next week, when he will hear evidence regarding
definitions of bitumen and petroleum products and consider what
substances Bishop’s settlement and the company’s permits allow
Keystone to transmit.  “Do you have authority from the state of Texas to
transport something other than crude oil?” Sinz asked
Freeman.  “Yes, I do,” the attorney replied. “I have my Railroad
Commission permits, and if he has a problem with them, he can
take it up with the Railroad Commission.”  Bishop has also filed a lawsuit against the Texas Railroad
Commission, which regulates pipelines in Texas, challenging the
agency’s certification of Keystone as a common carrier under
state law. A hearing in that case is set for next week in
Austin, the state capital.  Freeman said Bishop has known that Keystone will carry  tar
sands  oil throughout condemnation proceedings that have lasted
more than 18 months.  Coercion, Duress  Bishop’s settlement allows TransCanada to build a pipeline
that carries liquified bitumen under terms permitting transport
of “oil and crude petroleum products,” Freeman told Sinz.
“That’s what we negotiated. That’s what he granted, and that’s
what he has to live with.”  After the hearing, Bishop said he should be able to rescind
his settlement if he can show he signed the agreement as a
result of coercion, duress, fraud or misrepresentation.  “Sometimes, you have to do what you have to do, then you
come back, regroup and formulate a plan of attack to right the
wrong,” Bishop said. “I lost the battle today, but I didn’t
lose the war. The fight is on.”  David Dodson, TransCanada’s spokesman, said the ruling will
allow construction to resume on Bishop’s property.  “We’re very pleased the judge seemed to agree with us that
it is difficult for Mr. Bishop to claim coercion when, in the
presence of his lawyer and in mediation, he agreed to the
easement and he knew what would be in the pipe,” Dodson said
after the hearing.  The case is Bishop v. TransCanada Keystone Pipeline LP,
CV1213077, County Court at Law, Nacogdoches County,  Texas .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Nacogdoches at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 