-- Threatened Cyber Attack on Banks ‘Credible,’ McAfee Says
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n   a n d   J o r d a n   R o b e r t s o n
-- 2012-12-13T20:25:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/threatened-cyber-attack-on-banks-credible-mcafee-says.html
A cyber fraud campaign targeting
U.S. brokerages and banks is a “credible threat,” and at least
500 accounts are vulnerable after early attacks planted software
that could help thieves steal money, according to a  report 
released today.  Plans announced by a cybercriminal known as vorVzakone to
attack 30 U.S. banks by next spring, in a campaign dubbed
Project Blitzkrieg, appear to be authentic, according to the
report from  Intel Corp. (INTC) ’s McAfee unit, which sells security
software.  McAfee said it found evidence that initial forays had
installed software on accountholders’ computers that would let
hackers get access to balances and information needed to
transfer money.  “We do know that the thieves have had an active system
since April 2012, with at least 500 victims who can be linked to
vorVzakone,” the report said. “Most victims’ accounts are at
investment banks. It will be interesting to see how the
attackers will move money from these accounts, which are
certainly targets of high value.”  VorVzakone announced plans for the campaign in an online
posting in September that sought to recruit hackers. The
software being used in the campaign has been in development
since 2008 and online thieves have used it to steal $5 million,
according to the posting.  The McAfee report said that, while vorVzakone’s declaration
was met with initial skepticism, it had found evidence of
malware infecting computers with access to online accounts.  ‘Real Attack’  “What the McAfee report has done has confirmed this may in
fact be a real attack in the spring,”  Doug Johnson , vice
president of risk management policy at the  American Bankers
Association  in  Washington , said in an interview. “We’re
operating under the assumption that the attack is going to occur
and defending ourselves accordingly.”  The campaign is “fairly narrow in scope,” and the banking
industry has a lot of information about the attackers’ methods,
Johnson said.  The malicious software infects personal computers via e-
mail messages, steals the user names and passwords of victims
when they access their online accounts, and sends that
information to a remote server, said Ryan Sherstobitoff, a
researcher at McAfee Labs who prepared the report. The software
lets online thieves connect remotely and access accounts through
the victim’s computer, making it harder to identify the location
of the criminals, he said.  Under Radar  In some cases, the malware is grabbing account balance
information, an indication that the criminals are sifting
through the data to target rich clients, Sherstobitoff said.  “McAfee Labs believes that Project Blitzkrieg is a
credible threat to the financial industry and appears to be
moving forward as planned,” the report said.  The campaign is targeting accounts at investment banks,
consumer banks and  credit unions , Sherstobitoff said, declining
to name targeted companies. The report said attacks appears to
be selective, rather than a mass campaign.  “Rather they will stay under the radar by attacking
selected groups,” according to the report. “A limited number
of infections reduces the malware’s footprint and makes it hard
for network defenses to detect its activities.”  While coordinated fraud campaigns against banks aren’t new,
the latest threat is noteworthy for the mass profit-sharing
model the attackers have proposed, said Sean Bodmer, chief
researcher at CounterTack Inc., a computer security firm.  “It would seem that the criminal underground is maturing
at a much faster pace than world governments believe,” Bodmer
wrote in an e-mail.  Many of the largest U.S. banks including  Bank of America
Corp.  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  were targeted by hackers in a
series of so-called denial of service attacks this year that
flooded the banks’ websites with traffic and caused disruptions
for online customers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  