-- Red Sox’s Victorino Cites Yankee Rivalry as Influence on Signing
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-12-13T18:05:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/red-sox-s-victorino-cites-yankee-rivalry-as-influence-on-signing.html
Outfielder Shane Victorino said he
signed with the  Boston Red Sox  because of the team’s tradition
and rivalry with the  New York  Yankees.  Victorino agreed last week on the free-agent contract that
ESPN said is worth $39 million. Terms weren’t disclosed in a
news release today officially announcing the deal.  “If you look around the game of baseball, there’s one
rivalry that you speak of, the Yankees and  Red Sox ,” Victorino
said at a televised news conference from Fenway Park.  He dismissed concerns about the Red Sox’s performance this
past season, when they finished last in the American League East
at 69-93, their worst record since 1965.  “There was no convincing,” he said. “It’s Boston.”  Victorino has a .344 career batting average against the
Yankees in 36 plate appearances.  A two-time All-Star who has won three Gold Gloves for his
play in the outfield, Victorino played his first 7 1/2 seasons
with the  Philadelphia Phillies  before being traded to the Los
Angeles Dodgers in July.  A career .275 batter, the 32-year-old Victorino hit .255
last season, including a .245 average in 53 games with the
Dodgers as free-agency loomed.  “I was worried about where I was going to be instead of
playing the game,” he said today.  Victorino, who said he’d be happy playing right field or
center field for the Red Sox, has 90 career home runs, 409 runs
batted in, 65 triples and 201 stolen bases, including 39 last
season. He helped the Phillies win the  World Series  in 2008.  “I hope it’s not worse than Philly,” he said when
discussing the scrutiny that will come with playing in Boston.
“I hope you guys aren’t that much tougher because that was a
pretty tough market.”  The Red Sox fired manager  Bobby Valentine  after one year
with the club and replaced him with John Farrell, their former
pitching coach.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  