-- GOP Skeptical of White House’s Sandy Cleanup Request
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-12-13T21:25:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/republicans-skeptical-of-white-house-s-sandy-cleanup-aid-request.html
Republicans are on a collision
course with President  Barack Obama  over his request for $60.4
billion in cleanup funds for superstorm Sandy.  Some say they doubt whether the full amount is urgently
needed, and they’re telling leaders that most, if not all, of
the money must be offset with cuts elsewhere in the government’s
budget.  “At some point, you got to ask the question: Are we going
to pay our bills or are we going to sock it to the next
generation?” said Representative  Jeb Hensarling  of  Texas , the
chamber’s No. 4 Republican.  The administration’s request, formally made last week, is
hitting Congress at a politically awkward time. Lawmakers are
consumed with trying to find budget cuts to stave off the so-
called fiscal cliff, and there are only weeks left in this
session of Congress.  The request is “an awful big bite to swallow” when “we
are trying to solve the deficit problem,” said  Jon Kyl  of
 Arizona , the Senate’s Republican whip.  Senate Democrats , as well as the administration, want the
money to be considered an emergency that can be financed with
borrowed money.  It is “fundamentally unfair” to require cuts in return
for aid, said Senator  Dick Durbin , the chamber’s No. 2 Democrat
from  Illinois . “Even in Republican states, we have natural
disasters,” referring to the fact that the states affected by
Sandy are mostly represented by Democrats.  Senate Consideration  Majority Democrats in the Senate plan to take up their own
draft of the plan, granting the administration’s entire funding
request.  The Democrats released a 94-page bill that makes some
changes to the details in the administration’s $60.4 billion
request. It doesn’t include offsets.  “"Hopefully we can get support, full support, from
colleagues on both sides of the aisle so we can pass this bill
next week,” said Senator  Charles Schumer  of New York, a
Democrat.  The bill would provide for $11.5 billion for FEMA’s
disaster relief fund and $17 billion for community development
block grants. It also calls for $921 million to repair roads and
bridges, far more than then $308 million sought by the
administration. It would provide $336 million for  Amtrak ; $32
million was requested. For mass transit, the bill would provide
$10.8 billion rather than the $11.7 billion requested by the
White House.  Alaska Money  The package put together by the Senate Appropriations
Committee also would provide disaster aid far from the Atlantic
shore: $150 million for fishery disasters declared by the
Secretary of Commerce in 2012.  A bipartisan group of lawmakers from  New York  and  New
Jersey  say they will introduce separate legislation that would
provide tax breaks to those affected by the storm.  “There is no real tax relief in the supplemental” funding
request by the administration, said Representative Bill Pascrell, a New Jersey Democrat. “So this is like the financial
side of it for residents as well as small businessmen.”  A government report issued yesterday showing most of the
cleanup money won’t be spent anytime soon could fan Republican
skepticism.  Later Years  Just $9.1 billion of the money will be spent in the fiscal
year ending Sept. 30, according to a preliminary analysis by the
nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office , with another $12.6
billion going out the door next year. The remainder would be
spent in subsequent years, according to the report.  “There’s a lot of stuff in there that isn’t immediate and
right now our focus needs to be on what’s immediate,” said
Senator  John Thune , a South Dakota Republican.  House Republicans  may approve the money in tranches, said
Jennifer Hing, a spokeswoman for the Appropriations Committee.
That would enable them to separate funding for “legitimate
emergency” needs from longer-term reconstruction projects
needing a “longer, harder look,” she said.  Republicans are skeptical of such requested items as $150
million to purchase floodplain easements and $400 million to buy
pieces of land to mitigate the damage from future flooding
events.  Representative Mick Mulvaney, a South Carolina Republican,
scoffed at suggestions his colleagues may feel less urgency
about approving aid to blue states such as New York and New
Jersey.  “I recognize the fact that it could happen to my state,”
said Mulvaney. “If it happens to my state, I’ll be here the
next day trying to figure out a way to save the money so we can
pay for it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net ;
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  