-- RIM Says U.S. Immigration to Test BlackBerry 10 Phones
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r   a n d   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y
-- 2012-12-13T21:36:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/rim-says-u-s-immigration-to-test-blackberry-10-phones.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  said U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement will test its new BlackBerry
10 devices early next year, becoming one of the first government
agencies to try the new operating system.  U.S. Immigration will test the handsets along with RIM’s
new enterprise software designed for large corporate and
business customers, the Waterloo, Ontario-based company said in
a statement.  RIM is counting on the new BlackBerry 10 operating system
to win back market share lost in recent years to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
iOS and  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating systems. While
consulting firm Booz Allen Hamilton and the  National
Transportation Safety Board  have dropped BlackBerry phones, U.S.
Immigration plans to use devices from both RIM and Apple.  The pilot project is a “prudent” technology management
practice and doesn’t conflict with a separate plan to buy
iPhones made by Cupertino, California-based Apple, said Barbara Gonzalez, press secretary for the agency.  “We’re not backing away from iOS, nor RIM,” she said, in
a telephone interview. “We’ve had a long and good relationship
with RIM.”  RIM is picking up the tab for the pilot project, Nick Manning, a company spokesman, said.  The agency said in an Oct. 17 solicitation document that it
plans to spend $2.1 million on iPhones for 17,676 employees.  U.S. Immigration, part of the Department of  Homeland
Security , is developing mobile applications for  law enforcement 
and is looking into how BlackBerrys may be able to provide those
services in the future, Gonzalez said.  RIM gained 4.1 percent to $13.86 at the close in New York.
The stock has more than doubled since a rally that began Sept.
24, just before the company’s last earnings report. RIM is
scheduled to report earnings Dec. 20.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
Brendan McGarry in Washington at 
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  