-- Russian Power Tandem Wobbles as Medvedev Spars With Putin
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2012-12-13T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/russian-power-tandem-wobbles-as-medvedev-spars-with-putin.html
Vladimir Putin ’s return to the
Kremlin cemented his position atop  Russia ’s pecking order.
 Dmitry Medvedev , the protege he pushed aside, is having
difficulty accepting that.  “It’s not the easiest thing to do, when you become prime
minister after serving as president,” Prime Minister Medvedev
said in an  interview  with French media including Le Figaro on
Nov. 26. He left open the possibility of seeking re-election as
head of state if he has public support. He last week repeated in
an interview broadcast on five Russian television channels that
he may run for the Kremlin.  While Putin as president has the legal authority to banish
Medvedev from the government, the premier’s dismissal would risk
turning him into a rallying figure for the opposition, according
to  Olga Kryshtanovskaya , a former member of the ruling party and
sociologist who studies the elite at the Russian Academy of
Sciences. The protests from last December to March were the
largest against Putin since he came to power in 1999.  Medvedev, 46, is pushing back against the state’s growing
stakes in Russia’s biggest companies and the broader economy. He
has also clashed with Putin, 60, over his acquiescence in the
Western-led overthrow of  Libya ’s Muammar Qaddafi and criticized
the jailing of punk group Pussy Riot members.  “It is very clear from Medvedev’s many speeches that he
doesn’t like state capitalism and prefers privatization,” said
Sergei Guriev, rector of the New Economic School in Moscow and a
government adviser in an interview.  Putin’s Veto  Putin on Dec. 12 vetoed a law passed by parliament that
would have eased rules for the Skolkovo innovation hub, a
project championed by Medvedev, threatening to widen the rift
between the two men. The law will be amended and resubmitted
for approval, said Natalya Timakova, Medvedev’s spokeswoman.  “There are no problems between the president and prime
minister,” Timakova said by phone yesterday. They “work as a
single team.”  State-owned OAO Rosneft’s $55 billion planned takeover of
 BP Plc (BP/) ’s Russian venture to create the world’s largest publicly
traded oil company by volume will take the government share of
the economy above 50 percent and make the biggest global energy
exporter more dependent on natural resources.  While Medvedev hasn’t openly criticized the deal, his close
ally, Deputy Prime Minister  Arkady Dvorkovich , in an interview
with business daily Vedomosti in September said he opposed it
because it served “no useful purpose” to expand any state
company’s role in the economy. Putin, who said last year that
Russia must avoid liberal “experiments” to ensure sustainable
growth, personally blessed the Rosneft acquisition.  Russia Discount  Russia’s benchmark Micex stock index is down 0.82 percent
in the past three months, compared with a gain of 6 percent in 
the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index.  Russian stocks are the cheapest in the index because of
corporate governance and corruption concerns, oil and gas
dependency and a lack of a long-term domestic investor base,
according to  Roland Nash , chief investment strategist at Verno
Capital, which manages $200 million in Russian equities.  Medvedev’s approach of promoting private companies over the
state ownership of assets is supported by part of the political
leadership and major corporations, said  Dmitry Oreshkin , an
independent Moscow-based analyst. Still, he failed to implement
these principles even while he had a chance as president,
Oreshkin added.  State-owned companies account for about $1.14 trillion, or
half of Russia’s economic output, according to  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ’s
Moscow unit. That’s up from about 42 percent in 2008 and 38
percent in 2006 and doesn’t take account of the TNK-BP
acquisition, BNP said in an Oct. 22 research note.  ‘Autocratic Style’  Putin in his first 12 years of power, the last four as
prime minister, presided over a period of stability after the
post-Soviet political and economic upheavals of the 1990s.
Russian economic growth averaged around 7 percent between 2000
and 2008, buoyed by high  oil prices .  The Russian leader’s actions today as he seeks to preserve
his rule are adding to nervousness among investors, according to
 Jim O’Neill , chairman of  Goldman Sachs (GS)  Asset Management.  “He was very popular and stood for stability, but now it
looks like his style is not so popular anymore,” O’Neill said
in a Nov. 28 interview in  London . Investors “don’t trust
Russian governance or the rule of business law, the autocratic
style in which Putin has come back.”  Succession Game  Putin in 2007 selected Medvedev as his successor when the
constitution prevented the then-president from seeking a third
consecutive term. Putin became prime minister after Medvedev
stepped aside to make way for him to return to the Kremlin in
May after March elections won by the Russian leader with 64
percent of the vote, compared with 71 percent in 2004.  The two men had their first high-profile dispute in March
last year, when Medvedev as president criticized Putin for
calling the NATO-led campaign in Libya a “crusade.” Medvedev
had ordered Russia to abstain from the United Nations vote that
allowed the military action in Libya rather than using a Russian
veto to block it. Since Putin has returned to the presidency,
the disagreements have centered on the state role in the economy
and human rights issues.  The prime minister has criticized the two-year jail
sentences handed down to three members of Pussy Riot for their
anti-Putin stunt in a Moscow cathedral as excessive, saying on
state television in September that they should have been set
free at their trial. Putin in an October television interview
said the defendants “got what they wanted.”  Khodorkovsky Case  Medvedev as president said in December after the protests
started that he understood the need for change and restored
direct elections for regional governors, abolished by Putin in
2004. In May 2011, he said that freeing jailed former Yukos Oil
Co. billionaire  Mikhail Khodorkovsky  wouldn’t be “dangerous”
for Russia. Putin has said that Khodorkovsky has blood on his
hands and “thieves should sit in jail.”  Medvedev on Oct. 22 criticized the possibility of state
companies buying stakes in privatized asset. Under a plan
approved by Putin in May, a state holding company will acquire
stakes in energy assets being sold off by the government.  “It’s clear that Putin doesn’t like Medvedev’s actions,”
said  Gleb Pavlovsky , a former Kremlin adviser. “The prime
minister’s job is the second post in the country and I think
Putin regretted giving it to him.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  