-- Russia Stocks Headed for Seventh Days of Gains on Fed Stimulus
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2012-12-13T08:42:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/russia-stocks-fall-first-day-in-7-as-bank-stocks-drop-on-budget.html
Russian stocks  headed for a seventh
day of gains after the U.S. Federal Reserve expanded its bond-
buying program, boosting appetite for riskier assets.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  rose 0.2 percent to 1,468.81 by 12 p.m. in
Moscow, erasing an earlier decline of 0.4 percent. OAO
Rostelecom,  Russia ’s state-run telephone operator, added 1.2
percent, while OAO Protek, a pharmaceuticals company, surged 11
percent.  Emerging-market stocks rose after the Fed said yesterday it
will boost its asset purchases and central bank officials
forecast it will maintain near zero  interest rates  until 2015.
The Micex slid earlier as crude traded down 0.3 percent at
$86.49 a barrel in  New York . Republicans have “some serious
differences” with President  Barack Obama ’s budget proposals,
House Speaker  John Boehner  told reporters in  Washington .  Initial optimism over the Fed’s plans “faded as the fiscal
cliff reared its ugly head, pressuring risk sentiment,” VTB
Capital analysts Maxim Korovin and Anton Nikitin wrote in an e-
mailed report today.  Rostelecom climbed for a seventh day after Deputy Prime
Minister  Arkady Dvorkovich  urged the company’s board and
Telecommunications Ministry officials to improve their
cooperation and work on a merger with Svyazinvest. The shares
gained to 118.79 rubles.  Protek jumped the most since August after Interfax reported
the company is seeking regulatory approval to buy back shares.
The stock surged as much as 11 percent before trading up 6.6
percent at 29.20 rubles.  VimpelCom, Algeria  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the largest dedicated
Russian exchange-traded fund, rose 1 percent to $29.35
yesterday, the highest level since Oct. 18.  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP) , the world’s sixth-biggest mobile phone
company by subscribers, slipped 1.7 percent yesterday to $11.06.  VimpelCom and the Algerian government have formed a new
company to operate VimpelCom’s Orascom Telecom Holding SAE’s
local unit, Vincenzo Nesci, chairman of Orascom-Telecom Algerie,
also known as Djezzy, told reporters yesterday in Algiers. The
new company, Optimum Telecom Algerie, is 51 percent owned by
 Algeria  with the remaining portion held by VimpelCom, Nesci
said.  The Micex trades at 5.5 times  estimated earnings . That
compares with a multiple of 10 times for the MSCI Emerging
Markets Index, which has added 14 percent.  Russian equities have the lowest valuations based on
estimated earnings among 21  emerging markets  tracked by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  