-- Russia Faces Economy Trap as Oil Decline Looms, EBRD Says
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2012-12-14T06:46:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/russia-at-risk-from-dwindling-oil-reserves-european-bank-says.html
Russia , the world’s largest energy
exporter, is becoming increasingly dependent on commodities and
failing to prepare for falling oil output in 20 years, the
European Bank for Reconstruction & Development said.  Corruption, poor education, immigration barriers and state
dominance in the economy, which curbs private innovation, all
hinder diversification, which is Russia’s key challenge, the
London-based EBRD said in a report published today.  Oil and natural gas account for almost 70 percent of
exports and about half of budget revenue. The economy’s
dependence on energy is greater today than in the mid-1990s,
when it represented less than half of exports, according to the
EBRD. The non-commodity share of exports fell to as little as 8
percent in 2011 from 15 percent in 1997.  “If you look at all the talk, all the effort, over the
last 10 years, very little has happened and you can argue that
it has got worse,”  Erik Berglof , the EBRD’s chief economist,
said at a presentation today in Moscow. “Even Brezhnev talked
about the need to diversify,” he said, referring to Soviet
leader  Leonid Brezhnev , who led the  Soviet Union  from 1964 until
his death in 1982, a period characterized as an era of
stagnation that paved the way for the country’s 1991 collapse.  Price Swings  President  Vladimir Putin , who extended his 12-year rule
this year after enduring the biggest unrest since he came to
power, said in his annual state-of-the-nation address on Dec. 12
that Russia needs to reduce its vulnerability to sudden swings
in commodity prices.  Under current estimates, Russia’s known oil reserves,
including fields in the Arctic, are enough to sustain the
current rate of production for just 20 years, according to the
EBRD. Kazakhstan, by comparison, can sustain current output for
60 years,  Saudi Arabia  for more than 70 years and the  United
Arab Emirates  for more than 90 years, the EBRD said.  Russia’s government doesn’t publish its own estimate of oil
reserves, which are considered a state secret. The EBRD cited BP
Plc data in its calculations. Russian crude oil and condensate
production climbed to a post-Soviet record of 10.503 million
barrels a day in November, a post-Soviet high, according to
preliminary estimates from the Energy Ministry’s CDU-TEK unit.  ‘Petro-State’  “The problem of being a petro-state is that natural
resource trends corrupt the institutions,” Sergei Guriev,
rector of the New Economic School in Moscow and a government
adviser who contributed to the EBRD report, said in an
interview. “This is what is called the resource curse. This is
a trap, where democratic political and economic institutions do
not develop because rents coming from natural resources provide
incentives to the elite not to develop institutions.”  Russia’s economy grew at 7 percent a year on average during
Putin’s 2000-2008 presidencies then contracted almost 8 percent
in 2009 after crude prices plunged to $34 a barrel from $147.
The current resource-based economy can’t deliver the growth rate
of 5 percent to 6 percent that Russia needs over the next few
decades, Putin said in his Dec. 12 address.  ‘Non-State Capitalism’  Russia is facing a fourth-straight quarter of slowing
growth as weakening demand from  China  and  Europe  hurts exports
and a surge in inflation saps consumer purchasing power. Gross
domestic product will advance 3.5 percent in 2012, according to
the government, slowing from last year’s 4.3 percent expansion.
GDP will expand 3.5 percent next year, according to the median
estimates of 35 economists in a Bloomberg survey last month.  “A real change in the structure of the economy, the
creation of new industrial sectors and the restoration of our
leadership in traditional ones, the development of small and
medium-sized businesses -- these are key issues,” Putin said.
“I am sure that at the center of the new economic model should
be economic freedom, private property and non-state
capitalism.”  Russian’s investment in promoting high-tech industries --
with public money accounting for 75 percent of research and
development funding -- has yielded only limited results, the
EBRD said.  ‘Vicious Circle’  While China and  India  have both “dramatically” increased
the percentage of exports of goods and services accounted for by
information and communications technology, Russia still has
barely 20 percent of manufacturing exports with a high skill
content, the bank said.  A survey carried out by the EBRD and the  World Bank  in
2011-2012 in 37 of Russia’s 83 regions found that most of the
4,000 manufacturing and services companies that took part saw
corruption, skilled-labor shortages and a lack of funding as the
main obstacles to doing business. Only 3 percent of Russian
companies exported in 2008-2009, compared with 15 percent to 17
percent in France and the U.S.  “Non-resource sectors need property-rights protection,
courts and good financial markets,” said Guriev. “All of those
require good political institutions and so it’s a vicious
circle.”  State-owned companies account for about half of Russia’s
economic output, or $1.14 trillion, according to BNP Paribas
SA’s Moscow unit. That’s up from about 42 percent in 2008 and 38
percent in 2006 and doesn’t take into account state-run OAO
Rosneft’s acquisition of TNK-BP, BP’s venture with a group of
billionaires, BNP said in an Oct. 22 research note.  The EBRD, owned by 63 countries and two intergovernmental
institutions, was created in 1991 to invest in former communist
countries and help them transform their economies. It’s
expanding its scope to promoting market economies in North
Africa, the  Middle East  and  Turkey .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net 
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  