-- Russia May Start Rate Cuts in March, VTB Capital Says
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2012-12-14T07:52:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/russia-may-start-rate-easing-cycle-in-march-vtb-capital-says.html
(Corrects to show time period of forecast in third
paragraph of story published yesterday.)  Russia ’s central bank may begin
lowering  interest rates  next spring, a move that will accelerate
economic growth in the second half of 2013, VTB Capital said.  An easing cycle of rate cuts and medium-term refinancing
for the banking industry may begin in March or April, according
to VTB Capital’s chief economist for Russia, Maxim Oreshkin, who
correctly predicted a quarter-point reduction in the cost of
swapping foreign currency into rubles and an increase of that
amount in the deposit rate at the central bank’s last meeting
Dec. 10.  “ Monetary policy  will be one of the factors driving faster
economic growth in the second half of 2013,” Oreshkin told
reporters today in Moscow. “The main risk is that the
authorities become dissatisfied with the slow pace of growth,”
which may prompt them to “ask for excessive monetary easing
that will push inflation out of control” in 2014.  Russia needs economic growth of 5 percent to 6 percent or
more every year for the next decade, President  Vladimir Putin 
said yesterday in his first state-of-the-nation address since
returning to the Kremlin in May. With  oil prices  averaging $95 a
barrel, gross domestic product will rise by 2 percent to 2.2
percent in 2013, helping the central bank keep inflation within
its 5 percent to 6 percent target, according to VTB Capital.  Three-month borrowing costs may fall 33 basis points, or
0.33 percentage point, in the next three months, according to
forward-rate agreements tracked by Bloomberg. The cost to fix
floating interest payments in rubles for a year using rate swaps
is 7.34 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  