-- Rutgers Bans Basketball Coach Rice for Three Games Over Language
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-12-13T19:52:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/rutgers-bans-basketball-coach-rice-for-three-games-over-language.html
Rutgers University men’s basketball
coach Mike Rice was suspended for three games without pay and
fined $50,000 for what the school described as “inappropriate
behavior and language.”  The penalty stemmed from a violation of the school’s
athletic department policy rather than National Collegiate
Athletic Association rules,  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based
Rutgers  said on its website .  It didn’t give details of the coach’s actions.  “Accountability is a vital element of the Rutgers
athletics family and it is imperative our head coaches act and
lead in a responsible manner,” Tim Pernetti, the school’s
athletic director, said in a statement. “This was not an easy
decision for me to make but absolutely necessary to ensure what
is best for our program.”  Associate head coach David Cox will lead the 7-2 team for
its next three contests, all home games, against Alabama-
Birmingham, Howard and Rider. Rice would return for the Scarlet
Knights’ Big East Conference opener at Syracuse on Jan. 2.  “Since becoming a coach at the age of 21, I have taken
great pride in not only helping young men learn the game of
basketball but also in teaching them about character, respect
and hard work,” Rice, 43, said in a statement. “To the extent
that my conduct has ever been in contrast with those principles,
I have failed my players -- and myself -- and I take full
responsibility for my actions and accept the terms of my
suspension.”  Rice is in his third season at Rutgers after three years as
the coach of Robert Morris. The Scarlet Knights went 15-17 in
2010-11 and 14-18 last season.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net 
26542Z US <Equity> CN 