-- Ryanair Loses U.K. Appeal to Block Probe of Aer Lingus Stake
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n   a n d   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-12-13T11:53:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/ryanair-loses-u-k-appeal-to-block-probe-of-aer-lingus-stake.html
Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  lost an appeal
to block a U.K. probe into its 30 percent stake in  Aer Lingus
Group Plc (AERL)  over claims it conflicts with a separate European
Union review of plans to take over its Irish competitor.  The investigation into the minority stake by the U.K.
Competition Commission doesn’t overlap the EU’s parallel review
of Ryanair’s bid in June to purchase Aer Lingus for 694 million
euros ($906 million), the Court of Appeal ruled today in London.
The judgment affirms an antitrust tribunal’s ruling in August.  “Only the U.K. has jurisdiction in respect of Ryanair’s
minority shareholding,” Judge Terence Etherton said in the
ruling. The probe isn’t a breach of the U.K.’s legal duty to
cooperate with European regulators.  Ryanair has been fighting with regulators since acquiring
the Aer Lingus shares in 2006 as part of an earlier takeover bid
that the 27-nation EU ultimately blocked on competition grounds.
The European Commission issued formal objections last month to
Ryanair’s new takeover bid, setting out possible competition
concerns over the Dublin-based carriers combining.  Ryanair plans to “immediately” refer today’s ruling to
the U.K. Supreme Court for review, the airline said in an e-
mailed statement.  Rory Taylor, a spokesman for the London-based Competition
Commission, said the agency is pleased with the ruling.  Key Milestone  Colm Barrington, chairman of Aer Lingus, said in an e-
mailed statement that the ruling “is a key milestone on the
path toward Ryanair being required to divest its shareholding in
Aer Lingus.”  Britain’s Competition Appeal Tribunal ruled in August that
the commission in Brussels has no jurisdiction over the minority
shareholding, making it proper for British regulators to
investigate.  The two airlines carry more than 80 percent of the 370,000
passengers that travel between the U.K. and Ireland each month,
regulators have said.  The minority stake gives Ryanair the ability to weaken Aer
Lingus as a competitor and stifle investments from other
airlines, the Office of Fair Trading, the U.K. regulator that
referred the issue to the Competition Commission, said June 15.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Larson in  London  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net ;
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  