-- S&P Cuts U.K. Outlook to Negative on Risks From Weak Economy
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-12-13T18:26:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/s-p-cuts-u-k-outlook-to-negative-on-risks-from-weak-economy-1-.html
Standard & Poor’s  lowered its
outlook on Britain’s top credit rating to negative, citing weak
economic growth and a worsening debt profile.  The outlook on the AAA grade, revised from stable, means
there is a one-in-three chance that S&P could cut the rating in
the next two years, it said in a statement in  London  today. This
could happen if the U.K.’s economic and fiscal performance
“weaken beyond our current expectations,” it said.  “We expect economic growth to accelerate slowly, but the
risks to our growth assumptions are weighted to the downside
however, with associated risks to government finances,” the
ratings company said.  The revision increases political pressure on Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne , who has promised investors he
would stick to plans for the biggest fiscal squeeze since World
War II even as the economic recovery struggles to gain traction.
Still, investors often ignore such actions, evidenced by the
drop in French 10-year bond yields following a downgrade last
month and a rally in Treasuries after the U.S. lost its top
rating at S&P in 2011.  S&P forecast today that Britain’s ratio of debt to gross
domestic product will continue to rise in 2015 and peak that
year at 92 percent. It sees a risk it could approach 100 percent
if the economic recovery is weaker than currently projected.  ‘Downside Risk’  The pound extended its decline against the dollar after the
S&P announcement. It was trading at $1.6105 as of 5:49 p.m. in
London, down 0.3 percent on the day. It weakened 0.3 percent to
81.20 pence per euro.  “Over the next couple of days there will be some downside
risk for the pound,” said  Ned Rumpeltin , head of Group of 10
currency strategy at Standard Chartered Group Plc in London.
“It is not necessarily a very large nail in the pound’s coffin.
Even with the potential for a downgrade, sterling still has a
credit-rating advantage over many other countries.”  Osborne said in his autumn statement on Dec. 5 that he’s no
longer likely to meet his target to begin cutting the burden of
government debt in 2015-16 after his fiscal watchdog cut its
growth forecasts.  Fitch Ratings  said that day that missing the
debt target “weakens the credibility of the U.K.’s fiscal
framework.” It will conduct a further formal review of the
rating in 2013 incorporating the budget, due in March.  Fitch and Moody’s Investors Service already have the U.K.
on a negative outlook.  ‘Ultimate Test’  “The U.K. has suffered persistent slippage since mid-2010
so the odds are skewed towards a downgrade,” said  Alan Clarke ,
an economist at Scotiabank  Europe  Plc in London. In 2013, “the
U.K. is already facing an uphill battle.”  Speaking to lawmakers earlier today, Osborne played down
the importance of Britain’s rating, saying it is only one gauge
of the economy’s health.  “The ultimate test is what you can borrow money at,” he
said. “The test we have is one we have to meet every week when
we go and try and sell our gilts.”  In a statement, the U.K. Treasury said S&P endorsed the
government’s “strong commitment” to its fiscal plans.  “It is because we have stuck to that commitment that the
deficit is down by a quarter and interest rates are at record
lows,” it said. The yield on the 10-year gilt is at 1.86
percent, about a third of the rate on equivalent Spanish debt.  About half the time, government bond yields fall when a
rating action suggests they should climb, or they increase even
as a change signals a decline, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg in June on 314 upgrades, downgrades and outlook
changes going back to 1974.  Britain also has a top rating at Moody’s with a negative
outlook. Moody’s lowered its outlook on the U.K. grade on Feb.
13, as it cut the ratings of other European countries including
Italy and  Spain , citing the euro-region debt crisis. Fitch
lowered its outlook to negative from stable on March 14, days
before Osborne presented his annual budget, citing the weak
recovery, high debt, and threats from Europe.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  