-- Schaeuble Says Opposition-Led States Blocked Workers’ Tax Relief
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   J o s e p h   d e   W e c k
-- 2012-12-13T00:42:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/schaeuble-says-opposition-led-states-blocked-workers-tax-relief.html
Germany ’s upper house of parliament,
where parties that are in opposition at national level hold a
majority, blocked the government’s attempt to grant tax relief
to low- and medium-income earners, Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said.  The upper house, controlled by the Social Democrats and the
Green party, blocked a bill that would have eased cold
progression, or jumps in income tax that apply when employees
move up income brackets, Schaeuble said late yesterday in an e-
mailed statement. The chamber backed an increase in the tax-free
allowance for 2013 and 2014, he said.  “The blockade on cold progression means tax increases
through the back door for many workers in Germany next year,”
Schaeuble said. “It’s pleasing that we were able at least to
adjust the basic allowance, but this was required by the
constitution anyway.”  The rejection of the tax bill and a proposed accord with
 Switzerland  over undeclared bank accounts shows Chancellor
 Angela Merkel ’s troubles in getting bills approved by the upper
house, the Bundesrat, as legislative elections approach next
autumn.  The agreement with Switzerland would have imposed a
withholding tax on Swiss bank accounts and helped to end German
authorities’ practice of buying stolen Swiss bank data to
identify tax evaders. Swiss banks are fighting to stem
withdrawals by customers concerned about a widening hunt for tax
dodgers.  The opposition’s refusal to back the deal “will lead to
federal, state and local tax revenue losses of double-digit
billion-euro amounts,” Schaeuble said. “A large part of German
tax claims related to the past will be forever lost.”  The German government planned for 499 million euros ($652
million) in revenue from the Swiss tax accord for the 2013
 federal budget , according to German Finance Ministry spokeswoman
Silke Bruns.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Brussels at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph de Weck in Berlin at 
 jdeweck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  