-- Senate Won’t Consider Stand-Alone AMT Fix, Reid Says
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-12-13T18:59:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/senate-won-t-consider-stand-alone-amt-fix-reid-says.html
The Senate won’t consider a small-
scale bill to avoid an expansion of the alternative minimum tax
or a cut in Medicare reimbursements to physicians if no broader
budget deal is reached, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid said.  Reid, a Nevada Democrat, said today the Senate won’t
address any tax or spending provisions that expire at year’s end
unless Republicans agree to let tax rates rise for the top 2
percent of earners, as Democrats are demanding.  “As long as they do something on rates, I am happy to talk
to them about anything,” Reid said in an interview. Pressed on
whether he would refuse to move a smaller scale bill if
Republicans won’t budge on rates, Reid said, “That’s right.”  President  Barack Obama  and House Speaker John Boehner are
at an impasse in talks over how to avert more than $600 billion
in spending cuts and tax increases, the so-called fiscal cliff,
scheduled to start taking effect in January. Obama and
congressional Democrats have said they won’t discuss spending
cuts unless Republicans agree to higher tax rates for top
earners.  Obama, walking across Pennsylvania Avenue to Blair House
today for a holiday party, waved and said the budget talks were
“still a work in progress” when asked whether he thought there
would be a deal by Christmas.  ‘Not Serious’  Also today, Boehner repeated his insistence that Obama’s
budget proposal is “anything but” balanced, and accused the
president of being “not serious” about cutting spending.  Still, the speaker today didn’t rule out allowing a House
vote on extending tax cuts for income up to $250,000 a year for
married couples, as Obama has demanded, if a broader tax-and-
spending deal isn’t reached soon.  “The law of the land today is that everyone’s income taxes
are going to go up on Jan. 1,” Boehner said when asked by
reporters if he would rule out such a vote. “I have made it
clear I think that is unacceptable. Until we get this issue
resolved, that risk remains.”  Reid said earlier today he is “really mystified that we
haven’t had significant movement from the Republicans” in the
talks. He said Obama has indicated he would agree to “take some
looks” at spending cuts once Republicans agree on higher tax
rates for top earners.  Deeper Cuts  House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, a California Democrat,
said that talk of deeper spending cuts demanded by Republicans
should await discussions on a tax overhaul next year.  “Don’t even think about using” an increase in the
Medicare eligibility age to reduce spending, Pelosi said.
Democrats won’t throw “America’s seniors over the cliff to give
a tax cut to the wealthiest in America,” she said.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index snapped a six-day gain,
falling 0.6 percent to 1,420.38 at 12:40 p.m.  New York  time. The
Dow Jones Industrial Average dropped 59.48 points, or 0.5
percent, to 13,185.97. Yields on the benchmark 10-year Treasury
note rose two basis points to 1.72 percent.  Obama this week reduced his demand for new tax revenue to
$1.4 trillion from $1.6 trillion. Boehner said the plan wouldn’t
pass the Republican-controlled House.  The alternative minimum tax, a parallel tax system created
to ensure that wealthy individuals couldn’t avoid all taxes, is
scheduled to affect about 28 additional million households for
tax year 2012, up from about 4 million otherwise.  Tax Filing  Without legislation to prevent that, the Internal Revenue
Service has said it would delay tax filing scheduled to start in
January until at least late March for more than 60 million
filers. Action isn’t required, though inaction would cost
taxpayers $92 billion in early 2013, according to the
nonpartisan Joint Committee on Taxation.  “AMT is obviously something that needs to be taken care
of, because it’s going to affect millions of Americans,” said
Representative Tom Reed, a New York Republican on the House Ways
and Means Committee. “There’s significant policy that needs to
be attended to, and I hope, sooner than later, that we get to
those issues.”  If Congress doesn’t act by Jan. 1, Medicare payments to
physicians will drop by 26.5 percent. Lawmakers regularly act to
prevent the cut or restore it retroactively in what has become
known as the “doc fix.”  Senator Richard Durbin of  Illinois , the chamber’s second-
ranking Democrat, told reporters that Democratic leaders met
today with doctors who were concerned about the cut in
reimbursement rates.  Exploring Alternatives  Representative Dave Camp, chairman of the House Ways and
Means Committee, said today in an interview that he was
continuing to explore alternatives, noting that Congress is
running out of time to address the AMT and physician
reimbursement rates.  “Many of us were looking at the possibility of a larger
package, and it doesn’t look like that’s coming together,” said
Camp, a Michigan Republican who is part of Boehner’s negotiating
team. “I think those others, it’s uncertain how they’re going
to be addressed.”  House Majority Leader Eric Cantor, a Virginia Republican,
said the House next week will consider several “expiring
provisions” without offering details.  Cantor was referring to the possibility the House could
extend current farm programs and take up legislation to prevent
a drop in physician reimbursements from Medicare, said three
Republican leadership aides who weren’t authorized to speak
publicly.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  