-- Serbia Seen Raising Rate Further to Bring Down 2013 Inflation
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-12-13T12:55:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/serbia-seen-raising-rate-further-to-bring-down-2013-inflation.html
Serbia ’s central bank will probably
raise its  benchmark  interest rate  for the sixth time since June
as it battles stubbornly high inflation.  The Belgrade-based Narodna Banka Srbije will lift its one-
week repurchase rate tomorrow by as much as 55 basis points
according to 19 of 24 economists in a Bloomberg  survey . Five
expect no change in borrowing costs.  “Inflation will remain high next year, certainly above
target because regulated prices will rise after being kept on
hold this year,” said Ljiljana Grubic, a Belgrade-based analyst
with Raiffeisenbank AD.  Serbian rate-setters are trying to damp inflation, which
accelerated to 12.9 percent in October. That contrasts with
other monetary authorities in eastern  Europe , who are following
central banks in the U.S. and U.K. with cuts to halt an economic
slowdown as Europe fights a sovereign-debt crisis.  The National Bank of Serbia, which has raised its
repurchase rate by a total of 145 basis points, or 1.45
percentage points, since June to 10.95 percent, has repeatedly
cited elevated inflationary expectations, along with higher-
than-expected growth in food and administered prices.  Target Band  The November inflation reading “resulted from a low base
last year” and a “decline in the annual inflation rate is
expected as of the second quarter of next year, with a return to
the target band by the end of 2013,” according to a statement
posted on the central bank’s website yesterday. The central bank
 targets  inflation of 4 percent, plus or minus 1.5 percentage
points, through 2014.  Inflation in Serbia has been quickening since April, when
it was at a 30-year low of 2.7 percent, led higher by rising
food prices following a decline in domestic agricultural output.  The central bank’s problem is that inflation “isn’t
monetary by nature,” said Jasna Atanasijevic, chief economist
at the Belgrade-based Hypo Alpe Adria Banka AD. Price growth has
been triggered by increases in the sales tax and excise duties,
or from higher costs of items such as heating and
transportation, she said.  Monetary Character  “There is nothing to point to a monetary character of
inflation because private consumption is not rising,” she said.  The central bank could take advantage of a stable dinar,
declining yields on government debt, or liquidity from sales of
Eurobonds in September and November, as well as weak economic
activity to leave rates unchanged, Grubic and Atanasijevic said.
The central bank forecasts the economy to contract 2 percent
this year before rebounding in 2013 on export growth, led by
higher car and crude oil product sales abroad.  The central bank has repeatedly said that the pace and
scope of cuts, as well as its policy bias depend on fiscal
policies. The government plans to narrow the fiscal gap to 3.6
percent of economic output in 2013 from 6.7 percent this year
and balance the budget by 2016.  Prime Minister  Ivica Dacic , whose Cabinet took office in
July, needs to convince the  International Monetary Fund  it is
able to meet the budgeted fiscal targets and meet the lender
next spring for a second round of talks on a new loan program.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  