-- Slovak Lawmakers Pass Budget as Economy Outlook Remains Risky
-- B y   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k
-- 2012-12-13T10:19:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/slovak-lawmakers-pass-budget-as-economy-outlook-remains-risky.html
Slovak lawmakers backed the 2013
budget that hinges on one of the fastest economic growth rates
in the euro area to meet a commitment to trim the fiscal gap to
below the European Union limit.  The spending plan, approved in a 82-64 vote today, targets
a  deficit  of 2.94 percent of gross domestic product, below the
EU’s 3 percent ceiling. Lawmakers in Slovak capital Bratislava
voted on a reworked version of the budget compared with a
document originally submitted by Prime Minister Robert Fico’s
Cabinet, which has incorporated an increasingly worsening
outlook for tax collection.  The budget is based on an assumption of economic  growth 
slowing to 2.1 percent from 2.5 percent expected this year. The
projected pace, 0.1 percentage point quicker than the European
Commission’s estimate, still makes Slovakia one of the fastest-
growing nations in the euro-region, which as a whole is set to
advance 0.1 percent in 2013.  Slovakia, a euro-area member since 2009, is striving to
improve its public finances to prevent contagion from the bloc’s
sovereign-debt crisis even as the slowing economy is reducing
tax receipts. The reworked budget, which assumes dissolution of
a reserve previously considered to cover an unexpected shortfall
in revenue, remains prone to western  Europe ’s economy, Finance
Minister Peter Kazimir said during the debate.  The government of the euro-area’s second-poorest country
has focused on tax increases for the best earners and companies
as well as a pension overhaul to narrow the fiscal gap. Fico has
refrained from raising value-added tax, in line with his pledge
to minimize the impact of austerity measures.  Slovakia last managed to keep budget gap below the EU’s
ceiling in 2008 as it was preparing to adopt the euro next year.
The projected deficit compares with a planned shortfall of 4.6
percent of GDP this year, which Kazimir has said may be
“slightly” overshot.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Radoslav Tomek in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  