-- SocGen to Sell Egypt Unit to Qatar’s QNB for $1.97 Billion
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2012-12-13T13:02:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/socgen-to-sell-egypt-unit-to-qatar-s-qnb-for-1-97-billion-1-.html
Societe Generale SA (GLE) ,  France ’s
second-largest bank by market value, agreed to sell a majority
stake in its Egyptian unit to  Qatar National Bank SAQ (QNBK)  for $1.97
billion as it shores up capital amid the  European debt crisis .  The sale of the 77.2 percent stake in  National Societe
Generale Bank SAE (NSGB)  will probably close in the first half of next
year and give Paris-based SocGen, as the bank is known, a net
gain of about 350 million euros ($458 million), it said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday. QNB will also acquire stakes not
already owned by NSGB in some of its local subsidiaries.  “This should unlock value for QNB, as the market does not
value QNB’s surplus capital base whatsoever, while it also
supports our very positive view on  Egypt ,”  Jaap Meijer , a
director at Arqaam Capital Ltd. in Dubai, said today by e-mail.  Qatar National Bank said in April it had a five-year plan
to make itself an “icon” in the Middle East and  Africa  by
expansion and “diversifying income sources.” The lender is
expanding overseas amid limited growth opportunities at home.  Including the value of the stakes in some of its local
subsidiaries, Société Générale will receive as much as $2
billion, helping boost the Paris-based lender’s core Tier 1
capital by about 30 basis points at the end of 2013. The sale
values NSGB at $2.56 billion, or twice its book value at the end
of September.  Commercial International Bank Egypt SAE (COMI) , Egypt’s
biggest publicly traded lender, trades at 1.97 times book value,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Shares Drop  NSGB shares plunged 10 percent to close at 35.42 Egyptian
pounds in Cairo today, valuing the lender at 15.7 billion pounds
($2.6 billion). The shares have gained 92 percent this year,
helped by news of QNB’s interest. The purchase price translates
to 35.54 pounds a share, according to Arqaam Capital.  QNB rose 0.9 percent, the most in more than two months, to
close at 131.4 riyals in Doha today, while Société Générale was
down 0.1 percent at 29.485 euros at 1:06 p.m. in Paris.  SocGen has been eliminating jobs and selling assets as
rising capital requirements and  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis
squeeze profit. The bank booked a 130 million-euro loss after
 agreeing to sell  its Greek unit this year for 1 million euros,
and took a loss of 92 million euros on the sale of Los Angeles-
based asset-management unit TCW Group Inc.  The bank has a goal of reaching a core Tier 1 capital ratio
under Basel III standards of 9 percent to 9.5 percent by the end
of 2013 by retaining earnings and reducing assets.  Profit  Doha-based QNB, the biggest lender in the six-nation Gulf
Cooperation Council by assets, missed out to OAO Sberbank in its
bid to buy Dexia SA’s Turkish unit  Denizbank AS (DENIZ) , a deal priced
at 1.33 times book value. QNB’s third-quarter profit rose 11
percent to 2.11 billion riyals ($580 million) on higher lending.  The buyout is QNB’s biggest in its 48-year history and
helps expand its network to almost 25 countries in the  Middle
East  and North Africa region. In August, it more than doubled
its stake in Dubai-based  Commercial Bank International PSC (CBI)  to
39.9 percent in a deal worth about $75 million.  The NSGB acquisition is part of QNB’s strategy “to
diversify revenue sources,” QNB Group Chief Executive Officer
Ali Shareef Al-Emadi, said in a statement. “The Egyptian
financial sector represents a significant growth opportunity
with its combination of growth potential, increased future
penetration of banking services, young and dynamic population.”  NSGB is Egypt’s second-biggest privately owned lender and
has a network of about 160 branches, assets of 63.3 billion
pounds and loans of 36.1 billion pounds at the end of September.  Own Cash  QNB intends to fund the purchase through its own cash and
will remain strongly capitalized after the acquisition with a
core tier 1 capital ratio of around 15 percent, the lender said
in the statement. The transaction is expected to immediately add
to earnings in 2013. NSGB will represent 8 percent of the
group’s loans and 10 percent of deposits.  QNB wants a presence in  Turkey  and  Morocco  by 2017 and will
consider acquisitions in these markets over the next three
years, Mohamad Moabi, assistant general manager for group
strategy said in a conference call today. It has also submitted
an application to open a branch in  Saudi Arabia , he said.  The lender will aim to buy a majority stake in a top-10
bank in Turkey, Ramzi Mari, group chief financial officer said
on the call. The bank is satisfied with NSGB’s management in
Egypt and will not make any changes there, he said.  Egypt’s appeal to overseas investors has improved since the
nation swore in a new president in June. Economic growth in the
most populous Arab nation, home to about 82 million people,
dropped to a 19-year low of 1.8 percent in 2011 after a popular
uprising toppled Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak . Growth will
accelerate to 2 percent this year, according to the median
estimate of 10 economists compiled by Bloomberg.  BNP Paribas Exit  HSBC Holdings Plc, Europe’s biggest bank, is among lenders
that is seeking to expand its consumer lending and wealth
management business in the country to take advantage of a young
population, the country’s high savings rate and low borrowings
relative to other nations in the region, it said in October.  BNP
Paribas SA (BNP) , France’s biggest bank, is also seeking to cut assets
in Egypt and aims to raise $400 million by selling its retail
banking division there, Le Monde reported Aug. 15.  QNB will make a mandatory tender for all of NSGB’s shares
after obtaining regulatory approvals, according to the
statement. QNB Capital and JPMorgan Chase & Co. were QNB’s
financial advisors, while Clifford Chance LLP and Zaki Hashem &
Partners acted as its legal counsel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  