-- Spice Girls Musical Lacks Pep; Soldiers Romp: U.K. Stage
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2012-12-13T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/spice-girls-musical-lacks-pep-soldiers-romp-u-k-stage.html
Where there’s an immortal back
catalog, a jukebox musical will follow.  Think of The Beatles, Abba, Queen, The Four Seasons. Then
think of The Spice Girls. “Immortal” isn’t the first word that
springs to mind.  The new London musical “ Viva Forever ,” based on the
1990’s barrel-scrapings of Posh, Baby, Ginger, Scary and Sporty,
was never going to win hearts and minds with its deathless hits.
The only guaranteed memory-claw in the whole package is the song
“Wannabe” with its catchy refrain “I’ll tell you what I want,
what I really, really want.”  What was really, really wanted was a gloriously cheesy plot
to hold it all together. Instead scriptwriter Jennifer Saunders
(“Absolutely Fabulous”) recycles characters from her old
sitcoms. Then she throws in some toothless satire about TV
talent shows.  Here’s how it goes. Young Viva (Hannah John-Kamen) lives on
a houseboat with her feckless adopted mother Lauren (Sally Ann
Triplett) and Lauren’s skinny libidinous friend Suzi (Lucy
Montgomery).  Lauren and Suzi drink, horse about, and flirt
inappropriately with hunky young rowers on the towpath. Sound
familiar? It’s as if Eddie and Patsy from “Ab Fab” have risen
wrinkled from a long pickling in brine.  Girl Band  Viva joins a girl band, and the four songbirds swear
eternal fidelity to each other. When they get on a TV talent
show, they meet the bitchy, shallow, glamorous ice-queen judge
Simone (Sally Dexter), who immediately splits the band up and
chooses Viva to be a soloist.  Simone is a rehash of Vivienne Vyle, another of Saunders’
former sitcom monsters, and about as dramatically successful.  None of the dramatic elements here is successful, in fact.
Viva’s conflict between fame and friendship lacks clarity of
focus. The other three members of Viva’s band are barely seen in
the second act, so their climactic appearance for the girl-power
finale (yes, she chooses friendship) lacks any sort of impact.  It’s what’s known in the business as “unearned emotion.”  Love Interest  Then there’s a mismanaged bit of padding about Viva’s
biological mother and a tacked-on love interest in the form of a
sententious stud called Angel (Ben Cura, who only gets to sing
half of one duet.)  Paul Garrington’s staging is lively enough, and the numbers
go with as much swing as can be injected. The set rotates
between Viva’s houseboat and the television talent show with
elegant ease. The performances are all watchable, and Sally
Dexter does an enjoyable Cruella de Vil turn as the low-rent
villainess Simone.  With a botched book, forgettable songs, and lame jokes,
those pluses are not enough.  Viva forever? I wouldn’t bet on it. Rating: **  Frocks, Farce  Director and producer  Michael Grandage  opens his new five-
play season at the Noel Coward Theatre on a high. His production
of the satirical farce “ Privates on Parade ” (1977), starring
Simon Russell Beale on terrific form, is a sharp and amusing
piece of work.  Peter Nichols’ musical play is set among a troupe of
British military entertainers working in southeast  Asia  in 1948.
 China  is fomenting unrest, their commanding officer treats them
like cattle, and the British Empire is crumbling.  No matter. They don their outrageous frocks and perform
numbers in the style of Marlene Dietrich and Carmen Miranda.  The mix of geographical, military and sexual politics
(three of the soldiers are openly gay, one flamboyantly so)
makes for a thought-provoking evening. The questions about
masculinity and war which it raises feel as relevant now as they
did 35 years ago.  Grandage’s triumph is to make the show as funny and
entertaining as it is chilling  Faltering Tension  Once or twice the dramatic tension falters when Nichols’
writing becomes repetitious, and the monologues delivered
straight to audience tend to lower the temperature too.  Things quickly pick up. The final sequence, in which the
performers are led as decoys into hostile territory, is gripping
and disturbing.  There’s not a dud member of the cast, and Christopher
Oram’s set -- a crumbling concrete proscenium arch holding huge
corrugated iron doors -- serves beautifully for all the
locations. If the rest of Grandage’s season continues like this,
we’re in for a treat. Rating: ****  “Viva Forever” is at the Piccadilly Theatre.
 http://www.vivaforeverthemusical.com  or +44-844-871-7627  “Privates on Parade” is at the Noel Coward Theatre.
 http://www.michaelgrandagecompany.com  or +44-844-482-5140  What The Stars Mean:
*****     Excellent
**** Recommended
***          Average
**          Poor
*          Bad
(No stars)Worthless  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars and  Rich Jaroslovsky  on tech.  To contact the writer of this review:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 