-- Springsteen, Gary Cohn, Clapton, Jagger, Joel: Scene
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-12-13T21:59:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/springsteen-gary-cohn-clapton-jagger-joel-scene.html
“If it rains in London, you’ve got
to come help us, OK?”  Mick Jagger  said as the Rolling Stones
performed at the 12-12-12 Concert for Sandy Relief to benefit
the Robin Hood Relief Fund last night.  Paul McCartney  was a little more focused on the U.S. side
of Anglo-American relations. “I love New York,” he said before
breaking into “Helter Skelter.”  The concert opened with images of the devastation wrought
by Hurricane Sandy in October: streets filled with water,
boardwalks destroyed, homes ripped apart.  And then the tunes:  Bruce Springsteen  was first, with
“Land of Hope and Dreams.”  Billy Joel  soothed with a little
Christmas music and “New York State of Mind.”  Eddie Vedder of Pearl Jam joined Roger Waters for  Pink Floyd ’s “Comfortably Numb.” Jon Bon Jovi traded lines with
Springsteen on “Born to Run.” Michael Stipe made a surprise
appearance to perform “Losing My Religion” with Coldplay’s
 Chris Martin . And in the final moments, after a fine
“Blackbird” by McCartney, the former Beatle got into some
grunge with former Nirvana member Dave Grohl.  The Stones, celebrating their 50th anniversary, started
with “You Got Me Rocking” and followed with “Jumpin’ Jack
Flash.” Jagger quipped at one point: “This must be the largest
collection of old English musicians ever to be assembled in
Madison Square Garden.” Besides his bandmates and Waters, he
could have been referring to  Eric Clapton , McCartney and Roger Daltrey and Pete Townshend of The Who.  Alicia Keys  On the younger side -- and a rare female performer -- was
Alicia Keys accompanying herself on piano and at one point
asking for the audience to hold up their glowing mobile phones
instead of the traditional cigarette lighter.  Lloyd Blankfein , chief executive of  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS) ,  Gary Cohn , Goldman Sachs president, Blair Effron, co-
founder of Centerview Partners LLC, and  David Einhorn  of
Greenlight Capital Inc. were in the audience at Madison Square
Garden with other Wall Street titans. (Cohn, Effron and Einhorn
all had cameos on the broadcast as cameras scanned the
audience.)  New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo  and New Jersey Governor
 Chris Christie  were also in the arena, where 15,500 tickets were
sold.  “Basically everyone is here,” Cohn wrote in an e-mail as
Springsteen slowed down the tempo and talked about Asbury Park
and other towns for “everyone, rich and poor” on the Jersey
Shore.  “I’m sure there will be a lot of difficult conversations
when rebuilding comes along, but I hope that characteristic
stays,” Springsteen said, before singing “My City of Ruins,”
with the chorus “C’mon, rise up.”  Beverly Hills  Chris Rock  joked, “We fixed everything; Jersey is fixed,
Staten Island -- It’s all like Beverly Hills right now.” Then
he introduced “the very humble  Kanye West ,” who wore a sports
hoody and what appeared to be a pleated black leather skirt and
opened with “Clique.”  Many celebrities -- including Ben Stiller, Susan Sarandon,
 Martha Stewart  and Jimmy Fallon -- worked telephones to accept
donations. Every dollar will go to the Relief Fund, with Robin
Hood Foundation board members and sponsors paying for the cost
of the concert.  Counting Costs  “It’s not as expensive as you’d think,” said John Sykes,
president of  CC Media Holdings Inc. (CCMO) , one of the concert
producers and a Robin Hood board member. The performers donated
their services, as did many vendors of Madison Square Garden,
said MSG Holdings Chief Executive James (Jim) Dolan, another
producer. Dolan estimated the work force at Madison Square
Garden numbered 2,000-3,000.  Beyond the midtown arena, television, radio and internet
broadcast potentially expanded the audience to as many as 2
billion, concert organizers said.  Before the concert started, $32 million had been raised,
Sykes said. President Barack Obama has requested $60.4 billion
from Congress. Repairing the New York transit system could cost
as much as $5 billion. Christie said New Jersey repair costs
would total more than $29 billion.  The Robin Hood fund will focus on immediate aid such as
clothing and shelter and on longer-range rebuilding needs for
people affected by the storm.  Dimon Rockin’  “We will do this correctly,” said David Saltzman, the
Robin Hood Foundation’s executive director. He also confirmed
that  Jamie Dimon , chairman of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , was in the
audience, “rockin’ to Kanye, rocking to The Who, rockin’ to the
Stones.”  Chase brought in about 100 employees who were affected by
Sandy, and Dimon spoke with them at a dinner reception before
the concert, according to Chase spokesman Erich Timmerman. There
was also a post-show reception, where the employees hung out
with some of the players from the New York Knicks and Chase
executives.  The idea for the concert came together days after the
hurricane hit. Film producer Harvey Weinstein, Dolan and Sykes
offered to co-produce a fundraiser similar to the one they had
put together after the Sept. 11 World Trade Center attacks.
Saltzman quickly accepted, and the three helped assemble top
music stars. The consumer division of JPMorgan Chase agreed to
become the concert’s presenting sponsor.  ‘Good People’  “We’ve seen the power of good people like Jim, Harvey and
John come together to help others, so I was absolutely ecstatic
that they were ready to do it again for our city,” Saltzman
said.  “Anytime you see a grassroots movement it is so
reassuring,” said Sarandon, who organized a ping pong
tournament for the people of Breezy Point that raised $19,000.
“It’s nice to feel unified with those people. We’re in such a
time of polarization, it’s great people can put all that aside
and see other human beings in need and pick up the phone.”  Donations were being accepted at 855-465-HELP (-4357) or
www.121212concert.org.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars, Lance Esplund
on  art .  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 