-- Susan Rice Withdraws as Candidate for Secretary of State
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-12-13T22:36:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/susan-rice-withdraws-as-candidate-for-secretary-of-state.html
Susan Rice withdrew her name from
consideration as President  Barack Obama ’s next secretary of
state, saying a battle over her confirmation would disrupt the
administration’s second-term agenda.  Obama accepted her decision while praising Rice, the U.S.
ambassador to the  United Nations , as “an extraordinarily
capable, patriotic, and passionate public servant.”  Rice had come under fire from some Republican senators over
statements she made about the deadly Sept. 11 attack on a U.S.
consulate in Benghazi,  Libya .  “I am now convinced that the confirmation process would be
lengthy, disruptive and costly -- to you and to our most
pressing national and international priorities,” Rice wrote in
a letter to Obama released by the White House. “That trade-off
is simply not worth it to our country.”  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  has said she plans to
leave as Obama begins his second term. With Rice’s withdrawal,
Massachusetts Senator  John Kerry , chairman of the Foreign
Relations Committee, is a leading contender for the post,
according to an administration official, who asked for anonymity
because no announcements have been made. A decision isn’t likely
to come this week, the official said.  Tommy Vietor, a spokesman for Obama’s National Security
Council, declined to say who the president intends to nominate
for the post or how soon he will act.  New Team  Obama will be reorganizing his national security team for
his second term. The president also will be looking to fill the
jobs of defense secretary and Central Intelligence Agency
director.  Former Republican Senator Chuck Hagel has emerged as the
leading candidate for the defense post, according to two people
familiar with the matter.  In her letter, Rice, 48, said she looked forward to
continuing to serve as UN ambassador. Obama also has considered
Rice to head the White House National Security Council, which is
currently led by Tom Donilon, and his statement on her
withdrawal said that she “has limitless capability to serve our
country now and in the years to come.”  Kerry, the 2004 Democratic nominee for president, praised
Rice in a statement.  “We should all be grateful that she will continue to serve
and contribute at the highest level,” he said.  Senate Fight  Cabinet nominations are subject to Senate confirmation, and
Rice had become a target of Republican Senators  John McCain  and
 Lindsey Graham  over statements she made after the attack on the
consulate that killed U.S. Ambassador Chris Stevens and three
other Americans. Graham had threatened to hold up Rice’s
confirmation if Obama nominated her.  If a confirmation fight developed, Obama would have had to
spend political capital, possibly weakening his hand as he moves
forward with budget negotiations and an agenda that includes
contentious issues such as immigration.  “The position of secretary of state should never be
politicized,” Rice wrote in her letter to Obama.  On Sunday interview shows on Sept. 16, she described the
assault as a spontaneous protest against an anti-Muslim video
that was “hijacked” by extremists, based on unclassified
talking points supplied by the U.S. intelligence community.  McCain and Graham were among the Republicans who accused
Rice of misleading the public.  “When it comes to Benghazi I am determined to find out
what happened -- before, during, and after the attack,” Graham,
of  South Carolina , said in a statement after Rice’s withdrawal.  Obama has defended Rice and in a Bloomberg News interview
Dec. 4 said it wouldn’t be a sign of weakness if he didn’t
nominate her in the face of Republican attacks.  “I don’t really spend a lot of time on, you know, what
folks say on cable news programs, attacking highly qualified
personnel like  Susan Rice ,” Obama said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  