-- Swiss Fund Moves, Swaps Rule Testimony, GDF: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-12-13T14:00:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/swiss-fund-moves-swaps-rule-testimony-gdf-compliance.html
Swiss hedge fund managers are
considering relocating to neighboring  Liechtenstein  to sidestep
tougher regulations being introduced in Switzerland and gain
access to the European Union, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP said.  About 47 percent of 92 firms surveyed, including managers
of hedge funds, private equity and real estate, would pick EU
member Liechtenstein over being supervised by the Bern-based
 Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority , PwC said. The move
would allow them earlier access to EU markets under a new
regulatory regime for alternative investment managers.  Switzerland has amended legislation to mirror the EU’s
 Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive , tightening risk,
compliance and auditing standards and increasing fund
transparency. Managers from countries that don’t pass equivalent
laws won’t be able to market to EU investors.  While the EU directive comes into force next year, more
than 400 Swiss alternative investment firms may have to wait
until at least 2015 before obtaining a “passport” to
participate in the EU market. Firms with managers in Switzerland
or offshore jurisdictions will get quicker access to the EU if
they relocate them to Liechtenstein rather than operate from
Switzerland, according to the report.  Almost three-quarters of firms surveyed said they selected
Switzerland for proximity to family and friends, while only 39
percent cited corporate taxes as an advantage. In the future,
regulatory conditions and the practices of the supervisory
authority will be the most important criteria, PwC said.  Compliance Policy  Dodd-Frank CFTC Swap Rules Opposed for Benefiting Futures  U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading Commission  rules were
opposed by congressional lawmakers and parts of the derivatives
industry for helping exchange-traded futures and threatening the
viability of over-the-counter swaps.  GFI Group Inc. (GFIG) , a New York-based interdealer broker, and a
coalition of trading platforms including one operated by
Bloomberg LP told a U.S. House Financial Services subcommittee
in testimony for a hearing yesterday that CFTC rules are hurting
the swaps market and encouraging a shift to futures. The
companies say futures face fewer customer protections and less
stringent margin rules.  In addition to GFI and Bloomberg, the Companies Supporting
Competitive Derivatives Markets group includes  Thomson Reuters
Corp. (TRI) ,  ICAP Plc (IAP)  and Tradeweb Markets LLC among others, according
to the testimony. Bloomberg LP is the parent company of
Bloomberg News.  The CFTC and Securities and Exchange Commission are
required under the Dodd-Frank Act to complete rules to increase
transparency in the swaps market by having trades conducted on
exchanges or other so-called swap execution facilities. The
agencies missed a July 2011 deadline to complete most of Dodd-
Frank regulations, and rules governing swaps-trading are
unfinished.  The agencies also faced questions about the international
reach of their rules after European and Asian regulators
criticized the CFTC’s cross-border guidelines. The CFTC needs to
“clarify and limit the scope of cross-border applicability,”
Samara Cohen, a  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  managing director, said
in  testimony  submitted to the panel.  CFTC Chairman Gary Gensler said  in written testimony  that
the cross-border reach of some rules is intended to protect
taxpayers from overseas risks returning to U.S. markets.  Separately, the SEC is preparing to release a rule on the
overseas reach of its regulation of some credit-default and
equity swaps. The SEC will conduct an economic analysis of its
rules, Robert Cook, the SEC’s director of the division of
trading and markets, said  in testimony.   For more, click here.  Company Insolvencies May Be Publicized Under EU Draft Rules  Creditors and distressed-asset investors may get more
insight from proposed European Union rules to publicize
information on company insolvencies.  Judges and creditors need to know when insolvency cases in
other countries begin to aid decisions on making claims, the
European Commission said in the proposal. There is currently no
EU requirement to publish decisions on the start of insolvency
proceedings and no joint register to search bankruptcies across
the 27-nation bloc.  The new EU rules, which need the support of EU governments
and the European Parliament before they can be enforced, would
clarify which country’s courts will handle cases and would
require coordinating insolvencies for company units. The EU said
the rules would increase the efficiency of cross-border
insolvency proceedings that affect 50,000 companies in the bloc
every year.  Courts in other countries would be also able to refuse so-
called secondary proceedings if another jurisdiction was
handling the case.  The EU also wants to offer bankrupt entrepreneurs a second
chance and is encouraging governments to draft laws by 2013 that
would result in so-called honest entrepreneurs having their
debts discharged within three years after a bankruptcy, it said.
Insolvency rules could distinguish between such cases and
“dishonest” bankruptcies, where a business failure was caused
by fraud or irresponsibility, regulators said.  U.S. Community Banks Weigh Fiscal-Cliff Plan for Deposit Program  Community bankers who expect the U.S. Senate to pass a bill
today that would extend a program intended to help them retain
deposits also believe they will have a tougher time getting the
measure though the House.  Facing strong opposition in that Republican-controlled
chamber, including from Majority Leader Eric Cantor of  Virginia 
and incoming Financial Services Committee Chairman Jeb
Hensarling of  Texas , supporters of the Transaction Account
Guarantee program may now try to add the extension to fiscal-
cliff legislation.  The TAG program guarantees $1.5 trillion in non-interest-
bearing accounts above the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.’s
general limit of $250,000. It was created in 2008 and extended
in 2010 to provide unlimited backing for the accounts to keep
them in community banks. Republicans have labeled TAG a bailout-
era program that shouldn’t be extended.  Small businesses, local governments and nonprofit
organizations use the transaction accounts for payroll and other
recurring expenses.  The FDIC said in a Dec. 4 report that community banks now
have sufficient liquidity to manage TAG’s expiration even if the
deposits it attracts do migrate to bigger institutions.  Cantor objects to the extension because the program was
supposed to be temporary, said his spokesman, Roy Cooper.
Majority Leader Harry Reid, a Nevada Democrat, is sponsoring the
extension bill in the Senate. He has described it as a “must-
do” before the end of the year.  For more, click here.  EU Reaches ECB Oversight Deal That May Speed Direct Bank Aid  European Union finance ministers agreed to put the European
Central Bank in charge of all euro-area lenders in a deal that
paves the way for the currency bloc’s firewall fund to provide
direct bailouts to banks.  The accord marks a step toward tightening integration of
the monetary union to stem the financial crisis that emerged in
 Greece  in 2009. The policy makers’ goal was to break a vicious
circle that undermined confidence in  Europe ’s banks. Issues such
as financing, bank resolution and deposit insurance remain,
Julian Callow, London-based chief international economist at
Barclays Plc, said today on Bloomberg Television.  The new supervisor should be ready by March 1, 2014, with
about 200 banks automatically qualifying for direct ECB
oversight, EU Financial Services Commissioner Michel Barnier
said at 4:30 a.m. today in Brussels after 14 hours of talks. In
the interim, the 500 billion-euro ($654 billion) European
Stability Mechanism could aid banks directly using its own
procedures and asking ECB supervisors to step in, he said.  EU leaders sought common bank oversight to rejuvenate their
crisis-management effort. The heads of state and government, who
gather in Brussels today for a regular summit, will be looking
beyond ECB supervision to other measures needed to break the
links between banking woes and sovereign-debt struggles, such as
who should pay to stabilize failing banks.  The legal framework for the new supervisor could be in
place by the end of February, allowing the ECB a full year to
prepare before taking on its new duties. Today’s agreement opens
the way for negotiations with the European Parliament. The
balance of ECB power has been a key obstacle for finance
ministers trying to reach a deal this month on a single
supervisor for banks, according to a Dec. 9 opinion from the ECB
and the European Commission.  Under today’s agreement, euro-area finance ministers could
use the European Stability Mechanism to recapitalize banks
directly if they make a unanimous request to the ECB to take
over direct oversight of a troubled institution..  For more, click here  Arrested Deutsche Bank Employees to Appear in Court Today  Five  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  employees arrested yesterday on
allegations of obstruction of justice and money laundering will
make their first court appearance today.  A judge at the Frankfurt local court will allow the
suspects to comment on the accusations, Guenter Wittig, a
spokesman for the Frankfurt General Prosecutor, said by phone.
He declined to identify them.  The case is part of a criminal probe over tax-evasion
allegations linked to the sale of carbon-emission certificates
in which prosecutors are investigating a total of 25 people at
Deutsche Bank. Overall, prosecutors are investigating about 190
people now, according to Wittig.  The lender’s German offices were raided yesterday. The
lender has said Co-Chief Executive Officer  Juergen Fitschen  and
Stefan Krause, the firm’s chief financial officer, are subjects
of a tax probe.  The probe has been pending for more than two years and led
to Europe-wide raids in 2010, including at the offices of
Deutsche Bank. People at the bank were warned beforehand of the
2010 raids.  Courts  GDF’s Electrabel Loses EU Court Appeal of Merger-Breach Fine  GDF Suez SA (GSZ) ’s Electrabel unit in  Belgium  lost a European
Union court appeal against a 20 million-euro ($26 million) fine
levied for taking over another company years before it sought
formal clearance for the deal.  The EU General Court, the bloc’s second-highest tribunal,
rejected the appeal by Electrabel in a ruling in Luxembourg
yesterday. The decision can be appealed.  The European Commission fined Electrabel in 2009 for
notifying the EU’s antitrust regulator more than four years
after it took control of French electricity generator Cie.
Nationale du Rhone in 2003. Electrabel notified the commission
of the deal in 2008 and it was cleared in April of that year.  Electrabel needs to study the verdict before commenting,
said Anne-Sophie Huge, a Brussels-based spokeswoman.  The Brussels-based commission yesterday said it welcomed
the ruling. The court “confirmed that such early implementation
constitutes a serious breach of EU merger control law,” the
commission said in an e-mailed statement.  The case is: T-332/09, Electrabel v. Commission.  SEC Says Madoff Customers Entitled to Interest on Cash Deposits  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission said con man
 Bernard Madoff ’s brokerage customers are entitled to interest
payments on cash they deposited in the Ponzi scheme, as
inflation adjustments “provide a more accurate calculation of
the real-dollar value of the customer’s net investment.”  While faulting the Madoff trustee and the Securities
Investor Protection Corp. that hired him for opposing interest
payments, the SEC said the court must weigh the costs and
benefits of the issue.  “Whether such an adjustment should be made in a given case
(or in this case) should be guided by a consideration of the
relative costs and benefits of doing so, including the impact of
administrative delay and additional cost to the bankruptcy
estate, as well as the economic impact on claimants and any
settled expectations they may have at the time of determination
of their claim,” the regulator said in a Dec. 10 filing in
federal court in  Manhattan .  Ex-Mizuho Banker Gets 32 Months for Leaking Tips to Girlfriends  Former Mizuho International Plc investment banker Thomas
Ammann was sentenced to 32 months in prison for passing inside
information about deals he was advising on to two women he was
dating.  Ammann, a 39-year-old German national who worked on the
Mizuho mergers and acquisitions team advising  Canon Inc. (7751)  on its
takeover of OCE NV, must serve half of the sentence, Judge
Anthony Leonard ruled today.  Jessica Mang and Christina Weckwerth were cleared of
trading on illegal tips from him after a London trial last
month. Ammann pleaded guilty earlier this year to insider
trading and encouraging both women to commit insider trading.  Mang and Weckwerth nearly doubled the amount they invested
then paid half their profits to Ammann, the U.K. Financial
Services Authority said prosecuting the case at a four-week
trial. Ammann tried to avoid getting caught by having his
girlfriends, who didn’t know the banker was dating them
simultaneously, make the trades, the FSA said.  Ammann has a young son with a Chinese woman who has now
left the country, leaving his elderly mother to care for the
child, Ammann’s lawyer Adrian Darbishire, said, asking the judge
for leniency.  Canon, the Tokyo-based maker of cameras and photocopiers,
agreed to buy OCE in a 730 million-euro ($952.7 million) deal in
November 2009.  Tiger Asia Pleads Guilty, Pays $60 Million in Insider Probe  Tiger Asia Management LLC, the New York-based hedge fund
run by Bill Hwang, pleaded guilty in an insider-trading case and
agreed to criminal and civil settlements totaling more than $60
million.  Hwang entered the plea yesterday in federal court in
 Newark , New Jersey, admitting Tiger Asia used material nonpublic
information by selling short shares of Bank of  China  Ltd. in
December 2008 and January 2009. Tiger Asia agreed to forfeit
$16.3 million to resolve the criminal case.  Tiger Asia Management, Hwang, Tiger Asia Partners LLC and
former head trader Raymond Y.H. Park agreed to pay $44 million
to settle a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission lawsuit
filed yesterday. Tiger Asia used inside information received
through private placement offerings to engage in short selling
of Bank of China and another bank, according to the SEC.  U.S. District Judge Stanley Chesler placed Tiger Asia on
probation for one year, and said the $16.3 million represents
the total illicit gain in the criminal case.  “Tiger Asia regrets the actions for which it accepts
responsibility today and is grateful that this matter is now
resolved and behind it in the U.S.,” Hwang said in a statement.
Hwang, 48, lives in Tenafly, New Jersey.  Tiger Asia’s attorney Lawrence Lustberg told Chesler
yesterday that the entire criminal forfeiture was paid that day.  “It reflects a just resolution of this matter,” Lustberg
told the judge. All investor capital has been returned, he said
in an interview.  For more, click here.  Interviews  Levitt Says Company Postings on Facebook Violate Regulations  Arthur Levitt, former chairman of the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, said the SEC’s Regulation Fair Disclosure,
known as Reg FD, is violated in principle when companies post
information on social media like Facebook. Levitt talked with
Bloomberg’s  Tom Keene  and Michael McKee on Bloomberg Radio’s
“ Bloomberg Surveillance .”  For the audio, click here.  AIM’s Stuttard Sees Global Policy Push to Support SMEs  Marcus Stuttard, head of the  Alternative Investment Market ,
the London Stock Exchange’s international market for smaller
companies, discussed the outlook for listings of smaller and
medium-sized enterprises.  He spoke with Francine Lacqua and Guy Johnson on Bloomberg
Television’s “City Central.”  For the video, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  