-- Syrian Rebels on Terror List Show U.S. Unease on Factions
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-12-13T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/syrian-rebels-on-terror-list-show-u-s-unease-on-factions.html
The Obama administration’s
designation of a Syrian rebel group as a terrorist organization
reflects unease about the factions receiving support from U.S.
allies in the fight against Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.  The U.S. added one of the more successful anti-Assad
military groups, al-Nusra Front, to its list of terrorist
organizations Dec. 11, citing the group’s ties to al-Qaeda in
 Iraq . U.S. officials worry that the conflict has become a magnet
for Islamic militants, and it hasn’t armed rebels out of concern
that weapons could fall into fundamentalist hands.  U.S. allies such as Qatar and Saudi Arabia haven’t
hesitated to supply rebels, including militant groups. The U.S.
is trying to counter a growing Islamist dynamic in Syria by
bolstering the secular opposition, and it’s also sending a
message to its allies in this fight, State Department
spokeswoman Victoria Nuland told reporters yesterday.  Adding al-Nusra Front to the terrorist list was intended to
advise “partners who have made choices other than ours in terms
of the way they are supporting the opposition” that they should
be “vigilant” about whom they back, Nuland said.  “We’re looking to the international community to
differentiate; we’re looking to Syrians to differentiate,”
Nuland said, between opposition groups that have a democratic
 Syria  in mind and those “al-Qaeda-affiliated groups that have a
very, very different vision about how people ought to live.”  No Coordination  The effort may be too late, according to a U.S. defense
official, who wasn’t authorized to discuss the matter publicly
and asked to not be named. A French official told reporters in
Paris yesterday that there’s no coordination among allies on the
issue of arming Syrian rebels. He said weaponry is arriving in
Syria from Qatar via Jordan and  Turkey .  Like the U.S., France is reluctant to arm the rebels, the
French official said, because it fears that weapons will end up
in the hands of militants. He cited arms  France  sent to Libyan
rebels that are now being used by extremists in  Mali .  The revolt against Assad began in March 2011 as a secular
protest, said David Schenker, head of the Arab Politics Program
at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy. Recent
reports, though, have documented that Islamist rebel groups are
now the best armed and most effective, he said in an interview.  “That shouldn’t have been a surprise, because the Saudis
love the Salafis,” Schenker said, referring to an ultra-
conservative Sunni interpretation of Islam. “The Qataris love
the Muslim Brotherhood, and the absence of the United States all
but assured there was no discrimination about who was getting
the weapons. In fact, there may have been a bias toward
Islamists.”  ‘Initial Reluctance’  While the U.S. declined to arm the rebels, the Qatari and
Saudi governments, as well as individuals in those countries,
acted quickly, according to an October report by the Brussels-
based International Crisis Group.  “The West’s initial reluctance to act -- and enduring
reluctance to act decisively -- coupled with early willingness
of private, wealthy, and for the most part religiously
conservative Gulf Arabs to provide funds, bolstered both the
Salafis’ coffers and their narrative, in which  Europe  and the
U.S. figure as passive accomplices in the regime’s crimes,”
said the report.  The U.S. has tried recently to increase the momentum of the
regime’s secular opponents, most prominently with President
 Barack Obama ’s Dec. 11 announcement that the U.S. considers the
Syrian Opposition Council the “legitimate” representatives of
the Syrian people.  Lacking Unity  Still, the effort to bolster the secular opposition will be
undermined by the lack of unity among allies, said Amr Al-Azm,
an associate professor of Middle East history at Shawnee
University in Portsmouth,  Ohio , and a member of a Syrian
opposition group.  Moreover, he said, if the Assad regime doesn’t think the
political opposition controls the fighters on the ground, it
will have little incentive to negotiate with the Syrian
Opposition Council.  “The regime will want to know that the opposition can
enforce agreements,” said Al-Azm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  