-- U.K. Nuclear Regulator Approves EDF, Areva Reactor Design
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-12-13T14:34:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/u-k-nuclear-regulator-said-to-approve-edf-areva-reactor-design.html
The U.K. nuclear regulator gave
approval to a reactor design by  Areva SA (AREVA)  and  Electricite de
France SA , bringing EDF closer to its goal of expanding in
 England .  The Office for Nuclear Regulation and the Environment
Agency permitted Areva’s U.K. European pressurized water reactor
design for construction in Britain, according to a  statement 
today on the ONR website.  The government wants to make building new nuclear stations
more palatable for investors while reassuring consumers the
industry is safe as it pushes low-carbon energy sources to meet
growing demand. EDF,  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA and  Iberdrola SA (IBE)  are among
companies studying whether to build nuclear plants in Britain,
which is seeking to replace an aging power station without
adding to carbon emissions.  “It is a significant step, and ensures that this reactor
meets the high standards that we insist upon,” said Colin
Patchett, acting chief inspector of nuclear installations at
ONR. “There remain site-specific issues that must be addressed
before we’ll approve its construction on any site.”  The purpose of the so-called Generic Design Assessment
process is to improve the safety and environmental aspects of
reactors while their designs are still on paper to avoid costly
changes during construction. The Areva, EDF design, called the
U.K. EPR, is the first to go through the assessment process. It
cost the companies 35 million pounds ($57 million) and took five
years. All new reactor types proposed for the U.K. must complete
the GDA.  Fukushima Concern  EDF operates eight atomic power stations in Britain and has
proposed to add Areva reactors at its Hinkley Point and Sizewell
sites. Areva, based in Paris, yesterday signed agreements with
25 U.K.-based companies. The pact worth as much as 400 million
pounds is to supply equipment and services for two EPR reactors
at Hinkley Point C, which won a site licence last month.  Vincent de Rivaz, chief executive at EDF’s local unit, said
in a statement that the assessment process didn’t change cost
estimates for the reactor. EDF Energy plans to have “main
components” of agreements relating to contracts for power from
Hinkley Point in the next few weeks, with a final investment
decision “at the earliest possible date,” he said.  The Office for Nuclear Regulation in December 2011 gave
“interim” approval to Areva and EDF’s design. It asked the
companies to address 31 concerns, the last of which was settled
on Dec. 7, the watchdog said in a statement on its website
yesterday. One of those concerns was added after the Fukushima
disaster, Dave Watson of the ONR said in an interview in  London .  The GDA acceptance doesn’t allow for construction to
proceed. That still requires site specific approvals, such as
planning permission, environmental permits and nuclear site
licences.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  