-- U.K. Inflation Seen Persisting in Lackluster Economy
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   J o s h u a   R o b i n s o n
-- 2012-12-13T08:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/u-k-inflation-seen-persisting-in-lackluster-economy.html
U.K. inflation  will be faster
than previously forecast in the next two years, constraining the
central bank’s room for maneuver as the economy struggles to
pick up, according to a survey of economists.  Gains in the consumer price index will average 2.5 percent
in 2013, up from 2.2 percent predicted in November, according to
the median forecast in the Bloomberg monthly survey of 35
economists. They also raised their median forecast for 2014 to
match the central bank’s 2 percent target, up from 1.9 percent.  The results underscore the concern raised yesterday by Bank
of England Chief Economist  Spencer Dale  that U.K. inflation may
show “stickiness.” That may complicate the task of policy
makers who are trying to revive the economy. Charlie Bean, the
central bank’s deputy governor, said last month that the door is
still open for more quantitative easing.  “The stickiness in inflation is likely to continue and the
rate may rise to around 3 percent next year,” said Howard Archer, an economist at IHS Global Insight in London. “If
inflation starts rising above 3 percent it’s going to become
more difficult for them to justify doing more QE and keep their
credibility.”  BOE Target  Inflation accelerated to 2.7 percent in October, the
fastest since May, as higher university tuition fees pushed
consumer-price growth further above the BOE’s target. The Office
for National Statistics will publish its data for November on
Dec. 18.  The central bank last month forecast inflation to be at
about 1.8 percent in the final quarter of 2014, and said risks
to their forecast for consumer price growth to reach the target
in the medium term are “broadly balanced.”  The U.K.’s  double-dip recession  ended in the third quarter,
though recent data suggest the rebound has faltered. Industrial
production unexpectedly fell in October. The economy probably
barely grew in the three months through November and the
recovery next year won’t be strong enough to lower the jobless
rate, the National Institute of Economic and Social Research
said on Dec. 7.  BOE policy makers have argued that withdrawing stimulus to
drive inflation down to their target would have worsened the
strains on the economy. The Monetary Policy Committee paused its
bond purchase program at 375 billion pounds ($605 billion) in
November as officials focused on the prospects for their Funding
for Lending program to revive growth.  Dale’s View  “The stickiness of inflation is a by-product of the real
adjustment that our economy has been forced to make,” Dale said
in a speech yesterday in  London . “The MPC could have tried to
achieve a lower rate of inflation over this period. But only by
steering a course involving an even deeper recession and even
higher unemployment. There are no easy fixes to these types of
real adjustments.”  Economists forecast inflation of 2.7 percent this quarter,
up from a previous prediction of 2.4 percent. By the third
quarter next year the rate will average 2.6 percent, up from 2.4
percent.  For  Germany , the median forecast of 37 economists showed
German GDP will grow 0.8 percent next year, down from 1 percent
previously predicted. The outlook for 2014 improved, with growth
of 1.8 percent against an earlier forecast for 1.4 percent.  The overall view for the euro zone worsened for next year
to a 0.1 percent contraction from 0.1 percent growth.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Robinson in London at 
 jrobinson37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Marco Babic at 
 mbabic@bloomberg.net  