-- U.K. CBI Manufacturing Index Increases, Expectations Improve
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-12-13T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/u-k-cbi-manufacturing-index-increases-expectations-improve.html
A U.K. factory index rose in
December and the outlook at companies for the next three months
improved, the Confederation of British Industry said.  A gauge of  manufacturing orders  rose to minus 12 from minus
21 in November, the U.K.’s biggest business lobby said in a
report in  London  today. The median of 11 forecasts in a
Bloomberg News survey was for a reading of minus 15. A measure
of manufacturers’ output expectations for the next three months
rose to zero from minus 9.  “December’s survey reports a welcome improvement in
manufacturers’ order books and their expectations for output,”
Anna Leach, the CBI’s head of economic analysis, said in the
statement. “Even so, they remain hesitant in predicting further
output growth and are keeping stock levels low. Conditions in
the sector and the wider economy are likely to remain fragile
until global conditions improve over the course of 2013.”  Britain’s budget office cut its economic forecasts last
week and said the outlook for the global economy and U.K.
exports has “deteriorated.” Bank of England Chief Economist
 Spencer Dale  said in a speech yesterday that Britain was going
through a “long and painful” adjustment and that inflation may
prove sticky.  The CBI said its index of export orders was minus 11
compared with minus 12 in November. Manufacturers’ expectations
for output-price inflation over the next three months picked up
in December to 17 -- the highest in nine months -- from 8. Nine
of 11 sectors reported an increase in inflation expectations,
led by building materials, metal manufacture and food and drink,
it said.  The CBI conducted the survey of 392 manufacturers between
Nov. 22 and Dec. 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 Jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  