-- U.K. Government Lifts Ban on Shale Gas Fracking
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-12-13T15:01:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/u-k-government-lifts-ban-on-shale-gas-fracking.html
Britain ended a ban on exploring for
gas with hydraulic fracturing, allowing Cuadrilla Resources Ltd.
to resume the use of technology that caused earthquakes in 2011.  The U.K. has set up controls to curb the risk of quakes in
developing shale gas, Energy Secretary  Ed Davey  said in London.  “Shale gas could have potential to help the U.K. to
diversify its energy mix and provide an indigenous source of gas
to support the move to the low-carbon economy,” Davey said.  The government is promoting gas with tax breaks for shale
exploration to try to secure energy supplies while replacing
aging coal and oil power stations. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
said Dec. 11 the U.K. should be at the heart of a “shale gas
revolution.” Critics say the plans push  climate change  targets
out of reach and leave the U.K. at risk when gas prices rise.  Higher gas costs may add more to consumer energy bills than
support for clean energy, a government adviser said today in a
report. Rising wholesale  gas prices  would add 130 pounds ($210)
to household bills by 2020, from 2011, compared with 100 pounds
from spurring renewables, the Committee on Climate Change said.  Hydraulic fracturing, known as fracking, was halted after
two tremors at Cuadrilla’s wells in northern  England  last year.
The technique involves pushing pressurized fluids into wells to
break apart underground rock formations and unlock gas deposits.  Turning Point  The government will set levels of unusual seismic activity
at which operations must stop at a 0.5 magnitude, Davey said.
The Cuadrilla quakes were probably caused by frack fluid moving
along a fault already under stress, the government has said.  The company said today’s decision was a “ turning point  for
U.K. energy” and it’s ready to push ahead next year with plans
for fracking and testing at wells in Lancashire. It estimates
200 trillion cubic feet of gas is in place in the Bowland Shale
area. Chief Executive Officer Francis Egan said this had the
potential to supply as much as a quarter of U.K. demand.  Fracking has also raised concerns that groundwater may be
contaminated by its use of chemicals pumped underground.  The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency in 2011 linked
fracking to contaminated drinking water in Pavillion,  Wyoming .
The agency is retesting Wyoming wells, while industry-funded
studies say the technique poses no threat to groundwater.  The government’s critics have warned against a program to
build gas power plants while U.K. shale projects are unproven.  Gas Prices  U.K. reliance on gas, including plans for 26 gigawatts of
new gas-fired stations, is a “high risk gamble” that hampers a
goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 80 percent by 2050,
according to WWF-UK.  Caroline Flint , who shadows Davey for the
opposition  Labour Party , said his plan threatens higher prices.  Using gas within a diverse set of resources is “the most
sensible” policy and compatible with climate goals, Davey said.  Corin Taylor, senior economic adviser at the Institute of
Directors business lobby, welcomed the government’s decision,
citing a U.S. shale boom that has cut the country’s energy
prices. “We should seek a slice of that pie,” he said.  European shale projects will be more controversial and
costly than in the U.S., where public opposition and geological
challenges are less pronounced, according to Jonathan Lane,
GlobalData’s head of consulting for power and utilities.  The U.K. doesn’t yet know how much gas can be economically
tapped, Davey said. The government and British Geological Survey
are due to publish a report on shale resources early next year.  The second reading of an Energy Bill to spur investment in
gas, nuclear and renewables is expected next week, Davey said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in  London  at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  