-- U.S. Banks to Make Another Push Against Volcker Rule
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-12-13T15:56:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/u-s-banks-to-make-another-push-against-volcker-rule.html
Volcker rule opponents are making
their case for alternatives to the proprietary trading ban at a
U.S. House Financial Services Committee hearing as regulators
move closer to completing work on the Dodd-Frank Act measure.  Today’s hearing will be the last in this session of
Congress on the impact of the restrictions for banks that
benefit from federal deposit insurance and discount borrowing.
Financial-industry representatives will argue for higher capital
standards rather than the rule’s outright trading ban, according
to testimony prepared for the hearing.  Efforts to finalize the multi-agency rules, which have
taken more than a year so far, will be complicated by the 
departure of Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman  Mary Schapiro , who is stepping down tomorrow. No regulators are 
scheduled to testify at the House hearing.  “It’s obvious that since they haven’t put anything out
they are having difficulty among the members of the ruling class
in trying to decide what the outcome is going to be,”  Tim Ryan ,
chairman and chief executive officer of the Securities Industry
and Financial Markets Association, said in an interview
yesterday.  The House committee scheduled the hearing after an August
request from Representative  Spencer Bachus , the Alabama
Republican who leads the panel, for suggested alternatives to
the Volcker rule. Most industry responses proposed higher
capital standards instead of a ban.  Rule Delays  The rule, which regulators first proposed in October 2011,
drew 18,000 comment letters, many from banks complaining that it
was too complex and could hurt economic growth. Named for former
Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker , who championed it as an
adviser to President  Barack Obama , is intended to prevent
deposit-taking banks from putting depositors’ money at risk.  Regulators, who had said they expected to finish the rule
by the end of the year now expect to complete their work early
next year, according to Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke . The Fed is
one of five regulators working on the measure.  “I think there is quite a bit of agreement -- I wouldn’t
say a final agreement -- but quite a bit of agreement on key
points among the regulators at this juncture,” Bernanke said at
a news conference. “So it’s our intent to try to get this done
early in 2013.”  Bachus and Representative  Jeb Hensarling  of  Texas  sent a
letter to regulators on Nov. 29 requesting a delay of the rule’s
effective date for two years after the final version is issued.
They cited disagreements among regulators and a lack of
transparency in the rule writing.  July Compliance  The Fed in April said banks have until July 2014 to fully
conform their activities and investments to the Volcker
restrictions. The Fed has the authority to extend that date.  Dodd-Frank charges five agencies -- the Office of
Comptroller of the Currency, Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.,
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the Fed and the SEC --
to write regulations implementing the rule. The Treasury
Department must coordinate the agencies’ rulemaking.  When Schapiro steps down this week, she’ll leave behind a
commission composed of two Democrats and two Republicans. The
split could delay dozens of rules, including Volcker.  The industry has complained the complex rule will have
unintended consequences.  Complexity Level  “The level of complexity is so high and your need to do as
little damage as possible to the capital markets is so great you
need to change your thinking,” Sifma’s Ryan said yesterday.
“The idea that the presumption which they built into the
original proposal which is prop trading unless you can prove
otherwise, really needs to be flipped the other way.”  Representative  Barney Frank , the Massachusetts Democrat who
co-wrote the law that created the Volcker rule, said its
complexity is a product of changes the industry requested.  “When the Volcker rule was first proposed, many in the
financial community asked that it take into account this that
and the other,” Frank, who is retiring, said at today’s
hearing. “There’s been an effort to try to accommodate this,
and now that’s being used against the people who have listened
to some of these comments.”  Dennis Kelleher, president and chief executive officer of
Better Markets Inc., said in fact the Volcker rule isn’t as
complex as bankers claim.  Speculative Bets  “The Volcker rule is, in many ways, very simple: It
prohibits the handful of biggest too-big-fail banks from making
high risk speculative bets, typically very, very big bets,
usually but not always with the banks’ own money as
distinguished from investing and trading their customers’ money
on their customers’ behalf,” he said in testimony prepared for
the hearing. “This type of trading is nothing more than
gambling.”  The rule also limits banks’ investments in private-equity
and hedge funds. The industry has argued that the rule’s
definition of such funds is too broad and would encompass other
securitized vehicles used for lending.  “Unless corrected through regulation or legislation this
over-breadth could prohibit securitization vehicles, cash
management entities, certain joint ventures and even internal
holding companies simply because they meet a technical legal
standard that is common among true investment funds,” Thomas Quaadman, vice president of the Center for  Capital Markets 
Competitiveness at the Chamber of Commerce, wrote in prepared
testimony.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  