-- U.S. Should Risk More to Bolster Assad Opponents
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-12-13T23:45:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/u-s-should-risk-more-to-bolster-assad-opponents.html
The conflict in Syria is fast
becoming a struggle not just to remove a tyrant, but also to
prevent al-Qaeda from establishing a base in a failed state at
the heart of the  Middle East .  The U.S. and its allies are responding more actively as
events on the ground gather speed. However, the Obama
administration remains too cautious after 22 months of fighting
and an estimated 50,000 deaths.  Now, as more military bases fall to the opposition and U.S.
intelligence suggests that the increasingly desperate regime is
deploying Scud missiles against the insurgents, the end of
President Bashar al-Assad’s rule, if not of the war itself, may
be getting closer. Even Russia, which has been Assad’s stalwart
defender, has acknowledged that the opposition may win.  The U.S. has no appetite for becoming embroiled in another
Middle Eastern war, yet a much larger American commitment --
one that is seen and felt within Syria -- will be required to
shape the outcome.  President  Barack Obama ’s decision this week to recognize
the  National Coalition  for Syrian Revolutionary and Opposition
Forces is, as he said, a big step. It opens the way for more
decisive measures, such as turning the coalition into a
government in exile. The recognition followed the U.S.’s public
blessing of a unified Supreme Military Council for the
opposition, and the listing of the al-Qaeda-linked al-Nusra
Front, which is also battling the regime, as a terrorist
organization.  Sound Thinking  Taken together, these moves prepare the way for the U.S.
and its allies in Turkey, the Gulf states and  Europe  to work
more directly with the opposition. The thinking here is sound:
Without a vehicle for a political solution in  Syria  once Assad
goes, the conflict is doomed to devolve into a Lebanon-style war
among its militias -- Islamists, secular Sunnis, Alawites and
Kurds -- with or without a no-fly zone or bombing campaign.
Under such circumstances, Assad’s army would probably emerge as
just the best trained and equipped of the militias vying for
power.  Creating a combined military command makes it easier to
provide the rebels the U.S. wants to promote with cash to buy
weapons and the training to use them. The designation of al-
Nusra as a terrorist group makes clear that U.S. support is
conditional and that al-Qaeda cannot be a legitimate partner in
the struggle. Just months ago, according to a  report  by the
analyst Aron Lund, radical Islamist groups such as al-Nusra were
marginal. Now they are the opposition’s frontline troops.  That’s why the Muslim Brotherhood and Free Syrian Army
commanders have condemned the listing of al-Nusra. The group is
one of the most effective rebel fighting forces and is
increasingly popular, because unlike some of the non-Islamist
militias, its members don’t steal and loot. The opposition has
declared Dec. 14 “We’re all al-Nusra” day.  The steps taken over the past days make sense in
 Washington , but from the vantage point of the rebels in Syria
(and therefore in practice) they make almost none. The U.S. has
been too distant from the conflict to have the standing to tell
Syrians which political leaders they should acknowledge, which
commanders they should follow and which fighters they should
reject.  To gain influence in Syria, now and after the war, the U.S.
will have to take greater risks. We continue to believe that
direct military intervention would be counterproductive.
Instead, the moment is ripe to apply new pressure on Russia to
change its stance and to support efforts at the  United Nations
Security Council  to end the war. The benefits of backing Assad
are disappearing, and  Russia  may be ready to salvage some sort
of post-conflict role in the country.  Training Needed  The U.S. needs to make a commitment of more money, as well
as weapons training for chosen units of the opposition,
including for anti-tank and anti-aircraft weapons. Some rebels
already have these, after seizing them from the army or getting
them from outside backers.  A government in exile without funding to show results on
the ground will be worse than useless. Similarly, the atomized
units of the Free Syrian Army are unlikely to obey anyone who
doesn’t provide access to money and weapons. If, as is the case
now, these resources come only from  Qatar  and  Saudi Arabia ,
Islamists will continue to be the main beneficiaries.  Money is also needed to provide aid and basic services in
rebel-held areas. The opposition’s leadership in exile will be
relevant to the long-suffering Syrian population only if it can
provide these services.  Some of the cash no doubt would be stolen or wasted.
Sophisticated weapons bought with U.S. funds and provided with
U.S. training could be passed on to anti-American Islamists.
These are problems to be dealt with, however, by strengthening
the opposition forces inside Syria that the U.S. can work with
once the fighting is over.  The U.S. has so far committed  $210 million  to Syria, adding
$14 million this week at the Friends of Syria meeting in
 Morocco . That sounds like real money, until you consider that
 Turkey  alone has already spent $400 million on aid for the
estimated 200,000 Syrian refugees it now hosts. An additional
2.5 million people are displaced within Syria and also in dire
need. The Obama administration’s lead-from-behind strategy is
designed to protect U.S. interests without a commitment of
troops. Even doubling or tripling the current spending looks
cheap compared with the $1 trillion spent in  Iraq .  Unless there is a more visible engagement from the U.S. and
its allies, it’s hard to see how policy makers in Washington and
elsewhere can succeed in grafting a government of exiles onto
the Syrian forces that are doing the fighting; or force unity
onto the Free Syrian Army; or influence how, and with which
allies, the opposition fights the war.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 