-- U.S. and Partners Agree on Revised Nuclear Offer for Iran
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-12-13T01:44:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/u-s-and-partners-agree-on-revised-nuclear-offer-for-iran.html
The U.S. and its partners have
hammered out a revised deal to offer  Iran , aimed at persuading
the Islamic Republic to curtail nuclear activities that might be
used to produce an atomic bomb.  The amended proposal, agreed to in recent days by the six
world powers involved in the negotiations, would be put on the
table at the next round of talks with Iran, according to a U.S.
official who spoke yesterday on condition of anonymity because
Iran hasn’t yet seen the plan. The official described it as an
updated proposal from the one discussed in  Baghdad  in May, and
not a dramatic new plan or grand bargain to address all of the
international community’s concerns at once.  The U.S. and its partners -- France, Britain, China, Russia
and  Germany  -- are seeking to restart nuclear talks in a push to
persuade the Persian Gulf state to stop enriching uranium to 20
percent levels, a potential intermediate step toward bomb-grade
fissile material.  The revived negotiations are seen as the best hope for
avoiding a military confrontation over Iran’s disputed program
as soon as next year. The U.S., European allies and  Israel 
accuse the Iranians of pursuing a nuclear weapons capability.
Iran says its program is for civilian energy and medical
research  Several U.S. officials said the time is ripe for restarting
talks in the aftermath of President  Barack Obama ’s re-election
and several months before Iran’s presidential elections next
June.  Phone Contact  Helga Schmid, a senior official with the European Union,
which leads the talks between the six powers and Iran, spoke by
phone with Iran’s deputy nuclear negotiator, Ali Bagheri, “to
discuss the way ahead, including possible dates and venues” for
talks, State Department spokesperson Victoria Nuland said
yesterday.  The talks faltered months ago after the two sides failed to
agree to a deal during three rounds of negotiations in Istanbul,
Baghdad and Moscow between April and June. Negotiators for the
U.S. and its partners adopted a step-by-step approach, saying
any deals should be based on reciprocal actions, building toward
a long-term agreement for Iran to address all international
concerns about its nuclear activities.  Former diplomats involved in Iran policy, including Thomas Pickering, have urged the U.S. and its partners to restart
negotiations with a revised offer as soon as possible.  Realistic Offer  What the six powers had previously proposed “is not close
enough to being a realistic offer that the other side will take
seriously,” said Pickering, a former U.S. ambassador to the
 United Nations  and former No. 3 official at the State
Department. Iran’s counterproposal was “not realistic either,”
he said in a telephone interview yesterday.  Each side was demanding “a horse for a rabbit,” rather
than genuine reciprocal steps, he said.  It’s critical, Pickering said, for the six powers to put
forward a realistic proposal soon “to see if there’s any
reaction to move things ahead. If there’s not, then the
situation’s worse than we thought,” Pickering said.  Earlier this year, the six powers asked Iran to halt all 20
percent enrichment, transfer medium-enriched material out of
Iran and shut down its underground Fordo facility, which was
built clandestinely near the holy city of Qom. In exchange, the
world powers offered technical cooperation and parts for Iran’s
medical research reactor, parts and repairs for commercial
aircraft and help acquiring a light water research reactor for
medical isotopes.  Unequal Deal  Iran, which derided the deal as unequal, asked instead for
relief from sanctions that have crippled its economy and sent
its currency plunging over the last year. Iran’s oil output,
formerly the second-largest in OPEC, has dropped to fifth among
the 12 members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries as a result of sanctions.  The U.S. and the EU have said they won’t lift all sanctions
until Iran takes irreversible steps to resolve concerns about
possible military dimensions of its nuclear program.  Both the U.S. and Israel have threatened military action to
stop Iran from acquiring an atomic bomb.  On a separate track, officials from the  International
Atomic Energy Agency  are in Tehran today for talks seeking to
resolve questions about suspected covert military elements of
 Iran’s nuclear program . It will be the first meeting between the
two sides since talks broke down in August.  The top goal for the IAEA delegation visiting Iran will be
to win access to Parchin, a military complex about 20 kilometers
(12 miles) southeast of Tehran. The IAEA says it was provided
with intelligence information showing Iran may have constructed
a blast chamber for testing nuclear weapons components there.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Belfast at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  