-- U.S. Corporate Credit Swaps Rise; Teva Pharmaceutical Plans Bond
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2012-12-13T21:45:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/u-s-corporate-credit-swaps-rise-teva-pharmaceutical-plans-bond.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk climbed for the first time in four days as concern that
budget talks in Washington were stalling offset a bigger-than-
expected drop in first-time jobless claims.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, gained 1.2
basis points to a mid-price of 94.5 basis points at 4:14 p.m. in
New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said today the Senate
won’t consider a small-scale bill if no broader budget deal is
reached. House Speaker  John Boehner  said that President  Barack
Obama ’s proposal is “anything but” balanced, increasing
concern that a failure to reach a compromise will prolong the
economic slowdown and hinder companies’ ability to repay debt.  “There’s a bit of pricing into the markets that a fiscal
cliff deal will get done by the end of the year, and anything
that runs contrary to it is going to be a bit of a damper,”
 Scott MacDonald , head of research at MC Asset Management
Holdings LLC in Stamford, Connecticut, said in a telephone
interview. “Today was not a good day if you believe in the
fiscal cliff being resolved quickly.”  Obama and Boehner were meeting at the White House today for
budget talks, according to a spokesman for the speaker.
Lawmakers have to agree on a budget to prevent more than $600
billion of automatic tax increases and spending cuts from taking
effect next year.  Jobless Claims  The credit-swaps gauge dropped as much as 0.7 basis point
earlier as applications for jobless benefits fell to 343,000 in
the period ended Dec. 8, fewer than the 369,000 median forecast
in a Bloomberg survey. Retail sales rose in November, figures
from the Commerce Department showed today.  “The jobless claims number was pretty good, but people are
still concerned about how much employment growth there is, and
that’s why you’re not seeing a huge move,”  Mirko Mikelic , a
 money manager  at Fifth Third Asset Management in Grand Rapids,
Michigan, said in a telephone interview. “But it’s a positive
step, and the  Federal Reserve  is going to continue to try to
drive this recovery.”  The Fed announced yesterday it would buy $45 billion of
Treasuries per month starting in January, and linked its main
 interest rate  to unemployment and inflation targets. Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  said that monetary stimulus can’t fully offset
the effect of the fiscal cliff.  Teva Pharmaceutical  The credit-swaps index typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) , the world’s largest
maker of generic drugs, is offering $2 billion of dollar-
denominated bonds in its first U.S. sale this year. Proceeds
will be used for general corporate purposes, the Petach Tikva,
Israel-based firm said today in a filing. Moody’s Investors
Service will grade the new bonds A3, the ratings company said in
a statement today.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index rose 7.3 basis points to 477 basis points, according
to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Best Buy  Credit swaps protecting against losses on the debt of  Best
Buy Co. (BBY)  fell 1.6 percentage points to 17.3 percent upfront as of
3:30 p.m. in  New York , according to data provider CMA, which is
owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers
in the privately negotiated market.  That’s in addition to 5 percent a year, meaning it would
cost $1.73 million initially and $500,000 annually to protect
$10 million of the company’s debt.  The Minneapolis Star-Tribune reported founder Richard
Schulze will offer to take the company private by Dec. 15. The
bid will be about $5 billion to $6 billion, the newspaper said,
citing a person it didn’t name. Schulze has been working with
three private-equity firms, including Cerberus Capital
Management LP, on a takeover of the electronics chain, people
familiar with the matter have told  Bloomberg News .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  