-- U.S. Panel Discusses Potential Fed Oversight of Money Funds
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2012-12-13T20:14:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/u-s-risk-panel-discusses-possible-fed-oversight-of-money-funds.html
A group of U.S. regulators charged
with preventing another financial crisis discussed the
possibility of designating money-market mutual funds for Federal
Reserve oversight.  The Financial Stability Oversight Council, which is led by
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and includes Fed Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke , also discussed “regulation of cross-border
derivatives transactions” and “issues associated with access
to mortgage credit,” Treasury spokeswoman Suzanne Elio said in
an e-mailed statement today.  Regulators, led by outgoing Securities and Exchange
Commission Chairman  Mary Schapiro , have been working to overhaul
rules governing the $2.6 trillion money-fund industry since the
September 2008 collapse of the $62.5 billion Reserve Primary
Fund. Its failure, triggered by debt issued by Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc., set off a run by money-fund investors that helped
freeze global credit markets.  Schapiro, who leaves the SEC tomorrow, had planned as
recently as August to propose that money funds be forced to
choose between a floating share value or a combination of
capital buffers and withdrawal restrictions. She shelved the
proposal when three of her four fellow commissioners signaled
that they would reject it.  The council of regulators, or FSOC, began a process last
month by which it will pressure SEC commissioners to reconsider
the elements of Schapiro’s plan and a third option that also
included a capital buffer.  The FSOC today discussed a section of the Dodd-Frank
financial overhaul law that “would allow the council to
designate money-market mutual funds or their sponsors or
advisers for Federal Reserve supervision and enhanced prudential
standards,” according to Elio’s statement.  Geithner thanked Schapiro, saying the SEC chairman’s
“dedication and leadership have been instrumental to the
progress made by this council and by the SEC over the last few
years,” according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  