-- Longer Life Comes With Risk of More Illnesses, Study Says
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-12-13T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/humans-beat-bugs-to-add-life-only-to-suffer-illness.html
First the good news: people are
living longer than they did 20 years ago. The bad news? The
extra years are marred by illness, according to the largest
study of global health trends in history.  Over the last two decades,  life expectancy  rose to 67.5
from 62.8 for men and 73.3 from 68.1 for women worldwide, the
study, published in the journal  The Lancet  today, found. Still,
the gap between years lived and the number of those years in
which people enjoy good health widened, to 9.2 for men and 11.5
for women.  The study, written by almost 500 researchers from 50
countries, shows that economic development is a two-edged sword:
while bugs and viruses kill humans far less often than they used
to, poor diets and bad habits are taking their place.  That’s putting medical systems worldwide in a “train-wreck
scenario,” said Peter Piot, the director of the  London School 
of Hygiene and  Tropical Medicine . “We should live as long as we
can and as healthy as we can until the last day of life, and
that doesn’t seem to be the case,” Piot said at a briefing in
London today.  Leading Causes  Heart disease and stroke were still the two leading causes
of death globally in 2010, just as they were 20 years earlier,
the study found. But while infectious diseases such as
tuberculosis and malaria have dropped down the list of killers,
 lung cancer  and diabetes have climbed as salty food, smoking and
alcohol use replace childhood malnutrition and household air
pollution as the major health threats.  Researchers also examined the prevalence of disability. In
2010, the two most prevalent disease categories responsible for
disability were musculoskeletal disorders such as arthritis and
back pain, and mental disorders including depression,
schizophrenia and substance abuse.  “It is important to realize that health is more than
avoiding death,” Alan Lopez and Theo Vos of the University of
Queensland’s School of Population Health, said in a statement.
“As health-care costs are rising fast, it is essential to
provide governments with adequate information on how best to
prioritize their  health services .”  African Exception  Sub-Saharan Africa remains an exception to the global
trend. The average age of death increased by less than 10 years
in most of the region between 1970 and 2010, compared with more
than 25 years in Latin America, Asia and North Africa, the study
found.  While most of the world battles obesity, being underweight
remains the leading risk in the world’s poorest region, and
infectious diseases such as HIV, malaria and diarrhea are among
the top killers.  “We still have the challenge of the communicable diseases,
and my region, sub-Saharan Africa, is really trailing the world
on this,” Irene Agyepong, a public health expert at the Ghana
Health Service, said at the briefing.  The study, called the Global Burden of Disease, was led by
researchers from the  Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation 
at the  University of Washington  in Seattle and funded by the
Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. It also involved scientists
from the  World Health Organization , the Harvard School of  Public
Health , Imperial College London, the  University of Tokyo , the
University of Queensland and the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School
of Public Health.  Michael Bloomberg , New York’s mayor and the founder and
majority owner of Bloomberg LP, the parent of  Bloomberg News , is
an alumnus and benefactor of  Johns Hopkins University . Bloomberg
School of Public Health is named in his honor.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net ;
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  