-- Murdoch Son Seen Vying to Reclaim Ten Network: Real M&A
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y   a n d   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-12-14T06:22:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/murdoch-son-seen-vying-to-reclaim-ten-network-real-m-a.html
For buyers as diverse as Rupert
Murdoch’s eldest son Lachlan and rural broadcaster Southern 
Cross Media Group Ltd., there’s no cheaper media target in 
 Australia  than  Ten Network Holdings Ltd. (TEN)   The country’s third-ranked television broadcaster, which
airs  “Homeland”  and focuses on younger viewers,  plunged  60
percent this year through yesterday after twice selling new
stock to pay back debt and turning off advertisers with
programming flops. Even after revenue in the year through August
fell to a decade-low, Ten traded at a 53 percent discount to its
sales, the least expensive multiple of any similar-sized media
company in Australia, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Ten offers acquirers a free-to-air commercial broadcast
license that’s one of only three for Australia’s cities and
valuable regardless of current ratings, said Cox Media. Now with
more cash than debt, the A$673 million ($710 million) network
could return to profit with better programming, according to
Colonial First State Global Asset Management. Ten may be a
target for Chairman Lachlan Murdoch, whose father Rupert Murdoch
once owned the network, said BBY Ltd., while Credit Suisse Group
AG said  Southern Cross (SXL)  would also be a logical bidder.  “There are no more licenses to be issued -- from a
strategic perspective, that’s how any buyer would think,” Raaz Bhuyan, a Sydney-based fund manager at Colonial, which manages
about A$152 billion, including Ten shares, said in a telephone
interview. “Ten’s fundamental problem is it hasn’t attracted
the audience. They just need to attract the eyeballs so they can
go to the advertisers and ask for the dollars.”  Rupert Murdoch  Ten rose  1.9 percent  to 26.5 Australian cents, a 10-day
high, in Sydney today. The broader S&P/ASX 200 index was little
changed.  Neil Shoebridge, a spokesman for Sydney-based Ten, declined
to comment on a potential takeover. John Connolly, a spokesman
for Lachlan Murdoch’s Illyria Pty. at John Connolly & Partners,
said by e-mail he wouldn’t comment on market speculation. Rhys
Holleran, chief executive officer of Melbourne-based Southern
Cross, didn’t respond to a phone message and e-mail seeking
comment.  Ten, which broadcast the 1970s drama “Prisoner,” grew out
of a network of city channels licensed by Australia’s
government. The station has a history of wealthy owners.  Rupert Murdoch, the 81-year-old chairman and CEO of New
York-based  News Corp. (NWSA) , sold control of the network in 1987 after
becoming a U.S. citizen. His son Lachlan, 41, who lives in
Sydney, and casino billionaire James Packer acquired stakes in
2010. They each own 9 percent, while  Gina Rinehart , Asia’s
richest woman with a fortune of $18.7 billion, has a 10 percent
stake, according to Ten’s annual report and data compiled by
Bloomberg.  ‘Homeland’ Viewers  The backers haven’t protected Ten from a ratings slump.
“Everybody Dance Now,” a talent show hosted by Lachlan
Murdoch’s wife Sarah, debuted in August and was canceled within
weeks. “Masterchef Australia” is the only Ten program among
 Australia’s top 50  shows on free-to-air channels this year,
according to data from FreeTV Australia, which represents
commercial free-to-air television licensees.  The TV drama “Homeland,” which has won two Golden Globes
and six Emmys, didn’t make the rankings. That reflects the
channel’s broader struggle to attract viewers, even with award-
winning content, said Tim Montague-Jones, an analyst at
 Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  in Sydney.  ‘Downton Abbey’  Ten’s share of advertising revenue in Australia’s five
largest state capitals dropped to 26 percent in the first six
months of this year, from 29 percent a year before, according to
 FreeTV Australia .  Seven, which broadcasts “Downton Abbey” and is owned by
 Seven West Media Ltd. (SWM) , had 40 percent of the advertising, while
Nine Entertainment Co. had 34 percent in the most recent period.  Programming failures won’t turn off acquirers because Ten’s
appeal lies in its broadcasting license, an asset whose value
doesn’t just depend on popular programs, Peter Cox, a consultant
at Sydney-based Cox Media, said by phone.  “There are only three free-to-air commercial TV stations
in Australia,” he said. “There’s got to be considerable value
in having the third station.”  The licenses allow Ten, Nine and Seven to air programs in
major cities, while the networks must rely on regional partners
to broadcast beyond metropolitan areas because of current
regulations.  Southern Cross  Australia is  proposing  to change that, allowing mergers
between the metropolitan and regional broadcasters. The law will
be introduced to parliament early next year, Adam Sims, a
spokesman for communications minister Stephen Conroy, said in a
phone interview from Canberra, Australia.  The change would make Ten and Southern Cross merger
candidates because they already have a programming alliance,
Digby Gilmour, an analyst at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets in
Sydney, wrote in a Dec. 12 report. Southern Cross buys programs
from Ten and broadcasts them in the regional markets.  Ten’s sales fell to  A$727 million  in the year through
August, the lowest since 2002, and the company swung to a loss
of A$12.9 million from a profit of A$14.2 million a year
earlier, regulatory filings show. Rights offerings to raise a
combined A$430 million, to fund new programming and repay debt,
have also weighed on its shares.  In the most recent sale, Ten offer stock for 20 cents a
share, 38 percent less than its previous closing price at the
time of the Dec. 6 announcement. The discount has served to make
Ten a cheaper and more attractive takeover target, Mark McDonnell, a Sydney-based media analyst at BBY, said by phone.  Rinehart’s Motives  “Normally you would only have a major rights issue with
the share price at this very low level in dire circumstances
because it is so dilutive,” said McDonnell. “Circumstances
cannot really be described as dire.”  The  60 percent drop  in its stock price left Ten with a
price-sales  ratio  of 0.47 yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. That’s the lowest among 10 Australian media companies with
market values of more than $250 million, a group that fetches a
median valuation of 1.22 times sales.  McDonnell said both Rinehart and Lachlan Murdoch have
reason to make a bid for Ten. Rinehart, whose wealth comes from
iron-ore mining, may be seeking a platform for her political
views, he said.  “Her forays into media seem to be associated with a wider
political agenda associated with her mining interests,” said
McDonnell. “That’s really almost like an expense to support a
far more serious wealth creation strategy.”  In June, Rinehart failed to gain a board seat at newspaper
publisher  Fairfax Media Ltd. (FXJ)  after disagreeing on conditions
including signing a charter of editorial independence.  Family Business  Mark Bickerton, a spokesman for Rinehart, declined to
comment on her interest in Ten.  Lachlan Murdoch, by comparison, is more closely entwined in
Ten, said McDonnell. Ten buys some of its programs, including
“Masterchef Australia,” from  Shine Group , the London-based
production company founded by his sister, Elisabeth Murdoch, and
now owned by News Corp. Lachlan Murdoch is a board member of
News Corp. and was deputy chief operating officer of the company
until 2005.  For Southern Cross, a merger would provide more control
over costs and content and allow it to diversify its business,
according to Samantha Carleton, an analyst at Credit Suisse.  “They’ve got a radio business which should be less
cyclical and could support a greater investment upfront,” she
said in a phone interview from Sydney. “Over time, as the TV
improves, that could have benefits.”  Turnaround Plan  Southern Cross, Australia’s largest commercial radio
network, owns the station that broadcast the prank phone call to
the London hospital where the Duchess of Cambridge was treated
this month.  There’s no sign Ten’s  revenue  will recover in the next five
years, said Morningstar’s Montague-Jones. Advertisers can spend
on digital channels serving niche markets, and programming will
still suck up capital, he said.  “There are a number of different scenarios you could come
up with where it’s privatized,” he said. One of Ten’s
billionaire shareholders “could orchestrate a privatization of
the business and take it off the market.”  Montague-Jones values the stock at just 11 cents, according
to his Dec. 10 report, less than half yesterday’s closing price
of  26 cents  a share.  Still, Ten has begun cutting costs, which will help it
spring back to profitability quickly if it can draw advertisers
back, said Bhuyan, the fund manager at Colonial.  ‘Viable Business’  The company plans to cut costs by 6 percent this year, and
once it repays A$210 million of  borrowings  due in March, will
have net cash of A$45 million, it says. That compares with net
debt of A$416 million at the end of August 2011.  Each percentage-point increase in industry revenue share
adds A$25 million to Ten’s earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, Credit Suisse said. Last year’s
total Ebitda was A$94 million.  While Ten’s share of advertising revenue may slump to 22
percent next year, it may rebound to 27 percent in 2018,
according to forecasts from  Commonwealth Bank of Australia. (CBA)   “There’s definitely a viable business there,” said Cox of
Cox Media. “Who wouldn’t like to have A$600 million to A$800
million of revenue a year?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net ;
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net . 