-- Uribe Says Colombia May Cut 2013 Inflation Forecast Slightly
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   O s c a r   M e d i n a
-- 2012-12-13T15:22:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/uribe-says-colombia-may-cut-2013-inflation-forecast-slightly-1-.html
A surprise drop in Colombian
 consumer prices  last month means inflation may end next year
slightly below the 3 percent mid-point of its target range,
central bank Governor Jose Dario Uribe said.  The bank could trim its 2013 forecast after measures of so-
called “core” inflation, which exclude volatile food and fuel
prices, slowed, Uribe said in an interview at the bank’s Bogota
headquarters yesterday. Policy makers’ current forecast is for
prices to rise 3 percent next year, in line with the target.  “Partially, it was related to food prices and regulated
prices, but not just to these products,” Uribe said. “All the
measures of  core inflation  fell. We’d expected them to fall, but
not by this much.”  The central bank’s board voted 4-3 last month to cut the
 benchmark interest rate  to 4.5 percent, its lowest level in a
year, as industry  contracted  and inflation expectations fell.
Only two of 33 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg had forecast the
reduction.  Colombia  has lowered borrowing costs at three of its
last five meetings, the only major economy in the Americas other
than Brazil that has cut rates in the past six months.  Annual inflation  slowed  to 2.77 percent in November, its
lowest rate since 2010, and less than all 26 forecasts in a
Bloomberg survey, whose median prediction was for prices to rise
3.1 percent from a year earlier.  Falling Prices  “Our forecast is that inflation ends next year at 3
percent or, with this new data and with revisions, very probably
that will give us forecasts for next year below 3 percent,”
Uribe said. “It could be slightly below 3 percent, taking into
account the latest information.”  The drop in the inflation rate last month shows that the
central bank was right to cut interest rates on Nov. 23, Finance
Minister  Mauricio Cardenas  said on Dec. 5.  Colombia targets inflation of 3 percent, plus or minus one
percentage point. In November, the country’s inflation rate was
the lowest in the region after  Chile ’s and Peru’s, and the
closest to target of any major Latin American economy. The 0.14
percent monthly drop, the biggest in more than two years, was
led by a 0.49 percent reduction in food prices. Transport costs
slid 0.09 percent.  One measure of core inflation tracked by the central bank,
which excludes food staples, public services and fuel, slowed to
3.15 percent in November, its lowest rate since March, from 3.28
percent in October. Recent declines in inflation in  Peru  and
Chile also surprised analysts, Uribe said.  The central bank’s anxiety over excess credit expansion has
“diminished significantly” after loan growth slowed this year,
Uribe said.  Credit Growth  “We don’t have a target for credit growth, but we don’t
want it to continue growing at the pace it was in 2011,” Uribe
said. “In the last three months annualized, it is growing at
around 12-13 percent. This is a level that, without doubt, gives
us calm, given that it was growing at 25 percent for a prolonged
period.”  Consumer credit growth slowed for a seventh straight month
in September, to 19 percent from a year earlier, down from year-
on-year growth of more than 25 percent between August and
December last year. In its official communications, the central
bank has repeatedly signaled its unease with this rate of
expansion.  The economy will grow 4.5 percent this year, down from 5.9
percent in 2011, according to the median estimate of analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. That would be faster than  Brazil  and
 Mexico , the region’s largest economies, while trailing Peru and
Chile.  Colombia’s potential gross domestic product growth rate, or
the pace it can expand without inflation accelerating, is
somewhere between 4.2 percent and 5.3 percent, Uribe said.  Back to Normal  Financial markets are returning to normal after a temporary
drop in liquidity caused by the implosion last month of
 Interbolsa SA (INTBOL) ’s brokerage, the largest in the country, Uribe
said.  The central bank opened a so-called “liquidity window” to
lend to brokerages to avoid disruptions in financial markets
following Interbolsa’s collapse. This measure gave “enormous
tranquility” to the market, even though brokerages have
borrowed “practically nothing” via the facility, Uribe said.  “What happened with Interbolsa should cause reflection and
learning but, without doubt, it’s a special case, with specific
conditions in the functioning of that company,” Uribe said.
“The only good thing about crises is that you learn things.”  The central bank cut its policy rate last month, citing
weak global growth, a decline in industrial output and a high
level of “risk perception” among Colombians. Uribe will raise
the rate in October next year, according to the most frequent
forecast in a central bank survey of 39 economists published
yesterday.  The peso gained was virtually unchanged at 1795.05 per  U.S.
dollar  at 10.18 a.m. in Bogota, and has gained 8 percent this
year, the sixth-biggest appreciation of 171 currencies tracked
by Bloomberg. The yield on Colombia’s 10 percent debt due in
July 2024 fell three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to
5.98 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 