-- Murray Says Wal-Mart Great Employer Except When Not
-- B y   S u s a n   B e r f i e l d
-- 2012-12-13T20:00:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/murray-says-wal-mart-great-employer-except-when-not-correct-.html
(Corrects third paragraph from the end to show union is
looking into allegations of violations of workers’ rights.)  Cindy Murray has been working at
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ’s location No. 1985 in Laurel, Maryland,
for 13 years. She’s stationed in the fitting rooms and earns
$12.40 an hour.  Murray, who’s in her 50s, says she loves her job. She
thinks of herself as a model employee. She also helped start  OUR
Walmart , or Organization United for Respect at Walmart, the
group of employees who defied one of the most powerful companies
in the U.S. by holding protests at about 1,000 stores on the
busiest day of the year for retailers.  OUR Walmart says it has at least 4,000 members. The
protests, on the Friday after Thanksgiving, involved about 500
of them, as well as many thousands of others sympathetic to
their cause. Murray and her colleagues are asking Wal-Mart for
more full-time jobs with predictable schedules instead of part-
time work with hours that can change every three weeks -- and
wages that can provide their families a decent life. They also
want respect.  On the morning of Nov. 23, instead of going to work, Murray
put on her bright green OUR Walmart T-shirt and boarded a bus
provided by the  United Food and Commercial Workers Union , which
has tried and failed to unionize Wal-Mart associates for more
than a decade.  “Wal-Mart isn’t on a good path, and someone needs to stand
up and speak out,” Murray said. “But we always have fear
inside of us, too.”  They weren’t sure how many police would be present or if
shoppers would support them. They weren’t sure if afterward
their hours would be cut or if managers would make their lives
difficult. None of them could afford to lose their jobs.  Leading Chants  Murray was one of several hundred people, employees and
activists and community leaders, who met at a store in nearby
Hanover, Maryland. She helped lead chants, including “Stand up!
Live better!” a play on Wal-Mart’s slogan, “Save money, live
better.” They sang and marched for a couple of hours, then
moved on to another store. At 7 a.m. on Nov. 24, she punched in
for her regular shift.  Wal-Mart is the largest private employer in the U.S., with
almost 1.4 million workers in 4,602 stores. The company operates
in 26 other countries, employing an additional 780,000 people.
Its efficiency, in stores and throughout its supply chain, has
remade the retail industry.  When Wal-Mart decides to sell mortgages, local produce or
compact fluorescent  light bulbs , the effects ripple through the
economy. So do its decisions about workers’ schedules, wages and
benefits. With  revenue of $464 billion  over the past year, it’s
the biggest company in the U.S.  Relentless Growth  As it has expanded, Wal-Mart has been vilified by activists
and watchdog groups who say the company’s relentless growth has
come at the expense of its workers, the environment and the law.
Since 2005 it has agreed to pay about $1 billion in damages in
six different cases related to unpaid work.  The U.S.  Justice Department  and the Securities and Exchange
Commission are investigating allegations of corruption by
company executives in its Mexican subsidiary, Wal-Mart’s
biggest, and a potential coverup by executives at its
headquarters in  Bentonville , Arkansas. Wal-Mart said it’s
cooperating with the investigations and is conducting its own
internal investigation and review.  Bangladesh Fire  Last month more than 100 workers died in a fire at a
factory in Bangladesh that was sewing clothes for several
retailers, including Wal-Mart. The company said it was unaware
its supplier had sent work to the factory and has fired the
firm. According to  Bloomberg News , the previous year Wal-Mart
had declined to sign an agreement among retailers to pay their
suppliers to improve safety conditions at Bangladeshi factories.
Wal-Mart said it would be too expensive.  Wal-Mart has survived labor fights before. Yet Murray and a
core group of about 100 employees -- along with the largest
union of retail employees in the country and a branding firm
founded by a top adviser to President Obama -- are the
architects of what may prove to be the most potent challenge
yet.  Crucially, the thousands of associates who have joined OUR
Walmart say they’re not agitating for legal recognition or
collective bargaining rights. Unlike previous efforts, they’re
not trying to unionize. They say they want to make Wal-Mart a
better place to work and shop.  “It’s a cause that affects every American,” says Murray.  Disruptive Force  There’s also growing financial pressure. Wal-Mart wants to
expand into big cities where its size and power are
controversial. Elected officials, community leaders and
residents often see the company as a disruptive economic force
and a socially dubious one as well.  “A business case can be made that it would be smart for
them to figure out a way to improve the situation for their
workers so that OUR Walmart is an ally, not an opponent,” said
Ken Jacobs, chairman of the  University of California  at Berkeley
Labor Center. Or it could continue to dismiss OUR Walmart as a
small group of disgruntled associates who speak only for
themselves and their union backers.  Even with the organization’s success in attracting
attention to the Black Friday strikes, less than 0.1 percent of
the company’s U.S. workforce participated. What’s certain is
that Wal-Mart’s management is facing a new kind of unrest at a
time when it’s already vulnerable. Said Julius Getman, a labor
law professor at the  University of Texas  School of Law: “This
is a battle for the soul of Wal-Mart’s workforce.”  No Unions  Wal-Mart has been opposed to unions since Sam Walton opened
his first store in Rogers, Arkansas, in 1962. These days, “we
have human resources teams all over the country who are
available to talk to associates, and we will get questions about
joining a union,” said  David Tovar , a spokesman for the
company. “We would say: ‘Let us remind you of all that Wal-Mart
offers, and of what might go away. Quarterly bonuses might go
away, vacation time might go away.’”  Tovar said the company is proud of the jobs it offers, that
its benefits are affordable and comprehensive, and that there
are plenty of opportunities for associates to advance. Wal-Mart
has more employees working full-time than its competitors do, he
said, and a lower turnover rate.  “The suggestion that the issues OUR Wal-Mart is raising
are widespread or representative of any sizable number of
associates is ludicrous,” he said. “We know this because we
have hard data. And we know this because our managers and
executives are in our stores every day asking associates
questions. They believe what they’re getting at Wal-Mart is a
good deal.”  CEO Interview  In a rare public appearance at the  Council on Foreign
Relations  in New York on Dec. 11, Wal-Mart Chief Executive
Officer  Mike Duke , interviewed by Bloomberg LP CEO  Dan Doctoroff , dismissed the idea of a rift between Wal-Mart’s
employees and management.  “The characterization is not always accurate,” he said.
“This tension for me is not a tension.”  Murray’s campaign started six years ago. Backed by the
UFCW, and a coalition it called “Wake Up Walmart,” Murray
tried to get workers in her store to join the union. She didn’t
get far.  “We knew we had to do something different this time,” she
said. “The organization had to be made by associates and for
associates so they would feel more free to join.”  Veteran Organizer  Organizers at the UFCW felt the same way. In 2010 the union
hired a veteran labor leader, Dan Schlademan, to be the director
of “Making Change at Walmart,” a campaign it had just started.  “We needed to build something new,” Schlademan said. He
connected with Murray and a few other Wal-Mart employees and
then turned to ASGK Public Strategies, the media and branding
firm started by  David Axelrod , a senior political adviser to
President Obama. (Axelrod had sold his stake by 2010.)  “There is a permanent political campaign around the
legitimacy of Walmart on both sides,” said  Nelson Lichtenstein ,
a history professor at the University of  California  at Santa
Barbara and author of “The Retail Revolution: How Wal-Mart
Created a Brave New World of Business.” “Wal-Mart hires
operatives who are in and out of political campaigns,” he said.
“Unions enlist the hottest political consultants around.”  On its side, Wal-Mart had Leslie Dach, who had been a
strategist in several Democratic campaigns and a vice chairman
at public-relations firm Edelman. Dach was hired in 2006 in part
to improve the company’s reputation, especially with liberal
politicians and shoppers. By 2010 the company had reduced waste
and energy use, tried to offer more affordable health insurance,
and had supported Obamacare.  Customers, Officials  At an analysts’ meeting that October, Dach said: “I think
the numbers clearly show that customers and elected officials
like us better,” adding that “that makes it easier for us to
site stores, makes it easier for us to stay out of the public
limelight when we don’t want to be there.”  In the fall of 2010, ASGK began conducting opinion research
about how to effectively reach Wal-Mart employees. The firm
declined to comment on its work, though as a former executive
described it, they realized that buying an ad on  Facebook (FB)  Inc.
would allow them to target users who had identified themselves
as Wal-Mart employees. There were about 150,000 of them.  Then ASGK asked the employees to rate themselves according
to how committed they were to Wal-Mart. It focused on the group
in the middle: dedicated employees with a couple of complaints.
Chief among them was that they weren’t treated with respect by
their managers. Second was their pay.  What’s Important  “ASGK was good at getting to the heart of what really was
important to people,” Schlademan said. The firm helped name the
movement and craft a logo that looks like the OK hand sign.
“Three employees have it tattooed on their arms,” he said.  OUR Walmart had a brand. Now it needed more leaders. Maggie
Van Ness was an overnight stocker at store No. 1563 in
Lancaster, California, when she heard about the group from a
UFCW representative. In the fall of 2010, Van Ness and another
employee began holding meetings at a cafe every Friday, telling
their co-workers about the new movement. For a couple of months,
they went to the Los Angeles union hall every other week for
training.  “The union was very good at teaching us what we could and
couldn’t do,” said Van Ness, who left the company earlier this
year for health reasons. “They stood behind us and pushed in
the right direction.”  Mary Pat Tifft, from store No. 1167 in Kenosha, Wisconsin,
joined the organization in the spring of 2011 and quickly
emerged as an effective spokeswoman. Tifft, who’s 57, has worked
for Wal-Mart for almost 25 years.  Health-Care Memo  She said she was a contented employee until 2005, when
union organizers got hold of a memo from a Wal-Mart executive to
the board of directors. The memo proposed ways to hold down
spending on health care and other benefits without damaging Wal-
Mart’s reputation. It suggested capping pay, discouraging
unhealthy people from applying and expressed the company’s
frustration that workers with seniority made more than new
employees but were no more productive.  “Reading that tells you how they feel about associates,”
Tifft said. “It was degrading.”  Tifft makes $19.96 an hour, the most she can earn without
moving into management, which doesn’t interest her. Others in
her store don’t make enough to support themselves, she said, and
rely on the local food pantry that Wal-Mart takes pride in
contributing to.  “Everyone always banked on the fact that Wal-Mart would
have your best interests at heart. But it’s not true,” she
said.  Headquarters Visit  In June 2011, OUR Walmart made its debut. At the UFCW’s
expense, Murray, Van Ness and Tifft, along with 97 other
associates, traveled to Wal-Mart’s headquarters a couple of
weeks after the company’s annual shareholder meeting.  They wrote a  12-point declaration  that asked for wages and
benefits that ensured no associate would have to rely on
government assistance. They also called for dependable
schedules, expanded health-care coverage and the freedom to
speak up without facing retaliation. In the parking lot, they
presented the document to Karen Casey, the senior vice president
for global labor relations.  “It was really scary,” said Murray. “I think the
executives were just as shocked as we were. Wal-Mart heard us,
but they didn’t listen.”  ‘Taken Aback’  The Bentonville trip was the first time many OUR Walmart
members met face to face.  “I was so taken aback listening to other associates’
stories,” Tifft said. “It made me want to speak louder.”  The first discussion about holding protests on a Black
Friday began then. At a hotel conference room, Schlademan set up
computers for associates to learn how to use Facebook to stay in
touch and reach other potential members.  During the next year, union organizers and employee leaders
worked on recruitment. Van Ness said she signed up 25 employees
at her store, about 10 percent of the staff. Murray said there
are 40 members at her store, though most are silent. Monthly
dues are $5.  OUR Walmart returned to Bentonville in June 2012 for the
annual meeting, which coincided with Wal-Mart’s 50th
anniversary. The group had proposed a shareholder resolution
calling for greater disclosure about incentive pay for
executives, spurred by allegations in the New York Times that
top executives at headquarters covered up evidence from Wal-
Mart’s own investigation into accusations of bribery in Mexico.  Shareholder Resolution  Schlademan had found experts to help Tifft and three
others, all shareholders, craft the resolution. Then he got them
a lawyer when Wal-Mart tried to have it removed from the ballot.  In front of about 16,000 people, Proposal 6 was read aloud:
“We have cut costs too far, stores are understaffed and
associates cannot provide customers the service that  Sam Walton 
built the company on and that we are proud to provide.”  The statement quoted Sam Walton saying, “Listen to your
associates, they are your best idea generators.” It concluded
by saying “There has to be a new relationship based on honesty,
based on trust, based on respect.”  The auditorium was full of cheers; Tifft looked stunned.
The resolution, supported by  Institutional Shareholder Services ,
a leading proxy advisory group, won about 9 percent of the vote.
The Walton family controls almost half of the shares in the
company.  As the  holiday shopping season  approached, several dozen
employees at warehouses that serve Wal-Mart walked off the job
in California and Illinois to protest what they said were poor
working conditions. Then, in early October, OUR Walmart staged
its first strike, in Pico Rivera, California.  Analyst Meeting  From there, some members went to Bentonville for the annual
meeting for analysts. They stood in the parking lot, chanting:
“We do not get enough hours. We cannot take care of our
families.”  Later, Colby Harris, who’s 22 and works in the produce
department in a Wal-Mart in Lancaster, Texas, led a dozen or so
people to Wal-Mart’s first store. The group collected water
jugs, buckets, trash cans, cooking utensils. They found a rhythm
and began chanting, “What do we want? Respect! When do we want
it? Now!” Said Harris: “I think we caught the managers off
guard. It was exhilarating.”  At the meeting itself, Wal-Mart noted how well it treats
its associates. The company had already issued guidelines to
store managers about how to respond to walkouts or work
stoppages on Black Friday.  Company Campaign  “We wanted to ensure we provided the safest possible
shopping environment for our customers,” said Wal-Mart
spokesman Tovar. The company also engaged in its own workers’
campaign. “If OUR Walmart people are in a store trying to talk
to associates about joining a union, we do educate them about
what it would mean,” he said.  Acknowledging their existence proved Wal-Mart was paying
attention.  “That was a tactical mistake,” said Lichtenstein of UC
 Santa Barbara . “That ratified the importance of the protests.”  Murray agreed: “It was a great recruiting tool.” She and
other leaders spoke to associates afterward, explaining that
even with Wal-Mart’s assertions, their group is not trying to
form a union.  “Right now that’s not even a topic of conversation,”
Tifft said.  ‘Publicity Stunt’  On the Monday evening before Thanksgiving, Tovar told  CBS
News  that the protests were “another union publicity stunt.”
He added: “If associates are scheduled to work on Black Friday,
we expect them to show up and to do their job. And if they
don’t, depending on the circumstances, there could be
consequences.”  As encouragement, Wal-Mart offered associates an additional
10 percent discount if they worked the full day. (They are
normally entitled to a 10 percent discount.)  “Some people might call that an incentive,” Tifft said.
“I call it a bribe.”  On the day of the protests, Tovar issued a statement
accusing the UFCW of exaggerating the scope of the
demonstrations.  “We had our best Black Friday ever,” he said. A week
later, though, Wal-Mart felt compelled to again counter the
perception that its employees were in revolt. Michael Bender,
the president of Walmart West, wrote an op-ed in the San
Francisco Chronicle with the headline, “Our workers love their
jobs.” “I want our associates to know we have their backs,”
he wrote.  Wrong Fit  Cindy Boyd has been a full-time associate at a Wal-Mart in
Glendale, California, for the past 15 years. Her husband and son
work there, too. She doesn’t support OUR Walmart.  “I feel like, if they’re not happy, maybe it’s not the
right fit for them,” she said. “They shouldn’t bash the
company that feeds them.”  Shirley Jeanine Clem said she thought the protests were
silly and unnecessary. She’s been working at a Baytown, Texas,
store for nine years and was among the women reimbursed after
the company found they had been paid less than men for the same
work.  “As a caring mother, I do not hesitate to tell my
daughters to work for Wal-Mart,” she said.  OUR Walmart’s decision to create a new kind of organization
makes it a less predictable adversary than the company is used
to. Yet it’s hard to assess whether the group will achieve its
goals without the legal protections that come with union
recognition.  Money, Power  “Wal-Mart has the advantage of money and power, but these
things can be overcome,” said Getman of the University of
Texas. “The very fact that the situation is unusual gives an
advantage to OUR Wal-Mart.”  The group has gotten Wal-Mart’s attention. Beyond that, it
may be years before it’s possible to assess its impact on the
company.  Meanwhile, Wal-Mart has filed a complaint with the  National
Labor Relations Board  claiming OUR Walmart has been organizing
without seeking union recognition. The UFCW is reviewing more
than 100 allegations of violations of workers’ rights by Wal-
Mart and has promised to continue supporting OUR Walmart as long
as the group needs help.  “Everything will be building toward an even bigger Black
Friday 2013,” Schlademan said.  “I’m pretty sure Bentonville knows that we’re here to
stay,” Murray said. “I’m not going anywhere. I’m not backing
down.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Berfield in New York at 
 sberfield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bradford Wieners at 
 bwieners@bloomberg.net  