-- Uruguay Economy Grows Faster Than Forecast in Third Quarter
-- B y   L u c i a   B a l d o m i r
-- 2012-12-13T15:38:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/uruguay-economy-grows-faster-than-forecast-in-third-quarter-1-.html
Uruguay’s  economy  grew faster than
economists expected in the third quarter, spurred by increased
construction, transportation and communications activity.  Gross domestic product expanded 3 percent from a year
earlier, the central bank said today on its website, exceeding
the 2.4 percent median estimate of four economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. The economy grew 1.2 percent from the second quarter,
the bank said.  Growth was led by transportation and communications, which
expanded 7.1 percent, the bank said. Construction expanded 12
percent, mainly because of the building of a $2 billion pulp
mill in the west of the country, the bank said. On the other
hand, electricity, gas and water supply shrank 37.1 percent amid
a drought.  “2012 will end up as a year of low growth compared to the
pace we were used to in recent years,” said Pablo Moya, an
economist at research company Oikos.  The economy will expand 3.6 percent this year and 4 percent
in 2013, according to the median estimate of 10 economists
surveyed by the central bank in November. Last year, the
agriculture-based economy grew 5.7 percent, fueled by rising
domestic demand and increased exports.  Uruguay’s credit rating was raised to investment grade by
 Standard & Poor’s  in April and by Moody’s Investors Service in
July after the South American country reduced debt and
diversified exports.  In September, the central bank increased its benchmark
 interest rate  to 9 percent from 8.75 percent, saying “solid”
domestic demand and rising global commodity prices convinced
policy makers that inflation could quicken. Consumer prices rose
9.03 percent in November from a year earlier, the national
statistics institute reported on Dec. 4.  The bank’s five-member policy committee will meet on Dec.
28 to decide whether to change the rate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucia Baldomir in Montevideo at 
 lbaldomir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  