-- Musk’s SolarCity Climbs in Trading After Reducing IPO Price
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2012-12-13T21:05:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/musk-s-solarcity-climbs-in-trading-after-reducing-size-of-ipo.html
SolarCity Corp. (SCTY) , the solar power
provider led by billionaire Elon Musk, jumped 47 percent after
raising less than first sought in an initial public offering.  The shares rose to $11.79 at the close in New York. San
Mateo, California-based SolarCity and shareholders yesterday
raised $92 million in the offering, selling 11.5 million shares
for $8 apiece after earlier seeking as much as $151 million,
according to regulatory filings and a statement.  The company, which builds solar systems on customers’
rooftops and sells them the electricity, reported a $95 million
net loss in the 12 months through September. Chief Executive
Officer  Lyndon Rive  said the business model requires significant
upfront investment and will become cash flow positive by the end
of 2013 as new customers generate enough revenue to cover the
costs of buying and installing panels.  “We are installers, yes, but that’s just a part of our
business,” Rive, 35, said today in an interview. “What we
really do is provide clean electricity at a lower price than
your utility.”  SolarCity typically sells electricity for 10 percent to 15
percent less than customers pay utilities.  At the offering price, SolarCity was valued at about $585
million, or about 4.7 times sales in the past 12 months,
compared with multiples of less than 1 for publicly traded
peers. The shares sold in the IPO represent a 16 percent stake
in SolarCity, and Chairman Musk bought $15 million of the
offering, according to a regulatory  filing .  Lower Price  The IPO raised 39 percent less than originally sought after
the company increased the number of shares offered from 10.1
million and decreased the price from a range of $13 to $15.
SolarCity’s investors extracted a lower price even as the
company is poised for growth after completing the most equipment
installations in  California , the U.S.’s biggest solar-power
market.  SolarCity, which booked a $95 million net loss in the 12
months through September, is one of a handful of companies that
lease solar panels to customers, install them on their property,
and charge them below-market rates for the electricity they
generate.  While demand for alternative energy rises, solar-company
stocks have declined because of oversupply of equipment and raw
materials. That has sent the World Solar Energy Index of company
shares down as much as 65 percent this year, extending the drop
from its 2007 peak to 96 percent.  Real Goods Solar Inc. (RSOL) , which SolarCity names as a
competitor, yesterday traded at about 0.2 times last year’s
sales, while solar-module maker  First Solar Inc. (FSLR)  traded at about
0.9 times, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The stock is listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market under the
symbol SCTY. Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Credit Suisse Group AG
and Bank of America Corp. led SolarCity’s IPO.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  