-- HMV Raises Doubt About Future With Probable Breach of Covenants
-- B y   T h o m a s   M u l i e r   a n d   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-12-13T09:11:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/hmv-raises-doubt-about-future-with-probable-breach-of-covenants.html
  HMV Group Plc, (HMV)  the U.K.’s biggest
retailer of CDs and DVDs, raised fresh doubt about its future
after saying it will probably breach debt covenants next year
amid continued losses and lower-than-expected Christmas sales.  The company probably won’t comply with agreements on its
borrowings in January and April, HMV said today in a statement,
adding that full-year results are unlikely to meet expectations.  “This represents a material uncertainty which may cast
doubt upon the group’s ability to continue as a going concern,”
the Maidenhead, England-based company said in the statement. HMV
“may be unable to continue to realize assets and discharge
liabilities in the normal course of business.”  HMV  shares  plunged as much as 44 percent in  London , the
most ever. The company, which has been hurt by competition from
supermarkets and online retailers such as Amazon.com, is
reshaping its business as more consumers download music and
movies rather than purchase CDs and DVDs.  “We continue to see HMV as a value trap with potentially
insurmountable structural issues,” Freddie George, an analyst
at Seymour Pierce with a sell recommendation, said in a note.  Music producers and game developers delayed their release
schedule this year as suppliers avoided adding new products
during the London Olympics and the Queen’s Jubilee celebrations,
HMV said today. The fiscal third quarter, when the retailer
normally gets about 46 percent of revenue, will be even more
important this year as HMV seeks to boost sales, it said.  The company reported a net loss of 36.2 million pounds ($58
million) in the 26 weeks through Oct. 27.  Call of Duty  “We’ve been very focused around establishing strong
relationships with our suppliers, key stakeholders and banks,”
Chief Executive Officer Trevor Moore said in a phone interview.
HMV is looking to turn around the business by adding more space
for games like Call of Duty after the collapse of Game Group
Plc, and training staff more on products and customer service.  Finance Director Ian Kenyon said suppliers continue to
support the company with inventory, availability and promotions.
He wouldn’t comment on whether the retailer would still meet 10
million-pound pretax profit estimates this fiscal year.  “People are choosing more carefully, their purchases are
more considered,” Moore said, citing the popularity of deals
such as two chart CDs for 20 pounds.  The shares were down 33 percent at 2.75 pence as of 8:52
a.m. in London. They’ve fallen 21 percent in 2012, after losing
almost all their value in the previous two years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Mulier in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net ;
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  