-- Vattenfall Cuts Investments, to Enhance Focus on Wind Power
-- B y   T o r s t e n   F a g e r h o l m
-- 2012-12-13T10:20:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/vattenfall-cuts-investments-to-enhance-focus-on-wind-power.html
Vattenfall AB, Sweden’s biggest
utility, will place more focus on wind power while limiting new
renewable energy investments as  Europe  suffers from excess
capacity, low prices and tight margins.  As part of cost-cutting measures, the company will limit
investments in renewable energy while boosting the relative
share spent on wind turbines, Eva Vitell, director of onshore
wind power development at Vattenfall, said.  “We’re cutting overall investments into new plants, but
will defend the relative share of wind power, which is set to
increase, even as the available money bag shrinks,” Vitell said
yesterday at an interview in  Stockholm .  Vattenfall had planned to invest 147 billion kronor ($22
billion) in renewable energy through 2016, of which 138 billion
kroner was for wind power, with the funds now set to decrease by
an unspecified amount.  Together with  Norway , Sweden intends boosting annual
renewable electricity output by 13 to 14 terawatt-hours through
2020 in response to EU targets for cutting carbon emissions. In
their latest earnings statements, the Nordic region’s three
biggest utilities, Vattenfall, Statkraft SF and  Fortum Oyj (FUM1V) ,
announced cost-cutting plans to counter the impact of slumping
power prices.  “The power market outlook is gloomy and challenging” in
Europe for the years ahead, due to a capacity glut, low power
prices and low profit margins, Vattenfall Chief Executive
Officer Oeystein Loeseth said on an earnings call in October.  Until recently, the company had planned to produce 15
terawatt-hours a year from wind power and biomass sources by
2020. As of July, it got an annual 4.2 terawatt-hours from 1.3
gigawatts of installed wind turbines, with onshore capacity
concentrated in Denmark, the Netherlands and  Sweden , and
offshore capacity in the U.K.  Liquidity  Vattenfall says its liquidity protects its wind power
projects from the impact of subdued prices for power and
tradable electricity certificate subsidies in Sweden, which have
caused investors to retrench. As a result of lower earnings, the
country may fall short of official renewable energy goals, the
Swedish Wind Energy Association said on Oct. 23.  “We have an optimistic view on wind power. In some
markets, building turbines is already quite competitive, and
costs keep dropping very fast,” Vitell said.  The company bases its wind power investments on electricity
price forecasts for the next 20 years. “Here, we maintain a
stable view, although technological developments are so rapid
that it could be worth delaying some projects to wait for new
and better types of turbines,” Vitell said.  Finland ’s biggest utility, Fortum said in October that it
will no longer attempt to build wind turbines in Finland, due to
cumbersome licensing that has thwarted its projects so far.  “Winning licensing approval is a huge challenge for us
also, but it’s not a make-or-break obstacle,” Vitell said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Torsten Fagerholm in Helsinki at 
 tfagerholm@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  