-- Vente-Privee Says U.S. Venture With Amex Is Hampered by Outlets
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2012-12-13T14:08:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/vente-privee-says-u-s-venture-with-amex-is-hampered-by-outlets.html
Vente-Privee.com , the European
online retailer that runs a U.S. site with  American Express Co. (AXP) ,
said the proliferation of fashion outlets across America is
challenging the company’s growth.  Vente-Privee, which plies discounted high-end fashion, wine
and Iggy Pop albums to its 17 million European members, began
operating in the U.S. a year ago and is finding it difficult
competing with discounted brands at outlets as well as the
immediacy in which Americans expect delivery.  “The market is not very easy because almost all the brands
produce inventories for the outlets,” Vente-Privee founder
Jacques-Antoine Granjon said in an interview today in  London .
“I don’t wear Ralph Lauren because I know you can buy  Ralph
Lauren  for $10 at any outlet.”  Vente-Privee’s average two-to-three week delivery times are
also longer than U.S. customers expect because the Paris-based
company doesn’t have inventory, Granjon said.  While Granjon is banking on the American pastime of
shopping to boost revenue and fuel expansion, business has been
somewhat hampered because fashion and goods are often on sale
there, compared with  Europe  where retailers are typically only
allowed to sell at discounts a few times a year. It’s also a
crowded market, Granjon said, with competition from companies
like Gilt Groupe Inc. and Rue La La as well as Amazon.com Inc.  ‘Takes Time’  “This kind of story takes time and we have to focus more
on real success which is the relationship with brands and
offering brands that may not be at the outlets,” the long-
haired, jeans-wearing founder said, adding there were no plans
to quit the U.S. market.  The U.S site had sales of $20 million to $25 million in its
first year, he said.  For now, Vente-Privee, which gets 80 percent of its
business from  France  and is projecting 1.3 billion euros ($1.7
billion) in revenue for 2012, is focusing on Europe. It’s
present in eight European countries and Granjon said he’s
concentrating on sales in Italy, Spain, Germany and the U.K.  The company is 20 percent owned by Summit Partners and
there are no plans to take it public or seek acquisitions,
Granjon said. Top brands sold on the site include Disney,
Camper, Desigual, Diesel and Triumph.  Granjon’s also focusing more on the  music industry  and has
plans to start selling more CDs, concert tickets and even
sponsoring tours. He also wants to premiere more albums on his
site, like the album launch he did in May with Iggy Pop. Iggy
sold 20,000 records through the site, Granjon said.  “Music is emotional and we started music because it fed
our brand and it’s about a culture,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  