-- Viacom Ordered to Give Up Claims to Harmonix Deal Funds
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-12-13T01:24:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/viacom-ordered-to-give-up-claims-to-harmonix-deal-funds.html
Viacom Inc. (VIAB) , owner of MTV,
Nickelodeon and  Comedy Central , must allow $12 million to be
paid to former investors in  Harmonix Music Systems Inc. , maker
of the video game “ Rock Band ,” as part of a buyout, a judge
ruled.  Viacom executives should allow the funds, set aside during
the media company’s $175 million acquisition of Harmonix, to be
turned over to a representative for ex-Harmonix shareholders,
Delaware Chancery Court Judge Leo Strine concluded today. Viacom
bought Harmonix in 2006 to acquire rights to the  Rock Band  game,
which features a guitar simulator and came on the market a year
after the acquisition.  Viacom sought access to the $12 million to indemnify the
media conglomerate for the costs of defending patent-
infringement lawsuits over the game, in which players assume the
identity of rock stars and perform for crowds. The purchase
agreement set aside the funds in case problems with the deal
cropped up, Strine said.  Harmonix officials never agreed to indemnify Viacom
“against losses arising out of infringements of intellectual
property rights that took place at the time of Rock Band’s
publication in 2007,” Strine said in his 21-page decision.  Jeremy Zweig, a spokesman for New York-based Viacom, said
there were several disputes over the six-year-old acquisition
still outstanding.  Deal Disputes  “There are a series of disputed issues between the parties
and this is just one element of the disagreement,” Zweig said
in an e-mailed statement today.  Viacom Inc.’s MTV unit bought Harmonix, a Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based developer of music-themed video games such
as “ Guitar Hero ,” in 2006 to expand its interactive and
digital music businesses.  In games such as Guitar Hero and Rock Band, players assume
the identity of a musician and play along with recorded music
using a guitar simulator. Players progress through the game by
appearing in larger venues.  In December 2010, Viacom sold the Harmonix unit, which had
been losing money, to New York-based investment company Columbus
Nova LLC in a deal the Hollywood Reporter newspaper said was
 valued  at $150 million.  As part of the 2006 buyout agreement, Viacom and Harmonix
executives agreed to set aside $12 million to indemnify Viacom
for “losses arising out of breach of representations and
warranties made by Harmonix,” Strine noted in his ruling.  The money was to be held in escrow for 18 months and if
Viacom didn’t lodge legitimate indemnification claims, it would
be dispersed to Harmonix’s former stockholders, the judge said.  Legal Fees  Viacom officials requested indemnification for losses tied
to defending patent claims over Rock Band, which was still in
development when Harmonix was acquired, Strine said. Company
officials said they paid out $28 million in legal fees defending
against intellectual-property claims over the game, the judge
said.  Viacom hired lawyers to defend the company against claims
by companies such as  Activision Blizzard (ATVI)  Inc., the largest
video-game publisher,  Konami Digital Entertainment Co. (9766)  and
Gibson Guitar Corp. over the game.  Gibson, the closely held maker of B.B. King’s “ Lucille ”
and Jimmy Page’s “ Les Paul ” guitars, sued Viacom and Harmonix
in 2008. Nashville-based Gibson claimed the video game infringed
a patent covering a way of using a musical instrument to take
part in a simulated concert.  Representatives of Harmonix’s former stockholders refused
to honor the indemnification request, saying it wasn’t based on
losses covered by the acquisition agreement.  When Viacom officials refused to agree to allow the $12
million to be paid to ex-Harmonix investors, lawyers for the
shareholders sued in Delaware.  Payout Approved  Strine concluded that Viacom’s indemnification claims
weren’t viable and ordered the media company to allow the money
to be paid to former Harmonix shareholders.  “There is no reason why the sellers would have indemnified
Viacom for infringements of intellectual property rights arising
out of Harmonix’s actions at the time the sellers no longer
controlled Harmonix,” the judge said.  The case is Winshall v. Viacom International Inc., CA 6074-
CS,  Delaware  Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at
   jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  