-- Virus Returns at Menopause for Women of Sexual Revolution
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-12-13T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/virus-returns-at-menopause-for-women-of-sexual-revolution.html
Signs of the cancer-causing  human
papilloma virus  in women near or at menopause may be a
reawakened dormant infection, suggesting a risk for women who
came of age in the “sexual revolution” in the 1960s and 70s.  About 77 percent of the infections were detected in women
who reported five or more sexual partners in their lifetime,
according to a study in the  Journal of Infectious Diseases . The
findings released today suggest that reactivation of the
sexually transmitted virus may increase around age 50 and be
responsible for more later-life infections than new ones,
researchers said.  The data raises a new concern for women now entering
menopause, suggesting a significantly higher risk for HPV
infections than those of the previous generation, researchers
said. The findings may mean that women need to continue routine
screening after age 40, said  Patti Gravitt , one of the study
authors.  “If we confirm this, we may want to re-evaluate our
screening strategies and confirm they’re sufficient,” said
Gravitt, an associate professor at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg
School of  Public Health , in a telephone interview. “If
populations change their sexual behaviors, that will contribute
to how we see age-specific HPV prevalence.”  HPV is found in about a quarter of teenage girls and about
half of women 20 to 24, according to a 2007 study in the Journal
of the  American Medical Association . There isn’t a good test for
men. Previous studies have found that the virus isn’t detected
in samples after about two years.  Weakening Immunity  The immune system may be controlling it, Gravitt said. If
the immune system weakens, as it does with age, the virus can
come back.  HPV is linked  to head and neck, cervical, vulvar,
vaginal, penile and anal cancer, and is the most common sexually
transmitted disease in the U.S.  The first vaccine to prevent HPV infection,  Merck & Co. (MRK) ’s
Gardasil, was approved in 2006 in the U.S. and is recommended to
prevent cervical cancer in girls and women 9 to 26 years old.
It’s also approved to prevent genital warts and anal cancer in
boys and men of the same ages.  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s HPV vaccine
Cervarix was approved in 2009 for preventing cervical cancer in
females 9 to 25.  The reactivation of the infection seems similar to that of
the varicella zoster virus that causes chickenpox. The virus can
lie dormant in the bodies of people who were infected as
children, then come raging back as  shingles  later in life, the
authors wrote. That may be what’s happening with these women
around menopause, said the study authors.  Age Changes  Though it’s not clear why the infection comes back,
scientists suspect it may be due to age-related changes in the
immune system, according to an editorial written by Darron Brown
and Bree Weaver, doctors at the Indiana University School of
Medicine in Indianapolis.  In today’s study, about 850 women ages 35 through 60 were
receiving  cervical cancer screening  from 2008 to 2011. Those who
reported a new sexual partner within the six months before the
screening had HPV more often; however, they represented only
about 3 percent of the women in the sample.  The rest of the HPV infections, about 90 percent, were
detected in women who’d had more than one lifetime sexual
partner.  HPV infection rates declined with age only among 50-plus
women with fewer than 5 lifetime sex partners. That suggests
that the HPV is being reactivated after 50 years, and the bulk
of infections detected then aren’t new.  “Women we’ve observed in the last 20 years of screening
have lower rates than those who are currently entering
menopause, because they may be entering menopause with latent
infections,” said Gravitt. “You can’t reactivate something you
never had. My mother’s generation entered with a lot less HPV
and had fewer consequences of reactivation.”  Michael Bloomberg ,  New York ’s mayor and the founder and
majority owner of Bloomberg LP, the parent of  Bloomberg News , is
an alumnus and benefactor of  Johns Hopkins University . Bloomberg
School of Public Health is named in his honor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  