-- Voters Throw Bums In While Holding Congress in Disdain
-- B y   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2012-12-13T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/voters-throw-bums-in-while-disdaining-congress-bgov-barometer.html
Nine in 10 members of the U.S. House
and Senate who sought new terms in office this year were
successful, improving their record for re-election even as
public approval of Congress sank to all-time lows.  The BGOV Barometer shows that 90 percent of House members
and 91 percent of senators who sought re-election in 2012 were
successful, exceeding the incumbent re-election rates of 2010,
when 85 percent of House members and 84 percent of senators
seeking re-election were successful. For senators, this year’s
re-election percentage was the highest since 2004.  Voters were more likely to return their own representatives
to office even though the public had a dim view of the
legislative branch as a whole. Congress had a 21 percent
approval rating on Oct. 15-16 after reaching all-time lows of 10
percent in February and August, according to Gallup polls. Just
10 percent of Americans said that members of Congress have high
or very high honesty and ethical standards, according to  Gallup
data  for Nov. 26-29.  “It wasn’t a ‘throw the bums out’ election, it was a
‘throw the bums in’ election,” John J. Pitney Jr., a professor
at  Claremont McKenna College  in Claremont,  California , said in
an interview.  2010 Losses  In the 435-member House, 391 members sought new terms and
351 were re-elected. In the Senate, 21 of 23 senators seeking to
extend their tenure were successful.  The results contrast with 2010, when more than 50 Democrats
lost in a Republican wave that formed at the midpoint of
President  Barack Obama ’s first term.  The incumbent re-election success rate would have exceeded
90 percent if not for redistricting, the once-per-decade process
of reshaping district boundaries to reflect population shifts.
Redistricting forces incumbents to run against one another or
seek re-election in unfamiliar terrain.  Of the 40 House members who were defeated in the primaries
or in the Nov. 6 general election, 13 lost to other House
members who were seeking the same districts. This total includes
Jeff Landry, a first-term Republican from  Louisiana  unseated by
four-term Republican Charles Boustany in a Dec. 8 runoff.  Other House members lost to challengers in reconfigured
districts where the incumbents weren’t well-known. Tim Holden, a
10-term Democrat from  Pennsylvania , lost to lawyer Matt Cartwright in an April primary after Republican legislators
redrew his district such that 80 percent of residents were new
to Holden.  Brown’s Defeat  In the Senate, which isn’t subject to redistricting,
Republican  Scott Brown  of  Massachusetts  was the only member of
the chamber unseated on Nov. 6, tying a post-World War II low of
one senator losing in the general election. Richard G. Lugar, an
Indiana Republican, was beaten in the primary election. The
other 21 senators who wanted new terms were successful.  Incumbent re-election rates usually exceed 90 percent in
the House. The rate was 94 percent both in 2006 and 2008,
according to the reference work “Vital Statistics on American
Politics.”  Incumbents have institutional and political advantages that
they can bring to bear to win elections. They have large staffs
that cater to constituents’ needs, creating an image of
responsiveness that can pay political dividends.  Incumbents dominate fundraising because they win more
frequently than they lose and also sit on committees and cast
votes that are important to companies that have business before
Congress. And only a few dozen draw top-flight opposition.  During the 2012 election, an improving economy may have
made voters even less likely to reject incumbents, including
Obama, who benefited from a perception that conditions were
getting better. The economy added 521,000 jobs in the quarter
ended Sept. 30, growing at a 2.7 percent rate. The unemployment
 rate  fell to 7.9 percent in October from 9.8 percent in November
2010, the most recent election before Nov. 6.  “In situations like that, people tend to dance with the
one they brung,” Pitney said. “We saw that in the presidential
race and in both chambers of Congress.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Jeanne
Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net  