-- Web Groups Reject UN Committee Vote on Internet Policies
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-12-13T08:09:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/web-groups-reject-un-committee-vote-on-internet-policies.html
Organizations representing  Internet
companies (MOX)  came out against a provisional vote by a United
Nations agency discussing updates to global telecommunications
rules, saying it may lead to Web regulation.  The International Telecommunications Union, which has said
it won’t pass rules that would expand the its power over the
Internet, took a non-binding vote during a conference in Dubai
to gauge support for a resolution to foster growth of the Web.  The survey at the World Conference on International
Telecommunications was intended to “sound the temperature of
the room,” and wasn’t a formal vote, Chairman Mohammed Nasser
Al-Ghanim, who called for the poll, said today at the session.
The Internet Association, whose members include  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,
 Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) ,  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) , Amazon.com Inc. and other Web-based
companies, said it interpreted the show of hands as a step
toward more government control of the Internet.  The association “is strongly opposed to ITU efforts to
regulate the Internet, and urges member states to ensure it is
not included in the final treaty text,” the lobbying group said
in a statement. “We urge the Internet community to join
together to stop this imminent threat to Internet freedom.”  The Internet Society, a separate public-policy organization
backed by companies including Google,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and
 Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  that lobbies for an “open”
Internet, called the ballot “a disappointing development.”  Regulatory Dispute  The U.S., Canada, the U.K. and a number of other
delegations have said they will reject any measure that attempts
to regulate the Internet. Representatives from Russia, China and
several countries in the  Middle East  have pushed for more
sovereign control over domain names, spam blocking and other
Web-related issues.  Countries supporting rules that would control some aspects
of the Internet, including Saudi Arabia, have complained during
the plenaries that governments such as the U.S. aren’t making
enough compromises in the negotiations.  Al-Ghanim said the proposal was a hard-fought compromise
over an issue which has delayed a  conference  decision on
updating the ITU’s 24-year-old rules for international
regulation of telecommunications networks.  “I brought it to this meeting, but I have to say there is
a group that was basically walking out of this compromise one
after one,” Al-Ghanim said. “I’m trying to make progress. I’m
trying to help everybody.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in Dubai at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  