-- Wholesale Prices in U.S. Fell More Than Forecast in November
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-12-13T13:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/wholesale-prices-in-u-s-fell-more-than-forecast-in-november.html
Wholesale prices in the U.S. fell
more than forecast in November, reflecting the biggest drop in
the cost of energy since March 2009.  The producer price index declined 0.8 percent last month,
the most since May, after falling 0.2 percent in October, the
Labor Department reported today in  Washington . The  median 
estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 74 economists called for a 0.5
percent decrease. The  core  measure, which excludes volatile food
and energy, increased 0.1 percent after falling 0.2 percent.  Cooling global economies along with a lack of fiscal
clarity in the U.S. that’s slowed corporate demand are keeping a
lid on inflation. With price pressure limited, Federal Reserve
policy makers yesterday said they would expand monetary stimulus
aimed at spurring growth and reducing unemployment.  “Inflation is not an issue,” Neil Dutta, U.S. economist
at Renaissance Macro Research LLC in New York, said before the
report. “If you look at wage growth, it’s still very weak. If
you look at lending, it’s also still very weak.”  Economists’ estimates for producer prices ranged from a
decline of 1 percent to an increase of 0.2 percent. Core
wholesale prices were projected to rise 0.1 percent, the
Bloomberg survey showed.  Other reports today showed a decline in jobless claims last
week to the lowest level since Oct. 6 and a rebound in retail
sales in November.  Compared with the same month a year ago, companies paid 1.5
percent more for goods, after a 2.3 percent year-over-year rise
in October. The core index increased 2.2 percent in the 12
months ended in November following a 2.3 percent gain.  Cheaper Fuel  Wholesale fuel costs slumped 4.6 percent from the prior
month. Diesel prices were down 11 percent and gasoline dropped
10.1 percent, the biggest decreases since March 2009.  The cost of finished consumer foods climbed 1.3 percent.  Expenses for intermediate goods decreased 1.2 percent, also
the most since March 2009, and those for crude goods rose 0.1
percent in November.  The cost of passenger cars climbed 0.5 percent and light
trucks advanced 0.2 percent. Prices for railroad cars and parts
jumped 3.8 percent in November, the most since December 2004.  The Fed yesterday for the first time also linked the
outlook for its main interest rate to unemployment and
inflation. Rates will stay low “at least as long” as the
jobless rate remains above 6.5 percent and if inflation is
projected to be no more than 2.5 percent, the Federal Open
Market Committee said in a statement.  Fed’s Bernanke  “Longer-term inflation expectations continue to be well
anchored,” Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said at a
press conference.  Producer prices are one of three monthly inflation gauges
reported by the Labor Department.  Import prices  dropped in
November for the first time in four months on cheaper crude oil
and business equipment.  The cost of living index, the broadest of the three
measures, fell in November for the first time since May,
according the Bloomberg survey before tomorrow’s figures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  