-- With Steinberg’s Death, U.S. Business Lost an Archetype
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   M a n u s
-- 2012-12-13T19:06:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/with-steinberg-s-death-u-s-business-lost-an-archetype.html
Saul Steinberg, one of the
high-flying corporate raiders of the postwar U.S., who died
last week, led the way for a generation of aggressive
financiers. He was from the start a canny investor with
seemingly unlimited reserves of adrenaline.  And before the giants of private equity popularized
leveraged buyouts in the public imagination, there was Saul
Philip Steinberg: archetype.  Steinberg’s acquisitive lifestyle in the 1980s would
set  New York  a-chatter, and his appetitive investing
behavior and outsider’s audacity would help shape the
course of American business.  A 1986 humor book titled “How to Be a Mogul”
identified Steinberg as an example of a breed known as “The
Great White Mogul, A.K.A.: Jaws (Nicknames: the Liquidator,
the Prowler, the Raider).” The book described the Great
White as: “Small for his size, but no anchovy, this wily
fish preys on larger members of its own species, devouring
Mogul empires, firing management, and dissolving company
assets into hard currency.”  It continued: “Between meals, Jaws’ cheeks appear
deceptively flaccid, but while engaged in a ‘hostile
takeover’ his powerful mandibles fill with tough, folksy
wit, swelling at times to such a great size he must conceal
them behind banks of telephones and dummy corporations to
prevent enemies from spotting him and devouring him first
or to keep fans from mobbing him.”  A Shark  Perhaps most interesting about Great Whites was that
“as a rule” they “did not set out to be sharks, just went
with the flow.” That wasn’t Steinberg: He really did want
to be a shark in the world of finance.  Steinberg was born in  Brooklyn  and grew up on  Long
Island . He went to the  University of Pennsylvania ’s Wharton
School, and he graduated in 1959 with a bachelor’s degree
in economics and a big idea. Sensing the importance of the
coming information era, he noticed that computers were
still too expensive for companies to buy; that’s why
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  rented and serviced
them through expensive four-year leases.  In 1961, at age 22, he borrowed $25,000 from his uncle
and his father, who ran a rubber-products manufacturer.
They created the Ideal Leasing Co., which would later
become Leasco Data Processing Equipment Co. (his father and
uncle were partners).  According to  the Philadelphia
Inquirer magazine, Steinberg purchased IBM’s “used
computers after the leases expired, re-leasing them to
smaller companies at more affordable rates, and extending
IBM’s four-year equipment depreciation charge to an
additional eight years, long enough to claim generous
federal tax benefits.”  Steinberg hadn’t even turned 30 when, in 1968, Leasco
acquired -- despite intense opposition from its officers
and directors -- a staid $700 million fire-and-casualty
underwriter called Reliance Insurance Co. (code name:
“Raquel”). The company would later make Steinberg a vast
fortune.  The tumultuous Leasco-Reliance merger attracted the
attention of two congressional subcommittees, focusing on
antitrust issues. Steinberg now had a larger audience, and
the business press began to pay a lot more attention to
this brash invader. In 1967, Merrill Lynch included Leasco
as one of 50 major tech stocks, along with IBM and  General
Electric Co. (GE)   Greenmailing  In 1969, Steinberg almost became a household name when
he scandalized the establishment by making a bid to acquire
Chemical Bank of New York, the old-line predecessor of
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and the nation’s sixth-largest bank.
In 1984, he bought shares in Walt Disney Co. in a hostile-
takeover bid. Although Disney management retained control
of the company, Steinberg succeeded in forcing the giant to
buy back his shares at a premium in exchange for walking
away -- a practice that became known as greenmailing, which
he learned to perfect. He also greenmailed Lomas &
Nettleton Financial Corp., Quaker State Oil Refining and
Chris-Craft Industries.  According to Forbes magazine, Steinberg’s personal
wealth at one point exceeded $600 million. But he fell
short of his outsized ambitions. In his early days, he told
the financial writer Dan Dorfman, “You watch: like the
Rockefellers, I’ll own the world. I could even be the first
Jewish president.”  In the 1990s, however, things took a turn for the
worse. Steinberg suffered a stroke. Reliance soon
foundered. Steinberg was forced to sell assets, including
an enormous Park Avenue apartment, a collection of  Old
Masters  and,  famously , a $2 million commode. As his
finances and personal life spiraled into Shakespearean
decline -- his own mother even filed a lawsuit against him
(later settled) -- he came to embody a less savory
corporate archetype that would became all too familiar in
the years to come.  Jaws, in the end, succumbed to his own appetites.  (Elizabeth Manus is a writer living in New York. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  Read more from Echoes  online .  To contact the writer of this post: Elizabeth Manus at
 elizabeth.manus@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy
Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  