-- Wynn Resorts Seeks to Remove Okada From Company’s Board
-- B y   A n t h o n y   P a l a z z o
-- 2012-12-13T23:42:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/wynn-resorts-seeks-to-remove-okada-from-board-of-casino-company.html
Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN) , the casino
company controlled by Chairman  Stephen Wynn , sought to remove
Japanese billionaire Kazuo Okada from its board, the latest
volley in a feud between the two former partners.  Wynn plans a special shareholder meeting to vote on Okada’s
removal, the Las Vegas-based company said today in a statement.
A two-thirds vote is required to remove Okada, whose shares were
seized by the company this year.  The company also said it will reduce the number of board
members to nine from 12 and increase the ratio of independent
directors. If Okada is removed, the total will be eight.  “By streamlining the board and eliminating an unsuitable
director, the company will be well positioned to capitalize on
the enormous opportunities in the market and execute our
ambitious expansion plans,” Wynn said in the statement.  Wynn climbed 0.7 percent to $114.22 at the close in New
York, before the announcement. The shares have gained 3.4
percent this year.  Okada, the 70-year-old chairman of Tokyo-based pachinko
machine maker  Universal Entertainment Corp. (6425) , and Wynn, also 70,
have been battling for more than a year. Wynn Resorts declined
to invest in a Philippine casino project championed by Okada,
who voted against Wynn Resorts’ $135 pledge to a Macau
university foundation last year.  Wynn Resorts hired former FBI Director  Louis Freeh  to
investigate Okada’s dealings with public officials. It seized
Okada’s $1.9 billion stake in the company in February at a 30
percent discount to its market value.  Philippines Casino  Okada’s $2 billion plan to build a casino in Manila gained
a partner today in billionaire John Gokongwei, whose  Robinsons
Land Corp. (RLC)  signed an agreement with Universal Entertainment.  No date was announced for the special meeting on Okada. In
other changes to the board, directors Russell Goldsmith and
 Allan Zeman  stepped down to devote time to their other
businesses, according to the company. Wynn Macau Ltd. Chief
Operating Officer Linda Chen and Wynn Resorts operating chief
Marc Schorr also resigned to reduce the number of insiders.  The company added Jay Hagenbuch, chairman of real estate
investment companies M&H Realty Partners and WestLand Capital
Partners.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony Palazzo in  Los Angeles  at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  