-- Yahoo Names Max Levchin as Director as Kenny and Smith Exit
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2012-12-13T21:15:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/yahoo-names-max-levchin-as-director-kenny-smith-to-exit-board.html
Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) , the largest U.S. Web
portal, appointed Yelp Inc. Chairman Max Levchin to its board,
as Chief Executive Officer  Marissa Mayer  works to restore
management stability and reverse three years of revenue
declines.  Brad Smith,  Intuit Inc. (INTU) ’s CEO, and David Kenny, former
president of Akamai Technologies Inc., will step down from the
 board , effective immediately, leaving Yahoo with 11 directors,
the company said in a statement today. Levchin is also co-
founder of EBay Inc.’s PayPal unit and formerly vice president
of engineering at  Google Inc. (GOOG)   As Yahoo’s fifth CEO in four years, Mayer is trying give
the company credibility after management changes and lost
advertising revenue, as users migrated to Google and  Facebook
Inc. (FB)  Yahoo’s share of display ads, including banners, will be
9.3 percent this year in the U.S., down from 11 percent last
year, researcher EMarketer Inc. estimates.  “The transition on the Yahoo board has a lot to do with
where Yahoo needs to focus,” said  Jordan Rohan , analyst at
Stifel Nicolaus & Co. Inc. in New York. “Max is really smart.
He has great mobile and app knowledge.”  Sunnyvale, California-based Yahoo has climbed 23 percent
since Mayer, a former Google executive, was named CEO on July
16. The stock fell less than 1 percent to $19.35 at the close in
New York.  Fantastic Future  Levchin, who started PayPal more than a decade ago with
Peter Thiel, has plenty of management experience. He’s a serial
entrepreneur and angel investor who sits on the boards of Kaggle
Inc. and Evernote Corp. Levchin said he got a glimpse of the
“fantastic future” of the Web during college in 1993, just as
Yahoo was getting off the ground.  “Yahoo! showed me that computer geeks can start companies
that create that future,” Levchin said in a  blog post . “I’d
love to do my part in helping the company that inspired me.”  Mayer said in the statement that she admired Levchin
“throughout my career for his phenomenal sense for great
products and keen focus on user experiences.”  “I’m confident that his strong product and technology
expertise will be a tremendous asset to Yahoo!,” Mayer said in
the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  