-- Yen Gains From Almost Nine-Month Low; Euro Advances
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-12-14T22:03:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/yen-touches-9-month-low-on-election-before-tankan-report.html
The yen strengthened from an almost
nine-month low against the dollar as technical indicators showed
the decline was overdone before elections on Dec. 16 where
 Japan ’s opposition leader Shinzo Abe is projected to win.  The euro reached the highest in seven months versus the
dollar as preset buy orders were triggered. The Japanese
currency pared a weekly loss as Abe has called on the  Bank of
Japan (8301)  to provide “unlimited easing” and set an inflation
target of at least 2 percent. The dollar fell against higher-
yielding counterparts after inflation was lower than expected,
signaling the central bank’s stimulus isn’t inflationary.  “With the big event risk coming up over the weekend with
the Japanese election, with a large portion of the speculative
community seemingly long dollar-yen, this could be a bit of
profit-taking ahead of that event,” said Brian Daingerfield, a
currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS
Securities unit in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  The yen gained 0.2 percent to 83.52 per dollar at 5:02 p.m.
in  New York , after falling to the weakest level since March 21.
It fell 0.5 percent to 109.90 per euro. The shared currency
gained 0.7 percent to $1.3163, reaching the strongest level
since May 4.  Futures Trade  Futures traders  added to bets  the yen will fall against the
dollar in the week ended Dec. 4, pushing net-shorts to 94,401,
the most since 2007, according to Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data.  Net-wagers the Australian dollar  will rise  against the
greenback rose to a record 103,376 contracts last week, while
speculators also  pushed  net-longs for the Mexican peso to an
all-time high 149,271 contracts.  Losses for the yen may be limited against the dollar and
the euro as technical indicators show the yen’s decline may have
been too quick. The 14-day relative strength index against the
euro fell to 25.7 and the gauge declined to 26.5 versus the
dollar. A reading below 30 indicates an asset may be oversold.  The yen will trade at 85 versus the dollar at the end of
2013, according to the median of 57 estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey.  Strategists have lowered projections for the yen against
the euro for the first quarter of 2013 by 3.8 percent since
October. That is the largest reduction behind an 8 percent
reduction in forecasts for the South African rand versus the
dollar, among currency pairs tracked by Bloomberg.  Krona Falls  Sweden’s krona weakened against most of its 16 major
counterparts after Finance Minister  Anders Borg  said
unemployment was likely to keep increasing.  The krona depreciated 0.6 percent to 8.7885 per euro after
sliding to the weakest since June 29.  The dollar weakened against major peers after consumer
prices in the U.S. fell more than forecast last month, a sign
the  Federal Reserve ’s bond-buying program hasn’t caused
inflation.  The 0.3 percent decrease in the consumer-price index was
the first drop since May and followed a 0.1 percent gain the
prior month, the Labor Department reported today in  Washington .
The median estimate of 80 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
called for a 0.2 percent drop. The core index, which excludes
volatile food and energy costs, climbed less than projected.  “One would expect the knee-jerk reaction to be dollar-
negative,” said  Andrew Wilkinson , chief economic strategist at
 Miller Tabak  in New York. “CPI underscores the Fed’s philosophy
that quantitative easing is not inflationary therefore one could
predict the Fed would do more.”  Dollar Measure  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which tracks the greenback against the
currencies of six major trading partners, declined 0.5 percent
to 79.550.  The euro extended its gain versus the dollar after rising
above the December high of $1.3127, triggering automatic orders,
known as stops, at pre-determined prices, according to Sebastien Galy, a senior foreign-exchange strategist at Societe Generale
SA in New York.  The euro touched an eight-month high versus the yen after
EU finance ministers meeting overnight in Brussels agreed to put
the  European Central Bank  in charge of all euro-area lenders in
a deal that paves the way for the currency bloc’s firewall fund
to provide direct bailouts to banks.  “We’ve agreed on the key points to create a European bank
supervision that’s supposed to start in 2014,” German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said after the meeting. The
agreement opens the way for negotiations to take place with the
European Parliament.  The shared currency has gained 1.5 percent in the past
month, the second best performer of the 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes
after  New Zealand ’s dollar. The yen was the worst performer,
tumbling 6.4 percent, and the  U.S. dollar  fell 2.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  