-- Zuma Set to Win ANC Term as Villagers Bemoan His Mansion
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2012-12-14T16:22:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/zuma-set-to-win-anc-term-as-villagers-bemoan-his-mansion.html
Zama Dube peers across the grassy
hills of her village in Nxamalala, KwaZulu-Natal, at the newly-
built houses on the sprawling private estate of South African
President  Jacob Zuma .  “Many people don’t have shelter or food, but he’s busy
building his own house,” Dube, 21, said in a Dec. 10 interview
from her hut, where holes in the corrugated-iron roof let
through rain during summer thunderstorms. “Jacob Zuma has done
nothing for me. I am without a job.”  Zuma, 70, is set to win a second term as leader of the
 African National Congress  next week at a time when the ruling
party is facing allegations of corruption, faction fighting and
a loss of credibility among its mainly black, impoverished
supporters. Claims from opposition political parties that state
funds were used to refurbish his homestead in Nkandla are the
latest in a string of scandals that have dogged Zuma’s political
career and undermined his leadership of  Africa ’s largest
 economy .  “Nkandla is a sign and a symbol that Zuma has forgotten
the poor,” Adam Habib, a political analyst at the University of
Johannesburg, said in a Dec. 12 phone interview. “The levels of
corruption are frightening people.”  ‘Excessive’ Spending  The Johannesburg-based  City Press  newspaper reported on
Nov. 24 the state spent 248 million rand ($28.7 million) on
refurbishing Zuma’s private home, which includes a helipad and
soccer fields. The government hasn’t confirmed the costs.
Responding to lawmakers’ questions last month, Zuma said his
family paid for the upgrades, while the state covered the costs
of security measures he hadn’t ordered.  Zuma “needs to be criticized” over the spending at
Nkandla, Bheki Sibiya, chief executive officer of the
Johannesburg-based Chamber of Mines, told reporters on Dec. 4.  “It is excessive,” Sibiya said. “For anybody it is
excessive and for them not to explain it, it is wrong.”  Zuma may have the support of about 70 percent of ANC
members that will meet in the central city of Bloemfontein from
Dec. 16 to 20 to elect new leaders, according to results from
provincial nominations that took place in the past two weeks.
His deputy,  Kgalema Motlanthe , 63, is the only nominated
challenger so far.  Investor Confidence  Securing the top post will pave the way for Zuma to win a
second term as president in general elections scheduled for
2014. The 100-year-old ANC has won about two-thirds support in
every vote since the first all-race ballot in 1994.  Zuma is faced with having to revive investor confidence in
an economy battered by a wave of strikes, sliding export demand
and two credit-rating downgrades. At the same time, he’s pledged
to take “radical” steps to cut a 26 percent jobless rate and
reduce poverty.  The rand has weakened 6.7 percent against the dollar since
the start of mining strikes on Aug. 10, the biggest decline of
16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg. It was trading at
8.6220 per dollar as of 6:12 p.m. in Johannesburg. The cost to
insure against a default on South African bonds over five years
increased 14 basis points to 144 in the period, indicating
deteriorating risk perception among investors.  The  Democratic Alliance , the main opposition party, said on
Nov. 15 the government paid for 31 new buildings at Zuma’s home,
six of which cost 8 million rand each, and put air-conditioning
units in all of them at a cost of 1.5 million rand. It also
spent 2.3 million rand on elevators for Zuma’s bunker and built
a visitors’ center, gymnasium and guest rooms at his homestead,
it said.  Combating HIV  The ANC voted Zuma as party head in 2007 as an alternative
to his predecessor  Thabo Mbeki , who was criticized by labor
unions for ignoring their concerns. Zuma’s consultative approach
has won him support with union allies and party members.  “He stands for unity in the country and the party,”
Nonkululeko Runeni, a delegate to next week’s conference, said
in a Nov. 30 interview in Alice in Eastern Cape province. “He
cares about the people. He focuses on developing the country.”  Zuma’s administration has had success in helping to combat
HIV in a nation where about 11 percent of the population are
infected with the virus that causes AIDS. The number of people
receiving treatment at public hospitals has increased 75 percent
to 1.7 million over the past two years.  Police Graft  That’s been overshadowed by Zuma’s flawed appointments in
the judiciary and police service. The  Constitutional Court  in
October ruled Zuma’s appointment of Menzi Simelane,  South
Africa ’s chief prosecutor, was invalid because of his lack of
experience and because he misrepresented facts in an inquiry
into the conduct of a predecessor. In June, Zuma fired police
chief, Bheki Cele, for his involvement in overpaying for office
leases.  Those decisions were “serious salvos fired at the
foundations of the democratic institutions,” Habib said.  Zuma was already tainted by corruption allegations when he
became president in May 2009, claims that he’s consistently
denied. Prosecutors dropped charges of racketeering, fraud,
 money laundering  and  tax evasion  against him a month before he
took office. Zuma’s financial adviser, Schabir Shaik, had
already been convicted for receiving a bribe on his behalf.  Losing Support  The ANC risks losing support as voters become more
disenchanted with the government, said  Aubrey Matshiqi , a
political analyst at the Helen Suzman Foundation in
Johannesburg. In Zuma’s home village of Nkandla, the ANC lost a
Dec. 5 by-election to its local rival, the Inkatha Freedom
Party.  “Some protest will be registered by those ANC supporters
who will be unhappy if Jacob Zuma is re-elected by the party,”
Matshiqi said in a Dec. 12 phone interview. “There may also be
a swing towards the opposition.”  One of those is Sipho Dyantyi, 28, who works at a building
supplies store in Alice, in the Eastern Cape.  “Nkandla is for himself,” Dyantyi said in a Nov. 29
interview. “It’s like a hotel. We need that money to fix roads
and to build houses. He doesn’t care about others, he’s not the
president of us people, he’s the president for himself.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  