-- ‘Too-Big’ Insurers, Loss Absorbency, SAC: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-08-13T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/-too-big-insurers-loss-absorbency-sac-compliance.html
The Financial Stability Board said
an extended version of its guidance on the resolution of
systemically important banks will apply to non-bank financial
institutions, such as  Allianz SE (ALV)  and other large insurers.  The Basel, Switzerland-based body set up by the Group of 20
nations has developed “annexes” to its advice for local
regulators of financial institutions that aren’t lenders,
according to an e-mailed statement yesterday. The FSB asked for
responses from market participants by Oct. 15.  The FSB, led by Bank of England Governor Mark Carney, is
coordinating the global regulatory response to the worst
financial crisis since the Great Depression to prevent a repeat
of the turmoil that followed the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. and bailout of American International Group Inc.  Last month, the FSB published a list of nine too-big-to-fail insurers, including Allianz,  American International Group
Inc. (AIG) ,  MetLife Inc. (MET) ,  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU)  and  Axa SA. (CS)   The FSB “set out the core elements considered necessary to
make feasible the resolution of financial institutions without
severe systemic disruption and without exposing taxpayers to
losses,” it said yesterday.  Compliance Policy  Derivatives Margin Losses Could Help Save CCPs, Regulators Say  Derivatives traders should be prepared to lose the initial
margin they post at clearinghouses if it’s needed to prevent a
financial crisis, global markets regulators said.  The “margin is likely to constitute a very large pool of
assets which would, if it can be used, provide a high degree of
loss-absorbency” to help stabilize a central counterparty, or
CCP, the International Organization of Securities Commissions
and the  Committee on Payment and Settlement Systems  said in a
joint report published yesterday.  The committee is part of the  Bank for International
Settlements .  The Group of 20 nations has ordered a global overhaul of
rules governing derivatives contracts, mandating the use of CCPs
by traders. Regulators have sought tougher rules for over-the-counter derivatives since the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. and the rescue of American International Group
Inc., two of the largest traders of credit-default swaps.  Clearinghouses such as London’s  LCH.Clearnet Ltd.  and Eurex
Clearing AG operate as central counterparties for every buy and
sell order executed by their members, who are required to post
collateral, reducing the risk that a trader defaults on a deal.  Madrid-based Iosco brings together national market
regulators from more than 100 countries to coordinate rules and
share information.  CIRC Head to Expand Scope of Insurers’ Investments, Caixin Says  The China Insurance Regulatory Commission will expand the
industries in which insurers may invest as debt holders,
Caixin’s New Century magazine reported, citing an interview with
 Xiang Junbo , head of the commission.  CIRC is studying how to set up a fund for insurers to
invest in small companies, Xiang said, according to the Caixin
report. Investments by insurers in local government financing
vehicles are currently less than 200b  yuan , Xiang said in the
magazine interview.  The commission is also studying new rules to govern
Internet insurance operations, Xiang said, according the
magazine.  Compliance Action  Deutsche Bank Said to Face Bafin Call Over Libor Rigging  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  may be told as soon as this month by the
German financial regulator to improve its controls to prevent a
repeat of attempts to manipulate benchmark  interest rates ,
according to a person familiar with the matter.  Bafin is finalizing its first report into the rigging of
Libor and similar benchmarks and will submit it to the
Frankfurt-based lender as soon as this month, said the person,
who asked not to be identified because the review isn’t public.
Bafin will present its findings to Deutsche Bank management,
telling them to adhere to standards set by the regulator, the
person said.  The report is part of a broader investigation by Bafin into
allegations that traders at Deutsche Bank tried to manipulate
rates. Under its rules, Bafin cannot publish the findings or
disclose actions it takes on individual banks without the
lender’s consent. The regulator will oversee how the measures
are implemented.  The move may bring the bank closer to facing fines from
U.S., U.K. and EU regulators, who are waiting on the German
watchdog to finish their reviews.  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc  have paid a total of about $2.5
billion in fines for colluding to rig benchmark interest rates
for profit or to mask their true cost of borrowing.  Bafin is in the final stages of reviewing the report,
compiled by the Bundesbank, Germany’s central bank, on whether
Deutsche Bank’s systems and controls failed to prevent traders
from trying to manipulate rates to benefit their own trades, the
person said.  Bafin’s press office declined to comment.  Christian Streckert, a spokesman for Deutsche Bank,
declined to comment on the report. He said the bank is
cooperating with regulatory investigations and conducting its
own review into the allegations.  “As per the current status of investigations, we can say
that no current or former member of the management board had any
inappropriate involvement in the interbank offered rates matters
under review,” Streckert said. The bank “has also found that
certain employees, acting on their own initiative, engaged in
conduct that falls short of the bank’s standards, and action has
been taken accordingly.”  Bafin has also commissioned an auditor to look into
possible wrongdoing by Deutsche Bank staff and management.  Finra Said to Look Into Analyst Participation in IPO Pitches  Wall Street’s self-regulator is looking into whether
research analysts are participating in pitches to win business
underwriting initial public offerings, according to a person
familiar with the matter.  The  Financial Industry Regulatory Authority  has requested
information from several firms, said the person, who asked not
to be identified because the probe may not result in a formal
investigation. The person didn’t say which firms were queried.  Since the dot-com bust a decade ago, investment bankers
have been restricted from arranging communications between
analysts, who provide recommendations to investors, and the
companies they seek business from. The JOBS Act, passed last
year, loosens those regulations when banks are dealing with
companies with less than $1 billion in annual revenue.  The rules were imposed in 2003 by regulators and by a
settlement between then-New York Attorney General  Eliot Spitzer 
and 10 firms including Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  Spitzer forced the banks to change their practices
after his office obtained internal e-mails from Merrill Lynch &
Co. analysts who privately called dot-com stocks they had
recommended “dogs” and “crap.”  The New York Times reported the Finra inquiry Aug. 11.  Interviews  Holland Says ‘Momentum Is Behind’ JPMorgan, Citigroup  Michael Holland , chairman of Holland & Co., talked about
JPMorgan Chase & Co., the outlook for the banking industry and
investment strategy.  Holland spoke with Sara Eisen, Scarlet Fu and  Tom Keene  on
Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance.”  For the video, click here.  Levitt Says Dodd-Frank Must Be Primary Focus of SEC  Arthur Levitt , former chairman of the Securities and
Exchange Commission, said the “number one priority” of the
agency must be implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act. Levitt
talked with Bloomberg’s Tom Keene on  Bloomberg Radio ’s
“Bloomberg Surveillance.”  For the audio, click here.  Comings and Goings  SAC Parameter Trading Unit Said to Close Amid Insider Probe  SAC Capital Advisors LP, the hedge-fund firm that’s facing
federal insider-trading charges and a money-laundering lawsuit,
shuttered one of its trading units, according to a person with
knowledge of the matter.  Parameter Capital, which was started by Anil Stevens and
Glenn Shapiro three years ago to trade financial stocks, managed
about $300 million, said the person, who asked not to be named
because the information is private. Stevens, 41, plans to start
his own firm and take as many as nine people with him, the
person said. Shapiro won’t be joining Stevens in his new
venture, the person said.  Stevens and Shapiro couldn’t immediately be reached for
comment. Reuters yesterday reported the closing of Parameter.  SAC Capital, run by billionaire  Steven A. Cohen , was
granted court approval last week to continue operating until the
insider-trader cases are resolved. SAC, based in Stamford,
Connecticut, was accused by the U.S. government in an indictment
announced July 25 of engaging in an insider-trading scheme over
more than a decade.  The Parameter unit was based in New York and started in
2010 with 12 employees. Stevens and Shapiro rejoined SAC at that
time after working at Chicago-based hedge-fund firm Balyasny
Asset Management LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  