-- Air India to Lease Airbus A320s to Cut Costs, Win Marketshare
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2013-08-13T11:55:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/air-india-to-lease-airbus-a320s-to-cut-costs-win-marketshare.html
Air  India  Ltd. will add Airbus SAS
A320 planes for the first time in three years as the carrier
bailed out by the government seeks to cut costs and win
marketshare.  The state-owned airline has invited offers from lessors for
as many as  19 A320s  with sharklets on lease for six years,
according to a tender document published on its website. The
carrier last purchased A320s between 2006 and 2010, it said.  Adding new narrow-body planes will help Air India reduce
costs that’s one of the conditions set by the government for
approving a 300 billion rupees ($4.9 billion) bailout through
2020. The Mumbai-based carrier also faces competition from low-cost operators IndiGo that last year became India’s biggest by
marketshare and  AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA)  that’s due to start operations in
the South Asian nation this year.  “Strategically, it’s a good move,” said Mark D. Martin,
chief executive officer at Dubai-based Martin Consulting LLC.
“New planes in the fleet mean lower maintenance costs and a
better product to lure customers.”  The so-called sharklets are wingtips that help boost the
range of single-aisle jets.  Low-cost carriers control more than 60 percent of India’s
domestic skies, according to data available with the Directorate
General of Civil Aviation. Air India, the former monopoly
carrier, had 18.9 percent share of the market in June behind
IndiGo, Jet Airways (India) Ltd. and  SpiceJet Ltd. (SJET)   AirAsia, which in March won an Indian panel’s approval to
form an airline venture that includes the Tata group in the
country, aims to start operations later this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in New Delhi at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  