-- Airlines Stocks Fall as AMR-US Airways Merger Challenged
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2013-08-13T20:59:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/airlines-stocks-fall-as-amr-us-airways-merger-challenged.html
United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  and
 Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  plunged, sending an industry index down the
most in four months, on concern that a U.S. lawsuit to bar the
 AMR Corp (AAMRQ) .- US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  merger imperiled profits.  The U.S. Justice Department’s lawsuit upended analysts’
predictions that carriers would gain greater pricing power once
bankrupt AMR’s American and US Airways combined to create the
world’s largest airline and shrink seating capacity.  “We believe this represents a seminal, negative event for
the US airline industry,”  Jamie Baker , a JPMorgan Chase & Co.
analyst in New York, wrote in a note to clients. “While our
2014 earnings forecasts remain unchanged, we believe a potential
independent AMR will significantly diminish longer-term investor
confidence in the sector.”  United tumbled 7.5 percent to $30.73 at the close in
New York for the biggest decline since June 2012. Delta slid
7.1 percent to $19.55. The 10-carrier Bloomberg U.S. Airlines
Index fell 5.7 percent, the most since April.  US Airways , based in Tempe, Arizona, tumbled 13 percent to
$16.36, the biggest drop in the index and the largest one-day
drop since October 2011.  The drop was even steeper for  shares of AMR , which tumbled
45 percent to $3.17 in the biggest decline since the company’s
November 2011 bankruptcy filing.  Fort Worth , Texas-based AMR had
planned to use the merger to complete its Chapter 11
reorganization and exit court protection.  AMR’s Bonds  The company’s $460 million of 6.25 percent convertible
notes due in October 2014 fell 11.63 cents to 104.5 cents on the
dollar at 4:14 p.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting service of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority. They have risen from 17.75 cents since the AMR’s
bankruptcy filing.  The government’s move “significantly jeopardizes industry
capacity discipline,” JPMorgan’s Baker said, referring to
airlines’ new-found willingness to shrink unprofitable flying
rather than grab market share with money-losing flights.  The  Justice Department  allowed six unprofitable airlines to
merge during the past five years in an effort to cut costs and
end losses. The suit to block the AMR-US Airways combination
follows the Aug. 5 approval by European Union antitrust
authorities after the carriers agreed to cede the right to a
daily round trip between London’s Heathrow Airport, the EU’s
busiest hub, and Philadelphia.  “This transaction would result in consumers paying the
price -- in higher airfares, higher fees and fewer choices,”
U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder said in a statement. “Today’s
action proves our determination to fight for the best interests
of consumers by ensuring robust competition.”  United and Delta now rank first and second in the global
industry’s ranking by traffic following mergers that came after
each reorganized in bankruptcy last decade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in  New York  at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  