-- Alacer Replaces CEO as It Seeks to Sell Australian Gold Mines
-- B y   D a v i d   S t r i n g e r
-- 2013-08-13T00:41:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/alacer-replaces-ceo-as-it-seeks-to-sell-australian-gold-mines.html
Alacer Gold Corp. (ASR) , the third-biggest
gold company traded in  Australia , replaced David Quinlivan as
chief executive officer and said it will mothball its mines
there within 18 months if they aren’t sold.  Chief Financial Officer Rodney P. Antal, took over from
Quinlivan immediately, Englewood, Colorado-based Alacer said
today in a statement.  Alacer, which also mines gold in  Turkey , sold its stake in
an Australian mine in February and is seeking to sell its two
remaining assets there after taking charges of $902 million on
the unit since the last quarter of 2012. Gold producers have
announced writedowns of at least $26 billion over the past two
months as bullion has tumbled 20 percent this year.  “Given the recent volatility in the gold price and the
time taken to secure an acceptable binding offer for the
Australian operations, we have decided to pursue a strategy
aimed at maximizing near-term cash generation,” Antal said in
the statement. The strategy is “likely to lead to both of our
Australian operations being transitioned into care and
maintenance during the next 12-18 months” should there be no
significant increase in gold, Antal said.  Gold for immediate delivery traded at $1,334.61 an ounce at
9:45 a.m. in Sydney. Alacer climbed 4.4 percent to A$2.62 at
10:27 a.m. in Sydney.  Alacer may receive less than A$600 million for the
Higginsville and South Kalgoorlie mines in any sale, Credit
Suisse Group AG analysts led by  Michael Slifirski  wrote in a
note to clients dated June 13.  Possible Buyers  Possible buyers for the South Kalgoorlie mine may include
Zijin Mining Group Co., and La Mancha Resources Inc., which
already acquired Alacer’s stake in the Frog’s Leg joint venture
in Australia, Slifirski wrote.  The sales process “is continuing and discussions with a
number of interested parties are well-advanced,” Alacer said.
Quinlivan had said last week he expected Alacer to announce next
month whether a sale had been agreed.  Alacer reiterated its production guidance for 2013 of
between 168,000 ounces to 187,000 ounces of gold. It said it
would cease almost all exploration activities in Australia and
make additional cuts to mine development at Higginsville.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Stringer in Melbourne at 
 dstringer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  