-- Talking Down Colombian Peso Seen Marking Peak: Market Reversal
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2013-08-13T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/talking-down-colombian-peso-seen-marking-peak-market-reversal.html
Colombia’s peso, the best-performing
currency in  Latin America  this quarter, is poised to reverse as
policy makers call for a weaker  exchange rate , trading patterns
show.  The peso gained 0.9 percent last week to a four-month high
before depreciating 0.2 percent yesterday to 1,876.5 per dollar.
The currency appreciated through its 20-day Bollinger band by
the most since July 17 yesterday, signaling a reversal may be
imminent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Stochastic
oscillators also show the currency is overbought after gaining
2.5 percent since the end of June as oil prices jumped.  Central bank co-Director Carlos Gustavo Cano said Aug. 1
the peso remains as much as 7 percent above its equilibrium, two
weeks after Finance Minister  Mauricio Cardenas  told business
leaders in Medellin that the government of President  Juan Manuel Santos  is “obsessed” with the exchange rate by wanting to keep
it weaker than 1,900. Calls to drive down the peso may grow as
the currency approaches its 100-day moving average of 1,870.64,
according to  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA. (BBVA)   “We’re starting to get to levels that will generate some
resistance,” said  Alejandro Cuadrado , a currency strategist at
BBVA in  New York . “When you go below 1,875, the government
starts talking again. The question is how much the government
will get involved. The president is already calling for the
central bank to maintain rates.”  The central bank cut its  benchmark interest rate  by 2
percentage points in the nine months through March to 3.25
percent to spur economic growth. On July 26, the bank reduced
its growth forecast for 2013 to 4 percent from 4.3 percent.  Nomura’s Call  “Conditions are in place in the economy for the peso to be
weaker,” central bank Governor Jose Dario Uribe said in Bogota
on Aug. 9 as he presented the bank’s quarterly inflation report.  Mario Castro, an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc.,
recommended yesterday that investors increase bets against the
peso in the forwards market. Nomura expects the currency will
weaken to 1,960 per dollar at the end of this year and 2,100 at
the end of 2014. The 8.8 percent rise in  oil prices  that
bolstered the peso during July is ending and faster U.S.
economic growth may prompt the U.S. Federal Reserve to scale
back the unprecedented stimulus that has buoyed demand for
emerging-market assets, Castro said in a note to clients.  Colombia’s oil industry has attracted record levels of
foreign investment over the past decade, increasing output to
more than 1 million barrels per day this year. Crude represented
more than half of the Andean nation’s exports in 2013, according
to data from the central bank.  ‘Less Attractive’  “The conditions are set for a reduction of inflows into
the currency,” Castro said in a phone interview from New York.
“We don’t think productivity in the oil sector will keep
increasing at the pace it has for the past five years and the
likelihood is that oil prices will be stable or decline, so
 Colombia ’s terms of trade will be less attractive.”  The peso is likely to hold on to its gains until next
month, said Gustavo Arteta, a currency strategist at UBS AG in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut .  “The government is caught between a rock and a hard
place,” he said. “It wants the peso to weaken, even the
central bank does, but it has to balance that with the
complaints from the agricultural sector about the cost of
imports. So far the government has been absent.”  He expects it to trade in a range between 1,850 and 1,890
for the rest of August.  Bollinger Band  The peso is still trading weaker than its three-year
average of 1,829.46.  Technical indicators suggest the peso may be changing
course. At yesterday’s strongest level, the peso was 0.3 percent
stronger than the lower limit of the Bollinger Band.  Bollinger Bands, developed by  John Bollinger  in the 1980s,
are used by technical analysts to identify the turning point in
an asset’s trajectory. The limits represent two standard
deviations from the 20-day moving average, implying that the
likelihood of a currency moving outside the band is rare.  The “k-line” of stochastics, which measures current price
relative to highs and lows, fell to 4.79 on Aug. 8, below the
level showing the peso is overbought against the dollar. It re-crossed that threshold yesterday, a sign of an incipient
reversal. The “k-line” also crossed its five-day moving
average.  Cardenas in a May 23 interview said the peso is overvalued
and the currency’s “equilibrium” level is between 1,900 and
1,950. Since taking office in September, Cardenas has blamed the
peso’s strength for the weakness of Colombian industry, which
contracted for six of seven months between November and May.  “If the Colombian peso continues its rally, we’d expect
authorities to start intervening verbally, but our sense is that
the currency is beginning to correct,” Castro said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  