-- AngloGold Bonds Revive Paulson Spinoff Call: South Africa Credit
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2013-08-13T11:23:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/anglogold-bonds-revive-paulson-spinoff-call-south-africa-credit.html
AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) ’s bonds have
plunged as the world’s third-biggest gold producer is weighed
down by its South African operations, reigniting calls from
investors for the miner to spin off its assets in the country.  Yields on AngloGold’s dollar debt due in July 2020 surged
117 basis points since being sold on July 25 to a record 9.59
percent on Aug. 7, according to data on Bloomberg. It’s the
most-traded dollar emerging-market security over the past 10
days, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The average yield on
dollar bonds of emerging-market metals and mining companies rose
18 basis points,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes  show.  AngloGold, South Africa’s biggest gold miner by production,
hasn’t heeded calls to spin off assets in the continent’s
largest economy, which is beset with strikes and higher costs,
adding to margin pressures caused by a 20 percent drop in the
metal’s price in 2013.  Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI)  put most of its South
African mines in a new company in February, a strategy that  John Paulson , whose hedge fund is an investor in AngloGold, has said
the company should copy.  “There has been talk for some time for both these miners
to bring their South African assets separately to the market,”
Cornel Bruhin, who manages $260 million of emerging-market bonds
at MainFirst Schweiz AG in Zurich, said by phone yesterday.
“Gold Fields has done it and it would be credit-positive for
AngloGold.”  Stock Retreat  The company’s stock has declined 50 percent this year,
compared with a 34 percent drop for Gold Fields, which kept
higher-growth mines in  Ghana ,  Peru  and  Australia  and the less
labor-intensive South Deep operation in South Africa.  “Gold Fields is not as exposed to  South Africa  risk as
AngloGold is,” Dion Bate, a Johannesburg-based analyst at
Moody’s Investors Service, said by phone. “As a result Gold
Fields is much less exposed to South African wage negotiations
and potential  strike action .”  Paulson, who made $15 billion for investors of his firm
Paulson & Co. in 2007 by betting against U.S. subprime
mortgages, said in February AngloGold’s then share price could
rise by as much as 68 percent if it split its South African
businesses from units outside the nation. The company has 21
assets in 10 countries, including six deep-level and surface
operations in South Africa.  Shareholder Support  “Paulson & Co. is fully supportive of new CEO
Venkatakrishnan’s plan to enhance  shareholder value  through both
operational and strategic alternatives,” the company said in an
e-mail yesterday. Chief Executive Officer Srinivasan Venkatakrishnan’s focus will be to cut costs and growing output
by completing expansion projects, it said.  Stewart Bailey, head of  investor relations  for AngloGold,
declined to comment.  Gold rallied for a fourth day yesterday, reining in
AngloGold’s bond yields. The rate declined 13 basis points, or
0.13 percentage point, to 8.91 percent.  AngloGold raised $1.25 billion of debt last month. The
bonds maturing in July 2020 have an 8.5 percent coupon, the
highest on record, and the proceeds will be used to repay debt
due in May next year. The company’s credit rating was downgraded
one step to junk by  Standard & Poor’s  on July 17, while it was
marketing the bond to investors. Moody’s cut its assessment to
the lowest investment grade five days earlier.  Rating Downgrades  “That was when the  bond market  was going to potentially
close up on us and then that avenue may not have been open,”
Venkatakrishnan said by phone on Aug. 7 “My former role as CFO
has taught me -- when you see a window, grab it. There’s no
certainty four months down the line.”  The ratings companies cited the lower gold price and the
threat of prolonged strike action as AngloGold negotiates wages
with employees, as reasons for the downgrades.  To combat higher costs and the decline in gold, AngloGold
is cutting capital expenditure, exploration and laying off 40
percent of the 2,000 employees in its corporate office. The
company also suspended its dividend on Aug. 7.  “With the new issue coming, they just announced plans to
cut capex and close unprofitable mines,” said Bruhin, who is
considering buying AngloGold debt. “If they do that they can
maintain their leverage ratios at reasonable levels.”  The rand, used to pay workers, is down 15 percent this year
against the dollar, in which gold is priced. The rand is the
worst performer among 16 major currencies versus the dollar in
2013 and weakened 0.7 percent to 9.9533 by 1:21 p.m. in
Johannesburg.  The risk to AngloGold bonds comes if the  U.S. economy 
continues to improve, causing investors to sell gold, according
to Bruhin.  “With a weaker gold price and stronger dollar, you’ll need
to see what leverage and profitability AngloGold has left,” he
said. “There are some question marks next to that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in Johannesburg at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  