-- Anti-Immigration Rally Kicks Off Push to Block Law Change
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2013-08-13T18:35:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/anti-immigration-rally-kicks-off-push-to-block-law-change.html
U.S. Representative Steve King has
carved out a niche in Congress as an unrelenting foe of
legalizing undocumented immigrants, and last night the Iowa
Republican was the star attraction at a rally where he pressed
his case in the hometown of one of his party’s leaders.  “Let’s restore the rule of law, let’s restore the dignity
of the America citizen, and let’s restore the destiny of the
American nation,” King said, his voice booming from a Richmond,
Virginia, hillside park that overlooks House Majority Leader
Eric Cantor’s district. Those backing a citizenship path for
undocumented immigrants “have no vision for what kind of country
we would have,” he said.  King spoke to about 50 people at a gathering called a
“Stop Amnesty Tour” that featured more than two hours of
speeches and drew activists focused on the immigration issue,
anti-tax Tea Party members and a smattering of local residents.
Some brought their children and sat in portable stadium chairs.
Others brought bright red signs that read, “NO! Amnesty.”  As Congress’s monthlong recess moves into its second week,
the debate over rewriting  immigration  policy is playing out in
shouts and whispers. While advocacy groups on both sides try to
grab headlines with rallies and forums featuring high-profile
speakers, lawmakers key to the legislative effort are largely
steering clear of immigration-centric events and are keeping
their comments to a minimum.  Senator Marco Rubio, a Florida Republican and one of the
lead authors of an immigration bill the Senate passed in late
June, breezed through the topic in 90 seconds during a 35-minute
speech yesterday to the Rotary Club of Jacksonville.  Talent ‘Competition’  He said that while measures that include legalizing
undocumented immigrants are “deeply unpopular” among some
Republican voters, the U.S. is in a “competition for talent”
that helped spur the Senate bill.  “If you’ve got the next great idea, if you’re the next
Albert Einstein, you may struggle to be able to stay” in the
U.S., he told a lunch crowd of about 300 in a hotel ballroom.
“This makes no sense and it has to be fixed.”  The Senate legislation includes more work visas, a $46.3
billion commitment to additional border security and a pathway
to citizenship for undocumented immigrants -- a comprehensive
approach that was essential to attracting bipartisan support for
the measure. Rubio is among those urging fellow Republicans to
back the proposal to help the party improve its appeal to
Hispanic voters, whose 71 percent support for President  Barack Obama  helped him win re-election last November.  Republican House leaders, though, have rejected the Senate
bill and are taking a piecemeal approach to the immigration
debate, preparing separate measures on the issue.  ‘Hold the Line’  Roy Beck, executive director of Arlington, Virginia-based
Numbers USA, said those who favor legalizing the undocumented
have “a heavier lift of changing minds” during the
congressional recess, while anti-immigration groups like his
must simply “hold the line.”  Numbers USA organized the Richmond rally and plans similar
events next month in Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania , and other cities.  “So far I’m not seeing the pro-amnesty bandwagon catching
fire,” Beck said in an interview. “It just goes to show that
what these guys hear once they’re back in their districts is
very different from what the Republican consultant class in
Washington has been telling them” about the party’s needs.  One of the most visible pro-immigration groups, FWD.us,
founded by Facebook Inc. Chief Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg , has been hosting roundtable discussions with
supportive lawmakers. Representative Jeff Denham, a California
Republican, joined technology executives for one on Aug. 7 in
San Francisco.  ‘Amnesty’ Rebuttal  Denham has long favored citizenship for the undocumented.
Other Republicans have used August to debut their acceptance of
such legislation, arguing that the proposals under discussion
don’t amount to amnesty because undocumented immigrants would
have to pay fines and meet other criteria to apply for
citizenship.  Representative Dave Reichert, a Washington state
Republican, said in an Aug. 8 interview on radio station KVI in
Seattle that he supports a “way to find a solution” for the
estimated 11 million undocumented immigrants now in the U.S.  “I want to hold them accountable, and then they get
citizenship, and they’re going to pay taxes,” Reichert, a
former county sheriff, told host John Carlson, a one-time
Republican gubernatorial candidate in  Washington  who suggested
on his show that any means of legalizing undocumented immigrants
would be perilous.  Lawmaker List  Reichert, who spoke yesterday at a U.S. naturalization
ceremony in Chelan, Washington, is on a list of 22 Republicans
whose comments indicate openness to legislation that includes
some kind of citizenship pathway. The list is compiled by
America’s Voice, a Washington-based lobby group that advocates
for legalizing undocumented immigrants and includes unions,
business leaders and others.  Another recent add to the list is Representative Aaron Schock, an  Illinois  Republican. At an Aug. 5 town hall in
Heyworth, Illinois, he said undocumented immigrants should have
to pay taxes, be crime-free and wait for a “provisionary”
period. “Then they can apply for citizenship,” he said.  In the House, backing from most of its Democrats and a
minority of Republicans would provide a majority for immigration
legislation -- yet such a vote is unlikely to occur. House
Speaker John Boehner, an Ohio Republican, has said he doesn’t
plan to bring to the floor immigration-related bills that aren’t
supported by a majority of the chamber’s Republicans.  ‘Calves’ Comment  Many House Republicans have expressed opposition to a
citizenship path for undocumented immigrants, and King’s
outspokenness on the subject has chafed party leaders. Boehner
and Cantor were among those who condemned his comments last
month that far more children brought into the U.S. illegally
served as drug runners and have developed “calves the size of
cantaloupes” than have become high school valedictorians.  King was addressing the willingness among some Republicans
-- including House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte of
 Virginia  -- to consider a path to citizenship for some young
people who entered the country illegally as children.  Cantor, in comments on Aug. 4 on Fox News, said that
undocumented immigrant children shouldn’t be held liable for
their parents’ illegal acts. He also promised that the House
would be “more deliberative and smart” than the Senate in its
debate on immigration policy.  Cantor’s comments raised concerns with Kristi Corbett, a
constituent who attended last night’s Richmond rally. Holding
signs that read “Hello Eric Cantor” and “No Amnesty for
Invaders,” Corbett said she doesn’t trust Cantor -- who wasn’t
present at the gathering -- to be “deliberative.”  “I don’t believe he’s listening to us any longer,” she
said.  King, 64, told his listeners that events like the one they
were attending send a message to lawmakers.  “We know what to do,” he said. “We have to convince them
what’s right.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  