-- AOL’s Armstrong Apologizes for Openly Firing Employee at Meeting
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-08-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/aol-s-tim-armstrong-apologizes-for-firing-employee-at-meeting.html
AOL Inc. (AOL)  Chief Executive Officer  Tim Armstrong , making a rare public apology, sent a memo to
employees saying he was sorry for the way he fired a staff
member at a meeting last week.  The CEO had fired Abel Lenz, a creative director for AOL’s
Patch local-news business, in front of a room full of employees,
as well as a thousand others who were listening in on a
conference call on Aug. 9.  “I am writing you to acknowledge the mistake I made last
Friday during the Patch all-hands meeting when I publicly fired
Abel Lenz,” Armstrong said yesterday in the memo. “I am the
CEO and leader of the organization, and I take that
responsibility seriously.”  Armstrong called last week’s meeting to discuss cutbacks at
Patch, which he aims to turn into a profitable business by the
end of the year. The division -- a collection of local websites
covering community news -- has been a costly part of his
strategy to transform the dial-up provider into an advertising-driven content publisher. The company has spent more than $300
million to develop the sites.  Lenz’s ouster became public fodder after an audio recording
of the meeting leaked out and appeared on the website of media
blogger  Jim Romenesko . Armstrong can be heard calmly discussing
plans for the future of Patch until he notices Lenz documenting
the meeting.  ‘You’re Fired’  “Abel, put that camera down right now! Abel, you’re fired.
Out!” Armstrong said. After a pause, he continued talking about
Patch. Lenz hasn’t been rehired at the New York-based company.  Earlier in the week, Armstrong replaced Patch’s top
executive, Steven Kalin, with Bud Rosenthal. As part of the
cuts, he’s considering shutting or finding partners for 400 of
Patch’s 900 community news sites, people familiar with the
matter  said . AOL is still calculating the number of eliminated
jobs, which could number in the hundreds, the people said.  While the Patch division more than doubled its sales last
year to just under $35 million, Patch’s annual costs range from
$126 million to $162 million.  “As you know, I am a firm believer in open meetings, open
Q&A and this level of transparency requires trust across AOL,”
Armstrong said in the memo. “Internal meetings of a
confidential nature should not be filmed or recorded so that our
employees can feel free to discuss all topics openly. Abel had
been told previously not to record a confidential meeting, and
he repeated that behavior on Friday, which drove my actions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  