-- Apple, McGraw, Telekom Malaysia: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-08-13T10:46:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/apple-mcgraw-telekom-malaysia-intellectual-property.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s patent-infringement
victory over  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  could go far in bolstering
its claim of copying and providing an advantage in any
settlement between the world’s two top smartphone manufacturers.  The U.S. International Trade Commission on Aug. 9 said
Samsung infringed two Apple patents and issued an order banning
imports of products using the iPhone maker’s multitouch features
and headphone jack detection. President  Barack Obama ’s
administration could overturn the import ban on public policy
grounds, as it did Aug. 3 in an order against older iPhones.  The companies are spending hundreds of millions of dollars
in legal fees for some sort of victory that gives them the upper
hand in a final, negotiated solution. Apple, which initiated the
legal fight in 2011, is seeking to limit the Galaxy maker’s
increasing share of the U.S. smartphone market, where Apple is
No. 1 and Samsung No. 2.  Apple filed its first patent-infringement case against
Samsung in April 2011, saying the Korean company “has chosen to
slavishly copy Apple’s innovative technology.” Samsung
responded a week later with its own patent claims, and the fight
has escalated into a legal battle on four continents with no
clear winner and no end in sight, despite negotiations that have
included direct talks between chief executives of both
companies.  Cupertino, California-based Apple has claimed that many of
the phones running on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system
copied unique features of the iPhone, introduced in 2007. Its
first suit, in March 2010 against  Taiwan ’s  HTC Corp. (2498) , resulted
in a settlement that included a pledge by HTC that it wouldn’t
make “cloned” copies of Apple products.  In the global marketplace, Android has grown to become the
most popular operating system, running 80 percent of the almost
230 million smartphones sold worldwide in the second quarter,
compared with Apple’s 14 percent, according to an Aug. 1 report
by Boston-based researcher Strategy Analytics.  Apple won a $1 billion jury verdict last year in
California, though a new trial was ordered to determine damages
on about half of the award. Samsung won an ITC import ban
against Apple, only to have it vetoed by the Obama
administration on public policy grounds regarding patents on
fundamental technology that’s used throughout the industry.  For both reputation purposes and settlement negotiations,
hindering the other company’s sales is often more important than
money. The $1 billion California verdict equals one-seventh of
Samsung’s second-quarter profit and less than two weeks’ worth
of iPhone sales  Abbott Wins Dismissal of Saffran Patent Suit Over Heart Devices  Abbott Laboratories (ABT) , the Illinois-based producer of
pharmaceuticals and health-care products, won dismissal of a
patent suit over a cardiac stent.  Physician Bruce N. Saffran filed the suit in federal court
in Marshall, Texas, in April 2009, accusing Abbott of infringing
a patent belonging to him.  Saffran’s patent 5,653,760 was issued in August 1997 and
broadly covers small drug-coated devices that can be inserted
into damaged tissue and through which “additional treating
materials” can be injected post-installation.  Saffran, of Princeton, New Jersey, previously won a $482
million jury verdict against Johnson & Johnson for infringing
that same patent. That case was overturned on appeal in April.  Based on that appeals court ruling, Abbott products don’t
infringe the patent either, according to court filings.  Parties on both sides of the case agreed to dismiss all
claims, and each was to bear the cost of litigation and attorney
fees, according to court filings.  The case is Saffran v. Abbott Laboratories, 2:09-cv-00256-JRG-RSP, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of  Texas 
(Marshall).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Apple Variety Trademark Holder Warns Consumers Against Imports  Pink Lady LLC, the Wenatchee, Washington-based trade group
is warning consumers against buying so-called “Pink Lady”
apples that are sold without the trademark sticker on the fruit,
Produce Retailer  reported .  The trade group said untrademarked fruit from the southern
hemisphere is being imported into the U.S., and there is no
guarantee it will meet the quality standards for those entitled
to use the sticker, according to Produce Retailer.  The article in Produce Retailer garnered a number of
comments, many of them critical of Pink Lady LLC for
“attempting to dictate to us (the consumer) what we should or
should not buy.”  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Pirate Bay Offers Browser That Can Sidestep Web Censors  Pirate Bay , the website accused of enabling copyright
infringement through the use of the BitTorrent protocol,
celebrated its 10th anniversary by offering for downloading a
Web browser that can circumvent any censorship and Web blocks,
PC Magazine  reported .  The PirateBrowser, which can be downloaded for free at
 www.piratebrowser.com , was created out of the Firefox Web
browsers, with several add-ons, PC Magazine reported.  PirateBrowser is aimed at users in countries where access
to certain websites is blocked, such as Pirate Bay, according to
PC Magazine.  The browser doesn’t offer anonymous browsing, PC Magazine
reported.  Artist Tala Madani Sued Over Paintings Found in Storage Locker  Two  Oregon  residents, who bought the contents of a storage
locker at an auction of unclaimed goods in Independence, Oregon,
filed suit against a  California  artist, seeking clarification of
the ownership of the copyrights to a number of her works.  After Brad Daily and Mike Claxton won the auction, they
discovered the locker contained 114 paintings they say are by
 Tala Madani , who was once a student at Oregon State University.  Madani, who was born in  Iran , has won awards for her work,
some of which is collected in museums such as the Tate Modern in
the U.K. She is presently represented by the  Pilar Corrias 
Gallery in  London .  Daily and Claxton, who do business as the Independence
Collection, said they found some personal items in the locker,
including photo ID cards for Madani, and contacted her, in an
attempt to return them to her.  While they also discussed returning several of Madani’s
paintings, negotiations quickly degenerated, they said in their
pleadings. They claim that Madani’s mother and independent
documentation confirm that the paintings are the artist’s work.  They then put one of the paintings up for auction through
the Phillips Gallery of New York in May 2013, at which they
anticipated a sale price of between $15,000 and $20,000. The
auction didn’t take place because Madani contacted the gallery
to challenge the legitimacy of the Independence Group’s
ownership of the work, and threatened to sue the gallery.  Madani’s lawyers then told the Independence Group that the
artist disclaims the painting and that it would be a criminal
offense to sell them as her artwork, according to court papers.  Independence Group asked the court to declare that it owns
the work, and to quit interfering with their attempts to sell
it. They also seek an order barring Madani from disclaiming the
work, and money damages in excess of $150,000.  They also asked the court to declare that the sale of any
of the works in the collection doesn’t violate any of the
artist’s rights.  Madani didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request
for comment sent through her gallery.  The case is Independence Collection LLC v. Madani, 6:13-cv-01397-MC, U.S. District Court, District of Oregon (Eugene).  Judge Refuses to Hear Curb Records’ Case Against Tim McGraw  A copyright dispute between Nashville, Tennessee-based Curb
Records Inc. and country-music singer  Tim McGraw  was closed down
by a federal judge in  Tennessee .  Curb sued McGraw for copyright infringement in federal
court in Nashville in April, related to master recordings the
singer delivered to a new label, Big Machine Records LLC.  McGraw recorded these in a time period covered by a
contract to Curb, the company said in its complaint, alleging
that it was the rightful owner of the copyrights.  Curb had also sued McGraw in state court, alleging that the
singer had violated his contract.  U.S. District Judge William J. Haynes Jr. ordered the case
closed, saying he couldn’t address the copyright-infringement
case until the copyright ownership issues are finally resolved
by the state courts.  In his ruling he said that any party to the litigation
could file a motion to reopen the case after the state courts
make their final ruling.  He noted that the Tennessee Court of Appeals had already
denied Curb’s request to bar McGraw’s recording new content.
That court found the request inappropriate, giving the label
“the ability to keep McGraw from moving forward with his
recording career.” That court refused to reverse a lower-court
ruling permitting McGraw to go ahead and record new content.  The federal case is Curb Records Inc. v. McGraw, 3:13-cv-00399, U.S. District Court, Middle District of Tennessee
(Nashville).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Telekom Malaysia Says It’s Still Probing Espionage Claim  Telekom Malaysia Bhd (T)  is continuing its investigation into
an alleged industrial espionage incident involving an employee
of one of its multinational partner companies, the Malay Mail
Online  reported .  The incident involved a visit a group of Telekom Malaysia
employees made to the overseas facility of a European partner
company, according to Malay Mail Online.  The partner company employee allegedly joined the group of
Telekom Malaysia employees on this visit, thus obtaining access
to facilities belonging to a competitor, Malay Mail Online
reported.  Although Telekom Malaysia declined to identify either of
the two rival partner companies, Malay Mail reported that both
are bidding to provide infrastructure for the Malaysian
company’s 4G Long Term Evolution technology aimed at providing
high speed mobile broadband.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  