-- Asia Stocks Rise for Fourth Day as Japan’s Topix Advances
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 2013-08-13T11:59:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/asia-stocks-rise-for-fourth-day-as-japan-s-topix-advances-on-yen.html
Asian  stocks  rose for a fourth day,
with Japanese shares gaining as the yen weakened after a report
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is considering a corporate- tax cut  and
data showed machinery orders beat estimates.  Honda Motor Co. (7267) , which gets 83 percent of sales from
overseas, increased 1.9 percent, pacing gains among Japanese
exporters. Sony Financial Holdings Inc., the financial services
unit of electronics maker Sony Corp., jumped 2.8 percent in
Tokyo after proposing a higher dividend.  Newcrest (NCM)  Mining Ltd.
slipped 2.3 percent as brokers cut ratings on shares of
 Australia ’s biggest gold producer.  The MSCI  Asia  Pacific Index added 0.9 percent to 135.24 at
7:43 p.m. in Hong Kong as more than six shares rose for every
one that fell. Nine of 10 industry groups gained on the gauge,
which posted its longest winning streak in six weeks.  “The yen returning to the 97 level is positive and a
corporate tax cut would be reflected on company earnings
directly, so its impact on the market would be huge,”  Toshihiko Matsuno , a strategist at Tokyo-based SMBC Friend Securities Co.,
a unit of  Japan ’s second-biggest lender by market value, said by
telephone. “The  U.S. economy  isn’t doing too badly and the
dollar was sold off too much.”  Abe called for a study of lower rates on businesses as a
counterweight to a sales-levy increase, the Nikkei newspaper
reported, citing unidentified people in the government. Japan
may raise the  consumption tax  three percentage points next year
to rein in a national debt of more than twice gross domestic
product.  Machinery Orders  Japan’s  Topix index  climbed 2 percent, with trading volume
30 percent below the 30-day average. The Nikkei 225 Stock
Average increased 2.6 percent. The nation’s core machinery
orders increased 4.9 percent in June from a year earlier,
exceeding estimates for a 2.6 percent gain, data today from the
Cabinet Office showed.  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng Index rose 1.2 percent, while the
Hang Seng  China  Enterprises Index advanced 2.6 percent to
complete its biggest four-day advance since December 2011.
China’s Shanghai Composite Index added 0.2 percent.  South
Korea ’s  Kospi index  jumped 1.5 percent, Taiwan’s Taiex index
increased 1.1 percent.  Singapore ’s Straits Times Index gained
0.4 percent. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index added 1 percent,
closing at its highest level in 11 weeks. New Zealand’s NZX 50
Index advanced 0.1 percent.  Data this week may bolster the global economic outlook.
U.S. retail sales probably climbed a fourth month in July, while
industrial output in the euro region rose the most in June since
2011, according to surveys of economists by Bloomberg before
data due today. A report tomorrow will probably show the euro-zone economy grew the first time in seven quarters in the second
quarter, a separate poll showed.  BOJ Minutes  The Bank of Japan released minutes of its July meeting
today indicating it expects moderate growth in the economy.  “Market participants are hyper-sensitive to data right
now,” Ravi Bharadwaj, a senior market analyst in  Washington  at
Western Union Business Solutions, a unit of Western Union Co.,
said by telephone. “Forward expectations are certainly helping
the dollar to push sharp gains.”  Japanese exporters advanced as the yen fell 1.2 percent to
98.02 per dollar. Honda gained 1.9 percent to 3,795 yen.  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203) , Asia’s largest carmaker, added 2.3 percent to 6,330
yen. Canon Inc., a camera maker that generates 80 percent of
sales outside Japan, rose 1.9 percent to 3,190 yen.  Earnings Season  The MSCI Asia Pacific last week declined 1.3 percent,
snapping the longest weekly winning streak since January.  About 50 percent of the companies on the Asia-Pacific gauge
that have posted profits this earnings season beat analysts’
estimates, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Japan’s top-listed companies doubled earnings last quarter
from a year earlier, with profit rising 103 percent and beating
analysts’ estimates by 16 percent, the most in two years, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Companies topping estimates include
Toyota, Sony Corp., Shiseido Co. and Kobe Steel Ltd.  Even after falling for the past three months, the Topix
index is still up 35 percent this year, retaining Japan’s
position as the world’s best-performing developed equity market.
The measure has risen amid optimism Abe will push through
reforms while the  Bank of Japan  provides record stimulus to spur
a recovery in Asia’s second-largest economy.  Sony Financial gained 2.8 percent to 1,703 yen in Tokyo
after saying it will increase its full-year dividend to 30 yen,
up from a previous plan for a 25 yen payout.  China Resources  China Resources Land Ltd., the second-largest mainland
developer traded in Hong Kong, jumped 6 percent to HK$23.95 as
property shares extended yesterday’s gains.  Stockland slid 2.9 percent to A$3.70. Australia’s biggest
diversified property trust said full-year profit fell 79 percent
amid challenging conditions in its residential business.  Newcrest declined 2.3 percent to A$12.10. Deutsche Bank AG
and Macquarie Group Ltd. analysts lowered their recommendations
on the shares after the miner yesterday said it will cut costs
further if prices keep declining. The gold producer booked a
record full-year loss on a A$6.2 billion ($5.7 billion)
writedown.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in  Tokyo  at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  