-- Atlantic Hurricane Season May Spark to Life Next Week
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-08-13T18:14:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/atlantic-hurricane-season-may-spark-to-life-next-week-after-lull.html
The  Atlantic hurricane season  is
about to enter its most active phase as conditions for the
powerful storms improve across the basin.  Wind shear that can tear budding storms apart has been
decreasing, said Dan Kottlowski, an expert senior meteorologist
at AccuWeather Inc. in  State College , Pennsylvania. At the same
time, the potential for more robust tropical waves, the seeds
for hurricanes, is increasing.  The U.S.  National Hurricane Center  is currently tracking
such a wave just off the coast of Africa. It has a 20 percent
chance of becoming a tropical system in the next five days.  “There are six or seven blobs of thunderstorms marching
across Africa right now, some of these will be tropical waves,”
Kottlowski said by telephone. “Next week looks very promising
for development over the eastern Atlantic.”  The Atlantic season begins on June 1 and the most active
portion falls between Aug. 20 and October. Sept. 10 is the
statistical peak of the period, according to the center in
Miami.  The storms are followed closely by energy companies and
commodities traders because they can destroy crops and disrupt
natural gas and oil production and processing.  Gulf Impact  The  Gulf of Mexico  is home to about 6 percent of U.S.
natural gas output, 23 percent of oil production and more than
40 percent of petroleum refining capacity, according to the
Energy Department. The Bay of Campeche, at the southern end of
the Gulf, is where  Petroleos Mexicanos ,  Mexico ’s state-owned oil
company, has most of its production.  Florida is the second-largest producer of oranges after
 Brazil .  The 30-year average for the Atlantic season is 12 storms
with winds of at least 39 miles (63 kilometers) per hour, the
level at which they are named, the hurricane center said.
Thirteen to 19 named storms are expected this year, according to
a  National Oceanic & Atmospheric Administration  outlook issued
last week.  Four Storms  Four storms have already formed in the Atlantic basin this
year, putting the season ahead of schedule. The fourth storm
usually forms by Aug. 23, center data show.  While activity in the Atlantic may increase next week, the
threat to the U.S. and the Gulf of Mexico will probably be low,
said  Matt Rogers , president of Commodity Weather Group LLC in
Bethesda,  Maryland .  “The waves have been getting more robust but the models
have been having trouble keeping them going across the
Atlantic,” Rogers said.  Computer models in  North America  and  Europe  show any storms
developing next week falling apart before they get to the U.S.,
he said.  In addition to the wave off Africa, the center is tracking
a  broad area  of thunderstorms in the southwestern Caribbean Sea.
It has a 30 percent chance of becoming a system in the next five
days.  Rogers said he doesn’t believe it will have enough time to
develop into a strong, organized tropical system before going
onto land.  “My feeling on that system is it is a very low risk,
probably zero, on Gulf production threat,” Rogers said.  Kottlowski said the greatest impact may be that part of the
cluster breaks off and takes more  heavy rain  across the
southeastern U.S.  “They have had more than double their normal rainfall for
the last 30 days, there could be major flooding issues in the
southern Appalachian mountains,” Kottlowski said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  