-- Aurubis Cuts Profit Forecast on Europe Copper Demand Drop
-- B y   W e i x i n   Z h a
-- 2013-08-13T08:13:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/aurubis-cuts-profit-forecast-on-europe-copper-demand-drop.html
Aurubis AG (NDA) , the world’s largest
copper smelter, cut its full-year profit forecast as it expects
“volatile” metal pricing amid subdued demand in  Europe .  Earnings for the 12 months through September will be
“significantly down,” Hamburg-based Aurubis said today in a
statement. That compared with an earlier prediction of
“satisfactory results.” The company foresees copper prices at
about $7,000 a metric ton “for the foreseeable future.”  The net loss in the fiscal third quarter ended June 30
totaled 247 million euros ($329 million) compared with net
income of 6 million euros a year earlier, Aurubis said. Earnings
were hurt by inventory values and hedging contracts affected by
price declines, it said. no problem. Copper for three-month
delivery on the London Metal Exchange rose 0.4 percent to
$7,281.50 a ton at 9:06 a.m. local time, paring the drop this
year to 8.2 percent.  “The third-quarter loss was a valuation loss based on the
copper price,” Amit Pansari, a Bangalore-based analyst at
Societe Generale, said on the telephone today. “We expect it is
a one-off and not going to be repeated as things on the
operational level look good.”  Aurubis, which is also second only to  Chile ’s Codelco in
production of refined copper, expects the metal’s scrap markets
“to be tight for now” because of questions over pricing
stemming mainly from U.S. Federal Reserve policy decisions and
slowing economic growth in  China , it said. Treatment charges, or
the prices customers pay Aurubis for handling copper, will be
“at a good level” the rest of this year, the company said.  Stock Rises  Aurubis  rose  as much as 1.3 percent to 43.40 euros and was
trading up 1.1 percent at 10:09 a.m., reversing a drop of as
much as 3.6 percent earlier today. The stock has declined 19
percent this year, valuing the company at 1.95 billion euros.  Third-quarter revenue fell 15 percent to 2.92 billion
euros, Aurubis said. The copper-smelting company reported on
Aug. 1 that the pretax loss was 336 billion euros. Aurubis
“will look confidently to the new fiscal year,” when a
maintenance project that has closed a plant is completed and
capacity is added.  “For the next year, we are positive as we expect
improvement of the product market and treatment charges,”
 Societe Generale  analyst Pansari said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weixin Zha in Frankfurt at 
 wzha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  