-- Australia Business Confidence Falls to 8-Month Low Before Ballot
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-08-13T01:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/australia-business-confidence-falls-to-8-month-low-before-ballot.html
Australian business confidence
slumped to an eight-month low and remained “extremely poor” in
the key  mining industry  as interest-rate cuts and a weaker
currency failed to encourage companies, a private report showed.  The  confidence  index for July fell to minus 3, according to
a National Australia Bank Ltd. survey released today of more
than 400 companies taken July 25-31. The result was the worst
since November 2012. The business conditions gauge, a measure of
hiring, sales and profits, held at minus 7.  “Forward indicators provide little hope that demand will
improve in the near term, with forward orders, stocks and
capacity utilization all remaining well below long-run average
levels,” NAB Chief Economist  Alan Oster  said in the report.
“It is also possible that uncertainty over timing of the
federal election kept businesses wary during the month.”  The survey underscores the challenge for Prime Minister
 Kevin Rudd  as he pitches for another term based on economic
management ahead of the Sept. 7 election. Reserve Bank Governor
 Glenn Stevens  and his board reduced the overnight  cash-rate 
target to a record-low 2.5 percent last week, even as the local
dollar has fallen about 14 percent since early April.  “Confidence remained especially lackluster in mining,
where businesses seem pessimistic about the outlook for
investment in the face of slowing global demand and softening
commodity prices, despite a lower Australian dollar,” Oster
said. “After showing signs of improvement at the beginning of
this year, construction firms again seem worried about the poor
outlook for investment. Not even a falling dollar has been able
to revive hopes for manufacturers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  