-- Bard Put Profits Ahead of Patients’ Safety, Lawyer Says
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-08-13T23:54:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/bard-put-profits-ahead-of-patients-safety-lawyer-says.html
C.R. Bard Inc. (BCR)  officials put profits
ahead of women’s safety when they ignored warnings about defects
in some vaginal-mesh implants, a lawyer told a jury in the first
federal trial of claims over the devices.  Bard officials knew the company was making implants for
shoring up pelvic muscles out of plastic that carried a warning
that it shouldn’t be permanently implanted in humans, and still
pushed ahead with production,  Henry Garrard , a lawyer for a
woman suing over the devices, said in closing arguments today in
Charleston, West Virginia.  “We’ve got a company here that steamrolled through safety
principles,” Garrard told jurors. Bard was more concerned about
generating sales of its Avaulta line of vaginal inserts than
with ensuring the devices were safe, he said.  Bard, based in Murray Hill, New Jersey, faces more than
5,000 claims over its Avaulta Plus vaginal mesh, which Donna
Cisson and other women allege can cause organ damage and make
sexual intercourse painful when the devices erode.  Johnson &
Johnson (JNJ) ,  Endo Health Solutions Inc. (ENDP)  and  Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX) 
face similar claims that their implants, threaded in place
through vaginal incisions, degrade and shrink over time.  Many of those cases have been consolidated before U.S.
District Judge Joseph Goodwin, who is presiding over Cisson’s
suit in Charleston, for pretrial information exchanges. A four-woman, four-man jury is slated to begin deliberations on
Cisson’s claims tomorrow.  Bard Attorneys  Bard’s attorneys contend the medical-device maker properly
designed and manufactured the Avaulta implants and the mesh
isn’t responsible for Cisson’s injuries.  “A lot of things have been thrown out against us that
aren’t grounded in science or in evidence,” Lori Cohen, one of
the company’s lawyers, said in her closing argument today.  Cisson, a public-health nurse from Toccoa,  Georgia , got an
Avaulta Plus implant in 2009 to buttress organs that were
collapsing into her pelvic region, according to evidence in the
case. The 55-year-old Cisson had several surgeries to remove the
mesh after she began suffering pelvic and rectal pain, bleeding
and bladder spasms.  Bard officials pulled the Avaulta implants off the market
last year after the  U.S. Food and Drug Administration  ordered
all makers of the devices to study rates of organ damage,
infection and painful sex linked to their products.  California Jury  A California state court jury last year found Bard liable
for a woman’s injuries tied to an Avaulta implant in the first
case to go trial in any U.S. court. Jurors ordered the company
to pay $5.5 million in damages. Bard is liable for $3.6 million
of that award under state law.  In the West Virginia case, Garrard told jurors today that
Bard ignored research showing plastic implanted in the human
body creates a risk of erosion and infection, and used animal
testing to decide if the mesh would be safe for women.  The company also disregarded a warning from a unit of
Chevron Phillips Chemical Co., which made the mesh-implant’s
plastic, cautioning that the material shouldn’t be implanted in
humans, Garrard said.  To protect their supply of mesh plastic, Bard officials
told each other in e-mails not to allow Chevron Phillips
executives to learn they were using the material in people,
Garrard said. “Bad ideas hurt good people and that’s what
happened here,” he said.  Mesh Unsafe?  Cohen countered that the plastic in the Avaulta implants
had been safely used in medical devices for more than 50 years
and experts had praised Bard’s efforts to design a way to safely
reinforce failing pelvic muscles.  “There’s no one who has testified here that it is
unsafe,” the company’s lawyer told the panel. Doctors concluded
that Cisson’s back problems were the cause of her pelvic pain,
Cohen said.  Cisson’s first trial in July ended in a mistrial after a
witness began testifying about the devices’ marketing and
removal from the market. Goodwin ruled earlier that plaintiffs
couldn’t mention that Bard had withdrawn the products.  The Bard consolidated cases are In re C.R. Bard Inc. Pelvic
Repair System Products Liability Litigation, 10-md-02187, and
Cisson’s case is Cisson v. C.R. Bard Inc., 11-cv-00195, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of West Virginia (Charleston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  