-- Billionaire Holch Povlsen Adds Zalando to Fashion Portfolio
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2013-08-13T15:14:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/billionaire-holch-povlsen-adds-zalando-to-his-fashion-portfolio.html
Anders Holch Povlsen, the owner of
Danish fashion company Bestseller A/S, is buying a stake in
Zalando GmbH, adding the German online clothing retailer to an
investment portfolio that includes its competitor  Asos Plc. (ASC)   The billionaire is acquiring 10 percent of Berlin-based
Zalando from shareholders including European Founders Fund,
Holtzbrinck and Tengelmann, all of whom were among the first
investors in the business that was founded in 2008, according to
a statement today. All the Zalando shareholders selling shares
will maintain an interest afterwards.  Holch Povlsen will be the third-biggest shareholder in the
company, which was started by  David Schneider  and Robert Gentz
with the backing of the Samwer brothers. Zalando, which sells
designer clothing from labels such as  Michael Kors (KORS)  and Patrizia
Pepe, has been regularly touted by the media as a candidate for
an initial public offer, even though it isn’t yet profitable.  The investment is “strategic to some degree because
Bestseller has expertise in the area and it seems like they
would be an investor who’s in there for the long run,” said
 Christian Schulze , assistant professor of marketing at the
Frankfurt School of Finance and Management.  Bestseller already holds a stake of about 27 percent in
Asos, the U.K.’s largest online-only fashion retailer, which in
June reported a 45 percent rise in third-quarter retail sales.
The Danish company first disclosed it held  Asos shares  in May
2010, and since then the stock has surged more than sevenfold.  Separate Investments  Asos was little changed at 4,919 pence at 4 p.m. today,
valuing the company at about 4.1 billion pounds ($6.3 billion).  Holch Povlsen treats the investments in Asos and Zalando
“very separately,” Zalando co-Chief Executive Officer Rubin Ritter said in a phone interview. “My reading of it is that he
is a great believer in fashion e-commerce. There’s nothing about
combining” the businesses.  The price paid for the Zalando stake wasn’t disclosed. The
company’s largest investor,  Investment AB Kinnevik (KINVB) , said in June
that it exercised an option to acquire an additional 3.5 percent
for 100 million euros, boosting its stake to 38 percent. Its
holding will be 37 percent after Holch Povlsen’s investment.  A spokesman for Bestseller declined to comment on the
price. Ritter also declined to comment on the deal’s value.  Zalando sells all Bestseller brands throughout Europe and
has become one of the Danish company’s main wholesale partners.  ‘Similar View’  “We’ve been supplying the company with Bestseller goods
since early 2010,” Ritter said. “We have a similar view of
where we want to take the business. It’s not about a fundamental
change in the strategy, but about taking someone on board who
brings a lot of experience and knowledge to the table.”  Closer ties between Zalando and Bestseller “will become
beneficial for both our companies in the long run,” Holch
Povlsen said in a  statement on Bestseller’s website  today. “We
share many views, and it is no secret that we both have a great
belief in the future of fashion e-commerce.”  Founded in  Denmark  in 1975 by Holch Povlsen’s parents,
Bestseller sells clothing brands including Jack & Jones and Vero
Moda and has more than 3,000 stores in 38 markets. The company
is the eighth-biggest retailer in the Asia-Pacific region and
only the 29th biggest in western Europe, according to researcher
Euromonitor International.  “Western Europe is a much tougher market to navigate in
for Bestseller, especially in the current conditions,” Ashma
Kunde, an apparel analyst at  Euromonitor , said in a phone
interview. “Having a stake in the region’s most successful
online players, Asos and Zalando, will definitely improve
Bestseller’s presence in these markets and strengthen the
company’s wholesale business. From Bestseller’s point of view,
Asos is going to be much more important, especially with Asos
expanding into markets like Russia and  China .”  IPO Talk  Asos’s Russian country-specific website, which started up
in May, has gone well, Chief Executive Officer Nick Robertson
said in June, without giving details. China, which is planned
for October, is on track, he said at the time.  Zalando’s operations in  Germany ,  Austria  and  Switzerland 
broke even before interest and tax last year, though the company
posted a group Ebit margin of minus 8 percent of sales because
of the cost of opening business in additional countries.  Banks have been reaching out to the company regarding the
possibility of an IPO, two people familiar with the matter, who
declined to be identified because the matter is private, said in
June. Still,  Europe ’s biggest online retailer for shoes and
fashion currently has no plans for an IPO, spokesman Steffen
Heinzelmann said at the time.  “We received a lot of interest from all sides, but we only
very selectively talked to potential partners,” Ritter said
today. “Anders is definitely such a partner.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  