-- Blackstone Said to Acquire GE Apartments for $2.7 Billion
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2013-08-13T17:27:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/blackstone-said-to-acquire-ge-apartments-for-2-7-billion.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX)  agreed to buy 80
apartment properties for about $2.7 billion in one of its
largest forays into the U.S. multifamily market, a person with
knowledge of the deal said.  The biggest manager of private-equity real estate funds is
acquiring the properties from  General Electric Co. (GE) ’s GE Capital
unit, said the person, who asked not to be identified because
the transaction isn’t public. GE has been paring its property
holdings as part of a strategy to shrink its finance division.  Surging rental demand has sent U.S. apartment  vacancies  to
the lowest level in a decade, according to  Reis Inc. (REIS)  In
residential real estate, New York-based Blackstone has focused
on buying single-family homes to rent, spending more than $5
billion to acquire more than 30,000 U.S. houses in the aftermath
of the foreclosure crisis.  The firm’s latest purchase comes as apartment stocks, one
of the best performers among commercial-property types since the
credit crisis, have fallen from their highs. The Bloomberg
Apartment Real Estate Investment Trust Index has declined 1.4
percent in the 12 months through yesterday, compared with a gain
of 9.6 percent for the broader Bloomberg REIT Index and a 23
percent return for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, after the
reinvestment of dividends.  Blackstone had been in talks in 2011 to buy all or parts of
Archstone, the U.S. apartment landlord that ultimately was sold
by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. to  Equity Residential (EQR)  and
 AvalonBay Communities Inc. (AVB)   Carlyle Purchases  Carlyle Group LP, the second-largest private-equity firm by
assets, has been one of the most active buyout companies in the
apartment market. The Washington-based company has invested
about $2.8 billion since late 2008 to bet on the broader housing
recovery, including purchases of residential mortgage-backed
securities.  Blackstone is stepping up wagers on apartments as it sells
its biggest hotel, office and retail holdings. The company has
filed for initial public offerings of its Brixmor Property Group
shopping center unit and Extended Stay America hotel chain. It
hired bankers for an IPO of Hilton Worldwide Inc. and possible
IPO or sale of its La Quinta limited-service hotels, people with
knowledge of the plans have said.  Blackstone is the largest owner of hotel rooms in the
country, and the second-biggest owner of office buildings,
according to National Real Estate Investor. The firm also is a
major holder of industrial and retail assets.  Christine Anderson , a spokeswoman for Blackstone, and
Patrick Brennan, a GE Capital spokesman, declined to comment.
The deal was reported yesterday by the Wall Street Journal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  