-- BlackBerry Crisis Dredges Up Painful Nortel Memories
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n   a n d   G e r r i t   D e   V y n c k
-- 2013-08-13T16:59:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/blackberry-crisis-dredges-up-painful-nortel-memories.html
BlackBerry Ltd. (BBRY) ’s search for a buyer
is stirring up old memories of another former Canadian
technology giant that fell from glory.  Nortel Networks Corp. (NRTLQ) , the telecommunications-equipment
maker founded in 1895, once represented more than one-third of
the country’s benchmark stock index, with a market value of
C$366 billion ($354 billion). It filed for  bankruptcy  in 2009,
leading to thousands of job losses, a $7.8 billion asset sale
and a severe blow to  Canada ’s ambitions as technology leader.  Now BlackBerry, the smartphone pioneer that has ceded
almost all of the market to Apple Inc. and Google Inc., is the
Canadian icon seeking to avoid extinction. The company said this
week it formed a special board committee to consider joint
ventures, partnerships or a sale of the company, weighing all
options after its new BlackBerry 10 products flopped.  “Nortel was a leader, BlackBerry was a leader. Look what
happened to both of them -- they lost that edge,” said  Ian Nakamoto , research director at MacDougall, MacDougall & MacTier
Inc. “How could it not crimp the national pride?”  Nortel had annual revenue of $28 billion at its peak in
2000, with 93,000 employees in more than 150 countries. Its
bankruptcy filing spooked customers such as Verizon
Communications Inc., whose concerns about the Canadian company’s
balance sheet overruled their interest in its products, then-Chief Strategy Officer George Riedel said in 2009. Nortel had to
sell off its assets as a result, he said.  Self-Inflicted Wounds  Unlike Nortel, BlackBerry isn’t loaded with debt. And many
of Nortel’s wounds were self-inflicted rather than coming from
shifts in market demand. Nortel restated earnings going back to
1999 after probes by regulators in 2004 indicated executives
incorrectly booked revenue, inflating sales figures by $3.4
billion. The company paid a $35 million fine in 2007 to settle
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission claims that it defrauded
investors by manipulating earnings from 2000 to 2003. The
company didn’t admit or deny wrongdoing.  Meanwhile, phone companies were putting off network
investments to weather the recession in 2009,  magnifying  the
impact of Nortel’s internal missteps.  Despite the stumbles that led to its demise, many Canadians
took Nortel’s bankruptcy like a punch in the gut. The company
sold off units one by one from 2009 to 2011, culminating in a
$4.5 billion sale of patents to a group including Apple and
Microsoft Corp. -- as well as BlackBerry itself, then known as
 Research In Motion Ltd. (BB)   No Intervention  Canadian regulators, charged with weighing the benefit of
such transactions to the nation, chose repeatedly not to block
Nortel’s asset sales. The company had sought and was denied aid
from the Canadian government that may have helped avert a
bankruptcy, former Nortel Chief Executive Officer Mike Zafirovski told lawmakers in 2009. Tony Clement, then Canada’s
industry minister, said Nortel’s business plan wasn’t
“commercially viable” enough to grant aid.  Now BlackBerry’s decision to consider a takeover is fueling
speculation that Canadian investors could band together to
acquire the company, potentially offering a more palatable
solution to regulators than a foreign buyer.  In the end, as with Nortel, the government may not play
much of a role, Nakamoto said.  “BlackBerry doesn’t have a balance sheet problem -- they
have a lack of customers,” he said. “What can Ottawa do? Get
people to buy more BlackBerrys? There’s nothing they can do.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Crayton Harrison in  New York  at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net ;
Gerrit De Vynck in Toronto at 
 gdevynck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  