-- BlueMountain Sees Growth in Residential Mortgage Debt
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2013-08-13T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/bluemountain-sees-growth-in-residential-mortgage-debt.html
BlueMountain Capital Management LLC,
the $15.7 billion credit and equity derivatives hedge-fund firm
founded by Andrew Feldstein and Stephen Siderow, said
investments in residential mortgage debt have among the best
growth prospects.  “In liquid structured credit, we expect RMBS to be the
biggest growth area for us,” Feldstein, chief executive officer
and chief investment officer at BlueMountain, wrote in the
letter to investors, a copy of which was obtained by  Bloomberg
News , referring to residential mortgage-backed securities.  BlueMountain is seeing opportunities to profit in the
mortgage market as President  Barack Obama  has called for an
overhaul of housing finance and government-sponsored enterprises
such as  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac . A housing bill that has
support from Republicans and Democrats would replace Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac with a federal reinsurer that would step in only
after private capital had taken at least 10 percent of the first
losses on mortgage securities.  “The market is in flux given the creative destruction
levied by the financial crisis; and the future of the GSE’s is,
of course, entirely uncertain,” Feldstein wrote, using the
acronym for government-sponsored enterprises.  JPMorgan Trades  BlueMountain, which last year helped JPMorgan Chase & Co.
unwind trades that led to a loss of more than $6.2 billion at
the bank, posted returns in its various funds in the first half
of the year of 4.4 percent to 7 percent, according to the
letter. The firm has about 85 percent of its capital in
relative-value strategies, with the remainder in longer-duration
pools.  BlueMountain was founded by Feldstein, a former JPMorgan
executive who helped create the credit-default swaps market, and
Siderow in 2003.  Doug Hesney, a spokesman for BlueMountain with Dukas Public
Relations Inc., declined to comment on the letter.  BlueMountain specializes in spotting abnormalities in price
relationships in credit swaps. The firm exploits small,
intermittent differences in price, such as those among bonds and
the swaps that insure them, and uses custom algorithms to
arbitrage swaps and the indexes that London-based Markit Group
Ltd. owns and manages.  Dodd-Frank  The development of rules under the Dodd-Frank Act for the
trading and clearing of the about $600 trillion annual market in
financial swaps, some of which were at the center of the 2007 to
2008 financial crisis, may create more opportunities for
exploiting pricing differences between indexes and credit
default swaps tied to single securities, BlueMountain said in
the letter. Credit default swaps, or CDS, are contracts that pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, minus the value of the defaulted debt, tools for
investors to hedge risk. An increase in the swaps indicates that
derivatives traders view the company as more risky.  “Once clearinghouse rules are set, the opportunity may
increase, as the number of index market participants continues
to grow, while participants in single-name CDS may not,”
Feldstein wrote in the letter. “This imbalance in market
participants could lead to more frequent differences between the
price of an index and the price of its constituents, creating
arbitrage opportunities.”  BlueMountain started two new collateralized-loan
obligations in the first half of the year, bringing such assets
to about $3 billion, according to the letter. CLOs are a type of
collateralized debt obligation that pool high-yield, high-risk
loans and slice them into securities of varying risk and return.  Tokyo Office  BlueMountain plans to open a Tokyo office before the end of
the year, according to the letter.  “We’re excited to extend our global reach and believe that
having feet on the ground in the world’s third-largest economy
will enable us to continue to generate alpha in new and
diversified strategies, including but not limited to fundamental
investing and equity derivatives,” Feldstein wrote in the
letter.  Charles Kobayashi, partner at BlueMountain, will lead the
Tokyo office, the firm said. BlueMountain also has offices in
 New York , its headquarters, and  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in New York at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  