-- Meiya Bond Premium Falls as Asia Credit Risk Near Three-Week Low
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2013-08-13T05:07:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/bond-risk-falls-in-australia-credit-default-swaps-prices-show.html
Meiya Power Co.’s dollar-denominated
bond spread tightened a day after the generator of electricity
in  China  and  Korea  sold the notes. Credit risk in Asia held near
a three-week low.  The yield premium on the August 2018 securities narrowed to
266 basis points as of 12:15 p.m. in Hong Kong after pricing at
270 above similar-maturity Treasuries yesterday, according to
prices from Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. The Markit iTraxx
Asia index of 40 investment-grade borrowers outside Japan
dropped to 139.7 basis points yesterday, the lowest since July
24. It traded near that level at 140.5 as of 8:29 a.m. in
Singapore, Westpac Banking Corp. prices show.  Chinese bonds gained for the  first time  in three weeks in
the five days through Aug. 9, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.
indexes. Government data released last week showed rebounding
exports and manufacturing in the world’s second-largest economy
even after Premier Li Keqiang engineered the worst cash crunch
in at least a decade.  “Risk appetite has improved and Asian investors still have
a lot of liquidity to put to work,” said Cheng Duan Pang, head
of fixed income at Manulife Asset Management (Singapore) Pte.
“Credit selection remains important and it helps that they are
familiar with Asian names.”  Credit Risk  The Markit iTraxx Australia index fell 2 basis points to
116 basis points as of 10:16 a.m. in Sydney, according to
Westpac prices. The benchmark is set to drop for a fourth
straight day, poised for its lowest level since Aug. 6,
according to data provider CMA.  The Markit iTraxx  Japan  index was also little changed at 94
basis points as of 9:17 a.m. in  Tokyo , Citigroup Inc. prices
show. The gauge is down 6.2 basis points this month and set for
its lowest close since Aug. 9, according to CMA, which is owned
by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
credit quality. A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in  Singapore  at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  