-- Booz Allen to Lockheed Win Part of $6 Billion Cyber Award
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m   a n d   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y
-- 2013-08-13T20:11:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/booz-allen-to-lockheed-win-part-of-6-billion-cyber-award.html
Booz Allen Hamilton Holding Corp. (BAH) 
and 16 other companies won a $6 billion contract that may become
the biggest unclassified cybersecurity agreement in the U.S.
government.  The list of suppliers announced today includes  Lockheed
Martin Corp. (LMT) ,  SAIC Inc. (SAI) ,  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  and  General
Dynamics Corp. (GD)  They will help the Department of  Homeland
Security  develop a shopping hub for federal, state and local
agencies seeking to shield their computer networks from hackers.  The program is valued at as much as $6 billion during as
many as five years. While it might not reach that amount, its
potential size and scope has drawn the attention of dozens of
companies at a time when the $512 billion federal contracting
market is shrinking.  “This is a key contract” for Homeland Security, William Loomis, Baltimore-based managing director at Stifel Nicolaus &
Co Inc., said in an interview.  Today’s announcement probably will be followed by the
“inevitable round of protests” from the losing companies,
which would delay the start of work, he said.  One of the big winners is McLean, Virginia-based  Booz
Allen , which has been under the spotlight since former employee
and National Security Agency contractor Edward Snowden leaked
classified information about U.S. surveillance programs.  Booz Allen will offer tools and services that will allow
federal agencies to automatically be alerted to cybersecurity
threats,  Chris Kelly , the company’s executive vice president,
said in an e-mailed statement.  ‘Cyber Landscape’  “The cyber landscape in which federal agencies operate is
a constantly changing and dynamic environment and threats to the
nation’s information security continue to evolve,” Kelly said.  The agreement announced by the U.S. General Services
Administration are under a multiple-award contract, which means
a pool of suppliers is chosen rather than a single provider.
Once picked, contractors bid against each other for orders as
specific needs arise.  The suppliers include  Computer Sciences Corp. (CSC) ,
International Business Machines Corp. and  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) 
Also part of the deal are  Dynamics Research Corp. (DRCO) ,  ManTech
International Corp. (MANT) , SRA International Inc. and  Kratos Defense &
Security Solutions Inc. (KTOS)   Five other contractors made the list: Technica Corp., CGI
Federal Inc., Knowledge Consulting Group Inc., Digital
Management Inc. and MicroTech.  Central Hubs  Loomis said the number of companies that won the work was
higher than he had anticipated, though he said it would
encourage competition.  The suppliers will provide central hubs through which
government agencies can buy computer hardware and software as
well as consulting services to help manage employees’ access to
networks, according to the government’s Dec. 10 request for
bids.  The “program will help transform the way federal and other
government entities manage their cyber networks,” Anne Altman,
general manager for Armonk, New York-based IBM’s federal
business, said in a statement.  State and local agencies also could benefit from the
consistency, pricing and purchasing speed that federal agencies
will gain under the program, Altman said.  While Loomis said the number of companies that won the work
was higher than he had anticipated, he said it would encourage
competition. Loomis said he believes Homeland Security officials
are “keeping their options open.”  Digital Attacks  “This is really the start of work to be done that will be
subsequently competed and won in varying amounts by the
companies” that have now been approved, Carter Copeland, New
York-based director of global aerospace and defense research at
Barclays Plc, said in an interview.  The contract follows accusations from senior Obama
administration officials that the Chinese government is behind
digital attacks against the U.S.  President  Barack Obama  issued an executive order in
February directing the Homeland Security Department to ensure
that government networks are constantly scanned for threats,
defended from attacks and audited for performance to verify that
federal agencies are complying with computer-security rules.  The program is designed for civilian government agencies,
though it also will be available to the Defense Department and
intelligence agencies, according to the federal request for
bids.  Congress appropriated $202 million to the Homeland Security
Department for the program during the current fiscal year ending
Sept. 30, which equates to $185 million after automatic U.S.
spending cuts under a process known as sequestration. The
department has requested $168 million for the program in fiscal
2014.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Ivory in Washington at 
 divory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  