-- Boston Bomb Suspect’s Friends Plead Not Guilty in Case
-- B y   J a n e l l e   L a w r e n c e   a n d   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2013-08-13T18:30:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/boston-bomb-suspect-s-friends-plead-not-guilty-in-case.html
Two friends of  Boston  Marathon
bombing suspect Dzhokhar Tsarnaev pleaded not guilty to charges
that they tried to obstruct a federal investigation into the
case by destroying evidence.  Dias Kadyrbayev and Azamat Tazhayakov, both 19, entered
pleas at an arraignment in federal court in Boston today on
three counts of obstructing justice and aiding and abetting.
They were arrested April 20 and are being held without bail.  Both men appeared in court wearing prison-issued orange
jumpsuits and waived a reading of the indictment. Assistant U.S.
Attorney Stephanie Siegmann told U.S. Magistrate Judge Marianne Bowler that she expects the trial to last two weeks and the
government will call 15 to 20 witnesses. Bowler scheduled a
status hearing for Sept. 26.  On April 15, two explosions occurred in Boston near the
finish line of the annual marathon, killing three people and
injuring more than 200. Three days later, the FBI published
images of the principal suspects, Dzhokhar Tsarnaev and his
brother, Tamerlan.  Kadyrbayev and Tazhayakov, citizens of  Kazakhstan  who
attended the  University of Massachusetts  in Dartmouth with
Dzhokhar, saw the images online and recognized their friend,
prosecutors said. They went to Tsarnaev’s dormitory, removed his
laptop computer and a backpack containing fireworks and a jar of
Vaseline and brought the items to their apartment in  New
Bedford , Massachusetts, according to the indictment.  Trash Bin  The backpack was placed in a garbage bag and put in a trash
bin, according to the prosecutors. The  Federal Bureau of
Investigation  recovered it from a landfill about a week later.  One of the suspects told the other that Tsarnaev had used
the Vaseline to make bombs, according to the indictment. Also,
the suspects saw that the fireworks had been opened and emptied
of powder, according to court records.  Also arrested was Robel Phillipos, 19, another friend of
Tsarnaev’s who the FBI said accompanied the other two to the
dorm room and removed the items. He was charged with making
false statements to federal investigators. According to a court
filing, he’s in plea negotiations with the government.  Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, a native of Chechnya in  Russia , was
arrested April 19 in Watertown,  Massachusetts , hiding in a boat
after Tamerlan was killed in a shootout with police.  Dzhokhar pleaded not guilty on July 10 to 30 counts,
including murder, and could face the death penalty if convicted.
Prosecutors said the brothers were motivated by the radical
Islamic group al-Qaeda.  The obstruction case is U.S. v. Kadyrbayev, 13-cr-10238,
U.S. District Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston). The
bombing case is U.S. v. Tsarnaev, 13-cr-10200, U.S. District
Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Janelle Lawrence in federal court in Boston
at   jlawrence62@bloomberg.net ;
Don Jeffrey in  New York  at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  