-- BP Sues EPA Over Suspension From Future U.S. Contracts
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2013-08-13T00:22:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/bp-sues-epa-over-suspension-from-future-u-s-contracts.html
BP Plc (BP/)  sued the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency over its suspension from new federal
government contracts following the company’s guilty plea to a
pollution charge over the Gulf of Mexico oil spill.  BP, based in  London , said the U.S. government continued to
buy fuel from and sell oil leases to the company “for more than
two and a half years after the Deepwater Horizon accident on
April 20, 2010,” according to a complaint filed today in
federal court in Houston.  The company said 21 BP entities were suspended “without
any prior notice” in November 2012, and its exploration and
production unit was disqualified from all federal contracts in
February, after that unit pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor
violation of the U.S. Clean Water Act tied to the worst offshore
spill in U.S. history.  The EPA’s suspensions and disqualification “are contrary
to federal law and regulations, exceed EPA’s statutory and
regulatory authority and limitations, are unsupported and
contradicted by the record in this matter” and abuse the
agency’s discretion, BP said in the filing.  The company seeks a court order voiding the EPA’s decisions
and barring related enforcement actions.  As of last month, BP is supplying fuel, lubricants and
fueling services to U.S. government entities at home and abroad
under contracts with a projected value of more than $1.2
billion, according to the complaint.  54 Leases  BP also said that since the spill, it has acquired 54 new
offshore leases, all for exploration in the deep-water  Gulf of
Mexico . The EPA’s actions potentially block the company’s access
to billions of dollars in new contracts in both business areas.  BP’s lawsuit names EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy and
Richard Pelletier, the agency’s suspension and debarment chief,
as defendants in their official capacities. BP claims Pelletier
illegally considered company actions that predated the Deepwater
Horizon incident in his decision to suspend the company’s access
to new federal contracts.  Wyn Hornbuckle, a Justice Department spokesman, declined to
comment on the lawsuit.  The case is BP Exploration & Production Co. Inc. v.
McCarthy, 4:13-cv-O2349, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of  Texas  (Houston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  