-- Brazil Soccer Body May Lose Half of Profit in Bank Failure
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o
-- 2013-08-13T18:16:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/brazil-soccer-body-may-lose-half-of-2012-profit-in-bank-failure.html
Brazil ’s soccer federation may lose
half its 2012 profit following the collapse of a bank that had
been at the center of a government graft scandal, according to a
person familiar with the matter.  Confederacao Brasileira de Futebol , or CBF, deposited about
30 million reais ($13.14 million) with Belo Horizonte-based
Banco Rural over the last decade, said the person, who asked not
to be identified because the information is private. Brazil’s
central bank liquidated Rural this month citing “serious”
legal violations.  The potential loss of its investments in Rural is happening
as CBF, the private body that controls Brazil’s national team,
prepares for the  World Cup  next year when Brazil hosts sports’
most-watched event and seeks a record-extending sixth title.
Rural, which specialized in lending to small and medium-size
companies, was closed after “successive losses generated
abnormal risk to creditors,” the central bank said Aug. 2.  Rural executives, including former Chief Executive Officer
Katia Rabello, were convicted last year by the  Supreme Court  of
 money laundering  and mismanagement of a financial institution as
part of the high court’s ruling in the so-called Mensalao case.  Officials from the ruling Workers’ Party -- including
former cabinet chief Jose Dirceu under President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva  -- were found guilty by the  Supreme Court  of using
embezzled public funds and fraudulent loans from Rural to buy
votes in the Congress from 2003 to 2005.  2012 Sales  Folha de S.Paulo  said the CBF’s chief financial officer and
treasurer were fired. “This is an internal situation and we are
not making any comment,” said a CBF official, who requested
anonymity in line with the organization’s policy.  CBF, which had 2012 sales of 382 million reais and net
income of 55.6 million reais, risks losing the majority of its
money held at Banco Rural because of the terms of the bank’s
liquidation. The central bank declined to comment, according to
an e-mailed statement.  Brazil’s deposit insurance fund guarantees Rural’s
certificate of deposit, local agricultural letters of credit and
deposits of as much as 250,000 reais. Amounts above 250,000
reais will be evaluated by the liquidator, according to a Rural
statement on its web page. The deposit insurance fund also
guarantees investments in the so-called DPGE, a local bank note,
of as much as 20 million reais.  Rural was the eighth Brazilian mid-size bank liquidated by
the central bank or bailed out by deposit insurance fund since
2010 in the wake of the financial crisis. Banco Panamericano SA
was the first to be rescued after authorities investigated it on
accounting irregularities.  The majority of the CBF’s banking is done with sponsor
Banco Itau, said the person with knowledge of the matter. Banco
Itau paid 30.1 million reais to sponsor the CBF, and the Brazil
soccer team, in 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ;
Francisco Marcelino in  Sao Paulo  at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  