-- Brazil’s Swap Rates Climb as Currency Fuels Inflation Concern
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-08-13T12:49:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/brazil-s-swap-rates-climb-as-currency-fuels-inflation-concern.html
Brazil ’s swap rates rose for a
second day as concern grew that a weaker currency will fuel
inflation and compel the central bank to extend its cycle of
interest-rate increases.  Swap rates on the contract due in January 2015 jumped 12
basis points, or 0.12 percentage point to 9.84 percent at 9:47
a.m. in Sao Paulo after rising 12 basis points yesterday. The
real declined for a second day, falling 0.5 percent to 2.2997
per dollar.  Consumer inflation in Brazil will probably accelerate this
month and the decline in the real is undoubtedly fueling price
increases, Carlos Hamilton, the central bank’s economic policy
director, said at an event in Belem yesterday. The real has lost
13 percent in the past three months, the most among major
emerging-market currencies, boosting the cost of imports.  “The drop in food prices and weak demand helped inflation
in the short term, but the currency is a long-term factor that’s
worrying,” Flavia Cattan-Naslausky, a strategist at Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc, said by phone from  Stamford ,  Connecticut .
“The stronger dollar is prevailing.”  Annual inflation slowed to 6.27 percent in July from 6.70
percent in June, according to the national statistics agency.
The central bank targets annual price increases of 4.5 percent,
plus or minus two percentage points.  Policy makers have embarked on the biggest cycle of
interest-rate increases among Group of 20 nations to curb
inflation. The central bank raised the target lending rate by a
half-percentage point on July 10 to 8.50 percent, the third
consecutive rise this year. Rates were at a record low 7.25
percent before this year’s increases began in April.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in  Sao Paulo  at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  