-- Buffett-Backed Heinz Cuts 600 Jobs, Pushes Accountability
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-08-13T17:09:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/buffett-backed-heinz-cuts-600-jobs-pushes-accountability.html
HJ Heinz Co., the ketchup maker
taken private this year by  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A)  and  Jorge Paulo Lemann ’s 3G Capital, said it’s cutting 600
office jobs in the U.S. and Canada.  More than half the reduction will be in Pittsburgh, where
Heinz is based, according to an e-mailed statement today from
 Michael Mullen , a spokesman. The ketchup maker will still employ
800 people in the city and 6,000 in  North America , he said.  The cuts “will better position the company to support and
fund our next chapter,” Mullen wrote. “Our new organizational
structure will simplify, strengthen and leverage the company’s
global scale, while enabling faster decision making, increased
accountability, and accelerated growth.”  Buffett, 82, is betting on 3G to expand the ketchup maker
after the $23.3 billion takeover. He said in May that he agreed
to the acquisition because of his confidence in Lemann’s firm.
Heinz’s new Chief Executive Officer Bernardo Hees shook up
management in June, announcing the departure of 11 top
executives weeks after completing the deal.  Berkshire and 3G each contributed about $4 billion to get
half the equity in Heinz’s new holding company. In addition,
Buffett committed $8 billion for preferred shares that pay a 9
percent dividend.  Affected employees will get “enhanced severance benefits”
and help with finding new work, Mullen said. The  Associated
Press  previously reported on the Heinz job cuts.  Lemann’s company has shaken up management in past deals.
Within two months of buying Burger King Holdings Inc. in October
2010, 3G cut 413 jobs, including workers at headquarters in
Miami. It also said it would reduce spending on travel, rent and
other items to save $30 million to $40 million a year.  Burger King’s employee count fell about 12 percent to
34,248 from mid-2010 through 2011, according to  regulatory
filings . Lemann’s firm sold part of its stake in the chain last
year in an initial public offering.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  