-- Canada Dollar Falls for Second Day on Bets Economy Trailing U.S.
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-08-13T21:13:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/canadian-dollar-falls-on-speculation-u-s-economy-pulling-ahead.html
The Canadian dollar weakened for a
second day after a report showed U.S. retail sales rose for a
fourth straight month, adding to signs the nation’s economy is
falling behind that of its biggest trading partner.  The currency slid after  Canada  said last week the economy
 lost  39,400 jobs in July, versus the gain of 10,000 forecast in
a Bloomberg survey. The nation’s 10-year bond yields climbed to
a two-year high. The  U.S. dollar  rallied against its major peers
on bets the  Federal Reserve  will start slowing bond buying as
soon as next month as the world’s biggest economy improves.  “The fact the U.S. consumer is holding his own does help
to provide more confidence in the private-sector recovery, which
would make the Fed feel they could take their foot off the
accelerator,” said  David Tulk , chief macro strategist at
Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD Securities unit, by phone from
Toronto. “A slower pace of asset purchases by the Fed does
provide U.S. dollar strength, and Canada does unfortunately get
caught in the crossfire.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is nicknamed for the
image of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, depreciated 0.4
percent to C$1.0343 per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. One
loonie buys 96.68 U.S. cents.  The currency sank after failing yesterday for a second day
to close stronger than its 100-day moving average, a momentum
indicator some traders see as a potential turning point. It
touched C$1.0281, compared with the C$1.0279 average.  Market ‘Wary’  “The market for the time being is a little wary about the
Canadian economy, based on the job prints, and I think we’re
going to end up having a higher dollar/weaker Canada in the near
term,” said Darcy Browne, managing director of currencies at
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce’s CIBC World Markets unit in
Toronto.  The loonie will fall to C$1.05 to the U.S. dollar by year-end, according to the median forecast of 62 analysts and
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Yields (GCAN10YR)  on benchmark Canadian 10-year bonds climbed as much
as 10 basis points, or 0.10 percentage point, to 2.63 percent,
the highest level since August 2011. The price of the 1.5
percent securities due in June 2023 slid 72 cents to C$90.36.  The  Bank of Canada  will sell C$2.8 billion ($2.7 billion)
of 10-year bonds tomorrow. The 2.5 percent securities mature in
June 2024.  Futures on crude oil, Canada’s largest export, gained 0.4
percent to $106.52 per barrel in  New York . The  discount  Canadian
producers face on their heavy crude oil versus U.S. benchmarks
remained at almost the widest since May at $23 a barrel.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of advanced 0.3 percent.  Fed Bets  The U.S. dollar climbed after the Commerce Department said
 retail sales  increased 0.2 percent in July, after a revised 0.6
percent gain in June that was bigger than previously reported.  The data added to speculation the U.S. central bank will
slow its quantitative-easing stimulus program amid economic
growth. The Fed buys $85 billion per month of bonds to pump
money into the economy and hold down borrowing costs. Central-bank asset purchases tend to devalue a currency.  Policy makers may start slowing the pace of buying at any
of their next three meetings, Atlanta Fed Bank President  Dennis
Lockhart , who has backed the stimulus program, said today in a
speech in Atlanta.  ‘First Step’  “A decision to proceed -- whether it is in September,
October or December -- ought to be thought of as a cautious
first step,” and will depend on the data, Lockhart said.  Half of 54 economists surveyed by Bloomberg last month said
the Fed may decide at its Sept. 17-18 policy meeting to reduce
the pace to $65 billion a month.  The  U.S. economy  has added an average 192,000 jobs a month
this year through July, the fastest pace since 2005, Labor
Department data show.  Expectations for an end to the Fed’s asset purchases and
faster growth in the American economy have helped Treasury 10-year notes maintain a yield  advantage  over their Canadian peers
since May, increasing the attractiveness of those securities,
data compiled by Bloomberg showed. The  U.S. debt  yielded nine
basis points more than the Canadian today.  “We are confidently playing the yield differential, which
is currently supporting the U.S. dollar across the board, and
that has the loonie trading on the back foot,” said  Dean Popplewell , head analyst at the online currency trading firm
Oanda Corp., by phone from Toronto. “The U.S. dollar is
appreciating right across the board.”  The Canadian dollar fell 1.9 percent in the past three
months against nine other developed-nation currencies tracked by
the Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Index. The U.S. dollar
declined 0.1 percent, and the Australian dollar was the biggest
loser, dropping 8.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  