-- Carl Icahn Discloses ‘Large’ Stake in Apple in Tweet
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2013-08-13T21:45:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/carl-icahn-discloses-large-stake-in-apple-in-tweet.html
Billionaire investor  Carl Icahn  said
he has built up a stake in  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , ramping up the pressure
from activist shareholders who want to wring changes out of the
world’s most valuable technology company.  “We currently have a large position in Apple. We believe
the company to be extremely undervalued,” Icahn wrote in a
posting on Twitter Inc.’s website. He added that he spoke to
Apple Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  today and discussed his
view that a larger stock buyback should be done now. “We plan
to speak again shortly,” he said.  Icahn, who has built up positions in other technology
companies including  Dell Inc. (DELL) , is making a foray into Apple
after the company has already embarked on one of the largest
share-buyback programs in history. The move poses a new
challenge for CEO Cook, who earlier was forced to respond to
investors such as hedge-fund manager  David Einhorn  who wanted
the company to return more cash to shareholders. Apple’s stock
has slumped 22 percent over the past year amid investor concerns
about slowing growth and whether it can produce new hit
products.  The  shares  of the Cupertino, California-based company rose
4.8 percent to $489.57, after earlier jumping as much as 5.8
percent to an intraday high of $494.66, the highest price since
Jan. 23.  “We appreciate the interest and investment of all our
shareholders,” said Steve Dowling, a spokesman for Apple, in an
e-mailed statement. “Tim had a very positive conversation with
Mr. Icahn today.”  Icahn’s Stake  The investor’s stake in Apple is more than $1 billion -- or
less than a quarter of a percentage point of the company’s
$444.8 billion market capitalizaion -- and he accumulated the
position over the past month, said a person with knowledge of
the purchase who asked not to be named because the investment
was made privately. Icahn projects Apple’s stock can rise to
more than $600 and considers Cook a good CEO, said the person,
adding that the investor prefers a buyback to a dividend.  “They have so much cash and they could borrow money,”
Icahn said in an interview. “Even if the earnings and multiple
stay the same, the stock value is greatly enhanced by the
buyback.”  Apple investors cheered Icahn’s move. With updates to the
iPhone and iPad coming this year and other new products expected
in 2014, Apple is poised to return to growth, said  David Rolfe ,
chief investment officer at Wedgewood Partners, which manages $5
billion and owns Apple shares.  “Welcome to the undervalued Apple party, Mr. Icahn,”
Rolfe said in an interview. “It has been a tough year and a
tough time for Apple shareholders.”  New Products  Apple is set to debut a new iPhone on Sept. 10, followed by
another unveiling this year of an updated lineup of iPads,
according to people with knowledge of the plans.  “We are coming in to the usual Apple product-refresh cycle
and there will be rising excitement,” said  Michael Obuchowski ,
an investor with North Shore Asset Management LLC. “He’s
getting in close to the low in Apple’s stock price.”  Cook has shown a willingness to meet investor demands.
After facing earlier pressure from investors including Einhorn,
Apple in April increased its payout and boosted its stock
repurchase plan. Last month, the company said it bought back $16
billion from investors last quarter. Apple, which plans to
return $100 billion to investors by 2015, had $146.6 billion in
cash and investments at the end of June.  Technology Rewards  At Dell, Icahn is opposing founder  Michael Dell  and Silver
Lake Management LLC’s plan to take the computer maker private.
He also has stakes in  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) ,  Nuance Communications Inc. (NUAN) 
and  WebMD Health Corp. (WBMD) , and has previously taken positions and
pushed for changes at mobile-phone maker Motorola Inc. and at
Web portal  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)   Some of these investments have reaped rewards for Icahn.
Netflix stock, which has gained 180 percent so far this year,
has given him a profit of more than a $1 billion, he told the
Wall Street Journal in May.  In 2011, after Icahn urged Motorola to explore alternatives
for its patent portfolio, the company agreed to be acquired by
Google Inc. for $12.5 billion, or a 63 percent premium to what
the stock was trading at before a deal was announced.  Icahn’s Apple investment shows the increased use of Twitter
in the financial world. The billionaire investor said in a
recent regulatory filing that he will occasionally use the
service to share thoughts. He has previously used Twitter to
write about his battle with Dell.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  