-- Carr’s Milling Reaches 22-Year High on Animal Feed: London Mover
-- B y   E s h e   N e l s o n
-- 2013-08-13T14:24:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/carr-s-milling-reaches-22-year-high-on-animal-feed-london-mover.html
Carr’s Milling Industries Plc (CRM) , a
British producer of  animal feed , rose to the highest price since
at least 1991 after harsh U.S. and U.K. weather boosted demand
for its manufactured feed blocks in place of harvested crops.  The  shares gained  as much as 8.1 percent to 1,540 pence and
were up 6 percent at 3:21 p.m. in  London . Trading volume was
more than four times the three-month daily average.  Carr’s has advanced about 21 percent since July 15, when it
said that the U.K.’s cold winter, and a harsh winter and
droughts in the U.S., improved sales of its feed and health
products for animals. The stock has had the second-biggest
advance in the last 12 months among the 11 companies in the FTSE
All-Share Food Producers Index, with a gain of 74 percent.  Carr’s, founded in 1831, also produces flour in an industry
it says is “plagued by over-capacity and volatile input
prices.” The shares may rise further as the Carlisle, England-based company opens a new mill in the port town of Kirkcaldy
that will provide easy access to overseas wheat, Phil Carroll,
an analyst at Shore Capital, said in an interview.  “The market’s been under pressure but Carr’s have just
invested in a brand new state-of-the-art mill, which will give
them a competitive advantage over market peers,” said Carroll,
who recommends buying the stock. “From a positioning point of
view they are in a healthy place going forward.”  The U.K. is on pace to import the most wheat since 1978 as
buyers increase stockpiles after a weak harvest, according to
the Agriculture & Horticulture Development Board.  The milling business is improving, while Carr’s is
generating more revenue from AminoMax, a protein nutrition
product for dairy cattle, the company said last month.  ‘Encouraging’ Reception  Carr’s is increasing investment at a  New York  factory to
boost production of AminoMax. The product has had an
“encouraging” reception from U.K. dairy farmers after the
company opened a plant in  England  in June.  Carr’s also  bought  Silver Springs, Nevada-based Western
Feed Supplements in June, giving the company access to dairy and
beef markets in the western U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eshe Nelson in London at 
 enelson32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  