-- CEZ Second-Quarter Earnings Slide 16% on Declining Power Prices
-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a
-- 2013-08-13T07:31:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/cez-second-quarter-earnings-slide-16-on-declining-power-prices.html
CEZ AS, the  Czech Republic ’s largest
electricity company, said second-quarter earnings fell 16
percent as power prices dropped and production declined.  Net income  slid to 10.8 billion koruna ($555 million) from
12.8 billion koruna a year earlier, the Prague-based company
said today in a statement. That matched the median estimate of
13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The Czech Republic’s longest recession on record has eroded
industrial demand for electricity, dragging down power prices.
CEZ has also seen its expansion plans set back by the collapse
of Prime Minister Petr Necas’s government in June, which
prompted the utility to postpone a decision on a reactor
supplier for its Temelin nuclear-plant extension.  Next-year electricity prices in  Germany , where CEZ sells
part of its output, have dropped 17 percent this year and sank
to an all-time low of 36.20 euros a megawatt-hour last week.  “Wholesale power prices continue to decline and the
political backdrop in the Czech Republic seems to have become
less stable,” James Brand, an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in
 London , said in a note before the results were published. “We
continue to forecast a strong decline in medium-term earnings as
lower wholesale prices feed through into reported numbers.”  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization fell 5 percent in the quarter to 20.9 billion
koruna, CEZ said. Sales rose 2 percent to 53.1 billion koruna.  Profit Forecast  The utility reiterated its full-year outlook, forecasting
net income of 37.5 billion koruna and Ebitda of 81 billion
koruna. The company also said today that the European Commission
had approved the sale of its Chvaletice coal-fired plant and it
expects to close the transaction early next month.  CEZ rose 0.4 percent to 443.5 koruna in Prague trading at
9:19 a.m. local time, paring its slump this year to 35 percent.  CEZ delayed a decision on picking the supplier of two new
reactors for Temelin after the government fell amid a scandal
over spying and bribery allegations. Westinghouse Electric Co.
and a Russian-Czech group led by Rosatom Corp. are vying for the
contract valued at $10 billion.  CEZ completed a 600-megawatt wind park in  Romania  in
November, boosting first-half Ebitda by about 600 million
koruna. Romania’s contribution to profit may fall in the second
half after the country slashed support for renewable energy last
month. CEZ’s wind farms will receive only one green certificate
for every megawatt-hour generated instead of two previously.  The company sells electricity output in advance to lock in
prices. It presold 72 percent of its 2014 production, 53 percent
of 2015 output and 22 percent of 2016 output, according to
today’s statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in Prague at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net  