-- CFR Jumps After Posting 89% Profit Gain in Q2: Santiago Mover
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2013-08-13T18:29:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/cfr-jumps-after-posting-89-profit-gain-in-q2-santiago-mover.html
CFR Pharmaceuticals SA,  Chile ’s
biggest drugmaker, rose the most in a month today after the
company said profit increased 89 percent in the second quarter
from a year earlier.  The 4 percent gain to 111.48 pesos was the most in Chile’s
IPSA index of most-traded shares as of 1:20 p.m. in Santiago.
The extra yield, or spread, investors demand to buy the
company’s bonds due in 2022 instead of U.S. Treasuries fell
eight basis points to 352 basis points, or 3.52 percentage
points.  Income from the company’s operations in Colombia leaped 307
percent in the first half from last year as CFR integrated
Laboratorio Franco Colombiano Lafrancol SAS, which it bought in
December. Laboratorio Franco is  Colombia ’s largest
pharmaceutical company.  “The second quarter results were very good,” Jaime
Achondo, head of trading at Santiago-based brokerage and asset
manager Finanzas y Negocios SA, said in a telephone interview
from Santiago. “This is a company that does things well. We’re
in it for the long-term and I lose no sleep holding the bonds.”  CFR stock fell 8.4 percent in a week last month after it
offered 12.9 billion rand ($1.3 billion) for Johannesburg-based
Adcock Ingram Holdings Ltd., to be partly funded by $750 million
of new shares.  Actis LLP, a London-based private-equity firm has proposed
a rival bid for Adcock, according to people familiar with the
matter. The South African company’s stock rose 2.7 percent to
67.75 rand today, below the 73.51 rand potential offer from CFR.  The biggest investor in Adcock,  South Africa ’s Public
Investment Corp., said last month it was concerned about the
valuation of CFR shares in the offer.  “The market thought CFR was overpaying for the company in
South Africa and that pushed the shares down a bit,” said
Arturo Curtze, an analyst at Vantrust Capital in Santiago.
“Today it’s reacting to the second quarter results.”  CFR has operations in  Latin America ,  Europe  and  Southeast
Asia . The combination with Adcock would create a company with
annual revenue of about $1.3 billion and an asset base of
approximately $2.1 billion. It would have a presence in more
than 23 countries and employ more than 10,000 people.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net . 