-- Chile Keeps Benchmark Rate at 5% After Growth Beat Forecasts
-- B y   J a v i e r a   Q u i r o g a
-- 2013-08-13T22:02:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/chile-keeps-benchmark-rate-at-5-after-growth-beat-forecasts.html
Chile  kept borrowing costs unchanged
for the 19th consecutive month after growth unexpectedly
accelerated for the second month in three in June.  Policy makers, led by bank President Rodrigo Vergara, held
the benchmark rate at 5 percent today, as forecast by 11 of 19
economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg. Eight analysts expected a
quarter-point reduction as consumer spending slows.  Economic growth in the world’s  biggest  copper producer beat
estimates in June, after disappointing analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg in the previous four months, led by the retail and
mining industries. Sustained growth, a drop in unemployment and
inflation within the target range are likely to extend the
longest period without a rate move in Chile since at least 1995,
Rodrigo Fuentes, an economist at the Universidad Catolica in
Santiago, said before today’s announcement.  “Consumption is still showing great dynamism, the
 unemployment rate  has declined and inflation expectations are
well anchored,” Fuentes told reporters yesterday at a news
conference held by the Monetary Policy Group, which meets
monthly to discuss the outlook for the benchmark  interest rate .  Traders in the swaps market expected the central bank to
remain on hold this month before cutting the rate to 4.5 percent
by November and to 4.25 percent by February of next year.  Growth Surprise  “The economy is slowing down, but the deceleration is
moderate,” Finance Minister Felipe Larrain told reporters in
Santiago today.  Chile’s Imacec  index , a proxy for gross domestic product,
rose 4.2 percent in June from the year earlier, above the 3.3
percent median forecast of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, the
central bank said Aug. 5.  One year swap rates rose to 4.54 percent on the day the
Imacec was announced from a 2 1/2-year low of 4.52 percent on
the previous trading day as traders pared bets the central bank
will cut interest rates today. The swap rate closed at 4.61
percent yesterday.  Adding to expectations rates will remain on hold today, the
jobless rate fell to 6.2 percent in the three months through
June.  Strong growth and evidence of an improvement in the global
environment, “implies that there aren’t sufficient reasons to
recommend a reduction in the current level of the benchmark
rate,” the Monetary Policy Group said in a statement yesterday.  Subdued Inflation  Inflation remains subdued, even after accelerating in the
past two months.  Consumer prices  rose 2.2 percent in July from
the year earlier, within the 2 percent to 4 percent target range
and up from 1.9 percent in June.  “ Consumer spending  continues to grow at a robust pace,
salaries are rising and moreover, inflation is low,” Larrain
said.  Still,  manufacturing  slid 2.7 percent in June from the same
month last year, its third year-on-year decline in four months.  Signs of slower growth led policy makers to debate a rate
cut at each of the last three meetings, according to the minutes
of the discussions. Minutes from today’s meeting will be
published Aug. 29.  Consumer demand is showing signs of easing after driving
expansion in the first half of the year.  Retail sales  growth
slowed to 7.7 percent in June from the year earlier, down from a
two-year high of 13.2 percent in May.  “We don’t see any reasons as to why the central bank
should maintain the rate,” said Cesar Guzman, an economist at
Banco Security in Santiago, who forecasts a quarter-point cut
today. “A while ago they justified their decision on strong
consumption, but those numbers have moderated.”  Economists expect the central bank to cut the key rate by
half a percentage point by December, according to a  survey  by
the central bank released yesterday.  Policy makers on July 1 reduced their estimate for economic
growth this year to between 4 percent and 5 percent from 4.5
percent to 5.5 percent.  “We expected a faster deceleration of Chile’s economic
Growth,” said Fuentes. “At the last meeting, we expected as
much, but now indicators make it very hard to predict a change”
in interest rates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Javiera Quiroga in Santiago at 
 jquiroga5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 