-- Chile Likely to Keep Rate on Hold after Economy Rebounded
-- B y   J a v i e r a   Q u i r o g a
-- 2013-08-13T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/chile-likely-to-keep-rate-on-hold-after-economy-rebounded.html
Chile’s central bank probably will
keep its key  interest rate  unchanged for the 19th consecutive
month today after growth unexpectedly rebounded in June.  Policy makers, led by bank President Rodrigo Vergara, will
hold the benchmark rate at 5 percent, according to 10 of 18
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The other eight expect a
quarter-point reduction as consumption eases. The central bank
will announce its decision after 6 p.m. in Santiago.  Economic growth in the world’s biggest  copper producer ,
after disappointing analysts surveyed by Bloomberg for four
straight months, beat estimates in June, led by retail and
mining. Sustained growth, a drop in unemployment and inflation
within the target range is likely to extend the longest period
without a rate move in Chile since at least 1995, said  Rodrigo
Fuentes , an economist at the Pontificia Universidad Catolica de
Chile in Santiago.  “Consumption is still showing great dynamism, the
 unemployment rate  has declined and inflation expectations are
well anchored,” Fuentes told reporters yesterday in a press
conference held by the Monetary Policy Group, which meets
monthly to discuss the outlook for the benchmark interest rate.  Traders in the swaps market expect the central bank board
to remain on hold this month before it cuts the rate to 4.5
percent by November and to 4.25 percent by February next year.  Growth Surprise  Chile’s  Imacec index , a proxy for gross domestic product,
rose 4.2 percent in June from the year earlier, above the 3.3
percent median forecast of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, the
central bank said on Aug. 5.  One-year swap rates rose to 4.54 percent on the day the
Imacec was announced from a 2 1/2-year low of 4.52 percent on
the previous day as traders pared bets the central bank will cut
interest rates today. The swap rate closed at 4.61 percent
yesterday.  Adding to expectations borrowing costs will remain on hold
today, the  jobless rate  fell to 6.2 percent in the three months
through June from 6.6 percent the year before.  Strong growth and evidence of an improvement in the global
environment “implies that there aren’t sufficient reasons to
recommend a reduction in the current level of the benchmark
rate,” the Monetary Policy Group said in a statement yesterday.  Inflation is picking up along with economic growth.
Consumer prices rose 2.2 percent in July from the year earlier,
within the 2 percent to 4 percent target range and up from 1.9
percent in June.  Cut Debate  Even as growth rebounded, manufacturing slid 2.7 percent in
June from the same month last year, its third annual decline in
four months.  Signs of slower growth led policy makers to debate a rate
cut at each of the last three meetings, according to the minutes
of the discussions. Minutes from today’s meeting are scheduled
to be published on Aug. 29.  Consumer demand is showing signs of easing after driving
the expansion in the first half of the year. Retail sales growth
slowed to 7.7 percent in June from the year earlier, down from a
two-year high of 13.2 percent in May.  “We don’t see any reasons as to why the central bank
should maintain the rate,” said Cesar Guzman, an economist at
Banco Security in Santiago, who forecasts a quarter-point cut
today. “A while ago they justified their decision on strong
consumption, but those numbers have moderated.”  Economists expect policy makers to cut the key rate by half
a percentage point by December, according to a survey by the
central bank released on July 10.  The forecast came one week after policy makers reduced
their estimate for economic growth this year to between 4
percent and 5 percent from 4.5 percent to 5.5 percent.  “We expected a faster deceleration of  Chile ’s economic
growth.” said Fuentes. “In our last reunion we thought this
would happen before, but now indicators make it very hard to
predict a change” in interest rates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Javiera Quiroga in Santiago at 
 jquiroga5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  