-- China Said to Mull Funding Rail for Rio’s Simandou Iron Project
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-13T04:04:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/china-said-to-mull-funding-rail-for-rio-s-simandou-iron-project.html
China  has begun looking at funding a
railway and port that would service  Rio (RIO)  Tinto Group’s Simandou
iron project in Guinea and cost more than $10 billion, said four
people with direct knowledge of the matter.  The agency overseeing companies owned by China’s central
government has gauged interest from state rail and port builders
and also contacted China Development Bank Corp. about providing
financing, said the people, who asked not to be identified as
they weren’t authorized to speak publicly about the matter.  Guinea’s inability to fund the rail line from its coast to
Simandou, described by Rio as the world’s largest untapped
deposit of  iron ore , has “effectively frozen” the project,
former mines minister  Mahmoud Thiam  said in April. State-owned
 Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd.  paid $1.35 billion for a 44.65
percent stake in the project in 2010 as part of the nation’s bid
to secure the resources needed to fuel its economy.  The Guinea government currently has an obligation to
finance 51 percent of the 650-kilometer (400-mile) railway and
port, which President  Alpha Conde  said in June the nation was
willing to pass to another party. Rio Chief Executive Officer
 Sam Walsh  said at briefing in  London  last week that the world’s
second-largest miner reached an agreement with Guinea that would
allow a third party to fully fund the transport links.  State Companies  China’s State-owned Assets Supervision & Administration
Commission is speaking to companies about the railway and port
project, the people said. It wasn’t clear which companies had
expressed interest, they said. Guinea has said it isn’t able to
fund the transport links and Rio has said it won’t provide any
additional money for the project, the people said.  Alkhaly Yamoussa Bangoura, mines adviser to Guinea’s
president, said by telephone yesterday that China was involved
in the project when ask if funding for the rail link may come
from the nation. He declined further comment.  Rio, which has had an interest in the ore-laden Simandou
mountain since 1997, has yet to export any ore from the site.
 Guinea  ordered the miner to give up part of its license area in
2008, leaving Rio with control of blocks 3 and 4. BSG Resources
Ltd. acquired rights to the sections Rio lost and then sold a 51
percent stake in that area to Vale SA in 2010 for $2.5 billion.  Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd., known as Chalco, signed an
agreement in July 2010 to form a venture with Rio for
development of its section. Under the agreement, Rio’s 95
percent stake in the project was placed into the venture. Chalco
paid $1.35 billion for 47 percent of the unit, thereby giving it
an effective 44.65 percent interest in the mine and Rio a 50.35
percent stake.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Steven Yang in Beijing at 
 kyang74@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  