-- Chinese Banks Rally in Hong Kong on Signs of Economy Stabilizing
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-13T10:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/chinese-banks-rally-in-hong-kong-on-signs-of-economy-stabilizing.html
Chinese banks rose in  Hong Kong  for
a second day after economic data signaled a recovery in growth,
easing concerns that bad loans will increase.  China Minsheng Banking Corp. (1988) , the nation’s first privately-owned lender, climbed 13.2 percent yesterday and today, the
biggest two-day gain since the stock began trading in Hong Kong
in November 2009.  China Merchants Bank Co. (3968)  rose 11.6 percent and
 Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. , the country’s third-biggest
lender, gained 9.6 percent. Hong Kong’s benchmark Hang Seng
Index rose 3.4 percent on this week’s first two trading days.  An acceleration in July industrial output and better than
expected increases in exports and imports signaled growth in the
world’s second-biggest economy is stabilizing. Lending data
released after markets closed Aug. 9 showed bank credit
accounting for the largest percentage of total financing since
September 2011, suggesting efforts to curb shadow banking are
taking effect, according to Daiwa Capital Markets Hong Kong Ltd.  The lending data is “helping alleviate investor concerns
over the risk of shadow banking,” Grace Wu, a Daiwa analyst in
Hong Kong, said by e-mail today.  An increase in less regulated lending outside the banking
system and borrowing by local governments has made it more
difficult to gauge  China ’s total outstanding debt, according to
Fitch Ratings’ Charlene Chu. Fitch cut China’s long-term local-currency debt rating in April, citing rising risks to the
country’s financial stability given the lack of transparency for
credit.  Bank Shares  Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Ltd., the nation’s
biggest lender, rose 6.2 percent in Hong Kong in two days.  China
Construction Bank Corp. (939)  climbed 6 percent and Bank of China Ltd.
gained 5.7 percent.  China  Merchants Bank  surged 7.2 percent today after the
Apple Daily newspaper reported that it may announce terms for a
35 billion yuan ($5.7 billion) share sale on Aug. 16. The bank
has postponed the sale twice.  Investors will be “relieved” by the news, Jim Antos, a
Hong Kong-based analyst at Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd., wrote in
a note today, raising his recommendation on China Merchants
Bank’s shares to neutral from underperform.  Agricultural Bank of China’s shares rose this week after
the  South China Morning Post  reported yesterday that it would
lend the city of Shanghai 250 billion  yuan . Such a loan may
indicate that China’s central government is ready to loosen
credit to boost economic growth, said Edmond Law, a Hong Kong-based analyst at UOB Kay Hian Ltd.  “Investors see overall macro improving,” Law said by
phone today. “That’s why they are buying the stock.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net ;
Nathaniel Espino in Beijing at 
 nespino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  