-- China Ramps Up U.S. Soybean Purchases to Make Up for Low Stocks
-- B y   A l e x   P a s h l e y
-- 2013-08-13T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/china-ramps-up-u-s-soybean-purchases-to-make-up-for-low-stocks.html
China , the world’s largest soybean
consumer, is accelerating American soybean purchases to
supplement inadequate domestic supply, Oil World said.  China bought a combined total of 330,000 metric tons of
soybeans on Aug. 6 and 7, to add to its record at the start of
August of 11.7 million tons, 1.7 million tons more than a year
earlier, the Hamburg-based researcher said in an e-mailed report
today.  China is predicted to increase imports of the oilseed by 8
million to 10 million tons in the 2013-14 season to compensate
for low stockpiles, Oil World said. Soybean prices on the
Chicago Board of Trade have dropped about 13 percent this year.  “Current total Chinese soybean stocks are still down by at
least 3-3.5 million tons from a year ago, despite the recent
sizable year-on-year increase in monthly imports,” Oil World
said. “This year’s Chinese soybean crop will continue to
decline, probably reaching the lowest in more than 20 years.”  Chinese soybean imports increased to a record 7.2 million
tons in July, Oil World said. That’s 23 percent more than a year
earlier and includes a correction of the underreported 6.93
million tons in June, according to the report.  India ’s soybean crop is “in trouble” after heavy rains
caused damage in Maharashtra and  Madhya Pradesh , the two major
producing regions, according to Oil World. Original crop
predictions of 12 million to 13.5 million tons for this year’s
yield may decline, following the poor weather in late July and
early August.  “Further developments will be watched closely,” Oil World
said. “It will determine the timing and magnitude of the Indian
soybean crushings as well as of soya meal production and export
supplies, which are expected to increase sharply from October
onward.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Pashley in London at 
 apashley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  