-- China Swap Rate Gains for Third Day on PBOC’s Cash Cut
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-13T03:06:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/china-swap-rate-gains-for-third-day-on-pboc-s-cash-cut.html
China ’s one-year interest-rate swap
rose by the most in three weeks as the central bank cut the
amount of cash it injected into the economy via reverse-repurchase operations.  The People’s Bank of China issued 11 billion  yuan  ($1.8
billion) of seven-day reverse repurchase agreements at a rate of
3.9 percent, according to a statement on its website today. That
compares with 12 billion yuan at 4 percent a week earlier, and
17 billion yuan at 4.4 percent on July 30.  “The central bank will continue to ensure relatively
stable short-term liquidity,” said Xu Hanfei, a Shanghai-based
bond analyst at Guotai Junan Securities Co., China’s third-largest brokerage. “But at the same time, it needs to tighten
at the long-end to ensure an overall neutral monetary policy.”  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repo rate, gained six basis
points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 3.96 percent as of 10:30
a.m. in Shanghai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
was the biggest increase since July 22.  The  overnight repurchase rate , a gauge of the availability
of cash in the banking system, climbed 22 basis points to 3.21
percent, according to a weighted average compiled by the
National Interbank Funding Center.  The central bank said in its second-quarter monetary policy
implementation report released Aug. 2 that it was rolling over
debt to reduce the cash supply. The PBOC rolled over 75.5
billion yuan of three-year notes yesterday at a rate of 3.5
percent, according to a  statement  posted on its website.  At least 70 billion yuan of financial and corporate bonds
and short-term bills will be issued on the interbank market
today, according to Bloomberg calculations based on data from
the websites of ChinaBond, ChinaMoney, and the  Shanghai  Clearing
House.  The yield on the government’s 3.38 percent notes due May
2023 rose two basis points to 3.9 percent, according to the
Interbank Funding Center. The  yield  on benchmark 10-year bonds
has averaged 3.56 percent this year, ChinaBond data show.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  