-- Citigroup Adds Tenney for Americas Prime Brokerage Sales
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2013-08-13T15:23:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/citigroup-adds-tenney-as-prime-brokerage-americas-sales-head-2-.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest
U.S. bank, hired David H. Tenney as a managing director and
regional head of sales for the Americas at its prime brokerage
unit, which provides services to hedge funds.  Tenney, who previously worked at Forester Capital LLC,
Russell Investments and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , will run
unified hedge-fund sales across prime brokerage, securities
lending and Delta One, the New York-based bank said today in a
statement. Delta One products are typically derivatives tied to
a group of securities. He will report to unit executives Alan Pace, David Murphy and John Gallo, according to the statement.  Citigroup Chief Executive Officer  Michael Corbat , 53, is
seeking to expand the bank’s prime brokerage as it pulls back
from other businesses. The unit provides financing to hedge-fund
clients while also helping the firms process trades and attract
investors. The lender hired Matthew Clark from Goldman Sachs
last month to head client solutions in the division.  “This appointment underscores our commitment to hiring the
highest-caliber talent as we continually look for ways to
enhance our client services and product offerings,” Pace said
in the statement.  Tenney replaces Keith Gertsen, who moved to Citigroup’s
private-banking division in February, Pace said in an telephone
interview. He starts at the end of the month, said Scott Helfman, a bank spokesman.  Hedge Funds  Tenney joined Goldman Sachs in 1986 and worked there for
about two decades, according to records from the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority. His roles included co-head of
research and co-head of the firm’s equity business in  Chicago ,
according to a 2001 statement.  “We’re taking someone with an equities and alternatives
background and putting them into a prime finance leadership
role,” Pace said in the interview. “He has strong
relationships with hedge funds and a knowledge of their needs.
This will continue to strengthen our position within the hedge-fund community.”  Tenney was most recently head of client relations at
Forester Capital, a Greenwich, Connecticut-based financial firm,
and led alternative investments at Russell Investments after
leaving Goldman Sachs in 2007, Citigroup said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  