-- CBA Posts Record Profit on Wealth Unit, Bad Debt Charge Fall
-- B y   N a r a y a n a n   S o m a s u n d a r a m
-- 2013-08-14T04:05:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/commonwealth-bank-profit-climbs-to-record-on-retail-banking.html
Commonwealth Bank of Australia , the
nation’s biggest lender, posted record second-half profit as
earnings from  wealth management  rose and bad-debt costs shrank.  Cash profit , which excludes one-time items, climbed to
A$4.04 billion ($3.68 billion) in the six months ended June 30
from A$3.54 billion a year earlier, the Sydney-based lender said
today. That beat the A$3.85 billion median estimate of seven
analysts  Bloomberg News  surveyed by telephone and e-mail.  The shares fell as the bank refrained from paying a special
dividend to maintain a capital level that Chief Executive
Officer Ian Narev described as “about right.” Narev has been
withholding part of the central bank’s interest-rate cuts and
trimming costs to bolster profit as loan growth cools amid a
slowing economy.  “It is a high-quality result filled with positives such as
revenue growth and higher trading income,” said  Chris Weston ,
chief market strategist at IG Markets Ltd. in  Melbourne . “The
one disappointment today was the dividend,” he said, adding
that an annual payout ratio at 75.5 percent was below
expectations.  CBA fell 1 percent to A$73.79 as of 1:59 p.m. in Sydney,
trimming gains this year to 19 percent compared with an 11
percent  increase  for the benchmark  S&P/ASX 200 (AS51)   index , which was
little changed today.  Final Dividend  The bank said it would pay a final  dividend  of A$2 a share,
taking the annual total to A$3.64, a 9 percent increase on the
previous year. Full-year cash profit climbed 10 percent to a
record A$7.82 billion, the lender said in a statement.  A higher payout or a special dividend “wasn’t right at the
moment. We have a capital level that is about right,”  Narev
said in conference call with analysts. “We have to manage
dividend policy for the long term.”  Core Tier 1 capital , a measure of the bank’s ability to
absorb losses, increased to 11 percent at the end of June from
10.3 percent in March. Statutory net profit for the second half
climbed 16 percent to A$4.02 billion, the bank said.  “It is good times for CBA,” Brett Le Mesurier, a Sydney-based analyst at BBY Ltd., said by telephone. “The results show
improving asset quality for now, which is a positive for the
sector, though we are expecting bad debt charges to rise with
the weaker economy.”  Growth Downgrade  The central bank cut its growth outlook last week as
 Australia  transitions from mining investment toward domestic
demand amid a peaking resources boom. It expects gross domestic
product will rise 2.25 percent in the year ending December,
slower than the 2.5 percent forecast three months earlier.  Australian employers unexpectedly cut payrolls by 10,200 in
July and unemployment held at an almost four-year high of 5.7
percent as fewer people sought work. The government on Aug. 2
predicted the jobless rate would rise to an 11-year high of 6.25
percent by July.  Retail banking profit  grew 3.5 percent to A$1.55 billion
with mortgages expanding 5 percent, CBA said. Institutional
banking and markets profit climbed 18 percent. Wealth management
profit advanced 19 percent.  The country’s largest banks lowered their benchmark
 mortgage rates  to the lowest since 2009 after the  Reserve Bank 
of Australia cut its key rate to a record 2.5 percent on Aug. 6.
The central bank has lowered the rate by 2.25 percentage points
since November 2011.  Mortgage Demand  Cheaper borrowing costs are beginning to stimulate mortgage
demand.  Outstanding home loans  in the country grew 4.6 percent
in the year ended June from a record low of 4.4 percent three
months earlier, central bank figures show.  Home prices  across
the nation’s eight biggest cities rose 2.4 percent in the three
months ended June 30, the most in more than three years, the
statistics bureau said on Aug. 6.  While units such as retail and wealth management gained
momentum, the year ending June 2014 is expected to be similar to
the previous year, Narev said. The bank expects mortgage growth
of 4 percent to 6 percent in 2014, Matt Comyn, head of the
retail bank, said in the call with analysts. It reported a 6
percent increase in outstanding home loans for the year.  Net interest margin, a measure of lending profitability,
expanded 7 basis points from the previous half to 2.17 percent
after the bank held on to part of the central bank rate cuts,
today’s report showed. It set aside A$466 million for bad debts,
14 percent less than a year earlier, the lender said.  Deposits grew A$26 billion and made up 63 percent of CBA’s
total funding as of June 30, the bank said. Australian lenders
are increasing deposits to ensure compliance with global
liquidity rules that begin in 2015.  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  is scheduled to
report third-quarter earnings on Aug. 16 and  National Australia
Bank Ltd. (NAB)  announces its quarterly results on Aug. 20.  Westpac
Banking Corp. (WBC)  doesn’t update investors on its quarterly
performance. At CBA, the fiscal year ends in June, compared with
September for its main competitors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Narayanan Somasundaram in Sydney at 
 nsomasundara@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  