-- Companies in U.S. Kept Inventories Lean in June as Sales Rose
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2013-08-13T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/companies-in-u-s-kept-inventories-lean-in-june-as-sales-rose.html
Inventories at U.S. companies were
little changed in June as sales improved, signaling
manufacturers will be growing orders.  Stockpiles (MTIBCHNG)  held at around $1.66 billion after dropping 0.1
percent in May, the Commerce Department reported today in
 Washington . The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey projected
a 0.2 percent advance. Sales rose 0.2 percent in June.  Companies may gain confidence to replenish stockpiles as
consumer demand for housing, automobiles and clothing improves.
Merchants had enough goods on hand in June to last 1.29 months
at the current sales pace, matching the previous month. The last
time the ratio was lower was a year ago.  The median  forecast  for business inventories was based on a
Bloomberg survey of 44 economists. Estimates ranged from a 0.1
percent decline to a gain of 0.5 percent. The May figure was
revised from an originally reported 0.1 percent increase.  Another Commerce Department report today showed  retail
sales  rose in July for a fourth consecutive month, showing the
economy is breaking free of the effects of higher taxes and
 federal budget  cuts. The 0.2 percent increase followed a 0.6
percent gain in June that was larger than previously reported.
The measure of demand that feeds into gross domestic product
climbed by the most this year.  Retailers’ stockpiles, the only part of today’s inventory
report not previously released, rose 0.1 percent in June while
sales jumped 0.8 percent.  The value of inventory at  motor vehicle  and parts dealers
increased 0.5 percent as demand climbed 2.9 percent.  Factory inventories rose 0.1 in June, while wholesaler
stockpiles dropped 0.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  