-- Consumer Cost Protection in Obama Health Plan Is Delayed
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2013-08-13T16:00:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/consumer-cost-protection-in-obama-health-plan-is-delayed.html
Federal regulators have delayed a
consumer protection in President  Barack Obama ’s signature health
law that limits the out-of-pocket costs of people with
insurance.  The one-year postponement of the annual limit on costs that
patients must pay above what their insurance covers is another
setback for a health-care law that has met resistance from
Republicans and faced delays in enforcement of other key
provisions.  The White House announced on July 3 that it would postpone,
also for one year, the so-called employer mandate, which
requires companies with 50 or more workers to provide health
insurance to employees.  The limit on out-of-pocket costs, such as deductibles and
co-payments, was supposed to be $6,350 for an individual and
$12,700 for a family beginning in 2014. Federal officials now
will allow some insurers to wait until 2015 to comply with the
consumer protection.  The one-year postponement applies only to group health
plans such as those offered by employers and unions and only to
plans which use independent managers to handle pharmaceutical or
other benefits, said an administration official who asked not to
be identified speaking about internal deliberations.  Individual policies sold in the new marketplaces created by
the health care law still must comply on schedule with the
overall limits on out-of-pocket costs included in the health
care law, the official said.  Group Plans  Regulators decided to give the group plans an extra year so
they would have more time to connect computer systems used by
independent benefit managers that handle separate categories of
expenses, said the officials. Many group health plans, for
example, use an independent manager to handle prescription drug
coverage and their computer systems do not coordinate on annual
out-of-pocket maximums.  Notification of the delay in enforcing the provision was
made in a list of “frequently asked questions”  posted  on the
Department of Labor’s Employee Benefits Security Administration
website in February and first widely reported today by the  New
York  Times.  According to the website, at least for next year, insurers
can maintain separate out-of-pocket maximums for different types
of benefits, up to the legal maximum for each category.  Consequently, an individual may have to pay $6,350 for
doctors’ services and hospital care and another $6,350 for
 prescription drugs  under a plan administered by a pharmacy
benefit manager.  The administration also confronts a Republican campaign to
disrupt the start of the insurance marketplaces that are at the
core of the law.  Republican-run legislatures and governors in at least 21
states have refused funding to expand Medicaid coverage for the
poor and 27 have declined to set up the insurance exchanges,
leaving that job to the federal government, according to the
 Kaiser Family Foundation . Since it was signed into law by Obama
in 2010,  House Republicans  have voted 40 times to repeal or deny
funding for all or parts of the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act and have denied additional money to start
the marketplaces.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  