-- Copper Trades Near Two-Month High Ahead of U.S., European Data
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-13T07:32:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/copper-trades-near-two-month-high-ahead-of-u-s-european-data.html
Copper traded near the highest level
in two months before U.S. and European data projected to buoy
economic sentiment.  Futures for delivery in three months on the London Metal
Exchange rose 0.3 percent to $7,269 a metric ton at 3:11 p.m. in
 Shanghai  after trading between gains and losses. The metal
touched $7,318.50 yesterday, the highest since June 7.  U.S. retail sales probably climbed for a fourth month in
July, while industrial output in the euro region is estimated to
have risen the most in June since 2011, according to surveys of
economists by Bloomberg before data due today. Earlier today,
 Japan  reported that its core machine orders beat expectations,
falling 2.7 percent in June from May, compared with expectations
for a 7 percent drop.  “The market will waver and struggle for direction until
early September when more economic indicators provide a clearer
picture,” said Xu Liping, an analyst at HNA Topwin Futures Co.
Xu said that while U.S. and European data were likely to be
positive, investors were still concerned about the longer-term
impact from  China ’s slowdown.  Annual growth in the world’s biggest consumer of copper is
expected to be below 7 percent for the next year, chief China
economist Zhang Zhiwei at Nomura Holdings Inc. said during an
interview today. The metal has fallen 8.2 percent this year.  Copper for  delivery in December  on the Shanghai Futures
Exchange fell 0.4 percent to 52,120  yuan  ($8,512) a ton at
today’s close. Metal for delivery in September was little
changed at $3.3070 a pound on the Comex in  New York .  On the LME, nickel rose, tin fell and aluminum, zinc and
lead were little changed.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Alfred Cang in Shanghai at 
 acang@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  