-- Costliest Mickey Mouse Bonds Refuting Detroit Shock: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a   a n d   T o l u s e   O l o r u n n i p a
-- 2013-08-13T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/costliest-mickey-mouse-bonds-refuting-detroit-shock-muni-credit.html
Municipal-bond investors seeking
refuge from  Detroit ’s record bankruptcy may find it in Florida’s
Reedy Creek Improvement District, which helps keep  Walt Disney
Co. (DIS) ’s Magic Kingdom running and is planning its biggest
borrowing since at least 1990.  The 40-square-mile Reedy Creek, based in Lake Buena Vista
and home to the Walt Disney World Resort, relies on the
entertainment company’s affiliates for 89 percent of its taxes.
About 85 percent of Florida bonds sold to finance housing
developments have defaulted since 2008. Yet the district has
seen the extra yield on its debt over benchmark munis fall to
the lowest level since April, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Reedy Creek plans to borrow $384 million this week to help
finance road improvements. Disney’s support will benefit the
issue, said Justin Land, who helps manage $3 billion of munis at
Wasmer Schroeder & Co. and said he’s buying district bonds.  “There are numerous U.S. corporations that are better
credits than some cities and counties, and Disney is one of
them,” he said.  Burbank, California-based Disney owns two-thirds of the
land in the district, where only 31 residents live, according to
offering documents. The resort near  Orlando  played host to a
record 57 million visitors in 2012. Disney shares increasing
about  28 percent  this year through yesterday should also
encourage Reedy Creek investors, Land said.  Disney Favored  “As Disney goes, so goes Reedy Creek,” he said in a
telephone interview from Naples,  Florida . The sale may feature
tighter spreads to benchmark debt “than their rating would
otherwise indicate,” he said.  Investors in local debt have favored higher-grade bonds
since Detroit filed the biggest U.S. municipal bankruptcy last
month and as individuals continued to pull money from tax-exempt
mutual funds. Top-rated munis have lost 4 percent in the past
three months, half the decline of BBB securities in the period,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show.  Developers in Florida took advantage of rising home prices
to set up districts that sold tax-exempt securities before the
18-month recession that started in 2007. They were dubbed dirt
bonds because they were secured by levies and special
assessments on land. The debt is among the riskiest in the $3.7
trillion municipal market, with much of it offered without a
rating. Defaults soared when the housing bubble burst.  Reedy Creek was created 46 years ago as a special taxing
district and functions like a local government. The move helped
jump-start Disney World’s development without burdening
taxpayers in the unit’s territory in Orange and Osceola
counties.  Rated Higher  The district is rated higher than the company that pays
most of its taxes.  Standard & Poor’s  upgraded Reedy Creek last
week to A+, its fifth-highest level. Moody’s Investors Service
and Fitch Ratings assign it their fourth-best ranks. All three
companies rate Disney, the world’s biggest entertainment
company, sixth-highest.  The district’s limited-tax general obligations rallied
after Detroit’s bankruptcy. The extra yield investors demanded
to own some bonds maturing in June 2015 a week after the filing
dropped to 0.39 percentage point, the lowest since April,
Bloomberg data show.  Disney, the 29th-biggest company by market value in the  S&P
500 stock index , recently opened the first phase of its New
Fantasyland expansion, the largest project in the history of the
Magic Kingdom Park. Last year it also opened the 2,400-room Art
of Animation resort.  ‘Huge Commitment’  “Disney has made a huge commitment on this property,” Ann
Blakeslee, Reedy Creek’s comptroller, said in a telephone
interview. “We think it’ll help the sale because it has name
recognition.”  The district 15 miles (24 kilometers) southwest of Orlando
is home to Disney’s Magic Kingdom, Epcot and Animal Kingdom
theme parks and has about $7.3 billion of taxable property,
according to state tax records.  Disney’s parks, hotels, resorts and other property make up
almost 90 percent of the tax roll. More than 60,000 people work
in Reedy Creek and 85,000 visitors sleep in Disney’s resorts
each night, district documents show.  The small number of permanent residents in Reedy Creek is
part of a governing structure that lets Disney World operate
like a local government. Only landowners, primarily Disney, are
eligible to elect the board of directors. That structure is
similar to one that drew an unfavorable ruling from the  Internal
Revenue Service  at a Florida development created by billionaire
H. Gary Morse.  Private Control  A May 30 IRS ruling found bonds issued by Village Center
Community Development District to help finance amenities at a
sprawling retirement complex weren’t tax-exempt. The IRS said
the community, called The Villages, is designed to maintain
private, not public, control of the governing board. It had
issued $426 million of debt since 1992.  While a 1968 Florida Supreme Court ruling found Reedy Creek
could issue tax-free bonds for public projects, even if Disney
was the sole beneficiary, the similarities between the Disney-dominated district and The Villages “may cause an increased
risk” of an audit, according to offering documents.  Reedy Creek’s deal may benefit from the lack of Florida
bond issues this year, said Ted Swinarski, a senior vice-president at FMSbonds Inc., a broker-dealer firm based in  Boca
Raton . Florida issuers have sold $8.4 billion of debt this year,
down from $9.4 billion over the same period in 2012, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  No Tax  Florida doesn’t have a personal income tax, meaning
residents benefit only from the federal tax-exemption on munis,
which they can get from bonds across the country. Floridians
still tend to prefer in-state issuers that they know, Swinarski
said.  Proceeds from the district’s record sale will mostly fund
improvements to Buena Vista Drive, which runs through the resort
and leads to areas including Disney’s Hollywood Studios theme
park, Downtown Disney shopping and entertainment complex and
Blizzard Beach water park.  The district also wants to construct two parking garages
near Downtown Disney. Disney announced in March plans to rebrand
the area as Disney Springs, doubling the number of shopping and
entertainment venues.  Disney Springs  is expected to be completed in 2016, Tom Staggs, chairman of Walt Disney Parks and Resorts, wrote in
March 14 post on the company’s website. He called the project
“a timeless and vibrant place that celebrates the turn-of-the
century lakeside towns that dotted the Florida landscape.”  ‘Really Well’  Reedy Creek “is Disney, and everybody knows it’s Disney,”
Swinarski said. “The credit is fine. It’ll do really well.”  Disney spokesman Bryan Malenius declined to comment.  Municipal issuers such as Dallas-Fort Worth International
Airport are set to sell $5.2 billion in long-term debt this
week, Bloomberg  data  show. California will issue about $5.5
billion in revenue-anticipation notes, or RANs, as soon as
tomorrow.  At  2.85 percent , yields on benchmark 10-year munis are
close to the lowest since July 24. The  interest rate  compares
with  2.62 percent  for similar-maturity Treasuries.  The  ratio  of the two yields, a gauge of relative value, is
about 109 percent, compared with an average of 93 percent since
2001. The greater the figure, the cheaper munis are compared
with federal securities.  Following is a pending sale:  Connecticut  plans to sell $500 million in general-obligation securities in a negotiated issue this week, according 
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The borrowing includes $235 million
in state and federal tax-exempt debt, $165 million in 
variable-rate bonds and $100 million in taxables. Orders for 
individuals began yesterday and institutional sales were set
for tomorrow. M.R. Beal & Co. and Loop  Capital Markets  are 
managing the negotiated sales. The securities are rated AA 
by Standard & Poor’s, its third-highest grade, and Aa3 by 
Moody’s Investors Service, one step lower.  Editors:  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net ;
Toluse Olorunnipa in Tallahassee, Florida at 
 tolorunnipa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  