-- CSL Annual Profit Advances 19% on U.S. Sales of Blood Infusions
-- B y   N a t a s h a   K h a n
-- 2013-08-13T23:10:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/csl-annual-profit-advances-19-on-u-s-sales-of-blood-infusions.html
CSL Ltd. (CSL) , the world’s second-biggest
maker of blood-derived therapies, reported a 19 percent jump in
annual profit, boosted by demand in the U.S. and  Europe  for
Hizentra, an infection-fighting infusion.  Net income rose to $1.22 billion, or $2.43 a share, in the
12 months ended June 30, matching the average estimate of 11
analysts. CSL had profit of $1.02 billion, or $1.97, a year
earlier. Revenue increased 6.6 percent to $5.13 billion, the
Melbourne-based company said in a statement today.  Sales of Hizentra, injected by patients under the skin at
home, jumped 27 percent, helping buffer currency fluctuations
that eroded earnings by $18 million. Paul Perreault, who
succeeded  Brian McNamee  as chief executive officer on July 1,
predicts profit will jump 10 percent in the current year, based
on constant exchange rates. Per-share earnings will increase
more after CSL repurchased A$869 million of its own stock.  “The board will consider new capital management
initiatives which may include a further on-market share buyback
program of a similar amount to the current program,” Perreault
said in the statement. “The company’s core products of
immunoglobulin and albumin have performed very well
and we have strengthened our margins through a change in sales
mix and a relentless pursuit of efficiency.”  CSL is evaluating its non-plasma businesses in a process
that could take as long as two years, Perreault said in a March
interview. It created a new unit, named bioCSL, in January to
encompass its vaccine, pharmaceutical and diagnostics units in
order to identify profitability, he said.  The company  switched  to reporting in U.S. dollars from
Australian currency earlier this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natasha Khan in  Hong Kong  at 
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  