-- CVC Capital Agrees to Buy Domestic & General From Advent
-- B y   K i e l   P o r t e r   a n d   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 2013-08-13T11:32:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/cvc-capital-agrees-to-buy-domestic-general-from-advent.html
CVC Capital Partners Ltd., one of
Europe’s largest private-equity firms, agreed to buy Domestic &
General Group Ltd., a U.K. home-appliance warranty provider,
from Advent International Corp.  Domestic & General’s management will retain a stake in the
business, London-based CVC and Boston-based Advent said in e-mailed statements today, without disclosing a purchase price.  CVC is paying 750 million pounds ($1.2 billion) for
Domestic & General, according to two people with knowledge of
the transaction, who asked not to be identified because the
information is private. Advent initially sought as much as 1
billion pounds for the Bedworth, England-based company, three
people with knowledge of the matter said last month, and was
considering paying itself a special dividend if talks with CVC
and other potential buyers collapsed.  Advent paid 524 million pounds in 2007 for 101-year-old
Domestic & General, which works with appliance makers and
sellers to provide extended warranties and is expanding outside
the U.K. Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and
amortization doubled to 83 million pounds in fiscal 2013 from 41
million pounds in fiscal 2008, and the company’s sales are 600
million pounds a year, Advent said.  “We are very pleased to be investing to acquire D&G
alongside management,” Pev Hooper and Peter Rutland, a partner
and senior managing director at CVC respectively, said in the
firm’s statement. “We look forward to working with them and
using CVC’s international resources to help take D&G to the next
stage of its development.”  Bond Financing  The buyout will be funded with 500 million pounds of high-yield bonds and 80 million pounds of loans, according to two
people with knowledge of the financing, who asked not to be
identified because it is private. The bonds will comprise 350
million pounds of senior secured notes as well as 150 million
pounds of unsecured debt, said the people.  James Olley, a London-based spokesman for CVC who works for
Brunswick Group, didn’t immediately reply to an e-mail seeking
comment on the financing.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Barclays Plc, Credit Suisse Group
AG, BNP Paribas SA, Morgan Stanley, Societe Generale SA, and UBS
AG provided fully committed debt financing, according to a CVC
 statement.   Advent was advised by Goldman Sachs, Marlborough Partners,
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer
LLP. CVC was advised by UBS, KPMG LLP, OC&C Strategy Consultants
and Clifford Chance LLP. Domestic & General’s management was
advised by Macfarlanes LLP and Jamieson Corporate Finance.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kiel Porter in London at 
 kporter17@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  