-- CVC Close to Buying Investcorp’s Skrill for $794 Million
-- B y   K i e l   P o r t e r ,   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 2013-08-13T15:49:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/cvc-close-to-buying-investcorp-s-skrill-for-794-million.html
CVC Capital Partners Ltd., one of
Europe’s largest private-equity firms, is set to buy a majority
stake in British online payment company Skrill Group Plc from
Investcorp Bank BSC, said three people familiar with the talks.  The agreement may be announced as early as this week, said
the people, who asked not to be identified because the talks are
private. London-based private-equity firm CVC may pay as much as
600 million euros ($794 million) for the company, with
Investcorp retaining a minority stake, the people said.  CVC is also in talks to buy the European business of
 Campbell Soup Co. (CPB)  and agreed to buy Domestic & General Group
Ltd., a U.K. home-appliance warranty provider, from Advent
International Corp. The firm is paying 750 million pounds ($1.2
billion) for Domestic & General, according to two people with
knowledge of the transaction, who asked not to be identified
because the information is private.  Investcorp, a Bahrain-based alternative investment firm
managing some $10.5 billion, purchased London-based Skrill for
105 million euros in 2007. The company expanded the business
with the purchase of paysafecard.com Wertkarten AG, an Austrian
provider of prepaid vouchers that enable consumers to shop
online, for about 140 million euros in 2012.  Officials at CVC and Investcorp declined to comment. A
spokesman for Skrill could not be reached for comment.  Private-equity firms typically pool money from pension
plans and endowments with a mandate to buy companies within five
to six years, then sell them and return the money and a profit
after 10 years. The firms usually charge a management fee of as
much as 2 percent and keep 20 percent of the profits from
investments.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kiel Porter in London at 
 kporter17@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  