-- De Blasio Takes Lead Among Democrats in New York Mayoral Race
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-08-13T19:23:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/de-blasio-takes-lead-among-democrats-in-new-york-mayoral-race.html
New York Public Advocate Bill de Blasio surged to the lead among seven Democrats vying for their
party’s mayoral nomination with four weeks to go in the primary
campaign, a Quinnipiac University Poll showed.  De Blasio was favored by 30 percent of likely voters,
topping City Council Speaker Christine Quinn, who received 24
percent support and has led most polls this year. Former city
Comptroller  William Thompson  was backed by 22 percent; and
former U.S. Representative Anthony Weiner got support from 10
percent, according to the survey released today.  The findings reflected strong support for de Blasio among
voters critical of the police department’s stop-and-frisk
tactics, which U.S. District Judge Shira Scheindlin yesterday
ruled had unlawfully targeted minority citizens, the university
said in a news release.  “A few weeks ago, de Blasio looked like an also-ran and
today, he’s the leader of the pack,” said  Maurice Carroll ,
director of the Hamden, Connecticut-based university’s polling
institute.  Sixty percent of likely Democratic primary voters said the
police practices were excessive, while 31 percent found them
acceptable. Among those critical of stop-and-frisk, 34 percent
backed de Blasio, 24 percent supported Thompson and 22 percent
favored Quinn, the poll reported.  Resonating Issues  “Two related issues which seem to resonate with Democratic
voters are stop-and-frisk and the creation of an inspector
general for the New York Police Department,” Carroll said in a
news release.  Likely Democratic voters support creation of an inspector
general, 66 percent to 25 percent, the poll found. The City
Council approved the measure 40 to 11 in June, and Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  vetoed it last month, returning it for a council vote
next week on whether to override Bloomberg’s action. Approval by
34 of its 51 members would enact the law.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  Of the other candidates in the race, 6 percent supported
Comptroller  John Liu , 1 percent backed former Council member Sal
Albanese and 7 percent were undecided.  Democrats outnumber Republicans in the city about 6-to-1.
If no candidate gets 40 percent in the primary, the top two
finishers in each party will compete in an Oct. 1 runoff.  De Blasio led Quinn in a possible runoff, 54 percent to 38
percent. He also led Thompson, who opposes creation of an
inspector general for the police department, 50 percent to 41
percent, according to the poll.  The telephone survey of 579 likely Democratic voters, from
Aug. 7 to 12, had a 4.1 percent-point margin of error.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in  New York  at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  