-- Death of 75-Year Monopoly Can’t Come Soon Enough: Mexico Credit
-- B y   B e n   B a i n   a n d   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2013-08-13T18:00:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/death-of-75-year-monopoly-can-t-come-soon-enough-mexico-credit.html
President Enrique Pena Nieto’s plan
to loosen  Mexico ’s 75-year-old oil monopoly is underwhelming the
bond market after he unveiled fewer incentives for private
drilling companies than his political rivals advocated.  Yields on peso-denominated debt due in 2024 rose six basis
points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 5.83 percent, after the 29-page proposal was released yesterday. Speculation that the plan,
which was delayed by a week as Pena Nieto tried to build greater
political support, would boost Mexico’s economy had reduced
yields this month by 24 basis points. That compares with an
average decline of two basis points for emerging-market bonds
through Aug. 9, according to Bank of America Corp.  Pena Nieto’s energy-reform agenda, the centerpiece of his
presidency since taking office on Dec. 1, raised expectations he
could bring together Mexico’s political parties to pass laws
that eluded his predecessors and introduce private investment to
the state oil industry. While the bond rally propelled the
peso’s world-beating advance this year, yesterday’s plan would
limit producers to profit-sharing contracts that provide less
control over the oil than the so-called concessions proposed by
the largest opposition party.  “If the goal was to really maximize production, I’m not
sure it’s the best system,” Joe Kogan, head of emerging-market
strategy at Scotiabank, said in a telephone interview from New
York. “The proposal seems a little underwhelming.”  Opposition Proposal  Yields on the benchmark bonds rose 11 basis points today to 
5.94 percent.  Exxon Mobil Corp.,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , Royal Dutch Shell Plc and
Repsol SA are among major producers that have expressed interest
in Mexican oil fields.  The opposition National Action Party last month offered an
energy proposal that includes concessions and would pave the way
for a sale of shares in the national oil company, Petroleos
Mexicanos, known as Pemex. Emilio Lozoya, the chief executive
officer of Pemex, said yesterday in an interview with Radio
Formula that a share sale isn’t being considered.  With a concession, the private company takes ownership of
its share of the oil at the wellhead. Under a profit-sharing
contract, the oil would remain the property of the state, with
the driller getting a cost reimbursement and a pre-agreed share
of the net income.  Banco Santander SA analysts David Duong and Alejandro
Rivera said in a note to clients today that Mexico’s fixed-income and foreign exchange markets “could trade under pressure
until the prospects for an agreement become more evident.”  Market Declines  The Mexican peso has fallen 0.8 percent in the past two
days to 12.7190 per U.S. dollar at 1:32 p.m. in New York. It’s
still up 1.1 percent this year, the best performance among 16
major dollar counterparts. The president’s office declined to
comment yesterday on the market’s reaction to his plan.  Finance Minister Luis Videgaray in interview with MVS Radio
rejected comments that the bill is insufficient and said that
investors are enthusiatic, according to the German news service
DPA.  Pemex, which is the third-largest crude oil exporter to the
U.S., paid about 55 percent of its $127 billion in revenue in
taxes in 2012. July oil output slid to 2.48 million barrels a
day, the lowest in almost 18 years, Pemex said this month.  Pena Nieto, the 47-year-old former governor who returned
his party to power in December, opted for risk-sharing contracts
similar to those used in Ecuador, Bolivia and  Iran , rather than
a concession model, Energy Minister Pedro Joaquin Coldwell said.
The state would retain ownership of oil reserves.  ‘Pemex’s Inefficiencies’  “The private partner could be held back somewhat by having
to make up for Pemex’s inefficiencies,” Rafael Elias, Latin
America fixed-income strategist at Credit Agricole SA in New
York, said in an e-mailed statement.  Duncan Wood, director of the Mexico Institute at the
Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars in  Washington ,
says the president’s plan “may disappoint some people” who
think that concessions give more incentives for private
companies.  Oil at all stages of production, refining and distribution
has been the legal property of the Mexican people since 1938,
when then-President Lazaro Cardenas seized fields from U.S. and
British companies and changed the nation’s charter. The
expropriation is celebrated every March 18 and trumpeted as a
point of pride in schoolchildren’s textbooks.  Growth Potential  Even without concessions, Pena Nieto’s plan represents “a
historic moment,” Alejandro Urbina, a money manager at Chicago-based Silva Capital Management LLC, which oversees $800 million
in emerging-market assets, said in a telephone interview.  Because the plan was “pre-negotiated” with the
opposition, “it’s something that’s going to get done,” Urbina
said.  The energy plan may add 1.5 percentage points to the
nation’s potential economic growth, Barclays Plc said yesterday
in a note. When combined with the boost from labor and
telecommunications reforms, growth may reach 5.8 percent in the
“medium term,” the bank said. The Mexican central bank
projected last week that Latin America’s second-biggest economy
will expand by 2 percent to 3 percent this year.  Falling Short  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of Treasuries fell five basis points to 197
basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global
Diversified index.  Mexico’s five-year credit default swaps, contracts that
protect holders of the nation’s debt from non-payment, fell
three basis points to 115 basis points, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  While Pena Nieto’s proposal amounted to a “realistic
reform,” it fell short of expectations that the government
would allow an even wider opening to private-sector investment
in energy, Carlos Hermosillo, an equity analyst at Grupo
Financiero Banorte SAB, said in a telephone interview from
Mexico City. “The market was expecting a rather more aggressive
reform than what we got.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net ;
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tsang at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  