-- Depression Classic Brought Poverty Into the Light
-- B y   A d a m   K i r s c h
-- 2013-08-13T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/depression-classic-brought-poverty-into-the-light.html
In 2013, poverty isn’t hard to find
in America -- from  decayed inner cities  to the camps of
agricultural  migrant workers . But unless you seek it out, it’s
very easy to forget. We always prefer stories of great success -
-  Steve Jobs  or  Warren Buffett  -- to the much more numerous, if
less inspiring or reassuring, stories of failure.  The first task of a writer aiming to bring poverty out of
the shadows, then, is simply to remind prosperous Americans that
the poor exist -- not in the abstract, as statistics, but in all
their humanity. No writer has ever committed himself more fully
to this task than  James Agee , in “ Let Us Now Praise Famous
Men .”  In 1936, as the Depression stretched on and on, Fortune
magazine decided to commission an article about the plight of
sharecroppers in the South. Fortune, a sister magazine to Time,
was part of the Henry Luce empire, and Luce was known for hiring
serious and respected writers (though they often bitterly
complained that he did not allow them to do their best work).  For the sharecropping assignment, the magazine chose Agee,
a 27-year-old poet, to write the words and  Walker Evans  to take
the pictures. The two men spent about a month in Alabama,
getting to know three tenant families, sharing their homes and
learning about their way of life. When they returned to  New York 
and Agee filed his article, it was instantly rejected.  This turned out to be a blessing in disguise. Freed from
the obligation to Luce, Agee turned his experience in the South
into a 500-page book, accompanied by Evans’s photographs, which
would become one of the classics of Depression literature.  Romanticizing Poverty  The pictures are classics of documentary photography. Evans
captured both the deprivation and the resilience of these poor
white farmers. Here are pine shacks, their boards weathered and
askew; children wearing filthy smocks and overalls, crouched in
the dirt; prematurely aged women, toothless in their late 20s.
The photos read like an indictment: All of this is taking place
in America in the 20th century, they say.  Reading the book today, however, in the aftermath of our
Great Recession, those photos carry less of an immediate charge.
In their black-and-white precision, they seem to speak of a
long-past era, and so become almost quaint. Looking at them, we
may even feel some nostalgia for the way of life they record,
which has almost disappeared from America.  Agee himself wasn’t immune to this kind of romanticizing of
poverty. Describing the shack in which the Gudger family lived -
- Agee used pseudonyms to guard the privacy of the people he met
-- he makes clear that it was a wretched place. A single layer
of pine board, carelessly hammered together, was all that
protected the inhabitants from the weather outside. Of the four
rooms, one was uninhabitable due to smoke, and all were infested
with lice. Yet Agee can admire the house’s simplicity: “A look
of being most earnestly hand-made, as a child’s drawing, a thing
created out of need, love, patience, and strained skill in the
innocence of a race.”  The key to the strangeness of “Let Us Now Praise Famous
Men” is that Agee was, in fact, love-struck by the people and
even the things he discovered in  Alabama . He was raised in a
pious Christian home, and his adult life was haunted by his
struggles with religious belief. But with his hosts in Alabama -
- the Gudgers, the Woodses and the Rickettses -- he clearly
underwent a kind of religious experience. He was powerfully
struck by the luminous reality of these lives, apparently so
much worse than his own but nonetheless sacred and unique: “In
a novel, a house or person has his meaning, his existence,
entirely through the writer. Here, a house or person has only
the most limited of his meaning through me: his true meaning is
much huger. It is that he exists, in actual being, as you do and
as I do.”  Shared Experience  Agee didn’t set himself the goal of reporting on economic
conditions, much less to suggest economic solutions. Although he
opens with an epigraph from “ The Communist Manifesto ” --
“Workers of the world, unite and fight. You have nothing to
lose but your chains, and a world to win” -- he quickly
insists, perhaps disingenuously, that he doesn’t mean these
words as a partisan slogan. Rather, he wanted to force the
reader to share his up-close experience of impoverished lives:  “If I could do it, I’d do no writing at all here. It would
be photographs; the rest would be fragments of cloth, bits of
cotton, lumps of earth, records of speech, pieces of wood and
iron, phials of odors, plates of food and of excrement. ... A
piece of the body torn out by the roots might be more to the
point.”  It is the gap between what words can do and the sensory
experience Agee wants to provide that makes the book so strange.
One might expect that a book about the plight of cotton
sharecroppers would contain, say, an analysis of the economics
of the cotton industry, or a description of cotton harvesting.
“Let Us Now Praise Famous Men” does touch on these subjects,
but as briefly as possible. We see how every member of a
sharecropping family, even a young child, has to help get the
crop in, which means dragging 100-pound sacks of cotton in the
summer heat. We see how the sharecropping system leaves the
farmer permanently in debt to his landlord, making it impossible
for him ever to make a profit.  Yet Agee almost prides himself on his lack of interest in
the details of these subjects: “Of cotton farming I know almost
nothing with my own eyes,” he wrote cavalierly. “I must warn
you that the result is sure to be somewhat inaccurate; but it is
accurate anyhow to my ignorance, which I would not wish to
disguise.”  On the other hand, he is willing to spend dozens of pages
describing surfaces, textures, tastes and smells. A long chapter
is devoted to an item-by-item inventory of every object in the
Gudgers’s house. This isn’t just journalism, but a kind of
spiritual exercise, a litany -- as though listing the evidence
of this family’s poverty would allow the reader to understand
its inner meaning, its essence.  Living Book  And it is that spiritual effort that makes “Let Us Now
Praise Famous Men” a living book so many years after it was
written. The poverty of our age no longer looks the way it did
in Alabama in 1936: It is no longer rural, stark and primeval,
but urban and shabby. It is the difference between the near-starvation Agee witnessed and the epidemic of obesity and
diabetes that plagues the poor today -- diseases of cheap
abundance.  But the struggle Agee records is still with us. This is the
struggle, not so much political as moral and spiritual: to
believe in the value of all human lives -- to accept that all
men are brothers. For once that principle is accepted -- not
just formally but in our hearts, as Agee wants us to accept it -
- then it becomes impossible to close our eyes to suffering and
deprivation. To break down our resistance to that idea, Agee
produced a book that is ungainly, sentimental, verbose,
desperately sincere and unforgettable.  (Adam Kirsch is a senior editor at the New Republic and a
columnist for Tablet magazine. He is the author of “Why
Trilling Matters.” This is the third in a four-part series.
Read  Part 1  and  Part 2 .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Adam Kirsch at  adam.kirsch@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 