-- Diageo to Qatar Pouncing on India as Debt Woes Weigh on Sellers
-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 2013-08-13T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/diageo-to-qatar-pouncing-on-india-as-debt-woes-weigh-on-sellers.html
India’s economy  is growing at the
slowest pace in a decade, companies are burdened by record debt
and governance is so bad that even local cement billionaire
Kumar Mangalam Birla is reluctant to invest in the country.  Yet some foreign entities, from  Diageo Plc (DGE)  to Qatar’s
government, are undaunted, finding buying opportunities as
Indian firms look to shed assets to free up cash.  Inbound acquisitions of Indian assets reached $9.9 billion
in the first half, the most for a six-month period in two years,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. A tumbling Indian currency and
falling valuations have made deals cheaper for overseas
companies, who are drawn by the long-term promise of rising
consumption by a swelling middle class. More transactions may
come as Indian companies from Reliance Communications Ltd. to
 DLF Ltd. (DLFU)  prepare to sell assets.  “This is a good time for international companies to look
at India,” said Ajay Saraf, head of  investment banking  at ICICI
Securities Ltd. in Mumbai. “Indian corporate owners are more
open to dialogue than before.”  That was the case with liquor baron Vijay Mallya, who sold
a stake in  United Spirits Ltd. (UNSP) , the maker of Bagpiper whiskey,
to London-based Diageo. Mallya had been under financial pressure
after his  Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR)  had racked up more debt than
it could repay. The transaction gave Diageo, the world’s biggest
distiller, effective control of United Spirits.  Bharti Sale  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) , India’s largest mobile-phone operator,
in May agreed to sell a 5 percent stake for $1.26 billion to the
 Qatar Foundation  Endowment, the investment arm of the state-controlled Qatar Foundation. Billionaire Chairman  Sunil Mittal 
has seen Bharti’s debt climb almost sevenfold since 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Mallya and Bharti aren’t alone in gorging on loans. Net
debt at Indian companies, excluding banks and financial firms,
on the S&P BSE200 index more than doubled to $196 billion as of
Dec. 31 from the end of 2008, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “A slowing economy forces many Indian companies to
concentrate on the core businesses and to take steps to pare
down debt,” said A Krishna Kumar, head of domestic banking at
 State Bank  of India, the nation’s largest lender, in an
interview.  Cheaper Valuations  The falling currency has played into the hands of foreign
buyers. The  Indian rupee  has slumped 26 percent in the past two
years, hitting a record low against the dollar on Aug. 6.  “Deals that two to three years ago sounded a bit pricey
are now a lot more accessible with the help of the currency,”
said David Gaud, senior portfolio manager at the asset
management unit of Edmond de Rothschild Group, which oversees
more than $157 billion.  At the same time, valuations have dropped. Companies on
India’s benchmark Sensex Index trade at an average 13.3 times
projected full-year earnings, down 26 percent from a 2009 peak,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. That remains higher than
valuations of companies in other  emerging markets , such as
China.  This year’s biggest inbound deal was Unilever Plc’s 2.45
billion-euro ($3.3 billion) agreement to raise its majority
holding in  Hindustan Unilever Ltd. (HUVR)  to about two-thirds, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The asset sales come amid the most challenging financial
conditions for Indian companies in more than a decade, according
to a  July 17 report  by India Ratings & Research, the local unit
of  Fitch Ratings . Cash flows haven’t kept pace with the increase
in corporate debt, making it harder for companies to service
loans, India Ratings said.  Birla Cautious  The financial gloom has hurt outbound deals, with Indian
companies announcing $4.4 billion of acquisitions abroad in the
first half, down from $9.1 billion in the previous six months,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  India’s economic expansion has held below 5 percent for two
straight quarters, trailing growth in China by about 3
percentage points, as Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  struggles to
revive investment. At the same time, Singh’s administration has
been paralyzed by a series of corruption allegations.  Kumar Birla, who runs companies including the world’s
largest rolled aluminum maker and India’s biggest cement
manufacturer, said in March that lack of transparency in
government policy made him prefer to invest in other emerging
markets like Brazil. Birla has a net worth of $8.2 billion,
according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index .  Middle Class  While domestic companies remain pressured, foreign chief
executive officers including Nissan Motor Co.’s  Carlos Ghosn 
cite the vast potential of a middle class that is expected to
stoke demand for everything from cars to beer.  PricewaterhouseCoopers  estimates  India will have 600
million middle-class consumers by 2021, more than the combined
population of the U.S. and Indonesia. Growth in  consumer
spending  will average 8.9 percent in the next five years,
compared with 4.6 percent in the U.S. and 3.9 percent in the
U.K., according to market researcher Euromonitor.  Ghosn says there are 15 cars per 1,000 people in India,
compared with 200 in Brazil, 500 in Europe and 800 in the U.S.  “There is no way that the car industry will regress in a
country like India,” Ghosn said in a July 16 interview with
Bloomberg TV India.  Circling Reliance  Meanwhile, the pace of inbound deals is set to continue
this year and next, according to Edmond de Rothschild’s Gaud.  Foreign companies are circling  Reliance Communications
Ltd. (RCOM) , the phone company controlled by billionaire  Anil Ambani .
Reliance is under pressure to reduce debt that jumped to 415
billion rupees ($6.8 billion) on March 31 from 119 billion
rupees in June 2006.  The company is in talks to sell a stake in telecom services
unit Reliance Globalcom to Dubai-based Samena Capital, according
to a statement in April. It also held talks this year to sell a
stake to South Africa’s MTN Group Ltd., though those discussions
have stalled, according to people with knowledge of the matter.  Rajeev Narayan, a spokesman for Reliance Communications,
didn’t respond to an e-mail and a call seeking comment. An e-mail to MTN’s press office went unanswered.  DLF, India’s largest developer, said July 25 that it’s
selling “non-core” assets after  debt almost doubled  in the
past five years. The company has been trying to divest luxury-hotel chain Amanresorts International Pte since at least 2010.  “Overseas corporates will benefit from a weaker currency
and also stand a good chance to get assets which are relatively
well-managed, not very expensive, and get superior returns from
what you find in the region,” Gaud said. “India is a place
where companies are happy to currently make acquisitions.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net ;
Anto Antony in Mumbai at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  