-- Dozens Die in North Asia Heat Wave as Power Supply Strained
-- B y   S u n g w o o   P a r k   a n d   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e
-- 2013-08-13T06:46:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/dozens-die-in-asia-heat-wave-as-power-supply-strained-to-limits.html
Record temperatures across North
Asia have killed dozens and pushed electricity grids to near
breaking point, forcing governments to introduce emergency
measures as more of the same heat is forecast.  Air-conditioning in  South Korea ’s public buildings has been
shut off as the government yesterday warned of power shortages.
China has opened air-raid shelters as makeshift cooling stations,
while thousands in  Japan  have been hospitalized for heatstroke.  “We are in a critical situation where, if any single power
generator goes wrong, we will have to resort to rolling
blackouts just like we did in 2011,” Yoon Sang Jick, South
Korea’s minister of trade, industry and energy, said in a speech
on Aug. 11.  Shanghai hit a record 40.8 degrees Celsius (105 degrees
Fahrenheit) on Aug. 7, according to the meteorological bureau,
as the city endured its hottest summer in 140 years. In southern
Japan, temperatures in Shimanto city peaked at 41 degrees
Celsius yesterday, the highest ever recorded in the country,
according to the meteorological agency.  Eight people have died of heatstroke across South  Korea  as
of Aug. 11, while 867 people have been hospitalized, according
to the Central Disaster and Safety Countermeasures Headquarters.
Seventeen people in Japan were killed by heatstroke between Aug.
7 and Aug. 11, according to the Fire and Disaster Management
Agency, with more than 9,800 in the hospital for treatment.  Critical Period  In China, at least 11 people have died from heatstroke
since July, the Shanghai Daily reported Aug. 1, citing local
authorities.  “The hot summer this year is not a result of human
activities, but it is true we have increasingly hotter summers
and global warming is in the background,” said Takehiko Mikami,
a climatology professor at Teikyo University in  Tokyo .  The record temperatures are a result of multilayered high
pressure systems extending over much of the region, including
Japan, South Korea and China, Kenji Okada, a forecaster at the
 Japan Meteorological Agency , said today.  “Descending air currents get heated when compressed by
many layers of high pressure,” Okada said by phone from Tokyo.
“A lack of low pressure between the layers makes it difficult
to create clouds, preventing temperatures from falling even at
night. Normally, temperatures are reset by the next morning, but
that isn’t happening now.” The pattern will remain for some
time, Okada said.  Pressure on Utilities  In South Korea’s case, the three days through Aug. 14 are
considered to be the most critical. Demand may peak at 80,500
megawatts on Aug. 13, while supply is forecast at 77,130
megawatts, leaving the country 3,370 megawatts short, the energy
ministry said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  South Korea’s Yoon on Sunday urged public institutions,
companies and households to cut power usage as much as possible
from 10 a.m. through 6 p.m. during those three days.  The heat wave heightens pressure on utilities, particularly
in Japan and Korea where safety concerns have prompted the
shuttering of nuclear power stations.  Two of South Korea’s 23 reactors were halted earlier this
year and the restart of another was delayed when safety
certificates for components used at the facilities were found to
be faked. In Japan, all but two of the nation’s reactors are
shut following the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami.  Electricity Demand Rises  In Japan, the absence of nuclear power has forced utilities
to turn to conventional fossil fuels.  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) ,
the operator of the wrecked Fukushima Dai-Ichi atomic plant,
almost doubled coal consumption in July after turning to coal-fired plants to meet customer needs.  Demand for electricity in Tokyo Electric’s service areas
reached 50,930 megawatts on Aug. 9, the highest this fiscal year,
according to data on the utility’s website. Tepco, as the
utility is known, estimates power demand may reach 90 percent of
capacity in the two weeks through Aug. 23, it said Aug. 9 on its
website.  Tepco, which has about 29 million customers in Metropolitan
Tokyo, will seek electricity supplies from other companies and
postpone maintenance at thermal and hydro power plants should
demand spike, spokeswoman Kaoru Suzuki said by phone today.  Reserve Margins  Japan’s utilities have so far been able to keep their
reserve margins -- generating capacity not used to satisfy
demand -- at higher than 3 percent, which is considered the
lower limit for a stable electricity supply, said Takehiro Kawahara, an analyst with Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  “If the heat wave continues and the reserve margin becomes
less than 3 percent, the national government and utilities will
probably need to commit to more energy-saving efforts, asking
businesses and consumers to save electricity,” Kawahara said.  The heat wave hit in force as millions of Tokyo residents
left the city for home towns and villages for the o-bon summer
holidays, when many companies and businesses shut for the week.  In  Onjuku , a town on the east coast of Chiba prefecture
about 100 kilometers (62 miles) from Tokyo, thousands of
visitors have packed the town’s beaches to cool off.  In Tokyo’s Otematchi financial district, the mercury
reached 38.3 degrees Celsius on Aug. 11, the fourth-highest on
record for the area, according to agency data.  Power Production  An increase in  Shanghai ’s residential water tariffs has
been postponed by a month to Sept. 1 as high temperatures are
expected to continue, the government said in a statement on its
website. Some residents of the city have turned to social media
to call for the government to lower electricity prices.  Elsewhere in China, Hefei, Hangzhou, Xi’an and Chongqing
cities have opened local air-raid shelters for citizens to keep
cool, the Xinhua News Agency reported July 2, citing people it
didn’t identify.  Seven provinces in China had record-high power production
in July due to heat waves in east and southwest China, according
to a July 29 statement on the website of State Grid Corp. of
 China , the nation’s dominant power distributor.  China’s power production increased to an all-time high in
July. Electricity generation climbed 8.1 percent to 479.5
billion kilowatt-hours last month, data from the National Bureau
of Statistics in Beijing showed Aug. 9, the highest monthly
figure on record.  Temperatures are expected to rise to 35 degrees Celsius or
higher again today in much of Japan including the Kyushu and
Shikoku islands, according to Japan’s meteorological agency.  “We expect both maximum and minimum temperature will be
higher than average or much higher in some locations,” the
agency said today in its weekly forecast.  The agency began issuing heat advisories two years ago to
warn of heatstroke amid a push across Japan to save energy
following the Fukushima nuclear accident.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sungwoo Park in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net ;
Chisaki Watanabe in Tokyo at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  