-- DuPont Alters Bylaws as Activist Expected to Reveal Stake
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y   a n d   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2013-08-13T20:25:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/dupont-changes-bylaws-as-activist-peltz-said-to-buy-stake.html
DuPont Co. (DD)  changed its bylaws to
provide payouts to executives fired in a takeover and to alter
how special meetings are run, days before an activist investor
is expected to reveal a large stake in the chemical maker.  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Ellen Kullman  would
receive three times her annual salary and bonus and other
executives would get twice their compensation if fired after a
company takeover, Wilmington, Delaware-based DuPont said today
in a regulatory filing. Another bylaw change approved by the
board yesterday sets  Delaware  as the jurisdiction for resolving
fiduciary duty and shareholder rights disputes.  The changes follow a July 17 CNBC report that Trian Fund
Management LP, co-founded by activist investor  Nelson Peltz , has
acquired “a very big” stake in DuPont, the biggest U.S.
chemical maker by market value. The deadline for institutional
investors to report second-quarter holdings is Aug. 14.  Anne
Tarbell , a managing director for Trian, didn’t immediately
respond to a phone call seeking comment.  The change-in-control provisions are similar to ones in
place for DuPont’s peers and other large companies,  Michael Hanretta , a company spokesman, said by phone today. Payment to
an executive terminated in a takeover is commonly known as a
golden parachute.  “The purpose of these plans is to reduce uncertainty and
distraction for key employees in the event of a change in
control, and to retain key employees,” Hanretta said.  Governance Review  DuPont also altered bylaws on how special meetings of
stockholders are called and conducted, including a requirement
to provide advance notice for anyone nominating directors or
proposing other changes.  All of the changes are part of DuPont’s regular review of
governance, including bringing bylaws in line with best
practices and peers, Hanretta said.  DuPont rose 0.5 percent to $59.71 in  New York . The shares
have gained 33 percent this year.  DuPont last month announced it’s exploring options for its
performance-chemicals unit, which makes white pigment, Teflon
coatings and Freon refrigerants.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net ;
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  