-- Health Law Success Hinges on Combating ‘Misinformation’
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-08-13T18:14:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/health-law-success-hinges-on-combating-misinformation.html
The U.S. government needs to offset
“misinformation” about the health-care law being circulated in
states led by Republican governors, according to the Obama
administration official responsible for implementation.  Kathleen Sebelius , the secretary of Health & Human Services,
said the Affordable Care Act will succeed in states run by
Democrats who have embraced the law. In states such as Georgia
where the governor and legislature are in Republican hands, “the
job is made doubly difficult,” Sebelius said in an interview
today during a visit to Atlanta to meet with supporters of the law.  The comment further drives a wedge between the Obama
administration and Republicans who have opposed the 2010 health-care system overhaul and continue to undermine next year’s core
implementation. Republicans in  Indiana ,  Ohio , Georgia and
 Florida  have said people who buy insurance for themselves face
huge premium increases -- as much as triple in  Georgia , the
state’s insurance commissioner, Ralph Hudgens,  said  on July 30.  “We know that there will be states where things will go
very well because the states are all in,” Sebelius said. For
residents in other states, “getting correct facts to them,
drilling down through the misinformation, is going to be more
complicated. That’s where a lot of my time and effort is going
to be spent, on the markets that are really federal markets.”  Sebelius’s trip to Georgia is one of a series she’s making
through the end of the year to encourage uninsured Americans to
sign up for the Affordable Care Act’s new coverage options.  Signing Up  The government has said it wants at least 7 million
Americans who don’t get health coverage at their jobs to sign up
for plans by early next year in new insurance marketplaces set
to open in every state on Oct. 1, 2013. In Georgia and 26 other
states, the exchange will be run by the federal government with
little or no involvement by state officials.  Later this week, Sebelius travels to Florida, where the
state government also has opposed the health law.  In Congress, Republicans led by Senators  Mike Lee  of  Utah 
and  Ted Cruz  of Texas have threatened to force a federal
government shutdown unless Obama agrees to a fiscal 2014
spending plan that provides no money for the health law.  Sebelius said that campaign is folly.  Moving Forward  “There still is a dialogue being perpetuated by some
opponents that this is gonna go away, and that this is not the
law,” she said. “The Affordable Care Act was signed in March
of 2010, it was upheld by the  Supreme Court  a year ago, the
president was re-elected and we will implement the law. This is
the law; it’s not a debate any longer, it’s not a discussion.”  “We’re going to move forward,” she said.  In Atlanta, Sebelius met with the chairman of the Fulton
County Commissioners, John Eaves, and a group that included
local hospital executives and advocates for the health law. The
county spends $50 million to $100 million a year on care for the
uninsured, Eaves said, a burden that will be partially lifted by
the health-care law.  He plans to lobby Governor Nathan Deal, a Republican, to
agree to a Medicaid expansion that would cover adults under the
poverty level, who won’t be eligible for subsidies to buy
insurance in the exchanges, Eaves said in a news conference
after the meeting.  Georgia can’t afford its share of the Medicaid expansion,
which would amount to 10 percent of the cost by 2020, a
spokesman for Deal,  Brian Robinson , said in an e-mail. The
federal government picks up the entire cost of the expansion
until 2017.  The Obama administration should instead agree to convert
Georgia’s Medicaid payments to a “block grant,” he said.  “We could go a long way toward achieving the goals the
secretary espouses without crippling the state’s budget,” he
said.  25 Million  About 25 million people are expected to gain coverage from
the Affordable Care Act by 2016, which includes the state
exchanges and an expansion of Medicaid programs for the poor,
according to estimates from the  Congressional Budget Office .
Sebelius said states like Georgia that have refused to expand
Medicaid present “a big challenge” for enrollment efforts.  “Reaching consumers who may be desperate for health
security, for health insurance, only to say to them if they’re
below 100 percent of poverty, ‘you really don’t qualify for any
financial help until the Medicaid expansion is adopted,’ is a
very difficult message and I think will be hugely disappointing
to a lot of people,” Sebelius said in the interview.  Georgia stands to miss out on about $40 billion in Medicaid
funding over the next decade if it doesn’t expand, she said.
That will be “frankly, very economically damaging on an ongoing
basis to that state, where resources will continue to be poured
into uncompensated care, hospitals will continue to look at a
situation where they’re on the verge -- which a lot of community
hospitals are right now -- of very difficult financial times,”
Sebelius said.  Robinson said that “the problems the secretary cites are
problems created by the Obama administration. Only it can fix
them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  