-- Telekom Austria, KPN Agree on Joint Business-Service Work
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   W e b e r
-- 2013-08-13T13:52:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/telekom-austria-kpn-agree-on-joint-business-service-work.html
Telekom Austria  AG and  Royal KPN NV (KPN) ,
the two European phone companies part-owned by  Carlos Slim ’s 
 America Movil SAB (AMXL) , said they’re combining corporate-services 
networks in a bid to improve services for large customers.  The operators’ networks carrying data for businesses are
geographically complementary, Vienna-based Telekom Austria said
in a statement today. The deal also encompasses common marketing
and sales activities, it said.  “Because of our common shareholder, this cooperation was
obvious,” Alexander Kleedorfer, a spokesman for Telekom
Austria, said by telephone. In an industry with declining
margins, “you naturally look at what’s possible and what makes
sense,” he said. “This was the first concrete step.”  America Movil said on Aug. 9 that it plans to buy the 70
percent of the Hague-based KPN that it doesn’t yet own for 7.2
billion euros ($9.5 billion), stirring speculation on a possible
bid for Telekom Austria. A second deal is unlikely in the near
term because of Mexico City-based  America Movil ’s high debt
level, analysts at Berenberg Bank and Societe Generale SA have
said.  “Being in an alliance is important,” Hannes Ametsreiter,
Telekom Austria’s chief executive officer, said in a Bloomberg
Television interview. While intense competition and regulation
are weighing on earnings, companies need scale to invest in
infrastructure, he said.  Telekom Austria reported second-quarter profit yesterday
that missed analysts’ estimates because of sluggish economic
growth in eastern Europe and widening competition in its home
market. The company predicts sales will fall 5 percent in 2013.  KPN rose 0.2 percent to 2.33 euros at 3:48 p.m. in
Amsterdam. The stock has gained 3.6 percent this year. Telekom
Austria was trading down 0.1 percent at 5.63 euros. The company
is 23.7 percent- owned  by America Movil, and Slim holds an
additional 3.14 percent through his Inmobiliaria Carso SA
holding company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Weber in Vienna at 
 aweber45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mariajose Vera at 
 mvera1@bloomberg.net  