-- Lilly Lung Cancer Treatment Increases Survival in Study
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-08-14T18:15:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/eli-lilly-lung-cancer-drug-improves-patient-survival-in-trial.html
(Corrects spelling of name in eighth paragraph of story
published Aug. 13.)  An experimental  lung cancer  drug
from  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  increased survival among patients with
advanced disease compared with those on chemotherapy alone, a
study showed. The shares gained 2.6 percent.  The drug, called necitumumab, met the primary endpoint of
increasing survival in a trial involving 1,093 patients with
non-small cell lung cancer whose disease had spread, the
Indianapolis-based drugmaker said today in a statement.
Necitumumab was tested in patients with a type of tumor known as
squamous cell carcinoma.  If cleared for sale, the drug would be a potent boost to
Lilly’s product portfolio. It would also mean a critical new
therapy for a cancer that’s proven difficult to treat with drugs
such as Avastin that directly target tumors, as opposed to more
broadly active chemotherapy drugs.  “Squamous cell is an unmet medical need and there haven’t
been many new therapies in quite some time,” Roy Herbst, the
chief of medical oncology at the Yale Cancer Center in  New
Haven ,  Connecticut , said in a telephone interview. “The fact
that this is a positive trial can only be a good thing. What we
don’t know is how positive it is, and what the toxicity profile
is.”  It’s also good news for Lilly, as investors weren’t
anticipating a positive result. “This is a clear upside
surprise,”  Mark Schoenebaum , an analyst with ISI Group LLC,
said today in a note to clients.  Shares Rise  Lilly rose $1.40 to $54.96 at 4 p.m. New York time. The
shares have  gained 28 percent  in the past 12 months.  Next year, Lilly plans to release full results from the
study at a scientific meeting and anticipates submitting the
drug to regulatory authorities. Non-small cell lung cancer
accounts for about 85 percent of lung cancer and patients with
squamous cell carcinoma make up about 30 percent of those
patients. Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer death in
the U.S.  “Up until a couple years ago, we had no sense that
squamous cell lung cancer had anything targetable,” Paul Paik,
a doctor at  Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center  in New York,
said in a telephone interview. “This trial is timely, in terms
of figuring out if there’s anything else we can add to
chemotherapy to make it better.” Paik was an investigator on
the trial for Lilly.  If approved, the drug would be the first biologic therapy
to treat patients with squamous lung cancer, Richard Gaynor,
vice president, product development and medical affairs for
Lilly Oncology, said in the statement.  Next Stage  Yale’s Herbst compared the drug with Erbitux, which is made
by Lilly and sold by Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. in the U.S.
Erbitux was derived partly from mouse antibodies, and could
occasionally produce allergic reactions. Lilly’s new drug is
fully human, he said, meaning the potential for side-effects
could be lower.  Analysts had “basically zero” expectations for
necitumumab, Schoenebaum said today in his note. The drug failed
in a prior non-squamous lung cancer trial, he said.  “We really need to see the full data to understand
risk/benefit,” Schoenebaum said in this note.  The most common adverse events seen in the study included
rash. Less frequent, yet serious, side effects included blood
clotting, Lilly said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  