-- Embraer Woos Wealthy for Jets as Batista Sells His Plane
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2013-08-13T14:23:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/embraer-woos-wealthy-for-jets-as-batista-sells-plane.html
Embraer SA (EMBR3)  is betting on a rising
U.S. economy to draw wealthy buyers to its latest business jets
even as cost-conscious companies cut private air travel and some
owners including former billionaire  Eike Batista  are forced to
unload their planes.  The first of the jets, the mid-size Legacy 500 seating as
many as 12 people, is due to enter service in 2014’s first half
and will be the first Embraer model built for that market niche.
The Legacy 450, a so-called mid-light model, is to follow a year
later, Sao Jose dos Campos, Brazil-based Embraer said.  Embraer’s challenge: Even as Brazil’s biggest planemaker
bets on the new corporate aircraft to reduce reliance on
 commercial planes , demand worldwide is running at barely half of
2008’s pace. Chief Executive Officer Frederico Curado said in a
July 26 conference call that the market is “softening,” though
he still expects the company to reach sales targets.  “Embraer is making a call on its expectation that United
States economic growth will see a rebound up the chain for
people that want to buy” mid-size jets again, said Stephen Trent, a Citigroup Inc. analyst in New York. He said the Legacy
planes face a “tight” fit in a crowded market.  Until rolling out the Legacy 450 and 500, Embraer drew its
mid-sized offerings from its signature regional-jet families,
reconfiguring them into luxury aircraft. Now, it’s pushing the
new jets in a market crowded by planes from  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  and
 General Dynamics Corp. (GD) ’s Gulfstream, as well as used planes such
as the mid-size Legacy 600 recently sold by Batista, 56.  Shrinking Assets  Batista, once the country’s richest man, has seen his worth
shrink to $300 million as of yesterday from $34.5 billion last
year, according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index . Veja
magazine reported last month that he sold his jet to Bank of
America Corp., which then leased it.  Batista’s holding company, EBX Group Co., declined to
comment yesterday when asked about the jet, and Bank of America
didn’t respond to telephone calls and e-mails.  Commercial regional-jet orders, not business aircraft, have
buoyed Embraer in 2013, sending the stock up  33 percent  through
yesterday as  Brazil ’s benchmark Ibovespa index fell 17 percent.
Bombardier rose 30 percent. Orders from U.S. airlines helped
push Embraer’s firm order backlog to 366 regional jets, topping
the 279 for Montreal-based Bombardier’s competing models.
Embraer fell 0.8 percent to 19.05 reais at 11:20 a.m. in Sao
Paulo.  Global business-jet deliveries slid to 672 in 2012 from
2008’s 1,315, the General Aviation Manufacturers Association
said. This year’s total will be 649, according to Newtown,
Connecticut-based researcher Forecast International.  Order Drought  Within that shrunken market, planes the size of the Legacy
family face a “drought” of orders, said Brian Foley, a former
marketing director at Dassault SA’s Falcon business-jet unit who
is now an aviation consultant based in  Sparta , New Jersey.  The Legacy 450 has a range of 2,300 nautical miles (4,260
kilometers) and can carry as many as 10 passengers, while the
Legacy 500 boasts a 3,000 nautical-mile range. They list for $16
million and $20 million, respectively.  That puts them out of reach for wealthy individuals who
might opt for the smallest Embraer model, the Phenom, which can
sell for as little as $2.98 million, according to industry
website AircraftCompare.com. The planes also lack the range for
corporate buyers seeking big business jets such as Bombardier’s
Global 8000, which can fly 7,900 nautical miles. Embraer doesn’t
have a jet in the large-aircraft, long-range segment.  Delivery Outlook  While Embraer doesn’t disclose its order book, its forecast
for deliveries of 25 to 30 planes from the Legacy family and the
bigger Lineage 1000 this year would show only a slight gain from
last year’s 22. The company predicts it will deliver 80 to 90
Phenom light jets, compared with 77 in 2012.  “We see some softening on the upper range on the Legacy
650 market and this higher-end business jet market,” CEO Curado
said on the July 26 call. “I would say that we’re probably
going more towards the lower end of our guidance than the higher
end, but still confident that we can meet our numbers.”  Good news on Phenom sales “doesn’t really matter in terms
of sales and dollars,” said  Nick Heymann , a William Blair & Co.
analyst in New York, in a telephone interview. “You have to
sell a zillion of them to get anywhere.”  Heymann rates Embraer’s U.S. depositary receipts as market
perform, while Citigroup’s Trent has a sell rating on the ADRs,
citing global valuations. Embraer trades at 15 times estimated
2013 earnings, compared with a ratio of 12 for Bombardier and
Falls Church, Virginia-based General Dynamics.  Embraer, Bombardier  Curado is forecasting sales this year of as much as $6.4
billion, while the total for Bombardier, a maker of commuter
trains as well as aircraft, may be  $18.4 billion , based on
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Embraer’s 2012
operating margin was 10 percent, compared with 4.7 percent for
Bombardier, based on data compiled by Bloomberg.  Embraer’s effort to use business aircraft to wean itself
from dependence on signature regional jets echoes a push with
the defense and security division. Executive aviation should
produce 25 percent of revenue this year, compared with 21
percent for defense and 52 percent for commercial planes,
according to a regulatory filing.  At 3.1 percent, the executive-jet business still trailed
Embraer’s others in operating  profit margin , with 11.7 percent
for commercial aviation and 10.9 percent for defense and
security, according to a regulatory filing.  Foley, the consultant, expects that Embraer’s investment in
new business jets should pay off.  “Once the small and mid-sized markets perk up a little bit
Embraer will benefit,” Foley said. “As the worldwide economies
are starting to get a little more stable, Embraer has a business
jet family that’s brand new that’s available now. Other
manufacturers took a two-year hiatus from development.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in Sao Paulo at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  