-- Emerging Stocks Rally on Economic Data as Samsung Surges
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e ,   J e s s i c a   S u m m e r s   a n d   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2013-08-13T21:25:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/emerging-market-stocks-rise-for-fourth-day-as-samsung-advances.html
Emerging-market stocks rose for a
fourth day, the longest rally in almost a month, as economic
data from Germany to the U.S. bolstered the outlook for global
growth and  Samsung Electronics (005930)  Co. lifted technology shares.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index increased 0.8 percent to
965.94. Benchmark gauges from  South Korea  to  Russia  added at
least 1.4 percent and Brazil’s Ibovespa gained a fifth day in
the longest rally since April. Samsung Electronics, the world’s
largest smartphone maker, surged 4.7 percent in  Seoul  on bets
the company may buy back shares. OAO Gazprom paced gains in
energy shares in Moscow, while steelmaker Cia. Siderurgica
Nacional SA advanced to a three-month high in Sao Paulo.  A measure of technology companies led gains among the 10
groups in the benchmark for developing nations, rallying 2.4
percent. Economic reports showed that German investor confidence
topped forecasts and U.S. retail sales increased. Chinese stocks
are attractive as the risk of a sudden slump in the world’s
second-biggest economy is receding and valuations trail other
markets, according to Baring Asset Management Ltd.  “You’ve got better growth prospects,”  Peter Sorrentino ,
who helps manage about $14.7 billion at Huntington Asset
Advisors in Cincinnati, said by phone. “We’re seeing some
positive signs out of Europe, and the fact that  China  seems to
have stabilized holds the prospect that things don’t get worse.
That tends to be encouraging.”  Today’s rally trimmed this year’s plunge in the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index to 8.5 percent, compared with a 14
percent surge in the MSCI World Index. The broad measure of
developing nations is trading at 10.2 times estimated earnings,
below the valuation of developed markets of 13.9.  Emerging ETF  The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index  exchange-traded
fund added 0.6 percent to $39.97. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
fell 1.4 percent to 21.43.  Brazil’s Ibovespa added 0.6 percent as signs that the
global economy is improving boosted raw-material producers,
offsetting losses by homebuilders. Steelmaker CSN extended a
five-day rally to 16 percent. The real weakened.  The Micex Index rose to the highest level in three weeks as
Gazprom, Russia’s gas export monopoly, and OAO Mechel, the
nations biggest producer of coal for steelmakers, rallied more
than 2.1 percent. Benchmark gauges in the  Czech Republic  and
Turkey gained, while stocks in  Hungary (BUX)  retreated.  Chinese Shares  China’s stocks rose for a third day as lenders advanced
after Industrial Bank Co. surged to a one-month high after
reporting a jump in first-half profit. The nation’s shares trade
at the cheapest  valuation  of the world’s top 10 stock markets,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “China’s overall market is stabilizing, relieving concerns
regarding the hard landing scenario for the rest of this year,”
said Agnes Deng, head of  Hong Kong  and China equities at Baring,
which manages $57.4 billion globally. “China stocks’ valuation
is quite cheap and attractive.”  The Kospi Index jumped 1.5 percent as Samsung surged the
most in a month. A buyback “will show the company’s willingness
to boost the share price, if proven to be true,” said Kim Young Chan, an analyst at Shinhan Investment Corp. Jason Kim, a
Samsung spokesman, declined to comment.  India’s  S&P BSE Sensex (SENSEX)  gained 1.5 percent as the government
announced additional measures to trim the current-account
deficit and support the nation’s currency.  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) , the
nation’s biggest private lender, rose the most since June 28.
The rupee strengthened.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries slid 0.09 percentage point to 317 basis
points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Summers in New York at 
 jsummers17@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  