-- Leoni Gains After Raising Forecast on Automotive Orders
-- B y   W e i x i n   Z h a
-- 2013-08-13T11:09:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/leoni-gains-after-raising-forecast-on-automotive-orders.html
Leoni AG (LEO)  rose to a two-year high
after the German maker of cables and wires raised its full-year
sales forecast 2.7 percent on “better-than-expected” orders
from the car industry.  Leoni  increased  as much as 6.7 percent to 41.26 euros, the
highest intraday price since July 2011, and was trading up 5.4
percent at 1:01 p.m. in  Frankfurt , valuing the company at 1.33
billion euros ($1.77 billion). Trading volume was more than
double the three-month daily average.  The company is predicting that sales in 2013 will total
approximately 3.8 billion euros this year, compared with an
earlier forecast of 3.7 billion euros, the Nuremberg, Germany-based manufacturer said today in its second-quarter earnings
report. Leoni benefited from the expansion of the car industry
in  China  and the U.S., while sales in Europe were down
“significantly,” it said.  “Growth in sales of wiring systems, cable harnesses and
automotive cables more than compensated for weak business
involving industrial wire and cable products” in the quarter,
the company said. The wire and cable solutions unit’s new orders
in the first half rose 3 percent to 840 million euros, it said.  “The many orders are mainly from the car industry and will
show up positively in 2014,” including sales contracts that
Leoni received from two German producers in China, Frank Biller,
an analyst at LBBW in Stuttgart, Germany, said by phone.  Earnings Decline  Second-quarter earnings before interest and taxes fell 23
percent from a year earlier to 39.3 million euros, missing the
42.3 million-euro average of 11 analyst  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Leoni needed to scale down capacity at a plant in Stolberg,
 Germany , after cable projects for the petrochemical industry in
 Iran  were canceled because of international trade sanctions, the
wiremaker said. The manufacturer also shifted a production line
to  Mexico  from  Morocco  and reduced some output of household-appliance cables in China.  “Adjusted for metal prices, restructuring costs and
investment, the result is actually decent,” Biller said.
“These are merely one-time costs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weixin Zha in Frankfurt at 
 wzha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  