-- Merkel Blasts Tax Rises as ‘Poison’ as She Starts Campaign
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   A r n e   D e l f s
-- 2013-08-14T10:05:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/merkel-blasts-tax-increases-as-poison-as-she-starts-campaign.html
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
denounced tax increases as “poison” as she waded into the
campaign for Sept. 22 elections vowing to remain in office for
the full four-year legislative period if she wins another term.  Speaking in Berlin late yesterday after returning from a
two-week vacation, Merkel rebuffed the charge that her election
effort is excessively cautious, saying there are “very clear”
differences with the opposition Social Democrats. She singled
out taxes, which SPD chancellor candidate  Peer Steinbrueck  has
pledged to raise, minimum wages and European policy.  With German economic expansion of 0.7 percent in the second
quarter helping haul the euro area out of a record recession,
Merkel signaled that in a third term she’d hold to the same
crisis-resolution course she has pursued since the turmoil
erupted in  Greece .  “I will ensure that solidarity leads to results,” Merkel
said during a panel interview for Phoenix Television, defending
 Germany ’s commitment to help other euro-area countries battered
during the debt crisis while insisting upon structural reforms
in return. “It makes no sense if structurally nothing
changes.”  Campaign Tour  Merkel embarks on a 56-stop campaign tour of Germany today,
five-and a half weeks to the election that will determine
whether she or Steinbrueck, her first-term finance minister,
assumes the controls of  Europe ’s biggest economy. She aims to
defend her lead in the polls over the SPD, which has failed to
 gain ground  even as Steinbrueck sharpens his political attacks.  Support for Merkel’s  Christian Democratic Union  and its
Bavarian sister party, the  Christian Social Union , held at 40
percent in a weekly Forsa poll for Stern magazine and RTL
television published today. The SPD had 23 percent, also
unchanged, while its Green party ally dropped a percentage point
to 13 percent.  With backing for Merkel’s Free Democratic Party coalition
partner steady at 5 percent, the poll result would allow the
chancellor to continue her current government if replicated at
the election, according to Forsa.  With policy making over the  European debt crisis  put on
hold until after the vote, Merkel rebuffed questions about
additional assistance for Greece. Instead, she pointed to
“positive elements” as the euro economy begins a turnaround.  “We need to give Greece a little time so that things can
develop a bit,” Merkel said.  Full Term  She also offered her most explicit denial yet of reports
that she plans to step down during a prospective third term.
Responding to an Aug. 7 report in Stern that she planned to
leave office in 2016 if re-elected, Merkel said “the people who
wrote that didn’t ask me.”  “Of course I want to govern for a full legislative
period,” she said.  Merkel plunges into the campaign in the Hessian city of
Seligenstadt at 5 p.m. followed by an appearance in Ludwigshafen
at 7 p.m., the first of almost daily rallies in the run-up to
the vote. Steinbrueck is mobilizing a get-out-the-vote effort
that will bet on undecided voters turning to the SPD’s message
of social justice.  Having had the stage to himself during Merkel’s vacation,
Steinbrueck’s approval rating rose in the Forsa poll, with 23
percent of respondents saying they would choose him if they were
able to elect the chancellor directly, an increase of 2 points,
against 54 percent who said they favoured Merkel, down a point.  While the poll suggests that Steinbrueck has won over some
SPD voters to his side, the “slight improvement” doesn’t
amount to a sustainable trend, Forsa chief Manfred Guellner said
in a telephone interview. “Voters have no great sympathy for
Steinbrueck,” he said. After revelations of his fees for
speaking and comments that the chancellor should be paid more,
“many still see him as arrogant and greedy,” Guellner said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Arne Delfs in Berlin at 
 adelfs@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  