-- Merkel Ally Says Schaeuble Hungry to Stay On as Finance Minister
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   A r n e   D e l f s
-- 2013-08-13T15:24:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/merkel-ally-says-schaeuble-hungry-to-stay-on-as-finance-minister.html
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  is fit and “hungry” to remain in his post for
another four years, said the parliamentary caucus leader of
 Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s Christian Democratic bloc.  Volker Kauder  said in an interview in Berlin today that he
talked in the past few days with Schaeuble, a wheelchair user
who turns 71 four days before the Sept. 22 vote, and concluded
he’s willing and able to stay on as finance minister. Kauder
also signaled there were no serious rivals for the job.  “Wolfgang Schaeuble is in good health and hungry for
action,” Kauder said. “As I know him, he wants to continue.”
Asked to speculate on a party successor to Schaeuble, Kauder
said, “I don’t even want to think about it.”  Kauder’s comments are the clearest indication yet that the
minister who has been at the vanguard of Merkel’s austerity-first agenda throughout the debt crisis that erupted in 2009 at
the beginning of her second term will return to the  Finance
Ministry  if she wins a third.  Schaeuble, who has served in  Germany ’s lower house, or
Bundestag, since 1972 and played a central role in German
reunification 23 years ago, was interior minister from 2005
before Merkel appointed him to the finance portfolio in 2009.
He said in an interview last September that he was prepared to
continue in office if he was re-elected.  The German finance minister has been partially paralyzed
since being shot by a deranged assailant at a campaign rally in
1990. His health became an issue for Merkel in 2010, when he was
forced to miss several crisis meetings after being repeatedly
hospitalized.  Schaeuble is due to join the campaign trail on Aug. 19,
when he holds a rally in Guetersloh in North-Rhine Westphalia
state, the first of about 37 appearances in the five weeks
before the ballot. The following day, Aug. 20, Schaeuble will
hold four separate rallies in Schleswig-Holstein and in Hamburg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Arne Delfs in Berlin at 
 adelfs@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  