-- Euro-Area Industrial Production Expands Less Than Estimated
-- B y   P a t r i c k   H e n r y
-- 2013-08-13T09:20:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/euro-area-industrial-production-expands-less-than-estimated.html
Euro-area industrial output expanded
less than economists estimated in June as the currency bloc’s
economy struggles to emerge from a record-long recession.  Factory production  in the 17-nation euro area rose 0.7
percent from May, when it decreased a revised 0.2 percent, the
European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said today.
That was less than the gain of 1 percent projected by
economists, according to the median of 37 forecasts in a
Bloomberg News survey. June production rose 0.3 percent from the
year-earlier month, the first annual increase in 20 months.  Europe ’s  manufacturing industry  expanded in July for the
first time in two years and business confidence improved for a
third month, bolstering optimism that the economy edged back to
growth last quarter after 18 months of contraction. Still, the
euro-area jobless rate has risen to a record  12.1 percent , and
youth unemployment is more than 50 percent in  Spain  and Greece.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said this
month that recent data indicate the euro area is through the
worst of the slump and “tentatively confirm the expectation of
a stabilization in economic activity.” Investor confidence in
 Germany , Europe’s largest economy, increased more than
economists expected in August, data showed today.  The  euro-zone  economy is estimated to have expanded 0.2
percent in the second quarter, according to a separate Bloomberg
survey of economists. Gross domestic product declined 0.3 percent
in the first quarter, a sixth consecutive contraction. The 
statistics office will release the latest GDP data tomorrow.  ‘Extended Period’  Relative calm on financial markets has helped the euro area
begin to recover from the longest slump since the debut of the
single currency. The ECB has cut  interest rates  to their lowest
ever and Draghi has pledged they will stay there or lower for an
“extended period.”  Europe’s benchmark Stoxx 600 index has gained almost 10
percent so far this year and was up 0.5 percent to 307.62 at
10:17 a.m. in  London , reaching the highest since May. The euro
has appreciated 1.9 percent against the  U.S. dollar  in the past
month and traded at $1.3314, up 0.1 percent on the day.  Industrial output in Germany, Europe’s largest economy,
expanded 2.5 percent in June after a 0.7 percent drop a month
earlier, today’s report showed. French output fell 1.5 percent
after a 0.3 percent decrease. Production in Spain dropped 0.5
percent, while Italy recorded a 0.3 percent increase.  Potential Drag  Production of capital goods rose 2.5 percent in June after
a 1.1 percent drop a month earlier. Output of non-durable
 consumer goods  rose 4.9 percent after a 1.9 percent decline.
Energy production decreased 1.6 percent.  Rising unemployment is a potential drag on the economic
recovery, though there are signs the labor market may be turning
the corner. While the euro-area jobless rate has held at a
record since March, the number of unemployed people declined in
June for the first time in more than two years, the statistics
office said on July 31.  “The labor market remains the main bugbear of the euro
zone, as rising joblessness hurts growth and raises political
and social tensions,” said Rob Dobson, senior economist at
 Markit Economics . “But even here there was some better news.”  The rate of job-cutting in the euro area eased to a 16-month low in July, Markit said in a report this month. Still,
unemployment is forecast to rise to 12.4 percent in the fourth
quarter and to average 12.3 percent next year, according to a
Bloomberg monthly survey of economists.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patrick Henry  in Brussels at 
 phenry8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  