-- European Stock Holdings Rise to Five-Year High, BofA Says
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2013-08-13T12:31:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/european-stock-holdings-rise-to-five-year-high-bofa-says.html
European equity holdings rose to the
highest level in five years as optimism that the region’s
economy is recovering surged, a Bank of America Corp. survey of
investors showed.  A net 17 percent of money managers, who together oversee
$516 billion, are now overweight euro-area equities, meaning
they hold more of the region’s shares than are represented in
global benchmarks, according to the survey. That’s the highest
since January 2008. Allocation to stocks in emerging markets
fell to the lowest level since 2001.  Investors were the most optimistic on  Europe ’s economy in
nine years. A report tomorrow may show the euro area returned to
growth in the second quarter, after six straight contractions.
Gross domestic product in the 17-nation region expanded 0.2
percent in the three months through June, economists forecast in
a Bloomberg  survey .  “We’re seeing Europe lead global sentiment for the first
time in about three years,” John Bilton, European investment
strategist at Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch unit, said at a
press conference in London today. “Investors who have avoided
Europe for a long time are beginning to come back and say, ‘I’d
like to own Europe, but I don’t just want the global proxy
that’s domiciled in Europe, I actually want to own Europe.’
That’s a big shift.”  European stocks rose for a fourth day today as German
 investor confidence  climbed more than forecast. The Stoxx Europe
600 Index added 0.4 percent to 307.16 at 1:15 p.m. in  London ,
extending this year’s rally to 9.8 percent. That still trails
the 14 percent surge for the MSCI World Index of developed-market shares and 18 percent gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index in 2013, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sector Holdings  European fund managers increased their holdings of
financial firms and companies most reliant on domestic growth.
Banks, telecommunications, industrial and insurance companies
were among the most owned stocks, according to a separate survey
of 112 investors in the region.  Investors moved to an overweight position in U.K. stocks
for the first time since 2003 and also became more bullish on
U.S. equities, the global survey showed. They trimmed holdings
in  emerging markets  to 19 percent underweight, the lowest since
November 2001 and cut Japanese allocations to 19 percent
overweight from 27 percent overweight in July.  The survey of 180 global fund managers took place from Aug.
2 to Aug. 8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in London at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  