-- Mexico’s Peso Falls as Energy Reform Letdown Adds to Fed Concern
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-08-13T14:31:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/mexico-s-peso-falls-as-energy-reform-letdown-adds-to-fed-concern.html
Mexico ’s peso fell on speculation
the U.S.  Federal Reserve  will curb record stimulus and after
President Enrique Pena Nieto’s energy bill contained fewer
incentives for private oil companies than a rival proposal.  The peso declined 0.6 percent to 12.7629 per  U.S. dollar  at
9:15 a.m. in Mexico City, the most among major Latin American
currencies after Chile’s peso. The Mexican currency has
retreated 1.1 percent in the past two days.  Speculation is growing that the Federal Reserve will start
tapering record stimulus after U.S. retail sales rose in July
for a fourth consecutive month, helping prompt the  dollar  to
strengthen against all 16 of its most-traded counterparts. The
peso is also reacting to Pena Nieto’s energy reform proposal
yesterday, which contained fewer incentives for private  oil
companies  than his main political rival party had put forth.  “The move signals slight disappointment over the details
of the proposal, with investors probably expecting a more
aggressive plan,” Juan Carlos Alderete, a strategist with Grupo
Financiero Banorte SAB, said in an e-mailed report today.  Some investors also may have sold the peso after a run-up
in prices as a result of prior optimism over the possible
contents of the bill, Alderete said. The peso rallied 5.9
percent from a 10-month low on June 20 through last week, the
most among developing nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Pena Nieto’s plan would limit producers to profit-sharing
contracts that provide less control over the oil than
concessions proposed by the largest opposition party, the
 National Action Party .  The 0.2 percent increase in U.S. retail sales followed a
0.6 percent gain in June that was larger than previously
reported, according to Commerce Department figures issued today
in  Washington . The median forecast of 81 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg called for a 0.3 percent advance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  