-- Fast Surgery May Boost Survival for Leaky Heart Valves
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-08-13T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/fast-surgery-may-boost-survival-for-leaky-heart-valves.html
People with damaged  mitral valves ,
which allow blood to flow backward in the heart, live longer and
healthier lives if they get immediate surgery to repair a severe
defect rather than wait for symptoms to appear.  For decades, patients have delayed surgery with the goal of
avoiding the operation’s dangers because the heart can often
compensate and the risk of an operation was substantial. Today’s
study published in the  Journal of the American Medical
Association  shows the reasons for delaying are no longer true.  Getting the operation within three months boosts survival
by 45 percent over a decade for those with valve regurgitation
that hasn’t caused symptoms, the study found. The safety and
success rates for surgical repair have risen dramatically in the
past decade, said  Rakesh Suri , a cardiovascular surgeon at the
Mayo Clinic in Rochester,  Minnesota .  “When the patient does develop severe regurgitation, at
time zero of diagnosis, the clock begins ticking,” said Suri,
the lead author of the study. “If we can relieve the strained
heart muscle within a few months, we know it will last longer.”  The problem can be spotted initially during a routine
physical exam, when a doctor detects a heart murmur. The
condition at first may be mild and slowly progress.  More than  2 million people  in the U.S. have mitral valve
regurgitation, and the number with moderate to severe disease is
expected to reach almost 5 million by 2030. While surgery can be
performed to repair the damaged valve, companies including
 Medtronic Inc. (MDT) ,  Edwards Lifesciences Corp. (EW) ,  Abbott Laboratories (ABT) 
and St. Jude Medical Inc. make prosthetic devices.  Study Findings  The researchers analyzed data from 1,021 patients with
severe  regurgitation  in the mitral valve, which lies between the
left atrium and the left ventricle, the heart’s main pumping
chamber. The patients didn’t yet have symptoms of the defect,
such as shortness of breath, chest pain or irregular heartbeats.  After a decade, 86 percent of those treated within three
months of diagnosis were still alive, compared with 69 percent
of those who were initially monitored to see if the condition
worsened. They were also markedly less likely to develop heart
failure, which occurred in 7 percent of those getting immediate
surgery and 23 percent of those who delayed.  There was no difference in the development of atrial
fibrillation, an erratic heart rate that can lead to stroke.  “If a patient has severe leakage, it’s no longer something
that should be managed in a silo,” Suri said in a telephone
interview. “The warning bells should be sounded and these
patients should be referred to heart valve centers.”  Critical Timing  Timing may be critical. Of those who delayed surgery, 59
percent subsequently had an operation, a median of 1.7 years
after the initial diagnosis.  While early surgery is reasonable for those with low risk
and a high probability of success, the choice is less clear in
those with medical conditions or other factors that could make
the operation less successful, said  Catherine Otto , a
cardiologist at the University of Washington’s School of
Medicine in  Seattle .  “Although the majority of these patients will develop
clear indications for valve surgery within two years, it may be
reasonable to postpone the risks of having an intervention and
having a prosthetic valve as long as possible,” she wrote in an
editorial accompanying the study.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  