-- Fed Seen Tapering Quantitative Easing Next Month
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2013-08-14T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/fed-seen-slowing-qe-in-september-by-65-of-economists-in-survey.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  next month will probably reduce the central bank’s $85
billion in monthly bond purchases, according to 65 percent of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The Federal Open Market Committee’s first step may be
small, with monthly purchases tapered by $10 billion to a $75
billion pace, according to the median estimate in a survey of 48
economists conducted Aug. 9-13. The Fed will end the buying by
mid-2014, they said. In a survey last month, half of economists
predicted a Fed reduction in bond buying at the next scheduled
FOMC meeting Sept. 17-18.  “While the data hasn’t been great, it’s been good enough
to support the notion of tapering,” said  Stephen Stanley , chief
economist at Pierpont Securities LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut ,
and a former Richmond Fed economist. “They want to wind  this 
down in an orderly way and get it done in a reasonable period of
time.”  Bernanke and his policy-making colleagues are contemplating
how to finish a third round of so-called quantitative easing
that has swelled the Fed’s balance sheet to a record $3.59
trillion. The unprecedented bond buying is aimed at combating
unemployment and bolstering an economy that expanded by only 1.4
percent in the 12 months through June.  The  unemployment rate  has fallen to 7.4 percent from an 8.1
percent rate reported the week before the Fed started the
current bond-buying program in September. The central bank will
learn more about employment on Sept. 6, when the Labor
Department issues a jobs report for the month of August. In
July, the economy added 162,000 jobs and the unemployment rate
dropped to 7.4 percent from 7.6 percent.  Lockhart’s View  Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart  told reporters after
a speech yesterday that monthly data on employment would be the
most important factor he’ll weigh in considering whether to
favor a slowing of purchases next month. “I wouldn’t rule out
September at all,” said Lockhart, who participates in FOMC
discussions but doesn’t vote on this year on monetary policy.  Economists in a July 18-22 Bloomberg survey expected the
Fed to reduce the pace of purchases by $20 billion to $65
billion. The  central bank  each month is currently buying $45
billion in Treasuries and $40 billion in mortgage-backed
securities.  The Fed’s first cut may be smaller if the pace of job
growth doesn’t accelerate, said  Millan Mulraine , director of
U.S. research at TD Securities in New York.  “If anything, they may err on the side of tapering less
rather than not doing it at all,” he said. “It will be a
cautionary first step for extricating the Fed from QE.”  September Timetable  Fed Governor  Jeremy Stein  in June identified the September
meeting as an opportunity for altering the pace of asset
purchases, and said even disappointing economic reports would be
a small factor in the decision.  The FOMC should “be clear that in making a decision in,
say, September, it will give primary weight to the large stock
of news that has accumulated since the inception of the
program,” Stein said in a June 28 speech in New York. The Fed
should “not be unduly influenced by whatever data releases
arrive in the few weeks before the meeting -- as salient as
these releases may appear to be to market participants.”  Bernanke won’t attend the Kansas City Fed’s annual economic
policy symposium on Aug. 22-24 in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , a venue
he could have used to explain the thinking behind any change in
Fed policy. He is scheduled to hold a press conference after the
FOMC meeting next month.  Economy’s Health  “As the economy continues to improve and pick up, this
will warrant further cuts” to the pace of purchases, said
Thomas Costerg, an economist with Standard Chartered Bank Plc in
 New York . “Although we think it helps if you have a press
conference to start the process, we don’t think for further
steps you need a media conference.”  By the December meeting, the pace of purchases will
probably slow to $55 billion, split between $25 billion in
mortgage bonds and $30 billion in Treasuries, according to the
survey. By March, the pace will slow further to $15 billion of
mortgage debt and $20 billion in Treasuries.  The tapering probably will coincide with a leadership
transition at the Fed, according to economists. Bernanke’s term
as chairman ends in January, and President  Barack Obama  has said
he’s considering his former economic adviser  Lawrence Summers ,
current Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  and former Vice Chairman
 Donald Kohn  as potential successors for Bernanke.  A new Fed chairman would take over after tapering starts
and before it ends.  QE Tally  According to the median estimate in the survey, the pace of
purchases will fall to zero at the end of the FOMC’s June 17-18
meeting. Once finished, the central bank will have purchased a
total of $1.29 trillion in bonds over the course of the program,
divided between $665 billion of mortgage securities and $624
billion of Treasuries.  The total estimated size of purchases has declined from the
July survey, in which economists estimated the program would
total $1.32 trillion. That’s in line with a timeline Bernanke
outlined to Congress, and in the press conference after the
Fed’s June meeting.  “It would be appropriate to begin to moderate the monthly
pace of purchases later this year” if economic data match Fed
forecasts, Bernanke said in July 17 testimony to the House
Financial Services Committee. “If the subsequent data continued
to confirm this pattern of ongoing economic improvement and
normalizing inflation, we expected to continue to reduce the
pace of purchases in measured steps through the first half of
next year, ending them around midyear.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;
Catarina Saraiva in Washington at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  