-- Florida to Sue Georgia in U.S. Supreme Court Over Water
-- B y   T o l u s e   O l o r u n n i p a   a n d   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2013-08-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/florida-to-sue-georgia-in-u-s-supreme-court-over-water.html
Florida  plans to file a U.S. Supreme
Court lawsuit against Georgia, saying the state is consuming too
much water that would otherwise flow to Florida, the latest
battle nationally over an increasingly scarce resource.  The dispute is fueled by the rapid growth of the
metropolitan area surrounding Atlanta, which is demanding more
water and hurting the oyster industry in Northwest Florida,
Florida Governor Rick Scott, 60, said yesterday. Scott, a
Republican, said he would file suit next month after the two
states couldn’t reach an agreement.  “That’s our water,” Scott told reporters while standing
next to the Apalachicola Bay in the Florida Panhandle. “They’ve
impacted our families. They’ve impacted the livelihood of people
down here.”  For more than 20 years, Florida,  Georgia  and Alabama have
been mired in negotiations over the distribution of water shared
by the three states. The dispute is emblematic of an
increasingly common challenge facing cities and states across
the country: Demand for water is outpacing supply as urban
development and population growth sap resources.  Urban development in Georgia has led to an increased need
for water, much of it pumped from a river basin that’s also
relied on by Florida and Alabama.  ‘Unchecked Consumption’  Georgia has engaged in “unchecked consumption of water,”
while not negotiating in good faith, making a lawsuit the only
way to resolve the matter, Scott said in a statement.  Georgia Governor Nathan Deal, 70, a Republican, said in a
statement that Scott’s planned lawsuit is a “frivolous waste of
time and money.”  “Scott’s threat to sue my state in the U.S. Supreme Court
greatly disappoints me after I negotiated in good faith for two
years,” Deal said. “More than a year ago, I offered a
framework for a comprehensive agreement. Florida never
responded.”  Legal disputes between states must be heard by the U.S.
Supreme Court, instead of going through lower courts first,
according to the Constitution.  The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers is responsible for
managing the water in the states’ shared river basin, which
spans the Apalachicola, Chattahoochee and Flint rivers.  Fighting Georgia  Officials in  Alabama , which has also fought Georgia over
water distribution, haven’t said whether they’ll join in the
lawsuit. The state will consider “all available options” to
protect its water rights, said Jennifer Ardis, a spokeswoman for
Alabama Governor Robert Bentley, a Republican, in an e-mail.  At a hearing yesterday in Apalachicola, U.S. Senator Bill Nelson, a Florida Democrat, and U.S Senator Marco Rubio, a
Florida Republican, both blamed Georgia for taking more than its
fair share of water. Georgia’s consumption, along with a drought
last year, threatens fisheries and economic development in the
Florida Panhandle, they said.  The oyster industry in Apalachicola Bay has collapsed over
the past year. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration issued a fishery disaster declaration on Aug. 12
over oysters.  Scott and Nelson have both pushed for the disaster
declaration during the past year.  “The changes to water flow have decimated a once booming
industry, but I’m hopeful we can soon start to turn things
around,” Nelson said in a statement.  Apalachicola Bay supplies 10 percent of the nation’s
oysters, according to a December report by Florida’s Fish and
Wildlife Conservation Commission. The industry supports about
2,500 jobs in Florida, according to the report.  Many of those jobs, and perhaps the industry, are at risk
due to the lack of fresh water flowing into the bay, Rubio said.  “We don’t have time,” said Rubio. “In a couple years,
there may not be anybody left to save around here in this
industry.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toluse Olorunnipa in Tallahassee, Florida at 
 tolorunnipa@bloomberg.net ;
Michael C. Bender in Washington at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  