-- Ford Says China Sales Keep Focus Atop Global Sales Chart
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2013-08-13T20:13:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/ford-says-china-sales-keep-focus-atop-global-sales-chart.html
Ford Motor Co. (F)  said its Focus
compact remained the top-selling car worldwide in the first
quarter as sales more than doubled in  China .  The automaker, citing data from researcher R.L. Polk & Co.,
said global Focus registrations rose 18 percent in the first
three months of the year to 288,724. In China, Focus sales rose
153 percent to 104,065, making it the No. 1 market for the small
car, surpassing the U.S. Ford produces the Focus in nine
factories worldwide and sold 1.02 million last year.  Ford has said the Focus overtook  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s
Corolla compact last year, which the Japanese automaker
disputed. Toyota, which includes Corolla derivatives such as the
Matrix in its count, has insisted its model remains the world’s
top-selling vehicle. The disagreement shows how heated the
battle for bragging rights has become as  Detroit  has stepped up
its game in cars and challenged Toyota and  Honda Motor Co. (7267)   “Toyota is feeling the pressure right now from all
directions,” said  John Wolkonowicz , an independent auto analyst
based in  Boston . “Toyota used to be the brand where everybody
went, but they’re kind of losing their mojo. There’s nothing
wrong with the product, it’s just that everyone else has gotten
so much better.”  Focus has pulled ahead of Corolla because its styling is
more eye-catching, Wolkonowicz said. Both models deliver on
other small-car attributes, such as fuel economy and safety.  “People want a car that turns heads and the Focus does
that,” Wolkonowicz said. “Toyota realizes their Achilles heel
is design. Toyota design needs a makeover.”  New Corolla  Ford fell less than 0.1 percent to $17.06 at the close in
 New York . The shares have climbed 32 percent this year, compared
with a 19 percent increase for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Toyota has a new Corolla coming next month that features
knife-edge creases and a gaping, trapezoidal grille. While it’s
not as edgy as the Furia concept Toyota showed at the  Detroit
auto show  in January, the new Corolla aims to give the company a
dash of style as Toyota President Akio Toyoda has demanded.  “The new Corolla is more distinctive and is an
acknowledgment that the previous model was too bland,” said Tom Libby, Polk’s lead analyst for  North America . “I talked to a
Focus buyer in his 40s and he told me he really likes the look
of the hatchback.”  ‘Big Picture’  Toyota said it’s optimistic about the new Corolla and isn’t
focused on a sales race with Ford.  “We tend to look at the big picture, not at sales results
for any one model in any one quarter,” Michael Kroll, a Toyota
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. “With a newly styled
Corolla coming later this year, we are confident that the
world’s best-selling vehicle will continue to set the global
standard for value, reliability and customer satisfaction.”  Focus global registrations have grown 57 percent since the
first quarter of 2009, according to Erich Merkle, Ford’s sales
analyst. The Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker redesigned the
model in 2010 as Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  emphasized
fielding competitive, fuel-efficient cars with distinctive
design. Previously, cars had taken a back seat to trucks and
sport-utility vehicles at Ford.  “The Focus goes beyond just being a utilitarian vehicle,”
Merkle said in an interview. “It provides something more
expressive on the road than many of its competitors.”  ‘Glaring’ Discrepancy  Toyota disputed that the Focus surpassed the Corolla in
global sales last year. Toyota said it sold 1.16 million
Corollas worldwide last year, topping Focus by 140,000 vehicles.
Toyota took issue with how Polk, based in Southfield,  Michigan ,
counted Corolla deliveries, which excluded derivatives such as
the Auris in  Europe  and Verso in  Japan .  “Corolla registrations attributed to Polk come up short by
nearly 300,000 units,”  Mike Michels , Toyota’s U.S. vice
president of communications, said in April. “This discrepancy
is glaring and we have requested clarification.”  Polk has provided clarification to Michels by explaining
that Ford requested all Corolla derivatives be excluded in the
registration comparison between the two models, according to
Anthony Pratt, a vice president of forecasting for the
researcher.  “Ford benefits from the fact that they go to market as the
 Ford Focus  around the world while some of their competitors may
use different names in different markets,” Pratt said in an
interview. “We validate the position as being the highest
registration volumes based on a strict interpretation based on
the fact that Ford was looking at vehicle nameplate.”  ‘Ford’s Analysis’  While Pratt verified that Ford is using Polk data, he
added: “This is Ford’s analysis of Polk data. It’s not that
Polk is issuing a press release or a report.”  Pratt declined to provide a figure for first-quarter
worldwide Corolla registrations.  In China, Ford benefits from having two versions of the
Focus -- the new model sold in the U.S. and Europe as well as
the previous generation Focus that is sold at a lower price.  Ford isn’t the only U.S. automaker gaining on Toyota. Sales
of  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Chevrolet Cruze compact rose 70 percent
in the U.S. in July and outsold the Corolla.  “The American auto companies are taking the compact
segment far more seriously than they used to,” Wolkonowicz
said. “If the Japanese automakers don’t take Detroit seriously
in compact cars, it’s going to be at their peril.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  