-- Forint Drops as Hungary CPI Fuels Rate-Cut Bets: Budapest Mover
-- B y   M a r t o n   E d e r
-- 2013-08-13T10:55:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/forint-drops-as-hungary-cpi-fuels-rate-cut-bets-budapest-mover.html
The forint weakened for the second
day in the biggest decline among emerging-market currencies as
Hungarian inflation unexpectedly slowed in July, fueling bets
the central bank will continue cutting  interest rates .  The currency dropped 0.6 percent to 299.04 forint per euro
by 11:42 a.m. in Budapest, bringing the two-day decrease to 0.9
percent. Today’s depreciation was the steepest among 24
developing-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Consumer prices rose 1.8 percent last month from a year
earlier, the statistics office said today. The median estimate
of 13 economists in a Bloomberg survey was for a 2 percent
increase. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank cut its benchmark rate for a
12th month in July to a record 4 percent as inflation hovered
near a 39-year low after government-mandated reductions in
household energy tariffs.  The pace of inflation is “far below the central bank’s 3
percent target and this opens room for further cuts,” Karoly Bamli, a Budapest-based currency trader at Commerzbank AG, said
in an e-mailed note today. Further reductions, “albeit probably
at a slower pace, could make the forint more vulnerable, should
sentiment swerve” or if the U.S. Federal Reserve trims the
stimulus that has stoked a rally in emerging assets, Bamli said.  Even as  Hungary ’s economy continues to recover from a 2012
recession, policy makers have said they may reduce borrowing
costs by as much as 1 percentage point with inflation below
target. The central bank will  cut its benchmark rate  by 10 basis
points to 3.9 percent at its meeting this month, the median
estimate of eight economists in a Bloomberg survey shows.  The July inflation figures “do not change the monetary
policy outlook materially, though they provide further support
to easing,” Zsolt Kondrat, chief economist at MKB Bank Zrt.,
 Bayerische Landesbank ’s Hungarian unit, said by e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marton Eder in Budapest at 
 meder4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  