-- GB Auto Plans New Geely Assembly as Second-Quarter Profit Falls
-- B y   T a m i m   E l y a n
-- 2013-08-13T16:11:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/gb-auto-plans-new-geely-assembly-as-second-quarter-profit-falls.html
Ghabbour Auto, a Cairo-based car
distributor, plans to assemble a second model in the country for
 China ’s  Geely Automobile Holdings Ltd. (175) , helping to offset the
loss this year of a contract with  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)   The Cairo-based company which distributes cars for Hyundai,
 Volvo AB (VOLVB) , Geely and  Mitsubishi Motors (7211)  and operates in four
countries in the Middle East, will start assembling Geely’s
four-door hatchback CS5 model next year, Mennatalla Sadek,
corporate finance and investment director, said today.  GB Auto posted a 72 percent slump in second-quarter profit
today hurt by political and economic turmoil in  Egypt  and Iraq,
its main markets. GB Auto, which has assembled variations of the
Hyundai four-door sedan Accent since 1995, has countered the
global trend for declining vehicle sales by expanding in the
Middle East since the Arab Spring began in 2011.  “People were worried about our ability to keep GB Auto
market share without the Verna,” Sadek said. “When we are
introducing another model that is Geely, especially if it is
priced competitively, then we expect very good feedback.”  The SC5 will accompany Geely’s Emgrand 7 as replacements to
Hyundai’s Verna model, Sadek said. There is enough inventory to
keep production of the Verna for another year after the supply
contract ends this year, he said.  GB Auto’s revenue from passenger cars, which account for 65
percent of its earnings, fell 6.4 percent to 1.6 billion
Egyptian pounds ($230 million) in the second quarter.  The shares advanced 1.4 percent to 29 pounds at the close
in Cairo. They have risen 4.5 percent this year compared with a
3.4 percent gain in the benchmark EGX 30 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tamim Elyan in Cairo at 
 telyan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net  