-- Gibson Dunn, Sullivan, Paul Hastings: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-08-13T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/gibson-dunn-sullivan-paul-hastings-business-of-law.html
Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP is
representing  Dole Food Co. (DOLE) , which agreed to a higher takeover
offer from Chairman and Chief Executive Officer David Murdock in
a deal that values the fresh fruit and vegetable producer and
marketer at $1.21 billion. Sullivan & Cromwell LLP represents
the special committee to Dole. Paul Hastings LLP represents
Murdock.  The Gibson Dunn team is led by corporate partner Jonathan Layne and includes corporate partner Peter Wardle. Also on the
team are partners  Andrew Cheng , finance;  Sean Feller  and  Hatef
Behnia , tax.  S&C partners on the deal include Alison Ressler and Pat Brown, corporate; Marc Trevino, executive compensation and
benefits; John Estes and Erik Lindauer, financing; and Ron Creamer, tax.  Corporate partner Peter Tennyson is heading the  Paul
Hastings  team, which also includes, finance partner Michael
Chernick, antitrust partner C. Scott Hataway and M&A partner
Claudia Simon.  Murdock raised his offer to $13.50 a share in cash, the
 Westlake Village , California-based company said in a statement
yesterday. That’s a 13 percent boost from the $12 a share
Murdock, 90, offered in June for the 60 percent of the company
not already owned by him or his family.  Murdock, who served as CEO between 1985 and 2007, returned
to the role in February. He took the company private once
before, in 2003, and has said he wants to do so again to remove
“the concern that a public company must have for the investing
public’s short-term expectations.”  Dole has been unprofitable in two of the last three years
and according to one analyst’s estimate it’s forecast to lose
$11.3 million in 2013. Sales declined in 2012 after the company
divested European businesses and as banana prices fell in  North
America .  The transaction will be paid for with cash and equity
contributed by Murdock as well as financing from  Deutsche Bank
AG (DBK) ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and the  Bank of Nova Scotia. (BNS)  The deal,
expected to close during the fourth quarter, includes a 30-day
“go-shop” period during which the board may consider alternate
proposals.  For more, click here.  Simpson Thacher Advises Pinnacle Foods on Unilever’s Purchase  is representing  Pinnacle Foods Inc. (PF) , the maker of Hungry
Man dinners that’s majority-owned by Blackstone Group LP, in its
agreement to buy Unilever’s Wish-Bone unit for $580 million,
adding the U.S. market leader for Italian salad dressings.
Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP represents Unilever.  The Simpson Thacher team includes partners Dan Clivner,
mergers and acquisitions; and Alden Millard, credit.  The Cravath team included partners Mark I. Greene,
corporate; Michael L. Schler, tax; Matthew Morreale,
environmental; and David J. Kappos, intellectual property.  The transaction is expected to immediately add to earnings
and brings in brands with annual sales of about $190 million,
Parsippany, New Jersey-based Pinnacle said today in a statement.
Wish-Bone also includes the Western dressings brand.  Unilever (UNA) , the maker of hundreds of products from Dove soap
to Knorr soup, has been pruning its food business to focus on
faster-growing health and beauty products. The company sold its
Skippy peanut butter brand this year, having disposed of its
P.F. Chang’s and Bertolli frozen meals businesses in 2012.  The Wish-Bone sale “fits within Unilever’s mantra lately
of repositioning their portfolio to stronger long-term growth
prospect brands,” Erin Lash, an analyst at Chicago-based
Morningstar Inc., said in an interview. “With some of these
brands, they weren’t able to leverage the strength and others
would be more apt to do so.”  For more, click here.  Government Lawyers  SEC Names Aronow Chief Counsel of International Affairs Office  The Securities and Exchange Commission named Geoffrey Aronow chief counsel and senior policy adviser in Office of
International Affairs, the agency said on its  website .  “As the international regulatory arena continues to grow,
the related legal and policy issues will become an increasingly
critical part of the commission’s work,” SEC Chairwoman Mary Jo White said in a statement. “Geoffrey brings significant talent
and experience to this new position, and I am pleased that he
has agreed to take on this role.”  Aronow has been serving as senior counsel to White. In his
new role, he will provide legal counsel to the director of the
office and be involved in advising and formulating commission
policy in the international arena, according to the government.  Moves  Ogletree Deakins Adds Three Shareholders in Portland, Oregon  Ogletree, Deakins, Nash, Smoak & Stewart PC added a group
of three partners in  Portland ,  Oregon , from Littler Mendelson
PC, with traditional labor experience, employment litigation
capabilities, and immigration depth.  The three new lawyers, Howard Rubin, Larry Amburgey, and
Patricia Haim, reunite with partner Caroline Guest and a counsel
who also recently joined Ogletree Deakins from Littler’s
Portland office.  “We’ve made a strategic investment in Portland and the
Northwest, which includes a commitment to attracting and
retaining the best and brightest attorneys in the market,” Kim
Ebert, managing shareholder of Ogletree Deakins said in a
statement. “This group is a real coup for our efforts in the
region as their decades of experience and stellar reputation
underscore the depth of service and value we provide our
clients.”  Rubin has represented public and private sector employers
in employment and labor law matters for more than 25 years. His
traditional labor practice includes the representation of
employers in union organizing campaigns, interest and grievance
arbitrations, unfair labor practice charges, labor agreement
administration, and negotiations, the firm said.  Amburgey has more than 35 years of experience representing
employers in the Pacific Northwest region. In his traditional
labor practice, he handles union organizing campaigns, unfair
labor practice matters, negotiations, grievances, and
arbitrations, the firm said. His employment-law practice focuses
on discrimination and wrongful-discharge claims and claims
arising under the Americans with Disabilities Act, Family and
Medical Leave Act, Age Discrimination in Employment Act and
Title VII.  Haim has almost 30 years of experience representing
employers in labor, employment and business immigration matters.
Her immigration practice focuses on I-9 requirements and
compliance and the filing of visa petitions, the firm said.  Ogletree Deakins has more than 650 lawyers in 44 offices in
the U.S. and  Europe .  News  Holder Mandates Seeks Shorter Sentences for Some Drug Charges  U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder has ordered changes
across the  Justice Department  to eliminate what he called
“Draconian” mandatory minimum sentences for certain non-violent drug offenders.  Holder, in a speech yesterday in  San Francisco , laid out
proposals to reduce the U.S. prison population. He questioned
the effectiveness of the more than 40-year-long “war on drugs”
and announced support for bipartisan efforts in Congress and
states to move away from long sentences in favor of other
punishments.  “We must face the reality that, as it stands, our system
is in too many respects broken,” Holder said at the  American
Bar Association ’s annual conference. “The course we are on is
far from sustainable.”  The Justice Department has been working on a review of the
U.S. criminal-justice system at Holder’s direction since the
start of this year. Lawmakers in Congress have sought to
identify ways to reduce a system that held more than 1.5 million
people in 2012 at federal, state and local levels.  Speaking in April to the National Action Network, a civil
rights advocacy group, Holder contended that mandatory minimum
sentences often “breed disrespect for the system and are
ultimately counterproductive.”  U.S. prosecutors will now sidestep the statutorily required
mandatory minimums by charging low-level, nonviolent offenders
“with offenses for which the accompanying sentences are better
suited to their individual conduct,” Holder says in his
prepared remarks.  For more, click here.  Litigation  Samsung Losses to Apple Give IPhone Maker Negotiation Edge  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s patent-infringement victory over  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  could go far in bolstering its claim of copying
and providing an advantage in any settlement between the world’s
two top smartphone manufacturers.  The U.S. International Trade Commission on Aug. 9 said
Samsung infringed two Apple patents and issued an order banning
imports of products using the iPhone maker’s multitouch features
and headphone jack detection. President  Barack Obama ’s
administration could overturn the import ban on public policy
grounds, as it did Aug. 3 in an order against older iPhones.  “These results give Apple a bit of an edge in the
settlement negotiations that are going on,” said  Susan Kohn
Ross , a lawyer with Mitchell Silberberg & Knupp LLP in  Los
Angeles . “Assuming this order becomes final, the question that
arises is how important are these models of phones and other
electronic gadgets to the overall portfolio of Samsung
products.”  The companies are spending hundreds of millions of dollars
in legal fees for some sort of victory that gives them the upper
hand in a final, negotiated solution. Apple, which initiated the
legal fight in 2011, is seeking to limit the Galaxy maker’s
increasing share of the U.S. smartphone market, where Apple is
No. 1 and Samsung No. 2.  “We now have enough court decisions that pretty soon the
parties are going to understand their relative strengths against
each other and their weaknesses against each other,” said Jeff Lewis of Patterson Belknap Webb & Tyler in  New York .  Apple sued Samsung alleging patent infringement in 2011,
saying the Korean company “has chosen to slavishly copy Apple’s
innovative technology.” Samsung responded a week later with its
own patent claims. The fight escalated into a legal battle on
four continents with no clear winner and no end in sight,
despite negotiations that have included direct talks between
chief executives of both companies.  At stake is an increased share of a smartphone market that
rose 34 percent to $293.9 billion last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The average price of a smartphone has
plunged to $375 from $450 since the beginning of 2012, IDC
estimates.  The Apple ITC case against Samsung is In the Matter of
Electronic Digital Media Devices, 337-796, and Samsung’s case is
In the Matter of Electronic Devices, Including Wireless
Communication Devices, Portable Music and Data Processing
Devices, and Tablet Computers, 337-794, both U.S. International
Trade Commission ( Washington ).  The Apple appeal is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co.,
13-1129,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit
(Washington). The lower court case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung
Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of  California  ( San Jose ).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York,
at   eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 