-- Great Lakes to Gulf Coast Seek Jobs as U.S. Autos Surge
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2013-08-13T04:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/great-lakes-to-gulf-coast-seek-jobs-as-u-s-autos-surge.html
Russell Runge, an assistant city
manager in Missouri, hovered on the edge of a packed reception
for economic-development boosters and automotive-industry
executives in northern Michigan. Runge was seeking jobs.  Runge’s city of  Mexico , Missouri, located between  General
Motors Co. (GM)  and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  factories in Kansas City and St.
Louis metro areas, is home to a small auto-parts maker.  “Obviously, we’d love to see more suppliers in the area,”
he said last week after a long day at the Center for Automotive
Research’s annual industry conference near Traverse City.  He wasn’t alone. The 17-page roster of registered attendees
included a who’s who of economic-development officials from the
Great Lakes to the Gulf Coast, all seeking a piece of a growing
industry. The conference has long attracted state and local
government officials eager to gain an audience with auto
industry leaders by offering everything from MoonPies to cash
incentives. There was new urgency and vibrancy this year.  “The interest has more than doubled” from state and local
government officials compared with five years ago, said Jay Baron, chief executive officer of the Ann Arbor, Michigan-based
Center for Automotive Research.  The car business is booming in the U.S., where sales are
running at the fastest pace since 2007. The auto industry alone
has contributed 14 percent to the otherwise sluggish U.S. gross
domestic product recovery. With the industry’s focus on trimming
costs to boost margins, economic-development officials know that
now, more than ever, is the time to argue that their location,
workforce and community support will make a good marriage.  Dolly Parton  Gary Wallace, vice president of corporate relations at
 Agero Inc. , a Medford, Massachusetts-based automotive supplier
that provides connected-vehicle services, watched the crowd. He
knows what it’s like to be pursued by eager economic-development
officials. His company opened a new call center in Clarksville,
 Tennessee , a year ago, creating 250 jobs to start, with plans to
increase to 500. Before the decision, Tennessee and South
Carolina conducted a full-court press.  “The governors were involved,” he said. “I half expected
Dolly Parton to knock at my door.”  His company ultimately picked Tennessee because the
location had a facility already constructed that fit its needs,
he said.  As U.S. auto sales have rebounded from a 27-year low in
2009, automakers and suppliers are rushing to churn out cars to
meet growing demand. IHS Automotive estimates that North America
light vehicle production may rise to 17.2 million in 2015 from
15.4 million last year.  Boosting Capacity  With suppliers operating at about 80 percent capacity, more
will have to start expanding to keep up with demand, said Dave Andrea, senior vice president of industry analysis and economics
at the Original Equipment Suppliers Association, a trade group.  As the conference played out last week, automakers
announced plans to spend $434 million to boost their capacity to
make vehicles and engines in North America, including a GM plant
in Tennessee and  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  factory in  Ohio .  Many executives are reluctant to commit to building a new
factory and are instead doing what Ford is doing: Adding shifts
and carving out additional capacity the best it can. Ford’s Van
Dyke Transmission plant in Sterling Heights, Michigan, is
running on four shifts, totaling 153 hours a week, said Jim Tetreault, the automaker’s vice president of North American
manufacturing.  Ford’s Emphasis  “We’re still looking at how we get more out of every
plant, and that’ll be a focus for as long as the demand is as
strong as it is,” he said.  As Runge, the Missouri city official, mingled at the
reception, Mike Finney, head of the  Michigan  Economic
Development Corp., sat outside on a couch, contemplating the
many visitors from other states who were wooing auto
investments.  “We’re trying to be on the radar screen of businesses that
are in a growth mode,” he said.  Among his assets: Proximity to the now-growing Detroit
Three’s U.S. manufacturing core and $170 million in cash
incentives for job-creating investments in the next fiscal year
in Michigan.  Finney gave his pitch for how Michigan could help
businesses the same day Michigan Governor Rick Snyder told the
audience that the state has a lot to offer.  The next day, Missouri Governor Jay Nixon made his pitch.
He’s angling to leverage GM’s announcement in January to invest
 $600 million  to expand the Fairfax assembly plant and its $513
million commitment to  prepare  for new mid-size pickups at the
Wentzville assembly plant near St. Louis as well as Ford’s  $1.1
billion  investment in its  Kansas  City area plant.  ‘A Hook’  “We’re using that as a hook to meet with a number of
suppliers that are in that line and getting them to either build
new facilities near us or expand or rent existing facilities,”
he said in an interview. “There’s still investment to be made
in the supplier network. I think that’s going to continue for
the next few years.”  Conference organizers turned away other governors who asked
to speak, said Baron, of the auto research center, citing a
limit of one from outside Michigan.  The rivalries between the governments can be as fierce as
Ford versus GM.  “Clearly, we have issues with Kansas in Missouri, just
because we’re near each other and the Jayhawks are always
somewhat annoying to us,” Nixon said.  He may be competing with Kansas to land suppliers expanding
or relocating as part of GM’s expansion at Fairfax, which is on
the Kansas side of the Kansas City metro area.  GM’s View  Grace Lieblein, GM’s purchasing chief, told the conference
that the automaker aims to save $66 million in shipping costs in
the next-generation Malibu by convincing a supplier to move
closer to the Fairfax assembly plant. The current model is
supplied by part makers located more than 700 miles (1,126
kilometers) away, she said. She didn’t name the supplier.  Greg Burkart, a managing director at Duff & Phelps, which
helps suppliers with revenue of more than $1 billion with site
selection, said he’s getting three to four invitations a week
from various government and economic groups to visit communities
with pitches for why parts makers should locate there.  “From 2008 to 2010, maybe early 2011, it was dead,” he
said. “States are much more aggressive in terms of trying to
attract automotive.”  7 for 1  Each worker hired directly by an automaker creates seven
other jobs either by suppliers or because of spending by those
new employees, the Center for Automotive Research calculates.  While auto-parts makers are still reluctant to expand,
Burkhart said he expects a wave of investment in 2014 and 2015
based on demand from consumers replacing the oldest vehicles
ever on America’s roads.  “It’s only a matter of 18 months, 20 months and I think
the expansion level at the supply industry will really start
accelerating.”  Since the auto industry began, communities have fought each
other for the jobs that come along with car factories. General
Motors founder Billy Durant played Flint and Jackson, Michigan,
off each other for community support in the early 1900s when it
was time to expand Buick, according to Lawrence Gustin’s book
“Billy Durant: Creator of General Motors.”  The new lobbying efforts come after factories were closed
and thousands of jobs were cut in 2009 as U.S. auto demand fell
to 10.4 million cars and trucks from a peak of 17.4 million in
2000. The pain included GM and Chrysler Group LLC reorganizing
through government-backed bankruptcies.  Automotive Jobs  U.S. employment in motor vehicle and parts manufacturing
fell to 524,200 in July 2009 from a peak of 1.16 million in June
2000, according to the Center for Automotive Research.
Employment recovered 26 percent to 662,300 through the end of
2012.  Last week, as Runge, the Missouri city official, surveyed
the crowd at the packed reception, competitors circled.  Trevor Hamilton of the Cincinnati USA Regional Chamber
could be spotted between the open bar serving Michigan beers and
a table of potato chips.  “It’s very competitive,” said Hamilton, who carried
brochures touting the area’s proximity to assembly plants in the
Midwest and South. “We’re competing with every other community
in every other region.”  Nearby, Viktor Mizo, director of technological industrial
development zones for the Republic of Macedonia, part of the
former  Yugoslavia , buttonholed a Chrysler executive, who smiled
politely.  Holy Grail  “It was more about introduction,” Mizo said later.
“We’ve done quite a lot of Michigan events.”  The  Tennessee Economic Partnership  helped sponsor a
networking reception the following night. Among the tables of
appetizers, homage to the Volunteer State could be found,
including meatballs with Jack Daniels sauce and MoonPies.  Chattanooga, home of the MoonPie, was the last big winner
in the game to attract an automotive assembly, or OEM in
industry parlance, with the opening in 2011 of  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s
plant. The Wolfsburg, Germany-based automaker invested $1
billion into the plant that now employs 2,600 people and
attracted suppliers as well.  “Automotive is always seen as the holy grail of economic
development,” Doug Lawyer of the Tennessee Economic Partnership
said. “We’re all here because we know the automotive sector is
growing and we’re interested in making sure that we all get our
piece of that pie.”  As the guests squinted at the stacks of MoonPies, Ben
 France , an Arkansas state economic development official, could
be seen wandering through the crowd. He confided that he wanted
to make some connections: “We need an OEM.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Acme, Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  