-- Gulf Fuels Gain as Outages Rise Amid Export Estimates
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y
-- 2013-08-13T17:34:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/gulf-fuels-gain-as-outages-rise-amid-export-estimates.html
U.S. Gulf Coast gasoline and diesel
strengthened after the nation’s  largest refinery  shut a unit,
adding to plant outages in the region amid a forecast for
increased exports.  Conventional, 85-octane gasoline , or CBOB, on the Gulf
Coast gained 1.75 cents to 18.25 cents a gallon under New York
Mercantile Exchange futures at 1:27 p.m., the smallest discount
since July 31.  Ultra-low-sulfur diesel  gained 0.13 cent to 3.5
cents a gallon under ULSD futures.  Motiva Enterprises LLC said it shut a unit at its 600,000-barrel-a-day Port Arthur,  Texas , refinery, the largest in the
U.S.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PBR)  also idled a fluid catalytic cracker
at the 106,500-barrel-a-day Pasadena, Texas, plant, after a
temperature issue, the company reported Aug. 10.  The shutdown of units could tighten supplies of gasoline
and diesel along the Gulf, the center for U.S. exports, and
contribute to the strengthening of prices as refiners may need
to purchase fuel to meet commitments.  Shipbroker Charles R. Weber Co. forecast Medium-Range
tanker fixtures in the Gulf of Mexico will increase in the week
ended Aug. 9.  Analysts at Petromatrix and JBC Energy also estimated
Europe, a consumer of U.S. diesel, will reduce refinery runs
amid declining margins and because of seasonal maintenance.  ‘Tight Supply’  “Motiva is an issue because if the European Union is
cutting runs then we’re going to have tight distillate supply
and good demand,” said Houston-based Carl Larry, president of
Oil Outlooks & Opinions, LLC.  Distillate inventories  on the Gulf Coast were 41.7 million
barrels in the week ended Aug. 2, 5.4 percent below the average
of the past five years, according to U.S. Energy Information
Administration data. Gasoline stockpiles were  77.2 million
barrels  during the same time period.  The  3-2-1 crack spread  on the Gulf Coast, a rough measure
of refining margins for gasoline and diesel fuel based on West
Texas Intermediate in Cushing,  Oklahoma , widened $1.97 to $13.36
a barrel, a highest since Aug. 1, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The  same spread based  on Light Louisiana Sweet oil
swelled $1.57 to $7.71 a barrel, a one-week high.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harvey in  New York  at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  