-- Li & Fung Profit Misses Estimates on Weaker U.S. Demand
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2013-08-14T02:46:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/li-fung-profit-misses-estimates-on-weaker-u-s-retail-demand.html
Li & Fung Ltd. (494) , the world’s largest
supplier of clothes and toys to retailers, reported first-half
profit that missed analyst estimates amid sluggish demand from
U.S. retail customers.  Net income fell 16 percent to $96 million for the six
months ended June from a year earlier, excluding a writeback in
the year-earlier period, the Hong Kong-based company said in a
statement yesterday. That missed an average  estimate  of $106.3
million from three analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  Li & Fung, whose  customers  include  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,
and  Target Corp. (TGT) , has been pushing to revive its U.S. business
after reporting a net income decline last year. Operating
earnings are set to pick up in the second half of this year due
to back-to-school and holiday season demand, the outsourcer
said.  “While the US retail environment is tracking with the slow
pace of economic recovery, it has remained challenging,” it
said in yesterday’s statement.  Li & Fung gets more than 60 percent of its revenue from the
U.S. and earnings declined last year as an increase in payroll
taxes, higher fuel costs and federal spending cuts hurt  consumer
confidence  in the world’s largest economy. Retail customers have
all adopted a “more cautious view toward their winter sales
this year,” it said yesterday.  U.S. Unit  To revive its U.S. unit, the company has changed management
and discontinued some brands. That restructuring is on track to
be completed by the end of 2013, it said.  LF USA is hitting bottom, said Anne Ling, an analyst at
Deutsche Bank AG and who expects a strong recovery in 2014 for
the group because of an improving U.S. economy. She upgraded the
stock to ‘buy’ from ‘hold.’  Core operating profit rose 1 percent to $223 million.
Second-half core operating profit will be 3 to 4 times that of
the first half and orders for the second half are “solid,”
Chief Executive OfficerBruce Rockowitz said at a press
conference.  “The worst is behind us and we are on track to recovery in
2013,” the company said in its statement. Li & Fung’s order
book is 80-85 percent filled, the same as in previous years,
said Eddie Lau, a Citigroup analyst who expects strong  cash flow 
in the second half of the year as the group’s earnings are
skewing more to that period. He reiterated his ‘buy’ rating.  Acquisitions  Li & Fung, which in March abandoned its three-year profit
target, has relied on acquisitions to boost growth, spending
about $3 billion on  deals  from 2006 to 2011, driving up both
sales and profit in the five-year period, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The company made five acquisitions in the first half.
Earnings in the same period last year were boosted by a
writeback of $198 million on estimated payouts for prior
acquisitions.  The company, which traces its beginnings to 1906 when
parent Li & Fung Group was founded, supplies U.S., European and
Asian retailers with clothes, toys and furniture.  China will remain the company’s top sourcing destination
even as apparel sourcing from  Bangladesh  rose ‘significantly,’’
Rockowitz said. The company has no plans to raise funds this
year, he said.  Li & Fung shares rose 1.4 percent to close at HK$10.54 in
 Hong Kong  yesterday. The benchmark  Hang Seng Index  advanced 1.2
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  