-- Libyan Amazigh Youths Storm Parliament Seeking Recognition
-- B y   M a r i a m   S a m i
-- 2013-08-13T17:38:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/libyan-amazigh-youths-storm-parliament-seeking-recognition.html
Libyan youths of the Amazigh
minority demanding their language be formally acknowledged in
the new constitution stormed the parliament building in Tripoli
and broke into the main hall.  Their anger flared after an Amazigh delegation met with
Parliament Speaker Nuri Busahmein, himself a member of the
minority, and a commission studying Amazigh grievances. Instead
of promising to ensure their language is officially recognized
in the new charter alongside Arabic, the panel said Amazigh
demands would be referred to the so-called Constitutional
Commission composed of 60 members.  “It was the same old answer of referring the entire issue
to the legal committee,” Fathi Youssef, member of the Higher
 Libya  Amazigh Council, said by phone in the capital. “We
strongly denounce the breaking into the parliament, but we could
not do anything to stop these young men.”  Members of the Amazigh, including the Tuareg who are also
known as the Amazigh of the south, say they won’t be properly
represented in the yet-to-be created constitutional committee,
where they will hold just four seats and the Tabu tribes of
southern Libya two, under a law passed in July. Community
leaders have said they won’t field candidates or vote in the
election for panel members, expected within six months.  The tensions add pressure on authorities as they struggle
to consolidate power and create inclusive and accountable
security services to deal with a spike in violence this year.
The constitution will be Libya’s first in about 42 years and
marks a move toward nation building following the 2011
revolution that ousted the late  Muammar Qaddafi .  Amazigh and Tabu protested outside parliament earlier today
demanding their language also be offered at schools. About
600,000 people speak Amazigh in western and southern Libya,
Takhlef Al Abyad, an activist at the demonstration said. Libya’s
population is about 6 million.  Qaddafi persecuted minorities in a drive to highlight
Libya’s Arab identity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Sami in Tripoli at 
 msami2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  