-- Micron to Cut Less Than 5 Percent of Workers in Cost Reduction
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-08-13T23:24:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/micron-to-cut-less-than-5-percent-of-workers-in-cost-reduction.html
Micron Technology Inc. (MU) , the largest
U.S. maker of computer-memory chips, said it will cut less than
5 percent of its workers to reduce costs and become more
efficient.  Jobs will be eliminated through attrition, voluntary
separations and firings through fiscal 2014, which ends in
August of next year, the Boise, Idaho-based company said in an
e-mailed statement. The cuts, taking place across Micron’s
worldwide workforce of about 30,000, won’t include staff brought
on board with the acquisition of Elpida Memory Inc. last month.  “Given the competitive and changing nature of the memory
industry, Micron is continuously assessing its operations to
ensure resources are efficiently and effectively aligned,” the
company said in the statement.  Micron  shares  rose 8.2 percent to $14.97 at the close in
New York, their highest price since November 2006. The cuts were
announced internally yesterday, according to Dan Francisco, a
spokesman for Micron.  Micron -- which has reported a net loss in  five of the past
10 fiscal years  -- competes with South Korea’s Samsung
Electronics Co. and  SK Hynix Inc. (000660)  in the market for chips that
provide the main memory in personal computers.  SK Hynix, which like Micron only makes memory chips, had
20,000 employees as of March, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The company had net income, excluding minority
interest, of 946.8 billion won ($849 million) in the three
months that ended in June. Micron reported earnings of $43
million for the period that ended in May, its most recent
quarter.  Samsung, the largest maker of memory chips, is also the
world’s largest maker of mobile phones and has home-electronics
and flat-panel display businesses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  