-- Millennial Media Will Acquire Jumptap for About $225 Million
-- B y   N i c k   T u r n e r   a n d   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-08-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/millennial-media-agrees-to-buy-jumptap-for-about-225-million.html
Millennial Media Inc. (MM)  agreed to
acquire Jumptap Inc. for about $225 million in stock, scooping
up a competitor in the market for mobile-device advertising.  Jumptap investors will get about 24.6 million Millennial
Media shares, based on their Aug. 9 price, according to a
statement yesterday. The stock closed at $9.13 that day.  Combining the two companies will make it easier for
Millennial, which has seen slowing sales growth, to challenge
Google Inc.’s dominance in mobile advertising. It also will
represent an exit for Jumptap’s investors, who had planned for
an initial public offering before Baltimore-based Millennial
went public last year and started slipping in the stock market.  “The addition of products, people and technology to the
market-leading Millennial Media portfolio will further the
mission of building the leading mobile platform worldwide,”
Jumptap Chief Executive Officer George Bell said in the
statement.  Millennial is the only publicly traded company focused
solely on mobile advertising. The performance of its stock,
which has fallen 35 percent since the IPO in March 2012, has
cast a shadow on similar companies tapping public markets.
Video-ad provider YuMe Inc. lowered its IPO price last week
because of slack demand, while Tremor Video Inc. has tumbled
since its IPO and Adap.tv opted instead for a sale to AOL Inc.  Sales Miss  Millennial reported $57 million in second-quarter revenue,
up 45 percent from $39.4 million a year earlier, the company
said yesterday in a statement. That fell short of the average
analyst estimate of $59.2 million, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Earnings excluding some items were 2 cents a share,
beating an estimated 1-cent loss.  Millennial dropped as much as  14 percent  to $7.28 yesterday
in extended trading after the results were announced. The stock
fell 8.1 percent to $8.50 at the New York close.  Jumptap, based in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , has expertise
in real-time bidding on ads and creating campaigns that reach
users on different screens. Its ads are seen by more than 218
million mobile users in the U.S. and 439 million worldwide,
according to the statement.  Founded in 2005, Jumptap raised $121.5 million in venture
funding as of last year. Its investors included General Catalyst
Partners, Redpoint Ventures LLC, Summerhill Venture Partners,
Valhalla Partners LP,  WPP Plc (WPP)  and  Keating Capital Inc. (KIPO)   Bell, who joined in 2010, refocused the company on targeted
mobile advertising, instead of mobile-search products. At the
time, he cut its staff of 80 by about half and then aggressively
began hiring. As of last year, the closely held startup had
about 150 employees.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nick Turner in  New York  at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  