-- Indian Oil Posts Smaller-Than-Expected Loss on Fuel Compensation
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2013-08-13T10:11:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/indian-oil-posts-smaller-than-expected-loss-on-fuel-compensation.html
Indian Oil Corp. (IOCL) , the nation’s
biggest refiner, reported a loss smaller than analysts expected
after receiving subsidies from the government and state oil
producers for selling fuel below cost.  Net loss  narrowed to 30.9 billion rupees ($506 million) in
the three months ended June 30 from a record 224.5 billion
rupees a year earlier, according to a statement. The median
 estimate  of 17 analysts in a Bloomberg survey was a 55.8 billion
rupee loss. Sales rose 14 percent to 1.1 trillion rupees.  Indian Oil and its state-run rivals  Bharat Petroleum Corp. (BPCL) 
and Hindustan Petroleum Corp. depend on cash compensation from
the federal government and discounts on crude oil from  Oil &
Natural Gas Corp. (ONGC)  and Oil India Ltd. for profit. They sell
diesel, kerosene and cooking gas below the cost of production to
help the government curb inflation for the nation’s 1.2 billion
people.  Indian Oil  shares  rose 0.3 percent to 200.80 rupees at the
close of trading in Mumbai. The stock has slumped 26 percent
this year as the rupee fell to a record, increasing the
company’s cost of importing crude oil. Indian Oil depends on
overseas purchases for about 80 percent of its requirements.  The rupee dropped to an all-time low of 61.805 a dollar on
Aug. 6 after the  Reserve Bank of India  last month cut its
economic growth forecast for the year through March 2014 to 5.5
percent from 5.7 percent. It has depreciated 11.1 percent since
the end of March, making it Asia’s worst performer.  Indian Oil received 42.6 billion rupees as subsidy from the
government and 81.5 billion rupees from state-run oil producers
in the quarter, according to the statement. It didn’t receive
any compensation a year earlier, pushing it to the biggest
quarterly net loss for any company in  India .  Indian state-run oil refiners depend on government
subsidies and discounts on purchases from state-run explorers
Oil and Natural Gas and Oil India to make up for losses from
selling fuel below cost. These payments are usually made every
quarter. In case a subsidy decision is delayed, the payments are
deferred.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  