-- Gold Smuggling to Climb in India on Tax Increase, Festivals
-- B y   S w a n s y   A f o n s o   a n d   P r a t i k   P a r i j a
-- 2013-08-14T12:10:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/india-gold-tax-increase-festival-demand-seen-spurring-smuggling.html
The third increase in  import taxes 
on gold this year by  India , the world’s biggest user, is set to
boost smuggling ahead of the festival and wedding seasons as
official imports halt on central bank curbs, a trade group said.  Gold premiums in India have jumped to a record after banks
and traders suspended imports since the  Reserve Bank  of India
made it mandatory on July 22 for shippers to set aside 20
percent of shipments for re-export as jewelry and the increase
in tariff to 10 percent from 8 percent will further crimp
supplies, said Haresh Soni, New Delhi-based chairman of the All
India Gems & Jewellery Trade Federation.  “Smuggling of gold will increase and the organized
industry will be in disarray,” said Soni, whose federation
represents about 300,000 jewelers and bullion dealers. “Goods
will be kept unofficially and the situation will be
uncontrollable. Jewelry prices will rise.”  India increased taxes on imports of gold, silver and
platinum yesterday to tackle a record current-account deficit
that’s weakened the rupee to an all-time low. Overseas purchases
surged 87 percent to 383 metric tons in the four months through
July from a year earlier after a slump in bullion prices spurred
demand for jewelry, bars and coins. Increased smuggling may
undermine government’s efforts to curb demand and hurt sales at
retailers including Bangalore-based  Titan Industries Ltd. (TTAN)   Efficacy Questioned  “Though measures aimed at gold look the easiest to
implement, the efficacy of such measures will always remain in
question,” ICICI Securities Ltd. said in a research report.
“Further curbs on gold imports could lead to alternate channels
developing, apart from causing severe stress to the jewelry
firms and consequently unemployment.”  The tariffs on gold and platinum imports were increased to
10 percent from as low as 4 percent at the start of the year,
while the levy on silver was boosted to 10 percent from 6
percent, the Ministry of Finance said yesterday. Taxes on
shipments of gold concentrates, ores and dore bars will rise to
8 percent from 6 percent, while the duty on silver dore bars
will climb to 7 percent from 3 percent, it said.  Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram plans to curtail
imports to 850 tons this year to reduce the  current-account
deficit  and boost capital inflows by allowing state-run
financial companies to issue “quasi-sovereign” bonds to
finance infrastructure investments. The deficit, mainly fueled
by crude oil and bullion imports, is the biggest risk to the
$1.9 trillion economy, according to the central bank. The rupee
fell to a record low of 61.8050 per dollar Aug. 6.  Festival Demand  Imports by banks and other traders designated to ship gold
may not be more than 150 tons in the six months through December
from about 478 tons a year earlier, according to Bachhraj Bamalwa, a director at the jewelry federation.  “Government’s intention is to ensure that gold imports are
reduced,” said Rajesh Mehta, chairman of  Rajesh Exports Ltd. (RJEX) 
“Once the festival season starts there could be a shortage in
the market. With this duty increase more imports from the
legitimate channels will get into the illegitimate channel.”  Gold is bought in India during festivals, for marriages as
part of the bridal trousseau and gifted in the form of jewelry
by relatives. The festival season in India runs from August to
October followed by the wedding season from November to December
and from late March through early May.  Organized Gangs  Poor Indian laborers working in the  Middle East  are acting
as couriers for organized gangs in return for a ticket home and
a few thousand rupees, according to Rishi Yadav, assistant
commissioner at the Mumbai customs department’s Air Intelligence
Unit. The gangs seek to benefit by selling that smuggled bullion
to traders and mom-and-pop jewelry stores, who benefit from
cheaper supplies.  At Mumbai airport, customs agents confiscated gold worth 93
million rupees from April to June, almost as much they nabbed in
the whole of the last year, according to Yadav.  Spot gold rose 0.2 percent to $1,324.36 an ounce at 5:38
p.m. in Mumbai today. The metal rebounded 12 percent since
reaching a 34-month low of $1,180.50 on June 28. Gold for
delivery in October advanced 0.1 percent to 28,910 rupees ($471)
per 10 grams on the  Multi Commodity Exchange of India Ltd. (MCX)   ‘Hungry Stomachs’  Consumption in India, which imports almost all the bullion
it needs, accounted for 20 percent of global demand in 2012,
according to data from the gold council. Bullion imports were
845 tons in the 12 months ended March 31, while silver shipments
totaled 1,963 tons, according to the Ministry of Finance. The
government also increased the excise duty on refined gold to 9
percent from 7 percent, and that of silver to 8 percent from 4
percent, the ministry said.  “We cannot preach religion to men with hungry stomachs,”
Bhargav Vaidya, a director at B.N. Vaidya & Associates, a
Mumbai-based company which advises gold traders. “There are no
supplies in the official channel just now. Smuggling will be on
the rise and I hope we are not going back to the Gold Control
Act days,” he said referring to a law that barred bullion
imports, exports and manufacture and sale of jewelry above 14
carats for about three decades from 1968.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Kutty Abraham in Mumbai at 
 tabraham4@bloomberg.net ;
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net ;
Pratik Parija in  New Delhi  at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  