-- India’s Nifty Futures Rise After Inflation, Rupee Support Plans
-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 2013-08-13T02:33:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/india-s-nifty-futures-rise-after-inflation-rupee-support-plans.html
Indian (SENSEX)  stock-index futures gained
after data showed inflation cooled and the government announced
additional measures to trim the current-account deficit and
support the rupee.  SGX CNX Nifty Index futures  for August delivery rose 0.2
percent to 5,607 at 10:12 a.m. in Singapore. The underlying CNX
 Nifty (NIFTY)  Index climbed 0.8 percent to 5,612.40 yesterday. The S&P
BSE Sensex added 0.8 percent, the steepest gain since July 18.
The Bank of  New York  Mellon  India  ADR Index of U.S.-traded
shares fell 0.3 percent.  Consumer prices grew 9.64 percent in July from a year
earlier, compared with 9.87 percent in June, according to data
released after the market closed yesterday. The median forecast
in a Bloomberg survey of analysts was for a 9.71 percent
increase. The government plans to curb some imports and lure
more capital inflows, Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram
said in parliament yesterday. The currency weakened to a record
low against the dollar on Aug. 6.  “Data was definitely better,”  Daphne Roth , Singapore-based head of Asia equity research at ABN Amro Private Bank,
which oversees about $207 billion, said by phone today.
“Consumer price inflation is not doing so bad.”  Rupee Measures  India has implemented a series of measures since last month
to fight a 10 percent slump in the rupee this year that may spur
inflation. Curbs are planned on imports of gold, silver and some
non-essential items, while rules governing overseas commercial
borrowings and certain deposit programs for non-residents will
be eased, Chidambaram said yesterday.  Industrial output shrank 2.2 percent in June, compared with
an estimated 1.1 percent decline, data showed yesterday,
underscoring the risks facing the Indian economy.  Shares of  Hindalco Industries Ltd. (HNDL)  may be active today.
India’s second-biggest aluminum maker may report net income of
3.26 billion rupees ($53.2 million) for the quarter ended June
30, according to the median estimate of 27 analysts in a
Bloomberg survey. That compares with profit of 4.25 billion
rupees in the same period last year.  Earnings Reports  Tractor maker  Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. (MM)  may announce
quarterly profit rose to 8.48 billion rupees, from 7.26 billion
rupees a year ago, according to a Bloomberg survey of 38
analysts.  Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA) , India’s biggest producer, may say net
income dropped to 12.5 billion rupees from 13.6 billion rupees
in the first quarter last year, according to 10 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  About 48 percent of Sensex companies that have reported
earnings so far for the June quarter missed analyst estimates.
That compares with 27 percent for the three months ended March
and 43 percent in the quarter through December, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  The Sensex has lost 2.5 percent this year and  trades  at
13.3 times projected 12-month earnings, compared with the MSCI
 Emerging Markets  Index’s 10.1 times.  International investors  sold a net $55 million of Indian
shares on Aug. 8, a second day of net outflows, data from the
regulator show. That pared this year’s inflow to $12.5 billion,
the data show, the second-biggest among 10 Asian markets tracked
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  