-- India May Import More Iran Oil Within UN Rules, Chidambaram Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2013-08-13T04:11:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/india-may-import-more-iran-oil-within-un-rules-chidambaram-says.html
India  would like to import more oil
from  Iran  without breaching United Nations sanctions, the
finance minister said, signaling a possible reversal of a policy
that saw purchases decline under pressure from the U.S.  Palaniappan Chidambaram in a speech before parliament
yesterday said the country is considering the step without
giving further details as he announced measures to support the
rupee and narrow a record current-account deficit.  “Within UN sanctions and fully compliant with UN sanctions
there may be more space for imports from Iran, so that will give
us some savings in dollars,” Chidambaram said.  While India has abided by several rounds of UN sanctions on
Iran over the country’s nuclear program, it has publicly
criticized unilateral American sanctions as an infringement on
its sovereignty.  The U.S. and European Union are seeking to curb trade in
Iranian oil, arguing the Persian Gulf state’s atomic research is
aimed at producing weapons. The government in Tehran says it is
for civilian purposes. Asian customers of Iran, including  China ,
India and  South Korea , won waivers from the U.S. allowing
imports of Iranian crude as they were able to show purchases had
been curbed.  India imports about 80 percent of its oil, pushing up the
country’s current-account deficit which in turn is hurting
efforts to revive economic growth from a decade low and adding
pressure on the rupee to depreciate. The currency is the worst
performing in  Asia  this year after the Japanese yen.  India imported about 7.2 percent of its oil from Iran in
the last fiscal year, down from 10.5 percent in the prior 12
months, according to the oil ministry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in  New Delhi  at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  