-- IPhone Fingerprint Reader Talk Boosting Biometric Stocks
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d   a n d   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2013-08-14T09:23:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/iphone-fingerprint-reader-talk-boosting-biometric-stocks.html
As the technology world buzzes with
speculation that the next iPhone will have a fingerprint reader,
makers of biometric security devices are bracing for a race
among smartphone makers to adopt the technology.  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  will unveil a new iPhone next month, according
to a person familiar with the plans.  ABI Research  and KGI
Securities Co. are among the industry watchers that say the
device will include a fingerprint reader, a prediction bolstered
by Apple’s $350 million purchase of fingerprint- sensor maker
AuthenTec Inc. last year.  “Apple is giving a strong indication that market leaders
see biometrics as part of their roadmap,” said Thomas Marschall, chief executive officer of  Precise Biometrics AB (PREC) , a
maker of authentication equipment such as fingerprint sensors in
Lund,  Sweden . “All competitors are looking for alternatives to
match Apple -- it’s the kickoff of a rally in the industry.”  Mobile-device makers are turning to biometrics to make
smartphones more secure and quicker for making payments and
accessing files, music and video through so-called cloud
services. An Apple embrace of fingerprint sensors could give the
technology a lift, much like the boost touch screens got after
the iPhone’s introduction in 2007. Device makers started paying
attention to biometrics, which can replace passwords and
signatures, after the AuthenTec acquisition, Marschall said.  Fresh Momentum  Shares of Precise Biometrics have almost  doubled  since
Apple’s AuthenTec deal, on expectation than its technology will
see more demand. It added as much as 10 percent, the most in a
month, in  Stockholm  today.  Fingerprint Cards AB (FINGB) , another Swedish
maker of biometric security solutions, has risen more than
tenfold and gained as much as 2.1 percent today.  A fingerprint sensor would provide iPhone users a simpler
way to access files via the Internet and make mobile purchases,
strengthening Apple in its battle with devices using Google
Inc.’s Android operating system, according to Kuo Mingchi, a KGI
analyst in Taipei who covers Apple suppliers. An iPhone with the
technology would provide “fresh momentum” for fingerprint-sensor suppliers, the analyst said in an Aug. 12 note. Apple
declined to comment.  Mobile payments are set to soar as more people transfer
money and shop on their smartphones. Total transactions will
rise to $721 billion by 2017 from $235 billion this year,
according to researcher Gartner Inc. Smartphones are the biggest
and fastest-growing part of the mobile-phone market.  Tattoo Recognition  Suppliers of secure identification cards with embedded
chips are already benefiting from growing adoption of biometric
authentication. Companies such as  Gemalto NV (GTO) ,  Morpho , and
Oberthur Technologies have developed fingerprint, retina-scanning and facial recognition technologies for customers such
as governments and banks. Now, they say, ID cards and passports
with programmable chips that contain biometric information will
increasingly be used for transactions such as paying subway
fares or online shopping.  “We used to make ID cards and passports,” said Morpho’s
founder Bernard Didier, who is also a senior special adviser to
the company’s parent, Paris-based aerospace, defense and
security group  Safran SA. (SAF)  “Today we’re asking: Why not use your
ID for transport, social security or even payments?”  Morpho, which issues driver’s licenses for 42 U.S. states
and counts governments from Albania to  Chile  among its clients,
has helped customers catch criminals using tattoo recognition
and move travelers through airports more quickly thanks to gates
equipped with facial-recognition.  Parking Tickets  “Electronic passports are only the tip of the iceberg,”
Olivier Piou, CEO of Gemalto, said in a June interview. “Any
chip in an ID card comes loaded with secure software containing
some credentials and some empty spots. We can fill those later
with all sorts of new applications.”  One Gemalto client, Oman, has loaded parking and speeding
tickets as well as tax stamps onto its ID card. Gemalto has
forecast sales at its security business, including
identification, will grow 10 percent or more this year from 384
million euros ($511 million) in 2012, thanks to issuing secure
documents and helping manage the relevant data with software.  Shares of Amsterdam-based Gemalto have  jumped  41 percent in
the past year and advanced as much as 3.1 percent in Paris
today. Morpho’s parent Safran has  gained  52 percent and added as
much as 1.2 percent today.  Still, even as some laptops and computer keyboards come
with fingerprint sensors, biometric identification hasn’t found
widespread consumer popularity. Apple, with its record of
setting trends in technology, may change that, said Johan Carlstroem, CEO of Fingerprint Cards in Gothenburg, Sweden.  “The use of biometrics in consumer electronics isn’t
new,” he said. But if “Apple gets its fingerprint solution to
work seamlessly and delivers a great user experience, it will
mean a paradigm shift and a milestone for biometrics.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Ewing in Stockholm  at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  