-- Rohani Picks Female Vice-President After Vow to Back Women
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2013-08-13T13:54:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/iran-s-rohani-picks-female-vp-after-pledge-to-back-iranian-women.html
Iran ’s President Hassan Rohani, who
has promised to back women’s increased participation in Iranian
society, appointed Elham Aminzadeh as his vice-president for
legal affairs.  Rohani cited her “scientific competence and judicial
qualifications as well as legislative experience and moral
merits” in his appointment letter, which was published on the
president’s  website . Rohani appointed former industry minister
Eshagh Jahangiri as his first vice-president a day after he took
the oath of office.  During his presidential campaign, Rohani pledged to create
more jobs for women. Rohani, a cleric and trained lawyer, has
also criticized the government of former president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad for having increased police patrols and the use of
force to ensure women’s hair and body curves were covered.  Aminzadeh, a former member of the parliament, holds a
doctorate in international law from the  University of Glasgow 
and teaches at the Allameh Tabatabaei University in Tehran,
according to the official  Islamic Republic News Agency  and the
state-run  Fars  news agency. Aminzadeh’s doctoral  thesis  was
titled “The United Nations And International Peace and
Security: A Legal and Practical Analysis.”  Some female activists had criticized Rohani for nominating
only men for his 18-member cabinet. The candidates’ background
and qualifications are being reviewed by the parliament this
week for approval.  ’Good Step’  The appointment is a “good step” in battling the
discrimination felt by Iranian women in the workplace, said
Shahla Ezazi, a sociologist and the director of the women’s
studies group at Iran’s Sociology Association in Tehran.  If Aminzadeh “has been active in politics and management
and has been identified by the president as one of the top
people in this country, then it is her right,” Ezazi said in a
phone interview. It wasn’t “a favour.”  Ezazi said she wasn’t familiar with Aminzadeh and unable to
comment on her accomplishments or suitability for the role.  The presence of women in the Iranian government isn’t
unprecedented. Mohammad Khatami, president from 1997-2005,
appointed a female vice-president for the first time. It was
under Ahmadinejad, who was president for eight years until
earlier this month, that Iran’s Islamic Republic got its first
female cabinet minister.  The president may appoint as many deputies as he wants to
perform his duties under the Islamic Republic’s  constitution ,
which doesn’t specify a cap on their numbers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  