-- Israel Frees 26 Palestinian Prisoners Hours Before Talks
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r   a n d   F a d w a   H o d a l i
-- 2013-08-14T13:55:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/israeli-bus-with-14-prisoners-for-release-heads-to-gaza-strip.html
Israeli authorities freed 26
Palestinian prisoners hours before the next round in Middle East
peace talks, satisfying a goal Palestinian leaders had sought to
get the U.S.-brokered negotiations moving.  The prisoners, most convicted of killing Israelis, were
delivered around 1:30 a.m. today by bus to border crossings into
the  West Bank  and  Gaza Strip  and released into Palestinian
territory. They received a hero’s welcome from Palestinian
Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas , who pledged not to rest until
“all prisoners are freed.”  “We congratulate ourselves, our people, our brothers who
were freed from the Israeli prisons to witness freedom today,”
Abbas said at his headquarters in the West Bank city of
 Ramallah , where thousands had gathered, some carrying
Palestinian flags and pictures of their loved ones. “We tell
them the rest are following you.”  Israeli and Palestinian representatives were scheduled to
hold peace negotiations in  Jerusalem  today with U.S. envoy
 Martin Indyk . The freed prisoners are the first among 104 that
Israel has agreed to release in return for a Palestinian
agreement to restart talks that were stalled for three years.  ‘Frank’ Discussion  Israel’s chief negotiator, Justice Minister  Tzipi Livni ,
said her country was entering into the talks with the goal of
“preserving its values as both a Jewish and democratic state,”
according to an e-mailed statement from her office.  As the two sides prepared to meet, U.S. Secretary of State
 John Kerry  yesterday said he spoke with Israeli Prime Minister
 Benjamin Netanyahu  about settlements in occupied territories.
The last round of peace talks stalled in 2010 when Netanyahu
declined to extend a settlement moratorium.  Kerry said he and Netanyahu talked about Israel’s plan to
build almost 1,200 homes in Jewish settlements in the West Bank
and east Jerusalem that brought criticism from Palestinian
leaders.  “We had a very frank and open, direct discussion about
this question of settlements,” Kerry told reporters in Brasilia
during a visit to  Brazil ’s capital. The new building plans are
for areas that “many people have the perception” will be part
of Israel after a negotiated treaty setting boundaries for a
Palestinian state, Kerry said.  Peace Potential  Netanyahu “has specifically agreed not to disturb what
could be the potential for peace going forward,” Kerry said
during a joint news conference with Brazilian Foreign Minister
Antonio Patriota. “We still believe it would be better not to
be doing it, but there are realities within life in Israel that
also have to be taken into account.”  Abbas “understood that coming into these talks,” Kerry
said. The top U.S. diplomat also spoke to Abbas about the  peace
process , the official Palestinian  news agency , Wafa, reported.  “The U.S. has informed us that it will exert all the
necessary pressure on Israel in order to not expand
settlements,” Palestinian official Yasser Abed Rabbo said today
of Voice of  Palestine  radio.  While the prisoner release was a gesture intended to help
revive talks, Israel complicated the U.S.-led talks by
announcing the plans for settlement construction.  War Crime  Palestinians say Israeli construction in the West Bank and
east Jerusalem is a war crime that violates the Fourth Geneva
Convention. Israel says the settlements don’t fall under the
convention because the territory wasn’t recognized as belonging
to anyone before the 1967 war, in which  Israel  prevailed against
Arab forces, and therefore isn’t occupied.  Israeli Housing Minister Uri Ariel said Aug. 11 that the
government would solicit bids for construction projects in the
two territories, which the Palestinians see as the core of a
future state. “No country in the world takes orders from other
countries about where it can and cannot build,” Ariel said.  Israeli Finance Minister Yair Lapid said the construction
plans were “unhelpful” to peace efforts, highlighting the
divisions in Netanyahu’s coalition over the issue.  Palestinians perceive the new settlement construction as a
sign of bad faith. “By announcing new bids every day and every
week, Israel is out to destroy the negotiations before they
start and destroy the principle of the two-state solution,”
chief Palestinian negotiator Saeb Erekat said.  1967 War  Israel captured east Jerusalem and the West Bank from the
Jordanians in the 1967 war, then annexed east Jerusalem in a
move that’s not internationally recognized. The U.S.,  United
Nations  and European Union consider settlement construction an
obstacle to peace, and the Palestinians refused for three years
to negotiate while the building went on.  Abbas scored a domestic victory in the run-up to the new
round of by securing the release of some of the thousands of
prisoners Israel holds. Because many Palestinian families have
had a relative in an Israeli prison at some point, the release
of inmates is a priority for Palestinian leaders. The 104
inmates are to be released in four rounds.  Most of the freed Palestinians had been held for at least
20 years. The Israeli High Court yesterday dismissed a petition
by relatives of their victims to block the release.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
Fadwa Hodali in Jerusalem at 
 fhodali@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  