-- Israeli Drones Over Brazil’s Stadiums Help Elbit Sales
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2013-08-14T07:18:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/israeli-drones-over-brazil-s-sports-arenas-to-boost-elbit-profit.html
(Corrects Boeing role in project in 10th paragraph).  Israel’s  Elbit Systems Ltd. (ESLT) , whose
drones already provide crowd surveillance above Brazil’s soccer
stadiums, is seeking a sales boost as the South American country
bolsters security for the 2014  World Cup  and 2016  Olympic Games .  “The intelligence-gathering electronic and optics
technologies of Elbit and our Brazilian partners are perfectly
suited for the  homeland security  challenges at these events,”
Chief Executive Officer Bezhalel Machlis said in an interview.  Increasing demand from Latin America, South Korea and
Australia is spurring earnings at Elbit even as defense budgets
shrink in the key North American market, with second-quarter net
income surging 30 percent to $50 million, it said earlier today.  In Brazil, the need to guarantee security during the
world’s two biggest sporting events has been given fresh impetus
after the Confederations Cup soccer tournament in June prompted
record numbers of people to take to the streets in protest at a
range of issues including spending on state-of-the-art stadiums.  Haifa-based Elbit closed 3.7 percent higher at 162.80
shekels in Tel Aviv, its biggest gain since April 10, giving a
market value of $1.86 billion. The stock was the best performer
on Israel’s benchmark TA-25 Index.  Elbit’s earnings advance stems from a strategic decision to
focus on electronic, optic and cyber-defense technologies as
governments scale back big-ticket military platforms such as
tanks and artillery, Machlis said in Tel Aviv.  Independent  In some cases, Elbit is even benefiting from defense cuts,
with demand gaining for combat-simulation programs that make it
possible to train troops without using live ammunition, he said.  In Brazil, Elbit has a joint venture with  Embraer SA (EMBR3) 
through the Israeli company’s AEL Sistemas subsidiary, and the
 air force  already uses its Hermes 450 drones.  Elbit said this month its Australian subsidiary had won a
$32 million deal to supply police with an intelligence system,
while among more traditional defense activities, it aims to win
work on a future Korean attack helicopter and combat aircraft
programs, Machlis, 50, said on a conference call today.  While Elbit often joins with other companies on projects
such as an aircraft-defense system developed by the company and
marketed together with  Boeing Co. (BA) , Machlis, who succeeded
veteran CEO Joseph Ackerman in April, said it plans to remain
independent and that any merger would probably face hurdles
given its key defense role.  Israel ’s other major defense businesses, including Israel
Aerospace Industries Ltd., Israel Military Industries Ltd. and
Rafael Advanced Defense Systems Ltd., are government owned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  