-- Italian, Spanish Spread Over Bunds Shrinks to Least in Two Years
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2013-08-13T15:41:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/italian-german-spread-narrows-to-two-year-low-amid-growth-signs.html
Italy’s and  Spain ’s 10-year yield
premium over benchmark German bunds shrank to the least in two
years on speculation the euro-area economy is edging back to
growth as recession in the two nations ease.  Reducing borrowing costs has been a priority for Italy and
Spain after concern that the two nations would struggle to curb
their debts pushed yields toward levels that led Greece, Ireland
and Portugal to ask for international aid. Recessions in Italy
and Spain eased last quarter, while analysts predict a euro-area
report tomorrow will show gross domestic product in the region
expanded for the first time since 2011.  “We’ve had pretty good data from  Europe ,” said Owen Callan, an analyst at  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  in Dublin. “Italian and
Spanish GDP was better, the general macro picture has improved.
Periphery  government bonds  are performing well,” he said,
referring to the securities of Europe’s high debt and deficit
nations.  Italy’s  10-year yield  rose seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 4.23 percent at 4:37 p.m. London time,
while benchmark German rates climbed 11 basis points to 1.81
percent, narrowing the difference between the two to 242 basis
points. It touched 237 basis points, the least since July 22,
2011. The spread widened to a euro-era record of 575 basis
points on Nov. 9, 2011.  Spain’s yield gap over  Germany  slid nine basis points to
269 basis points after reaching 265 basis points, the tightest
since Aug. 16, 2011. It surged to 650 basis points in July last
year on speculation the debts of the nation’s banks and regions
would prompt the country to seek a bailout.  Record Yield  Ten-year Italian yields surged to a record 7.48 percent in
November 2011 as Europe’s debt crisis led to the resignation of
former Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi . The yield fell more
than two percentage points last year as his successor,  Mario Monti , imposed austerity measures and European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  pledged to do what was needed to preserve
the euro. While current premier Enrico Letta relaxed some
austerity, he has also focused on reducing the spread.  “It’s the demonstration that Italy is a country that can
be trusted once more,” Letta said of improvements in the yield
difference at an Aug. 9 press conference in Rome. “The trust
that Italy has reacquired from markets must push us, not to stop
and enjoy this trust and rest easy.”  The yield difference narrowed this year even after
Berlusconi was convicted of  tax fraud , creating tensions in
Letta’s coalition government. Berlusconi’s party has rallied
around its leader, possibly seeking a presidential pardon and
threatening a mass resignation of deputies in parliament.  Italian GDP  Italian gross domestic product fell 0.2 percent in the
three months through June, the smallest quarterly contraction
since 2011, as business and  consumer confidence  registered
gains. Spain’s  GDP (EUGNEMUQ)  fell 0.1 percent in the same period, after
dropping 0.5 percent in the first quarter, the Madrid-based
National Statistics Institute said on July 30.  Euro-area GDP increased 0.2 percent in the second quarter,
snapping six quarters of contraction, according to a Bloomberg
News survey before the report tomorrow.  Italian government bonds earned 4.4 percent this year
through yesterday, according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes.
Spain’s returned 7.3 percent, while German securities dropped
1.4 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nicholas Reynolds at 
 nreynolds2@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  