-- Live Nation Said Replacing Ticketmaster Chief Nathan Hubbard
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-08-13T21:18:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/live-nation-said-to-replace-ticketmaster-chief-nathan-hubbard.html
Live Nation Entertainment Inc. (LYV) , the
world’s largest concert promoter, is replacing the head of its
Ticketmaster division in the middle of an overhaul of the unit’s
online service, a person with knowledge of the matter said.  Jared Smith, Live Nation’s president of North America, will
assume oversight of the business, said the person, who asked not
to be named because the change hasn’t been announced. Nathan Hubbard, Ticketmaster’s president since 2010, will leave, the
person said. An announcement is planned for next week, according
to the person.  Live Nation, based in Beverly Hills, California, is in the
middle of a $75 million overhaul of Ticketmaster’s online
technology to make the service easier to use for consumers and
venue owners. The improvements are part of an effort to boost
operating income by 35 percent over three years ending in 2015
and should be complete on time next year, Chief Executive
Officer Michael Rapino said on a  conference call  last week.  The company plans to seek a new Ticketmaster chief with a
software and engineering background, the person said. Hubbard is
a former recording artist who graduated from  Princeton
University  and has a master’s degree in business administration
from  Stanford University , according to a company profile.  Hubbard  didn’t respond to a voicemail message on his mobile
phone. The Wall Street Journal reported yesterday he would be
leaving. Ticketing accounted for about 23 percent of the
company’s $5.82 billion in sales last year.  Live Nation gained 0.4 percent to $18.19 at the close in
New York. The stock has almost doubled this year.  John Malone ’s
 Liberty Media Corp. (LMCA)  is the company’s largest shareholder, with a
26 percent  stake , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  