-- K+S Says New Mine Proceeding Even Amid ‘Incomprehensible’ Prices
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-08-13T06:13:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/k-s-says-new-mine-proceeding-even-amid-incomprehensible-prices.html
K+S AG (SDF) , Europe’s biggest potash
producer, said its new Legacy mine in  Canada  is proceeding on
schedule even as potash prices become “incomprehensible.”  “We see no reason to call this forward-looking project
into question because of mere speculation,” Chief Executive
Officer Norbert Steiner said today in a  video  on the Kassel,
Germany-based company’s website. “We have seen phases of market
disruption in the past and we know how to deal with them.”  K+S abandoned its full-year forecast for sales and earnings
growth a week ago after Russian competitor OAO Uralkali pulled
out of a trade cartel for the crop nutrient, causing the German
company’s stock price to slump 30 percent since the end of July.
Several small potash deals struck early this month indicated a
price drop of about $50 per ton, Jeremy Redenius, an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein, said in a report on Aug. 9. That compares
with $400 a ton for previous shipments by the cartel to  China .  Second-quarter earnings before interest, tax and some
hedging transactions, which K+S calls EBIT1, dropped 26 percent
to 162.6 million euros ($216.4 million), the company said today.
Profit missed an average analyst estimate of 175.2 million
euros. Sales fell 12 percent to 874.5 million euros, also
missing a 918.3 million-euro estimate.  In contrast to competitors exclusively focused on potash,
K+S has a “second pillar” in the form of its salt business,
Steiner said today. K+S generated about 38 percent of revenue
from the salt unit last year.  The company is sticking to plans for about 375 million
euros in investments this year at the Legacy mine in
Saskatchewan, K+S said. The German potash producer also said the
mineral composition at mines in its home country are the only
ones in the world that contain magnesium and sulfur in addition
to potassium. The specialized fertilizer it derives from that
make-up are only affected to a limited extent to volume
competition from standardized products.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  