-- Heebner Buys Ford, Tesla; Sells BlackRock, Toll Brothers
-- B y   K a t i e   B r e n n a n
-- 2013-08-13T16:36:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/kenneth-heebner-buys-ford-tesla-sells-blackrock-toll-brothers.html
Kenneth Heebner, who ranked as
America’s No. 1 stock picker before the financial crisis snapped
his winning streak, took new positions in  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and
Tesla Motors Inc. during the second quarter, while selling
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and  Toll Brothers Inc. (TOL)   Heebner’s Capital Growth Management LP purchased 9.82
million shares of Ford, according to a filing with the
Securities and Exchange Commission released today. The firm sold
$89.4 million of BlackRock shares and $21.6 million of Toll
Brothers, in the three months ended June 30.  Heebner’s  CGM Focus Fund (CGMFX)  topped all diversified U.S. stock
mutual funds in the decade through 2007. Tumbling commodity
prices and a weakening global economy in the second half of 2008
snapped the manager’s streak, as his expectation of a quick
recovery failed him. Customers bailed out of the Boston-based
fund as it lost an annual 5.1 percent in the past five years,
sending its assets plunging to $1.5 billion at the end of
October from the June 2008 peak of $10.3 billion, the data show.  The fund has  returned  23 percent this year, beating 88
percent of its peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Capital Growth sold shares of Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
closed its position in JPMorgan Chase & Co. during the quarter,
reducing its exposure to financial stocks by 6.2 percent.
Citigroup Inc. and Morgan Stanley made up the fund’s largest
holdings. The money manager increased his proportion of equity
investments in companies that rely on consumer discretionary
spending by 14.4 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Heebner bought 215,000 shares in Tesla, the electric-car
company led by Elon Musk. The stock almost  tripled  in the second
quarter. He also bought shares of Gap Inc., Home Depot Inc. and
Cisco Systems Inc.  In February, Heebner said a rebound in home prices will
lift consumer confidence, leading to a stronger-than-anticipated
U.S. economy over the next few years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Brennan in  New York  at 
 kbrennan23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  