-- Kerry Has ‘Frank’ Talk With Netanyahu on Settlements
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r   a n d   A n n a   E d g e r t o n
-- 2013-08-13T20:02:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/kerry-has-frank-talk-with-netanyahu-on-settlements.html
U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry 
said he had a “very frank” talk today with  Israel ’s Prime
Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  about settlements in occupied
territories, as prison officials began the process of releasing
26 Palestinian prisoners.  The Israeli Prisons Service said a bus left Ayalon Prison
tonight carrying 14 prisoners to the Gaza Strip for release. A
second bus departed, taking 12 prisoners to the West Bank, the
prison service said in a statement without saying at what hour
they would be set free.  A day before Israeli and Palestinian negotiators are
scheduled to resume peace talks, Kerry said he spoke with
Netanyahu about construction plans in the West Bank and east
 Jerusalem  that brought criticism from Palestinian leaders.  “We had a very frank and open, direct discussion about
this question of settlements,” Kerry told reporters in Brasilia
during a visit to  Brazil ’s capital. The new building plans are
for areas that “many people have the perception” will be part
of Israel after a negotiated treaty setting boundaries for a
Palestinian state, Kerry said.  Netanyahu “has specifically agreed not to disturb what
could be the potential for peace going forward,” Kerry said at
a joint news conference with Brazilian Foreign Minister Antonio Patriota. “We still believe it would be better not to be doing
it, but there are realities within life in Israel that also have
to be taken into account.”  Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  “understood
that coming into these talks,” Kerry said. The top U.S.
diplomat also spoke to Abbas about the peace process, according
to the official Palestinian  news agency , Wafa.  Prisoner Concession  Israel announced on Aug. 11 plans to build almost 1,200
homes in Jewish settlements. The last round of peace talks
stalled in 2010 when Netanyahu declined to extend a settlement
moratorium.  Release of the prisoners was a concession that Palestinians
sought to get peace talks moving, and those being moved tonight
are the first among 104 prisoners Israel agreed to set free.  Israel’s highest court upheld the government’s decision to
release the prisoners, most of whom were convicted of murder and
held for at least 20 years. Relatives of people killed by the
prisoners had asked the court to block the release.  While the prisoner release was a gesture intended to help
revive talks after a three-year impasse, Israel complicated the
U.S.-led negotiations by announcing plans for settlement
construction.  “We oppose settlements taking place at any time, not just
the time of the peace process,” Kerry said during his trip to
Brazil.  Occupation Dispute  Palestinians say Israeli construction in the battle-won
 West Bank  and east Jerusalem is a war crime that violates the
Fourth Geneva Convention. Israel says the settlements don’t fall
under the convention because the territory wasn’t recognized as
belonging to anyone before the 1967 war, in which Israel
prevailed, and therefore isn’t occupied.  Housing Minister Uri Ariel announced on Aug. 11 that the
government would solicit bids for construction projects in the
two territories, which the Palestinians see as the core of a
future state. “No country in the world takes orders from other
countries about where it can and cannot build,” Ariel said.  Israeli Finance Minister Yair Lapid said the settlement
construction plans were “unhelpful” to peace efforts,
highlighting the divisions in Netanyahu’s coalition over the
issue.  Jerusalem Homes  In addition to the plans announced by Ariel, officials have
authorized building 900 homes in an east Jerusalem area close to
the West Bank town of Beit Jala, Israel’s Channel 10 television
news reported late yesterday. Netanyahu’s office issued a
statement in response, saying the apartments were still in the
planning stage and previous Israeli administrations have built
housing in the same area.  “It’s understood that in any future arrangement, this area
is going to remain part of Israel,” according to the statement,
which cited the prisoner release as proof of the government’s
“serious intentions” and commitment to the  peace process .  Palestinians perceive the new settlement construction as a
sign of bad faith. “By announcing new bids every day and every
week, Israel is out to destroy the negotiations before they
start and destroy the principle of the two-state solution,”
chief Palestinian negotiator Saeb Erekat said.  Captured Land  Israel captured east Jerusalem and the West Bank from the
Jordanians in the 1967 Middle East war, then annexed east
Jerusalem in a move that is not internationally recognized. The
U.S.,  United Nations  and European Union consider settlement
construction an obstacle to peacemaking, and the Palestinians
had refused for three years to negotiate while the construction
went on.  Abbas scored a domestic victory in the run-up to the talks
by securing the release of some of the thousands of prisoners
Israel holds. Because many Palestinian families have had a
relative in an Israeli prison at some point, the release of
inmates is a priority for Palestinian leaders. The 104 inmates
are to be released in four rounds.  The Palestinian president was planning an overnight
celebration for the first prisoners returning to homes in the
West Bank at his Ramallah headquarters, Palestinian Prisoner
Affairs Minister Issa Qaraqa said. Some of the prisoners will go
to the Hamas-ruled  Gaza Strip  after they are freed.  The planned release ignited two days of protests by
victims’ relatives outside the  Defense Ministry  in  Tel Aviv . Of
the 26 to be freed, 21 were convicted of homicide, with the rest
imprisoned on charges of attempted murder or kidnapping,
according to the list.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Edgerton in Brasilia at 
 aedgerton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  