-- Korean Won Falls for a Second Day on Fed Concerns; Bonds Decline
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-08-13T06:36:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/korean-won-falls-most-in-almost-two-weeks-on-fed-bonds-decline.html
South Korea ’s won fell for a second
day on speculation U.S. data will strengthen the case for the
 Federal Reserve  to taper stimulus that has fueled demand for
emerging-market assets.  Government bonds  declined.  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index rose before a report today
that economists forecast will show retail sales in the world’s
largest economy climbed for a fourth month. The data comes after
at least four Fed officials signaled last week a willingness to
begin paring the central bank’s monthly bond buying as early as
September. Overseas investors sold $261 million more South
Korean stocks than they bought this month through yesterday,
exchange data show.  “Expectations of stronger U.S. data added to speculation
that the Fed’s tapering will begin next month,” said Park Jung
Hyun, a currency trader at Hana Bank in  Seoul . “The won’s fall
was limited as exporters, probably the shipbuilders, sold
dollars.”  The won weakened 0.1 percent to close at 1,115.08 per
dollar in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
currency earlier declined as much as 0.4 percent, the most since
July 31. One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected
moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options, rose 46 basis
points, or 0.46 percentage point, to 7.06 percent.  South Korea’s unemployment rate held at 3.2 percent in
July, according to all but one of 13 estimates in a Bloomberg
survey before data tomorrow. One forecast 3.1 percent, which
would match an April level that was the lowest this year.  The yield on the 2.75 percent sovereign bonds due June 2016
climbed two basis points to 2.92 percent, snapping a three-day
decline, according to Korea Exchange Inc. prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  