-- KPN Foundation Concerned America Movil Intentions Unclear
-- B y   M a r t i j n   v a n   d e r   S t a r r e
-- 2013-08-14T07:41:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/kpn-foundation-expresses-concern-over-america-movil-takeover-bid.html
Royal KPN NV (KPN) ’s independent
foundation, which has the power to defend the Dutch carrier from
a takeover, said it’s concerned that  Carlos Slim ’s  America Movil
SAB (AMXL)  isn’t being clear about its $9.6 billion offer.  “There is considerable uncertainty about America Movil’s
intentions,” the group said yesterday in a statement. In
particular, America Movil needs to tell KPN investors sooner
whether it favors the sale of KPN’s German business E-Plus to
 Telefonica SA (TEF) , the foundation said.  The foundation can invoke an option to acquire voting stock
if its board sees a threat to KPN, though it said it’s not
currently considering such a move. If it did, America Movil
would need the support of every other KPN shareholder to gain
majority control, since the Class B voting stock can’t exceed
the total issue of ordinary shares, minus one share.  America Movil is offering 2.40 euros a share to boost its
30 percent stake in KPN to more than 50 percent. Slim, which
also owns a stake in  Telekom Austria AG (TKA) , aims to use The Hague-based KPN to expand beyond Latin America, where America Movil is
the biggest mobile-phone company.  KPN fell 2.3 percent to 2.28 euros at 9:07 a.m. in
Amsterdam. The stock hasn’t traded above 2.4 euros since America
Movil said Aug. 9 it would make an official takeover bid next
month. America Movil added 0.2 percent to 13.21 pesos yesterday
in Mexico City.  Since IPO  The foundation has existed since the Dutch government first
sold shares in KPN in 1994. On its  board  are Chairman Jacques Schraven, Vice Chairman Pieter Bouw, Hans Zwarts, Jan Klaassen
and Peter Wakkie. The group is charged with defending KPN “from
the influences that may threaten the continuity, independence
and identity” of the company, filings showed.  The filings say the  foundation’s  policy is to only exercise
its voting rights for a limited period to give it time to
determine its position on pivotal decisions for the company.
Last year, America Movil’s 8 euro-per-share bid to increase its
stake in KPN didn’t trigger an official statement from the
foundation.  “Exercising the call option currently isn’t on the
table,” Walter Samuels, a spokesman for the foundation, said in
a phone interview. “But it’s good there’s awareness of the
foundation’s right to exercise the option.”  E-Plus Sale  Stefan Simons, a KPN spokesman, declined to comment, as did
representatives for America Movil and Telefonica.  Slim’s offer came weeks after KPN agreed to a separate 8.1
billion-euro ($10.7 billion) deal to sell its German unit to
Telefonica. Mexico City-based America Movil hasn’t decided on
whether to support the Telefonica deal.  “Obviously, America Movil has the right to think about its
position, but it has to provide KPN, its staff and its
shareholders clarity in a timely fashion,” not just shortly
before or during the investor vote on the Telefonica deal,
Samuels said.  The foundation’s position may put pressure on Slim to raise
his bid. Moody’s Investors Service, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings have already said they may lower America Movil’s debt
rating depending on the outcome of the transaction.  America Movil has financing plans to complete the KPN offer
without a credit-rating downgrade even if every shareholder
accepts its offer, Chief Financial Officer Carlos Garcia-Moreno
said this week in an interview.  Seeking Leverage  Slim moved on KPN while seeking leverage to get a higher
price for E-Plus or to block the deal, two people familiar with
the billionaire’s plans said, asking not to be identified as the
discussions are confidential. The next step may be renegotiating
the terms with Telefonica, one of the people said.  “America Movil has the right to make an offer for KPN,”
Samuels said. “But it has come to the foundation’s attention
that the announcement of the bid hasn’t been made in
collaboration with KPN. This is of extra concern to the
foundation, as it has to safeguard KPN’s, its staff’s,
shareholders’ and customers’ interests.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martijn van der Starre in Amsterdam at 
 vanderstarre@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  