-- N.Y.’s East Hampton Gets Credit Rating Raised by Moody’s
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2013-08-13T20:21:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/n-y-s-east-hampton-gets-credit-rating-raised-by-moody-s-1-.html
East Hampton, the  New York  beach
town where billionaire  Ronald Perelman  and fashion designer
 Calvin Klein  own homes, had its  credit rating  raised one level
by Moody’s Investors Service.  The company lifted the Long Island town’s grade to Aa3,
fourth highest, on about $115 million in debt. It cited improved
finances over the last three years and “strong wealth and
income levels.” The town of more than 21,000 residents on Long
Island’s southern shore is about 100 miles (160 kilometers) east
of  Manhattan .  “The stable outlook reflects our view that the town’s
financial position will continue to stabilize given strong
budgeting and formal policies to maintain ample reserves,”
Moody’s said in a statement.  East Hampton is expected to sell about $2 million in
general-obligation bonds as soon as Aug. 19.  East Hampton ’s improving finances are heading in the
opposite direction of its home county of Suffolk, which was
downgraded in May to A2, five grades below top-rated debt. The
move came after the county failed to meet fiscal 2012 year-end
budget estimates and planned to use one-time revenue to balance
its 2013 spending plan.  Three years ago, when William Wilkinson took office as
supervisor, East Hampton had a $27 million deficit, the 63-year-old Republican said by phone. Wilkinson, the former head of
human resources for Walt Disney Co., said he cut the town
departments to 13 from 26, lowered the workforce by more than
100 positions through voluntary leave and attrition, and
renegotiated labor contracts.  “When I came into office, I was under a lot of pressure to
look at bankruptcy and other options,” Wilkinson said. “We
brought this thing back from death.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  