-- Napolitano Rebuffs Calls to Spare Berlusconi His Punishment
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-08-14T11:51:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/napolitano-rebuffs-requests-to-spare-berlusconi-his-punishment.html
Italian President Giorgio Napolitano
rebuffed lawmaker requests to spare former Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  from his punishment for tax fraud and said court
verdicts must be respected.  “Any definitive sentence, and the subsequent requirement
to apply it, must be accepted,” Napolitano said late yesterday
in an e-mailed statement. “That goes for the case at the center
of attention today as with every other one.”  The statement by the 88-year-old head of state ran beyond
jurisprudence and into the sphere of politics, where
Berlusconi’s legal troubles have caused turmoil for the
government of Prime Minister Enrico Letta. Napolitano urged the
forces in Letta’s parliamentary alliance, including Berlusconi’s
People of Liberty party, to maintain their support and cooperate
to “get beyond this difficult moment.”  Berlusconi, a billionaire, is considering asking Napolitano
to grant a pardon and will continue to fight against attempts to
curtail his political activity, Franco Coppi, a lawyer for the
former premier, said in an interview. Five Star Movement Founder
Beppe Grillo, head of the biggest opposition party in
parliament, said Napolitano was too lenient with Berlusconi and
called on the president to resign.  Napolitano’s statement “should be considered and
appreciated positively for its ability to frame, let’s call it
the Berlusconi problem, in a more general political
perspective,” Coppi said in a phone interview.  Head of State  The head of state was asked to intervene after an Aug. 1
ruling by  Italy ’s top court exhausted Berlusconi’s appeals and
made his conviction for  tax fraud  definitive. Lawmakers from
People of Liberty, or PDL, threatened to resign in protest over
the verdict and called on Napolitano to grant a pardon.  A formal pardon request hasn’t been filed with the
president, Napolitano said yesterday. If one were submitted,
Napolitano said he would undertake “an objective and rigorous
exam,” in line with normal procedure.  The PDL is the second-biggest component in Letta’s
makeshift coalition of rival parties. The coalition’s largest
force, Letta’s Democratic Party, welcomed Napolitano’s comments.
Democratic Party General Secretary Guglielmo Epifani said in an
e-mailed statement that the president made “a necessary
declaration, given all the unwarranted pressure.”  “I am naturally aware of the risks that can arise from
political tensions,” Napolitano said. “A crisis for the
government, formed with great effort little more than 100 days
ago, would be fatal.”  Traditional Parties  The PDL and the  Democratic Party , or PD, agreed to
cooperate after elections in February failed to give any single
force a clear path to a parliamentary majority. Grillo’s Five
Star won about a quarter of the votes in what was the party’s
first national election by promising to sweep the traditional
parties from parliament.  “A man condemned for tax fraud can’t be the president and
the prime minister’s interlocutor,” Grillo said on his website.
“If Berlusconi is saved, the institutions will die.”  Sentenced to four years in prison, Berlusconi, 76, is
unlikely to spend a day in jail, given Italy’s efforts to reduce
prison populations and the leniency traditionally accorded to
criminals over the age of 70. Ultimately, his penalty may
involve house arrest or community service.  Berlusconi is appealing criminal convictions in separate
cases for abuse of power, engaging a minor in prostitution and
illegal use of wiretaps. He has denied all wrongdoing, saying
his trials amount to political persecution.  Possible Expulsion  The PDL is seeking to soften the impact of the verdict on
Berlusconi’s political career. People sentenced to more than two
years in prison are  barred  from running in elections and serving
in parliament for at least six years, under a law passed in
December by ex-Premier  Mario Monti ’s administration.  “We will defend ourselves against this too,” Coppi said.  The tax-fraud conviction subjected Berlusconi, a senator
since March, to review by a parliamentary committee that may
result in his expulsion from the upper house. Berlusconi’s legal
case risks disrupting Letta’s sputtering effort to revive an
Italian economy showing signs of emerging from the longest
recession since World War II.  Letta’s alliance “has limited chances of survival beyond
the next couple of months,”  Riccardo Barbieri , chief European
economist at Mizuho International Plc in  London , wrote in an
Aug. 5 report. “If it does survive, this will be at the cost of
very low-profile policies.”  Investors so far aren’t focusing on the possibility of
renewed political turmoil. The premium that investors demand for
10-year Italian bonds compared with benchmark German bunds has
dropped to the lowest in two years on speculation the euro-area
economy is edging back to growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  