-- Nigerian Islamist Leader Vows Attacks as 56 People Killed
-- B y   G b e n g a   A k i n g b u l e
-- 2013-08-13T11:08:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/nigerian-suspected-islamists-kill-56-people-in-northern-state.html
At least 56 people died in two
attacks in the northeastern Nigerian state of Borno, as the
leader of the militant Islamist Boko Haram group vowed to
continue its fight against the country’s military.  At least 44 people were killed on Aug. 10 by gunmen wearing
military uniforms who attacked a mosque in Konduga, about 700
kilometers (435 miles) northeast of the capital, Abuja, Mohammed
Ibrahim, a resident who fled to neighboring Yobe state, said in
a phone interview. Ali Dalori, a lawmaker from Borno, confirmed
the attack, though he couldn’t provide details.  Another 12 people were shot dead at Ngom village near
Konduga on Aug. 11, Ibrahim said. “Some suspected Boko Haram
members, who were over 100 in number, invaded our villages
dressed in military uniforms before killing our people,” he
said.  Boko Haram, whose name means “Western education is a sin”
in the Hausa language, has killed thousands of people in gun and
bomb attacks since 2009 in the mainly Muslim north and Abuja, in
its campaign to establish an Islamic state in  Africa ’s largest
oil producer.  Nigeria ’s more than 160 million people are roughly
equally split between Christians, predominant in the south, and
Muslims.  ‘Kill More’  Abubakar Shekau, Boko Haram’s leader, yesterday claimed
responsibility for a series of attacks in Borno and Yobe states
and said the group planned further assaults. Its strength hasn’t
been dented, he said, three months after President  Goodluck Jonathan  declared emergency rule in the northeastern states of
Borno, Yobe and Adamawa, granting the armed forces sweeping
powers to quell the group’s activities.  “We have killed countless soldiers and we are going to
kill more,” Shekau said in an e-mailed video.  Nigerian troops began an air and ground offensive against
the militants on May 16, in a campaign that included bombing
their camps by planes two days after the emergency rule was
declared. Jonathan said the measure was necessary as the
insurgents had taken over parts of Borno state.  “A lot has been said against us: that we are finished,
they have finished with us. All these are lies,” Shekau said.
“We are alive. Nobody killed us, and we shall continue to kill
until Boko Haram is accepted by the people,” he said.  Calls to the joint military and police task force in Borno
and police officials in the state didn’t connect when Bloomberg
sought comment on the two latest attacks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gbenga Akingbule in Maiduguri at 
 gakingbule@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  