-- Norwegian Energy Slumps as Last Producing Field Shut: Oslo Mover
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2013-08-13T11:18:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/norwegian-energy-slumps-as-last-producing-field-shut-oslo-mover.html
Norwegian Energy Company ASA, a
 North Sea  oil producer, fell the most in more than six weeks
after a shutdown at its Huntington field left the company
without any producing deposits.  Shares in the Stavanger, Norway-based company, fell as much
as 8.8 percent, the most since  June 26 (NOR) , and declined 6.3 percent
to 2.99 kroner as of 1:17 p.m. local time. More than 3.3 million
shares have traded so far today,  three times  the three-month
average daily volume.  The Huntington field, located in the U.K. North Sea, was
shut after the Voyageur Spirit floating production, storage and
offloading vessel experienced problems with a cargo tank venting
system, Noreco said in a statement today. Output may be resumed
next week if revised operational procedures can improve the
venting system, according to Noreco.  “Noreco is now in the unfortunate situation that
production from all fields in which we have an interest have
been shut,” Chief Executive Officer Svein Arild Killingland
said in the statement. “We’re closely following the situation
and have offered our support to the respective operators to
ensure that production can resume as soon as possible.”  Noreco, which was seeking to raise production after earlier
delays at Huntington, saw production from the Oselvar field off
 Norway  halted August 9 after a gas compressor defect at the
nearby Ula field where output is processed. Production at the
Nini, Nini East and Cecilie fields was stopped in July because
of a shutdown at the Siri field.  The company “is very dependent on the Huntington cash flow
to prepare for its debt maturities the coming years,” analysts
at Pareto Securities AS said in a note to clients. While the
consequences should be limited if output resumes as planned, the
halt increases the risk of refinancing this year, Pareto said.  Noreco’s shares have declined 44 percent in the past 12
months, giving the company a market value of 1.1 billion kroner
($187.8 million).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Treloar in Oslo at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  