-- Novartis, Pfizer Said to Be Out of Bidding for Onyx
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a l l a m   a n d   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2013-08-13T20:05:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/novartis-is-said-to-be-out-of-bidding-for-onyx.html
Novartis AG (NOVN)  and  Pfizer (PFE)  Inc. won’t
bid for  Onyx Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ONXX) , the maker of cancer drugs,
leaving Amgen Inc. with only one possible rival bidder
remaining, according to people familiar with the situation.  Onyx’s current valuation makes it too expensive for
Novartis, said one of the people, who asked not to be identified
because the matter is private. Pfizer recently backed away from
making a bid and is no longer doing due diligence, said one of
the people. London-based AstraZeneca Plc is still doing due
diligence, that person said.  Novartis, AstraZeneca and New York-based Pfizer had
expressed interest in South San Francisco, California-based
Onyx, the maker of Kyprolis, a blood cancer drug approved last
year for some patients. Amgen upped its initial $120-a-share bid
to $130 a share last week, a person familiar with the matter
said then. If AstraZeneca doesn’t bid, Amgen, the world’s
biggest biotechnology company by sales, would have no
competition.  Novartis, based in Basel, Switzerland, still has people
doing due diligence at Onyx, one of the people said. None of the
other companies, including AstraZeneca, has made a bid to rival
 Thousand Oaks , California-based Amgen’s $130-a-share offer, the
person said.  Onyx is involved with several potential purchasers, Chief
Executive Officer N. Anthony Coles said Aug. 9.  Lori Melancon, a spokeswoman for Onyx, said the company
wouldn’t comment on rumors and speculation. Novartis spokesman
 Eric Althoff , Pfizer spokeswoman Joan Campion and AstraZeneca
spokeswoman Esra Erkal-Paler declined to comment.  Onyx declined less than 1 percent to $124.88 at the close
in New York, giving the company a market value of about
$9.16 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristen Hallam in London at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net ;
 David Welch  in New York at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  