-- Novartis to Review Business as Reinhardt Becomes Chairman
-- B y   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r
-- 2013-08-14T08:14:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/novartis-to-review-business-as-reinhardt-becomes-chairman.html
Novartis AG (NOVN)  will start a strategic
review of its units as early as next week and would consider a
$10 billion purchase among options for bolstering the business,
Chairman Joerg Reinhardt said.  “We will also start next week to look at our portfolio
based on strategic perspectives going forward,” Reinhardt, 57,
said in an interview at the company’s Basel,  Switzerland ,
headquarters yesterday. While smaller deals remain attractive,
“Novartis would be willing to invest significant money for a
very good opportunity. I don’t think a $10 billion acquisition
is out of reach.”  Reinhardt, who took over as chairman this month, is facing
investors’ calls to unwind key parts of the company his
predecessor  Daniel Vasella  built, including a  stake  in  Roche
Holding AG (RO) , Switzerland’s other major drug company, or to
jettison or revamp less profitable divisions such as the
vaccines business. The company will probably come to a decision
on its composition over the next few months, Reinhardt said.  “Novartis is a diversified business; it will continue to
be a diversified business,” Reinhardt said. “On the other
hand, I believe active  portfolio management  is part of the
strategic management of the company.”  CEO Contest  Reinhardt worked at Novartis for 28 years before joining
 Bayer AG (BAYN)  in 2010 to run the health-care business. He left
Novartis after losing the contest for chief executive officer to
 Joe Jimenez , the current CEO.  Reinhardt is also tasked with calming the waters after
Vasella’s salary and planned $78 million golden handshake caused
an outcry against excessive pay in Switzerland. The company last
month said it will cut Vasella’s compensation to at least $5.95
million for helping to transition to the new chairman, and a set
number of days coaching company executives during the next three
years.  “Beyond that, the interaction of the company with Dr.
Vasella will be limited,” Reinhardt said.  Novartis rose 0.7 percent to 68.85 Swiss francs at 9:55
a.m. in Zurich trading today. The stock has increased 23 percent
in the  past year  including reinvested dividends, compared with a
19 percent return for the Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical Index.  ‘All Options’  The Swiss company has five units: the Alcon eye-care
business, pharmaceuticals, vaccines and diagnostics, the Sandoz
generic-medicines division, and consumer health care, which
includes both over-the-counter medicines and animal-health
products. Novartis wants its businesses to be among the industry
leaders or will otherwise consider divesting them, Reinhardt
said.  In an Aug. 9 note to investors, Citigroup Inc. analyst
 Andrew Baum  said Reinhardt should consider “all strategic
options” for the vaccines unit which “has failed to deliver.”
The OTC business should be sold, and the animal-health division
needs “more aggressive management to compete with industry
leaders,” Baum said.  Novartis is out of the bidding for  Onyx Pharmaceuticals
Inc. (ONXX) , according to a person familiar with the situation. Onyx’s
current valuation made it too expensive, said the person, who
declined to be identified because the matter is private. Onyx
closed yesterday at $124.88, giving the South  San Francisco ,
California-based company a market value of $9.16 billion.  Onyx Suitors  Novartis was among drugmakers that had expressed interest
in Onyx, Bloomberg reported in July. Onyx is involved with
several potential purchasers, Chief Executive Officer N. Anthony Coles said Aug. 9. Lori Melancon, a spokeswoman for Onyx, said
the company wouldn’t comment on rumors and speculation. Novartis
spokesman  Eric Althoff  also declined to comment.  It makes sense to have the vaccines business in a separate
unit because of “idiosyncrasies” in production, distribution
and marketing, Reinhardt said.  “Obviously there are potential synergies in the backbone,
finance and other supportive functions,” Reinhardt said,
referring to the drug and vaccines units. “People are currently
looking at that, but it’s too early to quantify potential
synergies a combination would bring.”  Novartis will seek ways to expand the animal-health unit
“organically or inorganically” over the next few years,
Reinhardt said. The company may also consider entering into a
partnership to bolster the unit, and should the measures fail,
Novartis will exit the business, Reinhardt said.  Consumer Health  The consumer-health division, which sells the Excedrin pain
reliever and the Theraflu cough and cold treatment, returned to
growth in the first quarter after manufacturing woes at a U.S.
plant.  “From a long-term perspective, OTC is attractive,”
Reinhardt said. “However, again Novartis is not among the top
players and it will be necessary to strengthen that business
going forward, if we decide to stay in it.”  Building the OTC business will require more than one
acquisition, and so will take more time, he said.  “It will not happen overnight,” Reinhardt said.  Investors and analysts have also pushed the company to sell
its stake in Roche, an investment valued at about $10 billion.
The holding is a “financial investment with a strategic
touch,” and while there is “no hurry” make any changes, the
company will also look at its investments in the course of its
strategic review, Reinhardt said.  The chairman said he wants to “start a dialogue” with
investors to get their perspectives on the company.  “One of my priorities going forward it is to do active
stakeholder management,” Reinhardt said. “Beyond that, I
believe there’s no necessity to change the way business is being
conducted at Novartis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eva von Schaper in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kristen Hallam at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net  