-- Novartis Chairman Says $10 Billion Deal in Reach
-- B y   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r   a n d   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2013-08-13T17:22:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/novartis-chairman-says-10-billion-deal-in-reach.html
Novartis AG (NOVN)  Chairman Joerg Reinhardt
said a $10 billion purchase is possible as the drugmaker reviews
its business, including units focused on animal health and
vaccines.  “We will also start next week to look at our portfolio
based on strategic perspectives going forward,” Reinhardt said
in an interview at the company’s Basel, Switzerland,
headquarters today. Bolt-on deals are attractive, and “I don’t
think a $10 billion acquisition is out of reach.”  Novartis is out of the bidding for  Onyx Pharmaceuticals
Inc. (ONXX) , according to a person familiar with the situation. Onyx’s
current valuation made it too expensive, said the person, who
declined to be identified because the matter is private.  Novartis, AstraZeneca Plc and Pfizer Inc. had expressed
interest in Onyx, the biotechnology company said to have
rebuffed an initial offer from Amgen Inc., Bloomberg reported in
July. Onyx is involved with several potential purchasers, Chief
Executive Officer N. Anthony Coles said Aug. 9.  Lori Melancon, a spokeswoman for Onyx, said the company
wouldn’t comment on rumors and speculation. Novartis spokesman
 Eric Althoff  also declined to comment.  Onyx rose 0.5 percent to $126.55 at 12:35 p.m. in New York,
giving the company a market value of $9.29 billion.  Reviewing Businesses  Reinhardt, who took over as chairman this month, is facing
investors’ calls to unwind key parts of the company his
predecessor Daniel Vasella built, including a  stake  in  Roche
Holding AG (RO) , Switzerland’s other major drug company, or to
jettison or reform less profitable divisions such as the
vaccines business.  “Novartis is a diversified business; it will continue to
be a diversified business,” Reinhardt said. “On the other
hand, I believe active portfolio management is part of the
strategic management of the company.”  Novartis rose 0.7 percent, to close at 68.40 Swiss francs
in Zurich trading. The stock has increased 24 percent in the
 past year  including reinvested dividends, compared with a 20
percent return for the Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eva von Schaper in Basel at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net ;
David Welch in New York at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kristen Hallam at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net  