-- Lockhart Says QE Taper Possible at Next Three Meetings
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-08-13T19:15:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/lockhart-says-qe-taper-possible-at-any-of-next-three-meetings.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
President  Dennis Lockhart , who has backed the Fed’s $85 billion
in monthly bond purchases, said policy makers may start to slow
buying at any of their next few meetings amid “uneven
performance” by the economy.  “The first adjustments to asset purchases, when they
occur, should be the beginning of a process with steps that will
be determined as later information arrives and certainty about
the direction of the economy accumulates,” Lockhart, who
doesn’t vote on monetary policy this year, said today in a
speech in Atlanta. “A decision to proceed -- whether it is in
September, October, or December -- ought to be thought of as a
cautious first step.”  Fed regional bank officials last week indicated greater
willingness to reduce bond buying. Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans , who votes on policy this year, said he would not rule out
a move at the Sept. 17-18 meeting, while Cleveland Fed President
 Sandra Pianalto  said economic progress makes her “prepared to
scale back the monthly pace of asset purchases.” She doesn’t
vote on policy in 2013.  Lockhart told reporters after his speech that monthly data
on employment would be the most important factor he’ll weigh in
considering whether to favor a slowing of purchases next month.  “I wouldn’t rule out September at all,” he said. “I
certainly want to see whatever little indication we get in the
data between now and September.”  ‘Very Weak’  “Very weak employment numbers would be one” factor that
could avert tapering next month, along with “a sudden pickup in
disinflation indicators,” he said to reporters.  Treasury yields surged earlier this year as Fed officials
discussed the possibility of slowing purchases, suggesting that
“much of that response has already been priced in” to bond
prices from an initial tapering, Lockhart said.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased 0.4 percent to
1,695.48 at 3:13 p.m. in  New York , while the yield on 10-year
Treasuries rose 10 basis points, or 0.1 percentage point, to
2.72 percent.  Policy makers have pledged to press on with asset purchases
until the labor market has improved “substantially.” The
unprecedented  bond buying  has pumped up the central bank’s
balance sheet to $3.59 trillion.  “I will need to get comfortable that the employment
progress we’ve enjoyed is not stalling and that disinflation
pressures are not building,” Lockhart said to the Kiwanis Club
of Atlanta.  ‘Full Phase-Out’  “I don’t expect to have enough data to be sure of my
outlook” in September, he said. “For that reason, I don’t
think a decision that commits the Fed to a full phase-out of
asset purchases and lays out a precise, beginning-to-end path
for doing so would be advisable.”  Payrolls rose by 162,000 workers in July, the fewest in
four months, following a revised 188,000 increase in June, data
showed Aug. 2. The jobless rate dropped to a more than four-year
low of 7.4 percent from 7.6 percent.  Lockhart said he expects a pickup in U.S. economic growth
in the second half of the year and a further acceleration next
year.  “I expect consumer activity to strengthen, I expect
business investment to accelerate somewhat, and I expect the
rebound we have seen in the housing sector to continue,” he
said. “I expect the recent improvement in exports to last. And
I expect to see an easing of the public-sector spending drag at
the federal, state, and local levels.”  ‘Confidence Shock’  Still, another “fiscal confidence shock” is possible in
the second half of the year as Congress debates federal spending
levels, he said.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , at a June press conference,
said the Fed may start dialing down its unprecedented bond-buying program this year and end it in mid-2014 if the economy
achieves the sustainable growth the Fed has sought since the
recession ended in 2009.  The Fed has pledged to keep the main  interest rate  near
zero so long as the  unemployment rate  remains above 6.5 percent
and the forecast for inflation doesn’t exceed 2.5 percent over
one to two years.  A former Georgetown University professor, Lockhart, 66, has
led the Atlanta Fed since 2007. The Atlanta Fed district
includes  Alabama ,  Florida ,  Georgia , and portions of  Louisiana ,
 Mississippi , and  Tennessee .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  