-- Oil Industry Asks U.S. EPA to Limit 2014 Renewable Quotas
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-08-13T20:59:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/oil-industry-asks-u-s-epa-to-limit-2014-renewable-quotas.html
The  American Petroleum Institute 
asked the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency to reduce
requirements in 2014 for the use of renewable fuels, citing
limits on refiners to blend in greater volumes of ethanol.  The filing is the first by the Washington-based trade
group, which represents companies such as  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  that
produce and refine oil, and follows pressure to revise the
program from lawmakers, corn consumers and anti-hunger
advocates. While the EPA said last week it would cut the mandate
for ethanol next year, it didn’t specify what the reductions
would be or when they would be announced.  “EPA is sending the right signal for next year, but we
need the certainty now,” Bob Greco, director of API’s
downstream group, said in an interview. “What we need to do is
hold EPA’s feet to the fire.”  Under the Renewable Fuel Standard, passed by Congress in
2007, refiners such as Exxon Mobil must use a certain amount of
renewable fuels each year, with their contribution determined by
their share of the fuel market. The EPA and renewable-fuel
producers argue it both spurs production of domestic fuels and
cuts greenhouse-gas emissions.  10% Blend  Refiners complain that declining demand for gasoline means
that next year, under the current quota, they would be forced to
blend in more than 10 percent of ethanol, which they say isn’t
safe for all engines and lacks support from consumers. Lobbyists
for refiners such as  Valero Corp. (VLO)  have pressed Congress to scrap
the program altogether.  API asked the EPA to lower the quota so that ethanol use
wouldn’t be pushed to greater than 10 percent of total fuel use,
known as the “blendwall.”  “Unless EPA exercises its authority to waive the mandates,
the ultimate and unavoidable outcome of the RFS-imposed
‘blendwall’ will be significant increases in the cost of fuel
and substantial fuel supply shortages,” the refiners said in
their petition. The EPA has 90 days to respond.  Supporters of the program say this petition is just an
attempt by the oil industry to limit competition.  “It is time that  oil companies  and special interests stop
worrying about maintaining their monopolistic practices and
allow competition and choice in the marketplace,”  Tom Buis ,
chief executive officer of Growth Energy, a group that
represents ethanol producers, said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  