-- Oklahoma’s Challenge to Obama Health-Care Law to Proceed
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-08-13T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/oklahoma-s-challenge-to-obama-health-care-law-to-proceed.html
Oklahoma won court approval to
proceed with a federal lawsuit challenging tax aspects of
President  Barack Obama ’s 2010 health-care legislation.  U.S. District Judge Ronald A. White in Muskogee, Oklahoma,
yesterday denied the federal government’s request for complete
dismissal of a lawsuit first filed in 2011 over the Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act.  While White tossed claims that the act’s mandatory minimum-coverage provision exceeded Congress’ powers and that a related
Internal Revenue Service rule is unconstitutional as applied to
Oklahoma employees, he said the U.S. must defend three counts
arising from that same IRS rule.  “Oklahoma challenged implementation of the Affordable Care
Act after the IRS finalized a rule that would allow the federal
government to punish ‘large employers’ including local
government with millions of dollars of tax penalties in states
without health care exchanges, which is not allowed under the
health care law,” state Attorney General  Scott Pruitt  said in a
statement yesterday.  Allison W. Price, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Justice
Department, declined to comment immediately on the court’s
ruling.  The U.S. Supreme Court upheld the legislation last year as
a valid use of Congress’s tax powers.  Insurance Exchanges  The Obama health-care law called for the states to create
marketplace-type insurance exchanges, through which coverage
could be obtained from a variety of insurers.  It also contained a provision penalizing large employers
who don’t offer coverage to full-time workers and offering tax
credits to people who enroll in a health-care plan through an
exchange.  The federal government reserved the right to create an
exchange if a state didn’t do so.  Oklahoma  was one of those states. It also amended its own
constitution in 2010 to bar rules or laws compelling people to
participate in a health-care system.  IRS Regulation  While the Obama health-care law treats states differently,
depending on whether they establish an exchange or leave it up
to the U.S., the accompanying IRS regulation eliminates that
distinction. Oklahoma contends the regulation wasn’t authorized
by Congress.  White ruled that the state, as a large employer itself, has
standing to pursue two of the four IRS-related claims, and he
allowed another federal constitutional claim to proceed.  Oklahoma didn’t have standing to press a claim based on the
amendment to its own constitution as that right was granted to
individuals, not the state, the judge said. He also rejected the
state’s argument that the IRS rule didn’t apply to state
workers.  “Congress provided a choice for Oklahoma and other states
in implementation of the health care law and the IRS is
attempting to take that away,” Pruitt, the state’s attorney
general, said in his statement.  The case is State of Oklahoma v. Sebelius, 11-cv-00030,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Oklahoma (Muskogee).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  