-- Mol Banks on Iraq to Turn Production Drop as Downstream Improves
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-08-13T10:11:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/mol-banks-on-iraq-to-turn-production-drop-as-downstream-improves.html
Mol Nyrt.,  Hungary ’s largest
refiner, reported an improvement in its downstream unit in the
second quarter and said it was closer to production at an Iraqi
field that will help arrest the decline upstream.  Mol  posted  net income of 20 billion forint ($89 million) in
the three months to June, compared with 500 million forint a
year earlier and a 24.3 billion forint median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey. The downstream unit had earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of 42 billion
forint on a current cost of supplies basis, 1 billion forint
higher than in the first quarter of 2013, Mol said in a
 statement  to the Budapest Stock Exchange today.  Production at the Shaikan field in the Kurdistan region of
 Iraq  is “within closer reach” after approval from the local
government, which will help offset the decline of matured fields
elsewhere, Mol said. The company, which saw gas production fall
in Croatia and Hungary, yesterday announced the sale of a stake
in a mature field in  Russia .  “This time, upstream was the weakest link in a declining
crude-oil price environment and hit by a significant drop of gas
production in Hungary,” Peter Szentirmai, a Budapest-based
analyst at  KBC Groep NV (KBC) , wrote in an e-mailed report.  “On the
positive side, downstream operation shows the signs of
improvements despite gloomy refining macro environment.”  The shares rose as much as 1.8 percent and traded 0.1
percent lower at 16,290 forint by 11:10 a.m. in Budapest,
extending the drop this month to 3.6 percent. The benchmark BUX
stock index, in which Mol has the highest  weighting  at 31
percent, slid 0.1 percent, paring the advance in August to 0.7
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  