-- OMV Second-Quarter Profit Drops on Econgas Loss and Libya Unrest
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2013-08-13T07:16:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/omv-second-quarter-profit-drops-on-econgas-loss-and-libya-unrest.html
OMV AG (OMV) , central Europe’s biggest oil
company, said second-quarter profit dropped 29 percent as
production fell in Libya and its gas-trading unit lost money.  Net income, excluding the cost of revaluing inventories,
fell to 321 million euros ($427 million) from 455 million euros
a year earlier, the Vienna-based company said today in a
 statement . That compared with the 318 million-euro average
 estimate  of 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer Gerhard Roiss is shifting OMV’s
focus to exploration and production where he sees higher profits
in the long term. It’s investing in oil and gas finds  in the
Black Sea, North Sea, and the Kurdistan region of  Iraq , while
selling assets like gas stations in southeast Europe and
Austrian gas storage facilities.  Earnings before interest and taxes in its exploration and
production unit declined by 20 percent to 597 million euros in
the three months to June. Production fell 2.6 percent to 297,000
barrels of oil equivalent per day in the second quarter after
fields came to a standstill in Libya due to violent attacks on
the oil industry. Floods in  Austria  also curbed production, the
company said last month.  OMV’s gas and power unit swung to a loss of 30 million
euros, caused by its Econgas gas trading business. Econgas is
burdened by loss-making supply contracts, linked to oil prices,
which it is renegotiating with  Statoil ASA (STL)  and OAO Gazprom, it
said in the statement.  OMV also wrote down 55 million euros in the quarter because
the Nabucco pipeline project lost its bid to transport gas from
the Caspian Sea to central Europe. The demise of Nabucco means
OMV will concentrate more on finding its own gas, Roiss said
June 26.  OMV has risen 26 percent this year, making it one of the
best performers in the 27-company Bloomberg European Energy
Index, which has lost 4.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  