-- Hon Hai Beats Estimates as China Factories Cut Costs
-- B y   Y u - H u a y   S u n
-- 2013-08-14T05:54:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/hon-hai-profit-beats-estimates-on-better-production-efficiency.html
Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. (2317) , the
Taiwan-based assembler of Apple Inc.’s iPhones and iPads, posted
second-quarter profit that beat analyst estimates as it lowered
costs by building factories in inland China.  Net income rose 41 percent to NT$17 billion ($567 million)
from NT$12 billion a year earlier, according to a company
statement yesterday. The average of 14  analyst estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg was for profit of NT$15.5 billion.  Hon Hai sales have gained on stronger demand for non-Apple
products while the second half may see the release of new
versions of the iPad and iPhone. The company also has taken
advantage of a Chinese government policy to spur investment in
inland regions by boosting operations in western Sichuan and
central Henan provinces.  “The profit numbers reflect lower costs as its move of
plants to inland China has helped reduce labor costs,” said
Michael On, president of Beyond Asset Management Co. in Taipei.
“The second half should be better as  Apple (AAPL)  will introduce new
products.”  Apple will unveil a new iPhone at a Sept. 10 event,
according to a person familiar with the plans. New iPad models,
including one with a thinner body design and an iPad mini with a
high-resolution screen, will be unveiled later, two people said.  The updates will enable Apple to present a refreshed lineup
of its top-selling products to consumers ahead of the year-end
holiday shopping season. The iPhone and iPad accounted for
almost 70 percent of the company’s sales last quarter.  Revenue Gains  Hon Hai  shares  were unchanged at NT$79.10 as of the close
of trade in Taipei. The stock has dropped 11 percent this year,
trailing a 3.3 percent gain in the benchmark Taiex index.  Hon Hai revenue for the period rose 0.4 percent to NT$896
billion, the company said. The company, founded by billionaire
Chairman Terry Gou 39 years ago, doesn’t provide earnings
forecasts.  Third-quarter revenue may climb 14 percent to NT$995
billion, according to the average of 17 analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Second-quarter gross profit margin, a measure of sales less
earnings, narrowed to 5.8 percent in the second quarter from 6.1
percent a year earlier, the company said.  Profit Guarantee  Hon Hai’s board also approved $66.3 million in new
investments in  China , according to stock exchange statements
yesterday. The company will add to an existing investment in a
solar products maker and will set up two units that make
biodegradable plastic materials.  Gou told investors in June he can “guarantee” that profit
this year will climb, even as the company’s goal of 15 percent
annual revenue growth became “challenging.” Gou plans to spin
off businesses such as cables, connectors and nanotech to focus
on making and assembling smartphones, tablets, game consoles and
PCs.  Hon Hai also  supplies  Sony Corp., Hewlett Packard Co. and
 Acer Inc. (2353) , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Tokyo-based
Sony is releasing new smartphones and is preparing to put its
PlayStation 4 game console on sale before the end of the year.  Sales and earnings at Hon Hai benefit from Hong Kong-listed
contract phone manufacturer  FIH Mobile Ltd. (2038) , of which Hon Hai
owns about 70 percent, returning to profit. FIH, previously
called Foxconn International Holdings, said Aug. 12 it had a
profit of $17.7 million in the first half compared with a loss
of $226 million a year earlier.  Innolux Corp. (3481) , Hon Hai’s display-making affiliate, posted
second-quarter profit of NT$4.1 billion, it said Aug. 8, after a
NT$9.56 billion loss a year earlier.  Hon Hai is rated the equivalent of buy among 17 of the 29
analysts tracked by Bloomberg. Seven recommend investors hold
and five say sell.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yu-Huay Sun in Taipei at 
 ysun7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  