-- Hong Kong Lowers Storm Signal as Typhoon Closes on China
-- B y   S i m o n   L e e   a n d   E m m a   B i
-- 2013-08-14T07:39:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/hong-kong-delays-stock-market-open-as-severe-typhoon-approaches.html
Hong Kong lowered its storm warning
signal as Severe Typhoon Utor swept past the financial center
toward  China ’s coast.  The No. 8 storm signal, the third highest, was lowered to
No. 3, with Typhoon Utor expected to make landfall in China
shortly, the  Hong Kong Observatory  said at 2:53 p.m.  Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. (HSI)  scrapped trading,
airlines canceled flights and the government shut schools for
the first typhoon of the year to prompt the raising of the No. 8
signal. Retailers and restaurants in the Central business
district were closed, leaving tourists looking for food as they
paced outside shuttered jewelry and clothing stores.  “The typhoon has ruined our plans,” said Bonnie Chen, a
24-year-old administrator from China’s Guangzhou city on holiday
with her family. “We are here in Central to do some shopping
but most of the shops are closed and the streets are quiet.”  Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. said in a statement it
will reschedule its interim results to Aug. 15 from today
because of the storm. The average daily securities turnover for
the first seven months at the exchange was HK$65.7 billion ($8.5
billion).  “It’s like a ghost town, everything’s closed,”  Gavin Parry , managing director of Hong Kong-based brokerage Parry
International Trading Ltd., said by telephone. “It’s eerie in
that respect, given it’s such a populous place and usually it’s
hustle and bustle.”  Chinese Waves  The China Meteorological Administration said the storm will
probably make landfall in the western part of Guangdong between
noon and the evening. The government also said that there will
be heavy rains along the coast.  “Severe Typhoon Utor has weakened into a typhoon,”
according to the  Hong Kong observatory .  Typhoon Utor is forecast to move northwest or north-northwest at about 16 kilometers an hour toward the western
coast of Guangdong, the observatory said.  Hong Kong, situated off China’s southern coast, gets on
average about six tropical cyclones  annually , according to the
weather bureau. Severe Typhoon Vicente, the most serious storm
to hit Hong Kong since 1999, brought schools, banks and flights
to a halt last year as it felled trees and damaged a coal
conveyor belt.  Flights Delayed  Banks are closed to the public, according to the Hong Kong
Association of Banks. A total of 110 flights were canceled and
241 were delayed as of 12:00 p.m. local time, according to the
Hong Kong Airport Authority. There were no reports of flooding
or landslides, the government said in a statement.  “We can’t find a place to have breakfast or lunch, we are
starving,” said 12-year-old Charlie Zhang, who was on holiday
with his sister from China’s Shenzhen city. “All the shops are
closed, I feel frustrated. Our family in Shenzhen are enjoying
meals and watching TV at home.”  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293) , the city’s biggest carrier,
told passengers to defer non-essential travel.  Companies including Dah Chong Hong Holdings Ltd. and Citic
Pacific Ltd. canceled post-earnings press conferences scheduled
because of the weather.  Shun Tak Holdings Ltd.’s  TurboJET , which operates a ferry
service to Macau from Hong Kong, resumed sailings from 3 p.m.
local time. MTR Corp., the city’s subway and train operator,
said it will gradually increase services as the storm abates.  The government said 54 people took refuge at shelters and
six people have sought treatment at public hospitals. The
government received 21 reports of fallen trees.  About 177 workers who were trapped on an artificial island
last night were rescued, China’s official Xinhua News Agency
reported. The workers were building a bridge connecting  Hong
Kong  to neighboring Macau and Zhuhai.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Lee in Hong Kong at 
 slee936@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Bi in Hong Kong at 
 ebi4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  