-- Hong Kong Raises Storm Signal, May Delay Market Opening
-- B y   H w e e   A n n   T a n   a n d   J o s h u a   F e l l m a n
-- 2013-08-13T22:06:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/hong-kong-expects-to-raise-third-highest-storm-signal.html
Hong Kong  issued its third-highest
storm signal for the first time this year as Severe Typhoon Utor
sweeps past  China ’s financial center, possibly delaying the
opening of the city’s stock market today.  The  Hong Kong Observatory  raised the No. 8 Southeast Gale
or Storm Signal at 1:40 a.m. local time today, and expects it to
remain in force in the morning, according to a statement on its
 website .  According to its published rules,  Hong Kong Exchanges and
Clearing Ltd.  will cancel premarket trading today should signal
8 still be in force between 7 a.m. and 9 a.m., with the morning
trading session to begin at least two hours after the signal is
dropped. There will be no morning session if the warning is
lowered after 9 a.m. and no trading for the day if it’s still in
force after noon.  At 6 a.m., winds with sustained speeds as high as 108
kilometers (67 miles) per hour were measured in the previous
hour, the observatory said. Utor was centered about 280
kilometers south-southwest of Hong Kong and is forecast to move
northwest at about 16 kilometers per hour toward the western
coast of China’s Guangdong province, the observatory said.  The storm will pass about 250 kilometers southwest of Hong
Kong during the day, the weather bureau said.  Last year, Severe Typhoon Vicente, the most serious storm
to hit Hong Kong since 1999, brought schools, banks and flights
to a halt as it felled trees throughout the city and damaged a
coal conveyor belt. Hong Kong gets on average about six tropical
cyclones  annually , according to the weather bureau.  Flight Cancellations  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293) ,  Asia ’s biggest international
carrier, canceled 15 flights and delayed six today because of
the storm, and its Dragonair regional unit canceled 16 services,
according to e-mailed press releases last night.  All morning and full-day schools have been suspended, the
government said in a press release.  The Hong Kong-Macau Ferry Terminal and China Ferry Terminal
have closed temporarily because of the storm signal, the city
government said press releases. Most New World First Bus and
Citybus routes have been suspended until further notice,
government broadcaster RTHK  said  on its website.  One woman has been admitted to a hospital and is in stable
condition, the government said in a press release, without
giving the nature of her injuries. Three trees have fallen and
there are no reports of flooding or landslides, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hwee Ann Tan in Hong Kong at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Fellman in  New York  at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  