-- How Dumplings Turned Into Tortellini Along the Silk Road
-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 2013-08-13T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/how-dumplings-turned-into-tortellini-along-the-silk-road.html
Rhubarb originated in  China , and
Marco Polo prized the plant enough to list it in his will.
Uzbeks wash their infants’ hair with basil to make it thicker.
Italians in Modena like to drizzle 25-year-old balsamic vinegar
on their gelato.  Readers will find plenty more intriguing details in Jen
Lin-Liu’s delightful “ On the Noodle Road ,” which is part
travelogue, part culinary history and part cookbook.  She got the idea during a noodle-making class in  Rome  where
she was struck by the similarities between Italian and Chinese
pastas; she decides to retrace the ancient Silk Road in hope of
finding out how noodles first made their way to  Italy .  She quickly debunks the myth that  Marco Polo  was
responsible: Pasta figured in Italian diets long before the
Venetian ever headed east.  Her quest takes her through China, Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan,
Turkmenistan, Iran and  Turkey  and finally back to Rome. A
Chinese-American chef and food writer who started a cooking
school in Beijing, she trades her culinary skills with other
women she meets along the way.  In the intimacy of their kitchens, the women confide in
Lin-Liu, giving her entirely new insights into questions of
identity, marriage, motherhood and career -- questions she is
grappling with herself as a newlywed.  Trailing Spouse  She bridles at the word “wife,” which reminds her of a
woman who “wore hair curlers and a robe and yelled at
neighborhood cats,” and lives in fear of turning into a
trailing spouse -- though she’s happy to have her husband along
during a good chunk of her travels.  Lin-Liu’s storytelling comes alive with well-chosen
details: a Chinese cook pouring instant noodles from his thermos
on an ancestor’s grave; a butcher in  Turkmenistan  pausing in the
middle of slaughtering a sheep to answer his mobile phone with a
bloody hand.  Her writing displays wonderful flourishes too. Hand-pulled-noodle makers in China twirl the dough “around itself like a
dance partner” and an Iranian woman kneads the kebab “as
ferociously as a lion attacking its prey.”  Spartan Diet  If, like me, you have more in common with Lin-Liu’s
husband, who can survive for days on peanuts, reading this book
might turn you into a born-again epicurean. It includes some 30
recipes for tempting dishes like Chinese dumplings with lamb and
pumpkin, Persian chicken with walnut-and-pomegranate sauce and
orecchiette with turnip tops from Italy.  If the book has a flaw, it’s the title. Lin-Liu finds that
the noodle trail more or less goes dead by the time she gets to
Central Asia and  Iran , where pasta is supplanted by bread and
rice, and doesn’t pick up again until Turkey, albeit faintly.  The subtitle -- “From Beijing to Rome With Love and
Pasta” -- sounds a bit too much like a publisher’s idea of
pitching the book to readers of ‘‘Eat, Pray, Love.” For all its
strengths, I’d be very surprised to see Lin-Liu’s book turned
into a Hollywood blockbuster.  “On the Noodle Road” is published by Riverhead (388
pages, $27.95). To buy this book in North America  click here .  (Frederik Balfour is a reporter-at-large for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Katya Kazakina  on art and  Mark
Beech  on music.  To contact the writer on the story:
Frederik Balfour in  Hong Kong  at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net  or on Twitter @frederikbalfour.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 