-- Pennsylvania Residents Ask EPA to Reopen Fracking Probe
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-08-13T17:40:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/pennsylvania-residents-ask-epa-to-reopen-fracking-probe.html
Pennsylvania  residents petitioned
the Environmental Protection Agency to reopen an investigation
into water quality in Dimock, after  publication  of an internal
agency analysis that linked gas drilling to methane leaks.  Ray Kemble, who lives in the town, and Craig Stevens, who
lives nearby, today delivered a petition they said was signed by
60,000 people to EPA employees in Washington. They carried a
gallon of brown water they said came from a well used by Kemble.  “Even though I don’t like to call the federal government
in, you guys are our last hope,” Stevens told EPA staffers
outside the agency’s headquarters. “We need you to tell the
truth about fracking.”  Dimock, the northeast Pennsylvania town featured in the
film “Gasland,” has become a symbol for opponents questioning
the safety of hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, in which water,
sand and chemicals are shot underground to free gas trapped in
shale deep underground. In 2010,  state regulators  said drilling
by  Cabot Oil & Gas Corp. (COG)  near Dimock had contaminated local
wells, a finding disputed by the company. The subsequent EPA
investigation, concluded last year, found the water posed no
health risks to town residents.  In late July, environmentalists uncovered an unreleased
power-point presentation by an EPA employee that said fracking
caused methane to leak into drinking-water aquifers. The EPA
said the findings in the presentation were preliminary and more
study is needed. Cabot said water-well issues are the result of
natural gas migration, not its drilling or fracking.  Following publication of the internal report, the critics
of the gas-production technique say the EPA needs to return to
Dimock and reopen its probe into what has happened there.  “We will review the petition,” Alisha Johnson, an agency
spokeswoman who met with Kemble and Stevens, said in an e-mail.  Gas production in Pennsylvania surged in the past few years
as companies expanded use of fracking. Drillers are finding
natural gas in the Marcellus Shale, which is about 5,000 feet
under Pennsylvania and separated by thick rock layers from the
water aquifers, which are at most a few hundred feet beneath the
surface.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in  Washington  at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  