-- Petrobras Downgrade Looms as Slump Sinks Rating Outlooks
-- B y   B o r i s   K o r b y   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-08-13T16:23:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/petrobras-downgrade-looms-as-slump-sinks-rating-outlooks.html
More Brazilian issuers are under the
threat of rating downgrades than in any other Latin American
nation as a sluggish economy erodes the creditworthiness of
companies from Petroleo Brasileiro SA to Gol Linhas Aereas
Inteligentes SA.  Twenty-six borrowers with about $104 billion in dollar-denominated debt have negative outlooks on their credit grades
from Moody’s Investors Service, Standard & Poor’s or Fitch
Ratings. That’s three times the number of Mexican companies that
may have their ratings cut and almost double the number of
Brazilian companies in line for upgrades, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg and Credit Suisse Group AG.  Moody’s says corporate downgrades may outpace upgrades in
the coming year, after the weakest two-year stretch of economic
growth since 1999 and persistent inflation that sparked the
biggest protests in two decades prompted S&P to put  Brazil  on
review for a rating cut. Corporate leverage rose to 3.5 times in
2012, the highest in at least five years, according to Fitch.  “Brazil is a deteriorating story,” Allan Grauer, head of
Latin America debt trading at Mizuho Securities USA Inc., said
in an interview in  New York . “The amount of leverage in the
corporate sector in Brazil is increasing dramatically at a very
bad point.”  Bond Losses  Petrobras has met with rating companies to discuss leverage
levels and “agencies were left quite comfortable with the
rating,” Chief Financial Officer Almir Barbassa told reporters
yesterday. “The increase in leverage in the second half won’t
affect Petrobras’s rating perspective,” he said. The company’s
press office declined to comment further.  A press official for Gol, Brazil’s largest airline,
declined to comment on the company’s credit grade.  Dollar-denominated bonds from Brazilian companies  have lost
7.4 percent  this year, more than double the average decline of
3.3 percent in emerging markets. Brazilian corporate borrowing
costs have climbed an average 1.37 percentage points in the span
to 6.05 percent, according to  Bloomberg’s U.S. Dollar Emerging
Market Corporate Bond Index. (BEMC)   S&P says a negative outlook signals there’s at least a one
in three chance a rating will be cut in the next 24 months,
while for Fitch it means a company’s rating is likely to be
lowered in a one- to two-year period. Negative outlooks at
Moody’s indicate a higher likelihood of downgrade over the
medium term.  Petrobras Leverage  Median adjusted net debt to operating earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and rent for
Brazilian issuers rose to 3.5 times last year from 2.5 times in
2010, Fitch said in a June 25 report.  Petrobras’s ratio of adjusted net debt to operating Ebitdar
climbed to 3.5 times at the end of last year from two times in
2010, according to Fitch. The  outlook on its BBB rating , the
second-lowest investment grade, was lowered to negative in June
by S&P. Moody’s cut the outlook on the company’s A3 ranking in
December, citing rising debt levels.  State-controlled Petrobras plans to spend $236.5 billion in
the five years through 2016 to develop fields off the coast of
Brazil containing 50 billion barrels of crude.  Gol Outlook  Gol was cut to B-, six steps below investment grade, with a
negative outlook in April by Fitch as the currency’s plunge over
the past year eroded earnings. The real sank 12.2 percent in the
past three months, the most in  emerging markets .  The company’s leverage surged to 32.3 times last year from
3.7 times in 2010, compared with an average of 4.3 times for
Latin American companies that share its credit grade.  “Sectors with persistent weak fundamentals, such as steel
and oil services, are particularly exposed to deterioration of
credit metrics,” Barbara Mattos, an analyst at Moody’s, wrote
in a report to clients dated July 23. “We expect any upward
rating movement to be fairly limited over the next 12 months,
given the difficulties companies will have improving their
profitability and reducing leverage amid the current
macroeconomic environment.”  On June 6, S&P lowered the outlook on the government’s BBB
credit rating to negative, citing slower growth in  Latin
America ’s biggest economy.  Gross domestic product will expand just 2.21 percent in
2013, according to a central bank survey, down from forecasts of
4 percent a year ago. The economy grew 0.87 percent  last year .
Moody’s, S&P and Fitch have already reduced the rankings of
Brazilian companies 52 times this year while handing out 38
upgrades.  About 20 percent of non-financial corporate issuers in
Brazil rated by Moody’s have negative outlooks or are on review
for a rating downgrade, compared with just 6 percent in line for
upgrades.  ‘Pretty Well’  The real’s slump is benefiting companies that generate
hard-currency revenue by reducing costs locally and making goods
more competitive abroad, according to Shamaila Khan, an
emerging-market  money manager  at AllianceBernstein LP, which
oversees about $444 billion of assets.  “The question is, is there real credit deterioration at
the corporate level?” Kahn said in a telephone interview from
New York. “Margins are holding up pretty well, and that’s
really what matters from a fixed-income perspective.”  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian
government dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries slipped nine
basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 227 basis points at
11:58 a.m. in New York, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI
Global index.  Brazil’s five-year credit-default swaps, contracts
protecting holders of the nation’s debt against non-payment,
fell two basis points to 180 basis points.  Yields on interest-rate futures contracts due in January
climbed five basis points to 8.95 percent.  Brazil’s  total debt  as a percentage of gross domestic
product has swelled to 68.5 percent, the highest among so-called
BRIC nations including Russia, India and  China , according to the
 International Monetary Fund .  “The whole leverage concept extends from the sovereign,”
Mizuho’s Grauer said. “You’re seeing it on the growth side --
the denominator is shrinking.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Korby in New York at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  