-- Putin Critic Navalny Steps Up Corruption Charges in Mayoral Race
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2013-08-13T15:42:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/putin-critic-navalny-steps-up-corruption-charges-in-mayoral-race.html
Alexey Navalny, a leading opponent
of Russian President  Vladimir Putin  who was sentenced to prison
last month and is running for Moscow mayor, alleged a daughter
of the current city chief owns a $3.5 million apartment.  The 205-square-meter (2,200-square-foot) apartment in  St.
Petersburg  was acquired by 26-year-old Anna Sobyanina in 2011,
Navalny said today in a  posting  on his blog. She lives in St.
Petersburg with her husband and the apartment has nothing to do
with her father, Gulnara Penkova, a spokeswoman for Mayor  Sergei Sobyanin , said by text message.  Navalny, 37, said last week that a second daughter of
Sobyanin born in 1997 owns a 308-square-meter apartment in
Moscow valued at more than $5 million. Sobyanin said yesterday
that the property in the Russian capital held by his daughter
Olga was declared openly seven years ago.  Navalny, a lawyer and anti-corruption activist who helped
organize the biggest protests against Putin’s 13-year rule in
2011 and last year, vowed to contest the next presidential
election in 2018 and put Putin and his billionaire allies in
jail if he won. His conviction for embezzlement, if upheld,
would preclude him from ever holding public office.  The Prosecutor General’s Office said yesterday that it had
uncovered illegal foreign financing for Navalny’s campaign for
Moscow mayor in the Sept. 8 ballot. Navalny condemned what he
termed pressure on his campaign, denying getting foreign funds.  Navalny is the highest-rated challenger to the incumbent
mayor, with 9 percent backing to Sobyanin’s 54 percent,
according to an opinion poll published July 23 by the All-Russian Center for the Study of  Public Opinion , or VTsIOM.  On July 18, Navalny received a five-year prison sentence
for embezzling cash from a state timber company. He was later
released for the duration of his appeals process after thousands
of backers protested his conviction in central Moscow and other
major cities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  