-- RBNZ Urges Banks to Follow Spirit of Low-Deposit Loan Rules
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-08-13T04:25:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/rbnz-urges-banks-to-follow-spirit-of-low-deposit-loan-rules.html
New Zealand ’s central bank is urging
bank boards and management to comply with any limits it may
impose on home lending rather than promoting ways to get around
the rules.  Management and directors “will be expected to follow the
spirit, not just the letter of the restrictions,” Deputy
Governor Grant Spencer said in a statement today. “In
particular, they will need to ensure that the policy is not
avoided or undermined through innovative lending practices.”  The Reserve Bank wants to curb home lending, particularly
on deposits of less than 20 percent of the property value,
because the banking system is increasing exposed to any collapse
in house prices. Governor Graeme Wheeler is reluctant to raise
 interest rates  to calm the housing market because that may stoke
demand for the  New Zealand dollar , hurting exports.  “LVR restrictions on residential mortgage lending can help
to dampen excessive house price growth in periods when credit
growth is boosting housing demand beyond housing supply,”
Spencer said. “In so doing, they can reduce the risk of a rapid
correction in  house prices  and the economic and financial
instability that would ensue.”  The central bank hasn’t yet determined whether it will
apply any limits, and reiterated today it will give at least two
weeks advance notice before the restrictions take effect. It
plans some technical changes to how the restrictions on high
loan-to-value lending will apply, Spencer said in the statement.  New Zealand home prices rose 8.1 percent from a year
earlier in July, the most since 2008, according to Quotable
Value New Zealand, a government-owned property research company.  Bank Requirements  Banks who lend more than NZ$100 million ($80 million) a
month will initially be required to meet the restriction,
measured as an average rate over a six-month window rather than
three months, he said. Thereafter, a three-month window will
apply. Smaller banks will keep the six-month window.  In their submissions, banks raised the risk that third-party lenders and other devices would be used to get around the
limits. The  Reserve Bank  would look at the extent any registered
bank used such arrangements and would also be concerned about
prominent marketing of such products, it said in a separate
response to the submissions, on its  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  