-- Real Madrid Cools Interest in Signing Bale: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-08-13T08:59:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/real-madrid-cools-interest-in-signing-bale-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Real Cools on Bale  Real Madrid’s interest in signing Tottenham Hotspur’s
Gareth Bale is cooling after coach  Carlo Ancelotti  told club
president  Florentino Perez  that he didn’t consider the player
integral to his plans this season, the  Daily Telegraph reported .  Ancelotti’s position could prompt Manchester United to
formalize its interest in Bale following the Red Devils’ failure
to re-sign Cristiano Ronaldo from Real, the newspaper added.  Eto’o Eyes Chelsea  Cameroon striker Samuel Eto’o is interested in joining
Chelsea after being put up for sale by Russian club Anzhi
Makhachkala, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Eto’o wants to work with Chelsea manager  Jose Mourinho 
again after winning the  Champions League  under him at Inter
Milan, and the Blues may move for the 32-year-old if they fail
in their attempts to sign  Wayne Rooney  from Manchester United,
the newspaper added.  Suarez Silence  Luis Suarez  imposed a ban on discussing his attempts to
leave Liverpool this week while he’s on international duty with
Uruguay, the  Daily Mail reported .  The striker will refuse to answer questions regarding his
future and is said to have asked his Uruguay teammates not to
comment on the matter, the newspaper said. Arsenal will probably
make a third offer for Suarez this week, the Mail added.  Gustavo Welcomes Gunners  Bayern Munich’s Luiz Gustavo welcomed a potential move to
Arsenal, which is hopeful of completing a 14 million-pound
($21.6 million) deal for the Brazilian defensive midfielder this
week, the  Guardian reported .  “I have heard about the Arsenal interest,” the Guardian
cited Gustavo as saying. “It’s a big club we’re talking about
here so of course I’d like to play for them.”  Pepe Alternatives  Manchester City manager Manuel Pellegrini may move for
Schalke center-back Kyriakos Papadopoulos or Napoli captain
Paolo Cannavaro if he misses out on Real Madrid defender Pepe,
the  Mirror reported .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  