-- Auto Executives Jostle to Lead GM-Ford Succession Races
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   J e f f   G r e e n
-- 2013-08-14T20:03:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/renault-coo-lusting-after-top-gm-job-portends-defections.html
As the top lieutenant to  Renault SA (RNO) 
Chief Executive Officer Carlos Ghosn, Carlos Tavares admits he’s
unlikely to succeed his boss, who’s just 59. So he wants to run
 General Motors Co. (GM)  or  Ford Motor Co. (F)  instead.  “We have a big leader and he is here to stay,” said
Tavares, who turns 55 today. “Anyone who is passionate about
the auto industry comes to a conclusion that there is a point
where you have the energy and appetite for a No. 1 position.”  Renault’s chief operating officer is hardly alone in his
maneuvering for the top job at an American carmaker as GM boss
Dan Akerson, 64, and Ford CEO Alan Mulally, 68, may retire soon.
The U.S. auto industry is roaring back, fueling the careers of
executives who engineered Ford’s restructuring or helped GM and
Chrysler Group LLC shake off the vestiges of a government-backed
bankruptcy.  The top of the industry is filled with “extremely bright,
extremely ambitious people,” said Richard Kolpasky, a managing
director at recruiter Boyden Global Executive Search. “There’s
only one CEO chair when the music stops. The majority of people
at that level have the desire to be No. 1.”  Ford in October promoted Mark Fields, 52, to chief
operating officer, making him a leading candidate to succeed
Mulally. At the same time, the company said Mulally will stay at
least through 2014.  Taken Seriously  “Ford Motor Co. takes succession planning very seriously,
and we have succession plans in place for each of our key
leadership positions,” said Ray Day, a spokesman. “Our
preference always is to develop talent internally, and we are
fortunate to have a strong list of internal candidates for each
of our senior leadership positions. We also, of course, survey
the external environment for potential candidates as a regular
course of action. For obvious competitive reasons, we do not
discuss our succession plans externally.”  At GM, at least four executives, including North America
President  Mark Reuss , 49, and Mary Barra, 51, head of global
product development, have been mentioned as CEO contenders. GM
in April said it had restructured Akerson’s pay to reflect the
possibility he’ll retire within three years.  GM had no comment, said Greg Martin, a spokesman.  “When you have the luxury of time to plan, you would think
the company would look inside and outside for the best
candidate,” said Richard Spitzer, CEO of management consulting
firm Spitzer Group in Houston.  Best Chance  Tavares hasn’t talked to Ford or GM about future CEO
openings, he said in an interview. But he said his best chance
to run an automaker is in the U.S.  “With over 14 years of stable and consistent leadership,
the Renault-Nissan Alliance is well-positioned for the future,”
Simon Sproule, head of communications for the Renault-Nissan
alliance, said in an e-mail. “Any remarks by individuals on
executive management strategy are their own personal opinions
and not for any further comment.”  Under Tavares, Renault reported unexpected growth in first-half profit as labor-cost reductions and higher vehicle prices
more than offset an industrywide slump in European deliveries.  When Tavares oversaw North America for  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) , 43
percent owned by Renault, he helped the company earn 209 billion
yen ($2.2 billion) in the region in the year ended March 2010,
versus a 46.7 billion yen loss in 2009. During the downturn, he
retained experienced factory hands by persuading them to work
four days a week instead of five, with a 20 percent pay cut.  “My experience would be good for any car company,”
Tavares said. “Why not GM? I would be honored to lead a company
like GM.”  Fighter Pilot  Among the best-known players of musical chairs in the auto
industry is Bob Lutz, a cigar-chomping ex-Marine fighter pilot
turned auto-design guru. Lutz started at GM in the 1960s, left
for BMW in the early 1970s, then held jobs at Ford and Chrysler.  Lutz, now 81, retired from Chrysler in 1998 shortly after
its merger with Daimler AG. He rejoined GM in 2001 to help lead
a product revival there until retiring again in 2010.  Lutz’s moves were spurred by “frustration, coupled with a
better opportunity,” he said in an interview. “That’s the
magic ingredient.”  Ford arguably lost its spot as the world’s largest
automaker nine decades ago because “Big Bill” Knudsen left
Ford in 1920 for a job revamping  Chevrolet , said  John Wolkonowicz , an automotive historian and a former Ford product
planner. By 1927, Chevrolet was the biggest auto brand and Ford
was second.  Moving Up  Job-hopping “is a big part of the industry,” Wolkonowicz
said. “People are trying to move up in the world.”  Tavares says looking for a shot at a top spot elsewhere
isn’t disloyal. Instead, he said, it’s a reflection of ambition
and concern that if Ghosn retires when Tavares is 60, it will be
too late for him. The Portuguese executive, who joined Renault
31 years ago as a test-driving engineer, has a background in
product development.  “GM may have other candidates who are good and if it
doesn’t happen, that’s OK,” he said. “I would consider other
companies, but the Detroit companies have succession coming.”  One of the obstacles for junior executives in today’s
scramble is that the CEOs at major automakers are all doing a
pretty good job, said Charles Tribbett, co-leader of the CEO
search practice at recruiter Russell Reynolds Associates Inc.
Nonetheless, many of their underlings also have the ability --
and desire -- to run a company, he said.  GM has gained 23 percent this year while Ford surged 30
percent, compared with an 18 percent gain for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index.  “They are all very talented and the longer you wait, the
harder they are to retain,” Tribbett said. “You have to be
pretty transparent at the board level in terms of a succession
plan. When it’s vague, you run the risk of losing executives.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Welch in  New York  at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Green in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  