-- Republicans Backing Holder Spotlight Crime Policy Shift
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2013-08-14T16:53:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/republicans-backing-holder-spotlight-crime-policy-shift.html
(Corrects spelling of Marc Levin’s name in 19th paragraph
of story published Aug. 13.)  Once a U.S. political issue central
to Republican campaign attacks against Democrats, the push to be
“tough on crime” has transformed -- from statehouses to
 Washington  -- into being “smart on crime.”  The shift -- driven by economic and social costs -- has
created unlikely political allies, with Democrats and President
 Barack Obama ’s administration lining up with Republicans. Both
sides are searching for alternatives to a criminal sentencing
system that has the U.S. prisons housing 1.5 million inmates.  “There are better and far less expensive ways to do it and
I think that’s what’s persuading people -- Republican, Democrat,
conservative or liberal -- to go in that direction,” said
former Massachusetts Governor  Michael Dukakis , the 1988
Democratic presidential nominee whose campaign was targeted for
Republican attacks that he was soft on crime.  The rare partisan agreement on the issue in Washington is
the result of a confluence of events and data, including the
explosion in federal spending on the U.S. prison population and
the growing body of research that shows diversionary programs
and alternatives to incarceration serve as more effective
deterrents to repeat offenses.  Attorney General Eric Holder, in a speech yesterday
detailing the core tenets of the Justice Department’s proposals
to address the issue, commended members of both parties for
coming together to deal with what he described as the racial and
financial inequities that have grown as harsher prison sentences
have been imposed over the past 30 years. The U.S. legal system,
Holder  said , is “in many respects broken.”  Starting Changes  He ordered  Justice Department  prosecutors to avoid bringing
charges that carry mandatory minimum sentences against
nonviolent drug offenders with no ties to criminal
organizations. Holder also announced revised criteria for
sentence reductions, expanding the circumstances to include
elderly inmates and certain inmates who represent the only
caretaker for dependents.  The Justice Department initiative follows an eight-month
effort behind closed doors to review and draft proposals to
reshape the system. The result was “monumental,” said Alison
Siegler, a professor at the  University of Chicago Law School .
Its release now is driven in part by Obama not having to worry
about running for re-election, she said.  “I was really struck by the acknowledgment that the system
is broken and that the problems grow so deep,” Siegler, the
founder and director of the Federal Criminal Justice Clinic,
said in a telephone interview. “It’s pretty rare to hear that
kind of frank acknowledgment.”  Republican Support  Holder seized on the growing Republican support behind
changes, citing the successful diversionary programs for drug
offenders run by Republican governors and calling legislative
moves by Republican Senators Rand Paul of  Kentucky  and  Mike Lee 
of Utah “promising.”  For Holder, who has tangled with Paul over U.S. drone-attack policy and faced a barrage of calls for his resignation
over other disputes with Republican lawmakers, his alliance with
some of the party’s members of Congress and governors is new.  The effort Holder is helping push, though, hasn’t been
embraced by everyone.  House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte, a
Virginia Republican, said that while he agreed with Holder on
“many of the policy issues,” he differed with the attorney
general’s decision to make changes without new laws.  “If Attorney General Holder wants to reform our criminal
justice system, he should work with Congress to do so,”
Goodlatte said.  Sentencing Flexibility  Paul, who along with Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman
 Patrick Leahy , a Vermont Democrat, has proposed giving federal
judges more sentencing flexibility, called the decision by the
Obama administration to move on the issue “a welcome
development.”  “Now the hard work begins to change the law to permanently
address this injustice,” he said.  Paul and Lee, both of whom won their Senate seats in 2010
and brought with them libertarian leanings, have joined the
likes of anti-tax advocate  Grover Norquist , former Florida
Governor Jeb Bush, former Attorney General Edwin Meese and
former National Rifle Association President  David Keene  to
support changing a prison system that cost the federal
government more than $80 billion in 2010.  Justice Spending  Those four are among a group of self-described
conservatives who have signed onto the “ Right On Crime ”
statement of principles, which advocate more focus on
alternative programs and rehabilitation and a move away from
incarceration for those not considered the worst offenders.  “Conservatives are known for being tough on crime, but we
must also be tough on criminal justice spending,” say the
principles, drafted by the  Texas  Public Policy Foundation.  The change in attitudes has been percolating through states
before reaching the federal level. Marc Levin, the Austin,
Texas-based director of the Center for Effective Justice,
pointed to multiple Republican-led states, sparked by changes
made in Texas, that have cut criminal justice spending while
also reducing crime.  Holder, in his speech, pointed to these efforts as a model,
after each played a role in driving the state prison population
across the country down by more than 29,000, or 2.1 percent, in
2012 from the year prior. During that time the federal prison
population increased by almost 1,500 inmates.  Changing Attitudes  The Republican drive to make changes is notable for a party
that can lay claim to spearheading the “war on drugs” campaign
in the early 1970s and, in 1988, used the issue of prisoner
releases and furloughs against Dukakis in his unsuccessful White
House campaign against Republican  George H.W. Bush .  Led by the late Republican campaign operative Lee Atwater,
Bush’s campaign seized on the case of Willie Horton, a convicted
murder who was allowed out of prison on a weekend furlough
designed to aid the reintegration process. While out, Horton
raped a woman. The highlighting of the crime by Bush and his
allies proved devastating to Dukakis, who at one point had a
double-digit lead in some polls.  Dukakis said research showing that harsh sentences did more
harm than good was not readily available during his presidential
campaign -- something that has changed in recent years. He also
said the financial strain of incarceration, particularly at the
state level, has helped drive the push for changes.  When states look at proposals “that seem to work a hell of
a lot better at much less cost, than I don’t care where you’re
coming from ideologically, it seems to me we ought to be
exploring those kinds of things, and that’s what’s happening,”
Dukakis, a professor at  Northeastern University  in  Boston , said.  Senate Hearing  On the federal level, Leahy’s panel will convene next month
to hold a hearing on the issue and House lawmakers from both
parties have formed a  task force  to study the sentencing system
and release a report that will include recommendations.  Siegler, who specializes in criminal procedure and federal
sentencing, said she is “cautiously optimistic” that lawmakers
will move forward on broader proposals.  “The fiscal issues are hitting people and helping them
recognize that this is a real problem,” she said. “We
economically cannot continue to incarcerate at the rate we’ve
been going and something has to give.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  