-- Ruble Drops to Four-Year Low as Bank Rossii Shifts Trading Band
-- B y   V l a d i m i r   K u z n e t s o v
-- 2013-08-13T15:21:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/ruble-drops-to-four-year-low-as-bank-rossii-shifts-trading-band.html
The ruble weakened to its lowest
level in four years on a closing basis as the Russian central
bank moved its trading band higher for the sixth time since the
end of June.  The currency depreciated 0.1 percent to 37.9437 versus the
euro-dollar basket by 6 p.m. in Moscow, the lowest close since
September 2009. The yields on the government’s ruble bond due
February 2027 rose four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point,
to 7.71 percent.  The Russian regulator raised the corridor for the ruble
against the basket by 5 kopeks to 31.95-38.95 from Aug. 12, it
said on its website today. Bank Rossii spent the equivalent of
about 319 billion rubles ($9.7 billion) buying the national
currency since May 29 after U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said the Fed could scale back monthly bond purchases
that had helped fuel a rally in emerging-market assets.  “Recent consecutive shifts of the corridor prove that the
Russian authorities do not mind seeing a steady weakening of the
ruble,” Vladimir Miklashevsky, a trading desk strategist in
Danske Bank S/A in Helsinki, said in e-mailed comments. “They
see room to help domestic production and seize growing
imports.”  Russian gross domestic product growth decelerated to 1.2
percent in the second quarter, from 1.6 percent in the first
quarter, the Federal Statistics Service said in preliminary
estimates on Aug. 9. The central bank left interest rates
unchanged that day, doing so for the 11th consecutive month.  Dividend Demand  The peaking summer vacation season with rising demand for
foreign currency is putting pressure on the current account and
the ruble, according to Dmitry Dorofeev, a strategist and trader
at BCS Financial Group in Moscow.  Russia ’s current account surplus narrowed to $6.9 billion
from $25.1 billion in the previous quarter, the central bank
said on it website on July 3.  “Fundamental factors are in action,” Dorofeev said. “The
latest move of the corridor won’t help the ruble strengthen in
the short term, but will prompt investors to continue betting
against it.”  The ruble may come under more pressure as companies seek
foreign currency to meet dividend payments to holders of global
depositary receipts, according to VTB Capital. Payments may
reach $6 billion with $5 billion coming in the last week of the
month, Ilya Piterskiy, a VTB analyst, said in an e-mailed report
today.  “Consequently, dividend cash flows might put downward
pressure on the ruble during the last week of August, which was
the case last year,” Piterskiy said.  Bank Reserves  The ruble has declined by almost 9 percent against the
dollar-euro basket since the beginning of 2012. The compares
with a 5.7 percent drop for JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s  index of
emerging-market currencies . The ruble lost 0.3 percent against
the dollar today to 33.1020 and appreciated less than 0.1
percent versus the euro to 43.8660.  Bank Rossii shifts the trading band as soon as so-called
non-targeted interventions reach $450 million. The trading
corridor’s adjustment is designed to keep the ruble from
spending too much time in the weaker parts of the intervention
zones, where the central bank spends as much as $400 million a
day, and help preserve its foreign currency and gold reserves,
according to Morgan Stanley analysts led by Rashique Rahman.  “However, the adjustments in the corridor, amid the
persistent pressure on the ruble, have simply reduced the
resistance to further weakness,” the Morgan Stanley analysts
said in an e-mailed note.  The central bank expects no “sizable” appreciation in the
ruble in the second half of the year, as the Finance Ministry
will absorb any additional supply of foreign currency, the
regulator said in a report on its website yesterday.  “As part of a policy agreement between Bank Rossii and the
Finance Ministry, in case the supply of foreign currency on the
local market exceeds demand, starting August, the Finance
Ministry will independently purchase foreign currency in order
to replenish state funds,” the central bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vladimir Kuznetsov in Moscow at 
 vkuznetsov2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  