-- Ruble Heads for Four-Year Low as Bank Rossii Shifts Trading Band
-- B y   V l a d i m i r   K u z n e t s o v
-- 2013-08-13T08:57:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/ruble-heads-for-four-year-low-as-bank-rossii-shifts-trading-band.html
The ruble weakened, heading for its
lowest close in almost four years, as the central bank moved its
trading band higher for the sixth time since the end of June.  The currency depreciated 0.2 percent to 37.9613 versus the
euro-dollar basket by 12:23 p.m. in Moscow, the lowest since
September 2009 on a closing basis. The yields on the benchmark
OFZ due February 2027 rose three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 7.70 percent.  Bank Rossii spent the equivalent of about 319 billion
rubles ($9.7 billion) buying the national currency since May 29
after U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said the
central bank could scale back monthly bond purchases that helped
fuel a rally in emerging-market assets. The Russian regulator
raised the corridor for the ruble against the basket by 5 kopeks
to 31.95-38.95 from August 12, it said on its website today.  “Recent consecutive shifts of the corridor prove that the
Russian authorities do not mind seeing a steady weakening of the
ruble,” Vladimir Miklashevsky, a trading desk strategist in
Danske Bank S/A in Helsinki, said in e-mailed comments. “They
see room to help domestic production and seize growing
imports.”  Russian gross domestic product growth decelerated to 1.2
percent in the second quarter, from 1.6 percent in the first
quarter, the Federal Statistics Service said on Aug. 9. The
central bank left interest rates unchanged that day.  Dividend Demand  Bank Rossii shifts the trading band as soon as so-called
non-targeted interventions reaches $450 million. The summer
vacation season is also peaking with rising demand for foreign
currency putting pressure on the current account, according to
Dmitry Dorofeev, a strategist and trader at BCS Financial Group
in Moscow said.  “Fundamental factors are in action,” he said. “The
latest move of the corridor won’t help the ruble strengthen in
the short term, but will prompt investors to continue betting
against it.”  The ruble may come under more pressure as companies seek
foreign currency to meet dividend payments to holders of global
depositary receipts, according to VTB Capital. Payments may
reach $6 billion with $5 billion coming in the last week of the
month, Ilya Piterskiy, a VTB analyst, said in an e-mailed report
today.  “Consequently, dividend cash flows might put downward
pressure on the ruble during the last week of August, which was
the case last year,” Piterskiy said.  The ruble has declined by almost 9 percent against the
dollar-euro basket since the beginning of 2012. The compares
with a 5.7 percent drop for JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s  index of
emerging-market currencies . The ruble lost 0.2 percent against
the dollar today to 33.0570 and 0.1 percent versus the euro to
43.9335.  No Appreciation  The central bank expects no “sizable” appreciation in the
ruble in the second half of the year, as the Finance Ministry
will absorb any additional supply of foreign currency, the
regulator said in a report on its website yesterday.  “As part of a policy agreement between Bank Rossii and the
Finance Ministry, in case the supply of foreign currency on the
local market exceeds demand, starting August, the Finance
Ministry will independently purchase foreign currency in order
to replenish state funds,” the central bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vladimir Kuznetsov in Moscow at 
 vkuznetsov2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  