-- Sampo Falls on Finnish Stake-Sale Speculation: Helsinki Mover
-- B y   K a s p e r   V i i t a   a n d   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2013-08-13T14:06:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/sampo-falls-on-finnish-stake-sale-speculation-helsinki-mover.html
Sampo Oyj (SAMAS) , the Nordic region’s
largest non-life insurer, and  TeliaSonera AB (TLS1V) , one of Finland’s
two biggest phone companies, fell in Helsinki trading on
speculation the government may reduce holdings in the companies.  Sampo slid as much as 1.8 percent, the steepest intraday
drop in six weeks, and TeliaSonera lost as much as 1.4 percent.
Trading volume was 80 percent of the three-month daily average
for Sampo stock. TeliaSonera’s volume exceeded the three-month
average by 57 percent.  The Finnish state is “likely” to scale back its stakes,
Reuters reported, citing Mikael Jungner, a lawmaker of Finance
Minister Jutta Urpilainen’s Social Democratic Party. Jungner
 wrote  in his blog the comments were misunderstood and that the
state had taken no decisions.  “Perhaps the markets have started thinking about which
would be the most likely alternatives that the government could
sell,” Antti Saari, an analyst at Pohjola Bank Oyj, said by
phone. “These are both liquid stocks with a good valuation at
the moment, making them quite logical choices.”  Sampo owns If, the Nordic region’s biggest property and
casualty insurer. The Finnish unit of Stockholm-based
TeliaSonera competes with  Elisa Oyj (ELI1V)  in the country’s
telecommunications market.  Solidium Oy, which manages the equity holdings of the
Finnish state, has 14.2 percent of Helsinki-based Sampo, valued
at 2.66 billion euros ($3.5 billion), and 11.7 percent of
TeliaSonera shares, valued at 2.76 billion euros, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Solidium sold a 2.1 percent stake in
TeliaSonera in March 2012.  Finland’s government will post its sixth consecutive  budget
deficit  next year, according to a proposal by the  Finance
Ministry  last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kasper Viita in Helsinki at 
 kviita1@bloomberg.net ;
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  