-- Samsung Odds Slim for Obama Veto of Apple-Won Phone Ban
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   J u n g a h   L e e
-- 2013-08-13T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/samsung-odds-slim-for-obama-veto-of-apple-won-phone-ban.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  may not get
the sort of presidential reprieve  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  won earlier this
month from an order limiting U.S. imports of some smartphones
and tablet computers.  Samsung can’t make the public-policy arguments Apple used
to sway President  Barack Obama ’s administration, which  vetoed  an
import ban ordered by the U.S. International Trade Commission on
certain iPhone 4 and iPad 2 models, according to lawyers and
analysts. That makes it more likely a separate ban ordered on
some Samsung products Aug. 9 will take effect after a
presidential review period ends in October.  Apple could show its case dovetailed with the
administration’s expressed interest in limiting the power of
patents underlying fundamental technology used across an
industry. Samsung’s products were ordered banned Aug. 9 for
infringing two Apple patents on features that differentiate one
phone from another -- an issue between the two companies that
doesn’t involve a widely-used standard.  “You have to look at it in that context -- even the
president has been speaking about it,” said  Jim Altman , a
patent lawyer with Foster, Murphy, Altman & Nickel in  Washington 
who specializes in ITC cases. To overturn the Samsung ban,
“he’d have to go off on a whole different level of reasoning.”  Samsung, the world’s largest smartphone maker, was ordered
to stop selling phones and tablet devices that infringe Apple
patents for multitouch technology and headphone jack detection.  Standards Patents  The commission said Samsung products including Continuum
and Transform models infringe the headphone jack patent, while
the Galaxy Tab 7.0 tablet computer and Galaxy S II -- the
precursor to Samsung’s top-selling Galaxy S4 -- do not.  The Apple patents “go to additional features, they go to
convenience, but they don’t go to the core function of how do I
make a telephone call,” said  Jeff Lewis  of Patterson Belknap
Webb & Tyler in  New York .  The decision must be reviewed by U.S. Trade Representative
 Michael Froman , who is designated by the president to review ITC
bans.  In his Aug. 3 letter stopping the import ban on certain
older iPhones and iPads, Froman said he based his decision on
Samsung’s ownership of standards patents being at the core of
the case. Obama’s administration has  expressed  concerns that
“potential harms” can result if patent holders use those as
leverage against competitors, he said.  Froman repeated guidelines sent to the agency in January by
the U.S. Justice Department and U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office. He didn’t say whether he believed Samsung had misused
its patents that relate to standards for how devices transmit
data.  ‘Core Function’  The administration could veto the Samsung import ban to
push the two companies into ending their global litigation
that’s lasted more than two years and cost hundreds of millions
of dollars, said Jung Dong Joon, a patent lawyer with SU
Intellectual Property.  “Obama may want to deliver his message that any import ban
will only end up having damage to consumers and try to bring the
two back to the negotiation table for a settlement,” Jung said.  The administration, by not blocking the Samsung ban, could
open itself up to criticism that it was favoring an American
company over a Korean one.  “The U.S. administration can’t just unconditionally use
its power to veto the import ban on Apple’s products alone,”
said Lee Sun Tae, an analyst at Seoul-based NH Investment &
Securities. “Obama may issue the reprieve again for Samsung,
and if not, it will only bring up even bigger international
conflict.”  Customs’ Task  Samsung has said it’s worked around the two Apple patents
and the commission, in its Aug. 9 decision, agreed that the
design-around products it had seen were in the clear.  “Samsung will continue to launch many innovative products,
and we have already taken measures to ensure that all of our
products will continue to be available in the  United States ,”
 Adam Yates , a Samsung spokesman, said after the decision was
announced.  That means if Obama and Froman choose not to get involved
in Samsung’s case, the next fight will take place before  U.S.
Customs  and  Border Protection , the Homeland Security agency
charged with enforcing import bans.  During arguments before a U.S. appeals court Aug. 9, Apple
lawyer William Lee of WilmerHale in  Boston  said that, in some
instances, Samsung has pulled model names from the market while
selling essentially the same product under a different name.  ‘Broken’ Process  Each company will present separate arguments to Customs
officials -- Apple to get more products halted at the border and
Samsung to ensure there’s no disruption in shipments. Neither
will know what the other is saying.  “I don’t want to imply that Customs is perfect but I
think, on balance, Customs has done a pretty good job,” Altman
said. “They’re enforcing a lot of intellectual property rights
in an agency whose main mission is homeland security and
immigration.”  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  filed a lawsuit last month accusing Customs
of failing to enforce an import ban on certain phones made by
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Motorola Mobility unit.  “Mounting evidence indicates CBP’s process for
implementing exclusion orders is broken,” Representative Howard Coble, a North Carolina Republican who heads the House
subcommittee on courts, intellectual property and the Internet,
wrote to Homeland Security Secretary  Janet Napolitano  on Aug. 2.  Obama on June 4 ordered a review of the procedures used by
Customs and the ITC “to ensure the process and standards
utilized during exclusion order enforcement activities are
transparent, effective, and efficient.”  The Apple case against Samsung is In the Matter of
Electronic Digital Media Devices, 337-796, and Samsung’s case is
In the Matter of Electronic Devices, Including Wireless
Communication Devices, Portable Music and Data Processing
Devices, and Tablet Computers, 337-794, both U.S. International
Trade Commission (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susan Decker  in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;
Jungah Lee in  Seoul  at 
 jlee1361@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  