-- Schindler Falls as China, India Growth Hampers Profit
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2013-08-13T13:15:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/schindler-raises-sales-forecast-on-china-elevator-demand.html
Schindler Holding AG (SCHP)  dropped the
most in two years after the Swiss elevator maker cut its profit
forecast, saying expansion in China and  India  is hampering
profitability. The shares dropped as much as 7.1 percent.  Schindler sees net profit of around 550 million francs
($592 million) to 600 million francs this year, including a 155
million-franc charge on its investment in  Hyundai Elevator Co. (017800) 
That compared with an earlier forecast of as much as 790 million
francs. Profit fell 78 percent to 40 million euros in the second
quarter.  “The expansion of Schindler’s market position in growth
markets is advancing as planned but is having an impact on
operating profit,” the Ebikon-based company said in a  statement 
today.  Schindler earnings follow those of Helsinki-based rival
 Kone Oyj (KNEBV) , which said July 19 that second-quarter sales grew 14
percent on strong China demand. Juergen Tinggren, Schindler’s
chief executive officer, is ramping up investment in  Asia  to
counter declining sales in  Europe  as governments cut public
spending.  Profitability in the second quarter was below market
estimates because of the cost of new products and factories, as
well as pricing pressure, Kepler Cheuvreux analyst Oliver Girakhou wrote in a note to clients.  China Demand  “The main items to blame were related to the expansion of
Schindler’s market position in growth markets,” he said.  Schindler said it expects 7 percent sales growth in local
currencies for the full year, up from an April 19 forecast for 6
percent growth. The Swiss company will start production at the
world’s largest escalator plant in Jiading,  China  at the end of
this year, as well as expanding production in India, Slovakia
and the U.S., it said.  Earnings before interest and taxes grew by 1.3 percent in
the first half to 470 million francs. Sales in local currencies
increased 7 percent to 4.3 billion francs.  Schindler shares fell 6.1 percent at 2:32 p.m. in Zurich.
They have risen 2 percent this year, trailing the Swiss Market
Index, which is up 18 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  