-- Serb Yields at 4-Month High Before New Finance Minister Is Named
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-08-13T13:02:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/serb-yields-at-4-month-high-before-new-finance-minister-is-named.html
Serbian government borrowing costs
rose to the highest in four months before Prime Minister  Ivica Dacic  appoints a new finance minister and reveals the future
policies for his revamped cabinet.  The government sold 3.42 billion dinars ($39.87 million) of
three-year Treasury bonds of the 10 billion dinars being
offered. Yields rose to 12 percent at an auction in Belgrade
today, advancing 150 basis points since June 26 when the
government also tapped the market with three-year debt,
according to the Debt Management Agency’s e-mailed report. Bid
yields ranged from 9.30 percent to 13 percent, it said.  “No one really wants to commit to such a distant time
horizon because no one knows who will be the next finance
minister and what his policies will be,” Ljiljana Grubic, an
analyst with Raiffeisen Banka AD in Belgrade, said by phone.  Dacic’s Socialists together with the dominant Serbian
Progressive Party of former nationalists led by Deputy Premier
Aleksandar Vucic gave themselves an Aug. 26 deadline to complete
a government shuffle that led to the ouster of Finance Minister
 Mladjan Dinkic  and his United Regions of  Serbia  on July 30. The
Progressives agreed to continue to work with the Socialists,
averting early elections.  Yields on the three-year debt rose to the highest since
April 23, when the borrowing costs over three years bottomed out
at 10.49 percent, the Debt Agency’s statistics show.     Serbia
plans to raise 27 billion dinars in four bond sales and 50
million euros in one placement of euro-denominated debt this
month, according to the Debt Agency.  Vucic wants to hire former International Monetary Fund
Managing Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  to advise the
government on economic and financial policies and has been in
talks with a McKinsey & Co consultant to take over the  Finance
Ministry .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  