-- Sibanye Considers Special Dividend as Profit and Production Rise
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2013-08-13T06:52:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/sibanye-considers-special-dividend-as-profit-and-production-rise.html
Sibanye Gold Ltd. (SGL) , the South African
miner spun off from Gold Fields Ltd. earlier this year, said it
may consider paying special dividends after profit and output
increased in the first half from the previous six months.  Operating profit rose 63 percent to 3.3 billion rand ($363
million) in the six months to June 30, compared with the
previous half-year period, the Westonaria-based company said
today in a statement. Gold production advanced 23 percent to
656,300 ounces and available cash rose seven-fold to 2.1 billion
rand in the period.  “The improving operational performance and the debt
restructuring has ensured that the company is well placed to
declare a maiden dividend, once there is sufficient financial
and operational stability,” the company said in the statement.  Sibanye, formed as a collection of South African gold-mining assets in February, has pledged to cut costs and improve
productivity, paving the way for dividends. The company
renegotiated the terms of its debt with its lenders earlier this
year, removing the constraint on a potential half-year payout,
which can be made once wage negotiations are completed.  Sibanye, alongside fellow South African miners  AngloGold
Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  and Harmony Gold Mining Co., are battling labor
unions over demands for wage increases of more than 100 percent
amid a gold price that has fallen 20 percent this year. The KDC
and Beatrix mines lost 110,000 ounces of output following
strikes last year, Gold Fields said in a February statement.  “We are well prepared for extended strikes and have made
plans to limit losses should production disruptions occur,”
Sibanye said. “We are aware of the critical need to control
costs in order to stabilize production and extend the lives of
the operations and will not be coerced into unsustainable
outcomes.”  All-in costs reduced to $1,322 an ounce in the first half,
compared with $1,623 in the six months to December and $1,275 an
ounce in the first half of 2012, Sibanye said.  So-called headline earnings, which exclude one-time items,
almost doubled to 881 million rand in the first half from the
previous six months, and dropped 65 percent from the
2.52 billion rand reported in the first half of 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in Johannesburg at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  