-- Sina to NQ Surge on Revenue Forecasts: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-08-13T22:11:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/sina-to-nq-surge-on-revenue-forecasts-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks rallied to a six-month high in  New York  as better-than-estimated revenue
forecasts boosted Internet companies from Sina Corp. to  NQ
Mobile Inc. (NQ)   The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. climbed 1.5 percent to 97.41
yesterday, the highest level since Feb. 6. Sina, a Twitter-like
service provider, rose to the highest since 2011 and mobile
security software company NQ soared 23 percent.  Renren Inc. (RENN) 
jumped 15 percent following a news report it was selling a unit
to  Baidu Inc. (BIDU)  Vipshop Holdings Ltd. tumbled after Citron
Research wrote on Twitter that the company’s shares may drop
more than 50 percent.  Among companies on the China-US gauge that reported
earnings since July 21, 95 percent have surpassed analysts’
average projections,  compared with  59 percent a year ago,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. At least four analysts
raised their price estimates for Sina after its second-quarter
earnings beat the mean projection, while the price targets for
NQ and  WuXi PharmaTech Cayman Inc. (WX)  were also increased.  “Chinese Internet companies have overall reported better-than-projected earnings,” Echo He, a New York-based senior
analyst at Maxim Group LLC said by phone yesterday.
“Advertising revenues at most Internet companies look strong,
which may be leading a recovery in the broader economy.”  The iShares China Large-Cap  ETF (FXI) , the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., climbed 2 percent in its
fourth day of gains to a two-month high of $36.38. The Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index added 0.3 percent as data on retail sales
reinforced signals the economy is expanding moderately.  Sina Rises  Sina advanced 3.2 percent to $82.90, the highest price
since November 2011. Shanghai-based Sina forecast sales of as
much as  $180 million  for the third quarter, compared with the
average $165.6 million average of nine analysts compiled by
Bloomberg. Its second-quarter adjusted profit of 21 cents per
share compared with the 12-cent analysts’ mean projection.  At least 10 analysts, including Piyush Mubayi at Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., yesterday  lifted  their price estimates for
Sina’s shares.  NQ’s American depositary receipts surged to $19.51, the
highest since its initial public offering in May 2011.  The Beijing-based company raised its 2013 revenue estimate
to as much as $188 million from its prior forecast of up to $184
million. The average projection of five analysts in a Bloomberg
survey was $182 million. Second-quarter profit also exceeded
analysts’ mean estimate.  Renren Jumps  Renren, owner of a social networking website, soared to
$4.58, the highest level since June 2012. The Beijing-based
company is scheduled to report second-quarter earnings after
markets close today.  Baidu, which owns  China ’s most-used web search engine, has
been talking with Renren for two months to buy its Nuomi unit,
according to a report on Sohu.com’s website yesterday.  “The driver for Renren’s gain should be speculation that
it will sell its Nuomi unit to Baidu, which is positive,” Andy Yeung, an Internet stock analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. in New
York, said by phone. “There is also expectation that Renren
earnings will do better because the second-quarter results of
other Internet companies showed that the overall advertising
market is improving.”  An e-mail to Renren’s public relations department seeking
comment wasn’t immediately returned. Baidu’s Beijing-based
spokesman Kaiser Kuo declined to comment on the report by phone.  Baidu’s ADRs climbed 3.5 percent to $141.53, the highest
since April 2012.  Phoenix Soars  E-Commerce China Dangdang Inc. (DANG)  soared 11 percent to $11.71,
rising the most since June 25. The Beijing-based book retailer
is scheduled to report second-quarter results before U.S.
markets open tomorrow.  Phoenix New Media Ltd. (FENG) , an Internet and television news
outlet, surged 7.4 percent to $8.83, the highest level since
August 2011. Net income at the Beijing-based company jumped 120
percent in April-June while sales increased 29 percent to 364.2
million  yuan  ($59.5 million), it said in a Aug. 12 statement.
That exceeded its own forecast of 341 million yuan given in May.  Vipshop, a Guangzhou-based online fashion retailer, tumbled
6.8 percent to $45.36, trimming its 2013 gain to 154 percent.  Negative News  Citron Research wrote the number of users on Vipshop’s
website declined 20 percent in June from a month earlier in a
Twitter post yesterday, attaching a note by Macquarie Group
Ltd., which cited figures from data provider iResearch.  “Given the good run Vipshop had this year, investors would
sell for profit on any negative news,” Jeff Papp, a senior
analyst at Oberweis Asset Management Inc., which manages $700
million of assets, said by phone from Lisle,  Illinois . “It’s
hard to extrapolate anything from just one-month data which
accuracy we aren’t sure about.”  Jeremy Peruski at ICR Inc., Vipshop’s external investor
relations manager, couldn’t be reached by phone. Andrew Left,
the founder of Citron Research, confirmed the post by phone
yesterday, adding that he started a short position on Vipshop.  Sohu’s shares slid 5 percent to $61.32 in New York,
dropping the most in two weeks, after news website DoNews said
negotiations to sell its search engine to  Qihoo 360 Technology
Co. (QIHU)  ended.  Eric Yuan, Sohu’s media manager, couldn’t be reached by
phone after business hours in Beijing. Lee Roth, Qihoo’s
external public relations manager at The Piacente Group Inc.,
didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index in  Hong Kong  advanced
2.6 percent to 10,185.55 after a four-day rally. The  Shanghai
Composite Index (SHCOMP)  climbed 0.2 percent to 2,106.16, the highest
level since June 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  