-- SingTel to Keep Australian Optus Satellite Unit After Review
-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y   a n d   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2013-08-13T14:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/singtel-to-keep-australian-optus-satellite-unit-after-review.html
Singapore Telecommunications Ltd. (ST) ,
Southeast Asia’s biggest phone company, plans to keep its
Australian satellite unit after concluding a strategic review.  “Based on the review, SingTel is committed to growing and
investing in the satellite business,” the company said in a
statement yesterday.  SingTel was seeking more than A$2 billion ($1.8 billion)
for the Optus Satellite unit, which provides television, radio,
phone, Internet data and military signals to Australia,  New
Zealand  and the Antarctic, people familiar with the matter said
in July. The company was considering an initial public offering
of the business after drawing lower-than-expected bids, people
with knowledge of the process said last week.  Optus Satellite attracted bidders including  Intelsat SA (I) ,
the Luxembourg-based commercial satellite operator, people
familiar with the matter said Aug. 9. A group that included
Measat Global Bhd., TPG Capital and  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  dropped
out of bidding and signaled to SingTel that it wasn’t willing to
pay more than $1.7 billion, according to a person with knowledge
of the deliberations.  SingTel bought the business as part of the takeover of
Optus, Australia’s second-largest phone company, in 2001. In
March, SingTel said it was considering options for Optus
Satellite. It hasn’t reported separate earnings figures for the
unit since the 2001 takeover.  Facing slowing sales in Australia and Singapore, SingTel is
seeking new sources of growth. Divesting Optus Satellite, which
had revenue of A$319 million in the year ended March 2012, would
help finance the S$2 billion ($1.6 billion) of acquisitions that
SingTel is planning.  With five spacecraft in orbit, Optus Satellite broadcasts
signals to more than two million Australian households and
companies and will launch a sixth satellite this year, according
to SingTel. Its customers include state-owned Australian
Broadcasting Corp., the Foxtel joint venture between  Telstra
Corp. (TLS)  and  News Corp ., and Australia’s Department of Defence.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net ;
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  