-- SingTel Earnings Beat Estimates After Cutting Costs
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2013-08-14T01:30:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/singtel-earnings-beat-estimates-after-cutting-costs.html
Singapore Telecommunications Ltd. (ST) ,
Southeast Asia’s biggest phone company, posted first-quarter
profit that beat analyst estimates after cutting costs at its
Optus unit in  Australia  and higher earnings from associates.  Net income  rose to S$1.01 billion ($797 million) in the
three months to June compared with S$945.3 million a year
earlier, SingTel, as the Singapore-based company is known, said
in a statement today. Profit was projected at S$928.7 million,
according to the average of three  analysts’ estimates  compiled
by Bloomberg. Sales dropped 5.3 percent to S$4.29 billion.  SingTel plans to spend S$2 billion on acquisitions as
growth in wireless earnings slows in  Singapore  and other
countries. The company’s expansion into faster-growing Southeast
Asian markets, including a stake in Thailand’s  Advance Info
Service Pcl (ADVANC) , is limiting the impact of slowing growth at Indian
associate  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI)  after a price war.  “Our regional mobile associates have continued to perform
well,” Chief Executive Officer Chua Sock Koong said today. “We
are also pleased to see some pricing discipline returning to the
Indian mobile market.”  The carrier owns stakes in Indonesia’s PT Telekomunikasi
Selular and  Globe Telecom Inc. (GLO)  in the  Philippines .  Group revenue will decline by a “mid-single digit level”
and earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization
will fall at a “low single digit level,” the company said
today. SingTel previously forecast little changed sales.  Optus Cuts  SingTel shares fell 0.8 percent to S$3.79 at 9:23 a.m. in
Singapore. The stock has climbed 15 percent this year,  compared 
with a 2.4 percent advance in the benchmark Straits Times Index.  First-quarter Ebitda at  Optus , Australia’s second-largest
phone company, rose 4.9 percent to A$572 million ($520 million).  While revenue at Optus declined 5.3 percent, the company
cut operating expenses 9 percent on lower selling and
administrative costs. The unit in May agreed to pay A$649
million for an allocation of airwaves to build up its wireless
network to attract more customers from  Telstra Corp. (TLS)  and other
competitors.  Telstra, Australia’s largest phone company, last week
posted a 12 percent gain in full-year profit as a surge in new
users for its fourth-generation network boosted its share of the
mobile phone market to almost 50 percent.  SingTel yesterday said it will retain the Optus Satellite
unit after completing a review of the business.  Singapore Gains  Revenue from its mobile business in Singapore rose 7
percent to S$506 million, helped by higher data contribution and
a cut in handset subsidies, the company said.  The profit contribution from regional associates climbed 14
percent to S$552 million in the quarter on higher results from
Indonesia, Thailand and India, the company said.  The pretax earnings contribution from Bharti gained 20
percent to S$113 million on growth in data.  SingTel owns all of its Singapore and Australian phone
businesses in addition to minority stakes in other mobile
operators giving it 477 million customers across 25 countries in
 Asia ,  Africa  and Australia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  