-- Ski Condos in Colorado Portend Aussie’s Worst Ahead
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2013-08-13T04:09:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/ski-condos-in-colorado-portend-aussie-s-worst-ahead-currencies.html
Sydney native Greg Gibbs bought his
first Breckenridge,  Colorado  ski condo in 2011 and a second this
January, predicting the end of a record period of strength for
 Australia ’s dollar. The Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
strategist could hardly have timed it better.  Gibbs, who sold his house in Sydney and moved to  Singapore 
last year, bought the first property just two months before the
Australian dollar climbed to a record $1.1081 in July 2011. This
year, the Aussie has slumped 12 percent to 91.28 U.S. cents at 1
p.m. in  Tokyo  as the South Pacific nation’s economy struggles
while the U.S. real estate market recovers.  “When I left Australia, I had to decide where I was going
to invest, and thought the Aussie, from a long-term perspective,
was around its peak and the housing market in the U.S. was
turning the corner,” Gibbs, 47, said in a phone interview. “I
love the mountains and skiing and thought  Breckenridge  was a
good fit for me.”  Gibbs sees even more losses ahead for Australia’s dollar,
estimating that it will weaken to 83 U.S. cents by year-end.
That ties him with  RBC Capital Markets  as the most-bearish
forecaster in a Bloomberg survey of more than 50 strategists.  Biggest Loser  Australia’s dollar is the biggest loser among major
currencies this year, tumbling 9.9 percent against a basket of
nine peers including the euro, yen and pound, according to
Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Indexes. It’s headed for its
biggest annual decline based on those indexes since it tumbled
11 percent in 1990.  Pacific Investment Management Co. and BlackRock Inc., which
manage almost $6 trillion combined, say the Aussie is either
overvalued or due for further losses as the country adjusts to
the end of a mining-investment boom and a slowdown in  China ,
which buys a third of its merchandise exports.  The currency’s record 10-month run above $1 ended in May
after the  Reserve Bank  of Australia cut its main  interest rate 
by a quarter-percentage point to 2.75 percent to stoke growth.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  accelerated the
Aussie’s decline when two weeks later he signaled a willingness
to dial back U.S. monetary stimulus. RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens 
lowered borrowing costs again last week, taking the  benchmark
rate  to a record 2.5 percent, from 4.75 percent in 2011.  Economic ‘Transition’  Australian policy makers are struggling to revive
confidence among consumers and non-mining businesses that are
crucial to fill the growth deficit left by a weaker resources
sector. There’s a 65 percent chance that the Sydney-based
central bank will lower its benchmark rate again by year-end,
data compiled by Bloomberg based on swaps trading show.  “I suspect the RBA can cut again in November if they don’t
get the requisite transition from growth led by mining-sector
investment to other parts of the economy,”  Stephen Miller , a
Sydney-based  money manager  at BlackRock, which oversees $3.9
trillion, said in an Aug. 6 interview.  He estimates the local dollar will fall toward 80 cents
over the next nine months as China slows and the U.S. economy
recovers. Analysts have cut their Aussie estimates in six of
eight months this year to keep pace with the drop so far.  Since predicting it would end the year at $1.05 on Jan. 31,
the median estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg has fallen
15 percent to 89 cents. That’s the sharpest cut among 51
currency pairs after the South African rand versus the
greenback.  Record Shorts  Futures traders are the most  pessimistic  ever on
Australia’s dollar. The difference in the number of wagers by
 hedge funds  and other large speculators on a decline in the
currency compared with those on a gain -- so-called net shorts -
- was a record 76,779 on Aug. 6, data from the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission in  Washington  show.  As recently as December, traders had the most-ever bullish
bets on the Aussie.  An index of Australian  services  contracted at the fastest
pace in four years in July while retail sales were stagnant in
June, reports showed this month. Gauges for  manufacturing  and
 construction  have indicated declining activity for more than a
year, while official data show the  unemployment rate  in July
held at the highest level since 2009.  Australian business confidence slumped to an eight-month
low, according to a National Australia Bank Ltd. survey released
today of more than 400 companies taken July 25-31.  The domestic slump is compounded by signs that China,
Australia’s largest trading partner, is decelerating. The Asian
country’s potential growth rate has fallen to a range of 7
percent to 8 percent, the government said Aug. 1. Last year’s
7.8 percent  expansion  was the slowest since 1999.  China Headwinds  “Probably the biggest global headwind for Australia is the
current slowdown in Chinese growth,” said Adam Bowe, a Sydney-based money manager at Pimco, manager of the world’s largest
bond fund -- the $262 billion  Total Return Fund. (PTTRX)  “The
currency’s recent fall is definitely a welcome relief for many
sectors of the economy, but it’s still elevated and at a level
that’s restraining activity, not stimulating activity.”  A June 20 International Monetary Fund report declared the
Australian dollar to be overvalued by 5 percent to 15 percent.  The U.S. currency has gained 3.6 percent this year,
according to the Bloomberg  Dollar Index , which tracks the
greenback against 10 other major currencies.  Growth in manufacturing and services in the world’s largest
economy have pushed the U.S.  unemployment rate  to its lowest
since 2008, while sales of new homes rose in June to the highest
level in five years.  Slide Reprieve  “The big downshift for the Aussie dollar has probably
ended,” Alvin Pontoh, a Singapore-based strategist at TD
Securities, said in an Aug. 7 interview. “The RBA doesn’t feel
a sense of urgency to lower the currency further” through rate
cuts, he said.  TD Securities predicts the Aussie will trade at 89 U.S.
cents by Dec. 31, down from a $1.04 forecast at the end of
January, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Gibbs said yesterday that Australia’s dollar may pare its
recent losses and climb to as high as 95 U.S. cents over the
next month or so, before resuming its slide toward year-end.  The strategist began his property hunt toward the end of
2010, when the Aussie was approaching parity with the  U.S.
dollar  for the first time since it was freely floated in 1983.  By May 2011, when he was ready to buy, it had breached
$1.10, allowing him to discard an initial plan to buy in
 Keystone , Colorado, and instead buy a $425,000, two-bedroom
condo in Breckenridge, where real-estate data service  Zillow
Inc.  estimates median  home prices  are more than twice the
national average. Early this year, Gibbs says he spent “very
close” to $1 million on his second apartment.  “The Aussie is now taking over its previous role of being
a shock absorber for the Australian economy,” said Gibbs, who
says the currency may drop to as low as 80 U.S. cents. “The
 U.S. economy  is now considerably healed from the financial
bubble in 2008 and is poised to perform better over the medium
term, and that will help the U.S. dollar strengthen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  