-- Soccer Body Echoes IOC by Asking Russia to Clarify Anti-Gay Law
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-08-13T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/soccer-body-echoes-ioc-in-asking-russia-to-clarify-anti-gay-law.html
Soccer’s world governing body
echoed the  International Olympic Committee  by calling on Russia
to clarify an anti-gay law that has led to protests against the
host of next year’s Winter Olympics and the 2018  World Cup .  Russian President  Vladimir Putin  last month signed a law
enacting a ban and maximum fine of 1 million rubles ($30,438) on
“propaganda of non-traditional sexual relations” among minors.
Foreign citizens charged under the law face 15 days in jail and
deportation.  On Aug. 1, Russian Sports Minister Vitaly Mutko said the
law will be enforced during the 2014  Winter Games , which start
Feb. 7 in the Black Sea resort of Sochi. Four years later,
Russia will host the soccer World Cup, international sport’s
most-watched event.  FIFA, the Zurich, Switzerland-based federation that governs
soccer and is responsible for the World Cup, said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday that it “has asked the Russian authorities
for clarification and more details on this new law.”  The World Cup is worth about $5 billion through sales of
television and marketing rights, as well as income generated by
the local hosts for the quadrennial event.  “FIFA expects that all guests in a FIFA World Cup host
country, whether they are fans, players, officials or media,
experience a great FIFA World Cup irrespective of their sexual
orientation,” the organization said.  The Russian law has sparked global controversy, from calls
for a boycott of the Sochi Games by British actor Stephen Fry to
gay bars in the U.S. dumping Russian vodka. U.S. President
 Barack Obama  criticized the law, saying he had “no patience for
countries that try to treat gays or lesbians or transgender
persons in ways that intimidate them or are harmful to them.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  