-- Stocks in Switzerland Advance for Third Day; GAM Rallies
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-08-13T07:42:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/stocks-in-switzerland-advance-for-third-day-gam-rallies.html
Stocks in  Switzerland  advanced,
extending a two-month high for the  Swiss Market Index (SMI) , as
investors awaited reports that may show increases in U.S. retail
sales and German investor confidence.  GAM Holding AG, the asset manager that split from Julius
Baer Group Ltd. almost four years ago, rallied 7.1 percent as
first-half profit more than tripled. Geberit AG slid 4.2 percent
as the maker of toilets and bathroom piping posted first-half
sales and earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization below some analysts’ estimates. Schindler Holding
AG lost 4 percent as first-half net income fell 39 percent.  The SMI rose 0.5 percent to 8,041.51 at 9:40 a.m. in
Zurich. The equity benchmark has surged 18 percent so far this
year as central banks around the world maintained stimulus
measures. The broader Swiss Performance Index also increased 0.5
percent today.  The volume of shares changing hands in SMI companies was 24
percent lower than the average of the last 100 days, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  A report at 8:30 a.m. in  Washington  may show U.S.  retail
sales  climbed for a fourth consecutive month in July, increasing
0.3 percent, according to the median forecast of 81 economists
in a Bloomberg News survey.  In  Germany , a report at 11 a.m. in  Frankfurt  may show
investor confidence in Europe’s biggest economy increased in
August. The ZEW Center for European Economic Research’s index of
investor and analyst expectations, which aims to predict
economic developments six months in advance, rose to 39.9 from
36.3 in July, according to the median forecast of economists in
a Bloomberg News survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  