-- Sugar Rises to Six-Week High on Brazil Cold Scare; Cocoa Falls
-- B y   A l e x   P a s h l e y
-- 2013-08-13T10:47:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/sugar-rises-to-six-week-high-on-brazil-cold-scare-cocoa-falls.html
Sugar rose to a six-week high in New
York on concerns colder weather in leading producer  Brazil  could
further damage this year’s crop. Cocoa declined.  Sugar cane areas in Brazil’s center-south, the country’s
main producing region, will get colder weather this week, with
temperatures falling Aug. 15, MDA Weather Services based in
Gaithersburg,  Maryland , said in an e-mailed report yesterday.
Frost isn’t forecast, it said. Freezing temperatures last month
damaged some of this year’s crop, according to Cepea, a
University of Sao Paulo research group.  “The weather in Brazil has captured the sugar market’s
attention again with forecasts for some rainy, cool weather in
the upcoming period,” Judy Ganes-Chase, president of J. Ganes
Consulting LLC, said in a report e-mailed yesterday. “This
could cause some further disruptions to the harvest, but I don’t
see it as a need to wave bull flags yet.”  Raw sugar for October delivery rose 0.5 percent to 17.24
cents a pound by 6:32 a.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in New York. The
price gained to 17.29 cents a pound, the highest since June 27.
White sugar for delivery in October climbed 1 percent to $505 a
metric ton on NYSE Liffe in London.  “The frost reduces the yield of the sugar cane and so
people might anticipate a reduction in output,” Julien
Benichou, a broker at Starsupply Renewables SA, said by phone
today from Nyon,  Switzerland . “It’s not a massive issue.”  Money managers are betting on lower sugar prices. Large and
small speculators excluding  index funds  were net-short by 78,724
contracts in the week ended Aug. 6, according to U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission  data  compiled by Bloomberg. They were
betting on higher prices a year earlier.  Ethanol  “The speculative community remains fairly short and when
we are above the 17 cents a pound mark, that strength is due to
short-covering activity as we have more ethanol produced than
sugar at the moment,” Benichou said, referring to the closing
of bets on lower prices.  Cocoa for December delivery fell 0.9 percent to $2,476 a
ton on ICE. Cocoa for September delivery fell 0.9 percent to
1,641 pounds ($2,536) a ton on NYSE Liffe. Prices gained 8.3
percent in  New York  last week on concerns dry weather will
damage the next crop in  Ivory Coast , the top producer.  “The cocoa market has a long history of having these
volatile spikes on weather concerns and typically at the
slightest hint of rain the market cascades quickly back down,
sometimes posting losses at a faster speed than which it
climbed,” Ganes-Chase said. “The dryness may delay the
arrivals of the new crop, but it does not necessarily mean yet
that production will be reduced.”  Arabica coffee for December delivery rose 0.2 percent to
$1.2635 a pound in New York. Robusta coffee for delivery in
November fell 1 percent to $1,936 a ton in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Pashley in London at 
 apashley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  