-- U.S. Company Credit Swaps Hold; Burlington Northern Sells Bonds
-- B y   S c o t t   H a r r i s o n
-- 2013-08-13T21:12:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/u-s-company-credit-swaps-hold-burlington-northern-plans-bonds.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk held as a report showed retail sales rose for a fourth
month. Burlington Northern  Santa Fe  LLC issued $1.5 billion in
its first bond offering in five months.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, decreased
0.2 basis point to a mid-price of 75.3 basis points as of 5:07
p.m. in New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Investors are looking to economic data to assess when the
Federal Reserve will begin tapering its $85 billion in monthly
bond purchases, which have supported credit markets. Retail
sales in July increased 0.2 percent after a 0.6 percent gain in
June, according to Commerce Department figures issued today.  “Retail sales were more or less in line,” Michael Kraft,
a senior portfolio manager at Vanderbilt Asset Management in New
York, said in a telephone interview. “Right now folks are
looking out for inflation figures later this week. Inflation has
been relatively tame, but if there’s an indication it’s picking
up, there may be pressure on the Fed to begin tapering.”  The credit-swaps index typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Fed Steps  Fed policy makers have indicated the central bank may begin
curtailing asset purchases if economic growth meets its
forecasts. Atlanta Fed President Dennis Lockhart, who has backed
the central bank’s bond buying, said today that policy makers
may start reducing the stimulus program at any of their next few
meetings amid an “uneven performance” by the economy.  “A decision to proceed -- whether it is in September,
October, or December -- ought to be thought of as a cautious
first step,” Lockhart, who doesn’t vote on monetary policy this
year, said in a speech in Atlanta.  Payrolls have increased an average 192,000 a month this
year through July compared with 182,750 in 2012, according to
the Labor Department. The jobless rate in July fell to 7.4
percent, the lowest since December 2008 and down from 7.8
percent at the end of last year.  Burlington Issue  Burlington Northern, the railroad that  Warren Buffett ’s
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  bought in 2010, issued $800 million of
3.85 percent, 10-year notes that yield 117 basis points more
than similar-maturity Treasuries, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Fort Worth, Texas-based company also sold $700
million of 5.15 percent, 30-year securities at 140 basis points
more than benchmarks.  Proceeds will be used for general corporate purposes, which
may include capital expenditures and debt repayment, the company
said in a regulatory filing today.  The default premium on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index, a measure of speculative-grade corporate bond risk,
fell 0.6 basis point to 381.1 basis points, Bloomberg prices
show.  Bond issuers in the media and entertainment, technology and
health-care businesses in the U.S. accounted for 13 of this
year’s 31 defaults through July, according to a report by
Standard & Poor’s.  “The three sectors’ current negative biases are
significantly lower than their long-term averages,”  Diane Vazza , head of global fixed income research at S&P, said in the
statement released today.  The average extra yield investors demand to hold
investment-grade corporate debt rather than similar-maturity
Treasuries held at 128.2 basis points, according to Bloomberg
data. The measure for speculative-grade bonds tightened 5.4
basis points to 561.9 basis points.  High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and less than BBB- at S&P.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Harrison in New York at 
 sharrison52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  