-- U.S. Watchdog to Push Greater Disclosure in Audit Reports
-- B y   D a v e   M i c h a e l s
-- 2013-08-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/u-s-watchdog-to-push-greater-disclosure-in-audit-reports.html
Auditors could be required to better
explain how they graded a company’s financial statements under a
proposal that would trigger the first change in 70 years to how
auditors report their findings.  The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board is scheduled
to vote today on a plan meant to amplify the information
investors receive from the auditor’s report. The PCAOB has
studied ways to overhaul such reports since the 2008 financial
crisis.  The PCAOB has said it could seek to force auditors to
provide a supplemental report explaining their findings.
Alternately, the board said it could seek to make audit firms
provide a few sentences highlighting the most critical parts of
the financial statements.  “The concern coming out of the financial crisis was that
auditors had more information into judgment calls and business
risks than they conveyed in their opinion,” said Daniel L. Goelzer, a partner at Baker & McKenzie LLP and former PCAOB
member. “Some insight from the auditor about what the
challenging part of the audit was and what the risks are would
provide some additional insight. The question is, at what
cost.”  SEC Approval  The board’s vote will open a period of public comment
during which audit firms, public companies and investors lobby
to shape a final standard, which would have to be approved by
the Securities and Exchange Commission. The PCAOB was created by
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and sets standards for auditors
of U.S.-registered firms.  Some investors have pushed for more specific information
about an auditor’s findings, which are disclosed in a brief,
one-page opinion that states whether a company passed or failed
the audit. Groups such as the Council of Institutional Investors
support requiring auditors to provide a separate narrative that
explains the company’s accounting judgments and estimates.  The largest accounting firms, represented by the Center for
Audit Quality, have pressed the PCAOB to maintain the current
reporting model while better explaining the roles of audit firms
and management in preparing financial statements.  ‘Emphasis Paragraphs’  Instead of a separate narrative, the PCAOB could propose a
requirement to use “emphasis paragraphs,” or disclosures of
judgments behind accounting estimates and areas with measurement
uncertainty.  “I suspect they are more likely to go down the emphasis
paragraph road because it really would be challenging for
auditors to write a free-form document with respect to each
audit,” Goelzer said in a phone interview.  Lynn E. Turner, a former SEC chief accountant, said
auditors are already allowed under current standards to
emphasize particular areas of the audit within their report. The
problem, he said, is auditors have instead chosen to issue
reports with boiler-plate language that omits those questions.  “We have a track record of auditors being aware of serious
problems and not saying anything about it,” Turner said. “Any
new standard would have to be very specific about what the
auditor would have to disclose if they knew about it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  