-- U.S. Arrests Seven in $140 Million Penny Stock Fraud Case
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-08-13T18:43:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/u-s-arrests-two-in-140-million-penny-stock-fraud-case.html
Seven people accused of taking part
in a $140 million international penny stock fraud that U.S.
prosecutors say is one of the largest in history were arrested.  Federal agents arrested six individuals in the U.S. accused
of participating in a scheme to inflate the values of at least a
dozen worthless stocks and market them to investors,  Brooklyn 
U.S. Attorney Loretta E. Lynch said today. A seventh defendant
was arrested in Canada, she said.  The stocks were sold to victims in as many as 35 countries,
prosecutors said. Some victims were swindled a second time
through a separate scheme in which investors were told they
would pay an “advance fee” to recoup their losses, according
to prosecutors.  “The defendants used our securities markets as a platform
from which to run elaborate fraudulent schemes to victimize
unsuspecting investors across the globe,” Lynch said in a
statement. “Where others saw citizens of the world, the
defendants saw a pool of potential marks.”  As many as nine individuals were involved in the
conspiracy, according to a 24-count indictment filed Aug. 7. Two
of the defendants, Canadian citizens Gregory Curry and Sandy Winick, who prosecutors said orchestrated the scheme, are still
at large, said Zugiel Soto, a spokeswoman for Lynch.  Minimal Assets  The government said the scheme took place from 2008 to July
2013. Stocks included Winick’s holding company  Blackout Media
Corp. (BKMP) , along with  Resource Group International (RSGR) , Imusic Worldwide
Inc.,  WGI Holdings Inc. (WGIH) ,  Talisman Holdings Inc. (TMHO) ,  Nikron
Technologies Inc. (NKRN) ,  Tal-Cap Inc. (TAL) ,  RainEarth Inc. (RNER) ,  Sync2 Networks
Corp., (SYNW)   MASS Petroleum (MASP) , Liquid Gold International and  Foy
Johnston Inc. (FOYJ) , according to the indictment.  Known as “file cabinet businesses,” the companies had
minimal assets, were thinly traded, and were owned or controlled
by the defendants, according to prosecutors.  The scheme involved the creation of phony consulting
businesses and law firms, the release of fake press releases in
connection with the penny stocks, and operation of call centers
in Vietnam, Thailand and Canada, according to the indictment.  Winick, believed to be in Thailand, was sued along with
Blackout Media Corp. by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission in June 2009 over similar allegations.  The SEC, which won a $4 million judgment in the case in
September 2012, alleged that Winick ran a scheme from April 2002
to May 2004 in which his company illegally sold securities in 59
spinoff subsidiaries without meeting registration requirements.  ‘Panama Joe’  Some of the defendants involved in the scheme went by a
variety of nicknames including “Robin Cheer,” “Michael
East,” “Maurizio,” and “Panama Joe,” according to the
indictment. They tried to cover up the crime by using disposable
phones to communicate and using multiple accounts at different
brokerage firms held by offshore entities, prosecutors said.  “By tricking victims into paying advance fees with the
promise of realizing larger gains or recovering losses, some of
the defendants dipped into the pockets of those they had
betrayed -- not once, but twice,” George Venizelos, head of the
FBI’s New York office, said in a statement.  Defendants are charged with crimes including securities
fraud, conspiracy and  wire fraud , among others. They face
sentences of as many as 20 years in prison for counts of
conspiracy to commit wire fraud, substantive wire fraud and
substantive securities fraud.  The defendants arrested are scheduled to appear later today
in courts in Brooklyn, New York, Los Angeles, Miami and Tucson,
Arizona, according to prosecutors.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Winick, 13-cr-00452, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York federal court at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  