-- Mubadala Said to Be in $1 Bln Talks for Batista’s Assets
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2013-08-13T20:17:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/mubadala-said-to-be-in-1-bln-talks-for-batista-s-assets.html
Mubadala Development Co., the Abu
Dhabi sovereign-wealth fund, is in talks to buy some of the
assets of former Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista  for about $1
billion, two people with direct knowledge of the matter said.  The negotiations are for stakes in oil producer  OGX
Petroleo (OGXP3)  & Gas Participacoes SA, MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA
and  LLX Logistica SA (LLXL3) ’s Acu port in  Rio de Janeiro  state, said
the people, who asked not to be identified because the
discussions are private. Mubadala is seeking international or
local companies as partners on the deal, the people said.  Batista’s AUX gold business in  Colombia  is already being
used as collateral for $1.5 billion he owes Mubadala after the
fund converted a preferred equity investment in the former
billionaire’s holding company, EBX Group Co., into debt last
month, one of the people said. That arrangement will probably
stay in place should a transaction involving the other Batista
holdings be completed, the person said.  “Mubadala remains in close discussions with EBX and a
number of interested parties, as EBX continues to restructure
its businesses,” Brian Lott, a Mubadala spokesman in  Abu Dhabi ,
said in a statement in response to questions. “We believe many
EBX assets have significant potential value for Mubadala and
other investors.”  Lott declined to comment when asked about specific assets
being discussed.  Shares Rise  LLX  rose  17 percent to 1.29 reais at 5:07 p.m. in  Sao
Paulo . OGX climbed 4.7 percent and MMX gained 3.6 percent.  Mubadala will buy a stake in state-owned Dubai Aluminum Co.
to merge the United Arab Emirates’ two aluminum smelters and
create a $15 billion joint venture, a person with knowledge of
the plan said in June.  EBX, based in Rio de Janeiro, declined in an e-mail to
comment on asset negotiations.  Batista, whose stakes in the assets involved in the talks
total about $1.85 billion, is raising cash after his estimated
fortune fell from $34.5 billion in March of last year to less
than $1 billion after OGX missed production targets and
triggered a sell-off of his companies’ shares and bonds.  He wrote in an opinion piece last month in Valor Economico
newspaper that he would pay back anyone who has loaned him
money.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  