-- HUD Says It’s Unclear If FHA Can Back Loans Issued After Seizure
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2013-08-13T20:30:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/hud-says-it-s-unclear-if-fha-can-back-loans-issued-after-seizure.html
The U.S. Department of Housing and
Urban Development told lawmakers it couldn’t say if the  Federal
Housing Administration  would insure new mortgages in communities
including Richmond, California that propose to seize home loans
through eminent domain.  “Pending legal developments and possible further execution
of the plans in question, HUD does not know whether any new
mortgages which might be created would qualify for insurance by
the Federal Housing Administration,” Acting Assistant Secretary
Elliot Mincberg wrote in an Aug. 12 letter responding to
questions from members of Congress.  HUD’s comments came the week after the FHFA, which oversees
 Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac , said it would considering directing
the companies to stop doing business in communities that seize
mortgages through eminent domain to avert foreclosure by writing
down the principal balances.  The  Federal Housing Finance Agency  may also initiate legal
challenges to such actions, Alfred M. Pollard, the agency’s
general counsel, said in a memorandum.  “There is a rational basis to conclude that the use of
eminent domain by localities to restructure loans for borrowers
that are ‘underwater’ on their mortgages presents a clear threat
to the safe and sound operations of  Fannie Mae , Freddie Mac and
the Federal Home Loan Banks as provided in federal law,”
Pollard  wrote .  Blight Prevention  Richmond announced last month it is moving ahead with a
plan to seize mortgages. The public benefit of the seizures is
to fend off foreclosures that cause blight and create other
costs for the community, according to the plan’s supporters.  At least a dozen cities still dealing with the fallout of
worst slump in  home prices  since the Great Depression are
studying the eminent domain idea. Others include El Monte,
California, North Las Vegas, Nevada, and Irvington, New Jersey.
Communities such as San Bernardino County, California, and
Chicago abandoned such plans after considering them last year.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac last week joined investors
authorizing a lawsuit to stop Richmond from seizing loans.  The eminent domain program is advocated by Mortgage
Resolution Partners LLC, which would provide services and
arrange for private investment funds that would profit by buying
the loans for less than property values, and reworking them.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  