-- Mugabe Vows ‘Unabated’ Pace in Zimbabwe's Ownership Plan
-- B y   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2013-08-13T12:13:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/mugabe-vows-unabated-pace-in-zimbabwe-s-ownership-plan.html
President  Robert Mugabe  said his
drive to give black Zimbabweans greater control of the southern
African economy will continue “unabated” following his
“resounding” endorsement in the July 31 elections.  “The indigenization and empowerment drive will continue
unabated in order to ensure that indigenous Zimbabweans enjoy a
larger share of the country’s resources,” Mugabe said today in
a speech to members of the military in Harare, the capital.
“This is our final phase of implementing the ideals of the
liberation struggle.”  The nation’s only leader since independence, Mugabe
extended his 33-year rule in last month’s elections and his
Zimbabwe African National Union-Patriotic secured a two-thirds
parliamentary majority in polls which the opposition and local
observers said weren’t credible.  The government won’t compensate mining companies that are
forced to hand over a majority stake to black Zimbabweans or the
state, Saviour Kasukuwere, minister of youth development,
indigenization and empowerment, said on Aug. 6.  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS) ,  Impala Platinum Holdings
Ltd. (IMP) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and Standard Chartered Plc are among
companies that operate in the Zimbabwe.  Mugabe, 89, yesterday denied opposition claims that Zanu-PF
rigged the elections. Outgoing Prime Minister  Morgan Tsvangirai ,
who won 34 percent of the presidential vote, and his Movement
for Democratic Change party on Aug. 9 submitted a court
challenge in Harare against the results, saying 870,000 names
were duplicated on the voters’ roll.  Mugabe and Tsvangirai entered a coalition government under
an agreement brokered by the region’s political bloc, the
 Southern African Development Community , after disputed elections
in 2008.  “I also thank you most sincerely for bringing to an end
the unproductive inclusive government and restoring confidence
in the Zanu-PF government,” Mugabe said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Godfrey Marawanyika in Harare at 
 gmarawanyika@bloomberg.net ;
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  