-- Hungary Inflation Unexpectedly Slows on Food, Utilities
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2013-08-13T08:21:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/hungary-inflation-unexpectedly-slows-on-food-utilities.html
Hungarian inflation unexpectedly
slowed last month as food prices plunged and the government
extended utility-price cuts, widening the central bank’s room to
trim its record-low main  interest rate .  Consumer prices  rose 1.8 percent from a year earlier after
a 1.9 percent increase in June, the statistics office in
Budapest said today. The median estimate of 13 economists in a
Bloomberg survey was for a 2 percent increase. Prices fell 0.3
percent from June.  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank cut its benchmark rate for a 12th
month in July to a record 4 percent as inflation hovered near a
39-year low after government-mandated reductions in household
energy tariffs. Even as the economy continues to recover from a
2012 recession, policy makers have said they may reduce
borrowing costs by as much as 1 percentage point more with
inflation below their 3 percent target.  Energy-price cuts are “politically very popular in the run
up to parliamentary elections next April, plus it brings the
double whammy benefit of allowing the central bank to further
trip policy rates,” Tim Ash, chief emerging-market strategist
at  Standard Bank  in  London , said today by e-mail.  The forint weakened for a second day, falling 0.4 percent
to 298.49 per euro by 9:35 a.m. in Budapest and paring this
month’s gain to 0.4 percent.  Food prices plunged 1.4 percent from the previous month in
July, while household energy costs fell 0.4 percent. Cuts in the
price of bottled gas affected July’s data, while reductions in
the price of water, sewage and garbage collection will show up
in the August index, the statistics office said in a statement.  Core inflation , which strips out volatile items such as
energy costs, was 2.8 percent from a year earlier and 0.2
percent from June, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  