-- UPS Adds Two China Distribution Facilities as Asia Network Grows
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2013-08-13T14:25:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/ups-adds-two-china-distribution-facilities-as-asia-network-grows.html
United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) , which
gets about a quarter of its  revenue  from overseas, is adding two
distribution facilities in China, bolstering its operations
in the world’s most populous nation.  The contract logistics centers are in Shanghai and Chengdu
and add 117,000 square feet (10,870 square meters) of space,
Atlanta-based UPS said today in a statement. They are near major
airports and road networks, and will serve technology,
aerospace, retail and industrial manufacturers, UPS said.  Building a distribution network in China will enable UPS to
take advantage of growth that the World Bank projects will make
the Asian country the  largest economy by 2030 , displacing the
U.S. The facilities bring UPS’s total number in  China  to more
than 130, covering 87 cities.  “It’s about longer-term demand within China,” Jim Barber,
53, president of UPS International, said in an interview. “They
need goods and services, and logistics is a piece of that. Every
economy in the world is in a state of flux. Two new facilities
in an economy like China makes sense for us.”  The facilities will ship components for items such as
computers and smartphones to manufacturers throughout China and
 Asia , where they will be assembled into products that will then
be distributed back into the region or exported, Barber said.
Health-care, retail and aerospace products may also be handled,
he said.  The Chengdu distribution center is 47,000 square feet and
is less than three miles (4.8 kilometers) from the airport that
connects businesses in central and western China to the rest of
the world. The Shanghai facility is 70,000 square feet and is
UPS’s fourth in the area.  China’s gross domestic product is forecast to expand by 7.5
percent this year, making it one of the fastest-growing
economies, even though the rate has  decelerated  from more than
10 percent in 2010.  “If you look at the economies in the world, China still
has great growth to us,” Barber said. “Our investment is
different in each. We choose to invest when the time is right
and the supply chain is moving.’  UPS is the world’s largest package-delivery company, and
handles more than  16 million packages and envelopes per day .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in  Dallas  at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  