-- TV Azteca Tumbles on Index Removal as Salinas Feuds With Bolsa
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   L e v i n   a n d   N e w l e y   P u r n e l l
-- 2013-08-13T20:34:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/tv-azteca-tumbles-on-index-removal-as-salinas-feuds-with-bolsa.html
TV Azteca SAB, the Mexican
broadcaster controlled by billionaire  Ricardo Salinas , fell the
most in three months after the country’s exchange said the stock
would be removed from the benchmark index next month.  Azteca,  Mexico ’s biggest broadcaster after  Grupo Televisa
SAB (TLEVICPO) ,  fell  5.8 percent to 5.81 pesos in Mexico City trading, the
biggest one-day drop since April 24. The IPC index of 35 Mexican
companies rose 0.6 percent.  Salinas, 57, whose net worth is estimated at $10.8 billion,
sued the exchange last year after it said that another of his
companies, retail and banking company Grupo Elektra SAB, would
be removed from the index because of a methodology change. A
Mexico City judge temporarily blocked the exchange from applying
the change to Elektra, keeping it in the index.  Azteca’s retreat today is mainly due to the latest IPC
changes, Aldo Miranda, a trader at Intercam Casa de Bolsa SA in
Mexico City, said in an e-mailed response to questions.  “The name is not that liquid, so outflows have a bigger
impact,” he said.  Some investment funds buy shares in benchmark indexes to
try to replicate or beat their performance, so shifts in the
gauge can lead to inflows or outflows from the affected stocks.  Azteca is one of five companies leaving the market-capitalization weighted index as part of an annual review of the
gauge, according to the statement yesterday from the exchange,
Bolsa Mexicana de Valores SAB. Other companies slated for
removal include billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s precious metals miner,
Minera Frisco SAB, and three  homebuilders  whose shares have
tumbled following a government housing-policy shift.  Trading Volume  Dan McCosh, a spokesman for Mexico City-based TV Azteca,
declined to comment on the IPC removal. Roberto Gavaldon, a
spokesman for the stock exchange, said the decision reflects a
predetermined formula.  Azteca has fallen 31 percent this year. Its average daily
volume over the past six months was 3.3 million shares, 19th
among the IPC’s 35 companies, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The Bolsa has said its methodology changes last year were
part of efforts to refine the IPC. Members are selected based on
a  formula  that takes into account trading activity, market
capitalization and the percentage of shares that are freely
traded, according to the exchange.  Most of Elektra’s shares are held by Salinas, while others
are tied up by equity-swap contracts that allowed the company to
bet on its own shares, according to an annual report. Salinas is
the world’s 99th richest person, according to the  Bloomberg
Billionaires Index .  According to Elektra’s lawsuit last year, the changes were
tailored to assure its exit after an index-topping rally in
2011. The stock more than doubled that year, pushing its price
to 42 times trailing earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Newley Purnell in  New York  at 
 npurnell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  