-- Venezuela Names Third Central Bank President This Year
-- B y   A n a t o l y   K u r m a n a e v   a n d   C o r i n a   P o n s
-- 2013-08-14T04:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/venezuela-names-third-central-bank-president-this-year.html
Venezuela President  Nicolas Maduro 
appointed the third central bank president this year as Latin
America’s biggest  oil exporter  seeks to rein in the fastest
inflation among the world’s major economies.  Eudomar Tovar, a former central bank vice president and
head of state currency board, was nominated by Maduro and
approved by the National Assembly yesterday, the Information
Ministry said in an e-mailed statement.  “Tovar will give more coherence to economic decision-making because his vision is very close to that of Finance
Minister Nelson Merentes,”  Alejandro Grisanti , economist at
Barclays Plc, said by phone from  New York .  Tovar replaced Edmee Betancourt, who had served since April
22. No reason was given for her departure.  Tovar’s academic degrees in currencies, finances and
foreign trade compare to Betancourt’s training as industrial
engineer.  “Tovar has a good understanding of economic issues,” said
Jose Manuel Puente, public policy professor at the Institute of
Advanced Administrative Studies in Caracas. “He’s a pragmatic
and sober-headed man.”  ‘Pragmatic Camp’  The new appointment strengthens Merentes, Tovar’s former
boss at the  Finance Ministry  and central bank, while also
weakening Planning Minister  Jorge Giordani , the Marxist economic
architect of late President  Hugo Chavez ’s “Bolivarian
Revolution,” said  Asdrubal Oliveros , director of consultancy
Ecoanalitica.  Since becoming finance minister in April, Merentes started
new dollar auctions to companies and met more than 5,000
businessmen in a bid to damp world-beating inflation and reduce
shortages of staple goods such as sugar, toilet paper and meat.  Giordani has advocated greater state ownership of the
economy and stricter currency controls to combat the same
problems.  “Tovar’s appointment is a victory for the pragmatic camp
of the government,” Oliveros said in a telephone interview from
Caracas.  Venezuelan consumer prices accelerated 42.6 percent in July
from a year earlier, the fastest rate among 105 economies
tracked by Bloomberg, as dollar shortages cripple imports.  Stalling Economy  “His appointment is a positive sign, but I’ve seen no
country in  Latin America  change their central bank president
after just a few months,” Grisanti said. “It’s a sign of
institutional weakness.”  The $382 billion  economy  expanded 0.7 percent in the first
quarter, the slowest pace among major Latin American economies.
In the second quarter, gross domestic product likely shrank 0.5
percent, according to the median of seven economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  In a Twitter message yesterday, Maduro announced that he
had promoted Jose Khan to the presidency of the Cadivi currency
board, which distributes around $30 billion annually to
Venezuelan citizens and businesses under the decade-long
currency control system.  A central bank spokeswoman, who requested she not be named
in accordance with official policy, had no comment.  Venezuela ’s five-year credit-default swaps, contracts
protecting holders of the nation’s debt against non-payment,
fell 137 basis points, or 1.37 percentage point, to 899 basis
points, the third-highest level in the world after Argentina and
 Greece , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The yield on the government’s benchmark 9.25 percent dollar
bonds due in 2027 fell two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point to 11.40 percent yesterday in New York, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The price rose 0.1 cent on the dollar to
85.10 cents.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anatoly Kurmanaev in Caracas at 
 akurmanaev1@bloomberg.net ;
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  