-- Vipshop Sinks as Citron’s Post Predicts ‘Major Decline’
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-08-13T21:15:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/vipshop-sinks-as-citron-s-post-predicts-major-decline-.html
Vipshop Holdings Ltd. (VIPS) , a Chinese
online fashion retailer, tumbled in  New York  after Citron
Research wrote in a Twitter post that the number of users on the
website declined and shares may slump more than 50 percent.  Vipshop traffic “falls off a cliff,” Citron posted on
 Twitter  today, attaching a note from Macquarie Group Ltd., which
cited data from iResearch saying users fell 20 percent in June
from a month earlier. “Stock should go back to 20’s easy. Scary
for shareholders. Major decline,” short-seller Citron said.  American depositary receipts of Guangzhou-based Vipshop
plunged 6.8 percent to $45.36 at the close in New York, the
biggest retreat since June 20.  Trading volume  was almost triple
the average of the past 90 days.  Vipshop, which sells branded fashion online at discounts,
surged 154 percent this year, compared with a 1.8 percent
decline on the Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded Chinese stocks in the U.S. Deutsche Bank AG cut its
 recommendation  for the stock to hold from buy on May 27, citing
intensifying competition in the Internet flash sales market.  “Given the good run Vipshop had this year, investors would
sell for profit on any negative news,” Jeff Papp, a senior
analyst at Oberweis Asset Management Inc., which manages $700
million of assets, said by phone from Lisle,  Illinois . “The
monthly traffic growth figure cited by Citron is just one piece
of information from a data provider without mentioning the
company fundamentals. It’s hard to extrapolate anything from
just one-month data which accuracy we aren’t sure about.”  Jeremy Peruski at ICR Inc., Vipshop’s external investor
relations manager, couldn’t be reached by phone. Andrew Left,
the founder of Citron Research, confirmed the post by phone,
adding that he started a short position on Vipshop.  Short sellers sell securities they don’t own to buy them
later at a lower price.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  