-- Visteon Rises After Accord to Sell Venture Stake: Mover
-- B y   M e g a n   D u r i s i n
-- 2013-08-13T16:41:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/visteon-rises-after-accord-to-sell-venture-stake-mover.html
Visteon Corp. (VC)  shares rose the most
in more than nine months after the auto-parts supplier said it
will sell its stake in a Chinese venture for $1.25 billion to
focus on its automotive climate-control and electronics units.  Shares of the Van Buren Township, Michigan-based company
rose 5.3 percent to $72.67 at 12:40 p.m.  New York  time, after
gaining as much as 7.1 percent, the largest intraday increase
since Nov. 1. The stock gained 28 percent this year through
yesterday, compared with a 19 percent increase in the Russell
1000 Index.  Visteon said it will sell its half of an automotive
interior venture to partner  Huayu Automotive Systems Co. (600741)  along
with other interior assets for $1.25 billion. The supplier also
will pay $70 million to Huayu to gain majority control of
Yanfeng Visteon Automotive Electronics Co. The deals will
probably be completed by June 2015, Visteon said in a statement.  “You want to get out of the commodity businesses and be in
those where there’s some sort of proprietary technology,”  Kevin Tynan , a Bloomberg Industries auto analyst in Skillman,  New
Jersey , said in a phone interview. “That’s where you can
protect margins and protect prices a little bit better.”  Visteon will use most of the proceeds to buy back stock
until the end of 2015, Chief Executive Officer Tim Leuliette
said in the statement.  Visteon, spun off from  Ford Motor Co. (F)  in 2000, has tried to
dispose of lower-margin units to focus on faster-growing Asian
operations after exiting bankruptcy in 2010. Leuliette, 63,
formerly part of a bloc of Visteon  directors  who favored
revamping the company, became CEO last year after the company
failed to generate consistent profits.  Simplifying Visteon  Huayu Automotive is a unit of Shanghai Automotive Industry
Corp., parent company of SAIC Motor Corp.,  China ’s biggest
automaker.  “They’re marching down the path of simplifying the
structure of this company,” said Matthew Stover, a Boston-based
auto analyst with Guggenheim Partners, who rates Visteon as a
buy. “What they’ve decided to be core to them is their
electronics business.”  Rothschild Inc., Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Skadden,
Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP advised Visteon.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Megan Durisin in Southfield, Michigan at 
 mdurisin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  