-- Westpac Among Banks Said to Bid for Lloyds Australia Assets
-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y   a n d   N a r a y a n a n   S o m a s u n d a r a m
-- 2013-08-13T02:25:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/westpac-among-banks-said-to-signal-interest-in-lloyds-australia.html
Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) ,  National
Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  and  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)  are among banks
that made preliminary bids for  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) ’s
Australian assets, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  The indicative offers for Lloyds International Pty, which
includes its Capital Finance and BOS International units, were
due yesterday and the sale may fetch more than A$1 billion ($910
million), said the people, asking not to be identified because
the details are private.  Britain’s biggest mortgage lender, part-owned by the U.K.
government, is off-loading assets it no longer considers
essential as it shrinks its balance sheet after a government
bailout in 2008. Lloyds said on  June 20  it was making
“significant progress” in strengthening its capital position.
European banks are bolstering their balance sheets through asset
sales as they try to meet stricter capital rules.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. is advising Lloyds on the
potential sale, the people said. The banks’ interest was
reported earlier by the Australian Financial Review.  Supreet Thomas, a Sydney-based spokeswoman for Westpac,
said the bank wouldn’t comment on market speculation, as did
Meaghan Telford, a Melbourne-based spokeswoman for NAB. Lisa Jamieson, a Sydney-based spokeswoman for Macquarie, declined to
comment.  Loss Narrows  Lloyds International reported a loss of A$148.3 million in
2012, narrowing from a shortfall of A$1.2 billion the previous
year, according to filings with the Australian Securities &
Investments Commission. The division reduced assets by 24
percent to A$12.2 billion last year, according to the documents.  The Capital Finance unit, which provides retail, equipment
and commercial financing services, has more than A$6 billion in
assets and equity of more than A$2 billion, a person familiar
with the matter said July 5.  Lloyds, based in  London , was already selling a A$750
million package of about 12 to 14 loans it defines as “non-core” in  Australia , people familiar with the matter said in
July. It sold some distressed corporate loans to investors
backed by  KKR & Co. (KKR)  in November, and 809 million pounds ($1.2
billion) of real estate loans to a joint venture between Morgan
Stanley and  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  in June.  The U.K. government, which owns 39 percent of the bank, is
considering selling as much as 5 billion pounds of Lloyds shares
to money managers as soon as this month as a first step to
reducing its holding in the lender, a person with knowledge of
the plan said in July.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net ;
Narayanan Somasundaram in Sydney at 
 nsomasundara@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  