-- Whither China Seen in Australia as RBA Notes Slowdown: Economy
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-08-14T01:16:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/whither-china-seen-discerned-in-australia-as-rba-sees-slowdown.html
From his Manhattan office, Steven Englander looks to commentary from policy makers and executives
in Sydney, not Beijing, for the best take on  China’s economy .  “They get a direct, immediate view of China demand for
highly cyclical products and have an incentive to give it a
close read, so if they are sensing an extended slowdown I would
take their views seriously,” said Englander, 58, head of Group
of 10 currency strategy at Citigroup Inc. “It may be better to
have an accurate view of a limited but important segment of
Chinese demand, than an uncertain view of aggregate demand.”  Doubts over the accuracy of Chinese data focus attention on
readings and statements more than 3,500 miles south of Beijing,
to Australia, China’s biggest  iron-ore  supplier. The  Reserve
Bank  of Australia said Aug. 9 China’s growth isn’t likely to
“pick up much, if at all, in coming quarters,” while Prime
Minister  Kevin Rudd  has flagged the danger of a Chinese credit
crunch in a re-election pitch based on economic management.  China’s government said in June it will start an
investigation to ensure the accuracy of data filed by companies
as part of efforts to improve the reliability of statistics.  Li Keqiang , who became premier this year, said in 2007 that gross
domestic product figures were “man-made” and “for reference
only,” according to a WikiLeaks cable published in 2010.  Englander isn’t alone in looking to Australia to get a
reading on China. Frederic Neumann, co-head of Asian economics
at HSBC Holdings Plc in Hong Kong, said his team studies  iron-ore  exports, while Saul Eslake, chief Australia economist at
Bank of America Merrill Lynch in Melbourne, said he tracks what
mining executives say and monitors iron ore and coal shipments.  Diverging Gauges  Divergent indications on manufacturing underscore a lack of
clarity in the world’s second-largest economy’s direction. While
an official  Purchasing Manager’s Index (CPMINDX)  has held in a tight range
since October, a similar  gauge  published by HSBC and  Markit
Economics  shows wider swings. The government’s PMI also
contrasts with concern flagged by stocks, with the Shanghai
Composite Index down about 7 percent this year.  “You look at the equity market, you look at the way people
think about China’s economy, you look at economic growth, even
if you look at the official industrial production numbers, the
range has been a lot wider,” said  Ken Peng , senior economist at
BNP Paribas SA in Beijing. The government is trying “to create
a sense of stability and I think it does just the opposite. It
loses credibility,” he said.  Data Doubts  China’s export gains collapsed in May after a crackdown on
fake invoices used to disguise money flows that inflated data in
the first four months of the year. In July, China suspended the
release of industry-specific data from a monthly survey of
manufacturing purchasing managers, with an official saying
there’s limited time to analyze the large volume of responses.  “There is no smoking gun that suggests the numbers are
directly manipulated,” said HSBC’s Neumann. “They may probably
not be terribly good, all of them, but I wouldn’t say that
they’re systematically manipulated.”  Confusion about China’s growth goals was highlighted when
Finance Minister  Lou Jiwei  told reporters in Washington on July
11 that a pace as low as 6.5 percent may be tolerable in the
future. State-run Xinhua later amended the English-language
report on Lou to say there’s no doubt that China can achieve
this year’s growth target of 7.5 percent. Premier Li said last
month 7 percent was the “bottom line” rate for the nation.  7% Pace  Even so, Englander, who previously worked as an economist
for the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York  and the Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development, estimates some risk of
a dip below 7 percent for a period. He sees GDP rising 7 percent
next year and in 2015.  The implications are that the Australian dollar, which has
fallen more than 12 percent since the start of April to about 91
U.S. cents, has more room to fall, according to Englander. “We
suspect it will take 85 cents or below for international
investors to think that a major stabilization has occurred.”  Elsewhere in the region today,  retail sales  in  New Zealand 
climbed 1.7 percent in the second quarter from three months
earlier, and South Korea’s  jobless rate  held steady at 3.2
percent in July. In Europe, second-quarter gross domestic
product data from France and Germany and the euro area are
scheduled for release, while in the U.S. a reading of wholesale
prices for July is due.  Australia’s links with China tightened in recent years as
 exports  to what’s now its largest trading partner almost
quadrupled in five years. The central bank has one of three
international offices in Beijing -- solely for economic
analysis, rather than for trading, which is the main function of
the New York and London locations. The RBA, which has noted the
 increasing correlation  with China, has a team of about 10
analysts to focus on China and India.  Underperforming Estimates  The RBA  said  Aug. 9 that recent Chinese growth rates have
been “somewhat less than previously expected, reflecting a
weaker contribution from external demand and diminished
prospects for an upswing in domestic demand.”  Governor  Glenn Stevens  cut Australia’s benchmark  interest
rate  on Aug. 6 to a record-low 2.5 percent, seeking to boost
non-mining areas of the economy. The bank last week also trimmed
its projection for Australian GDP to a 2.25 percent gain for
2013, from the 2.5 percent pace estimated in May.  The central bank pared the outlook for mining investment,
saying that while the local statistics bureau’s capital
expenditure survey showed expectations remain strong, “this is
inconsistent with information from the bank’s liaison, few new
commitments to mining projects and a lack of current expenditure
on the development and planning work that would typically
precede new projects.”  Election Pitch  Rudd, a mandarin speaker and former diplomat in Beijing,
has put the case of a China slowdown more starkly than his
central bank governor as he campaigns ahead of elections on
Sept. 7 -- flagging the danger of an Australian recession should
opposition leader  Tony Abbott  win power and execute pledged
fiscal tightening. The  Treasury  yesterday said the peak in
resource investment will be lower than forecast in May, citing
uncertain global prospects, particularly in China and India.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , which is based in Melbourne and is the
world’s biggest mining company, is targeting an 18 percent cut
to  capital spending  in fiscal 2014, joining Glencore Xstrata Plc
in deferring projects and cutting back on outlays. Glencore in
May said it halted work on a 35-million-metric-ton coal port in
Australia, while  Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL)  in April scrapped a
plan to build the Browse liquefied natural gas project at a site
on the Western Australia coast because it was too expensive at
an estimated cost of about $45 billion.  Bullish Miners  Even so, Australian evidence isn’t all stark, and
underscores the unlikelihood of worst-case scenarios such as one
at Barclays Plc where GDP growth dips to 3 percent for a time.
Neville Power, chief executive officer of  Fortescue Metals Group
Ltd. (FMG) , said in an interview Aug. 5 that underlying demand for
iron ore from China remains strong. BHP Chief Executive Officer
 Andrew Mackenzie  said in an Aug. 7 interview he’s “reasonably
positive” about the nation.  “They’re doing a good job at rebalancing and moving more
towards a consumption-based economy and at the same time
thinking more deeply how they can make more efficient use of the
resources that we sell to them,” Mackenzie said in Melbourne.
“Urbanization will continue and so we’re looking in the next 10
or 15 years at the possibility of another 250 million Chinese
moving from the countryside into the city.”  ‘Well Informed’  BHP executives are “well informed,” Merrill Lynch’s
Eslake said. “It’s sensible to have an ear out for what they
say.”  Shane Oliver , Sydney-based head of investment strategy at
AMP Capital Investors Ltd., uses natural-resources data, such as
iron-ore shipments from a remote port in Australia’s northwest,
to help form his estimates of Chinese activity.  Among his favored indicators are Port Hedland  iron-ore
shipments , which climbed to a record in May and held near there
in June -- presaging an unexpected 10.9 percent July surge in
 Chinese imports . It takes about two weeks for ships to travel
from northwest Australia to China’s Qingdao, the nation’s
biggest port for such imports.  “Chinese data gives you a rough guide as to how things are
going, but you wouldn’t rely on it as much as data from
Australia or the U.S,” said Oliver, who travels to China twice
a year and plans October for his next visit. “The fact that the
data comes out so quickly after the end of the period that it
relates to, such as the quarterly data coming out within a few
weeks of the end of the quarter, suggests that it’s pretty
rough.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  