-- With So Many Job Openings, Why So Little Hiring?
-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 2013-08-13T15:03:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/with-so-many-job-openings-why-so-little-hiring-.html
An odd puzzle is taking shape in the
labor market: Over the past three years, the number of  job
openings  has risen almost 50 percent, but actual hiring has gone
up by less than 5 percent. Companies are advertising a lot more
jobs, in other words, but not filling them.  To get some sense of how significant this is, consider that
if, since June 2010, hiring had risen a third as much as
advertised jobs have (rather than only a 10th), and nothing else
were different,  job creation  would be roughly 500,000 higher
each month, and the  unemployment rate  would already be back to
normal levels.  So what explains the yawning gap between jobs open and jobs
filled?  One possibility is that there is a mismatch between the
work that companies need done and the skills that workers have.
As  Peter Newland  of Barclays Plc has  said , “We believe that
this divergence between openings and hiring is consistent with
our view that some of the loss of employment during the
recession was structural, rather than purely cyclical, in
nature.”  Such a structural mismatch may well explain part of the
gap, yet it seems unlikely that it explains most of it. After
all,  job openings  in the retail trade have doubled over the past
three years, while hiring has been flat. Is it plausible that we
lack qualified workers for these jobs?  Wage Calculations  A second explanation is that employers are offering jobs at
wages that are too low to attract good applicants. Alan Krueger,
a labor economist at  Princeton University  who recently stepped
down as chairman of President  Barack Obama ’s  Council of Economic
Advisers , believes this to be an important piece of the puzzle.
He argues that the unemployment rate for those just recently out
of work has now returned to roughly pre-crisis levels, and that
people who have been out of the  labor force  for an extended
period are exerting little downward pressure on wage rates. This
combination means that, although the long-term unemployed still
face a tough road ahead because they are essentially on the
margins of the labor market, pressure is growing for higher
wages for everyone else.  Under this view, companies have simply not yet adjusted
their wage offers. Some support for this perspective comes from
experimental data in the jobs survey, which show that the job-offer rate has risen most sharply (relative to hiring) for
establishments with 10 to 250 workers. Such small businesses may
have more trouble than larger ones in assessing the broader
labor market.  The third possible explanation is that the gap between job
advertising and new hires reflects the growing use of companies’
“internal” labor markets. A variety of other indicators --
including  fewer people moving  to take new jobs -- suggests that
companies are often filling openings from within. Many
nonetheless advertise such positions externally, which would
boost the job-offer rate in the data. The survey counts only
jobs filled from outside a company in its statistics on hiring,
so the increase in job-offer rates for this reason would not
correspond to an increase in hiring rates.  This possibility doesn’t explain why the gap is wider for
smaller businesses, because larger companies have more robust
internal labor markets. But it is consistent with  anecdotal
evidence  that external applicants are facing more onerous
interview processes and that companies are hiring outside job
candidates only slowly and cautiously.  Recruiting Intensity  A related interpretation, favored by  Steven Davis  of the
 University of Chicago , Jason Faberman of the Federal  Reserve
Bank  of Chicago and John Haltiwanger of the  University of
Maryland , is that companies have reduced their “ recruiting
intensity .” They advertise jobs but don’t have much interest in
filling them.  These possible explanations for the openings-hiring gap
have substantially different implications. The mismatch theory,
which seems the least plausible of the three, is the most
depressing, because it implies we’re in for more painful
adjustment and sluggish job growth. The Krueger theory suggests
that as companies adjust their wage offers to an improving labor
market, the gap will narrow. And the notion that internal hiring
and recruiting intensity explain things implies that the gap
itself is a bit of a mirage.  Regardless of the true explanation, it’s still good news
that more jobs are being advertised. That wouldn’t be happening
if the economic outlook were entirely bleak.  ( Peter Orszag  is vice chairman of corporate and investment
banking and chairman of the financial strategy and solutions
group at Citigroup Inc. and a former director of the Office of
Management and Budget in the Obama administration.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Peter Orszag at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 