-- Two Harbors Plans Debut Mortgage Securities Without U.S. Backing
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-08-13T19:20:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/two-harbors-plans-debut-mortgage-securities-without-u-s-backing.html
Two Harbors Investment Corp. (TWO) , the
mortgage real-estate investment trust run by Pine River Capital
Management LP, is planning its first issuance of home-loan
securities without government backing.  The transaction will include $400.7 million of top-rated
bonds and be tied to a “high-quality mortgage pool,” Fitch
Ratings said today in statement. After buying the junior-ranked
portion of a  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  deal in the first quarter,
the REIT accumulated $520 million of prime jumbo mortgages it
could securitize itself when market conditions allowed, Chief
Investment Officer William Roth said an Aug. 7 conference call.  Even with investors in AAA slices of such deals demanding
even higher yields in comparison to benchmark rates, Two Harbors
could earn about 6 percent to 7 percent when retaining the
subordinate portions, Roth said. The Minnetonka, Minnesota-based
company has created a business to buy home loans in anticipation
of the U.S. scaling back the roles of Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac, such as by lowering their loan limits, he said.  “We are constructive about the long-term opportunity in
this market and hope to play a meaningful role as the government
reduces its involvement in the mortgage market over time,” he
said on the call with analysts.  Sales of debt known as  non-agency mortgage securities  froze
five years ago amid tumbling home values and soaring defaults,
following issuance of $1.2 trillion in each of 2005 and 2006,
and then restarted in 2010. Deals tied to new loans exceed $10
billion this year, up from $3.5 billion in all of 2012,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Jumbo home loans are larger than those allowed in
government supported programs, currently as much as $729,750 for
single-family properties in high-cost areas. For Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac loans with the lowest costs for most types of
borrowers, limits range from $417,000 to $625,500.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  