-- WTI Crude Snaps Three-Day Gain Amid Signs Stockpiles Rose
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-08-14T11:45:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/wti-crude-snaps-three-day-gain-amid-signs-fuel-stockpiles-rose.html
West Texas Intermediate declined for
the first time in four days after an industry report showed fuel
inventories rose in the U.S., the world’s biggest oil consumer.
 Brent crude  fell from the highest close since April.  Futures slid as much as 0.9 percent after advancing 3.3
percent in the previous three days. Gasoline stockpiles climbed
by 1.7 million barrels, while distillate supplies gained 1.1
million, data from the  American Petroleum Institute  showed
yesterday, according to two people familiar with the matter. The
Energy Department is scheduled to release its report today.  “Product inventories are starting to gain as seasonal
demand eases,” said  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst at VTB
Capital in  London , who predicts WTI will trade in a range of
$102 to $108 a barrel this month.  WTI for September delivery dropped as much as 91 cents to
$105.92 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  and was at
$106.12 as of 12:15 p.m. London time. The volume of all futures
traded was 24 percent below the 100-day average.  Brent for September settlement, which expires tomorrow,
declined as much as 77 cents to $109.05 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. It closed at $109.82
yesterday, the highest since April 2. The more actively traded
October contract lost 57 cents to $107.91 today. The European
benchmark crude was at a  premium  of $3.06 to WTI.  Oil Supplies  U.S. crude inventories shrank by 999,000 barrels in the
week ended Aug. 9, the API reported, said the two people who
asked not to be identified because the information wasn’t
publicly distributed. Stockpiles  probably decreased  by 1.5
million barrels, according to the median estimate of 11 analysts
surveyed by  Bloomberg News  before today’s report from the Energy
Information Administration, the Energy Department’s statistical
unit. Gasoline supplies fell by 1.6 million barrels and
distillates increased by 1 million, the survey showed.  “The market has overheated and we’re seeing some
pullback,” said  Victor Shum , a vice president at IHS Energy
Insight, a consultant in  Singapore . “As we move out of the peak
demand season, the markets may be headed for a correction.”  The API in  Washington  collects stockpile information on a
voluntary basis from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and
pipelines. The government requires that reports be filed with
the EIA for its weekly survey.  WTI has technical support along its 30-day middle Bollinger
Band, at about $105.50 a barrel today, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Front-month futures rose the past three
days after trading near this indicator. Buy orders tend to be
clustered around chart-support levels.  Libyan Terminals  Libya ’s Mellitah port may restart today following the
resumption of the El Feel, or Elephant, field, according to Oil
Minister Abdulbari Al-Arusi. The country is pumping about
650,000 barrels a day, while among its export terminals, only
Zawiya, with a capacity of 300,000 barrels a day, is in
operation, he said in Tripoli yesterday.  Crude production in Libya, the OPEC member that holds
Africa’s largest oil reserves, has fallen to less than half the
level pumped before the 2011 uprising against  Muammar Qaddafi ,
amid a labor dispute that started in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  