-- WTI Rises on Sales Data as Brent Reaches Four-Month High
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2013-08-13T20:46:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/wti-crude-futures-decline-after-reversing-earlier-gain.html
West Texas Intermediate advanced for
a third day after U.S. retail sales gained and German investor
confidence topped forecasts. Brent crude climbed to a four-month
high in  London  on supply disruptions.  WTI gained 0.7 percent as Commerce Department data showed
U.S. retail sales rose for a fourth month in July. The ZEW
Center for European Economic Research’s index of German investor
and analyst expectations rose to 42 in August, more than the
39.9 median forecast in a Bloomberg survey. Brent extended its
premium to WTI as Libya’s biggest oil terminal was shut and
South Sudan worked to avoid halting exports.  “The positive economic news from both the U.S. and Europe
is outweighing any negative factors,” said Michael Lynch,
president of Strategic Energy & Economic Research in Winchester,
 Massachusetts . “The retail sales numbers were good and we’re
seeing the markets respond.”  WTI crude for September delivery rose 72 cents to settle at
$106.83 a barrel on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange. It was the
highest settlement since Aug. 2. The volume of all futures
traded was less than 1 percent above the 100-day average.  Prices were little changed after the American Petroleum
Institute was said to report U.S. crude supplies fell 999,000
barrels last week. Futures were up 50 cents, or 0.5 percent, at
$106.61 a barrel at 4:39 p.m. in electronic trading. WTI traded
at $106.54 before the API release at 4:30 p.m. in Washington.  Brent Rally  Brent oil for September settlement climbed 85 cents, or 0.8
percent, to end the session at $109.82 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. It was the highest closing
price since April 2. Trading was 3 percent below the 100-day
average. The European benchmark traded at a $2.99  premium  to WTI
at today’s settlement, up from $2.86 yesterday.  The 0.2 percent increase in retail sales followed a 0.6
percent gain in June that was larger than previously reported,
according to figures issued today in  Washington .  Mannheim-based ZEW’s  index , which aims to predict economic
developments six months in advance, rose to the highest level
since March.  Brent rose on potential supply disruptions. An official at
the Libyan port of Es Sider said the port shut after opening on
Aug. 11. It was closed July 28 amid protests by the Petroleum
Facilities Guard, which is pressing for better working
conditions.  Libyan Production  Interruptions at ports and other installations across Libya
reduced the country’s oil production to 800,000 barrels a day in
July, half the rate of a year earlier, according to a Bloomberg
survey of output by members of the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries.  South  Sudan  is producing 160,000 barrels a day, Petroleum
Minister Stephen Dhieu Dau said on Aug. 9. The nation seceded
from Sudan in July 2011 and took three-quarters of the formerly
united country’s output of 490,000 barrels a day.  In Europe, a gas turbine at the North Sea Ula platform that
handles crude from three oil fields broke down on Aug. 7, Jan Erik Geirmo, a BP spokesman in Stavanger,  Norway , said in an e-mail yesterday. The affected fields, which feed into the Ekofisk
stream, were producing 8,000 barrels a day, according to
estimates by the Norwegian Petroleum Directorate.  ‘Fundamental Factors’  “Brent is stronger than WTI right now because of several
fundamental factors,” said  Addison Armstrong , director of
market research at Tradition Energy in Stamford,  Connecticut .
“The Libyan situation is unstable, there might be another
disruption from South Sudan and there’s the drop in Ekofisk
output from the North Sea.”  U.S.  crude inventories  dropped 1.5 million barrels to 361.8
million last week, according to a Bloomberg News survey of 11
analysts before a report tomorrow from the Washington-based
Energy Information Administration. That would leave supplies at
the lowest level since Jan. 11.  Crude  output  rose 18,000 barrels a day to 7.56 million on
Aug. 2, the most since December 1989, according to last week’s
EIA report.  “There have been some disruptions but they’ve had no
impact on WTI,” Schork said. “The U.S. isn’t thirsty for oil,
we have plenty of it.”  WTI has climbed 16 percent this year as the Federal Reserve
maintained unprecedented monetary stimulus. Prices fell in
intraday trading on speculation the central bank will curb its
$85 million in monthly bond purchases.  Federal Reserve  Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta President Dennis Lockhart,
who has backed the stimulus plan, said today that policy makers
may start to slow buying at any of their next few meetings amid
“uneven performance” by the economy. Lockhart, who doesn’t
vote on monetary policy this year, gave a speech in Atlanta.  “The retail sales numbers today were another positive sign
for the economy,” said Addison Armstrong, director of market
research at Tradition Energy in  Stamford , Connecticut. “Each
positive piece of data brings forward the prospect that the Fed
will soon cut its stimulus efforts.”  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
October was 21.8 percent, little changed from yesterday, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 577,739
contracts as of 4:40 p.m. It totaled 555,788 contracts
yesterday, 15 percent below the three-month average. Open
interest was a record 1.93 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  