-- Yellen, Fischer Among Participants at Jackson Hole This Year
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-08-13T17:09:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/yellen-fischer-among-participants-at-jackson-hole-this-year.html
Federal Reserve Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  and former Bank of Israel Governor Stanley Fischer will
moderate discussions this month at the Kansas City Fed’s
Economic Policy Symposium in  Jackson Hole , Wyoming.  In contrast with recent years, there will be no keynote
address on the first full day of the conference, which is Aug.
23.  Ben S. Bernanke , who has given the introductory speech every
year since becoming Fed chairman in 2006, doesn’t plan to attend
the conference. The agenda was provided to attendees under
embargo.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  published details of the schedule
in a research note yesterday.  “Despite an interesting docket of speakers and presenters
from a central banking perspective, with no major Fed officials
scheduled to speak, the markets are likely to pay a lot less
attention to Jackson Hole than in the past,” Bank of America
economists  Ethan Harris  and  Michael Hanson  wrote in the note.  Christine Lagarde , the managing director of the
International Monetary Fund, will appear at the conference,
according to the IMF. The gathering will also feature remarks
from Agustin Carstens, governor of the Bank of Mexico, and Frank Smets, research director from the European Central Bank,
according to Bank of America. A panel discussion on Aug. 24 will
feature the Bank of Japan’s governor,  Haruhiko Kuroda , and the
Central Bank of Brazil’s governor, Alexandre Tombini.  ‘Hot Topic’  Entitled “Global Dimensions of Unconventional Monetary
Policy,” the conference will feature a number of presentations
from academics. Harris and Hanson said a paper from Arvind
Krishnamurthy of Northwestern University titled “The
Transmission of Unconventional Monetary Policy” will provide
“a hot topic of debate.”  “An argument for a limited impact of QE would likely be
interpreted by the markets as suggesting the Fed should and will
taper quickly and end QE3 sooner rather than later,” Hanson and
Harris said in their note, referring to bond buying known as
quantitative easing.  The Kansas City Fed’s economics symposium in Jackson Hole
has been closely watched by investors for signs of changes in
central bank policy. The last time a Fed chairman didn’t address
the conference was in 1988, when  Alan Greenspan  didn’t speak.  High-profile speeches at the Wyoming gathering have made
the event among the most-watched in central banking. In 2010,
Bernanke’s remarks were seen as a signal that the Fed would
start a second round of large-scale asset purchases. The
purchases began in November of that year.  2012 Keynote  Last August, Bernanke told the conference that “the costs
of nontraditional policies, when considered carefully, appear
manageable, implying that we should not rule out the further use
of such policies if economic conditions warrant.”  The Fed began its third round of asset purchases the month
after Bernanke spoke. In December, it more than doubled the size
of the program to $85 billion a month from $40 billion.  The Kansas City Fed’s annual economics symposium was first
moved to Wyoming in 1982 to lure then-Fed Chairman  Paul Volcker ,
an avid fly fisherman, according to “In Late August,” a
history of the event published by the Kansas City Fed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  