-- U.S. Stocks Drop While Italy, Spain Bonds Advance on Euro
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   L u   W a n g
-- 2013-08-14T20:35:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/yen-holds-drop-as-aussie-index-futures-advance-wti-falls.html
U.S. stocks fell as Macy’s Inc.
paced a drop in retailers after reducing its earnings forecast
and economists predicted the Federal Reserve will taper asset
purchases next month. Italian and Spanish bonds rose with
European shares as the euro area exited its longest recession.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 slipped 0.5 percent to 1,685.39
at 4 p.m. in New York, with trading volumes about 22 percent
below the 100-day average. Italy’s  10-year yield  decreased five
basis points to 4.18 percent and the Stoxx Europe 600 Index
added 0.3 percent for a fifth straight gain. The pound rebounded
from a three-day slump as U.K. jobless claims dropped more in
July than analysts forecast. Treasury yields were little changed
near the highest level this year. Egyptian shares and bonds slid
as political violence escalated.  The Fed, led by Chairman Ben S. Bernanke, will probably
reduce the central bank’s $85 billion in monthly bond purchases
next month, according to 65 percent of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Euro-area gross domestic product expanded 0.3 percent
in the second quarter from the previous three months, after
Germany and  France  earlier reported faster second-quarter
growth.  “The market is scope-locked on Fed tapering in
September,” Douglas Cote, chief market strategist at ING U.S.
Investment Management in New York, said in a telephone
interview. His firm oversees $190 billion. “Quantitative easing
is creating some excess in the financial system. The last thing
Bernanke wants when he finishes his term is to be responsible
for the next bubble.”  Market Movers  The S&P 500 retreated for the sixth time in eight sessions.
Macy’s slumped 4.5 percent for its biggest decline of the year
and retailers in the S&P 500 lost 1.5 percent as group for the
worst drop among 24 industries. Macy’s also posted second-quarter profit that trailed analysts’ estimates amid an
unexpected sales decline after Chief Executive Officer Terry
Lundgren used promotions to clear inventory.  Cree Inc. (CREE) , the North Carolina-based maker of energy-efficient lighting products, sank 22 percent as its earnings
forecast missed analysts’ estimates. Boeing Co., Home Depot Inc.
and Johnson & Johnson slid at least 2 percent for the biggest
losses in the Dow Jones Industrial Average, which sank 113
points.  U.S. equities rose yesterday, halting a two-day decline,
after Commerce Department data showed retail sales increased 0.2
percent in July, following a 0.6 percent gain in June that was
larger than previously reported.  European Movers  About three stocks rose for every two that declined in the
Stoxx 600, with trading volumes in line with the 30-day average.
 Swiss Life Holding AG (SLHN)  rallied 5.3 percent as Switzerland’s
largest life insurer reported first-half profit that exceeded
analyst estimates. Portugal Telecom SGPS SA, the nation’s
biggest phone company, fell 7.3 percent after cutting its
dividend.  Spanish 10-year yields slid seven basis points to 4.42
percent, while the rate on similar-maturity Portuguese debt fell
three basis points to 6.50 percent.  “The market has been underpinned by the recent better
data,” said  Padhraic Garvey , head of developed-market debt
strategy at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam. “We’ve seen some decent
buying of periphery. The trend has been pretty robust.”  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index added 0.2 percent, rising
for a fifth straight day.  Brazil ’s Ibovespa index jumped 1.5
percent for a sixth straight gain, its longest rally since
September, The Shanghai Composite Index retreated 0.3 percent
while  Russia ’s Micex index gained 1.1 percent and  India ’s Sensex
Index advanced 0.7 percent.  Egypt Violence  Egyptian shares fell the most in the world as police moved
to disperse sit-ins where supporters of ousted President Mohamed
Mursi were gathered, leaving at least 95 dead. The bourse and
banks will shut tomorrow, the nation’s exchange said.  The benchmark EGX 30 Index retreated 1.7 percent, the
largest drop since July 8 and the biggest among 94 benchmarks
tracked by Bloomberg, to 5,549.19 at the close in Cairo. Orascom
Telecom Holding fell the most in three weeks. The violence
prompted London-based Noah Capital Markets EMEA Ltd. to cut
Egyptian equities to sell from neutral. Yields on  Egypt ’s 5.75
percent eurobonds due in April 2020 soared 45 basis points to
8.78 percent at 4:24 p.m. in Cairo.  Commodity Movers  The S&P GSCI Index of raw materials added 0.4 percent as
West Texas Intermediate oil erased earlier losses to settle
little changed at $106.85 a barrel. Copper added 0.6 percent in
London. Europe is the second-largest region for copper
consumption, after  China , according to Barclays Plc. Silver,
lean hogs, coffee and natural gas climbed at least 1.8 percent
to lead an advance among 22 of the 24 commodities in the index.  The Swiss franc declined versus 14 of its 16 major
counterparts, retreating 0.2 percent to 1.2396 per euro after
depreciating to 1.2427, the weakest since July 11. Switzerland’s
currency dropped 0.2 percent to 93.48 centimes per dollar.  Britain’s currency appreciated 0.4 percent to $1.5511. Bank
of England minutes today showed Governor Mark Carney failed to
unite policy makers on implementing forward guidance. The 10-year gilt yield climbed four basis points to 2.64 percent, the
highest level since October 2011.  New Zealand’s dollar strengthened 0.9 percent against the
U.S. currency after retail sales jumped in the second quarter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in  London  at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  