-- ThyssenKrupp Says Unit Sale Taking Longer Than Expected
-- B y   T i n o   A n d r e s e n
-- 2013-08-14T16:37:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/thyssenkrupp-third-quarter-profit-falls-beats-analyst-estimates.html
ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) ,  Germany ’s largest
steelmaker, said it won’t rush the sale of its Steel Americas
unit, which is taking longer than expected.  “We will not make our decisions dependent on reporting
deadlines,” Chief Executive Officer  Heinrich Hiesinger  said
yesterday in an interim earnings statement. The Essen-based
company previously planned to sign a deal before the end of the
fiscal year on Sept. 30.  ThyssenKrupp is in “very advanced negotiations with a
leading bidder on the sale,” the company said in the statement.
“The group is also in talks with other interested parties.”  ThyssenKrupp is selling the Americas unit and expanding
non-steel operations to weather a decline in demand. Lower
consumption in the auto and construction industries and higher
competition from  China  has reduced steel prices, leading German
peer  Salzgitter AG (SZG)  to announce a cut of 1,500 staff today.
 Brazil ’s  Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA (CSNA3)  is the leading bidder for
Steel Americas, people with knowledge of the talks said in May.  “The delay shows that Hiesinger stands with his back to
the wall,” Marc Gabriel, an analyst at Bankhaus Lampe KG, said
by telephone from Dusseldorf.  ThyssenKrupp has spent 15 months trying to sell its
Brazilian and U.S. steel-plant assets. The steelmaker fell 1.3
percent to close at 16.625 euros in  Frankfurt , where volume
traded was more than twice the three-month daily average.  A share or rights sale remains an option and doesn’t “need
to be coupled” with the unit sale, Hiesinger said yesterday.  ‘Fire-Sale Mode’  ThyssenKrupp spent almost 12 billion euros ($15.9 billion)
on the Americas plants. After several writedowns, their current
book value is 3.4 billion euros. That has resulted in an equity
ratio -- or total equity to total equity and liabilities -- of 8
percent by June 30, down from 21 percent a year earlier. The net
debt to equity, or gearing, ratio almost tripled to 186 percent.  “The liquidity of the group is well-secured,” Chief
Financial Officer Guido Kerkhoff said, citing a figure of 7.2
billion euros available. “We are not in a fire-sale mode.”  ThyssenKrupp said in its interim report that there’s a risk
the company will end the fiscal year with a gearing ratio above
the limit in its debt covenants of 150 percent.  “Should this be the case, we will begin negotiations with
the banks involved to request a waiver of the gearing
covenant,” the company said.  Profit Beats  An unused 2.5 billion-euro committed credit facility with a
group of banks, as well as other loans, may be terminated
immediately should gearing exceed 150 percent, the company said.  Adjusted earnings before interest and taxes from continuing
operations slid 14 percent to 332 million euros in the three
months through June, ThyssenKrupp said in the statement.  That exceeded the 266.8 million-euro average of 17
 analysts’ estimates  compiled by Bloomberg as all business areas
except Industrial Solutions contributed more than the earlier
quarter. ThyssenKrupp reported a net loss, including Steel
Americas, of 362 million euros compared with a profit of 109
million euros a year earlier.  Steel Americas’ adjusted loss before interest and taxes
narrowed to 162 million euros in the quarter from 262 million
euros a year earlier. Profit in the Steel Europe unit rose 19
percent to 62 million euros.  Reports of a possible sale of the European unit are
“nonsense,” Hiesinger said.  ThyssenKrupp confirmed its forecast for annual adjusted
Ebit of about 1 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tino Andresen in Dusseldorf at 
 tandresen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  