-- Yucca Mountain Nuclear Storage Bid Must Be Processed
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d   a n d   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-08-13T19:35:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/yucca-mountain-nuclear-storage-bid-must-be-processed.html
The  U.S. Nuclear Regulatory
Commission  must continue reviewing a license application for a
nuclear-waste dump at Nevada’s Yucca Mountain, a federal appeals
court ruled in a potential blow to the Obama administration’s
efforts to shut the facility.  The NRC “is simply flouting the law” by declining to
complete the review, U.S. Circuit Judge  Brett Kavanaugh  wrote
for the majority of a three-judge panel in today’s decision.  While the court’s ruling revives the debate over building a
repository at Yucca Mountain, about 100 miles (161 kilometers)
northwest of Las Vegas, it doesn’t mean that the Energy
Department project will be built. The NRC’s final decision is
uncertain, and Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada
Democrat, has led opposition in Congress.  The agency is reviewing the decision, NRC spokesman  David McIntyre  said in an e-mail.  The Obama administration in 2010 halted funding for the
Yucca Mountain project, and the NRC stopped its review of the
Energy Department’s application, citing a lack of funds.  Officials in states where nuclear waste is being stored,
including South Carolina and Washington, petitioned the court to
make the regulator to resume its consideration of the permit.  $15 Billion  Advocates of Yucca Mountain viewed the ruling as a step
toward completing the project, which has already cost taxpayers
and industry about $15 billion, according to the Government
Accountability Office.  “Today’s action by the court is a significant milestone
for Yucca Mountain and a clear rebuke of the  Nuclear Regulatory
Commission ’s failure to implement the Nuclear Waste Policy
Act,” Republican Representatives Fred Upton of Michigan and
 John Shimkus  of Illinois said in a statement. Upton is chairman
of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and Shimkus leads its
environment and economy panel.  The NRC has about $11.1 million to continue its review and
should do so as required by the Nuclear Waste Policy Act, signed
by President  Ronald Reagan  in 1983, the court ruled.  “It is no overstatement to say that our constitutional
system of separation of powers would be significantly altered if
we were to allow executive and independent agencies to disregard
federal law in the manner asserted in this case by the Nuclear
Regulatory Commission,” wrote Kavanaugh, who was appointed by
President  George W. Bush .  ‘Necessary Steps’  The Nuclear Energy Institute, a Washington-based industry
group for reactor-owners including  Exelon Corp. (EXC)  of Chicago and
 Southern Co. (SO)  of Atlanta, and Nuclear Waste Strategy Coalition
said the next step is up to the regulator.  “The nuclear energy industry fully expects the NRC to take
all necessary steps to immediately resume its independent
scientific evaluation of the Yucca Mountain license application,
as directed by the court,” the two groups said in a statement.  The waste strategy coalition is an “ad hoc organization
representing the collective interests” of groups including
state regulators and utilities, according to its website.  U.S. Circuit Judge Merrick Garland dissented, writing that
the NRC doesn’t have enough money left to process the
application.  Directing the agency to evaluate the application “amounts
to little more than ordering the commission to spend part of
those funds unpacking its boxes, and the remainder packing them
up again,” said Garland.  “Instead of continuing to try to force Yucca Mountain on
the people of Nevada, my colleagues should focus on moving
forward toward a new process that will allow for consent-based
siting,” Senator  Dean Heller , a Nevada Republican, said in a
statement. Adam Jentleson, a spokeman for Reid, didn’t
immediately respond to a request for comment.  The case is In re Aiken County, 11-1271,  U.S. Court of
Appeals  for the  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington
at   bwingfield3@bloomberg.net .
Andrew Zajac in federal court in Washington
at   azajac@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at   jmorgan97@bloomberg.net .
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ; 