-- Hyundai Motor Braces for Second Straight Year of Labor Strikes
-- B y   R o s e   K i m
-- 2013-08-13T16:22:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/hyundai-motor-braces-for-second-straight-year-of-labor-strikes.html
Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and  Kia Motors
Corp. (000270)  workers agreed to go on strike for a second straight year
to demand higher wages.  More than 70 percent of Hyundai’s 45,000 guild members
voted in favor of authorizing union leader Moon Yong Moon to
call for a walkout at the company, Kim Gi Hyuk, a union
spokesman, said in a text message. Workers at Hyundai’s
affiliate Kia also voted in favor of a strike plan yesterday.
The strike may begin as soon as Aug. 20, Kim said earlier.  While Hyundai is used to stoppages -- workers have gone on
strike in 22 of the past 26 years -- the walkouts loom as the
weaker yen gives Japanese automakers an edge to cut prices or
offer incentives on their cars. Seoul-based Hyundai’s net income
has fallen for three straight quarters, while analysts estimate
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  is headed for a record annual profit.  “If the union does walk out as planned, it will lead to a
worse-than-expected third-quarter profit,” Lee Sang Hyun, an
analyst at NH Investment & Securities Co., said by phone before
the voting results were announced. Still, “it’s unlikely the
strikes would go on for long as the union won’t risk giving up
their bonuses, which are given only when workers meet production
targets.”  Hyundai and Kia’s labor unions have said they’re demanding
a pay increase of 130,498 won ($117) a month and for 30 percent
of net income to be distributed to workers. The talks started
May 28 for Hyundai and July 2 for Kia.  Costly Strikes  Stalled wage talks at Hyundai last year led to the
costliest strike in its history, causing a production shortfall
of 82,088 vehicles and an estimated 1.7 trillion won in lost
sales.  Hyundai shares rose 2.7 percent to 227,000 won at the close
in Seoul trading yesterday. Kia rose 2 percent. This compares
with 1.5 percent rise in the benchmark Kospi index.  Hyundai sent a letter to the union yesterday requesting
that the talks resume, according to an e-mailed statement.  The vote at Hyundai, which has the nation’s biggest
workers’ guild, signals the resurging militancy of South Korean
labor unions as unemployment rises and employers shift
production overseas. Past Hyundai union protests have led to
clashes between police and militant unionists armed with steel
pipes and Molotov cocktails.  The number of South Korean work days lost on labor disputes
more than doubled to 933 days last year from 429 in 2011,
according to  data  compiled by the nation’s Ministry of
Employment and Labor. In 1993, the  Bank of Korea  cited
protracted labor strife at Hyundai as a key reason for its
decision to lower its gross national product estimate.  Annual Strikes  Prior to 2008, the union went on strike every year except
one, costing what Hyundai estimates to be more than 1 million
vehicles valued at 11.6 trillion won in lost sales.  Moon Yong Moon was elected as Hyundai’s union leader in
2011 after pledging to be a tougher negotiator than his
predecessor, Lee Kyung Hoon, who was elected to a two-year term
in 2009 after pledging to curb unnecessary strikes.  Moon’s activism in past protests led him to be arrested
four times and laid off by the company three times since he
joined Hyundai’s union in 1988.  The won has gained 26 percent against the yen in the past
year, curbing Kia and Hyundai’s competitiveness against Japanese
automakers, which are also big exporters to the U.S.  Hyundai’s incentives in the U.S. surged 47 percent through
July from a year earlier. That compares with a 1.7 percent
decline in Toyota’s incentives and the market average of a 2.4
percent increase, according to Autodata Corp.  Hyundai’s sales rose 2 percent in the U.S. market through
July, trailing the industry’s 8.5 percent growth. Its deliveries
slumped 7.2 percent in  Europe  in the April to June quarter.  Kia spent 7.6 percent more per vehicle on incentives in the
U.S. this year, while sales fell 3.1 percent, according to
Autodata.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rose Kim in Seoul at 
 rkim76@bloomberg.net  