-- Zynga CEO Mattrick Shakes Up Management Ranks
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2013-08-14T00:10:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-13/zynga-coo-david-ko-leaving-amid-executive-reorganization.html
Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  said Chief Operations
Officer David Ko and Chief People Officer Colleen McCreary are
leaving the social-gaming developer amid an executive shuffle.  Both are among several senior managers departing as part of
a reorganization being led by Chief Executive Officer Don Mattrick. Chief Technology Officer Cadir Lee will also exit,
Mattrick said in an  e-mail  to staff today.  The exits follow last month’s appointment of Mattrick, a
former  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  executive who is attempting a turnaround
at the struggling game maker. The new CEO is working to revive
growth and reinvigorate Zynga’s efforts in mobile games. The
company expects two to four quarters of “volatility” as
Mattrick evaluates the business and products while developing a
new strategy, he said on a conference call last month.  “We are taking layers out of the executive rank to get
senior leaders closer to important product initiatives,”
Mattrick wrote.  Zynga is down 17 percent since announcing on July 25 that
it’s abandoning plans to enter the online-gambling business in
the U.S. The company also forecast third-quarter sales and
earnings that fell short of analysts’ estimates as fewer users
play games on  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s website.  Mattrick, who replaced  Mark Pincus  as CEO in early July, is
seeking to turn around the company and reverse a share slide of
71 percent since the company went public in December 2011.  King.com, developer of “Candy Crush Saga,” reached 150.4
million monthly users on Facebook in June, surpassing Zynga,
according to online tracker  AppData , ending Zynga’s five-year
reign as the top game maker on the social-networking service.  Ko, who spent a decade at  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  before joining Zynga,
was promoted to COO last November following a previous
reorganization led by founder Pincus.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  