-- 
’Big Four’ Power Draws U.K. Antitrust Probe

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-10-21T14:41:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/-big-four-dominance-set-for-antitrust-probe-by-u-k-regulator.html
The “Big Four” accounting firms’
dominance over corporate audits in Britain will be investigated
after an antitrust regulator said the market is bad for
customers and small competitors.  The U.K.  Office of Fair Trading , which has examined the
issue since 2002, referred the matter today to the Competition
Commission to find any distortions in the industry and
potentially force changes. The probe will focus on KPMG LLP,
Deloitte LLP, Ernst & Young LLP and PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.  “The market for large company audits lacks sufficient
competition and does not work well for customers,”  John Fingleton , the OFT’s chief executive officer, said in the
statement. “It is highly concentrated, largely supplied by four
big firms, with clients rarely switching between auditors.”  Large audit firms also face potential European Union
restrictions on offering consulting services and may be forced
to share work with smaller rivals. The OFT said the U.K.
investigation will complement the parallel EU probe and address
competition concerns found only in Britain.  “The nature, content and timing of EU legislation are not
settled and the OFT believes that there are a number of
important inputs that the Competition Commission might make
during the legislative process,” the OFT said in the statement.  99 Percent  The  Competition Commission  will likely demand a significant
amount of time and information from the four firms during the
probe, and has authority to impose a variety of changes in the
industry, said Rosemary Choueka, who leads the EU competition
team at the law firm Lawrence Graham LLP in London.  “They could include limiting the duration of audit
appointments, or regulating the terms of such appointments, or
even requiring the Big Four to divest some of their audit
business to other accountancy firms or a new entrant,” Choueka
said.  A U.K. government committee investigating the global
financial crisis earlier called for a probe of the Big Four,
which earned 99 percent of audit fees paid by the 100 largest
U.K. companies last year, according to the OFT. The watchdog
made a provisional finding for the investigation on July 29.  David Sproul, Deloitte U.K.’s chief executive officer, and
KPMG spokesman Mark Hamilton said in statements that the U.K.
audit market is already competitive and that the companies will
cooperate in the probe.  ‘Fierce Rivalry’  Richard Sexton, a PwC board member, said there is “fierce
rivalry” in the market and that the biggest U.K. companies need
the expertise of international audit firms.  Large companies “are sophisticated, demanding and
discerning buyers of professional services,” Sexton said in a
statement. “Their operations are often complex and
international.”  Ernst & Young’s head of assurance for Britain and Ireland,
Hywel Ball, said the company supports some measures to increase
choice for customers, such as removing “Big Four only”
restrictions for audits and liberalising accounting firm
ownership rules.  The OFT has said the size of the Big Four’s market share is
propelled by the cost of switching auditors, the ease of
explaining the choice of accounting firms to investors, the
extensive international networks held by bigger auditors and the
risk associated with auditing larger companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in  London  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  