-- 
‘Gruesome’ Qaddafi Video May Trigger UN Probe

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 
2011-10-22T04:01:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/-gruesome-videos-of-qaddafi-s-final-moments-may-be-the-target-of-un-probe.html
Muammar Qaddafi’s last moments were
captured on video and released on the Internet: In one he is
alive and in the other, dead. How the Libyan dictator met his
end may now come under scrutiny in a  United Nations  probe.  One of the videos shows Qaddafi with a gunshot wound to his
head after a struggle with fighters. At first he is seen with no
injuries, wearing desert fatigues and kneeling on the ground
surrounded by men holding pistols. Later, blood is pouring from
the side of his head as he is helped to his feet and escorted to
the back of a pickup truck.  During the footage, a voice is heard shouting out in
Arabic: “Don’t shoot.”  The manner of Qaddafi’s death may offend tribes that were
loyal to him and stoke new tensions in a manner reminiscent of
the aftermath of  Saddam Hussein ’s execution in 2006. Then, video
of the Iraqi dictator’s death showed Hussein, a  Sunni Muslim ,
being taunted by Shiites before his hanging in  Baghdad .  Muammar Qaddafi’s tribe demanded the NTC hand over his body
and the bodies of his dead sons to be buried in Sirte “in
accordance with all customs and principles, Islamic and
humanitarian,” Al Arabiya television reported, citing a
statement made by leaders of the tribe.  It is understandable that four decades of oppression have
generated mass hatred for Qaddafi, according to Rashied Omar, a
research scholar of Islamic studies at the  University of Notre
Dame ’s Kroc Institute.  Islamic Ethic  “But there is a clear Islamic ethic of dealing with one’s
enemies” and the Koran doesn’t condone killing to deliver
justice, Omar said in an e-mail.  Qaddafi’s corpse is being kept in a refrigerator in Misrata
and no decision has been made yet on where he will be buried,
Ali Tarhouni, oil and finance minister in Libya’s ruling
National Transitional Council, said in an interview. The
 International Criminal Court  in The Hague, which indicted
Qaddafi, will need to confirm his death and complete paperwork,
the  Associated Press  reported, citing Mohamed Sayeh, a member of
the NTC, which led the movement to overthrow the dictator.  Photographs online that show gunshot wounds to Qaddafi’s
head may shake people’s faith in the government’s ability to
deliver justice even if a probe reveals the orders didn’t come
from the  National Transitional Council .  Hundreds of Libyans gathered for Friday prayers in
Benghazi’s seaside Liberation Square, where photos of victims
killed by Qaddafi’s forces were hanging on walls and poles.  “If the rebels could have captured him and put him on
trial, it would have been better,” said crowd member Tarek
Bougrein. “He practiced tyranny and there are so many files
that should have been opened had he been still alive. But what
can we say? That’s his destiny.”  Split Among Tribes  Benghazi, the stronghold for the rebels, has traditionally
been hostile to Qaddafi and reactions to his death may not
reflect views throughout the country, which is split among
myriad tribes that showed allegiance to Qaddafi in the past.
 Libya  will be formally declared liberated tomorrow in Benghazi,
according to Jalal El Gallal, an NTC spokesman.  “Killing him is the least they can do,” Ahmed Ferjani, a
40-year-old medic, said. “He was more dangerous than Hitler and
he was a threat not only to Libyans but to the whole world.”  Nazi ruler  Adolf Hitler  committed suicide in his bunker in
April 1945. Days earlier his ally, Fascist dictator  Benito Mussolini , was caught and executed by partisans and hung upside
down in a Milan piazza where his body was beaten by an angry
mob. Under Mussolini, Libya became an Italian colony.  Arab Spring  Qaddafi is the third autocrat to be toppled and the first
to die in this year’s Arab Spring uprisings. Tunisia’s Zine El Abidine Ben Ali fled to  Saudi Arabia  in January.  Egypt ’s  Hosni Mubarak  was toppled a month later and is currently on trial,
accused of conspiring to kill protesters who opposed his rule.  While Libya doesn’t have  Iraq ’s sectarian Muslim rivalries,
it does have regional and tribal divisions. The fear of revenge
attacks against tribes that remained loyal to Qaddafi was one of
the reasons civilians in Bani Walid and Sirte held out so long
against the insurgency. Qaddafi’s son and heir-apparent Saif al- Islam is still at large and the NTC is trying to determine his
whereabouts, spokesman Gallal said.  There are four or five different videos of events leading
to the death of Qaddafi,  Africa ’s longest-serving despot,
including one where a rebel is seen holding the former
dictator’s golden handgun.  “Taken together, these videos are very disturbing, and
more details are needed to ascertain whether he was killed in
the fighting or after his capture,” Rupert Colville, spokesman
for the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, said
in a telephone interview from Geneva.  A summary execution of someone who no longer poses a threat
is illegal under international law.  In Hiding  Qaddafi went into hiding after forces loyal to the NTC
stormed the capital, Tripoli, at the end of August. Since then,
senior officials have sought to unite the factions that helped
overthrow Qaddafi and called for Libyans to refrain from acts of
revenge. NTC chairman Mustafa Abdel Jalil threatened to resign
if law and order wasn’t respected.  Qaddafi’s 42-year rule was marked by torture, killings,
disappearances and scores of other human rights violations.
Libya’s justice and police systems were geared to supporting
Qaddafi and his family members, so one of the challenges for the
new leadership is to create balanced and independent legal
structures.  “An important part of the transition from dictatorship to
democracy is creating a fair and balanced legal and police
system,” Colville said. “People need to see people being
investigated, properly prosecuted and jailed if warranted. That
process is cathartic and helps establish law and order.”  French Jet  Coalition planes two days ago noticed a convoy of dozen
four-by-four vehicles trying to force their way out of Sirte,
French Defense Minister Gerard Longuet said. A French jet fired
its cannon ahead of the convoy to block it. NTC forces then
closed in on the blocked convoy and Qaddafi was killed in the
fighting, Longuet said.  Qaddafi fled from a jeep and dived into a large drain pipe,
emerging after a gun battle holding a pistol and a Kalashnikov,
a field commander identified as Mohammed al-Laith told Al
Jazeera television. Shammam told Libya TV that Qaddafi had died
while resisting arrest.  Acting Prime Minister Mahmoud Jibril said that Qaddafi was
captured alive and unharmed after NTC troops overran his
hometown of Sirte. He was caught in crossfire between the NTC
forces and loyalists while being loaded onto a truck, Jibril
said.  A doctor in Misrata identified only as Dr. Ibrahim who said
he examined the former leader’s body told Al Arabiya television
yesterday that he is 100 percent sure Qaddafi died from a
gunshot wound to the head inflicted after he was captured.  ‘Gruesome’ Videos  “The more gruesome the videos of Qaddafi, the more
questions will be raised,” said Jeff Laurenti, a UN analyst at
the Century Foundation, a New York-based research group. “This
will add to the discomfort level of those on the  Security
Council  that vacillated before giving the green light.”  The U.S., Britain and  France  persuaded Russia and  China  to
abstain from the March vote that allowed “all necessary
measures” to protect civilians from Qaddafi’s forces.  While the most powerful UN body acted quickly against
Qaddafi, critics led by Russia have argued in the ensuing months
that the resolution, sold as a way to protect civilians, instead
became a pretext for regime change and must not be repeated.  Russian parliamentary official Konstantin Kosachyov said on
his blog yesterday that “at first glance” Qaddafi’s killing
“looks like a mob lynching.”  An investigation of Qaddafi’s death would be a “good
idea,”  South Africa ’s envoy to the UN, Baso Bangqu, said
yesterday in  New York . South Africa, as a member of the Security
Council, voted in favor of NATO intervention in Libya.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net ;
Flavia Krause-Jackson at the United Nations at   fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  