-- 
Abbott Spinoff Unlikely to Attract Takeover Bid, Bernstein Says

-- B y   P h i l   S e r a f i n o
-- 
2011-10-21T06:39:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/abbott-spinoff-unlikely-to-attract-takeover-bid-bernstein-says.html
Abbott Laboratories (ABT) ’ prescription-
drug spinoff may fail to attract a takeover bid from a
pharmaceutical company because the business doesn’t offer enough
potential growth, Sanford C. Bernstein Co. analysts said.  Revenue is unlikely to increase much at Abbott’s drug
business in coming years as products lose patent protection, the
analysts, including  Tim Anderson  in  New York  and  Jack Scannell 
in London, wrote in a research report.  Humira, an anti-inflammatory with $6.5 billion in annual
sales, is Abbott’s biggest-selling product. The drug may face
competition in the second half of 2012 if a new treatment from
 Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , tofacitinib, reaches the market, the analysts
wrote. A generic version of an existing Pfizer product, the
biological drug Enbrel, may arrive in 2014 or 2015, adding to
the competition, they said.  “With the long-term future of Humira likely tailing off,
we are hard-pressed to see the U.S. and European major drug
companies we cover wanting to snatch up Humira and the other $10
billion worth of Abbott products,” the analysts wrote.  Planned Split  Abbott, based in Abbott Park, Illinois, said Oct. 19 that
it will split next year, with one company selling medical
products and the other prescription medicines. Merck & Co.,
 Roche Holding AG (ROG)  or  Bayer AG (BAYN)  may be interested in bidding for
the prescription-drug business, said Jeffrey Holford, a
Jefferies Group Inc. analyst. Those companies declined to
comment yesterday.  Merck and Roche have therapies similar to Humira that
probably would prevent them from bidding, the Bernstein analysts
said.  Abbott’s late-stage experimental medicines also don’t
provide a rationale for a bid, the analysts wrote. “There are
some interesting prospects, but too much uncertainty remains for
the moment,” they said.  Big mergers between drug companies also seem to be out of
fashion, in part because they have hurt research productivity,
the Bernstein analysts said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Serafino in Paris at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  