-- 
Abbott Said to Agree to Pay $1.3 Billion for Depakote Suits

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 
2011-10-21T21:07:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/abbott-said-to-agree-to-pay-1-3-billion-to-end-depakote-suits.html
Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  agreed to pay at
least $1.3 billion to settle claims by the U.S. government and
24 states alleging the company illegally marketed its Depakote
epilepsy drug, people familiar with the accords said.  Abbott executives, federal prosecutors and state officials
reached a tentative agreement calling for the drugmaker to pay
about $800 million to resolve civil claims over  Depakote  and
about $500 million in criminal penalties for marketing the
epilepsy medicine for unapproved uses, said three people
familiar with the settlement who declined to be identified
because the agreement hasn’t been made public. Abbott said
earlier this week it was reserving $1.5 billion to cover costs
of the potential settlement.  “Settlement negotiations are ongoing,”  Scott Stoffel , a
spokesman for Abbott, said in a phone interview today. He
declined to comment further.  Charles Miller , a U.S. Justice
Department spokesman, had no comment on the settlement.  The Abbott Park, Illinois-based company said Oct. 19 that
it will split next year, with one company selling medical
products and the other prescription medicines. Powered by
Humira, an anti-inflammatory with $6.5 billion in annual sales,
the new drugmaker may attract a bid from Merck & Co.,  Roche
Holding AG  or Bayer AG, said Jeffrey Holford, a Jefferies Group
Inc. analyst.  Third-Biggest Settlement  The settlement would be the third-largest illegal
pharmaceutical marketing accord in U.S. history, behind the $2.3
billion Pfizer paid in 2009 over the marketing of its Bextra
painkiller and other drugs and the $1.4 billion  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) 
paid the same year over sales of its Zyprexa anti-psychotic
medicine.  Abbott fell 19 cents to close at $53.86 in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares fell about 1 percent
earlier in the day. They’ve gained more than 12 percent this
year.  Justice Department officials said in June they were
“engaged in active settlement discussions” with Abbott over
its Depakote marketing practices. In February, the government
joined cases brought by former Abbott employees alleging the
company engaged in so-called off-label marketing starting in the
late 1990s. The suits contend the illegal sales practices
resulted in false claims being submitted to government health
programs.  $1.4 Billion Sales  The whistle-blowers claim the drugmaker marketed Depakote
for unapproved uses including agitation and aggression in
patients with dementia, autism, sexual compulsion and other
disorders.  Federal regulators only approved Depakote for the
prevention of migraines, treating acute manic episodes in
bipolar patients and halting seizures in adults and children.  Under U.S. law, a doctor can prescribe a medicine for any
condition as long as it’s licensed by the  U.S. Food and Drug
Administration  and is proven to be safe and effective. Drug
companies aren’t allowed to promote a drug for uses other than
those approved.  Sales of Depakote “rocketed to over $1.4 billion per
year” as a result of improper marketing, according to a
complaint filed in February by ex-Abbott sales representative
Meredith McCoyd. “Compensation for senior executives soared as
well.”  Abbott began marketing to elderly patients with Alzheimer’s
and dementia in about 1998, McCoyd said in the complaint. Abbott
knew that Depakote “was unapproved for the treatment of
Alzheimer’s, did not work to treat the disease and was actually
dangerous for use by the elderly,” McCoyd said.  Whistle-Blower Accords  McCoyd’s suit was initially filed under seal in 2007, under
the rules of the federal  False Claims Act . Three other whistle-
blower suits, also claiming off-label marketing, were
consolidated with McCoyd’s suit in federal court in Abingdon,
 Virginia .  McCoyd filed the suit on behalf of the federal government,
24 states, the  District of Columbia  and the city of  Chicago . The
U.S. and the states joined McCoyd’s claim in February.  The $1.3 billion settlement would also resolve the whistle-
blower claims. The final settlement could be announced as early
as December, the people familiar with the accord said.  The whistle-blowers will share at least 15 percent of the
federal civil recovery portion of the settlement, according to
federal False Claims Act provisions. They also will receive
shares of some money paid to the states, said  Patrick Burns  of
Taxpayers Against Fraud, a Washington nonprofit group that backs
whistle-blower suits.  ‘Global’ Settlement  “This settlement will be a global one, including the
federal government and all states, unless they opt out, which is
unlikely,” Burns said in a telephone interview today.  It’s the second illegal marketing settlement the government
has reached with a maker of an epilepsy drug. In 2004,  Pfizer
Inc. (PFE) ’s Warner-Lambert unit pleaded guilty to federal criminal
charges over illegal marketing of its Neurontin epilepsy drug
and paid a $430 million to resolve both criminal and civil
claims over the medication.  The Depakote case is U.S. ex rel. McCoyd v. Abbott
Laboratories, 1:07-cv-00081, U.S. District Court, Western
District of Virginia (Abingdon).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington,  Delaware , at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield,
 Michigan , at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 