-- 
Abbott Touts $4 Billion in Drug Sales as It Pitches Spinoff

-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 
2011-10-21T20:05:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/abbott-touts-4-billion-in-new-drug-sales-as-it-pitches-spinoff.html
Abbott Laboratories (ABT) , seeking to sell
investors on its proposed breakup, said a pharmaceutical spinoff
may gain $4 billion in extra revenue from three new therapies
and expanded uses of autoimmune drug Humira.  The added revenue would come partly from drugs in
development for chronic kidney disease, hepatitis C and multiple
sclerosis that are expected to reach the market by 2015, said
Richard Gonzalez, the chief-executive-to-be of the new business.
That would add to $18 billion in sales already generated, he
told investors at a conference in New York.  “On an $18 billion pharma business, that’s a significant
growth rate,” Gonzalez said. “We feel good about the pipeline
we have in place.”  Abbott, based in  Abbott Park , Illinois, said Oct. 19 it
plans to divide into two publicly traded companies next year,
with one focused on  prescription drugs  and the other on products
including medical devices,  infant formula  and generic drugs.
Chief Executive Officer  Miles White  said the split would boost
investor interest in businesses that had been undervalued.  Gonzalez’s sales projections sound “aggressive,” said Tim Hoyle, director of research at Haverford Financial Services in
Radnor,  Pennsylvania . The firm oversees $6 billion, including
1.3 million Abbott shares.  While Humira, expected to generate $8 billion in sales this
year, should remain strong, the other drugs are unproven, Hoyle
said today in a telephone interview.  ‘Show-Me Stock’  “They’ve never been known to be a good R&D company,” he
said of Abbott, which gained Humira in a 2001 acquisition. “To
me, it’s a show-me stock in terms of the pipeline: Show me you
can take something you’ve developed and turn it into a billion-
dollar drug.”  Abbott declined less than 1 percent to $53.86 at 4 p.m. New
York time. Before today, the company had gained 3 percent since
the breakup announcement.  Gonzalez said bardoxolone, a drug for chronic  kidney
disease , may generate $1 billion in sales and go on sale in
2014. Abbott owns rights for the drug in most places outside the
U.S., save for parts of  Asia . It has had talks with the drug’s
developer, closely held Reata Pharmaceuticals Inc. of Irving,
Texas, about sharing sales within the U.S., Gonzalez said.  Daclizumab, the multiple sclerosis treatment, should be on
sale by 2015, as will compounds being tested for hepatitis C,
the company said. At the same time, the new drug business will
seek approval to use Humira in six more disorders, he said. The
medicine is already approved for six conditions, including
rheumatoid arthritis and psoriasis.  China  Sales  The health-products company, which will keep the Abbott
name, is also poised for growth, particularly in emerging
markets, said White, the current CEO. Its nutritional unit,
which had $5.53 billion in revenue last year, expects to reach
$1 billion in sales in China alone by 2014, he said.  White made “a strong case” for splitting Abbott at the
meeting, said  Michael Weinstein , a JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst,
in an interview. Still, investors are uncertain how much the two
new companies will be worth, he said.  Abbott has “a more aggressive outlook for both businesses
than the street,” he said.  “That’ll be part of the discussion
going forward -- whether the growth outlook is sustainable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in  New York  
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   Rgale5@bloomberg.net  