-- 
Abraaj to Invest in Southeast Asia Mining to Tap Regional Demand

-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 
2011-10-21T01:39:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/abraaj-to-invest-in-southeast-asia-mining-to-tap-regional-demand.html
Abraaj Capital Ltd., the  Middle
East ’s biggest private equity firm, plans to invest part of a $2
billion fund in Southeast Asian natural resources to meet rising
regional demand for coal, metals and agricultural products.  Copper and tin mines in Indonesia, as well as ancillary
services tied to mining or agriculture, are of interest to
Dubai-based Abraaj, Aman Lakhaney, a principal at Abraaj Capital
 Asia  Pte, said in an interview in  Singapore . Agriculture-related
investments will be focused primarily in Vietnam and Malaysia,
he said.  Abraaj would follow funds including Nathaniel Rothschild’s
Bumi Plc into Indonesia,  Southeast Asia ’s largest economy. The
country supplies energy-assets and commodities to Asia’s
fastest-growing economies including China, where companies have
announced or completed $64.1 billion in natural resource
takeovers this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “ Indonesia , given its size, growth and the history of
deals in the resources and mining sectors, is obviously the most
important market for us in the region,” said Lakhaney, 32.  Abraaj also plans to buy minority stakes in education,
health care, logistics, financial, manufacturing and retail
companies in Southeast Asia and  India , said Lakhaney. Abraaj set
up its Singapore office in January and began standalone
operations in India in March.  The firm had been operating in India since 2006 through a
joint venture with Sabre Capital Worldwide Inc. and owns stakes
in three infrastructure companies and an art dealer in the
country, according to Abraaj’s website.  Strategic Location  Indonesia is the largest exporter of power-station coal
with proven coal reserves of 5,529 million tonnes at the end of
last year, according to BP Plc’s Statistical Review of World
Energy report issued in June.  “Indonesia has been blessed with an abundance of natural
resources and a great logistical advantage,” Pankaj Bhasin,
managing director of Singapore-based Kitty Hawk Pte, a company
that has invested $4 million in Indonesia’s coal sector, said in
an e-mailed response to questions on Oct. 12. “The nation is
strategically located to supply resources to hungry giants --
India and  China  -- and also to supplement requirements of other
large Asian players.”  Mergers and acquisitions transactions involving oil & gas
drilling, oil exploration, metals mining, iron and steel, and
coal companies in China have totaled 355 deals this year,
compared with 473 deals for all of last year valued at $82.6
billion, according to Bloomberg data.  Existing Investments  Abraaj, which has about $6.2 billion in assets under
management, has four employees in the region including
Singapore-based Omar Lodhi, who is responsible for Abraaj’s
investments in Southeast Asia and India. It intends to have
eight analysts and fund managers each in the Singapore and India
offices, Lakhaney said, without providing a timeframe.  The firm has been an investor in the Middle East, North
Africa and  Pakistan  since early in the last decade, according to
its website. It is currently invested in 23 companies, including
Sharjah-based  Air Arabia  and Pakistan’s Karachi Electric Supply
Co. Expansion in Southeast Asia would also be used to help
current holdings expand in the region, Lakhaney said.  Other existing investments include a stake in Karachi-based
 Byco Petroleum Pakistan Ltd. (BYCO) , an oil refining and petroleum
marketing company with a market value of 7.29 billion rupees
($84 million), and  Egypt ’s  Orascom Construction Industries (OCIC) , a
construction and fertilizers company that has a market
capitalization of 47.3 billion Egyptian pounds ($7.92 billion).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  