-- 
Malaysia’s Inflation Unexpectedly Quickens on Food, Transport

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   M i c h a e l   M u n o z
-- 
2011-10-21T09:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/malaysia-s-inflation-unexpectedly-quickens-on-food-transport.html
Malaysia ’s inflation unexpectedly
quickened in September as food and transportation costs climbed
and a weakening ringgit made imports costlier.  Consumer prices rose 3.4 percent from a year earlier after
climbing 3.3 percent in August, according to a report by the
Putrajaya-based statistics department today. The median estimate
of 18 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 3.3
percent increase.  Europe ’s debt crisis and a faltering U.S. recovery have
hurt demand for Asian goods, raising the danger to regional
growth and prompting Asian central banks to refrain from raising
 interest rates  or start to lower borrowing costs. The Malaysian
government cut its forecast for economic expansion in 2011 this
month and said there is “added pressure” to use fiscal
resources to bolster growth.  “Domestic inflationary pressure is what’s keeping headline
inflation elevated,”  Irvin Seah , an economist at DBS Group
Holdings Ltd. in Singapore, said before the report. “There are
upside risks to inflation given that massive floods in
neighboring countries such as  Thailand  will drive imported food
prices to Malaysia higher.”  Thailand, the world’s largest rice exporter, may lose 6
million metric tons of unmilled rice as floods damage key
plantation areas, Apichart Jongskul, secretary-general of the
Office of Agricultural Economics, said today.  Malaysia’s ringgit fell about 7 percent against the dollar
in September, along with most other Asian currencies, as a
deepening European debt crisis prompted investors to shun
emerging-market assets.  Bank Negara Malaysia  left the overnight policy rate at 3
percent on Sept. 8 for a second meeting, saying a “more
challenging” external environment has increased the “downside
risks” to Malaysia’s economy. The nation will probably expand 5
percent to 5.5 percent this year, the government said Oct. 7,
lower than an earlier target of as much as 6 percent.  Consumer prices will probably rise 3 percent to 3.5 percent
in 2011, central bank Governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz said Sept. 25.
The monetary authority will hold its final policy meeting this
year on Nov. 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in  Singapore  at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  