-- 
AMAG Fails to Get Sufficient Votes for Acquisition of Allos

-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 
2011-10-21T20:14:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/amag-didn-t-get-sufficient-votes-for-acquisition-of-allos.html
AMAG Pharmaceuticals Inc. (AMAG) , maker of
the anemia drug Feraheme, said today it didn’t get enough
investor votes to support its $184.8 million acquisition of
 Allos Therapeutics Inc. (ALTH)   Allos, maker of the cancer medicine Folotyn, will receive
$2 million to cover expenses related to the proposed deal,
Lexington, Massachusetts-based AMAG said today in a statement.
The drugmaker had been working with Westminster, Colorado-based
Allos to complete the all-stock acquisition valued at $2.44 a
share when announced in July. Based on yesterday’s closing price
the value had fallen to $1.75 a share.  The accord had faced opposition from investors including
hedge fund MSMB Capital Management, which said the company was
overpaying. The drugmaker now is finalizing plans to “align our
expense structure” with sales projections for Feraheme, Chief
Executive Officer Brian J.G. Pereira said in the statement.  “It was not the most-popular deal,” Christopher Raymond,
an analyst with Robert W. Baird & Co. in  Chicago , wrote in a
research note today. “Feraheme as a stand-alone business does
have inherent value, and we continue to believe a focused,
efficient commercial effort to grow the drug is likely to be
just as helpful for the stock.”  Shares React  Allos rose 0.7 percent to $1.47 at 4 p.m. New York time.
The shares are down 68 percent this year. AMAG fell 0.6 percent
to $13.56, and the shares have fallen 25 percent this year.  “While our strategy of adding products to our portfolio to
leverage our infrastructure is important to our long-term
success, we are committed to pursuing all opportunities to
enhance stockholder value,” AMAG’s Pereira said.  AMAG had wanted to buy Allos to gain Folotyn, which AMAG
said has a common customer base.  MSMB, which owned 5.9 percent of AMAG as of Oct. 7, had
made an unsolicited bid to buy the company in August for $18 a
share, or $378 million. Martin Shkreli, MSMB’s chief investment
officer, said today his plans still stand.  “I have a whole management team and board of directors
ready to go tomorrow,” Shkreli said in a telephone interview
today. On AMAG’s plans for its cost structure, Shkreli said the
company should cut jobs.  “We’ve identified 70 jobs that can be cut from AMAG,” the
investor said. None of the reductions would be from the sales
force, which he’d like to expand, he said.  Allos Shareholders Vote  Allos shareholders voted for the deal in a separate meeting
today, Allos said in a statement. The company is “well-
capitalized to fund operations through early 2014,” Monique Greer, a spokeswoman for Allos, said in a telephone interview
today.  “We’re prepared right now to continue operating as we
always have been,” Greer said. As for selling the company,
“there’s no urgency, but of course it would be the board’s
fiduciary responsibility to review any reasonable offers we
might receive,” she said.  Allos had received another offer from an unidentified
bidder, for $2.20 a share in cash and stock. That company
withdrew its offer earlier this month, Allos said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  