-- 
Man. City Won’t Charge Tevez With Refusing to Play, Mail Reports: Roundup

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-10-21T10:46:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/man-city-won-t-charge-tevez-with-refusing-to-play-mail-reports-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers with clickable links to the Web.  Backing Down  Manchester City has backed down from manager  Roberto Mancini ’s claim that Carlos Tevez refused to play at Bayern
Munich, the  Daily Mail said .  City officials will tell Tevez at a hearing today he won’t
face the refusal charge as none of the club’s staff or players
who were on the bench, including assistants David Platt and
Brian Kidd, can verify the manager’s claim the Argentine
wouldn’t come on during the Champions League match, the Mail
said.  Tevez was suspended and Mancini said he would never play
again for the Blues. He’ll now just face a charge of refusing to
warm up, the Mail said.  Top Dogs  City’s Nigel de Jong stoked the fires for this weekend’s
match at rival  Manchester United  by saying the Blues are now the
top team in the country, the Sun reported.  City tops the standings by two points over United heading
into the showdown at Old Trafford in two days. De Jong says the
Blues deserve the top spot and that the power has shifted to
City.  “We’re going there as No. 1 and the aim is to stay No.
1,” the Sun quoted the Dutchman as saying. “We don’t have any
point to prove. We’ve shown our quality throughout the season.
We don’t need a game against United to show how good we are.”  Olympian Rooney?  Wayne Rooney  could play for  Great Britain  at the 2012
 London  Olympics after being suspended for three matches at the
European Championship, the  Guardian said .  It is unlikely that any player who features heavily at the
continental competition in Poland and Ukraine would be selected
for the Olympics, but the Football Association has opened the
door for those who don’t play much to take part, the Guardian
said. That could include Rooney if his ban is upheld by UEFA and
 England  is eliminated in the group stage, the Guardian said.  The England squad will be made up of 15 under-23 players
and three over-age players, who will be named before the Euro
tournament begins. David Beckham, Ryan Giggs, Michael Owen and
Joe Cole have been mentioned as candidates to fill the over-age
spots, the Guardian said.  Chelsea Joins the Race  Chelsea and  Inter Milan  have entered the race to sign Lille
winger Eden Hazard, a target of Arsenal, the  Daily Mirror  said.  Manchester City  and Liverpool are also watching the 20-
year-old and Lille is trying to start an auction to get 20
million pounds ($32 million) for the Belgian playmaker, the
Mirror said.  Hazard was linked with a summer move to Arsenal but a deal
couldn’t be reached.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 