-- 
Android Tablets Gained on IPad in Third Quarter

-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 
2011-10-21T07:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/android-tablets-gained-on-ipad-in-third-quarter-researcher-says.html
Sales of tablet computers running
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software rose last quarter at the expense
of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad, after companies led by Samsung Electronics
Co. introduced new models, according to a researcher.  Android-powered tablet computers accounted for 27 percent
of global sales during the three-month period, jumping from 2.3
percent a year earlier,  Strategy Analytics  said in a statement
today. The iPad’s share fell to 67 percent from 96 percent.  Companies from Samsung to  Acer Inc. (2353)  are counting on
Android, the most popular operating system for mobile phones, to
help dent Apple’s dominance in the surging tablet market.
Competition between Android devices and the iPad may further
intensify as Amazon.com joins in with a product at half the
price of the Apple gadget, Strategy Analytics said.  “Amazon’s strategy of minimizing its hardware price is set
to ignite the entry-level tablet segment and attract more mass-
market consumers,”  Neil Mawston , a London-based director for
the research company, said in the statement.  Samsung -- whose Galaxy tablet computers have been blocked
by Apple in Germany and Australia in patent disputes -- was the
biggest seller of Android tablets with about a 9 percent share
of the overall market, Thomas Kang, a Seoul-based research
director for Strategy Analytics, said by phone today. The South
Korean company was followed by  Asustek Computer Inc. (2357) , Acer and
Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc., according to Kang who said the
breakdown figures were yet to be completed.  Total tablet sales amounted to 16.7 million units in the
third quarter, more than tripling from 4.4 million a year
earlier, according to the Boston-based researcher.  Strategy Analytics said on Sept. 29 Amazon will sell more
than 15 million units of its latest Kindle Fire tablet by the
end of 2013. The 7-inch Android device will go on sale Nov. 15
for as little as $199, compared with $499 for the cheapest iPad.  Google, stepping up efforts to challenge Apple, this week
unveiled the latest version of Android, named  Ice Cream
Sandwich , its first offering designed for both phones and
tablets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  