-- 
Andrew Madoff Seeks Appeal in $198M Suit

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-10-21T20:08:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/andrew-madoff-seeks-to-appeal-ruling-in-198-million-lawsuit-1-.html
Andrew Madoff’s request to appeal a
$198 million lawsuit by the liquidator of BernardMadoff’s firm
was “not warranted” and the case should go to trial, the
trustee said.  Trustee Irving Picard won a court ruling last month
permitting him to pursue most claims in a 2009 lawsuit alleging
that the Madoffs treated the now-defunct firm, Bernard L. Madoff
Investment Securities LLC, as their “family piggy bank.”  The
con man’s son, Andrew, asked a district judge to allow an
appeal, saying the suit would result in a “massive expansion of
liability” for bank and corporate managers who might be blamed
for wrongdoing they hadn’t detected.  “Andrew Madoff seeks to mire this case in pre-trial motion
practice by moving for leave to appeal the bankruptcy court’s
well reasoned decision,” Picard said in a filing yesterday in
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in New York.  Madoff family members were “ultimate” insiders at the
Madoff firm, not employees at a big investment firm where a
rogue trader might go undiscovered for a while, Picard said in
the filing.  Andrew Madoff filed notice of his appeal request on behalf
of himself and as executor of his late brother Mark’s estate in
U.S. Bankruptcy Court in  Manhattan  on Oct. 6.  In his lawsuit, Picard said that Madoff family members
profited from the fraud, including Bernard’s brother  Peter Madoff , sons Andrew and Mark Madoff and niece Shana Madoff Swanson, all of whom held senior positions at the Madoff firm.  $198 Million  Instead of preventing the crime, they took $198 million in
investor money from the New York-based money-management firm to
finance a business venture and pay for restaurants, vacations
and clothing, as well as to buy cars, boats and vacation homes,
he said.  Picard didn’t try to prove in his complaint that the family
“engaged in any kind of  securities fraud , dishonesty, or
deception,” only that they were derelict in their duty and
misused company funds, he said in yesterday’s filing.  “Those claims are unrelated to any investment advice or
decisions; they arise from the defendants’ derelictions of duty
and faithless service as the senior supervisory and compliance
officials at a firm where a massive fraud was perpetrated on
their watch,” he said.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Burton Lifland  dismissed some claims
in the case while allowing Picard to file a new complaint.  Peter Madoff was chief compliance officer at New York-based
Madoff Securities. Andrew and Mark were co-directors of trading,
and Shana Madoff was compliance director.  Mark Madoff killed himself in December. In a memoir
published this week, his widow, Stephanie Madoff Mack, said her
husband was innocent of wrongdoing. She blamed his suicide on
 Bernard Madoff .  No Knowledge  Martin Flumenbaum , a lawyer for Andrew Madoff and Mark
Madoff’s estate, has said the Madoff sons didn’t know of their
father’s scheme and contacted prosecutors after their father
told them of his fraud. Bernard Madoff is serving a 150-year
prison term.  In refusing to dismiss Picard’s suit, Lifland said last
month that the family’s failure to stop the fraud was
“unsurprising given their close familial relationship with
Madoff and proximity” to his firm. Picard’s suit contains
“some correctable pleading deficiencies” that need to be
amended in a new complaint, he said.  The case is Picard v. Madoff, 09-1503, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in  New York 
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 