-- 
Jobs Told Google’s Page to Cut Bloat to Avoid Becoming Microsoft

-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o   a n d   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 
2011-10-22T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/apple-s-cook-won-jobs-s-trust-early-book.html
Apple Inc. co-founder  Steve Jobs 
urged  Google Inc. (GOOG)  Chief Executive Officer Larry Page to sharpen
the company’s focus and cut products that put it at risk of
becoming like  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , according to a biography of Jobs.  While Jobs was a vigorous competitor, he also came to view
himself as an elder statesman with a responsibility for giving
advice to Google’s Page, Facebook Inc. CEO  Mark Zuckerberg  and
other emerging technology executives, according to “Steve
Jobs,” an authorized biography by Walter Isaacson and published
by  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s  Simon & Schuster . It goes on sale Oct. 24.  “I described the blocking and tackling he would have to do
to keep the company from getting flabby or being larded with B
players,” Jobs said of the meeting with Page this year in his
living room. “Figure out what Google wants to be when it grows
up. It’s now all over the map. What are the five products you
want to focus on? Get rid of the rest, because they’re dragging
you down. They’re turning you into Microsoft.”  Page, a co-founder of Google, sought the advice earlier
this year, soon after he was named successor to  Eric Schmidt .  Jobs told Isaacson that his first impulse was to refuse the
request. Jobs had grown incensed over Google’s foray into
smartphones, a market Apple entered in 2007 with the iPhone.
Jobs then reflected on how  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  co-founder
William Hewlett had helped him earlier in his career.  Jobs said he intended to advise other executives in the
succeeding months.  Zuckerberg’s Generation  “I will continue to do that with people like Mark
Zuckerberg, too,” Jobs said. “That’s how I’m going to spend
part of the time I have left. I can help the next generation
remember the lineage of great companies here and how to continue
the tradition. The Valley has been very supportive of me. I
should do my best to repay.”  Jobs died on Oct. 5.  The biography, based on more than 40 interviews with Jobs,
also gives fresh insight into the executive’s early interaction
with  Tim Cook , who later succeeded him as CEO and is now running
the world’s most valuable technology company.  Cook, after joining  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  in 1998, quickly gained the
trust of Jobs, who had recently taken back control of the
company. Jobs initially oversaw supply chain after he returned
to Apple in 1997 following a 12-year hiatus. By turning that
responsibility over to Cook, Jobs was able to focus on product
vision and broader strategy, instead of the nitty-gritty of
manufacturing and purchasing the parts needed to build a growing
array of products.  Confidence in Ive  “I trusted him to know exactly what to do,” Jobs told
Isaacson. “He had the same vision I did, and we could interact
at a high strategic level and I could just forget about a lot of
things unless he came and pinged me.”  The book, purchased by Bloomberg, also highlights the
central role played by Jonathan Ive, senior vice president of
industrial design. Jobs considered Ive, who goes by Jony, his
“spiritual partner” who was vital to product development,
according to the book. Jobs said he set up Apple so that nobody
could tell Ive what to do.  “He understands what we do at our core better than
anyone,” Jobs said of Ive. “If I had a spiritual partner at
Apple, it’s Jony.”  Jobs said he and Ive typically dreamed up Apple products,
often having lunch together and collaborating on designs in
Ive’s studio at Apple’s Cupertino, California, campus.  Cook, the son of a shipyard worker, oversaw Apple during
Jobs’s three medical leaves as he battled a rare form of cancer
that eventually claimed his life.  Jobs on ‘Mission’  When Jobs came back from his first medical leave in 2004,
he was “on a mission,” Cook told Isaacson.  “Even though he was now running a large company he kept
making bold moves that I don’t think anybody else would have
done,” Cook said.  When Jobs hired Cook away from Compaq Computer, Jobs was
pressing the company to build so-called just-in-time factories,
where products are built as orders come in, limiting the amount
of inventory sits on shelves, which can hurt financial results.  “I knew what I wanted and I met Tim, and he wanted the
same thing,” Jobs said.  Cook sliced the number of key Apple suppliers to 24 from
100 and persuaded them to cut better financial deals or risk
losing Apple’s business, according to the book. He also closed
10 of the company’s 19 warehouses to limit where inventory could
build up. By September 1998, Cook had cut inventory down to six
days, from about a month.  Cook Avoids Limelight  Cook, who majored in industrial engineering at  Auburn
University  and earned a master’s of business administration from
 Duke University , said he knew within five minutes of meeting
with Jobs that he wanted to work for Apple.  “My intuition told me that joining Apple would be a once-
in-a-lifetime opportunity to work for a creative genius,” Cook
said. “Engineers are taught to make a decision analytically,
but there are times when relying on gut or intuition is most
indispensable.”  The book paints a picture of Cook as someone who thrived
under Jobs because he was calm and decisive, while shunning the
limelight.  “Some people resent the fact that Steve gets credit for
everything, but I’ve never given a rat’s a** about that,” Cook
said. “Frankly speaking, I’d prefer my name never be in the
paper.”  Another key to Cook’s success was learning when and how to
disagree with Jobs.  “I realized very early on that if you didn’t express your
opinion, he would mow you down,” Cook said. “He takes contrary
positions to create more discussion, because it may lead to a
better result. So if you don’t feel comfortable disagreeing,
then you’ll never survive.”  While handling day-to-day operations while Jobs was away
for a  liver transplant  in 2009, Cook said during a conference
call that Apple would thrive whoever is at the helm.  When he heard the remarks, Jobs didn’t know whether to be
“proud or hurt that it might be true,” Isaacson wrote.  When Jobs returned from getting his transplant in  Memphis 
that year, Ive and Cook met him at the airport.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Burrows in San Francisco at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  