-- 
Apple’s Board Handled Steve Jobs’s Health Matters Correctly, Gore Says

-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 
2011-10-21T10:48:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/apple-s-loyal-executives-won-t-leave-after-jobs-death-gore-says.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  board member and former
U.S. Vice President  Al Gore  said the issues related to  Steve Jobs ’s illness were handled appropriately and the founder
planned for the future by nurturing talent.  “I thought it was handled absolutely correctly,” Gore
said of Jobs’s medical condition at the All Things D technology
conference in  Hong Kong  today. “I wouldn’t change a single
thing” about how the board handled it.  Jobs, who built the world’s most valuable technology
company by introducing products including the iPhone and iPad,
died this month, eight years after being diagnosed with
pancreatic cancer. His replacement  Tim Cook  won’t face an exodus
of executives because “their loyalty to the company is quite
deep,” Gore said.  “I don’t think the executive team would split given
Apple’s reputation and momentum in the market,” said  Alexander Peterc , an analyst at Exane BNP Paribas in  London . “For those
who were thinking of leaving, they would have left already.”  Cook needs the company’s talent pool to maintain Jobs’
legacy of innovation amid rising competition from tablet
computers and smartphones that operate on Google Inc.’s Android
software. Companies led by Samsung Electronics Co. are
introducing new models in the segments previously dominated by
the products Jobs pioneered.  Apple fell in U.S. trading on Oct. 19 after profit missed
analysts’ predictions for the first time in at least six years
amid signs that customers delayed iPhone purchases before the
release of the latest model.  Secret Treatments  Jobs received secret treatments for the illness while
telling people he was cured, his authorized biographer Walter
Isaacson told  CBS News ’s “60 Minutes,” according to excerpts
released yesterday.  Gore, an Apple board member since 2007, said Jobs had
counseled employees in their final years to put their own stamp
on the organization after his passing. Jobs used to say Walt
Disney Co. had struggled after the death of its founder because
executives often asked “What would Walt do,” Gore cited Jobs
as saying.  “Don’t ask what Steve would have done, follow your own
voice,” Gore quoted Jobs as saying. Apple “had discussions at
every single board meeting about cultivating talent.”  Jobs put off cancer surgery for nine months while he sought
out spiritual and dietary therapies against the advice of his
wife, Isaacson said. Once he had the surgery he told his
employees about it while playing down the seriousness of his
condition, CBS said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  