-- 
Arizona Can’t Defend Immigration Law With Claim U.S. Lost Border Control

-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 
2011-10-22T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/arizona-counterclaims-thrown-out-in-u-s-lawsuit-to-block-immigration-law.html
A judge ruled that  Arizona  can’t
defend its immigration law by claiming the U.S. has lost
“operational  control” over the border, prompting Governor
Janice Brewer to say the U.S. Supreme Court should take up the
matter.  U.S. District Judge Susan R. Bolton in Phoenix yesterday
rejected Arizona’s latest attempt to revive an immigration law
parts of which both she and a federal appeals court ruled
unconstitutional. In April, the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in San
Francisco upheld Bolton’s July 2010 ruling that struck down
central provisions of the law, including a requirement that
police determine the immigration status of people stopped for
questioning.  This time, Arizona tried to argue that the federal
government has failed to maintain operational control of the
Arizona- Mexico  border.  “This decision makes it even more critical that the U.S.
Supreme Court hear our defense” of the law, Brewer said in an
e-mailed statement. “If the courts won’t hold the federal
government accountable -- as yesterday’s decision makes clear --
then states like Arizona need clarity in terms of the authority
they have to combat illegal immigration.”  Brewer didn’t say in the statement that she will file an
appeal to the high court. Her spokesman, Matthew Benson, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment.  Protests and Challenges  Brewer signed the law in April 2010, spurring protests and
court challenges, including the U.S. Justice Department’s
lawsuit. Opponents say the measure would invite police
interrogation and surveillance targeting people by race. Brewer
has said the law responds to the federal government’s failure to
curb illegal immigration.  Yesterday’s ruling dealt with Arizona’s counterclaims to
the government’s suit.  Arizona argued that the federal government, under the
Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of
1996 and amendments in 2008, is required to maintain
“operational control” of its border with Mexico in part by
building 700 miles of fencing, along with physical barriers and
other infrastructure, according to yesterday’s ruling.  The state’s counterclaims “do not indicate that the
federal government has completely failed or refused to act,”
Bolton said in her order. “Rather, Arizona appears to challenge
the manner in which the government has acted to complete the
infrastructure and fencing goals and achieve ‘operational
control.’”  The U.S. has “substantial discretion” in how to deploy
its resources, Bolton wrote, and Arizona can’t “challenge the
sufficiency of the government’s ongoing, non-final actions by
attempting to frame its claims as a challenge to agency
action.”  The lower-court case is U.S. v. State of Arizona, 2:10-cv-
1413, U.S. District Court, District of Arizona (Phoenix). The
appeals court case is U.S. v. State of Arizona, 10-16645, 9th
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  