-- 
Marquis de Sade Mirrors Qaddafi in RSC’s Lunatic-Filled Revival: Review

-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 
2011-10-21T07:36:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/marquis-de-sade-mirrors-qaddafi-in-rsc-s-lunatic-filled-revival-review.html
If you’ve ever looked around and
thought that the inmates must be running the asylum, you’ll feel
pleasantly affirmed by the  Royal Shakespeare Company’s  latest
production in Stratford-upon-Avon,  England .  Peter Weiss’s 1963 work has the mind-boggling title “The
Persecution and Assassination of Jean-Paul Marat as Performed by
the Inmates of the Asylum of Charenton Under the Direction of
the Marquis de Sade,” which takes almost as long to read as it
does to perform. Understandably, it’s usually shortened to
“Marat/Sade.”  The show revolves around a play within a play. In 1808, the
Marquis de Sade stages a dramatic performance within the insane
asylum in which he is incarcerated. The director of the asylum,
proud of his liberal attitudes, believes in art as a
rehabilitating force for the inmates.  De Sade’s play deals with the 1793 assassination of Jean-
Paul Marat, one of the leaders of the French Revolution, by a
young woman named Charlotte Corday.  It’s all very Brechtian. Characters step out of role to
address each other. There are songs, both caustic and political.
The inmates include a sex maniac and a narcoleptic who
occasionally forget their lines.  That’s a euphemistic way of describing it. There’s no such
holding back on stage. It’s a mad, whirling piece, brutal and
sometimes funny. It’s also intellectually dazzling. At its heart
is an argument between Marat and de Sade about the state of
humanity. Marat believes mankind can be improved by force, and
can be made to live more collectively.  Pleasure, Pain  De Sade believes in pure individualism. For him, the only
way to survive the pain of existence is to turn inward, and to
search for annihilation through physical pleasure and pain.  As in all great drama, the argument is finally unresolved.
It must rank as one of the least didactic of political pieces.
It’s the journey through the ideas which provides the
excitement.  In one memorable scene, de Sade outlines his theory while
being voluntarily bound and tortured in a woman’s loose chemise.  When the RSC first staged “Marat/Sade” in 1964, some
theater-goers considered scenes like this disgusting in the
extreme. Nowadays, we’re so used to depictions of torture-porn
on our stages, that there are unlikely to be many who feel the
need to reach for the sick-bag. We’ll probably even see them on
“The Teletubbies” soon.  That 1964 production was a seminal staging for the company,
then just three years old. A transfer to Broadway garnered
terrific reviews. There was a well-received film in 1967 with
Glenda Jackson as Charlotte Corday.  Arab Spring  As part of its 50th anniversary celebrations, the RSC is
revisiting it in a new production by Anthony Neilson. He updates
the action to a contemporary setting, with strong references to
the Arab Spring.  Marat is played by Arsher Ali, an actor of Arab heritage.
Charlotte Corday (Imogen Doel) is dressed as a Palestinian
freedom-fighter. The means of repression is the taser gun. The
inmates are all controlled by individual mobile phones, which
beep every time they get over-excited.  Opening on the day in which  Muammar Qaddafi  was killed, the
play’s examination of assassination as a political tool couldn’t
feel more relevant. What price life? What price power? Revenge,
or justice? Is mass communication a means of freedom, or
control?  Jasper Britton (de Sade) controls the stage whenever he’s
on it, and orates with an obvious love of rhetoric. When dragged
up in blond wig and pink frock, he simpers and dimples amusingly
too. The Herald, a narrator character, is performed with
sarcastic glee and bitter humor by Lisa Hammond.  Ali, on the other hand, doesn’t find the burning center of
Marat’s dictatorial self-belief, and this unbalances the central
Marat-Sade argument somewhat.  Manic Behavior  For a show which requires eruptions of manic behavior, it’s
also a curiously detached, even sedate, production. The cast
gibber and run and shout and smear themselves with great vigor.
For all that, the sense of exquisite cruelty, the fear which
chills your marrow to its soul, is missing.  Intellectual engagement, however, there is aplenty. It’s
also the kind of large-scale ensemble piece which the RSC does
to perfection. There’s so much trust between the actors, you can
almost feel it.  A great celebration for the company. Not 50 years old.
Fifty years young. Rating: ***.  “Marat/Sade” is at the RSC Swan Theatre, Stratford-upon-
Avon. Information:  http://www.rsc.org.uk   (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  
To contact the writer on the story:
Warwick Thompson, in Stratford-upon-Avon, England, at
 warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 