-- 
Maryland Governor Wants Wind, Solar Power to Compete With Gas

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-10-21T19:19:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/maryland-governor-wants-wind-solar-power-to-compete-with-gas.html
Maryland Governor  Martin O’Malley 
asked utility regulators who are soliciting bids to build 1,500
megawatts of new  power plants  to evaluate renewable energy
projects and not restrict the process to natural gas.  O’Malley urged regulators to require that proposed budgets
for building and operating gas-fired plants include fuel costs,
in a  letter  to the Maryland Public Service Commission.  Regulators have requested bids only for gas plants and
developers aren’t required to include the price of the fuel
needed to run them. O’Malley, a Democrat, said this makes it
difficult to make an “apples to apples” comparison with wind
and solar projects.  “While current gas prices are relatively low, there are no
guarantees that such prices will continue for the duration of
the 20-year purchase agreement,” O’Malley said in yesterday’s
letter. “The commission needs to compare the price of natural
gas to the price of renewable resources such as wind and solar
that are not subject to significant fuel price volatility.”  Maryland utility regulators said last month they would seek
proposals for building power plants to meet increasing demand in
the state.  O’Malley also wants to lift a ban on utilities submitting
bids. He asked the commission to permit utilities owned by  Pepco
Holdings Inc. (POM)  and Baltimore-based  Constellation Energy Group
Inc. (CEG)  to submit bids for generation projects that they would
build and operate.  The governor is also seeking concessions from Exelon Corp.,
a Chicago-based utility holding company that’s pursuing a $7.9
billion takeover of Constellation, which operates Baltimore Gas
& Electric Co., Maryland’s largest utility.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in  New York  at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 