-- 
Asia Stocks See Biggest Weekly Drop in Month Before Europe Meet

-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a   a n d   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 
2011-10-21T23:39:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/asia-stocks-see-biggest-weekly-drop-in-month-before-europe-crisis-meeting.html
Asian stocks saw their biggest
weekly decline in a month after Germany said there would be no
quick fix to the European debt crisis ahead of a regional summit
this weekend.  Esprit Holdings Ltd. (330) , a clothier that gets most of its
revenue in  Europe , dropped 9.3 percent in Hong Kong this week.
Rio Tinto Group, the world’s second-largest miner by sales,
dropped 8.4 percent in Sydney as commodity prices tumbled.
 Olympus Corp. (7733) , which is embroiled in a scandal over payments to
advisers, plunged 40 percent, erasing $4.4 billion in market
value for the maker of cameras and endoscopes.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 0.7 percent, its steepest
weekly fall since the period ended Sept. 23, on concern European
policy makers will struggle to reach a resolution at a summit
this weekend. The Asian benchmark has tumbled about 16 percent
this year amid concern Europe’s debt crisis will spread, cutting
the value of shares on the index to about 11.8 times estimated
earnings on average.  “There’s a lot of information and a lot of uncertainty
whether this weekend’s meeting will come out with a definitive
plan,” said  Stephen Halmarick , Sydney-based head of investment
markets research at Colonial First State Global Asset Management,
which oversees about $150 billion. “The market remains very
vulnerable.”  Index Moves  Japan ’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average declined 0.8 percent,
while South Korea’s Kospi Index rose 0.2 percent. Australia’s
S&P/ASX 200 dropped 1.5 percent.  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index slid 2.6 percent this week
after  China ’s economy grew last quarter at the slowest pace
since 2009. The Shanghai Composite Index sank 4.7 percent.
Bangkok’s SET Index lost 4.1 percent as the worst flooding in 50
years shut factories and disrupted supply chains.  Asian stocks declined after German  Chancellor Angela
Merkel  said the planned Oct. 23 summit won’t provide a
definitive solution to Europe’s crisis. Hurdles to a deal
include resistance from bankers to a deeper restructuring of
Greek debt as well as disagreements between Europe’s capitals
over how to multiply the firepower of their bailout fund and
recapitalize financial institutions.  ‘Long-Term Work’  “These sovereign debts have built up over decades, so they
won’t be ended with one summit,” Merkel told reporters in
Berlin on Oct. 18. “This will require tough, long-term work.”  Esprit, which depends on Europe for 79 percent of its sales,
slid 9.3 percent to HK$10.52 this week in Hong Kong.  Billabong
International Ltd. (BBG) , a surfwear maker that gets about 70 percent
of sales from the Americas and Europe, dropped 4.3 percent to
A$3.54 in Sydney.  Stocks also fell this week amid signs the U.S. recovery is
slowing. The  Federal Reserve ’s Beige Book survey showed
companies reported more doubt about the economy.  “U.S. economic conditions don’t appear to be getting any
better, and in fact there’s some risk it might get worse,” said
 Angus Gluskie , who manages more than $300 million at White Funds
Management in Sydney. “That doesn’t give investors much comfort
at all.”  Asian commodity producers dropped as the price of metals
and oil plunged. Rio Tinto slumped 8.4 percent to 62.57 yen this
week in Sydney. Jiangxi Copper Co., China’s No. 1 producer of
the metal, declined 7.9 percent in Hong Kong.  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058) ,
Japan’s biggest trading company by market value, slid 5.3
percent in  Tokyo .  Metals Tumble  The London Metal Exchange Index, a measure of six metals,
tumbled 8.8 percent this week through Oct. 20, while crude oil
for November delivery retreated 1.1 percent over the period.  Chinese developers dropped after a report the mainland
recorded 9.1 percent growth last quarter, the slowest in two
years.  Poly Real Estate Group Co., a mainland developer, tumbled
8.4 percent to 8.52 yuan, and Angang Steel Co., a mainland steel
products maker, sank 6.6 percent in Shanghai.  Anta Sports
Products Ltd. (2020) , China’s second-biggest footwear company, declined
21 percent to HK$6.42 in Hong Kong after saying sales growth may
slow in the third quarter.  Olympus tumbled 40 percent to 1,231 yen this week in Tokyo,
the worst performer on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index. Dismissed
President Michael C. Woodford made public a
PricewaterhouseCoopers report he commissioned that said the
company had paid advisers $687 million in fees for its $2
billion acquisition of Gyrus Group. The fees were double the
amount Chairman Tsuyoshi Kikukawa disclosed before admitting to
the full sum.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in  Hong Kong  at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net ;
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  