-- 
Stocks, Copper, Euro Gain on Optimism Over Europe Debt; Yen Reaches Record

-- B y   A n d r e w   R u m m e r   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-10-21T21:28:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/asian-stocks-copper-gain-before-european-debt-summit-swiss-franc-rises.html
Stocks advanced, driving U.S. shares
to a two-month high, as commodities and the euro rose on
speculation  Europe  is moving closer to resolving its debt crisis
and the  Federal Reserve  may seek further monetary easing. Spain
and Italy’s government bonds gained.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 1.9 percent to
1,238.25 at 4 p.m. New York time, the highest level since Aug.
3. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index climbed 2.5 percent, erasing a
weekly loss. Copper futures surged 5.4 percent, the most since
June 2009. Oil for December delivery increased 1.6 percent. The
euro advanced 0.8 percent, and the yen rose to a post-World War
II high versus the dollar of 75.82. Spain’s 10-year debt broke a
nine-day losing streak, and the yield on Italian 10-year notes
dropped below 6 percent.  European finance ministers began a six-day negotiation
aimed at preventing a Greek default and shielding banks. They
approved a 5.8 billion euro ($8.1 billion) loan to Greece, and
 France  retreated in a clash with  Germany  over how to expand the
power of the bailout fund. The  S&P 500  extended gains after
Federal Reserve Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  said a third round of
large-scale securities purchases might become warranted.  “The market is really looking for something to grasp as
the European saga continues,”  Malcolm Polley , who oversees $1.1
billion as chief investment officer at Stewart Capital in
 Indiana , Pennsylvania, said in a telephone interview. “They are
saying that we may have a resolution. We don’t know that it will
be the case because we’ve heard that story before. Hopefully
they will finalize it.”  ‘What Works’  France softened its stance on expanding the rescue fund.
Its view that the European Financial Stability Facility should
get a banking license enabling it to borrow from the  European
Central Bank , “is not a definitive point of discussion for
us,” French Finance Minister  Francois Baroin  told reporters
today in Brussels. “What matters is what works.”  European governments may combine a temporary and permanent
rescue fund to pool as much as 940 billion euros to fight the
crisis, two people familiar with the matter said yesterday.  Aid of 256 billion euros for  Greece , Ireland and Portugal
have failed to stabilize markets or prevent the turmoil
spreading to France, co-anchor with Germany of the European
economy. Europe’s international image is “disastrous,”
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  told reporters
before the Brussels meeting. “We’re not really giving a great
example of a high standing of state governance.”  Security Purchases  Yellen said today the Fed may need to resume buying
securities to spur U.S. growth. Yesterday, Federal Reserve
Governor  Daniel Tarullo  called for resuming large-scale
purchases of mortgage bonds.  Banks in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index advanced 3.8 percent
for the third-biggest advance among 19 industries.  UniCredit SpA (UCG) 
and BNP Paribas SA, the biggest banks in Italy and France,
climbed more than 6.2 percent.  The S&P 500 climbed for a second day as all 10 industries
advanced. The measure rose a third straight week, the longest
winning streak since February. It has added 1.1 percent since
Oct. 14. McDonald’s Corp. rallied 3.7 percent as the world’s
largest restaurant chain beat the average analyst profit
estimate. Honeywell International Inc. rose 5.8 percent as a
recovery in commercial aerospace helped income climb 44 percent.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index climbed 1.4 percent, after
yesterday’s 2.7 percent drop. Brazil’s Bovespa Index increased
2.3 percent. South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  added 1.8 percent on
speculation company earnings will withstand a slowing global
economy. The Shanghai Composite Index retreated 0.6 percent,
capping the benchmark index’s steepest weekly drop in five
months, on speculation slowing economic growth and the nation’s
tighter monetary policies are hurting earnings.  Yen, Euro  Japan’s currency appreciated 0.7 percent to 76.29 yen
versus the dollar after touching a record 75.82. The euro erased
its weekly drop, ending with a 0.1 percent gain since Oct. 14.  Italy’s 10-year bond yield dropped 12 basis points to 5.89
percent. Spanish 10-year bonds snapped a nine-day decline, with
yields falling six basis points to 5.47 percent. The European
Central Bank bought small amounts of Spanish and Italian
government debt today, according to two people with direct
knowledge of the transactions, who asked not to be identified
because the deals are confidential.  The S&P GSCI Index of 24 commodities rose 1 percent.  Arabica coffee in  New York  posted its biggest gain in more
than two years as inventories fell to the lowest in a decade and
harvests were delayed in Central America. Cocoa and cotton also
gained. Futures for December delivery jumped 5.7 percent to
settle at $2.4485 a pound.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Rummer in London at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  