-- 
AT&T Says Sprint Failed to Turn Over Subpoenaed Documents in U.S. Case

-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 
2011-10-22T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/at-t-says-sprint-has-failed-to-turn-over-documents-in-u-s-case.html
AT&T Inc. (T)  told a federal judge that
Sprint Nextel Corp. should be forced to turn over documents AT&T
subpoenaed for its defense against a U.S. lawsuit seeking to
block its purchase of T-Mobile USA Inc.  AT&T asked the judge in a filing yesterday to compel Sprint
to provide the documents “immediately,” saying that the
 Overland Park , Kansas-based company has yet to respond to its
Sept. 26 subpoena seeking documents relevant to the Justice
Department’s claims against AT&T. Sprint is a so-called non-
party in the case.  “Sprint has not produced a single document,” AT&T said in
the filing. “Instead Sprint contends it is not required to
comply with the subpoena,” arguing it already turned documents
over to the  Justice Department  during its review of the $39
billion merger announced March 20, AT&T said.  Sprint hasn’t shown that the documents it already turned
over would respond to AT&T’s request, the phone company said.
Dallas-based AT&T said in the filing it was also asking for
material that wasn’t given to the Justice Department.  AT&T spokesman Michael Balmoris didn’t respond to an e-mail
seeking comment on the filing yesterday. Sprint spokesman John Taylor declined to comment on the AT&T’s demand.  Transaction Documents  AT&T has asked Sprint for documents relating to
transactions entered into since January 2004, including deals
with Nextel Communications Inc., Virgin Mobile and  Clearwire
Corp. (CLWR) , according to an Oct. 19th filing by Sprint, which has
filed its own lawsuit to halt the T-Mobile deal.  Sprint said in that filing that AT&T’s document requests
“go far beyond ordinary, non-party merger case discovery, which
focuses on the current competitive landscape, not on the details
of every transaction entered into by a competitor in the last
eight years.”  Sprint has also asked U.S. District Judge Ellen Segal Huvelle to give it access to data AT&T turned over to the
Justice Department.  The Justice Department sued AT&T and Bonn-based  Deutsche
Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Mobile unit on Aug. 31, saying a combination of
the two companies would “substantially” reduce competition.
Seven states and  Puerto Rico  joined the effort to block the
deal, which would make AT&T the biggest U.S. wireless carrier.  Threat to Competition  Sprint filed its antitrust lawsuit on Sept. 6, less than a
week after the U.S. sued. Cellular South Inc. sued on Sept. 19,
claiming the merger threatened to “substantially” cut
competition.  Judge Huvelle, overseeing all the AT&T cases, froze
document exchanges in the private lawsuits while she weighs a
bid by AT&T to dismiss them. A hearing about AT&T’s motion to
dismiss is scheduled for Oct. 24.  The government’s case is U.S. v. AT&T Inc., 11-01560;
Sprint’s case is  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  v. AT&T Inc., 11-01600; and
Cellular South’s case is Cellular South Inc. v. AT&T Inc.,
11-01690, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Fred Strasser at 
 fstrasser@bloomberg.net  