-- 
ATP World Tour Is Opposed to Plans to Extend U.S. Open Tennis to 15 Days

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-10-21T11:28:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/atp-head-is-opposed-to-plans-to-extend-u-s-open-tennis-to-fifteen-days.html
The  ATP World Tour , the governing
body of men’s tennis, is opposed to extending the U.S. Open to
fifteen days, Executive Chairman and President  Adam Helfant 
said.  The tournament, held at Flushing Meadows in  New York , has
staged a Monday men’s singles final for the past four years
because of bad weather. This year, players including second-
ranked  Rafael Nadal  of  Spain  and third-ranked  Andy Murray  of
Britain complained about the event’s scheduling, including back-
to-back semifinals and finals without a day off.  The  U.S. Tennis Association , which organizes the  U.S. Open ,
may become the first Grand Slam tournament to add one day to its
schedule and switch permanently to a Monday finish in order to
give both the men and women a day off between the last four and
the title match, it said on its website this week.  “We are pleased the U.S.T.A. is addressing as a priority
the players’ concerns about scheduling the  U.S. Open  men’s semi-
finals and finals on consecutive days,” Helfant said in an e-
mailed statement to Bloomberg News.  “However, we don’t necessarily see how the right solution
would be expanding the tournament to fifteen days. We continue
to have very open conversations with the U.S.T.A. about this.”  The semifinals of the  Davis Cup , the elite men’s team
event, are held the weekend after the U.S. Open, giving the
players who make the finals in New York less time to recover and
prepare if they played the title match on a Monday.  Djokovic was forced to retire in his Davis Cup singles
match five days after winning in New York because of the
recurrence of a lower-back injury he had also struggled with at
the Open.  Consecutive Days  The U.S. Open is the only Grand Slam event that schedules
the semifinals and finals on consecutive days. Its “Super
Saturday” format of two men’s semifinals and the women’s finals
played on one day, followed by a men’s final on the Sunday, has
been in existence since 1984.  The Australian Open,  French Open  and Wimbledon all schedule
a day off in between the semifinals and finals. Wimbledon is the
only major with a rest day in the middle of the tournament,
which is played over 13 days at the All England Club. The
Australian Open is played over 14 days, while the French Open
takes 15 days because of a Sunday start.  The men’s tennis season, which runs from January to the end
of November, is one of the longest in professional sports.
Helfant, who will leave the ATP World Tour at the end of this
year, last year oversaw an extension to the offseason by two
weeks to seven weeks from the end of 2012, so that tennis
players will have more time to rest and recuperate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh on the London sports desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  