-- 
Mattel Wins Dismissal of MGA Entertainment Antitrust Suit Over Bratz Dolls

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H y t h a
-- 
2011-10-21T04:00:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/mattel-wins-dismissal-of-mga-entertainment-antitrust-suit-over-bratz-dolls.html
Mattel Inc. (MAT)  won dismissal of an MGA
Entertainment Inc. lawsuit accusing it of antitrust violations
related to the fight between the two companies over MGA’s Bratz
dolls.  U.S. District Judge David Carter in  Santa Ana ,  California ,
said in yesterday’s ruling that MGA’s claims against Mattel
should have been, or might have been, raised in earlier
lawsuits. Carter, saying it didn’t “appear impossible for MGA
to allege anticompetitive conduct” after a cutoff date in
August 2010, gave the company until Nov. 11 to file an amended
complaint to make those claims.  MGA said in its antitrust complaint filed in February that
it sought $1 billion in damages and asked that the amount be
tripled for the alleged antitrust violations. The Van Nuys,
California-based company accused Mattel and Chief Executive
Officer Robert Eckert of embracing a “litigate MGA to death”
strategy.  A jury in April agreed with closely held MGA that El
Segundo, California-based Mattel stole its  trade secrets  when
its employees got into MGA’s showrooms at toy fairs using phony
business cards. Mattel is appealing Carter’s award of punitive
damages and fees to MGA.  In August, Carter ordered Mattel to pay MGA $225 million in
punitive damages, attorney fees and costs. That ruling brought
the total award in the trial over the Bratz doll’s origins to
$310 million.  Susan Hale, an MGA spokeswoman, didn’t immediately return
phone and e-mail messages seeking comment after regular business
hours yesterday.  The case is MGA Entertainment v. Mattel, 11-01063, U.S.
District Court, Central District of California ( Los Angeles .)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  