-- 
Australia Mulls Market Rules Changes After ASX Bid Failure

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-10-21T09:17:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/australia-moves-to-protect-critical-market-infrastructure-1-.html
Australia  began a  consultation  on
the regulation of its financial markets amid
internationalization of bourse operations, more competition and
calls for tighter scrutiny of derivatives trading.  The Council of Financial Regulators will consult for a six-
week period on the proposals, which include forcing certain
financial market infrastructure, such as clearing and settlement
facilities, to be based in Australia if it is deemed
systemically important. The consultation paper also proposes
giving regulators the power to take direct control of such
infrastructure in the event of a “crisis.”  Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan asked for a review of the
regulatory regime after he rejected Singapore Exchange Ltd.’s
$8.8 billion takeover bid for  ASX Ltd. (ASX) , Australia’s main bourse
operator, in April, saying a deal wasn’t in the country’s’
interest. Jurisdictions worldwide are reviewing regulation of
financial markets, including over-the-counter derivatives, after
the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008.  Other proposals include pre-approval by Australian
regulators of the directors of financial market operators and
strengthened powers for government overseers to insist upon
certain rules being made and enforced by operators.  “It’s too early to say whether such measures would make it
easier for someone else to come in” and bid for ASX, said  Tim Schroeders , a  fund manager  for Pengana Capital Ltd. in
 Melbourne . “But I’m not sure how attractive it would be with
any segregation of infrastructure that may or may not be
undertaken” following the consultation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 