-- 
Australia Defeats Wales 21-18 to Secure Third Place at Rugby World Cup

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-10-21T10:58:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/australia-defeats-wales-21-18-to-secure-third-place-at-rugby-world-cup.html
Australia  defeated Wales 21-18 to
secure third place at the Rugby  World Cup  and avoid three losses
at the four-yearly championship for the first time.  Berrick Barnes  scored a try and kicked a drop goal in the
rematch of the 1987 third-place playoff at Auckland’s  Eden Park 
as the Wallabies rebounded from their 20-6 semifinal loss to New
Zealand. Ben McCalman scored Australia’s other try, while  James O’Connor  booted two penalties and a conversion.  “We made the best out of a bad situation by coming
third,” Australia captain  James Horwill  said. “We go home with
our heads held high.”  After also losing to Ireland in a Sept. 17 pool match,
coach  Robbie Deans ’s squad had faced the prospect of becoming
the first Wallabies team to come away from a World Cup
tournament with three defeats. Australia won the tournament in
1991 and 1999.  Wales, which got tries through Shane Williams and Leigh
Halfpenny, had been trying to match its third place at the
inaugural tournament in 1987. The Welsh lost 9-8 to  France  in
the semifinals after captain Sam Warburton was shown a red card
for a dangerous tackle that left his team a man down for more
than an hour.  “To get to the semis is a great achievement for this
group,” said Wales stand-in captain Gethin Jenkins. “We talked
about creating history but to come fourth is still an
improvement on where we’ve been in the past couple of World
Cups.”  Final  New Zealand  faces France at Eden Park in two days in a
repeat of the 1987 final, which the top-ranked All Blacks won
for their only World Cup title.  The home team takes a 26-match winning run at the Auckland
stadium into the final. France was the last team to beat the All
Blacks there in July 1994.  Australia lost full-back  Kurtley Beale  and fly-half  Quade Cooper  to injuries in the opening 22 minutes. Beale aggravated a
hamstring that kept him out of the semifinals before New
Zealand-born Cooper, who had been jeered throughout the
tournament, injured his knee while trying a side step. He was
given an ovation by the crowd as he limped off the pitch and
again when he appeared at the medal presentation on crutches.  Cooper has a suspected ruptured anterior cruciate ligament,
Deans said at a press conference.  “He’s aware that it’s a significant injury,” Deans said.
“With technology these days he’ll come back good to go. He’ll
be back playing Super Rugby but obviously that whole experience
and adversity will challenge him. I’ve got no doubt he’ll come
out of that stronger for it.”  Half-Time Lead  The Wallabies had led 7-3 at half time through Barnes’s
12th-minute try that was converted by O’Connor.  James Hook  got
 Wales  on the scoreboard with a penalty seven minutes later.  “We played pretty good territorially and that helped us a
lot,” Barnes said in a televised interview. “That is something
we did not do last week against the All Blacks and on the back
of that we got the win tonight.”  Wales went ahead for the first time in the 49th minute.
Winger Williams controlled a low pass that appeared to be
forward with his instep, kicked on with his left foot, before
picking up the ball and diving over the line. Hook missed the
conversion.  O’Connor then booted two penalties in four minutes to put
the Wallabies ahead by five points with 23 minutes remaining and
Barnes added a drop goal from 30 meters to make it 16-8.  Jones, on as a replacement for Hook, cut the gap to five
points with a penalty before No. 8 McCalman touched down with
four minutes to go to take Australia’s lead out to 21-11.  Wales kept the ball alive to complete the scoring as
Halfpenny found himself in space to cross for a try that Jones
converted to end the game.  Wales’s three losses at the tournament were by a combined
total of five points.  “At this level you’ve got to take your opportunities,”
Wales coach Warren Gatland told reporters. “Unfortunately on
these big occasions our goal-kicking has let us down.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Auckland at  dbaynes@bloomberg.net  