-- 
Australian, New Zealand Dollars Set for Weekly Declines Before EU Summit

-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 
2011-10-21T03:35:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/australian-new-zealand-dollars-set-for-weekly-declines-before-eu-summit.html
The Australian and  New Zealand 
dollars are set for the biggest weekly declines against the yen
in a month on concern European leaders will struggle to resolve
the region’s debt crisis.  The South Pacific currencies are poised to drop against the
dollar this week after commodities prices fell, sapping demand
for riskier assets. Demand for the so-called Aussie was
supported after a report showed  Australia ’s export prices gained
in the third quarter.  “It is all about  Europe , nothing else matters,” said Kurt Magnus, executive director of currency sales in Sydney at Nomura
Holdings Inc.,  Japan ’s biggest brokerage. “The market might be
slightly short risk, short Aussie and short euro going into the
weekend. The market is ready to be disappointed.”  The Australian dollar traded at 78.45 yen as of 2:21 p.m.
in Sydney from 78.58 yen yesterday in  New York . It’s set for a
1.8 percent weekly drop, the most since the week ended Sept. 23.
The Aussie was at $1.0216 from $1.0228 yesterday, poised for a
1.2 percent decline this week.  New Zealand’s currency, traded at 60.89 yen from 60.93 yen.
It’s on track to fall 2.1 percent this week, the most since the
five-day period ended Sept. 23. The so-called kiwi bought 79.25
U.S. cents from 79.30.  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials
fell 1 percent yesterday, extending the loss for the week to 3
percent. The MSCI  Asia  Pacific Index was little changed after
falling 1.9 percent yesterday.  Europe Deadlock  European Union leaders, who are gridlocked on how to solve
the region’s sovereign debt crisis, will hold a second summit on
Oct. 26, in addition to a meeting this weekend, in an effort to
bridge differences between Germany and  France .  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  agreed to ask euro-area leaders to assess a
“comprehensive and ambitious” package of measures to address
the debt crisis this weekend in order to agree on the measures
by Oct. 26, the German government spokesman Steffen Seibert said
via e-mail.  European governments may deploy as much as 940 billion
euros ($1.3 trillion) to contain the debt crisis by combining
the temporary and planned permanent rescue funds, two people
familiar with the discussions said.  Worst Performers  The New Zealand dollar fell 1.2 percent in the past week,
the worst performer among the 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The
Australian dollar is the second worst performer after dropping
0.8 percent over the same period.  The value of Australian exports rose in the three months
through September, a government report showed today. The export
price index advanced 4 percent from the second quarter, the
Bureau of Statistics said in a report in Sydney today. Import
prices were unchanged. Economists in a Bloomberg News survey
forecast a 3.6 percent gain in exports and a 0.5 percent rise in
imports.  “The prospects for the Australian dollar remain robust”
over the medium term,  Barclays Capital  wrote in a report today.
“Key supporting factors are likely to be positive interest rate
differentials, elevated terms of trade and resilient economic
growth in Asia.”  Benchmark interest rates are 4.75 percent in Australia and
2.5 percent in New Zealand, compared with as low as zero in the
U.S. and Japan, attracting investors to the South Pacific
nations’ higher-yielding assets. The risk in such trades is that
currency market moves will erase profits.  -- Editor: Benjamin Purvis  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  