-- 
Australian, N.Z. Dollars Drop for Week Versus Yen Before European Summits

-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 
2011-10-21T15:51:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/australian-n-z-dollars-drop-for-week-versus-yen-before-european-summits.html
The Australian and New Zealand
dollars had the biggest weekly losses against the yen in a month
on concern European leaders will struggle to resolve the
region’s sovereign debt crisis.  New Zealand’s currency, nicknamed the kiwi, also declined
against the  U.S. dollar  this week as raw material prices fell.
 Australia ’s dollar was little changed for the week against the
greenback after a report showing the country’s export prices
increased in the third quarter pushed the currency up today.  “It is all about  Europe ; nothing else matters,” said Kurt Magnus, executive director of currency sales in Sydney at Nomura
Holdings Inc.,  Japan ’s biggest brokerage.  The Australian dollar slid 1.4 percent this week to 78.71
yen after gaining 0.2 percent today as of 11:37 a.m. New York
time. It was the biggest five-day loss since Sept. 23. The
Aussie was little changed for the week at $1.0339 after rising 1
percent today.  New Zealand ’s currency fell 1.8 percent this week, also the
most since the five days ended Sept. 23, to 61.08 yen. It gained
0.2 percent today. The kiwi gained 1.2 percent today to 80.23
U.S. cents, paring its weekly loss to 0.4 percent.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 commodities fell 0.3
percent this week.  European leaders began a six-day battle today over how to
save  Greece  from default, shield banks from the fallout, and
build more powerful defenses against the debt crisis rocking the
17-nation euro economy.  Rescue Fund Firepower  A falling-out between Germany and France has snagged the
effort. French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  is pushing for a
European Central Bank role in boosting the firepower of the 440
billion-euro ($611 billion) rescue fund, a move  Germany  opposes.  The New Zealand dollar was the biggest loser this week
among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes, dropping 0.8 percent. Australia’s
dollar was the second-worst performer, weakening 0.3 percent.  The value of Australian exports rose in the three months
through September, a government report showed. The export price
index advanced 4 percent from the second quarter, the Bureau of
Statistics said. Import prices were unchanged. Economists in a
Bloomberg News survey forecast a 3.6 percent gain in exports and
a 0.5 percent rise in imports.  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials
tumbled 1.5 percent this week in its first five-day loss this
month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  