-- 
Haverford Said to Consider Raising Bottom of Omega Bid Range

-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 
2011-10-21T12:13:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/haverford-said-to-consider-raising-bottom-of-omega-bid-range.html
Haverford ( Bermuda ) Ltd. may raise
the minimum price of its offer for a 25 percent stake in  Omega
Insurance Holdings Ltd. (OIH) , according to two people with knowledge
of the talks.  Haverford has been in talks with Omega, the second-smallest
publicly traded Lloyd’s of London insurer, to raise the minimum
price to 73 pence from 70 pence, said the people, who declined
to be named because the discussions are private and no agreement
has been reached. Haverford may subsequently increase its stake
past 25 percent by buying Omega shares on the market, they said.  Omega and its largest shareholder,  Invesco Ltd. (IVZ) , backed
Haverford’s offer yesterday after more than a month of rival
bids. Haverford’s original Sept. 12 bid for a quarter stake in
Omega had a maximum price of 83 pence a share, with the final
price to be set when shareholders submit the minimum they would
accept in a so-called Dutch auction. Lloyd’s insurers have
become takeover targets after earnings fell following the worst
first half for catastrophe losses on record.  “The completion of this offer will result in a much more
illiquid stock with shareholders having an outstanding exposure
to Omega,” Sarah Lewandowski, a London-based analyst with Peel
Hunt, wrote today in a note to investors.  At a minimum 73 pence price, Haverford’s offer would be
valued at about 45 million pounds ($71 million), according to
Bloomberg calculations.  Omega shares dropped 4.9 percent yesterday in  London 
trading, when the insurer’s endorsement of Haverford prompted
Canopius Group Ltd. to withdraw its bid for all of Omega’s
equity. The shares were down 2.2 percent to 66 pence as of 1
p.m. in London today, giving Omega a market value of 161 million
pounds.  Haverford’s chairman is Mark Byrne, founder of Flagstone
Reinsurance Holdings Ltd. Should Haverford’s bid succeed, Byrne
would become Omega’s executive chairman, while Richard Pexton
will remain chief executive officer.  Omega has also fended off bids this year from Lloyd’s
rivals Barbican Group Holdings Ltd., which made a fresh bid on
Sept. 22, and Novae Group Plc. Barbican’s proposal isn’t in
shareholders’ interest, Omega said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  