-- 
BAA Edinburgh Airport Sale Lures Gatwick, Manchester Owners

-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l   a n d   A l e x   W e b b
-- 
2011-10-21T15:40:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/baa-s-edinburgh-airport-sale-attracts-gatwick-manchester-owners.html
Edinburgh airport, which BAA Ltd.
said this week will be sold following pressure from regulators,
is attracting interest from Global Infrastructure Partners Ltd.
and Manchester Airports Group, its owner’s chief U.K. rivals.  GIP knows Edinburgh well and is interested in a purchase,
according to a person familiar with its strategy who declined to
be identified because nothing has been made public.  Manchester
Airports  will look at an acquisition that would deliver investor
value, spokesman John Greenway said in an e-mail.  Among overseas companies,  Aeroports de Paris (ADP) , the operator
of Paris Charles de Gaulle,  Europe ’s busiest airport after
Heathrow, expressed an interest while cautioning that it’s too
early to say if it will bid. Fraport AG, owner of Frankfurt
airport, the regional No. 3, also wants to add to its portfolio,
a person familiar with the company’s thinking said.  “It looks like being a well-contested race,” said  John Strickland , an aviation analyst at JLS Consulting in  London .
“This isn’t just any old terminal, it’s Scotland’s blue-ribbon
airport. Edinburgh is unusual in the U.K. for being a draw for
inbound tourism, which isn’t common outside of London.”  Gatwick Gone  BAA, Britain’s biggest airport operator, plans to auction
the Edinburgh terminal next year in a sale that may fetch 600
million pounds ($957 million), according to analysts. The owner
of  London Heathrow  has already sold the U.K. capital’s Gatwick
airport to GIP and may also be required to sell nearby Stansted.  U.S. infrastructure fund GIP also owns the London City
terminal serving the capital’s financial district and ranks as
Britain’s second-biggest airport operator. Manchester, the U.K.
No. 3, runs East Midlands, Humberside and Bournemouth airports,
as well as its namesake site, and is owned by the 10 boroughs of
Greater Manchester in northern England.  BAA, controlled by Spanish builder and infrastructure
operator  Ferrovial SA (FER) , lost an appeal in July against a U.K.
Competition Commission ruling ordering its breakup. Ferrovial
closed 1.8 percent higher in  Madrid , while Fraport rose 2.5
percent and ADP added 2.4 percent.  France’s  Vinci SA (DG) , Europe’s biggest builder and said to be
among the bidders for the airport assets of German rival
Hochtief AG, isn’t interested in Edinburgh “at this juncture,”
spokeswoman Estelle Ferron said in an e-mail. Its stock advanced
2.1 percent today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Rothwell in New York at 
 cnicholson22@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Webb in Frankfurt   awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at   jackiem@bloomberg.net  