-- 
Thailand Stocks: Bangkok Bank, PTT Global, President Bakery

-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-10-21T09:58:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/bangkok-bank-thanachart-ptt-global-thailand-stock-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
had unusual moves in  Thailand  trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of the close in Bangkok.  The SET Index rose 0.8 percent to 916.34, the first advance
in four days. The gauge fell 4.1 percent this week, the steepest
drop in three weeks.  Bangkok Bank Pcl (BBL)  , Thailand’s biggest lender,
gained 4.5 percent to 139 baht, the first advance in four days.
Net income in the third quarter climbed 22 percent to 7.55
billion baht ($243 million), the company said in a regulatory
filing.  PTT Global Chemical Pcl (PTTGC TB), the nation’s largest
petrochemical maker, was at 54 baht on its first trading day.
The company was formed from the merger of PTT Aromatics &
Refining Pcl and PTT Chemical Pcl. PTT Global maintained a
revenue target this year at 400 billion baht, boosted by growing
demand for olefin products, Chief Executive Officer Veerasak
Kositpaisal said today.  President Bakery Pcl (PB)  , the country’s biggest maker
of bakery products, declined 2.3 percent to 32 baht, the lowest
level since Oct. 10. The company halted some production at its
plant in Lat Krabang industrial estate to prepare for possible
flooding, it said in regulatory filing.  SVI Pcl (SVI)  , a maker of electronic components, slumped
3.3 percent to 2.92 baht, the lowest close since Nov. 22, 2010.
The company yesterday closed its plant in Bangkadi industrial
park because of flooding, it said in a statement to the stock
exchange.  Sri Trang Agro-Industry Pcl (STA)  , Thailand’s biggest
publicly traded rubber producer, gained 3 percent to 17.10 baht.
Rubber in  Tokyo  advanced for the first time in four days as the
lowest prices in 14 months lured buyers after oil gained on
European steps to contain its debt crisis, raising the appeal of
the commodity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  