-- 
Bank Indonesia Approves Mulya’s Request for Non-Active Role

-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 
2011-10-21T12:03:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/bank-indonesia-approves-mulya-s-request-for-non-active-role-1-.html
Bank Indonesia ’s board of governors
approved a request by Deputy Governor Budi Mulya to be given a
“non-active” role because of “personal reasons,” the central
bank said in a statement on its website today.  The status is valid for six months starting Oct. 20 and can
be extended by another six months, the statement said. During
his non-active status Mulya’s responsibilities will be assigned
to other members of the board, it said.  Mulya is the latest target of probes into the 2008 PT Bank
Century bailout. He is under investigation by the state auditor
regarding a “personal” 1 billion rupiah ($112,297) loan he
obtained from the former owner of Bank Century, Difi Johansyah,
a Jakarta-based spokesman at Bank  Indonesia , said on Oct. 3.  The Bank Century rescue at the height of the global
financial crisis was attacked by President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono’s political allies, with parliament voting last year
for a criminal probe of Vice President Boediono and then Finance
Minister  Sri Mulyani Indrawati .  Bank Century, and its 6.7 trillion-rupiah government
bailout, was at the center of a campaign by opposition lawmakers
against Boediono and Sri Mulyani, who left last year to become
one of the  World Bank ’s managing directors. Two major partners
in Yudhoyono’s coalition, Golkar and the Prosperous Justice
Party, joined the opposition in accusing the officials of
abusing their authority during the rescue.  Mulya obtained a loan from a Bank Century owner in October
2008 and returned it in January 2009, Johansyah said Oct. 3. The
probe is part of a state audit of the lender, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  