-- 
Basci Says Turkey Tightening on Credit, Inflation Risks

-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 
2011-10-21T13:36:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/basci-says-turkey-tightening-on-credit-inflation-risks-1-.html
Turkey ’s decision to raise lending
rates applies “some tightening bias” to an economy in which
credit growth remains very fast and there’s a risk of higher
inflation, central bank governor Erdem Basci said.  There is “fundamentally no room” for a further weakening
of the Turkish lira, as the currency’s real effective exchange
rate is at a record low, Basci said at a panel in Warsaw today.  The bank yesterday raised the overnight lending rate to
12.5 percent from 9 percent, trying to limit the decline in the
lira that threatens to drive the inflation rate further above
the bank’s 5.5 percent goal for the year. Bond yields rose the
most in five years today, jumping as much as 52 basis points, or
0.52 percentage point, to 9.66 percent.  The “growth rate of credit in Turkey significantly exceeds
the real growth rate of the economy so we better slow it down
further,” Basci said. “There is no harm in tightening via
policy rates but without harming the overall cost structure of
the financial system.”  The lira gained 0.8 percent to 1.8433 per dollar at 3:37
p.m. in Istanbul, extending yesterday’s gain. The currency fell
to a low of 1.9096 per dollar on Oct. 4 and the bank intervened
to sell dollars for lira in the market on Oct. 18, saying prices
had become “unhealthy.”  Higher lending rates “would also be good for the currency
because the currency has already depreciated quite a lot and we
would not be happy with a further sharp depreciation in this
overall uncertain environment,” Basci said. “So this is used
as a protective device on the currency.”  ‘Uncertainty, Volatility’  The bank left its benchmark one-week repo rate unchanged
yesterday at 5.75 percent, a step Basci said doesn’t “really
increase funding costs of the banks.” The bank has introduced
“some element of uncertainty, volatility there so that they
would also reflect that volatility on the pricing of their
credit.”  Bank loans grew 39 percent from a year ago, according to
Oct. 17 figures from the industry regulator.  The currency’s decline has boosted imported costs at the
same time that the government raised taxes on cars, phones,
alcohol and tobacco this month. Inflation, which was at 6.2
percent in September, is likely to “significantly” exceed this
year’s 5.5 percent target, the central bank said yesterday.  “We have to be very careful about this disinflation
process,” Basci said. “Right now there are risks in the coming
months so we have immediately turned to tightening by hiking the
interest rate corridor to avoid future risks on inflation.”  Turkey’s economy may slow after expanding 8.8 percent in
the second quarter from a year earlier. The government expects
growth of 7.5 percent this year and 4 percent in 2012. The
International Monetary Fund’s forecast for 2012 is 2.5  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katya Andrusz at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net  