-- 
Beacon’s Flywheel Power Storage System May Avoid Solyndra’s Fate

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 
2011-10-21T11:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/beacon-s-flywheel-power-storage-system-may-avoid-solyndra-s-fate.html
Beacon Power Corp. (BCON) , a struggling
energy storage company that’s received $43 million in backing
from the U.S. program that supported the failed Solyndra LLC,
may get a lifeline from a regulatory ruling.  The  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission  approved yesterday
a rule providing incentive payments to companies such as
Tyngsboro, Massachusetts-based Beacon, which makes flywheels
that manage energy moving through the grid.  Beacon, which has warned it may not remain a “going
concern” and faces delisting of its shares, is fighting to
avoid the fate of Solyndra, which filed for bankruptcy after
receiving a $535 million loan guarantee from the U.S. Energy
Department’s program designed to spur alternative energy
development.  FERC’s ruling wasn’t aimed at rescuing Beacon, according to
agency spokesman Craig Cano. “It’s an industrywide final rule
addressing compensation for any provider,” he said in a phone
interview after the unanimous vote.  The decision may double the company’s revenue, boost its
share price and make it easier to arrange financing, Walter Nasdeo, director of research at Ardour Capital in  New York , said
in an interview.  “For companies like Beacon who every day wake up with
their fingers crossed and say ’Hey, maybe they’ll pass it
today,’ it’s a big deal,”  Nasdeo said.  Beacon’s first grid-scale plant, with 200 flywheels, began
operating in January. The 20-megawatt facility in Stephentown,
New York, was funded using the $43 million Energy Department
loan guarantee.  Solyndra’s Failure  Solyndra used its loan guarantee, the biggest provided by
the Obama administration for solar-power manufacturing, to build
a $733 million factory in Fremont,  California . The company’s
failure is being investigated by congressional committees and
the  Federal Bureau of Investigation .  FERC’s ruling has been in the works since February and
applies to storage methods such as batteries as well as Beacon’s
flywheels. It changes the way grid operators pay companies that
provide frequency regulation, a service that rapidly delivers
electricity to the grid to ensure it remains at a constant
frequency of 60 hertz.  Operators will be required to pay for the amount of power
the service-providers keep available and the amount that’s used,
according to a  statement  yesterday.  They will also pay for performance, based on how
effectively the frequency regulation systems can deliver the
precise amount of energy needed, exactly when it’s in demand.
The rule will take effect 60 days after it’s published in the
Federal Register.  Rotating Cylinders  Beacon’s systems use 2,500-pound (1,134-kilogram) carbon
fiber  cylinders  rotating as much as 16,000 times a minute to
store kinetic energy. The power can be converted into
electricity quickly when the grid needs an immediate bump to
meet surges in demand. It also works in reverse when the grid
has more power than it needs.  Beacon’s market value dropped to $11 million yesterday and
its shares haven’t closed above $1 since Aug. 17, after going
public in 2000 at $6. The company conducted a 1-for-10 reverse-
split in February and warned in an August filing that it may not
be able to generate enough cash to remain in business beyond the
end of the year.  “The sad part is what they’re doing is really cool and I
think it’s really needed and I think it’ll absolutely benefit”
grid operators, said Nasdeo, who rates the shares a “hold” and
owns none. “It would be a shame if they were not able to
attract the financing to keep them moving this forward.”  A123 Systems,  AES Corp. (AES)   Beacon gained as much as 14 percent to 44 cents in New York
trading after the FERC ruling, it’s biggest intraday gain since
June 13, before closing down 1.8 percent at 38 cents. The stock
has dropped 83 percent this year through yesterday and the
Nasdaq Stock Market warned Beacon several times, most recently
on Sept. 30, that it may be delisted because its share price has
fallen below the $1 minimum.  The FERC ruling may also benefit  A123 Systems Inc. (AONE)  and AES
Corp., which are both developing battery storage to provide
frequency regulation. AES received a $17.1 million Energy
Department loan guarantee to build a 20-megawatt project in
Johnson City, New York, using batteries. A123 Systems offers a
battery system that provides frequency regulation, according to
its website.  Batteries and flywheels are alternatives to regulating
frequency using electricity from standard  power plants .  Flywheels’ Advantage  Flywheels have advantages over batteries and power plants,
Theodore O’Neill, an analyst at Wunderlich Securities in New
York, said in an interview. Batteries wear out faster than
flywheels, and power plants respond more slowly and less
efficiently.  Frequency-regulation systems may become increasingly
important as more intermittent sources of energy such as wind
and solar plants are connected to the grid, Nasdeo said.  Two flywheels at Beacon’s Stephentown plant have failed in
the past three months. One broke down July 27, the company said
on a conference call with analysts Aug. 9, and another failed
Oct. 13. Six other flywheels came from the same batch as the two
that failed and are running at slower speeds, a company
spokesman told the newspaper.  Gene Hunt, a company spokesman, said the failures weren’t
unexpected, and the company’s maintenance reserves will cover
the replacement costs of both flywheels that failed.  In addition to the federal loan guarantee, Beacon received
$29 million in grants from the U.S. and  Pennsylvania  for a 20-
megawatt plant in that state and hired Group Robinson LLC to
help it raise additional funds for the $53 million project.
Group Robinson, a  Menlo Park , California-based renewable energy
consulting company, is also helping Beacon find customers
outside the U.S.  Start-Up’s Nature  The consultant is making progress on raising funds for the
company, Hunt said, declining to provide specifics.  Beacon had $5.4 million in cash at the end of June, down
from $10.9 million at the start of the year. That’s enough to
fund its operations into the last three months of the year, the
company said.  After that, Beacon “may be unable to continue as a going
concern,” the company wrote in an Aug. 9 filing. Hunt said that
warning reflects “the nature of what’s a start-up company.”  Beacon needs to build more plants to generate enough
revenue to survive, Nasdeo said. “They just have to raise money
for the projects and get the projects up and running,” he said.
“It’s going to be dicey,”  Tripling Revenue  The FERC incentives may attract investors by as much as
tripling the amount of revenue Beacon’s projects generate,
Judith Judson, the company’s vice president of asset management
and market development, said on a conference call with analysts
in August.  The electrical grid would benefit from faster and more
accurate methods of regulating frequency, said Stu Bresler, a
vice president at regional grid operator  PJM Interconnection
LLC . Changing compensation rules would encourage the development
of technologies such as batteries and flywheels, he said.  “The more we incentivize better regulation, then the more
efficiently we can provide the service, and then the total cost
goes down,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  