-- 
Berkeley Plans New London Projects as It Woos Buyers in Turkey, Hong Kong

-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 
2011-10-21T13:39:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/berkeley-plans-new-london-projects-as-it-woos-foreign-buyers.html
Berkeley Group Holdings Plc (BKG) , the
U.K.’s largest homebuilder by market value, plans to announce
four projects in central London next year as the company
promotes homes to foreign buyers.  The properties will be built on land already owned by the
Cobham, England-based company, Paul Vallone, managing director
of Berkeley Homes said at a press conference in Istanbul today.  Vallone was in the Turkish city to attract buyers for the
375 Kensington High Street residential project as the proportion
of foreigners buying London properties increases. The company
has promoted the 750 million-pound ($1.2 billion) first phase of
the development in  Hong Kong ,  Singapore ,  Russia  and the U.S.
before presenting it in Britain on Nov. 17.  “We are in the planning process of the projects,” to be
introduced next year, Vallone said at a press conference. The
properties will be marketed to potential buyers from February to
August, he said without being more specific.  Berkeley has focused on building homes in  London  and
southeast England, where the market has been the most resilient
since the financial crisis. Its shares have soared 33 percent
this year compared with a 16.8 percent rise at Persimmon Plc,
the next-best performer among U.K. homebuilders.  Overseas investors are turning to London real estate to
protect assets from political and economic instability at home
and take advantage of a weak pound. Asian buyers accounted for
the majority of new home purchases in central London for the
first time this year, according to broker Knight Frank LLP.  The Kensington project is being developed by St. Edward, a
joint venture owned by Berkeley and  Prudential Plc. (PRU)  The total
investment will be more than 2 billion pounds, Vallone said. The
company allocated 25 apartments from the first phase for Turkish
buyers, who showed “great interest,” he said.  The development will be completed starting in the fourth
quarter of 2013, Tim Wright, a director at  Jones Lang LaSalle
Inc. (JLL)  said by e-mail. Prime central London property values may
increase by 30 percent through 2015, he said.  Jones Lang and Triangle Group are jointly marketing the
Kensington project.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net . 