-- 
Berkowitz’s Top Deputy Charles Fernandez Resigns From Slumping Fairholme

-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n   a n d   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 
2011-10-22T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/berkowitz-s-top-deputy-fernandez-resigns-from-slumping-fairholme.html
Charles Fernandez, the number two
executive at Bruce Berkowitz’s Fairholme Capital Management LLC,
resigned from the Miami-based fund company.  Fernandez, president of Fairholme Capital, stepped down
Oct. 17, according to a regulatory filing. He left for personal
reasons, Berkowitz said in a statement. Two executives, Fred
Fraenkel, chief research officer, and Dan Schmerin, director of
special situations, joined the firm, according to the statement.  Fernandez’s departure doesn’t signal any change in the
company’s strategy of investing heavily in financial stocks,
Berkowitz said in the statement. “Current opportunities in the
financial-services sector remind me of the early 1990s when it
last paid to be greedy while most were fearful,” he said.  Berkowitz, named domestic stock mutual fund manager of the
decade by research firm Morningstarm Inc. in 2010, has struggled
this year as his bets on banks and insurers failed to pay off.
His flagship $8.9 billion  Fairholme Fund (FAIRX)  lost 27 percent through
Oct. 20.  The fund had 75 percent of its equity holdings in financial
stocks as of May 31, according to Chicago-based Morningstar. Its
top holding at the time, New York-based insurer  American
International Group Inc. (AIG) , has lost 50 percent in 2011.  Fernandez didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail request
for comment late yesterday. He co-managed Fairholme Fund as well
as two smaller mutual funds run by Berkowitz, according to
Morningstar.  St. Joe Board  Fernandez also resigned as a board member of St. Joe Co.,
northern  Florida ’s largest landholder, the Watersound, Florida-
based company said yesterday in a regulatory filing.  Fairholme is the largest shareholder of the forest products
and development company, with about 29 percent of shares as of
Sept. 14, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Fernandez and
Berkowitz were elected to the board in March after a shakeup in
which Berkowitz criticized the previous management’s spending
and corporate governance. Berkowitz is chairman of the company.  St. Joe shares lost 32 percent this year, compared with a
2.8 percent decline for the Dow Jones U.S. Real Estate Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Stein in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net ;
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  