-- 
Berlusconi’s Bank Italy Choice May Spur Tension With France’s Sarkozy

-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 
2011-10-21T11:32:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/berlusconi-s-bank-choice-risks-france-tensions.html
Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s surprise nomination of Ignazio Visco to run the
Bank of  Italy  sets up a possible clash with French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  over the composition of the European Central
Bank’s Executive Board.  Berlusconi chose Visco, a 30-year  veteran  of the Bank of
Italy, to succeed  Mario Draghi , who is to become president of
the ECB when Jean-Claude Trichet’s term ends this month. The
Italian premier had indicated he might choose ECB Executive
Board member Lorenzo Bini Smaghi for the post, which would free
up a seat on the ECB’s decision-making board for a Frenchman.  Sarkozy had made removing Bini Smaghi from the board a
condition of his support for Draghi’s ECB candidacy, which was
key to convincing German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  to back the
Italian for the top ECB post. Bini Smaghi had refused to resign
from the Executive Board before the end of his term in 2013.
Berlusconi will have the chance to explain his decision to
Sarkozy at a European Union summit in Brussels on Oct. 23.  “You wonder how in these musical chairs they’re going to
make room for Bini Smaghi,” said Riccardo Barbieri, chief
European economist at Mizuho International Plc in London.
“There must have been conversations with the people involved in
the process that would lead to the rebalancing that  France  was
looking for on the ECB board.”  A French government official declined to comment on Visco’s
nomination.  Political Paralysis  Visco’s nomination to a six-year term ends a four-month
deadlock over Draghi’s successor that reflected divisions in the
government at a time when Berlusconi is struggling to convince
investors that he can act to tame the euro-region’s second-
biggest debt after  Greece . Berlusconi is under pressure to
maintain good relations with Draghi as the ECB has been
backstopping Italian bonds since August after yields rose to
euro-era records on concern Italy would be engulfed by the
region’s debt crisis.  The nomination of Visco, 61, comes with the yield on
Italy’s 10-year bond at as high 6.02 percent today, the most
since the before the ECB started buying Italian debt on Aug. 8.
Berlusconi’s inability to decide on a Bank of Italy governor,
four months after Draghi secured the ECB nomination, highlighted
the political gridlock that has hampered Italy’s response to the
spread of the debt crisis and fueled the jump in borrowing
costs.  Other Candidates  Berlusconi and Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti  clashed
over the appointment, with the premier initially backing Bank of
Italy Director General Fabrizio Saccomanni, the candidate
favored by Draghi, and Tremonti preferring Treasury Director
General  Vittorio Grilli , newspaper  Il Sole 24 Ore  reported on
Sept. 28.  Grilli, who is from Milan, was also supported by  Umberto Bossi , leader of the  Northern League , which holds the key to
Berlusconi’s parliamentary majority, who said he preferred
Grilli because he was a “Milanese.”  Choosing Visco allows Berlusconi to appease Draghi and
Italian President Giorgio Napolitano, who had pushed for an
internal candidate, rather than a political appointee. He also
can partially satisfy Tremonti by denying the post to
Saccomanni, Draghi’s favored choice for the position, newspapers
including La Repubblica reported today. The choice leaves the
issue of Bini Smaghi unresolved.  ‘Great Professionalism’  Members of the government, the opposition and business
leaders praised the decision. Even if “the way that we arrived
at the decision wasn’t the best,”  Emma Marcegaglia , head of
Italy’s employers lobby, said she was satisfied with the choice
of Visco.  “He is a person of great professionalism,” she said in
Balzano, Italy today. “And he is someone from in the Bank of
Italy, who is able to guaranty its autonomy and independence.”  Berlusconi on Oct. 18 said that Bini Smaghi was on his
“shortlist,” the only Bank of Italy candidate he cited by name
that day. Berlusconi decided that he would nominate Bini Smaghi
for the position yesterday, a deputy minister in his government
said on condition of anonymity. The premier appears to have
changed his mind after meetings with top members of his Cabinet,
including Tremonti and Bossi, last night in  Rome .  “You have the whole Bini Smaghi thing coming back to the
fore,”  Marc Ostwald , a fixed-income strategist at Monument
Securities Ltd. in  London , said in an e-mail. “The French
obviously feel they should have a French member” on the board,
“and this nomination doesn’t solve the problem.”  Defending Independence  Amid pressure from France and Italy to step down, Bini
Smaghi said in a speech at the Vatican on June 16 that ECB
officials must have “personal independence, which ensures the
security of tenure of the members of the decision-making bodies
for the whole term of office.” An ECB spokesman, asking not to
be identified in line with policy, declined to comment last
night on Bini Smaghi.  When EU leaders confirmed Draghi, 64, to succeed Trichet on
June 24, Berlusconi pledged to nominate his successor the
following week. Visco, a former chief economist at the Paris-
based Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development,
wasn’t among the three candidates he cited by name: Bini Smaghi,
Saccomanni and Grilli.  Visco hails from Naples, a southern city often criticized
by the Northern League for its organized crime and chronic
garbage problems. Still, Roberto Calderoli, one of the Northern
League’s Cabinet members, praised Visco last night as a solid
economist with the “pragmatic” qualities of a northern
Italian, Ansa newswire reported.  Calls for Reform  Visco is one of three deputy directors-general at the  Bank
of Italy . He started his career at the central bank in 1972 and
holds a degree in economics from the University of Rome and a
doctorate from the  University of Pennsylvania .  In his most recent public comments before the Senate in
Rome on Aug. 30, Visco called for structural moves to overhaul
Italy’s economy, whose growth has lagged behind the euro-area
average for the past decade, after the government approved 54
billion euros ($74 billion) in austerity measures to help tame
debt of about 120 percent of gross domestic product.  The spending cuts and tax increases “will have inevitable
restrictive effects on the economy,” Visco said. “The growth
in international commerce is unlikely to return quickly to the
high levels of before the crisis. We therefore risk a period of
stagnation, which will slow the reduction of the debt.”  The Bank of Italy’s Board of Directors is set to meet Oct.
24 to give a non-binding opinion on Visco’s candidacy to Italian
President Giorgio Napolitano, who must give final approval
before Visco gets the job.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 