-- 
Bimbo Wins Approval to Buy Sara Lee Bread Business Under Asset-Sale Deal

-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 
2011-10-21T20:13:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/bimbo-wins-approval-to-buy-sara-lee-bread-business-under-asset-sale-deal.html
Grupo Bimbo SAB, the world’s largest
breadmaker, can buy Sara Lee Corp.’s North American fresh bakery
business if it agrees to sell some Sara Lee brands of sliced
bread, the U.S. said.  Under a proposed settlement, which also cut the acquisition
price to $709 million from $959 million, Mexico City-based Grupo
Bimbo and its U.S. baking unit, BBU Inc., must divest the rights
to sell certain Sara Lee brands in eight markets, according to a
statement today from the  Justice Department .  “BBU and Sara Lee’s North American fresh bakery business
aggressively compete head-to-head for sliced fresh bread sold in
retail stores,” said Sharis Pozen, the acting assistant
attorney general in charge of the Justice Department’s Antitrust
Division.  Bimbo and Horsham, Pennsylvania-based BBU agreed to sell
brands including Sara Lee’s EarthGrains label in  California ,
Kansas, Oklahoma and Nebraska, along with the Holsum and Milano
brands in central  Pennsylvania , the Justice Department said.  Without the divestitures, the acquisition “would likely
lead to millions of Americans paying higher prices for sliced
fresh bread,” Pozen said. The sales include the associated
manufacturing, distribution and marketing assets required to
compete effectively, according to the statement.  Monica Breton, a spokeswoman for Bimbo, didn’t immediately
return a voice-mail message seeking comment.  BBU and Sara Lee are respectively the largest and third-
largest bakers and sellers of sliced fresh bread in the U.S.,
the Justice Department said in the statement. BBU sells baked
goods under brands including Arnold, Thomas’, Entenmann’s,
Freihofer’s and Stroehmann’s.  Grupo Bimbo is expanding through acquisitions in the U.S.
and  Europe , where it bought Sara Lee’s bakery units in  Spain  and
Portugal Oct. 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  