-- 
Biogen Rises as MS Pill Shows No Safety Concerns in Study

-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 
2011-10-21T20:10:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/biogen-idec-multiple-sclerosis-drug-significantly-cut-relapses.html
Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB) , the world’s
largest maker of multiple sclerosis drugs, rose to its highest
value in almost four months after data on its MS pill BG-12
raised no concerns about safety in a late-stage trial.  The medicine met study goals, reducing the proportion of
patients that relapsed by as much as 50 percent at two years
compared with a placebo, Weston, Massachusetts-based Biogen said
today in a statement. The data were presented at the Congress of
the European and Americas Committees on Treatment and Research
in Multiple Sclerosis, known as ECTRIMS, in Amsterdam.  Biogen presented results from the same trial, called
Define, in April, prompting the company’s shares to rise the
most in more than three years when analysts said the data may
make BG-12 the best treatment option for patients. If approved,
the pill may generate as much as $3 billion in annual revenue in
the next seven years, or about 20 percent of the MS market, said
 Michael Yee , an analyst with  RBC Capital Markets .  “This was the de-risking event,” Yee said in a telephone
interview today from the meeting. “It suggests there are no
issues to be concerned about at this time for BG-12.”  Yee said the information also removes concerns the drug
wouldn’t perform well in a trial called Confirm, that like
Define is part of the third and last phase of studies generally
required for U.S. regulatory approval. Biogen will present data
from Confirm later this year, Doug Williams, the company’s head
of research and development, said today in the statement.  Biogen gained 7.1 percent to $108.84 at 4 p.m. New York
time, the highest since June 29. The shares have increased 62
percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  