-- 
Blackstone Said to Target Up to $3B for Energy Fund

-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 
2011-10-21T18:57:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/blackstone-is-said-to-seek-as-much-as-3-billion-for-its-first-energy-fund.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX)  is seeking as
much as $3 billion for its first energy fund, aiming to become
the biggest diversified private-equity firm investing in the
industry, according to two people with knowledge of its plans.  The target tops those for natural-resources funds in the
works at KKR & Co. and Apollo Global Management LLC, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because the information
is private. Blackstone, which started energy investing in 1997
through the purchase of oil refiner Premcor Inc., has initial
commitments of $1 billion for the fund, President  Tony James 
said yesterday on an earnings conference call with the media.  An industry-focused fund is a departure for the New York-
based company, which in the past has made almost all its
corporate private-equity investments through a general pool. Co-
founder and Chairman  Stephen Schwarzman  has pushed the firm
beyond company buyouts, quickly surpassing competitors in new
businesses such as real estate,  hedge funds  and credit funds.  “Energy has the macro wind at its back and firms raising
those funds are benefiting from that now,” said Erik Hirsch,
chief investment officer of Hamilton Lane, a  Bala Cynwyd ,
Pennsylvania-based firm that invests in private equity on behalf
of clients.  There have been $265 billion of announced takeovers in the
 energy industry  this year, about the same as the comparable
period last year and an increase of almost 80 percent from 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Peter Rose , a Blackstone spokesman, declined to comment on
the firm’s goal for the energy fund.  Real Estate, Credit  Blackstone, which started its first real estate fund in
1994, today has the largest pool of capital available for
property deals, Schwarzman told investors on a conference call
yesterday. Its real estate unit had $30 billion in fee-earning
assets as of Sept. 30, compared with $37 billion for its
corporate-buyout unit.  The firm’s credit business, which invests in loans and
other debt and is led by GSO Capital Partners LP, has grown to
$28.7 billion in assets from $10 billion in 2008, making it one
of the largest managers in the market. Schwarzman has said the
hedge fund-of-funds unit, which has allocated $37.2 billion on
behalf of clients, is the largest among private-equity firms.  Now Schwarzman and James are targeting energy. In their
marketing they highlight that none of the firm’s prior deals in
the industry have lost money. Potential investors such as
employee pension funds are also drawn by another element of
their pitch: job creation driven by investments in U.S. energy
companies.  Energy Record  Earlier this month, one of Blackstone’s portfolio companies
put 500 union workers back on the job when it opened an  oil
refinery  that had been shuttered by the previous owner.  “The banks won’t lend, the government doesn’t have the
money to do it,  venture capital  has little bits and pieces, and
it takes a lot of money to save America’s industrial base,”
James said at an Oct. 7 ceremony at the refinery in  Delaware 
City, Delaware.  David Foley, who joined Blackstone in 1995, leads a group
of 30 people hunting for energy deals that ramped up about 18
months ago. His group has deployed about $3.2 billion in the
industry through the third quarter. The total accounts for half
of the dollars Blackstone spent in private equity over the
period.  Kosmos Energy  During a conference call with analysts in July, Schwarzman
offered Kosmos Energy LLC as an example of a successful energy
investment. The Dallas-based oil- and gas-exploration company,
whose assets include a stake in West Africa’s biggest offshore
discovery in a decade, went public at a price equal to six times
Blackstone’s initial cost in 2004, Schwarzman said. Kosmos is
now trading at more than $15 a share, below its initial public
offering price of $18. Blackstone hasn’t sold any of the shares
it owns since the IPO.  Other investments include a $300 million stake in an Indian
power company; Sithe Global, a developer of coal and natural gas
plants in the U.S. and internationally; and WindMW GmbH, which
is building  Germany ’s largest offshore wind-energy plant. The
firm has also backed companies exploring and producing fuel
trapped in shale formations with $500 million in three separate
deals.  Private-equity firms raised $6.4 billion for five energy
funds this year through October, according to researcher Preqin
Ltd. There are 12 funds seeking a combined $15.8 billion from
investors, data from the London-based firm show.  Riverstone Holdings  KKR, the New York-based firm run by  Henry Kravis  and  George
Roberts , has attracted more than $1 billion for its natural-
resources fund, exceeding the target, according to person
familiar with the matter. Apollo, the New York-based firm co-
founded by  Leon Black , is seeking as much as $1.5 billion to
make long-term bets on metals, mining and energy prices, a
person briefed on the plan said in July.  Riverstone Holdings LLC is aiming to gather as much as $6
billion, according to a person with knowledge of the firm’s
fund-raising efforts. Unlike Blackstone and the other
diversified firms, New York-based Riverstone has invested
exclusively in energy and power since it was formed 11 years
ago.  Officials for the firms declined to comment on their energy
fund-raising.  Buyout firms are expanding into energy to capitalize on
increasing demand from developing markets and to buy mature oil
and gas fields that the world’s biggest energy companies are
shedding to finance new exploration.  Blackstone, by emphasizing  job creation  at its portfolio
companies like the one that owns the Delaware refinery, is
attempting to strike a chord with public pensions, which are
among the largest clients for private-equity firms.  “We manage money for half the pensioners in America, and
that’s where the profits go,” said James as he pounded the
podium at the refinery reopening.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  