-- 
BlackRock Buys Italian Debt With European Bailout Talks Showing Progress

-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   M a r g a r e t   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-10-21T16:41:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/blackrock-buying-italian-debt-with-european-bailout-talks-showing-progress.html
BlackRock Inc. Chief Investment
Officer Rick Rieder said the world’s biggest money manager
remains a buyer of Italian government debt as European policy
makers gather to address the region’s sovereign debt crisis.  “ Italy  is attractive,” Rieder said during an interview on
“InBusiness With Margaret Brennan” on Bloomberg Television.
“As long as we are moving toward solutions, we think Italy is
very reasonable at these levels.”  Euro finance ministers meet today, followed by ministers
from all 27 European Union countries tomorrow. EU and euro-area
leaders gather on Oct. 23, with another euro summit scheduled on
Oct. 26. The agenda will focus on how to save Greece from
default, shield banks from the fallout and build more powerful
defenses against the debt crisis rocking the 17-nation euro
economy. As a first step, they are set to approve releasing the
next aid payment for Greece.  All 16 countries that were using the euro last year
increased their debt load, boosting the region’s average to 85.4
percent of gross domestic product from 79.8 percent in 2009, the
European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said today. The
countries with the highest ratios of government debt to GDP were
 Greece  at 144.9 percent, and Italy at 118.4 percent. Estonia
joined the union this year.  BlackRock, which manages about $3.66 trillion in assets,
has also been buying debt issued by financial firms and high-
yield bonds, Rieder said. As with the Italian bonds BlackRock
has bought, the financial debt will benefit “as soon as you see
stability,” Rieder said.  High-yield securities have become attractive as a decline
in support for the debt by bond dealers has made it harder to
trade, Rieder said. That creates “great opportunities” for
“investors with a longer-term outlook,” he said.  The  European Central Bank  bought small amounts of Spanish
and Italian government debt today, according to two people with
direct knowledge of the transactions, who asked not to be
identified because the deals are confidential. Italy’s 10-year
rate dropped 12 basis points to 5.89 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  