-- 
Boeing Dreamliner Composite Repairs Questioned by U.S. Watchdog

-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 
2011-10-22T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/boeing-dreamliner-s-composite-repairs-questioned-by-u-s-agency.html
Boeing Co. (BA) ’s new 787 Dreamliner, set
to fly its first paying passengers next week, faces four
“safety-related concerns” about repairs to the composites used
for the fuselage and wings, a U.S. agency said.  A review of the  Dreamliner , the first airliner built with
carbon-fiber reinforced composite plastics instead of metal, was
released Oct. 20 by the U.S. Government Accountability Office.
The GAO identified four concerns: limited information on the
behavior of airplane composite structures; technical issues with
the materials’ unique properties; standards for repairs; and
training and awareness.  The U.S.  Federal Aviation Administration  certified the 787
in August following 20 months of flight tests, after requiring
that Boeing take extra steps to demonstrate its safety. The GAO
was asked by three members of Congress to review the FAA’s
certification process and planned oversight once the model
enters service, and consulted experts on repair and maintenance.  “None of the experts believed these concerns posed
extraordinary safety risks or were insurmountable,” the GAO
said in its report. Still, while the FAA is taking action to
address the matters, “until these composite airplanes enter
service, it is unclear if these actions will be sufficient,”
the report said.  The 250-seat Dreamliner uses the lighter-weight composites,
new engines and the first all-electric system to help it fly
farther with less fuel.  Charter Flight  Chicago-based Boeing delivered the plane last month to its
first customer, Tokyo-based All Nippon Airways Co., more than
three years late after Boeing struggled with the new materials
and manufacturing processes. The Dreamliner is scheduled for a
charter flight from  Tokyo  to  Hong Kong  on Oct. 26 and will enter
regular service the following week.  “Regardless of the materials we use, Boeing employs the
same rigorous methods to deliver products that are safe for the
flying public and efficient for airlines,” said  Marc Birtel , a
Boeing spokesman in Seattle. “Composite materials have been
used in commercial airplanes for decades.  ‘‘The concerns in the GAO report are limited to support
activities,’’ which already are being addressed through an
industrywide effort involving regulators, manufacturers,
operators and maintenance and repair organizations, Birtel said.  Boeing has used composites for other airliners before,
including the 777, though never for the whole fuselage and wings
as in the 787.  Repairs Different  The Dreamliner’s fuselage is made of reinforced carbon
fibers spun around a barrel mold and baked, so repairs will be
handled differently than with traditional aircraft that are
built of riveted aluminum panels.  ‘‘The FAA conducts a rigorous certification process for
every new airplane that ensures it meets the highest levels of
safety, and the FAA has certified commercial aircraft that use
composite materials for decades,’’ the agency said yesterday in
a statement. ‘‘In addition to the extensive certification
requirements, the FAA’s robust safety oversight system is
designed to detect and correct any issues that may emerge during
actual flight.’’  The GAO’s review was requested by Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson of  Texas , Representative Donna Edwards of
 Maryland  and Representative Jerry Costello of  Illinois , all
Democrats.  They wrote a letter to FAA Administrator  Randy Babbitt  on
Oct. 20, asking that he explain what ‘‘practical and proactive’’
steps are being taken to ensure ‘‘robust oversight’’ of the
787’s maintenance and repair.  Training Personnel  As the model enters service, the FAA will need to train
more personnel to deal with composites and certify more repair
centers to handle work on the new planes, the GAO report said.
Boeing has orders for about 800 of the 787s from carriers around
the world, making it the company’s fastest-selling new plane
ever.  ‘‘Composite-built aircraft present opportunities as well as
unique and complex challenges, and we need to make sure the FAA
is addressing all of these challenges appropriately,” Johnson
said yesterday in a statement.  All Nippon Airways’s first Dreamliner already suffered some
slight surface damage to the engine cowling when it hit a
passenger boarding bridge earlier this month,  Flightglobal
reported  Oct. 19. The plane resumed regular flight tests with
the carrier in  Japan  after the company did some checks, the
trade publication said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Ray in  Seattle  at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  