-- 
BofA Said to Get Mortgage Probe Subpoena From California Attorney General

-- B y   G r e g   F a r r e l l   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-10-21T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/bofa-said-to-get-california-attorney-general-s-mortgage-subpoena.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  was given a
subpoena by  California ’s attorney general for information
related to the packaging and sale of mortgage-backed securities,
a person familiar with the matter said.  The subpoena, delivered Oct. 18, involves mortgage
securitization by the Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank and
its Countrywide Financial unit, said the person, who wasn’t
authorized to speak and didn’t want to be identified  The subpoena follows a decision by California Attorney
General Kamala Harris to withdraw from talks among state
officials, the U.S. Justice Department and the five largest
mortgage servicers.  The  attorneys general  of all 50 states last year announced
they were investigating the foreclosure practices of banks
following disclosures that faulty documents were being used to
seize homes. A group of attorneys general and federal officials
are negotiating a settlement with the lenders, which also
include  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) 
and Ally Financial Inc.  Several attorneys general are conducting their own
investigations of bank mortgage practices and have raised
concerns about the scope of the releases that would be included
in any agreement.  Shum Preston, a spokesman for Harris, declined to comment
yesterday on the subpoena. Lawrence Grayson, a Bank of America
spokesman, also declined to comment on it. News about the
subpoena was first reported in the Los Angeles Times.  In a Sept. 30 letter explaining her decision to pull out of
the global settlement talks, Harris wrote that, “California was
being asked for a broader release of claims than we can accept
and to excuse conduct that has not been adequately
investigated.”  ‘All Stages’  Harris wrote that she would continue a probe already begun
by a special mortgage fraud task force in her state, designed to
“investigate all stages of the mortgage-lending process, from
origination to servicing and foreclosures to securitization of
loans into investments in the secondary market.”  While discussions with the banks were proceeding, Harris
issued a subpoena to Citigroup, seeking more information about
mortgage securitization, a person familiar with the matter said
in August.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Greg Farrell  in New York at 
 gregfarrell@bloomberg.net ;
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  