-- 
BP Wins U.S. Approval for First Drilling Plan Since Macondo

-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a   a n d   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 
2011-10-21T17:37:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/bp-wins-u-s-gulf-deep-water-plan-approval.html
BP Plc (BP/)  received U.S. permission for
oil exploration in the deep waters of the  Gulf of Mexico , the
first approval since the company’s Macondo well caused the
nation’s worst offshore spill last year.  The company must obtain a permit before drilling begins in
a field about 192 miles (309 kilometers) off the Louisiana
coast, according to  the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management , which
announced approval of BP’s plan today in an e-mailed statement.  “This is definitely progress,” said Iain Armstrong, an
analyst at broker Brewin Dolphin Ltd. in London. “I don’t think
the ship’s quite turned around yet, but the compass is pointing
in the right direction.”  BP Chief Executive Officer  Robert Dudley  is seeking to
revive U.S. output in the Gulf as the lack of new wells drags
down production. The London-based company waited almost a year
to submit drilling plans while it reviewed safety after
President  Barack Obama  in October 2010 lifted a moratorium on
deep-water work imposed after the well blowout and the spill.  BP rose as much as 3.2 percent in London trading after the
announcement, and climbed 2.2 percent to 439.4 pence at the
close. The stock is up 13 percent this month.  BP will comply with U.S. safety requirements added after
the spill, as well as standards the company imposed on itself,
which exceed government rules, according to a company statement.  Kaskida Field  “We are working through the regulatory process” to drill
in the Kaskida Field, according to the e-mailed statement.
“Exact timing for commencement of drilling is subject to
approval of the regulator.”  BP is planning to drill Gulf wells in water as deep as
6,034 feet (1,839 meters), according to the agency statement.
The Macondo well was in about 5,000 feet of water 40 miles south
of  Louisiana .  “Our review of BP’s plan included verification of BP’s
compliance with the heightened standards that all deep-water
activities must meet,” Tommy Beaudreau, the bureau director,
said in the statement.  The U.S. decision on BP’s plan was criticized by
Representative  Edward Markey  of  Massachusetts , the top Democrat
on the House Natural Resources Committee.  ‘Keys to Drill’  “Comprehensive safety legislation hasn’t passed Congress,
and BP hasn’t paid the fines they owe for their spill, yet BP is
being given back the keys to drill in the Gulf,” Markey said.
“The major investigations into the BP oil spill disaster are
now complete and it is time to assess and levy the fines against
BP for its damage to the environment and economy.”  Starting work in the Gulf is part of Dudley’s campaign to
repair BP’s standing with investors, regulators and the U.S.
public. The company wrote off $41 billion in costs related to
the spill caused by a blowout on the Deepwater Horizon rig that
killed 11 people.  “This is a company that spent the weeks following the
blowout concentrating on its PR strategy, making a series of
optimistic claims that were invariably at odds with the
unfolding reality,” Ben Stewart, a  London  based spokesman for
environmental group Greenpeace, said in an e-mail. “Now they’ve
been let back into the Gulf of Mexico to conduct the kind of
drilling operation that nearly bankrupted the company.”  BP reports third-quarter earnings on Oct. 25.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net ;
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net 
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  