-- 
Branding Irons Fade as U.S. Pushes National Livestock Tracking

-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 
2011-10-21T04:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/branding-irons-fade-as-u-s-pushes-national-livestock-tracking.html
Arizona  rancher Jay Platt says when
200 of his calves were stolen by rustlers, the brand on their
flanks helped  Texas Rangers  track them down two states away.  The third-generation rancher says the hot-iron brand -- an
inverted V flanked by a diagonal line -- meets his needs better
than a proposed national  animal-identification system . The U.S.
says a program using ear tags is essential to protect herds from
disease, maintain confidence food is safe and avert bans by
other nations on U.S. meat exports.  A rustler can snip off an ear tag, Platt says. A brand is
forever.  “Ranchers out here protect the health of our herds, but
theft is a big problem,” Platt, 61, who raises about 1,000 head
of cattle on more than 100,000 acres straddling Arizona and  New
Mexico , said in an interview. “A lot of diseases spread very
fast, and an animal ID system won’t stop that.”  Such rancher resistance is among reasons a nationwide
animal-tracing system has yet to take effect for the U.S.
 livestock industry , valued at more than $70 billion a year. It’s
been promised by the Department of Agriculture since 2003, when
the U.S. found its first case of mad-cow disease, which may lead
to dementia in people who eat contaminated meat.  A major disease outbreak in the absence of such a system to
speed investigations may cost the beef industry $12.6 billion
and pork producers $5.5 billion in lost exports over 10 years,
according to a study this year by researchers from  Kansas State
University ,  Colorado State University  and Montana State
University for the Denver-based U.S. Meat Export Federation.  Plan Abandoned  A voluntary plan  was abandoned in 2010 after ranchers
refused to participate, citing cost and concerns that its
proposed registry would give competitors proprietary
information. The voluntary system was criticized as taking a
one-size-fits-all approach that didn’t take into account how
different animals are marketed: While horses are often sold
individually, chickens could be tracked by groups because they
travel in flocks.  Lawmakers such as Representative Rosa DeLauro, a Democrat
from  Connecticut , and the USDA say a better tracing system is
needed to limit outbreaks that could devastate herds, destroy
exports and in some cases threaten human health. Ranchers say
illnesses such as mad cow disease and bovine tuberculosis are
rare in U.S. herds.  The plan the USDA proposed in August would require
registration and tagging of livestock moved between states, with
guidelines tailored to different species. It would be put in
place gradually, applying first to older animals in the U.S.
cattle herd, which numbered 92.6 million at the start of the
year.  Western Lore  Livestock branding, which dates to ancient  Egypt , is part
of the lore of the American West, where the indelible symbol
indicated ownership as long-horned herds were driven across the
fenceless prairie.  Ranchers still lose cattle to rustlers, as well as to
ineffective barbed-wire fences that fail to restrain the
animals, and potentially to diseases that spread among herds. So
brands are still useful as a way to track livestock to their
owners and remain a legally recognized ID in 14 states.  The USDA, which has extended a Nov. 9 deadline for comments
on its plan by a month, says its goal is to help investigators
track a sick animal to its place of origin more quickly. Earlier
proposals set a target of finding the source in 48 hours. In
some cases of bovine tuberculosis, tracing has taken 150 days.  Knowing Quickly  “It’s about making sure producers are able to know as
quickly as possible if there’s a problem, where their problem
starts and being able to mitigate it,” Agriculture Secretary
Tom Vilsack told reporters in September. He described the
proposed system as aimed primarily at animal health and said in
the end that will benefit producers.  Of the world’s eight biggest beef exporters, only the U.S.
and  India  don’t have mandatory national ID and tracing systems,
the researchers for the U.S. Meat Export Federation said.  The USDA said the annual cost for the cattle industry to
implement its latest plan would be no more than $34.3 million, a
fraction of the  $4.08 billion  in beef shipped overseas last
year. The expense for producers of other livestock would be much
less, according to the proposal.  Animal tracing efforts date back decades at the USDA, which
spent the 20th century fighting maladies such as animal
tuberculosis, brucellosis, foot-and-mouth disease and hog
cholera that can wipe out herds, driving up meat prices and
posing a threat to people who handle the animals. Efforts then,
as now, tended to focus on cattle.  Mad Cow Disease  An outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease in  South Korea 
resulted in the slaughter of more than 3 million animals in the
past year. The U.S. hasn’t had a case since 1929. While the U.K.
had an outbreak of mad cow disease in the 1990s and  Canada  has
had more than a dozen cases in the past decade, the U.S. has had
only three, one of them in a cow born in Canada.  Mad cow disease, or  bovine spongiform encephalopathy , is
associated with Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, a form of  brain
damage  that leads to rapid dementia in humans. In 1993, during
the peak of the U.K. outbreak, more than 1,000 cows a week were
being diagnosed as infected. The incidence has decreased rapidly
since the 1990s as bans on practices that promote the disease
proved effective.  Cattle futures plummeted 22 percent in the week after the
U.S. found the initial mad cow, and  beef exports  didn’t top 2003
levels again until last year.  Older Cattle  Japan , the biggest buyer of American beef before the 2003
outbreak, restricts U.S. imports to cattle 20 months or younger
on concern that older animals may be at higher risk for the
brain-wasting disease.  Japan’s government is considering raising the age limit to
30 months after domestic production fell in the aftermath of the
March 11 disaster at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant,
according to two ministry officials who declined to be named
because of department policies.  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN) , the largest U.S. beef processor, backs a
robust national animal ID program, spokesman Gary Mickelson said
in an e-mail. Cargill Inc., the world’s largest agribusiness,
said it supports a plan that creates different rules among
species to lower costs while maintaining traceability, a feature
of the USDA proposal.  A nationwide tracing system should be possible, as long as
the USDA cooperates with producers, House Agriculture Committee
Chairman  Frank Lucas , an Oklahoma Republican, said last month.
“Traceability policy has always been about weighing costs and
benefits,” he said in an e-mail.  Better Plan  Elizabeth Parker, chief veterinarian for the Denver-based
 National Cattlemen’s Beef Association , the largest U.S. rancher
group, said the USDA’s plan appears more palatable than the
voluntary proposal, which she called a “colossal failure.”  Extra labor and other costs will fall disproportionately on
smaller cattle producers, according to Bill Bullard, the chief
executive officer of R-CALF USA, a rancher group based in
Billings,  Montana . Errors in processing could result in herd
miscounts and legal-liability issues in case of a disease
outbreak, rancher Platt said.  “We’re on the right track,” T. Wright Dickinson, of
Maybell,  Colorado , whose iron-branded cattle roam across parts
of Wyoming and  Utah , said in an interview. “But it has to work
for all parties.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in  Washington  at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at   lliebert@bloomberg.net  