-- 
Brazil’s Cheap Power Stymies Sugar-Cane Investment, Bradesco Says

-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 
2011-10-21T20:21:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/brazil-s-cheap-energy-stymies-cane-investments-bradesco-says.html
Falling electricity prices in Brazil
are hindering investments in new sugar-cane mills, an analyst at
 Banco Bradesco SA (BBDC4)  said.  Prices of energy sold during the last government-organized
auction for new power capacity fell to about 100 reais ($56.22)
a megawatt-hour, from 144 reais in August 2010, Bruno Varella,
an analyst at Osasco, Brazil-based  Banco Bradesco , said today in
a telephone interview. That’s about a third less than companies
need to build the  power plants  that typically run cane mills, he
said.  “With power prices where they are, groups don’t reach a
good return on their invested capital and they decide not to
commit” to new mills, Varella said. About 15 percent of a
mill’s net present value is attributable to cogeneration and the
remaining 85 percent to sugar and ethanol sales, he said.  Brazil ’s cane industry is producing about half the ethanol
its growing fleet of cars require, Varella said. That supply and
demand mismatch will widen without new investments in mills and
the cane plantations that feed them, he said. Mills produce
electricity by burning bagasse, the stems and stalks that remain
after sugar cane is processed.  Developers of wind farms in Brazil are beating small
hydroelectric and biomass plants to contracts to sell power in
government auctions, driving down prices, he said.  In two auctions held on Aug. 17 and Aug. 18, 78 wind farms
signed contracts to sell power from 1,929 megawatts of capacity
and 11 biomass plants sold power from 555 megawatts, national
energy agency Empresa de Pesquisa Energetica said on its
 website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  