-- 
Brazilian Stock Movers: Cosan, Embraer, LLX, Petroleo Brasileiro

-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 
2011-10-21T20:33:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/brazilian-stock-movers-embraer-llx-ogx-petroleo-brasileiro.html
The following companies had unusual
price changes in Sao Paulo trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of the close of trading. Preferred
shares are usually the most-traded class of stock.  The Bovespa Index rose 2.3 percent to 55,255.23.  Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA (ELET6)  (ELET6 BS) advanced 3.2
percent to 23.45 reais.  Latin America ’s largest publicly traded
utility made a non-binding offer to buy the 21 percent stake the
 Portuguese government  is selling in utility EDP-Energias de
Portugal SA, Diario Economico reported, citing unidentified
people. China Three Gorges Corp. also made an offer, according
to the report.  Cosan SA Industria e Comercio (CSAN3)  (CSAN3 BS) climbed 1.2
percent to 26.81 reais. The sugar-cane processor said in a
regulatory filing it agreed to buy lubrication distribution
assets in Bolivia, Paraguay and Uruguay from ExxonMobil
Lubricants Trading Co., without specifying the value of the
transaction.  Embraer SA (EMBR3)  (EMBR3 BS) increased 2.3 percent to 12.34 reais.
Royal Jordanian Airlines intends to expand its fleet of Airbus
SAS and Embraer planes, said Chief Executive Officer Hussein Dabbas. Separately, Embraer was rated “buy” in new coverage at
Deutsche Bank AG.  LLX Logistica SA (LLXL3)  (LLXL3 BS) advanced 2.8 percent to 3.67
reais. The port developer controlled by billionaire Eike Batista
said it signed a rental agreement with NKT Flexibles I/S for its
Acu port in Rio de Janeiro state. Revenue from the contract is
estimated to be about 8 million reais ($4.5 million) a year, LLX
said in a regulatory filing yesterday.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  (PETR4 BS) gained 2.4 percent to
19.27 reais.  Brazil ’s state-controlled oil company followed
crude prices higher. Separately, Petrobras, as the company is
known, plans to sell bonds denominated in euros and pounds,
according to three people familiar with the matter who asked not
to be identified because the plans haven’t been announced
publicly. The sale will take place when market conditions
improve, the people said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  