-- 
Brazilian Real Posts Weekly Decline on China Slowdown Concern

-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 
2011-10-21T20:52:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/brazil-real-weakens-on-china-growth-concern-rate-yields-rise.html
The real posted its first weekly
loss in three on concern the economic slowdown in  China ,
Brazil’s biggest trading partner, will limit domestic expansion.  The real fell 2.4 percent this week to 1.7755 per dollar,
from 1.7328 on Oct. 14. The currency advanced 0.3 percent today.  China’s stocks fell today, capping the Shanghai Composite
Index’s steepest weekly drop in five months, on speculation
slowing economic growth and the nation’s tighter monetary
policies are hurting earnings. Commodities and most other global
stocks advanced on optimism European policy makers are moving
closer to containing the debt crisis.  “For emerging markets, the outlook is more complicated”
because they will suffer more from slowing Chinese growth and a
potential breakdown in the talks on  Europe , Mauricio Junqueira,
a  money manager  at Squanto Investimentos, said in a telephone
interview from  Sao Paulo . “Until the talks are done, the market
will remain very volatile.”  The real gained as much as 0.8 percent earlier as European
finance ministers began a six-day battle to prevent a Greek
default and shield banks, approving a 5.8 billion-euro ($8
billion) loan to  Greece . European governments may combine a
temporary and permanent rescue fund to pool as much as 940
billion euros to fight the crisis, two people familiar with the
matter said yesterday.  ‘Volatility’  “With less  risk aversion , the real tends to strengthen,”
Eduardo Galasini, head of treasury at Banco Banif, said by phone
from Sao Paulo. “The situation is still complicated, and
there’s a lot of volatility.”  Yields on most Brazilian interest-rate futures contracts
fell on speculation slowing inflation will allow the central
bank to continue lowering borrowing costs. The yield on the
contract due in January 2013 dropped two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 10.48 percent.  Brazil ’s inflation rate fell for the first time in 14
months in mid-October, the national statistics agency said
yesterday. Consumer prices, as measured by the IPCA-15 index,
rose 7.12 percent in mid-October from a year earlier, down from
7.33 percent the previous month. Central bank President
Alexandre Tombini has repeatedly pledged to slow inflation to
4.5 percent by the end of 2012.  “Inflation is in the process of converging to the
target,”  Andre Perfeito , chief economist at Sao Paulo-based
Gradual Investimentos, said in a telephone interview. “There’s
space for the central bank to continue cutting rates.”  Brazil’s central bank voted unanimously Oct. 19 to reduce
the benchmark Selic rate to 11.5 percent from 12 percent as
economic growth slows.  Policy makers said in a statement that a “moderate
adjustment” in the rate “is consistent” with the goal of
bringing inflation to target by 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Cuadros in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  