-- 
Brigham Exploration Sued by Shareholders Over $4.4 Billion Sale to Statoil

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-10-21T15:29:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/brigham-exploration-sued-by-shareholders-over-4-4-billion-sale-to-statoil.html
Brigham Exploration Co. was sued by
shareholders contending that  Statoil ASA (STL) ’s $4.4 billion buyout
price is too low.  The offer price is a discount to the oil and gas producer’s
52-week high trading price, according to separate suits filed by
the same  law firm  on behalf of shareholders Robert Fioravanti
and Howard Weisberg.  “The proposed transaction is the product of a flawed
process that involved no known open auction,” Weisberg said
yesterday in a complaint in Delaware Chancery Court.  Statoil said Oct. 17 that it would buy all of Brigham’s
shares for $36.50 each, a 20 percent premium to the company’s
Oct. 14 closing price. The deal is the seventh-largest takeover
announced this year in the oil and gas industry.  Statoil,  Norway ’s biggest oil company, is using Brigham to
expand into unconventional U.S. assets such as the Bakken shale
area in  North Dakota .  The offer price reflects an inadequate premium given
Brigham’s strong growth prospects and is still below the
23 percent average premium for the industry this year, the
shareholders said.  The deal also includes preclusive protection devices
include a clause prohibiting Brigham from seeking a third-party
bid and a $136.5 million termination fee that discourages other
potential buyers, according to the complaints.  Weisberg and Fioravanti are seeking to represent all
Brigham shareholders in their request to bar the transaction.  Rob Roosa, a spokesman for Brigham Exploration, didn’t
immediately return a phone call seeking comment.  The cases are Weisberg v.  Brigham Exploration Co. (BEXP) , CA6957,
and Fioravanti v. Brigham Exploration Co., CA6962, Delaware
Chancery Court (Wilmington)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  