-- 
Bryson Sworn in as Commerce Secretary to Tackle Trade, Jobs

-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-10-21T18:42:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/bryson-confirmed-as-commerce-secretary-to-tackle-exports-jobs.html
John Bryson , who became President
Barack Obama’s Commerce secretary today, will take a leading
role in the effort to reduce an  unemployment rate  stuck above 9
percent and a push to double U.S. exports.  Bryson, 68, the former head of Edison International in
California, was sworn in to replace Gary Locke, who became U.S.
ambassador to  China  in August. The Senate confirmed Bryson, who
Obama chose at the end of May, by a 74-26 vote last night, with
21 Republicans and two independents joining all the Democrats in
support.  Bryson takes over a department under pressure to deliver on
Obama’s pledge to boost annual U.S. exports to $3.14 trillion by
the end of 2014 from $1.57 trillion in 2009. Obama has also
proposed a $447 billion package of tax cuts and  government
spending  intended to reignite growth and hiring.  “I expect he will be a powerful voice inside the
administration and a partner with the business community to grow
our economy and open international markets for American
manufacturers,” Senator  Dianne Feinstein , a California
Democrat, said during debate on the nomination.  Republicans delayed Bryson’s confirmation until Obama sent
lawmakers legislation for free-trade agreements with Panama,
Colombia and South Korea. Bills for those accords cleared
Congress last week, and Obama signed them today.  Obama’s Team  Bryson’s corporate experience gives him an understanding of
the steps needed to create jobs and rebuild the economy, Obama
said in a statement after the vote.  “John Bryson will be a key member of my economic team,
working with the business community to promote job creation,
foster growth and help open up new markets around the world for
American-made goods,” Obama said.  Bryson led Edison International, the owner of California’s
largest utility, until 2008. His nomination was supported by the
Business Roundtable, representing CEOs of companies such as
 Boeing Co. (BA) , and opposed by Republicans including Senator  John Barrasso  of Wyoming, who criticized Bryson’s support in the past
for legislation to cap  carbon emissions .  “This nominee is the wrong person at the worst time,”
Barrasso said yesterday on the Senate floor.  Senator  James Inhofe  of Oklahoma, the senior Republican on
the Environment and Public Works Committee, had placed a
“hold” on the nomination. He cited Bryson’s role as a founder
of the  Natural Resources Defense Council , a group that Inhofe
said is “a left wing, environmentalist organization.”  Curbing Rules  At a June hearing of the Senate Commerce, Science and
Transportation Committee, Bryson sounded themes favored by
Republicans. Questioned by lawmakers who said Obama has issued
too many costly regulations, Bryson said as Commerce secretary
he would push to curb rules that are burdening companies, cut
taxes and spur trade.  “I‘m committed to helping simplify regulations that are
difficult to understand, eliminate regulations that are
ineffective and speed up regulatory decisions so American
businesses can have the certainty they need,’’ Bryson said at
the hearing.  Bryson was on Boeing’s board with  William Daley , now
Obama’s chief of staff, and in June defended the decision by the
Chicago-based company to add a nonunion assembly line for the
787 Dreamliner in  South Carolina . The  National Labor Relations
Board  in April filed a complaint against Boeing, saying the
aerospace company decided to build in South Carolina to
retaliate for worker strikes at factories in Washington state,
where the company makes aircraft.  Solar Power  Bryson joined  Edison International (EIX)  in 1984 and was named
chairman and CEO in 1990. He retired in 2008. In September 2010,
he became chairman of BrightSource Energy Inc., an Oakland,
California-based developer of solar-power plants.  Backed by investors including Morgan Stanley and Google
Inc. and a $1.6 billion U.S. Energy Department loan guarantee,
BrightSource is seeking to prove a technology it calls the power
tower. The company has filed to raise $250 million in an initial
public offering.  The solar-power industry is the subject of congressional
scrutiny this year. Solyndra LLC, a solar-panel company, filed
for bankruptcy last month, two years after winning a $535
million federal loan guarantee. The company is the subject of a
House probe and an FBI investigation.  Seven U.S. solar-equipment makers two days ago asked the
government to slap duties on more than $1 billion of Chinese
imports, joining the wind-power industry in seeking compensation
for what they say is unfair government aid undercutting American
competitors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  