-- 
Cain Outlines Exceptions to 9-9-9 to Combat Poverty, Urban Decay

-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 
2011-10-21T19:39:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/cain-outlines-exceptions-to-9-9-9-to-combat-poverty-urban-decay.html
Republican presidential candidate
 Herman Cain  said Americans in poverty would be exempt from his
so-called 9-9-9 tax plan, days after an independent analysis
found the proposal would mostly benefit high earners.  “If you are at or below the poverty level, your plan isn’t
9-9-9,” Cain said in a speech today in  Detroit . “It’s 9-0-9.”  The  U.S. Department of Health  and Human Services set the
2011 poverty level at $22,350 for a family of four. Cain didn’t
specify whether his plan would exempt the first $22,350 of
income for all taxpayers or would apply only to those whose
income falls below that level.  The 9-9-9 plan would eliminate most of the current U.S. tax
code and replace it with a new 9 percent sales tax along with 9
percent levies on individual and business income.  The proposal, which has catapulted Cain to the top of the
polls in the race for the 2012 Republican presidential
nomination, has been criticized for raising taxes for lower- and
middle-income Americans while cutting them for the wealthy.
Cain’s comments today were intended as a rebuttal to that
criticism.  ‘Help the Poor’  “Another way we help the poor is that we get this economy
going so we can let people find jobs,” he said.  The nonpartisan  Tax Policy Center  said Oct. 18 that the
plan would cut taxes for almost 95 percent of taxpayers with
annual cash income exceeding $1 million while 95 percent of
Americans with cash income between $30,000 and $40,000 would
face a larger tax bill than they currently pay. The analysis
didn’t consider the poverty provisions as there weren’t details
about the program at the time.  Cain today also expanded upon his plan to provide  tax
deductions  to businesses and individuals located in so-called
empowerment or opportunity zones. He said businesses in
designated areas could deduct payroll expenses.  Until today, Cain hadn’t outlined the benefits he would
provide in the zones. His campaign still hasn’t outlined the
criteria that would be used to designate these areas.  Cain has said the 9-9-9 plan won’t lose revenue for the
U.S. He built in room to allow for tax benefits directed at the
poor while keeping rates at about 9 percent. An analysis his
campaign distributed Oct. 12 said tax rates could be as low as
7.3 percent without any poverty program.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  