-- 
Canada Dollar Advances With Equities on Europe Debt Optimism

-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 
2011-10-21T21:27:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/canada-dollar-rises-after-september-inflation-exceeded-forecast.html
Canada ’s dollar strengthened against
its U.S. counterpart, along with equities and commodities, amid
optimism that European policy makers may be moving closer to
containing the debt crisis.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, rose earlier
after a report showed inflation unexpectedly accelerated in
September, lessening speculation that the central bank may cut
 interest rates  in the next few months. European finance
ministers started a six-day battle to stave off a Greek default
and shield banks from the fallout. As much as 940 billion euros
($1.3 trillion) might be deployed.  “This really is about equities being up,” Firas Askari,
head of  currency trading  at Bank of Montreal’s BMO Capital
Markets unit, said by telephone from Toronto. “Canada is not in
the spotlight. Foreign exchange is reacting to the other asset
classes, primarily equities, which are reacting to the news
coming out of  Europe . Things are still Europe-centric.”  Canada’s currency rose 0.9 percent to C$1.0066 per  U.S.
dollar  by 5 p.m. in Toronto, helping it finish the week with a
gain of 0.3 percent. One Canadian dollar buys 99.34 U.S. cents.  Stocks, Oil  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 1.9 percent, while
Canada’s benchmark S&P/TSX Composite Index advanced 1 percent.
Futures on crude oil climbed 1.7 percent to $87.58 a barrel in
New York trading.  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  are scheduled to meet tomorrow in Brussels before
a summit the next day and a follow-up leaders’ gathering on Oct.
26 to nail down what they’ve called a “comprehensive” plan.  Germany  has endorsed a blueprint in which the euro-area
rescue fund -- the European Financial Stability Facility --would
be used as an insurance fund, guaranteeing part of cash-strapped
governments’ bond sales.  “The market is focused quite intently on the delays that
are slowing progress on Europe’s debt crisis,”  Shaun Osborne 
and Greg Moore, foreign exchange strategists at Toronto-Dominion
Bank in Toronto, said in a note to clients. “It may be the
middle of next week before we get any real clarity” on the
subject of the rescue fund, they wrote.  Government of Canada bonds fell, pushing 10-year yields up
five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 2.36 percent.
The price of the 3.25 percent securities maturing in June 2021
declined 45 cents to C$107.62.  Inflation Reading  Canada’s consumer price index increased 3.2 percent in
September from a year earlier,  Statistics Canada  said today in
Ottawa before  Bank of Canada  policy makers will make their next
rate decision Oct. 25. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
predicted a 3.1 percent reading according to the median of 25
estimates.  “The implication for the Bank of Canada next week is that
with rising inflationary pressures, it limits their ability to
shift interest rates,” said  Camilla Sutton , chief currency
strategist at Bank of Nova Scotia’s Scotia Capital unit in
Toronto, in a telephone interview. “That will take away some of
that pressure from the system, which is positive for the
currency.”  The central bank will keep its rate unchanged at 1 percent,
according to all 25 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Investors pared bets the central bank’s next move will be a
cut. The three-month overnight index swap rate, which is based
on what investors expect the central bank’s rate will average
during that period, rose to 0.9655 percent from 0.9635
yesterday.  The Canadian dollar has weakened 4.1 percent this year,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, a
gauge of 10 developed-nation currencies. The greenback has
declined 3.2 percent, while the yen has gained 3.6 percent.  To contact the reporters for this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  