-- 
Bank of Canada Core Inflation Measure Hits Fastest Since 2008 in September

-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 
2011-10-21T12:31:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/canada-s-core-inflation-rises-to-fastest-since-2008-on-clothing.html
Canada ’s annual inflation rate
unexpectedly accelerated in September, and a measure of price
increases that factors out volatile items reached the highest in
almost three years, led by higher costs for clothing, cars and
 air travel .  The  consumer price index  increased 3.2 percent in September
from a year earlier, compared with an August pace of 3.1 percent
and a May peak of 3.7 percent, Statistics Canada said today in
Ottawa. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News predicted a 3.1
percent reading according to the median of 25 estimates.  The core inflation rate, which excludes eight volatile
items such as gasoline, accelerated to 2.2 percent, up from
August’s 1.9 percent pace to reach the fastest rate since
December 2008. Economists forecast 2 percent  core inflation .  While inflation has been above the  Bank of Canada ’s 2
percent target for 10 months, Governor  Mark Carney  has said he
has “considerable flexibility” in how fast inflation returns
to the bank’s desired rate, as the country faces a weak U.S.
recovery and uncertainty over the European debt crisis that
could tip the global economy into another recession.  “The bank is looking through near-term volatility in
inflation,” said  Derek Holt ,  Scotia Capital ’s vice president of
economics in Toronto, describing the central bank as having a
“growth bias” right now.  Currency Appreciates  Canada’s dollar erased losses against its U.S. counterpart
following the report. The currency traded at C$1.0102 per  U.S.
dollar  at 8:23 a.m. in Toronto, up 0.5 percent from 1.0154
yesterday. One Canadian dollar buys 98.99 U.S. cents.  Investors pared bets the central bank’s next move will be a
cut. The three-month overnight index swap rate, which is based
on what investors expect the central bank’s rate will average
during that period, rose as 0.9753 percent, from 0.9635
yesterday. Yields on Canadian government two-year bonds rose to
1.07 percent from 1.04 percent.  “While this result doesn’t completely rule out Bank of
Canada rate cuts, it relegates them to only the most extreme
circumstance,”  Doug Porter , deputy chief economist at Bank of
Montreal’s Capital Markets unit, said in a note to investors. It
may also return the central bank “to the tightening wheel
sooner than most now expect” if core inflation stays close to
current levels or rises further, Porter said.  Carney, who has kept his benchmark rate at 1 percent for 12
months, has said he may extend a period of low  interest rates 
beyond when full output is restored.  Clothing and Tuition  During the month of September, the cost of women’s clothing
jumped 10.5 percent, tuition fees recorded a 4.2 percent gain,
air travel prices increased 3.6 percent and car prices were up
1.9 percent,  Statistics Canada  said.  Gasoline prices rose 22.7 percent in September from a year
earlier, Statistics Canada said today.  Canada’s average annual inflation was 3 percent from July
through September, compared with a Bank of Canada  forecast  of
2.8 percent. According to the July 20 outlook, the central bank
projects inflation will slow to 2.6 percent in the last three
months of this year. The bank will issue new forecasts Oct. 26.  The Bank of Canada runs monetary policy with a goal of
achieving a 2 percent annual inflation rate, the mid-point of a
1 percent to 3 percent target range.  On a monthly basis, overall consumer prices rose 0.2
percent in September from August. The core measure rose 0.5
percent. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg predicted monthly
inflation of 0.2 percent for both measures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  