-- 
Cantor Cancels Wharton School Speech on Plans for Anti-Wall Street Protest

-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 
2011-10-21T21:35:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/cantor-cancels-wharton-school-speech-on-plans-for-anti-wall-street-protest.html
House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor 
canceled a speech today at the  University of Pennsylvania ’s
 Wharton School , where anti- Wall Street  protesters had planned to
gather outside.  The Virginia Republican, who referred to the Occupy Wall
Street protests as “growing mobs” in an Oct. 7 speech, had
been scheduled to speak on the topic “A Fair Shot at the
American Dream & Economic Growth,” according to an Oct. 17
advisory from Cantor’s office.  The Republican leader  canceled  his speech after local press
reports quoted Occupy Philadelphia organizers as saying they
expected 500 to 1,000 protesters to be outside the hall,
according to a Cantor aide who wasn’t authorized to speak
publicly.  Cantor had been invited to speak to 250 students, faculty
and other university guests, the aide said. Yesterday, Capitol
Police told Cantor’s office that the first 300 people would be
admitted, regardless of whether they were affiliated with the
university, the aide said.  In a statement, university spokesman Ron Ozio said the
“Wharton speaker series is typically open to the general public
and that is how the event with Majority Leader Cantor was
billed.”  The university regrets “if there was any
misunderstanding with the majority leader’s office on the
staging of his presentation,” Ozio said.  Protests on Campus  The Daily Pennsylvanian, the campus newspaper, quoted an
organizer of the demonstration, Jamie Mondics of an advocacy
group called Keystone Progress, as saying university security
officials decided to allow the protest to be conducted on campus
property instead of along a nearby public sidewalk.  In an Oct. 7 speech to the Family Research Council’s
“Value Voters Forum” in  Washington , Cantor said he was
“increasingly concerned about the growing mobs occupying Wall
Street and the other cities across the country.”  Four days later, Cantor dropped that description of the
anti-Wall Street protests in  New York  and other cities, saying
he sympathized with demonstrators who were “upset” because
“they are out of work” and “their sense of security for the
future is not clear at all.”  Cantor had been scheduled to speak in  Jon M. Huntsman Hall ,
named after the father of Republican presidential candidate Jon
M. Huntsman Jr.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  