-- 
Capcom Expects Mobile-Phone Games to Generate 30% of Profit in a Few Years

-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 
2011-10-21T07:50:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/capcom-expects-mobile-phone-games-to-generate-30-of-profit.html
Capcom Co. expects the proportion of
its profit generated by “Smurfs’ Village” and other games
played on mobile phones to rise to 30 percent as users of  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and Google Inc.’s Android system download titles.  Capcom, creator of the “Resident Evil” video series, in
May forecast mobile-phone games will make up 6.6 percent of
operating profit in the year ending March. That proportion will
probably increase about five-fold “in a few years,” Chairman
Kenzo Tsujimoto said yesterday in an interview.  Tsujimoto, 70, said purchasing  Canada ’s Cosmic Infinity
Inc., developer of the “Who Wants to Be a Millionaire” handset
game, in 2006 gave Osaka-based Capcom a head start in the sector.
“That allowed us to wait in ambush,” he said.  The company is building up its line of games played on
Facebook and other social-networking sites as the sector
reshapes  Japan ’s $10.6 billion video-game market. The domestic
market for social gaming will almost triple to 305 billion yen
($4 billion) in 2013, according to Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley
Securities Co.  “The gaming population is expanding thanks to the rising
popularity of applications played with smartphones,” Tsujimoto
said. “We hope these casual users will eventually start to play
games on video-game consoles.”  The company forecasts operating profit, or sales minus the
cost of goods and administrative expenses, of 12.1 billion yen
for this fiscal year, down 15 percent from a year earlier.  ‘Tectonic’  Capcom, which introduced the Beeline Interactive brand for
social games this year, began last month offering “Smurfs’
Village,” in which users cultivate land and build a town with
the blue characters, to smartphones that run on the Android
operating system. The title has already had more than 15 million
downloads via Apple Inc.’s  App Store , Capcom said.  “The video-game industry has seen about 10 ‘tectonic
movements’ in the past 40 years,” with perhaps the biggest
being the shift from pinball machines and juke boxes to arcade
machines that use sophisticated chips, said Tsujimoto, who
founded Capcom in 1983. The rise in social games played on
mobile devices may be the next shift, he said.  Capcom rose 2 percent to 1,990 yen at the 3 p.m. close on
the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The shares have jumped 52 percent this
year, compared with a 15 percent drop in the benchmark Nikkei
225 Stock Average.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Masatsugu Horie in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Drew Gibson at 
 dgibson2@bloomberg.net ;
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  