-- 
CapitaLand’s Profit Falls 83% on Accounting Change, Lower Sales From China

-- B y   J o y c e   K o h
-- 
2011-10-21T10:38:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/capitaland-s-profit-falls-83-on-accounting-change-lower-sales-from-china.html
CapitaLand Ltd. (CAPL) ,  Southeast Asia ’s
biggest developer, said third-quarter profit dropped 83 percent
after lower contributions from China and  Australia , and an
accounting rule change restated last year’s revenue.  Net income dropped to S$80.2 million ($62.8 million) in the
quarter ended Sept. 30, from a restated S$460.1 million a year
earlier, it said today in a stock exchange statement. Revenue
fell 58 percent to S$608.6 million from S$1.45 billion. Sales
would have declined 3 percent without the accounting change
effective Jan. 1, based on figures provided by the company.  The Singapore-based developer is planning to sell more
apartments in both its home market and China, tapping on
opportunities as measures by both governments to curb housing
prices hurt weaker competitors. CapitaLand invested S$7 billion
in new projects this year, more than its target of S$5 billion
to S$6 billion of investments, focusing on the two nations.  “We will continue to adopt a prudent investment approach,”
Chief Executive Officer Liew Mun Leong said in a press release
today. “With our strong balance sheet and financial flexibility,
it is likely the uncertainty and cooling measures will provide
opportunities for us to explore and secure investment
opportunities, especially in Singapore and  China .”  Singapore will continue releasing land to meet private
housing demand, which makes up 23 percent of the city state’s
housing market, the Business Times reported this week, citing
National Development Minister Khaw Boon Wan. China intensified
housing measures with curbs on mortgages and limited home
purchases for major cities such as Shanghai and Beijing. The two
are CapitaLand’s biggest markets, each making up 35 percent of
assets, according to a slide presentation today.  Its shares closed 1.7 percent higher at S$2.45 at the close
of Singapore trading. The stock has lost 34 percent this year,
compared with the 15 percent decline in the Singapore benchmark
Straits times Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  