-- 
CEZ’s Dukovany Chief Sees ‘Very Real Possibility’ of New Reactor Build

-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a
-- 
2011-10-21T08:26:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/cez-s-dukovany-chief-sees-very-real-possibility-of-new-reactor-build.html
CEZ AS (CEZ) , the Czech Republic’s largest
power producer, will probably add at least one more reactor to
its Dukovany nuclear power plant, director Tomas Zak said.  “There is a very real possibility that CEZ will build a
new reactor at Dukovany,” Zak said in an Oct. 19 telephone
interview. “The current government has a very pragmatic
approach to  energy security .”  State-controlled CEZ is in the process of choosing a
supplier for two new reactors at the newer Temelin plant among
Westinghouse Electric Co., Areva SA and a Russian-Czech group
led by ZAO Atomstroyexport. The Czech government is drawing up
an updated energy strategy with the aim of increasing the share
of nuclear power in the country’s overall energy output to over
50 percent from the current 32 percent.  “It’s far easier to build another reactor in a locale that
already exists than on green field,” the executive said. “And
Dukovany has popular support. Town representatives, mayors,
lawmakers representing the region are all lobbying us to build
more.”  The Czech government will decide how many reactors to add
to Dukovany in the next 10-15 years based on European demand for
electricity, Zak said. The lifespan of the existing reactors
expires around 2045.  European Pressure  The  Czech Republic  could face pressure from the European
Union to curb its nuclear ambitions if the mood turns further
against atomic energy after the recent meltdown in Fukushima,
said Marek Hatlapatka, an energy analyst at Cyrrus AS brokerage.  “I don’t expect CEZ to start building until Temelin is
nearly finished,” said the analyst, who advises his clients to
“accumulate” CEZ shares.  The project will face problems with water supply as adding
more than one reactor would exceed the capacity of the existing
dam on the Jihlava river, Zak said. CEZ would have to build an
underground pipeline bringing in water from another river, he
said.  The Dukovany plant is also making technical improvements to
increase its current output to 2,000 megawatts by the middle of
2012, Zak said. Unit 1 has been upgraded to 500 megawatts  from
460 megawatts and will be restarted at the end of November.
Units 3 and 4 have already been upgraded to 500 megawatts, while
unit 2 will be shut down for the upgrade next February,
according to the executive.  Dukovany has a potential to increase output by another 2-3
percent, Zak said. The process will take several years because
of a lengthy licensing process, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in Prague at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 