-- 
Cheap European CLOs Offer Investor ‘Carrots,’ Citigroup Says

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 
2011-10-21T14:46:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/cheap-european-clos-offer-investor-carrots-citigroup-says.html
European collateralized loan
obligations are undervalued and investors should take advantage
of the biggest discount to U.S. deals this year to boost
holdings of the debt, Citigroup Inc. analysts said.  An average AA rated CLO in Europe trades at 64 percent of
face value, compared with about 76 percent in the U.S., analysts
wrote in a note to clients Oct. 20. Securities rated A trade at
53 percent in Europe versus 68 percent in the U.S.  “Euro CLO liabilities look cheap,” according to the
analysts led by Ratul Roy in  New York . He cited three
“carrots” to tempt investors: the declining cost to convert
dollar payments into euros and their discount to both U.S. deals
and the debt used to collateralize the notes.  European CLOs have been tainted by the region’s spreading
sovereign crisis, though the funds have about 13 percent of
their assets in peripheral countries, according to Citigroup.
CLOs package high-yield loans into securities of varying
risk and return, including equity portions designed to absorb
losses first and protect holders of top-rated bonds.  The cost for European banks to fund in dollars rose further
today, with the three-month cross-currency basis swap at 93.6
basis points below the euro interbank offered rate from 91.5
basis points yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  CLOs in  Europe  also trade at a wider discount to leveraged
loans -- the collateral for the notes -- than in the U.S.,
Citigroup said. The average price for European CLOs is 81
percent of face value, while loans are quoted at about 90
percent. U.S. CLOs are at 83 percent with loans at 90 percent.  Issuance Push  Sales of U.S. CLOs are likely to pick up in the fourth
quarter as the funds exploit a 150 basis-point increase since
mid-July in the premium loans pay over benchmark rates,
Citigroup said. The widening has exceeded that of new CLOs,
which have increased an average 80 basis points. A basis point
is 0.01 percentage point.  That may push full-year CLO issuance in the U.S. to $12
billion compared with about $5 billion in 2010, Citigroup said.  CLOs are attractive relative to high-grade corporate bonds,
the analysts said, with spreads at the widest this year.  “It might be time for insurance companies to come back”
after they bought about $5 billion of CLOs in the first half of
the year, they said. “Unless rates turn negative, we do not see
much upside in corporate bond returns.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  