-- 
China Money Rate Completes Weekly Increase as PBOC Drains Cash

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-21T09:06:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/china-money-rate-completes-weekly-increase-as-pboc-drains-cash.html
China ’s key money-market rate had a
weekly gain as the central bank drained cash from the financial
system for the first time in three months.  The People’s Bank of China removed a net 22 billion yuan
($3.4 billion) of capital from the  interbank market  this week by
issuing bills and repurchase contracts, the first withdrawal
since July, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. China’s
inflation is “under control” and will drop to 5.8 percent by
year-end, Yu Yongding, a researcher with the  Chinese Academy of
Social Sciences  and former central bank adviser, said in Beijing.  “The capital draining showed the central bank still
doesn’t want to loosen monetary policy at the moment,” said Guo Caomin, a bond analyst at Industrial Bank Co. in  Shanghai . “But
at the same time it has no motivation to tighten more since
inflation is slowing.”  The seven-day repurchase rate, which measures interbank
funding availability, rose 31 basis points this week to 3.45
percent as of the close in Shanghai, according to a weighted
average rate compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center.
It dropped two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, today.  The People’s Bank of China yesterday lowered the yield on
three-year bills for the first time in 15 months. The move is a
signal that monetary policy has returned to “neutral,” which
will drive bond yields lower,  Jiang Chao  and Chen Lan, bond
analysts at Guotai Junan Securities Co., the nation’s biggest
brokerage by revenue, wrote in a research note today.  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, increased six
basis points this week to 3.51 percent in Shanghai, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. It rose two basis points today.  The yield on the 3.94 percent government bond due January
2021 dropped three basis points this week to 3.75 percent,
according to the Interbank Funding Center. It was unchanged
today.  -- Judy Chen . Editors: James Regan, Sandy Hendry  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3043 or
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 