-- 
Chinese Solar Companies Disputing SolarWorld’s Trade Complaint

-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 
2011-10-21T16:42:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/chinese-solar-companies-disputing-solarworld-s-trade-complaint.html
Chinese solar manufacturers, which
last year produced more than 55 percent of the world’s panels,
say  SolarWorld AG (SWV) ’s U.S. trade complaint is one-sided.  Suntech Power Holdings Co., the world’s largest solar panel
manufacturer, and Yingli Green Energy Holding Co. denied
engaging in unfair trade practices, without addressing
assertions that they sell products below cost. They said they
hold themselves to “fair international trade practices” and
are “confident in their positions,” in statements responding
to the complaint by SolarWorld Industries Americas Inc.  SolarWorld’s U.S. unit and six other panel manufacturers
filed a complaint Oct. 19 with the International Trade
Commission seeking to slap duties on more than $1 billion of
Chinese imports. The companies alleged unfair state aid that
undercuts competition. The Chinese Commerce Ministry said the
claim was regretful.  “We would like to remind everyone that such petitions
obviously present only the views of one side, and only a partial
view of a very complicated story,” Baoding-based Yingli said
today in a statement.  “Anyone can file one of these actions; having filed an
action is in no way a validation from the U.S. government as to
the merits of the action,” Wuxi-based Suntech saidyesterday.  If Chinese solar manufacturers are no longer able to export
to the U.S. because of the duties, there will be significant
impacts on U.S. manufacturing equipment and raw material
manufacturers, resulting in a “lose-lose” situation, the
Commerce Ministry said today today in a  statement .  The U.S. exported more solar products last year than it
imported, by $1.9 billion, according to an August report from
the Washington-based trade group Solar Energy Industries
Association and GTM Research. Polysilicon, the raw material in
solar cells, and manufacturing equipment made up the majority of
the $5.63 billion in exports, and much of that went to  China .
The U.S. imported $2.4 billion in solar panels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  