-- 
Chinese Stocks in the U.S.: 51job, Sinopec, Suntech, Yingli

-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 
2011-10-21T22:03:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/chinese-stocks-in-the-u-s-51job-sinopec-suntech-yingli.html
The Bloomberg China-US 55 Index of
the most-traded Chinese equities in the U.S. gained for the
first time in three days, rising 1.5 percent. The Shanghai
Composite Index retreated 0.6 percent to 2,317.28.  The following companies were among the most active Chinese
shares in New York trading. Stock symbols are in parentheses and
prices are as of the close of trading.  51job Inc. (JOBS)  , the China-based worker-recruitment
provider, soared 7.2 percent, the most since Aug. 9, to a one-
week high of $44.09. The company was raised to “outperform”
from ”market perform” at William Blair & Co. by equity analyst
Timothy McHugh.  China Unicom ( Hong Kong ) Ltd. (CHU US), the nation’s
second-largest mobile-phone carrier, gained 0.1 percent, the
fourth day of increases in five, to $19.42. The company filed an
application for a permit to use iPhone 4S in its network to the
Ministry of Industry and  Information Technology , the Chinese-
language Guangzhou daily reported, citing unidentified people at
China Unicom.  Chinese solar manufacturers, which last year produced more
than 55 percent of the world’s panels, say SolarWorld AG’s U.S.
trade complaint is one-sided. SolarWorld’s U.S. unit and six
other panel manufacturers filed a complaint Oct. 19 with the
International Trade Commission seeking to slap duties on more
than $1 billion of Chinese imports.  Suntech Power Holdings (STP US), the world’s largest maker
of solar panels, slid 3.3 percent to $2.07, the lowest in more
than two weeks.  Yingli Green Energy Holding Co. (YGE US),  China ’s fifth-
largest maker of solar modules, lost 4.5 percent to $3.58. The
company, in a statement today responding to SolarWorld’s
complaint, said it holds itself to “fair international trade
practices” and is “confident” in its position.  LDK Solar Co. (LDK US), a maker of solar cells based in
China’s Jiangxi province, trimmed 4.2 percent to $3, the lowest
since Oct. 4.  Oil futures rose for the first time in three days on hopes
that European leaders will reach a deal to contain the region’s
debt crisis. The contract for December delivery climbed 1.6
percent to settle at $87.40 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange .  PetroChina Co. (PTR US) the nation’s biggest oil producer,
added 1.6 percent to $122.93.  Cnooc Ltd. (CEO)  , China’s largest offshore energy
producer, advanced 2.1 percent to $169.95. The company plans to
invest 13.8 billion yuan ($2.2 billion) in a phosphorus chemical
project in Guizhou province, China News Service reported on its
website.  China Petroleum and Chemical Corp. (SNP US), the country’s
biggest refiner known as Sinopec, rose 1.6 percent to $92.89.
China’s diesel stockpiles fell about 13 percent at the end of
September from a month earlier, the most in at least 20 months,
as refiners shut plants for repairs and lowered output to cut
losses from processing crude, according to a newsletter by the
official Xinhua News Agency.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  