-- 
China Stocks Drop for Biggest Weekly Loss in Five Months; PetroChina Falls

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-21T07:22:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/china-stocks-drop-widening-weekly-loss-petrochina-slides-on-loss-report.html
China ’s stocks fell, capping the
benchmark index’s steepest weekly drop in five months, on
speculation slowing economic growth and the nation’s tighter
monetary policies are hurting earnings.  PetroChina Co. slid to a one-month low as the nation’s
largest oil producer said it may have a 2011 refining loss of
over 50 billion yuan ($7.8 billion). Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. led
declines for coal producers. China Minsheng Banking Corp. and
Huaxia Bank Co. gained at least 1.9 percent as the finance
ministry said cities such as Shanghai will be able to sell debt
themselves instead of going through the central government.  “China’s economic slowdown will hurt companies’ earnings
in the fourth quarter and next year,” said Mei Luwu, a  fund
manager  at Lion Fund Management Co. in Shenzhen. “The market
will fluctuate at the current low levels before bottoming out.”  The Shanghai Composite Index slumped 14.1 points, or 0.6
percent, to 2,317.28 at the close, extending this week’s slump
to 4.7 percent, the most since the week ended May 27. The  CSI
300 Index (SHSZ300)  retreated 0.5 percent to 2,507.88.  Gauges of energy and material companies in the CSI 300 slid
1.5 percent and 2.3 percent today, extending losses this week to
7.6 percent and 10 percent respectively.  Stocks fell this week after some reports showed the Chinese
economy is decelerating. The nation’s gross domestic product
grew at 9.1 percent in the third quarter the slowest pace in two
years, while foreign direct investment rose 7.9 percent in
September at the slowest pace in three months.  PetroChina slid 0.9 percent to 9.65 yuan as the shares
resumed trading after being suspended yesterday. The company’s
annual resource tax payments may rise to 29 billion yuan,  Mao
Zefeng , a company spokesman said, confirming a Xinhua News
Agency report.  Energy Stocks  PetroChina’s refining segment swung to a loss of 23.4
billion yuan in the first six months from a profit a year
earlier, according to an Aug. 25 statement. The government,
which controls fuel prices to curb inflation, raised tariffs by
about 10 percent in the first half, while crude in  New York 
averaged 26 percent higher from a year earlier.  Yanzhou Coal declined 1.9 percent to 25.51 yuan. Shanxi
Lu’an Environmental Energy Development Co., a coal miner,
slipped 0.9 percent today, capping a 17 percent retreat this
week. Jiangxi Copper Co., China’s biggest producer of the metal,
slid 1 percent to 24.95 yuan today.  Policy Outlook  The  Shanghai  index has plunged 17 percent this year,
driving down estimated price earnings to a record low of 10.8
times yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. China
has raised  interest rates  three times in 2011 and ordered
lenders to set aside a bigger portion of their deposits to curb
inflation that’s near a three-year high.  China won’t cut interest rates until inflation falls below
5 percent, Yu Yongding, a researcher with the  Chinese Academy of
Social Sciences  and former central bank adviser, said today.  Yu said he didn’t expect any tightening or loosening of
monetary policy as China stabilizes its monetary stance.  Consumer prices in the world’s second-biggest economy
increased 6.1 percent in September from a year earlier, the
National Bureau of Statistics said last week. The government’s
full-year inflation target is 4 percent.  Lenders Gain  Huaxia Bank, partly owned by Deutsche Bank AG, led gains
for lenders, adding 2 percent to 11.09 yuan. China Minsheng
climbed 1.9 percent to 5.84 yuan.  The cities of Shanghai and Shenzhen, and the Zhejiang and
Guangdong provinces will be able to sell debt themselves instead
of going through the central government, according to a  Finance
Ministry  statement yesterday.  “This sends a strong signal that the central government is
determined to find a solution to resolve local debt problems,”
said  Qu Hongbin , chief economist for Greater China at HSBC
Holdings Plc in  Hong Kong . “It also opens a door for widening
long-term financing channels for local governments.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irene Shen in Shanghai at 
 ishen4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allen Wan at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net  