-- 
China Unlikely to Cut Rates as Inflation Remains Threat, Ex-PBOC Aide Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-21T05:14:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/chinese-inflation-is-under-control-former-pboc-adviser-says.html
China  is unlikely to cut  interest
rates  or change its monetary policy stance until the pace of
consumer price increases slows to less than 5 percent, Yu Yongding, a former central bank adviser, said.  “Inflation is under control and the inflation rate will
fall,” Yu, a researcher with the  Chinese Academy of Social
Sciences , said in Beijing today. “I don’t think there will be
any major changes in policy either further tightening or
loosening” until cost-of-living gains decline, he said.  China has paused raising interest rates since July after
five increases in less than a year to curb inflation that’s
exceeded the 2011 target every month. Investors are speculating
that the central bank may loosen monetary tightening as  Europe ’s
debt crises hurts export demand and after third-quarter economic
growth was the slowest in two years.  Inflation moderated to 6.1 percent in September from a year
earlier after reaching a three-year high of 6.5 percent in July.
Gains in consumer prices will drop to 5.8 percent by the end of
the year, Yu said. He estimated the inflation rate may be less
than 5 percent next year as food and pork prices stabilize.  That rate is “still too high” and will prompt the
government to adopt a stable monetary policy stance with “no
new initiatives,” he said.  China’s stocks fell for a fourth day today, extending the
benchmark index’s worst weekly drop in five months, on concern
slowing economic growth and tight monetary policies will hurt
earnings. The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index slipped 0.6
percent as of the 11:30 a.m. local-time break.  No ‘Substantial’ Fall  The world’s second-biggest economy won’t see a
“substantial” fall in growth, or a so-called hard landing, in
the “foreseeable future,” Yu said.  China can still achieve 7 percent to 8 percent expansion
even amid a global recession next year as the government will be
able to introduce a stimulus if needed, Yu said.  In contrast, Societe Generale SA global strategist  Albert Edwards  said yesterday investors should prepare for a “hard
landing and yuan devaluation” in the world’s fastest-growing
major economy.  “China is undoubtedly a severely imbalanced economy,
suffering from credit-fuelled investment and housing excesses
that could easily spin out of control and crash,” London-based
Edwards said in a report yesterday.  --Lifei Zheng, Sophie Leung. Editors: Nerys Avery,  John Liu   To contact the reporter on this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net 
Sophie Leung in  Hong Kong  at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  