-- 
Chinavision to Buy China Entertainment Media for HK$2.02 Billion in Stock

-- B y   J o s h u a   F e l l m a n
-- 
2011-10-21T21:37:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/chinavision-to-buy-china-entertainment-media-for-hk-2-02-billion-in-stock.html
ChinaVision Media Group Ltd. (1060) , a Hong
Kong-based producer of films and television programs, said it
agreed to acquire  China  Entertainment Media Group Ltd. for
HK$2.02 billion ($259 million) in stock.  ChinaVision also plans to issue 619.4 million shares to a
unit of  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) , China’s biggest Internet company
by revenue, at 40  Hong Kong  cents each, according to a Hong Kong
stock exchange filing yesterday. Proceeds from the HK$247.8
million sale will be used for working capital, the company said.  China Entertainment incorporated in January after acquiring
film and television producer Asian Union. The company is aiming
to produce four to six movies a year, and four to five “large-
scale television dramas,” according to the filing. ChinaVision
controls advertising rights for the Beijing Times newspaper and
develops and distributes entertainment programs and games for
mobile devices.  “The target conducts its principal business of producing
and distributing films and television and satellite television
programs through the employment of a seasoned management team
with over 10 years of experience in the industry,” ChinaVision
said in the filing. “This complements the company’s business.”  ChinaVision said its consideration shares for the China
Entertainment acquisition are equal to 242 percent of existing
share capital. The deal won’t result in a change of control at
ChinaVision.  ChinaVision’s stock, which has been suspended since Sept.
20, will resume trading in Hong Kong on Oct. 24, the company
said. The shares had dropped 34 percent this year, compared with
the now 22 percent decline in the benchmark  Hang Seng Index. (HSI)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Fellman in Shanghai at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Fellman at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net  