-- 
China Stock Index Advances on Muni Bond, Environmental Plans

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-21T02:42:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/china-s-stock-futures-rise-on-valuation-europe-s-rescue-plan.html
China ’s benchmark stock index rose
on speculation the nation is increasing measures to spur the
economy by allowing local governments to issue bonds and
boosting investment for environmental protection.  China Minsheng Banking Corp. and Huaxia Bank Co. gained
more than 2 percent after the  finance ministry  said cities such
as Shanghai and Shenzhen will be able to sell debt themselves
instead of going through the central government. Tianjin Capital
Environmental Protection Group Co. surged 4.4 percent.
PetroChina Co., the nation’s largest oil producer, slid to a
one-month low after media reports said the company may have a
2011 refining loss of over 50 billion yuan ($7.8 billion).  “Allowing local governments to issue bonds is regarded as
a signal of loosening fiscal policy,” said Mei Luwu, a  fund
manager  at Lion Fund Management Co. in Shenzhen. “The market
will be volatile as investors weigh the economic slowdown and
its effect on companies’ earnings.”  The Shanghai Composite Index climbed 4 points, or 0.2
percent, to 2,335.37 at 10:37 a.m., even as 456 stocks dropped
and 411 gained. The CSI 300 Index added 0.5 percent to 2,533.61.  Huaxia Bank, partly owned by Deutsche Bank AG, led gains
for lenders, adding 2.6 percent to 11.15 yuan. China Minsheng
climbed 2.8 percent to 5.89 yuan.  The cities of Shanghai and Shenzhen, and the Zhejiang and
Guangdong provinces will be able to sell debt themselves instead
of going through the central government, according to a Finance
Ministry statement yesterday.  “This sends a strong signal that the central government is
determined to find a solution to resolve local debt problems,”
said  Qu Hongbin , chief economist for Greater China at HSBC
Holdings Plc in  Hong Kong . “It also opens a door for widening
long-term financing channels for local governments.”  Environmental Stocks  Tianjin Capital Environmental jumped 4.4 percent to 5.48
yuan. Sound Environmental Resources Co. added 2.2 percent to
25.09 yuan. China will push forward with environmental  tax
reform  and the State Council is studying the introduction of an
environmental protection tax.  The country plans to raise investment in environmental
protection and include it in the annual fiscal budgets for all
levels of government, according to a statement posted on the
government’s website yesterday. The government will also support
bond issues for companies undertaking environmental projects and
provide tax breaks.  The Shanghai gauge has lost 4 percent this week after some
reports showed the Chinese economy is decelerating. The nation’s
gross domestic product grew at 9.1 percent in the third quarter,
the slowest pace in two years, while foreign direct investment
rose 7.9 percent in September at the slowest pace in three
months. Industrial production and retail sales rose at a faster
pace last month.  Economic Outlook  China’s economy  may continue to slow in the last quarter of
the year and in the first half of next, National Business Daily
cited  Chen Dongqi , deputy director of the National Development
and Reform Commission’s Chinese Academy of Macroeconomic
Research, as saying at a forum. The country’s consumer price
index this year won’t likely fall below 5 percent, Chen said,
according to the newspaper.  Investors should prepare for hard landing in China, said
 Albert Edwards , global strategist at Societe Generale SA, in a
report yesterday. Chinese authorities’ efforts to deflate
property prices may lead to a crash in the overall economy as it
did in U.S. and the cessation of foreign exchange reserve growth
in the third quarter may be the “straw to break the panda’s
back,” he wrote.  Record-Low Valuations  The Shanghai index has plunged 17 percent this year,
driving down estimated price earnings to a record low of 10.8
times yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. China
has raised  interest rates  three times in 2011 and ordered
lenders to set aside a bigger portion of their deposits to curb
inflation that’s near a three-year high.  Global stocks rebounded as two people familiar with the
matter said  Europe  may combine the temporary and permanent
rescue funds to unleash as much as 940 billion euros to fight
the crisis. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  said in a joint statement they want euro-region
leaders to agree on a “comprehensive and ambitious” plan as
the EU plans another debt summit on Oct. 26.  PetroChina slid 1.8 percent to 9.57 yuan as the shares
resumed trading after being suspended yesterday. PetroChina’s
annual resource tax payments may rise to 29 billion yuan, Xinhua
News Agency reported yesterday, without saying where it got the
information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irene Shen in Shanghai at 
 ishen4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  