-- 
China May Lower 2020 Nuclear-Capacity Target by 10%, Group Says

-- B y   G u o   A i b i n g
-- 
2011-10-21T06:10:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/china-may-lower-2020-nuclear-capacity-target-by-10-group-says.html
China , the world’s biggest energy
user, may cut its 2020 nuclear power capacity goal by about 10
percent under a revised development plan to be announced this
year, said a group tasked to help implement atomic policies.  “The government wants to address public concern over the
safety of nuclear development,” Li Yongjiang, vice president of
the China Nuclear Energy Association, said in an interview in
Hong Kong, where he is attending an industry conference.
“Capacity will fall somewhere between 60 and 70 gigawatts, as
some planned projects have to be scaled back or canceled.”  China aims to install 70 gigawatts of nuclear capacity by
the end of the decade, the National Energy Administration said
last year. The government halted approvals of new atomic
stations after the March 11 earthquake and tsunami in  Japan 
crippled the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant and the disaster spurred a
global review of nuclear energy development.  The government has completed safety checks on the country’s
nuclear plants, and inspectors will submit their findings to the
State Council, or Cabinet, Li said in a speech. China’s long-
term plan to develop atomic energy is unlikely to change
significantly, he said.  Growth in China’s nuclear power industry will slow over the
next five years, compared with the last five years,  Zhang Guobao ,
the former head of the energy administration, said in a speech
posted on the website of the China Nuclear Energy Association in
August. Zhang, replaced by Liu Tienan in January as head of the
administration, is currently serving on the Chinese People’s
Political Consultative Conference. The CPPCC is a political
advisory body led by the  Communist Party of China .  Safety Concerns  The State Oceanic Administration said on April 7 that China
in the future will limit the number of reactors to be built on
the coast. The country, constructing more reactors than any
other, has at least 14 atomic units in operation, according to
data from the  World Nuclear Association .  The country, which started operating its first commercial
nuclear plant in 1994, is building at least 27 reactors and has
50 more planned, according to the association.  “Nuclear power’s strategic importance in China’s energy
sector has not changed,” Cao Shudong, assistant to the
president of China National Nuclear Corp., the country’s largest
atomic plant operator, said in an interview. “The Japan nuclear
accident only made china pay more attention to nuclear safety
and adopt more advanced technology.”  China’s National Nuclear Safety Administration, a
department under the Environmental Protection Ministry, will
increase its staff including inspectors to more than 1,000 from
about 300. By contrast, the U.S.  Nuclear Regulatory Commission 
has almost 4,000 people overseeing 104 reactors, according to
the NRC website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aibing Guo in  Hong Kong  at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 