-- 
China Cabinet Said to Consider Letting Foreign Insurers Into Auto Market

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-21T02:20:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/china-regulator-said-to-submit-plan-for-foreign-auto-insurers.html
China’s State Council is considering
a plan to allow some foreign insurance companies to offer auto
liability policies for the first time, said one person with
knowledge of the matter, boosting competition for local insurers
dominating the market.  The insurance regulator submitted a plan to the State
Council, the nation’s cabinet, to allow companies that meet
certain criteria, such as profitability, to sell mandatory
third-party liability auto insurance, said the person, asking
not to be identified because the submission is confidential.  The proposal by the China Insurance Regulatory Commission
aims to remove a restriction that the American Chamber of
Commerce said has “effectively blocked” foreign insurance
companies such as  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  from tapping
the world’s biggest car market, as drivers tend to choose the
same company for both optional and compulsory coverage. Auto
insurance contributes 80 percent of premiums at PICC Property &
Casualty Co., the nation’s biggest non-life insurer.  “This should be negative on domestic property insurers as
competition will intensify,” said Olive Xia, a Shanghai-based
analyst at Core Pacific-Yamaichi International Ltd. “Foreign
insurers’ market share should rise over time, but the short-term
impact won’t be huge” as Chinese companies are already well
established in the market.  China’s auto insurance sector has turned profitable since
2009 as regulatory controls on price competition tightened,
reversing years of losses in an industry where about 70 percent
of premiums come from auto insurance. First-half net income at
PICC almost doubled after underwriting profits from auto
insurance more than tripled.  Better Service  The regulator is seeking to tap foreign expertise to help
reverse chronic losses and improve a service aimed at better
protecting victims of traffic accidents, the person said. The
foreign insurers would need to meet criteria including solvency,
size of their parent companies and operating history in  China ,
the person said.  The regulator is also opening up a market where
underwriting losses from mandatory policies, which protect
drivers against third-party claims in accidents, totaled 9.7
billion yuan ($1.5 billion) last year, according to a statement
on the CIRC’s website on Aug. 4.  Lifting Limits  China lifted geographical and most business limitations on
foreign insurers in 2004 to comply with World Trade Organization
commitments, leaving the mandatory insurance protected for local
companies. The 20 foreign property insurers operating in China
accounted for only 1 percent of the nation’s property premiums
in the first eight months, according to official data.  The CIRC held discussions last year on the possibility of
opening up the compulsory business, three people with knowledge
of the matter said in August 2010. The Ministry of Commerce,
which leads China’s WTO negotiations, supports the
liberalization although the nation isn’t obliged to do so under
its WTO commitments, two of them said then.  The nation’s passenger-car sales rose at a faster pace for
a fourth straight month in September as automakers offered
discounts and consumers bought cars ahead of a week-long
national holiday. Deliveries of cars including sport-utility
vehicles and minivans gained 8.8 percent to 1.32 million units
last month, the China Association of Automobile Manufacturers
said Oct. 13.  -- John Liu . Editors: Linus Chua, Andreea Papuc  To contact the Bloomberg News staff for this story:
John Liu in Beijing at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  