-- 
Chinese Use of Corn to Top USDA Estimates by 7.2%, FCStone Says

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-10-21T14:12:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/chinese-use-of-corn-to-top-usda-estimates-by-7-2-fcstone-says.html
Chinese demand for corn may top a
U.S. Department of Agriculture estimate by 7.2 percent as it is
increasingly used to feed hogs, said Troy Lust, a  West Des
Moines , Iowa-based analyst at Intl. FCStone Inc.  China may use 200 million metric tons of the grain in the
2011-2012 marketing year, up from a  USDA forecast  of 186.5
million tons, Lust said at a conference in  London  today. Rising
incomes will boost demand for pork so producers will need more
grain to feed animals, he said. The country will produce a
record 182 million tons of corn, USDA data show.  “The cost of employment has skyrocketed since we started
dealing with China 15 years ago,” Lust said. “Labor costs are
rising. China’s per capita GDP and wages should continue to
grow. They like to spend and they like to eat better. They enjoy
the pork, poultry and fish.”  Corn prices plunged 23 percent in September on speculation
demand for the grain and other raw materials used to make food
would decline as the debt crisis in the European Union worsened.  Incomes in  China  have room for “explosive” growth, Lust
said. Corn consumption is expected to jump 6 percent this year
and has surged 52 percent since the 2001-02 marketing year,
according to the USDA. Stockpiles will fall 5.1 percent this
year and are 40 percent lower than they were in 2001-02, USDA
data show.  “There’s lots of room for income growth in the short
run,” Lust said. “The fundamental fact is that there are more
people, more money, they’re eating better and the question is
what does that do to the demand base for food.”  As demand for the grain has gained and prices jumped 17
percent in the past year, corn users including ethanol makers
and livestock feeders have become accustomed to higher prices,
Lust said.  Vulnerable to Shortages  “The market has learned to consume $6 corn,” he said,
adding that in China it’s the going price.  China may have used about 75 percent of its corn reserves
in an effort to cool rising prices for the grain last year, Lust
said. That leaves them vulnerable to supply shortages if adverse
weather curbs production globally, he said.  Yields have declined in the U.S. during the past two years,
USDA data show.  “If Mother Nature throws a curveball, prices will have to
go to the level that it rations demand,” Lust said.  Ethanol makers, animal feeder and industrial users of the
grain will probably stop buying before China does because people
need food more than they need fuel, he said.  “We’re going to see a slowdown in demand in other areas of
the world market before we see a slowdown in  Asia ,” Lust said.
“As long as personal GDP and wages continue to grow at a faster
rate than overall inflation, the demographics remain in place”
for higher food prices in China, he said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  