-- 
Clinton Presses Pakistan Anew to Move Quickly Against Terrorist ‘Snakes’

-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 
2011-10-21T23:24:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/clinton-presses-pakistan-anew-to-move-quickly-against-terrorist-snakes-.html
The U.S. is looking for Pakistani
action in “the next days and weeks” against Islamic extremists
who are killing Americans and destabilizing neighboring
Afghanistan, Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said.  Pakistan has permitted terrorists to operate from its
territory “for too long,” Clinton said yesterday in Islamabad,
where she led a high-level American delegation in talks with
Pakistani leaders. Pakistan must act to eliminate violent
extremists or risk diminishing support from the U.S. and further
instability at home, she said.  There was no public evidence of a breakthrough. Pakistani
officials pressed for time to pursue peace talks while Clinton
said it was in Pakistan’s interest to move against the
militants.  “You can’t keep snakes in your backyard and expect them
only to bite your neighbors,” she said after two days of talks.
“Eventually, those snakes are going to turn on whoever has them
in the backyard.”  The Obama administration has gone public with criticism of
Pakistan’s intelligence service and Army for ties to the Haqqani
faction of the Taliban blamed for the worst attacks on the U.S.
in  Afghanistan . Clinton has said recent attacks, such as one
against the American Embassy in Kabul, are exhausting American
patience with Pakistan.  The importance of the talks was demonstrated by the
officials who accompanied Clinton, including Central
Intelligence Agency Director David Petraeus and the chairman of
the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Martin Dempsey.  ‘In-Depth Conversation’  Clinton delivered a message that Pakistan must show results
from cracking down on militant sanctuaries or risk further
pressure from Congress to cut off billions of dollars in aid and
to mount U.S. attacks against militants’ sanctuaries in
Pakistan.  Clinton said Pakistani and U.S. officials “had a very in-
depth conversation with specifics” on how to improve counter-
terrorism efforts and plans to put those into action in “the
next days and weeks -- not months and years.”  During a meeting with Pakistani journalists, Clinton
disclosed for the first time that the U.S., at  Pakistan ’s
request, secretly met Haqqani representatives.  “We have reached out to the Taliban, we have reached out
to the Haqqani network, to test their willingness and their
sincerity,” she said.  A couple months after the Haqqani meeting, the group
launched a 19-hour assault on the U.S. Embassy in Kabul Sept.
13.  Border Operations  Clinton’s visit came as the U.S.-led NATO force in
Afghanistan continued “enhanced operations” against the
Haqqanis along the border with Pakistan.  U.S. and Afghan troops have stepped up searches for the
guerrillas in Khost province, which abuts the Pakistani district
of North Waziristan where the Haqqani network  maintains its
headquarters.  The U.S. is continuing the offensive and is pressing
Pakistan to “squeeze” them by attacking rear bases in
Pakistan, Clinton said at a press conference with Foreign
Minister Hina Rabbani Khar.  In meetings that included Prime Minister  Syed Yousuf Raza Gilani , Chief of Army Staff General Ashfaq Parvez Kayani and
Ahmad Shuja Pasha, head of the Inter-Services Intelligence
Directorate, the Pakistanis insisted they don’t support
militants and that the country wants to seek peace talks before
expanding army offensives.  Pakistani Denial  There is no “support for any safe heaven inside
Pakistan,” Khar told reporters, stressing that Pakistan has
suffered from terrorism more than almost any country since the
Sept. 11, 2001, attacks and U.S. invasion of Afghanistan.  Terror attacks in the South Asian nation have killed at
least 35,000 people since 2006, and economic growth last year
plunged to one of the lowest rates in the past decade, according
to official figures.  As for “any future strategy,” Khar told reporters, the
government “will be guided by” the All-Party Conference
resolution calling for a domestic dialogue to disarm homegrown
militants. Pakistan’s top politicians, including Gilani, last
month endorsed that strategy.  Gilani urged Clinton “to give peace a chance” before
insisting on more military action. The meeting’s atmosphere was
“cordial and frank,” according to a statement from his office.  Peace Talks  Clinton acknowledged in the journalists’ roundtable that
“some of our Pakistani counterparts are concerned” that
military action is “not an effective way to proceed, that
somehow there should be an effort to negotiate a cease-fire
first.”  While the U.S. is open to peace talks, “we don’t know
whether this will work, but we believe strongly that we must try
it,” she said. She said the U.S., Afghanistan and Pakistan are
working together to see how reconciliation with extremists might
be possible.  That doesn’t mean U.S. forces will stop hunting the
militants. To force them to negotiate, she said, “we have to be
fighting” to weaken them.  The U.S. talks in Pakistan follow a year of heightened
tensions in U.S.-Pakistani relations, which spiked after the
clandestine U.S. commando raid into Pakistan that killed al-
Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden in May. Pakistani officials have
said publicly they worry that the U.S. might try a bigger
military assault to attack the Haqqani network’s bases.  Ties to Militants  Last month, Dempsey’s predecessor as U.S. military chief,
Admiral Mike Mullen, drew criticism from Pakistani officials
after he said the Haqqani faction of the Taliban acts as a
“veritable arm” of the ISI, Pakistan’s main spy agency, and is
fighting a “ proxy war ” in Afghanistan. Clinton has gone
further, saying the army, Pakistan’s most powerful institution,
also has ties to the militants.  In June, President  Barack Obama  announced that the first
10,000 U.S. troops will leave Afghanistan by the end of this
year. U.S. and NATO troops plan to end major combat operations
there by the end of 2014, and a successful drawdown depends on
cooperation with Pakistan to eliminate militants who will try to
fill any void.  Talat Masood, a retired army lieutenant general and
security analyst in Islamabad, said in an interview yesterday
that the Pakistanis told the U.S. side, “You want us to
undertake a military action against the Haqqanis, but we will
only do that once we feel that the  peace process  doesn’t work.”  Mother-in-Law  “I think the U.S. has pushed the ball in the Pakistani
court by ceding to its demand that we should give peace a
chance,” said Hasan-Askari Rizvi, a Lahore-based political
analyst. “Now the biggest question is whether Pakistan will be
able to produce something meaningful that will bring Haqqanis,
Taliban and Americans to sit and talk.”  At a town hall-style forum, a woman from a chamber of
commerce in the war-torn northwest border region said that
Pakistan feels unfairly maligned by the U.S.  The U.S. is like “a mother-in-law” who is never
satisfied, the woman said, prompting laughter throughout the
hall, including from Clinton. “We are trying to please you, and
every time you come and visit us, you have a new idea, so you
tell us, ‘You’re not doing enough and you need to work
harder.’”  “Now that I am a mother-in-law, I totally understand what
you’re saying,” Clinton responded, insisting that both sides
are working hard to overcome a “trust deficit” and listen to
one another. “Perhaps mother-in-laws can learn new ways also.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Islamabad at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  