-- 
Colombia’s Peso Advances Most in a Week on Optimism Over Europe

-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 
2011-10-21T19:52:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/colombia-s-peso-advances-most-in-a-week-on-optimism-over-europe.html
Colombia ’s peso gained the most in a
week as optimism European leaders are moving closer to
containing the region’s debt crisis buoyed appetite for higher-
yielding, emerging-market assets.  The peso climbed 0.9 percent to 1,892.33 per  U.S. dollar ,
from 1,908.75 yesterday. Today’s gain pared the peso’s drop this
week to 0.3 percent.  European finance ministers are meeting today, starting a
six-day negotiation over how to save  Greece  from default and
shield banks from the fallout. As much as 940 billion euros
($1.3 trillion) might be deployed to fight the debt crisis,
seeking to break a deadlock between Germany and  France  that is
forcing leaders to hold two summits within four days.  “Colombian markets move to the beat of  Europe ,” said
Guillermo Puentes, head trader at Banco de Comercio Exterior de
Colombia SA, known as Bancoldex. “The high correlation with
external markets should continue while concerns over the debt
crisis remain.”  The peso will gain toward 1,700 pesos per dollar in the
next three to six months, RBS Securities Inc. strategists Flavia Cattan-Naslausky and Felipe Hernandez wrote in a report today.  The fourth quarter is a “seasonally weak” period for the
peso, “providing a good entry point for positioning ahead of
renewed appreciation pressures early next year,” they wrote.  The yield on Colombia’s benchmark 10 percent bonds due in
July 2024 fell two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to
7.53 percent. The bond’s price rose 0.192 centavo to 119.742
centavos per peso.  La Nina  The yield earlier rose to 7.6 percent, its highest level in
two weeks on bets heavier-than-average rain will push food
prices higher and stoke inflation.  Colombia’s weather agency said earlier this week that the
La Nina weather pattern, which triggers above-average rainfall,
may return in December and last through March. Rain in the first
half of October was equivalent to the historical average for the
whole month, according to the government. Floods last year and
at the beginning of this year damaged crops and choked off
farmers’ supply routes, pushing food prices higher.  “People fear inflation will quicken because of the
rains,” said Puentes.  Colombia’s consumer prices rose 0.31 percent in September
from the previous month, driven by higher housing and food
costs, after declining 0.03 percent in August. Annual inflation
quickened to 3.73 percent, within the central bank’s 2 percent
to 4 percent target.  The gap between yields on government inflation-indexed
bonds due 2013 and similar-maturity fixed-rate debt, a gauge of
annual consumer price increase expectations known as the
breakeven rate, rose to 3.49 percentage points today from 2.83
percentage points a month ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  