-- 
Croatian Must Cut Spending More, Central Banker Rohatinski Says

-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 
2011-10-21T08:16:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/croatian-must-cut-spending-more-central-banker-rohatinski-says.html
Croatia ’s government, preparing to
join the  European Union  in July 2013, needs to cut more waste
from government administration spending to avoid an economic
crash, central bank Governor Zeljko Rohatinski said.  The fiscal deficit of the former Yugoslav republic will
widen to 6.2 percent of gross domestic product this year,
Rohatinski said at a conference today in the seaside town of
Rovinj, Croatia. That is higher than his last estimate of 6
percent of GDP, made in May.  “We cannot exit the crisis without key reforms, contrary
to unrealistic expectations that global economy and EU accession
will act as an engine that will pull Croatia without painful
cuts,”  he said.  Croatia is struggling to recover from a two-year recession,
which foreign direct investment, a driver of the economy,
falling to $583 million in 2010 from $6 billion in 2008. The
country also faces general elections on Dec. 4, with the  Social
Democrats  leading an Alliance for Change against incumbent
Premier  Jadranka Kosor , raising additional concerns  about
campaign spending promises.  The economy expanded 0.8 percent in the second quarter of
2011 from a year earlier, after a 0.8 percent contraction in the
first three months, though it is not based on “real
development,” he said, adding the country is at a “stage of
stagnation.”  Croatia has one of the lowest labor-force participation
rates in  Europe , at about 50 percent, according to the
 International Labour Organization  in Geneva.  World Bank Warning  In the country of 4.5 million people, there are 1.4 million
employed persons supporting 1.1 million retirees, in addition to
providing benefits for welfare recipients and war veterans,
according to the data released in August by the national
statistics office.  The  World Bank  on Oct. 14 urged Croatia to overhaul its
welfare system so that benefits are based on needs, not
entitlement. The Washington-based  lender  lowered its 2011
economic growth forecast to 0.8 percent from 1 percent,  World
Bank  Croatian representative Hongjoo Hahm said in an interview
in Zagreb. An “optimistic scenario” sees gross domestic
product growing 1.5 percent in 2012, he said.  Rohatinksi said that  To contact the reporter responsible for the story: Jasmina
Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for the story: James M. Gomez
at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  