-- 
Cushing Crude Oil Stockpiles Rise 0.3%, Satellite Survey Shows

-- B y   A a r o n   C l a r k
-- 
2011-10-21T14:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/cushing-crude-oil-stockpiles-rise-0-3-satellite-survey-shows.html
Crude oil inventories in Cushing,
Oklahoma, rose 0.3 percent on Oct. 18 from Oct. 13, according to
data compiled by  DigitalGlobe Inc. (DGI)   Stockpiles held in floating-roof tanks at the hub increased
93,000 barrels to 28.9 million, satellite images taken by the
Longmont, Colorado-based company show. The Energy Department
said this week that Cushing inventories, including floating and
fixed tanks, totaled 31.1 million barrels as of Oct. 14.  Cushing is the physical delivery point for New York
Mercantile Exchange oil futures contracts and the largest crude-
trading and storage hub in the U.S. The hub has a  working
storage  capacity of 48 million barrels, the Energy Department
said May 31.  The  DigitalGlobe  estimate is based on images of 234
operational floating-top tanks at Cushing, the satellite company
said. The number of fixed-roof tanks at the hub is 83.  Cushing’s floating-roof tanks are used mostly to store
crude oil, according to  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil
Associates LLC in Houston, who estimates that 90 percent of the
storage volume in the hub is floating tanks. Fixed-roof tanks
are for storing petroleum products with lower vapor pressures,
such as jet fuel and distillate, he said.  Data Releases  Some fixed-roof tanks in Cushing may have been retrofitted
with internal floating roofs and may be used to store crude oil,
according to Lipow. Heavier crudes can also be kept in fixed-
roof tanks.  DigitalGlobe data is released twice each week at 10:30 a.m.
New York time on Mondays and Fridays. For the Friday release,
the information is collected from the previous Saturday through
Wednesday. For the Monday release, it’s from the previous
Thursday or Friday.  When clouds obscure the satellite view, data is used from
the last day in which there was a full collection. The highest
percent of collection data will be used when cloud cover
obscures images during a collection period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Clark  in New York at 
 aclark27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  