-- 
Cytec Rises 15% After Saying It Will Review Options for Unit

-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 
2011-10-21T20:09:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/cytec-reviewing-options-for-coating-unit-amid-slowing-demand.html
Cytec Industries Inc. (CYT) , a maker of
reinforced plastics used in airplanes, gained the most in 15
months after saying its considering options for its largest
business unit because of slowing global demand.  Cytec is “reviewing all options” for its paint-making
segment, known as the coating resins unit, Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Shane Fleming said today on a conference call.
Fleming declined to specify what the options may be, saying the
company will provide more detail in January.  Cytec rose 15 percent to $42.90 at the close in  New York ,
the biggest gain since July 2010. The company, based in Woodland
Park,  New Jersey , is trying to boost earnings from the unit by
closing a plant in  Brazil , exiting underperforming product lines
and developing new waterborne and radiation-cured coatings,
Fleming said.  Coating resins, which accounted for 52 percent of the
company’s revenue last year, posted a 7.7 percent drop in third-
quarter earnings as sales volumes fell 10 percent from a year
earlier, led by  Europe , Cytec said today in a  presentation . A
similar sales decline is likely in the current quarter as
industrial customers cut coating purchases, Fleming said.  “Given the potential for a protracted slowdown in demand
in a number of our major coatings markets, we are not confident
that these ongoing initiatives will be sufficient to yield the
sustained improvements in profitability that we require from
this business,” Fleming said.  The coatings unit will report an operating loss of $5
million to $8 million in the fourth quarter, reducing the
segment’s full-year earnings to $57 million to $60 million,
Fleming said. The company previously forecast earning as much as
$80 million from coatings this year, he said.  Cytec in February completed the sale of a chemical business
unit to HIG Capital LLC for $180 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  