-- 
Democratic Committees Raise More, Save Less Than Republicans

-- B y   K r i s t i n   J e n s e n
-- 
2011-10-21T00:30:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/democratic-committees-raise-more-save-less-than-republicans.html
Democratic Party committees topped
their rivals in fundraising last month while their overall cash
edge lessened as the  Democratic National Committee  spent to
support President Barack Obama’s jobs plan.  The DNC finished September with $14.7 million in cash. The
 Republican National Committee  had $11.4 million on hand. At the
end of June, the DNC had more than $21 million in the bank,
compared with $7.3 million for the RNC, according to U.S.
Federal Election Commission filings.  The DNC is still out-raising its rival, bringing in
$14.7 million last month to the RNC’s $9.3 million. The
Democratic committee will be devoted to helping Obama win
re-election next year, and most of its haul came from its share
of a joint fundraising committee with the president.  “We’re proud of our fundraising efforts and have no
concerns about our balance,” said  Brad Woodhouse , a DNC
spokesman. “Our money has been well spent, much of it in the
last month on efforts in support of the president’s jobs bill,
which grows more popular by the day.”  The Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee finished
September with $10.9 million on hand, compared with $6.8 million
for the  National Republican Senatorial Committee , according to
figures released by the committees. The situation in the House
was reversed, with the  National Republican Congressional
Committee  sitting on $12.2 million in cash, compared with
$9.5 million for the Democratic Congressional Campaign
Committee.  Senate, House  In September, the Senate Democratic committee raised
$4.5 million, compared with $3.4 million for its Republican
counterpart. The House Democratic committee raised $6.6 million,
compared with $3.8 million for  House Republicans .  The NRCC had $1.5 million in debt and the DCCC had
$2 million. The DNC had $9.6 million in debt at the end of
September, compared with $14.5 million for the RNC. The NRSC
said it had no debt. DSCC spokesman Matt Canter didn’t release
his campaign’s debt figure.  The Senate reports aren’t filed electronically and
therefore aren’t immediately available for review.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristin Jensen in Washington at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  