-- 
Democrats Have Financial Advantage in Contest to Hold Senate

-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 
2011-10-21T04:01:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/democrats-have-financial-advantage-in-contest-to-hold-senate.html
Senate Democrats , in danger of
losing control of the chamber next November, hold a cash
advantage a year before the election as each of their most
vulnerable incumbents banked at least $1 million and some have
far more money on hand.  “At this stage of the fundraising process, to already be
into seven figures is not to be dismissed lightly,” said Glenn Totten, a Democratic consultant who has worked on Senate
campaigns. “All incumbents are going to have to explain to the
public why they are part of the solution and haven’t been part
of the problem. And that takes money.”  While the Democrats’ money edge is helpful, there is time
for the Republicans to catch up financially, said  Jennifer Duffy , Senate editor for the  Cook Political Report , a
Washington-based publication that rates congressional races.  In addition, outside groups are expected to spend millions
of dollars on the most competitive races, cutting into an
individual candidate’s financial advantage, she said.  American Crossroads  and Crossroads GPS, the two Republican-
leaning independent groups organized with help from former White
House aide Karl Rove, have said they plan to raise more than
$240 million for the 2012 elections. Thus far, those groups have
targeted the re-election of President Barack Obama, although in
2010 they took on big roles in Senate races.  Democrats have their own so-called super political action
committee raising unlimited donations to help the party retain
the Senate.  Most Competitive Races  “In the most competitive races, candidate fundraising
doesn’t mean what it used to,” Duffy said.  Democrats hold a 53-47 majority, including two
independents, and are defending 23 seats compared to 10 for the
Republicans.  Nine Democratic and two Republican-held seats are
considered competitive by two Washington-based publications
rating congressional races, Cook and the  Rothenberg Political
Report . A 10th Democratic seat, held by retiring Senator  Kent Conrad , is expected to flip to the Republicans, Cook and
Rothenberg predict.  Senator John Cornyn of  Texas , chairman of the  National
Republican Senatorial Committee , said some party donors may be
waiting until after the nominee is chosen in the primary.  “A lot of people just want to know who the nominee will be
and are not necessarily engaged in supporting one candidate or
another in a contested primary,” he said. “I don’t think there
will be any lack of financial wherewithal.”  Vulnerable Democrats  Senator Bill Nelson of  Florida  had the most money as of
Sept. 30 among vulnerable Democratic incumbents, $7.5 million.
He raised $9.1 million in this election cycle. His leading
Republican challenger, former Senator George LeMieux, had $1
million in cash and raised $1.4 million.  Senator  Claire McCaskill  of  Missouri , elected in 2006 with
49.6 percent of the vote, had $3.7 million to spend after
raising $5.6 million through Sept. 30. McCaskill had more money
in the bank than her two Republican challengers combined;
Representative Todd Akin had $1.2 million and former state
Treasurer Sarah Steelman had $561,950. Akin raised $1.3 million
for his Senate race, while Steelman brought in $666,608 and lent
her campaign $400,000.  Senator Jon Tester of  Montana  had $3.1 million in the bank
while Republican challenger Dennis Rehberg had $1.8 million.
Tester raised $5.1 million, compared with $2.7 million for
Rehberg, a U.S. representative.  Nebraska and  Ohio   In Nebraska, Senator Ben Nelson reported $3.1 million cash-
on-hand, almost double the $1.6 million for state Attorney
General Jon Bruning, his top Republican competitor. Nelson
raised $4.7 million to $2.4 million for Bruning.  Ohio Democratic Senator Sherrod Brown reported $4.2 million
to spend, compared with $3.3 million for his Republican rival,
state Treasurer Josh Mandel. Brown took in $8.3 million for his
campaign; Mandel raised $3.8 million.  Still, in a sign of the challenges Democratic incumbents
face, both Nelson of  Nebraska  and Brown of Ohio were outraised
in the third quarter. Mandel raised $1.5 million to Brown’s $1.3
million from July to September. Bruning raised $586,633 and
Nelson took in $442,576.  Among vulnerable Republican incumbents, Scott Brown of
 Massachusetts  amassed the largest re-election account, $10.5
million, and raised $8.3 million. Former White House aide and
Harvard University professor  Elizabeth Warren , who entered the
Democratic primary in September, raised $3.2 million and had a
bank balance of $3 million. A Democratic primary competitor,
Newton Mayor Setti Warren, had $44,023 in the bank. He raised
227,543 for his campaign.  Berkley, Heller Race  Representative Shelley Berkley of  Nevada , who is trying to
unseat Republican Senator Dean Heller, had $3.2 million in the
bank. Heller, appointed in April to succeed  John Ensign , had
$2.8 million. Heller raised $3.2 million and Berkley $3.1
million.  Democrats also held fundraising advantages where their
incumbents are retiring.  Tim Kaine, the former Democratic National Committee
chairman, is running in  Virginia  to succeed Senator Jim Webb.
Kaine raised $3.6 million and had $2.5 million cash on hand.
Former Republican Senator George Allen, trying to reclaim the
seat he lost to Webb in 2006, brought in $3.5 million and had
$1.8 million in the bank.  Representative Tammy Baldwin, a Democrat running in
 Wisconsin  for the seat being vacated by retiring  Herb Kohl , had
$1.5 million to spend and raised $1.3 million. Former Republican
Representative Mark Neumann had $282,169 in cash after raising
$302,033 and borrowing $5,725. Former Republican Governor Tommy Thompson filed a  statement of candidacy  with the FEC on Oct. 3.  In  New Mexico , Representative Martin Heinrich reported $1.1
million in the bank in his effort to succeed fellow Democrat
Jeff Bingaman in the Senate. He raised $1.5 million. Former
Representative Heather Wilson, a Republican who unsuccessfully
sought the Senate seat in 2008, had $952,898 on hand. She
brought in $1.3 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Litvan in  Washington  at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 