-- 
Piecemeal Plan for Obama Jobs Bill Fails First Senate Test

-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 
2011-10-21T15:42:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/democrats-bid-to-pass-part-of-obama-jobs-plan-fails-in-senate.html
Democrats failed in their first
attempt to salvage parts of President Barack Obama’s $447
billion jobs plan as the  U.S. Senate  blocked a proposal designed
to keep state workers employed.  The vote last night was 50-50, falling short of the 60
needed to advance a bill Obama campaigned for this week on a
mid-Atlantic bus tour. It would send cash-strapped state
governments an additional $35 billion to help prevent layoffs of
public-sector employees. Republicans objected to a 0.5 percent
tax on millionaires that would have financed the plan.  “The American people want us to do something about the
jobs crisis,” said Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a
Kentucky Republican. “What Republicans have been saying is that
raising taxes on business owners isn’t the way to do it.”  Following the defeat,  Senate Democrats  plan to push a
second part of Obama’s jobs plan today. They are scheduled to
announce a proposal to spend $57 billion for roads, bridges,
airports and other infrastructure to be paid for by a 0.7
percent surtax on millionaires, according to a Senate Democratic
leadership aide who wasn’t authorized to speak publicly.  The Senate last night also blocked a Republican
counterproposal to repeal a requirement, designed to improve tax
collections, that the government begin withholding 3 percent of
payments to federal contractors starting in 2013.  Three Votes Short  The vote was 57-43, three short of the 60 needed to advance
it. Democrats objected that the Republican proposal, which was
lifted from Obama’s jobs bill, would be financed by rescinding
$30 billion that has already been appropriated by Congress.  The House plans to vote next week on a proposal to repeal
the 3 percent withholding, Majority Leader Eric Cantor, a
 Virginia  Republican, said in a statement today.  “For the second time in two weeks, every single Republican
in the U.S. Senate has chosen to obstruct a bill that would
create jobs and get our economy going again,” Obama said in a
statement after the vote. “Every American deserves an
explanation as to why Republicans refuse to step up to the plate
and do what’s necessary to create jobs and grow the economy
right now.”  Democrats have resorted to trying to pass Obama’s jobs
package in pieces after it was defeated last week in the Senate.
The package would expand a payroll tax break due to expire at
the end of this year, increase spending on public works projects
and extend jobless benefits.  Not ‘Too Much to Ask’  Senator  Dick Durbin  of  Illinois , the chamber’s second-
ranking Democrat, defended the proposed surtax. “The money
that’s brought in from that will spare hundreds of thousands of
teachers, firefighters and policemen from being laid off,” he
said. “I don’t think it’s too much to ask.”  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said
last night’s vote would be the first in a series of efforts to
pass components of the administration’s plan.  Democrats  Ben Nelson  of  Nebraska  and Mark Pryor of  Arkansas 
voted against the proposal last night, as did independent Joe Lieberman of  Connecticut . No Republican supported the measure.  Republicans have ruled out tax increases, though with
public opinion polls showing support for higher levies on the
wealthy, Democrats are pressing the issue. A Bloomberg News-
Washington Post national poll released last week found 68
percent in favor of raising taxes on those earning more than
$250,000.  Obama went on a three-day bus tour of  North Carolina  and
Virginia earlier this week, trying to drum up support for his
plan. “I need you to give Congress a piece of your mind,”
Obama said in Fletcher, North Carolina. “Tell your elected
leaders to do the right thing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  