-- 
Deutsche Boerse Says It Requested Extension of EU Review

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-10-21T09:48:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/deutsche-boerse-says-it-requested-extension-of-eu-review-1-.html
Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  sought an
extension of the European Union’s review of its plan to combine
with  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  in order to better respond to regulators’
competition objections to the deal.  Deutsche Boerse said it needed more time to analyze the
European Commission’s charge sheet, or statement of objections,
and prepare a response. The commission, the 27-nation EU’s
antitrust regulator, set a new deadline of Dec. 22 to complete
its review of the deal, according to its website today.  “Given the complex issues involved and our desire to
provide a full and comprehensive response to the commission, we
have asked for and received seven additional working days to
provide our submission,”  Frank Herkenhoff , a spokesman for
 Deutsche Boerse , said in a phone interview today.  The request comes with Deutsche Boerse and NYSE Euronext
scheduled to give reasons why their deal should close at an EU
hearing on Oct. 27 and 28 in Brussels, according to two people,
who declined to be identified because the hearing is private.
The companies will address allegations listed in an EU statement
of objections this month that the merger would harm competition
for derivatives trading, clearing and index licensing, three
people familiar with the review said last week.  EU regulators are probing the merger, which would put more
than 90 percent of the region’s exchange-traded-derivatives
market and about 30 percent of European  stock trading  in the
hands of one organization. The regulator has cited concerns over
reduced innovation in derivatives products and technology.  Herkenhoff declined to comment on the hearing dates.
Amelia Torres, a spokeswoman for the commission declined to
comment on the review process.  The European Commission can require companies to change
their behavior or to sell off units to eliminate possible
competition concerns.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  