-- 
DirecTV Threatens to Pull More Than 25 Fox Channels in Fee-Hike Dispute

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-10-21T20:14:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/directv-threatens-to-pull-fox-channels.html
DirecTV (DTV) , the largest U.S. satellite-
TV provider, is threatening to pull more than 25 channels owned
by News Corp.’s Fox Networks to “mitigate the madness” of
programming price increases by content providers, a company
executive said.  Fox is asking DirecTV to pay 40 percent more for channels
including FX, National Geographic and several regional sports
networks, according to DirecTV Executive Vice President Derek Chang. DirecTV will remove the channels from its package
offerings by Nov. 1 if Fox doesn’t lower its asking price, Chang
said in an interview today.  DirecTV is the latest company to spar with content
providers about programming price increases.  Cablevision Systems
Corp. (CVC)  and Verizon Communications Inc.’s FiOS pulled the  Tennis
Channel  last month after the network asked for “significantly
higher” fees. In October 2010, Cablevision paid Fox what it
called “an unfair price” for World Series games after a two-
week blackout.  “We continue to talk to Fox and we’re not opposed to
paying reasonable increases, but 40 percent is certainly out
there,” Chang said. “These are challenging economic times.
We’re trying to protect our customers.”  Chang said the El Segundo, California-based company
“applauds” other pay-TV operators that have taken similar
public stands against content providers.  ‘Bad Faith Tactics’  Fox released a statement last night citing DirecTV’s use of
“bad faith tactics” in going public with threats to remove the
stations. Chang said a  statement  posted last night on a DirecTV
website about the fee increase was intended to alert customers
that the channels may disappear.  “The stakes are high since DirecTV has about 19 million
subscriber homes, a little under 20 percent of  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s
market that it would lose audience and advertising dollars
for,” said  David Joyce , an analyst at Miller Tabak & Co. in New
York.  Fox said it has proposed keeping its stations on DirecTV as
negotiations continue. Chang says talks are ongoing.  “Our hope is to continue to negotiate with Fox to come to
a deal to keep these channels up. That’s the best thing for all
our customers. That being said, the gap is significant and if we
can’t close it, we have to deal with reality,” Chang said.  News Corp.’s chief operating officer,  Chase Carey , was
DirecTV’s chief executive officer from 2004 to 2009.  DirecTV rose 1 percent to $46.42 at the close in  New York .
The shares have risen 16 percent this year. New York-based News
Corp. rose 2.1 percent to $17.20 and has gained 18 percent this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  