-- 
Doctor Who Warned of Chavez Death Says He Had to Flee Venezuela

-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 
2011-10-21T17:34:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/doctor-who-warned-of-chavez-death-says-he-had-to-flee-venezuela.html
A Venezuelan doctor who claimed that
President  Hugo Chavez  has less than two years to live because of
cancer said he was forced to flee the country.  Dr. Salvador Navarrete, who said he was Chavez’s doctor in
2002, said in an  interview  in the Oct. 16 edition of the Mexico
City-based daily Milenio that the president has a
retroperitoneal sarcoma and is unlikely to survive the next two
years. In a letter published today in the Caracas-based daily
Tal Cual, Navarrete said the publication of the interview had
forced him to leave the country with his family. He went public
to help the country prepare for the “traumatic” event, he
said.  “It worries me that the president and his political
advisers don’t understand the magnitude of his illness,”
Salvador Navarrete wrote in a letter published in  Tal Cual . His
“passing away in this moment could be more traumatic than the 
politicians may think.”  In the interview with Milenio, Navarrete said he met with
other doctors of the Chavez family to share information and came
to the diagnosis of sarcoma. In the letter, Navarrete said he
drew his conclusions from publicly available information.  “It’s no more than a clinical exercise that any
professional working in medicine can come to in order to arrive
at a probable -- and never definitive -- diagnosis and
prognosis,” he said in the letter.  Baseball-Sized  Chavez, who has declined to reveal exactly what kind of
cancer he has except to say that he had a baseball-sized tumor
removed from his pelvic area, said yesterday he’s “free of
illness” after returning from Cuba, where he underwent tests.
The 57-year-old paratrooper says he’ll take part in elections
next year where he hopes to win by “knockout” and secure a
third consecutive six-year term.  While acknowledging that he had spoken to Milenio,
Navarrete said he thought the journalist was writing a book
about Latin American leaders and that much of what he said would
not be published.  Navarrete fled to  Mexico  after intelligence agents visited
his clinical practice, Tal Cual said yesterday. The
Communications Ministry did not immediately return a call from
Bloomberg News asking for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 