-- 
Duet Commodities’ October Return Flat After September Drop

-- B y   L a r s   P a u l s s o n
-- 
2011-10-21T15:15:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/duet-commodities-october-return-flat-after-september-drop-1-.html
Duet Commodities Fund, which manages
more than $100 million, is largely unchanged in October after it
had its first monthly decline of the year last month as
commodities slumped the most since 2008.  London-based Duet Commodities gained 0.2 percent to date in
October, Chief Investment Officer Tony Hall said today by e-
mail. The fund, which trades mainly energy and metals, fell 3.8
percent in September, according to a report e-mailed to
investors. That’s the third monthly drop since the fund started
in July last year. It returned 28 percent this year through
September.  Crude futures on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  fell 11
percent in September while the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index
of 24 raw materials declined 12 percent, the most since November
2008, on concern a weak economic outlook in  Europe  and  China 
will push the world into a recession.  “The  commodities markets  seem caught between the physical
reality and future concerns,” Chief Investment Officer Tony Hall said in the report. “Since August markets have had to
decipher between the reality of tight current physical markets,
particularly in energy, and substantial concerns about the
future demand driven by political and economic events in
Europe,” said Hall, a former head of distillates trading at the
alliance of Credit Suisse AG and Glencore International AG.  Significant Inflows  The fund had “significant inflows over the past few
months,” said Hall, a former Global Head of Middle Distillate
Oil Trading at Deutsche Bank AG in  London . He declined to be
more specific.  Investors pulled almost $10 billion out of commodity
investments in September, the most since at least the beginning
of 2009,  Barclays Capital  said today in an e-mailed report.
Commodity assets under management fell to $393 million last
month from $447 billion in August, the bank said.  Hedge funds are largely unregulated investment vehicles
whose managers can trade any asset, aim to make money regardless
of whether markets rise or fall and participate substantially in
profits from money invested.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  