-- 
Blackstone to Buy Suburban U.S. Offices for $1.08 Billion

-- B y   B e i   H u   a n d   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 
2011-10-21T21:06:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/duke-realty-agrees-to-sell-portfolio-to-blackstone-for-1-08-bln.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the world’s
largest private-equity firm, agreed to pay $1.08 billion to buy
 Duke Realty Corp. (DRE) ’s suburban office holdings in U.S. cities
including Chicago, Dallas and Atlanta.  Blackstone Real Estate Partners VII will buy the 82
buildings with a combined 10.1 million square feet (938,000
square meters) of space, Indianapolis-based Duke Realty said in
a statement. They include “substantially” all of Duke’s wholly
owned suburban office properties in the Midwest and South.  Blackstone has invested more than $7 billion in real estate
this year, and has raised $4 billion for its latest property
fund that the New York-based firm expects to exceed $10 billion,
Chairman  Stephen Schwarzman  said yesterday. Managers such as
Fortress Investment Group LLC,  Colony Capital LLC  and Starwood
Capital Group LLC also are pitching new property funds.  “Blackstone has a lot of capital to deploy so they need to
deploy it in large chunks,”  Ben Thypin , director of market
analysis for New York-based Real Capital Analytics Inc., said in
a telephone interview. “It seems like they got a good discount
to what comparable properties have been trading for in those
regions, especially considering how well-leased and relatively
new the properties are.”  Below Average Price  The planned purchase price is $107 per square foot, below
the $121 average this year for suburban office buildings in the
Midwest and Southeast, according to Thypin. For properties built
after 1980 in those regions, the price was $133 a square foot.  Almost 85 percent of the office space is leased and the
buildings have an average age of 15 years. Blackstone will take
over the leasing and management of the properties.  Nationally, the vacancy rate for U.S. suburban office
properties was 18 percent in the third quarter, down from 18.5
percent a year earlier, according to CBRE Econometric Advisors.
Offices in downtown areas have performed better, with a vacancy
rate of 13 percent in the third quarter.  Quarterly Loss  Blackstone yesterday reported an unexpected third-quarter
loss on a drop in the value of its buyout holdings. In April,
Blackstone said a fourfold increase in profit from its real
estate funds helped the company post its best quarterly results
since going public in 2007.  In September, the company agreed to buy 36 U.S. shopping
centers from Equity One Inc. for $473.1 million. It also paid $9
billion for the U.S. malls of Melbourne-based  Centro Properties
Group  in June in its largest transaction since the leveraged
buyout boom collapsed in 2007.  Duke Realty’s Chief Executive Officer Denny Oklak said the
sale is “a continuation of our strategic plan to reduce our
investment in suburban office properties.”  Money generated from the transaction will be used for the
acquisition and development of industrial and medical
properties, and to reduce debt, he said in the statement.  The purchase price includes $30 million of assumed debt,
according to Duke’s statement.  Duke Realty rose 5.6 percent to $11.28 at the close in  New
York . The shares have lost 9.5 percent this year compared with a
1.4 percent drop in the Bloomberg REIT index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bei Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  