-- 
Dynegy Extends Distressed-Debt Swap Again as Bondholders Withdraw Offers

-- B y   R i c h a r d   B r a v o
-- 
2011-10-21T16:36:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/dynegy-extends-debt-swap-again-as-bondholders-withdraw-offers.html
Dynegy Inc. (DYN)  extended for a second
time the deadline for its distressed-debt exchange, which would
swap as much as $1.25 billion of its outstanding notes for cash
and new securities with lower face value.  Bondholders tendered $90.8 million as of yesterday, the
Houston-based company said in an Oct. 20 statement, or 7.3
percent of the total amount the company is seeking to exchange.
On Oct. 13, the original deadline for the offer, bondholders had
tendered $100.5 million of notes, or 8 percent of the total
amount sought.  The third-largest independent U.S. power producer offered
its bondholders cash and new debt worth 28 percent to 60 percent
less than the face value of their notes in an exchange meant to
avoid default. The new deadline for holders to swap their debt
is Oct. 27 at midnight,  New York  time.  “It gives us more time to continue conversations with
bondholders,” Katy Sullivan, a Dynegy spokeswoman, said in a
telephone interview. “This extension doesn’t change the terms
of the offer. There are lots of possibilities in terms of
managing the debt and we’re exploring a range of options.”  The company’s $550 million of 7.5 percent senior unsecured
bonds due June 2015 rose 1.25 cents to 70 cents on the dollar at
9:25 a.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
Holders of that debt were offered 72 cents on the dollar if they
exchanged those securities by Sept. 28, or 67 cents if swapped
by the original Oct. 13 deadline.  Biggest Bondholder  Franklin Advisers Inc. of  San Mateo ,  California , is the
largest Dynegy bondholder, owning notes with a face value of at
least $1.13 billion, and second-largest shareholder, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Its parent, Franklin Resources
Inc., announced a 10.5 percent equity stake in the company in an
Oct. 11 regulatory filing. Icahn Capital LP is the largest
shareholder, the data show.  Matthew Walsh, a Franklin spokesman, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment. NRG Energy Inc. and Calpine Corp.
are the largest independent U.S. power producers.  Dynegy said July 10 it would restructure the company in
order to avoid violating an earnings-to-interest covenant in its
loan agreement. The company created two units, one owning eight
natural gas-fired power generation facilities and another owning
a group of six coal-fired facilities, both of which would be
“bankruptcy remote,” insulating them if affiliates become
insolvent, according to a statement.  Avenue Investments LP sued Dynegy on Sept. 21, claiming
Dynegy stole assets from holders of $3.6 billion in notes in the
restructuring.  Power Plants   The bondholders are seeking to undo the transaction,
calling it a “fraudulent conveyance” that removed the coal-
fired power plants from the reach of lenders and transferred
them to shareholders, according to the lawsuit filed in New York
State Supreme Court. Dynegy’s Sullivan said at the time that the
company doesn’t comment on pending litigation.  If the power producer doesn’t garner sufficient interest in
the distressed-debt exchange then it would risk a default since
its coal and gas units don’t have enough money to pay the
interest on the outstanding bonds,  Andy DeVries , an analyst for
independent debt research firm CreditSights Inc. in New York,
said in an Oct. 16 telephone interview.  Dynegy rose 5.6 percent to $3.61 at 12:31 p.m. New York
time. The stock, which traded above $50 in 2007, peaked for this
year at $6.64 on July 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Bravo in New York at 
 rbravo5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 