-- 
EBRD Offers Financial Help to Agrokor’s Bid for Rival Mercator

-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 
2011-10-21T12:25:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/ebrd-offers-financial-help-to-agrokor-s-bid-for-rival-mercator.html
The European Bank for Reconstruction
and Development offered to help Agrokor d.d.,  Croatia ’s largest
private company, buy a majority stake in  Mercator Poslovni
Sistem (MELR)  d.d. of Slovenia.  The bank, which is a shareholder in Agrokor, “is ready to
consider providing support to Agrokor, should their bid be
successful.” Zsuzsanna Hargitai, the London-based EBRD’s
Croatian director, said in an e-mailed statement today.  EBRD has supported cross-border transactions since the
start of its operations, including investments by western
European companies in central and eastern  Europe  and helps
facilitate investments between companies within the London-based
bank’s operational region, it said.  Four companies submitted non-binding bids to buy the
majority holding of Mercator, the biggest supermarket chain in
the Balkans, as the industry consolidates following the entry of
Delhaize Group SA into  Serbia . Three offers to a group of
Slovenian banks and other shareholders came from financial
investors, while the fourth was from a “strategic” investor,
Nova Ljubljanska Bank said on Oct. 19.  Agrokor d.d. made an offer that values the Slovenian
retailer at 832 million euros ($1.15 billion), according to two
people familiar with the matter. Agrokor offered 221 euros per
share and would have to extend its offer for the rest of the
Slovenian supermarket operator, if the deal is approved.  The Croatian company has already secured about 700 million
euros from a group of European banks, including including
Deutsche Bank AG, Societe Generale SA and UBS AG, Finance
newspaper in Ljubljana reported last month.  Mercator has an enterprise value of 1.77 billion euros,
according to Bloomberg data. An enterprise value includes the
market capitalization as well as debt, minority interests and
preferred shares, while excluding total cash and cash
equivalents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana, Slovenia, at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jmes Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  