-- 
ECB’s Paramo Says Swift Bank Recapitalization Will Be ‘Crucial’

-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-10-21T11:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/ecb-s-paramo-says-swift-bank-recapitalization-will-be-crucial-.html
European Central Bank Executive
Board member Jose Manuel Gonzalez-Paramo said recapitalizing
banks is “crucial” to solving the euro region’s debt crisis.  A lasting solution “will require the decoupling of banks’
fortunes from the funding situation of their sovereign,”
Gonzalez-Paramo said in a speech in Malaga today, according to a
text published by the ECB. “In light of recent developments,
swift recapitalizations of banks in a coordinated fashion will
prove crucial.”  European leaders, due to meet in Brussels on Oct. 23, are
under pressure to find a solution to the turmoil that has pushed
 Greece  to the brink of default and is now threatening banks
across the 17-nation euro area. The ECB has introduced a range
of non-standard measures in an attempt to ease tensions on
financial markets and ensure banks have access to liquidity,
such as unlimited lending in its refinancing operations.  “Although this policy can moderate the symptoms of the
crisis, it cannot provide the lasting solution to this crisis,”
Gonzalez-Paramo said. “A lasting solution to the sovereign debt
crisis must tackle its root causes.”  Gonzalez-Paramo said affected countries must improve their
fiscal adjustments and implement structural measures aimed at
promoting growth. The euro area will also need to develop more
effective economic governance, and governments will have to
“step up more decisively to preserve financial stability, which
is their responsibility,” he said.  “If governments respond appropriately to risks to
financial stability and banks reinforce and efficiently
restructure their balance sheets, the ECB may have to be less
concerned with non-standard measures to restore the monetary
policy transmission mechanism,” Gonzalez-Paramo said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  