-- 
Hedge Fund CEO Brownstein Pleads Guilty to Insider Trading

-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-10-21T20:12:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/hedge-fund-ceo-brownstein-pleads-guilty-to-insider-trading.html
Drew “Bo” Brownstein, the founder
and chief executive officer of Denver-based Big 5 Asset
Management, pleaded guilty to trading on inside information
about a corporate merger.  Brownstein, 35, made more than $2.5 million in illegal
profits for his hedge fund and for relatives by trading on a tip
in advance of  Apache Corp. (APA) ’s $2.7 billion acquisition of  Mariner
Energy Inc. (ME)  in April 2010, prosecutors said.  “I’ve severely disappointed my family, colleagues,
investors and friends,” Brownstein told U.S. District Judge
Robert Patterson in  Manhattan  federal court today. “I’m truly
sorry.”  The sentencing guideline is 37 to 46 months with the plea
agreement, the judge said. Brownstein, who pleaded guilty to one
count of securities fraud, will be sentenced on Dec. 20. He was
released on a $500,000 personal recognizance bond.  “You had inside information about the fact that Mariner’s
stock would probably go up because it was about to be acquired
by another company,” Patterson said to Brownstein.  The tip originated with H. Clayton Peterson of Denver, a
retired former Arthur Andersen partner who served on Mariner
Energy’s board of directors, prosecutors said. Peterson, who was
also a director of Re/Max International Inc. and Lone Pine
Resources Inc., pleaded guilty to conspiracy and  securities
fraud  in August. His son, Drew, a Denver financial adviser,
pleaded guilty to the same charges.  Passed Information  Clayton Peterson, who was appointed to Mariner’s board in
March 2006, said he passed information about the planned
transaction in April 2010 to his son. At his guilty plea, Drew
Peterson, 35, said he bought shares of Mariner stock based on
the tip and passed the information to another unidentified
person who also traded on it.  Brownstein said in court today that he purchased Mariner
securities on April 13 and April 14, 2010. On April 13, he said,
“I had several phone conversations with Drew Peterson, a
lifelong friend, who told me Mariner had agreed to be
acquired.”  Separately, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
today said it added Brownstein and Big 5 Asset Management as
defendants to its August complaint that accused H. Clayton
Peterson of tipping Drew Peterson to confidential information
about the acquisition of Mariner. The SEC said Brownstein made
about $5 million from trading Mariner securities.  Stock Rose  Apache, the largest U.S. independent oil and natural-gas
producer by market value, announced April 15, 2010, that it had
agreed to buy Mariner Energy for $2.7 billion in cash and stock
to boost production and reserves in deep waters off the  Gulf of
Mexico . Mariner Energy’s stock rose 42 percent on the news,
according to the U.S. Securities and Exchange commission, which
filed a civil suit against the Petersons. The purchase was
completed on Nov. 10.  The case is U.S. v. Peterson, 11-CR-665, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 