-- 
Hedge Fund Manager Sender Shows Art Collection, Blasts Fairfax

-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 
2011-10-21T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/hedge-fund-manager-adam-sender-shows-art-collection-blasts-fairfax-suit.html
Adam Sender was one of the first
hedge-fund managers to get serious about contemporary art when
he started buying in 1998, and now he plans to show just how
serious.  The founder and chief executive officer of Exis Capital
Management Inc., whose 1,000 works have been valued at about
$100 million, will display 70 of them publicly for the first
time next month. The exhibition will run Nov. 29 to Dec. 4,
coinciding with  Art Basel Miami Beach , the largest contemporary-
art fair in the U.S.  Titled “Home Alone,” the show will take over Sender’s
5,000-square-foot Miami house, now empty and on the market.
Among the works are pieces by Keith Haring,  Cindy Sherman  and
Chris Ofili as well as emerging talents Diana Al-Hadid and
Rashid Johnson.  “We bought a beautiful house but it wasn’t the right house
for us,” Sender, 42, said in an interview. “We had an ability
to rent it but we figured, why not throw a show for Art Basel.”  Sarah Aibel, the Sender Collection’s curator, chose
provocative and physically imposing works, suggesting that the
art has pushed out the collector.  Matthew Barney’s image of  Johnny Cash  flipping the bird
will look down from the top of a staircase. Richard Prince’s
treatment of a Gary Gross photograph showing a naked, 10-year-
old Brooke Shields will hang on the wall of a child’s bathroom.  “I am playing with the idea that it’s a house, not a
museum,” said Aibel. “It’s a domestic, personal space, just
like a private collection is a personal interpretation of art
history.”  ‘The Very Best’  Sender, who practices Ashtanga yoga, first worked with  Todd Levin , a veteran art adviser, from 1998 to 2008.  “I was trying to buy the very best work,” Sender said.
“It was not possible to afford the very best Warhols but you
could buy a masterpiece by  Richard Prince  for $100,000 or
$150,000.”  His collection is divided among his offices and homes in
 Manhattan , Sag Harbor, New York, and Miami, where he moved with
his wife, Lenore, last year.  After graduating from the  University of Michigan  with a
degree in history, Sender joined  Steve Cohen ’s SAC Capital
Advisors LP. He founded his own hedge fund in 1998.  Exis Capital’s Walrus fund returned 6.1 percent in
September and 18 percent since the beginning of 2011, according
to an investor letter.  “Our performance since 2006 has been great, with a 15
percent gain in 2008 and no down years,” Sender said.  Art Portfolio  As for the art holdings: “Some artists are doing a lot
better than before 2008 and some artists are not doing as
well,” he said. “But overall, the portfolio of art has done
really well between 2008 and right now.”  Sender owns more than 30 pieces by Sherman, whose auction
revenue has jumped 39 percent since 2008, according to art-
market research company Artprice. He owns more than 20 works by
Prince, whose auction prices have fallen 60 percent since their
2008 peak.  Sender continues to spend on art. At the Armory Show
earlier this year, Aibel bought work by Andrew Hahn, whose
humorous silk-screens cost $2,000.  “Collecting is a long-term process and it’s very different
from what I do all day, which is trading,” Sender said. “It’s
the yin and yang.”  ‘Tender Nurse’  He also sells. A room-size installation by Mike Kelley
fetched $2.7 million at auction in November 2006; Prince’s
“Tender Nurse” brought in $2.3 million.  “I spent a tremendous amount of money on art and was
feeling the comfort of taking a little bit off the table,”
Sender said. “If it’s not floating your boat anymore, you are
entitled to sell it. What we do with the proceeds is we buy more
art, and we buy younger art.”  He declined to discuss how much money he manages.  “Most of the assets in the fund are friends and family and
my own money,” he said. “We haven’t been able to raise any
significant capital since Fairfax of  Canada  sued us in 2006.”  Toronto-based  Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd. (FFH)  sued several
hedge-fund firms, including those run by Cohen,  James Chanos  and
 Daniel Loeb .  The suit alleged that the  hedge funds  acted to harm the
firm because they were betting its stock price would decline.
The company demanded $8 billion in damages. Cohen and SAC were
dismissed from the lawsuit last month. The case is pending for
the other parties.  “The damage this suit has caused is immense,” Sender
said. “A suit which is completely frivolous, and a complete
fantasy.”  “Nobody who has waded through the thousands of pages of
publicly filed evidence in this case would call Fairfax’s claims
a fantasy,” said Michael Bowe, Fairfax’s lawyer, in an e-mailed
statement.  To contact the reporter of this story:
Katya Kazakina in  New York  at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 