-- 
Meiji Yasuda to Boost Japan Bond Holdings in Second Half

-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 
2011-10-21T06:31:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/meiji-yasuda-to-boost-japan-bond-holdings-in-fiscal-second-half.html
Meiji Yasuda  Life Insurance Co.,
 Japan ’s third-largest life insurer, said it will boost yen-
denominated bond holdings in the fiscal second half, while
reducing investments in local stocks.  Domestic bond holdings will rise from 14 trillion yen ($182
billion) at the end of September, said Yasuharu Takamatsu,
deputy president and head of investments, outlining its fiscal
second-half plan. The insurer plans to increase yen-denominated
bonds by about 2 trillion yen for the entire fiscal year ending
March 2012, he said.  Meiji Yasuda is sticking to the relative safety of debt
after increasing its investment in domestic bonds by 1.36
trillion yen in the fiscal first half. The plan comes on
concerns the global economy will remain weak amid  Europe ’s
sovereign debt crisis and as Japan copes with the aftermath of
the earthquake in March.  “Yen-denominated bonds will continue to be our core
investments,” Takamatsu said at a press conference in Tokyo
today. “We will continue with our efforts to balance assets and
liabilities and lengthen our durations.”  Japan’s sovereign bonds earned 2.4 percent in the fiscal
first half ended Sept. 30, according to Bank of America Corp.’s
Merrill Lynch index. The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average slumped 11
percent.  Among other asset classes, Meiji Yasuda plans to increase
overseas stocks and bond holdings. Loans to companies will
decline in the second half, the insurer said. It also plans to
decrease holdings in alternative investments such as  hedge funds 
by redeeming funds that underperform, he said.  Meiji Yasuda has about 130 billion yen worth of sovereign
debt of European nations whose credit ratings were cut, such as
 Portugal , Ireland,  Italy ,  Greece  and  Spain . It hasn’t made any
allocation changes, the insurer said.  Following are Meiji Yasuda’s market trading range forecasts
for the fiscal second half through March 2012.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in  Tokyo  at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
Komaki Ito in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  