-- 
Emerging Market Stocks Gain, Paring Weekly Loss, on Europe Talks

-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 
2011-10-21T22:10:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/emerging-market-stocks-gain-paring-weekly-loss-korea-rallies.html
Emerging-market stocks advanced,
trimming a weekly drop, on speculation of an agreement to
contain  Europe ’s debt crisis as investors awaited the outcome of
summits starting during the weekend.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index climbed 1.4 percent to
920.07 at the close of trading, paring a decline this week to
1.6 percent. South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  added 1.8 percent as
builders and technology shares rallied, while Russia’s Micex
Index gained 2 percent. The benchmark measure in Brazil ended
the week with a gain after rising 2.3 percent today. Gauges also
advanced in  Poland  and South Africa. The Shanghai Composite
Index retreated 0.6 percent.  Euro-area leaders will meet twice next week to discuss
their response to the debt crisis, including a plan to provide
$1.3 trillion.  France  retreated in a clash with Germany over how
to expand the power of Europe’s bailout fund in the first
meeting of a six-day marathon intended to stave off a Greek
default and shield banks from the fallout.  “There appear to be some issues on which agreement is
likely,”  Julian Callow , head of euro economics at Barclays
Capital in London, said in a research note today. “The precise
form of any agreement on how to maximize the degree of support
offered” by the rescue funds remains unclear, he said.  France’s view that the fund, the European Financial
Stability Facility, should get a banking license enabling it to
borrow from the European Central Bank, “is not a definitive
point of discussion for us,” French Finance Minister  Francois Baroin  said today in Brussels. “What matters is what works.”
The French flexibility indicated progress toward easing the
threat to the global economy stemming from Greece.  Currencies Gain  South Africa ’s rand surged 1.8 percent versus the dollar,
the most among 25 emerging-economy currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. The forint followed with a 1.4 percent gain. The
ruble strengthened 1.3 percent as oil rose in  New York . The lira
gained by the same degree in  Turkey , where the central bank
boosted overnight lending rates yesterday. Brazil’s real and the
Mexican peso also appreciated against the U.S. dollar.  Emerging-market stock funds took in $665 million in the
week ended Oct. 19, snapping 11 straight weeks of outflows,
according to Citigroup Inc.  Diversified global developing-nation equity funds got $1.3
billion,  Markus Rosgen , Citigroup’s Hong Kong-based chief Asian
strategist, wrote in a report today. That helped offset
withdrawals from regional funds, including outflows of $133
million from Asia excluding  Japan , the analyst said, citing data
compiled by fund researcher EPFR Global.  The Bovespa Index posted a second weekly advance. A
commodities rally spurred by prospects for a deal to contain the
euro-zone crisis lifted Brazilian producers.  Brazil , Mexico Stocks  Vale SA climbed 1.8 percent and MMX Mineracao & Metalicos
SA leaped 3.6 percent. Oil companies Petroleo Brasileiro SA and
OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA followed crude prices
higher.  In Mexico, retailers and homebuilders advanced after the
national statistics agency said the nation’s unemployment rate
fell to 5.68 percent in September from 5.79 percent in August.
Desarrolladora Homex SAB, Mexico’s largest homebuilder, advanced
1.9 percent.  BHP Billiton Plc (BIL) , the world’s largest mining company,
jumped 4.3 percent in South Africa as metals prices advanced in
London. The FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index gained 2 percent.  The WIG20 Index leaped 3.8 percent in Warsaw and Turkey’s
XU100 gauge climbed 1.6 percent.  In Seoul, Daewoo Engineering & Construction Co. climbed 7.8
percent, leading Korean builders higher on speculation they will
gain from a potential increase in reconstruction work in Libya.  Hynix  Hynix Semiconductor Inc. (000660) , the world’s second-largest
computer-memory chipmaker, jumped 10 percent after research
company IHS iSuppli said Apple Inc. used the company’s NAND-
flash chips in the iPhone for the first time.  Vietnam’s VN Index rallied 1.8 percent on speculation
inflation may slow after prices eased in the country’s biggest
cities. Month-on-month inflation in the Vietnamese capital Hanoi
and in Ho Chi Minh City, the nation’s biggest city, slowed in
October, the government said in a statement posted late
yesterday on its website.  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index, or Sensex, slid
0.9 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries slid 9 basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, to 406, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  The Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index of eastern European,
 Middle East  and Africa credit-default swaps fell nine basis
points to 311, according to data provider CMA.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Webb in  London  at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  