-- 
ETA End to Violence Spurs Call for Proof; PM Welcomes Move

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-10-21T09:07:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/eta-end-to-violence-spurs-call-for-proof-pm-welcomes-move-1-.html
Basque terror group ETA’s move to
lay down its arms prompted a “restrained” welcome from Spanish
Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero as opposition leader
 Mariano Rajoy  called for proof that the group is disbanding.  ETA, which has killed more than 800 people in a four-decade
fight for independence from Spain, called a “definitive end to
its armed activity” in a statement posted late yesterday on the
website of Basque newspaper  Gara . Zapatero said the move was of
“transcendent importance,” accepting for the first time a
statement from ETA, which has a record of breaking cease-fires.  “Even as history obliges us to be restrained, let’s enjoy
the satisfaction of the victory of democracy, law, and reason,”
he told reporters in Madrid. His office issued a dossier
entitled “ETA is over.”  Zapatero has traditionally responded to statements from
ETA, which started its campaign of shootings and bombings when
Spain was a dictatorship in 1968, by saying they don’t go far
enough. The latest move by the group comes one month before a
general election that pits Alfredo Perez Rubalcaba, who fought
ETA as the Socialist government’s interior minister until July,
against Rajoy of the opposition  People’s Party .  ‘Important Step’  Rajoy, who polls indicate will win the election on Nov. 20,
struck a more cautious note, saying while the statement was “an
“important step,” he still needed to see proof.  “Spaniards will only be completely at ease once ETA has
been irreversibly dissolved and completely dismantled,” Rajoy,
also a former interior minister, told reporters. He said the
announcement was an “important step,” distancing himself from
members of his party who played down the announcement and
criticized the government’s handling of the issue.  The statement will have a limited impact on the outcome of
the election, according to Antonio Barroso, a London-based
analyst at Eurasia Group, which monitors political risk.  “Rajoy and Rubalcaba are going to be very careful not to
politicize the issue,” said Barroso, a former government
pollster. “Rajoy knows that reacting badly to this could hurt
him in the polls, and that’s why he’s being so prudent.”  ETA Campaign  Rajoy’s PP is set to win as many as 190 of the 350 seats in
 Spain ’s parliament in the general election, according to a poll
by  El Pais  on Oct. 16. Zapatero’s Socialist Party may see its
representation cut to 115 lawmakers, its worst-ever result, the
poll showed. The dossier issued by Zapatero’s office detailed
the Socialists’ efforts against ETA and criticizing the PP.  Spaniards care more about the 21 percent unemployment rate
than terrorism, according to a  poll  by the state-run Center for
Sociological Research in September. More than 60 percent said
unemployment was Spain’s biggest problem, compared with 0.2
percent who said it was “terrorism and ETA.” That’s the same
percentage of people who said drugs were the main concern.  “The economy is going to determine this election and on
that, the Socialist party looks set to lose,” Barroso said.  ETA, whose initials stand for Basque Homeland and Freedom,
aimed to carve an independent nation out of northern Spain and
south western  France . It announced in January a permanent
ceasefire that the Spanish government said didn’t go far enough.
Rubalcaba, interior minister at the time, said the only
statement the government wanted to see was one that declared
“the end, in an irreversible and definitive way” of ETA.  Airport Bombing  ETA’s move to renounce violence may strengthen Bildu, a
party that backs Basque independence and denies links to ETA,
which ran candidates in the May municipal election and is
expected to do the same in the national poll.  Zapatero has hardened his line against the group since the
peace talks he initiated collapsed in 2006, when ETA bombed a
car park at Madrid’s Barajas airport, killing two people. Police
have made  100  arrests of suspected ETA members since that cease-
fire was broken, and at least seven alleged leaders have been
detained in the last two years, according to the Interior
Ministry. ETA hasn’t killed anyone in almost three years,
according to the government.  An end to violence may aid the economy of the region that
borders France and includes the cities of San Sebastian and
Bilbao. The region is Spain’s richest in terms of gross  domestic
product per capita  and has the country’s lowest unemployment
rate at half the national average.  Spain, the country in continental  Europe  most affected by
domestic and international terrorism, has suffered from ETA
violence for more than a generation. ETA was formed to fight the
dictatorship of General Francisco Franco, who suppressed the
Basque people and banned teaching of their language. In 1973,
the group killed Franco’s prime minister and likely successor
Admiral Luis Carrero-Blanco in a  Madrid  car bombing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  