-- 
EU Confronts Worsening Greek Data as Crisis Marathon Opens

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-10-21T18:01:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/eu-confronts-deteriorating-greek-economy-as-six-day-crisis-marathon-starts.html
European finance ministers grappled
with an assessment that  Greece ’s economy is deteriorating as
they began a six-day battle to stave off a default and shield
banks from the fallout.  A review by European and International Monetary Fund
experts showed Greek bond writedowns of 60 percent and more
official aid would still leave the country with a debt load
bigger than its annual economic output by 2020.  Finance ministers braced for “tough” talks at a crisis-
management marathon running until Oct. 26, as pressure mounted
to stamp out debt woes that threaten to infect the global
economy. Aid of 256 billion euros ($354 billion) for Greece,
Ireland and  Portugal  have failed to stabilize markets or prevent
the turmoil spreading to France, co-anchor with  Germany  of the
European economy.  Europe’s international image is “disastrous,” Luxembourg
Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  told reporters before the
Brussels meeting. “We’re not really giving a great example of a
high standing of state governance.”  Juncker, chairing today’s talks, cancelled the normal post-
meeting press conference. Finance ministers from all 27 European
Union countries meet tomorrow. EU and euro-area leaders gather
on Oct. 23, to be capped by another euro summit on Oct. 26.  The negotiations “will be tough and the situation is
serious,” Dutch Finance Minister  Jan Kees de Jager  said. “We
really need to step up efforts, make extra reforms, extra cuts
and strict agreements on budgets.”  Stocks, Euro  European and U.S. stocks, the euro, and bonds of struggling
countries rose today on speculation that European leaders will
find a cure. The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index advanced 2.5 percent.
The euro added 0.7 percent to $1.3877.  With President  Barack Obama  stressing the “urgency” of a
fix, the search for solutions was snagged by a falling-out
between Germany and France, the tandem at the heart of the
crisis response ever since the new Greek government discovered a
wider-than-expected budget hole in October 2009.  With French bond premiums at euro-era highs, French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  is campaigning for a European Central
Bank role in boosting the firepower of the 440 billion-euro
rescue fund, a measure opposed by Germany.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  denied a Berlin-
Paris rift, saying Germany pushed back decisions originally
slated for Oct. 23 to give the government time to consult
lawmakers.  ‘Not Stuck’  “ France  and Germany are not at all stuck in their
positions,” Schaeuble said.  Seven options are on the table for leveraging the fund,
known as the  European Financial Stability Facility . Germany and
the ECB have ruled out granting it a banking license, the most
potent option.  “New ones are coming into the process because smart people
are looking for creative options,” Austrian Finance Minister
Maria Fekter said in an interview. “None of the models are
amazingly better than the others.”  One way under consideration to break the deadlock is by
keeping the EFSF going instead of replacing it with a planned
permanent fund, two people familiar with the discussions said
yesterday.  The resulting combination of the EFSF and 500 billion-euro
European Stability Mechanism would deliver 940 billion euros to
impress the markets, the people said. A consensus is emerging to
start the ESM in mid-2012, a year ahead of schedule, they added.  ‘Turn for the Worse’  The meeting’s start was overshadowed by the report by the
 European Commission , ECB and IMF that pointed to “a turn for
the worse” in Greece.  Divisions over the handling of Greece were thrown into
relief by the report, which was obtained by Bloomberg News. It
contained a footnote that the ECB, which has lobbied against
writedowns, “does not agree” with the inclusion of the bond-
loss scenarios.  Officials are considering five scenarios to update a July
agreement that foresaw 21 percent losses on Greek debt for
private bondholders, people familiar with the deliberations
said. They range from sticking with a voluntary swap to a so-
called hard restructuring that forces investors to exchange
Greek bonds for new ones at 50 percent of their value, the
people said.  Greek Needs  A deepening recession and delays in enacting budget cuts
have raised Greece’s financing needs by at least 20 billion
euros since July, when euro leaders hammered out a 159 billion-
euro package, the people said.  “Given still-delayed  market access , large scale additional
official financing requirements would remain, estimated at some
114 billion euros,” according to the auditors’ report, dated
today. “To get the debt down further would require a larger
private sector contribution” of at least 60 percent to reduce
debt below 110 percent of gross domestic product by 2020.  The government in  Athens  forecasts the debt load next year
at about 172 percent of GDP.  “The situation in Europe is very difficult,” Finnish
Finance Minister Jutta Urpilainen said. “Our meeting tonight
will be also difficult.”  The ministers signed off on on the payout of its 5.8
billion-euro share of an 8 billion-euro loan to Greece. It’s the
sixth installment of a 110 billion-euro package awarded in May
2010.  Greek lawmakers clinched that payment by passing fresh
austerity measures yesterday, as hooded protesters threw rocks
and battled riot police outside the parliament in Athens.  The skepticism outside Europe of a soft landing for Greece
was captured by Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega .
Speaking in Campinas,  Brazil , today, Mantega said “the numbers
still won’t add up. A restructuring of Greek debt is inevitable.
The debt is very big to be sustainable.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net 
Stephanie Bodoni in Brussels at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  