-- 
EU Probes Arcelor Mittal, Vimetco Romanian Units on Energy

-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 
2011-10-21T15:40:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/eu-probes-arcelor-mittal-vimetco-romanian-units-on-energy-price.html
European Union competition
regulators are investigating the Romanian units of Arcelor
Mittal and  Vimetco NV (VICO)  for allegedly buying electricity at below
market prices from the country’s hydropower operator,
Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said.  The European Commission is looking “into potential aid”
given to steel producer Arcelor Mittal Galati SA and aluminum
smelter  Alro SA (ALR)  through lower electricity tariffs from state-
owned company Hidroelectrica SA, Almunia said in a speech in
Bucharest today.  “It would not be the first case,” Almunia said. “The
problem is that you cannot offer lower prices to some companies
without an objective justification and a kind of advantage for
some companies without adequate and clear justification in
accordance with our rules.”  The EU is urging Romania, its newest member together with
Bulgaria, to liberalize electricity and  gas prices  and overhaul
its unprofitable state-owned energy companies as pledged under a
precautionary agreement secured by the country in March, which
includes also the  International Monetary Fund .  Hidroelectrica said the “contracts are not a state aid
because the energy delivered to Arcelor Mittal and Alro was
priced higher than the production costs, assuring the operator’s
profit,” according to an e-mailed statement today. “We sent
all the requested documents to the Commission in April and we
haven’t received any additional requests since then.”  Gas Prices  Romanian prices of natural gas for industrial consumers
such as chemical and steel plants have increased twice this
year, 10 percent in July and 8 percent in October. The
government approved in June a measure to keep natural gas prices
for households unchanged from July until March next year.  “We are right now looking into other cases in other member
states and given the existence of these long-term contracts that
apparently deserve an investigation from our side, we will work
on it,” Almunia also said.  The EU in 2009 prohibited electricity price subsidies given
to  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  by  Italy  and ordered the company to repay some of
Italian state aid, saying that special electricity prices
granted to the company for aluminum smelters in Sardinia and
Veneto from 2006 to 2010 “only contribute to reducing Alcoa’s
operating costs and have no other justification.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  