-- 
EU Plan for Spot CO2 Regulation Will Entice Trade, Barclays Says

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r   a n d   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-10-21T08:47:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/eu-plan-for-spot-co2-regulation-will-entice-trade-barclays-says.html
The European Union’s plan for
classifying spot carbon-dioxide contracts as financial
instruments will probably encourage trading after thefts and
fraud turned traders away, said  Barclays Plc. (BARC)   “It certainly gives us comfort the system isn’t going to
face the same kind of problems it suffered in the past,” said
Louis Redshaw, head of carbon, coal, dry freight and iron ore
for  Barclays Capital  in London. While some carbon traders are
not enthusiastic about the plan, “industry didn’t come up with
anything better,” Redshaw said yesterday by telephone.  The European Commission proposed yesterday to extend its
Markets in Financial Instruments Directive, or Mifid, to cover
spot carbon deals. The EU wants to enhance supervision of the
market after thieves in January illegally transferred
allowances, known as EUAs, valued at about 20 million euros
($27.5 million) at today’s prices.  “The proposal for spot trading is an important step
towards re-establishing the commission’s authority over the
carbon market and enticing investors back into the space,”
Redshaw said.  The International  Emissions Trading  Association said
yesterday the EU’s proposal was “not industry’s preferred
choice.” Extending Mifid to spot emissions trading
“automatically triggers burdensome requirements that are not
relevant to the risks in this market,” IETA President  Henry Derwent  said in an e-mailed statement.  EU carbon permits have dropped 28 percent this year because
the market is oversupplied. The higher premium of December 2013
carbon permits indicates sellers are asking for extra value
probably because of regulatory uncertainty after 2012, Redshaw
said. Commodities that have higher prices as maturities lengthen
are in what’s known as contango.  Super Contango  Carbon permits for December 2013 are 73 euro cents a ton
more than those for December 2012. That’s 55 percent more than
the 47-cent contango of December 2012 over 2011.  “The super contango between 2012 and 2013 may reflect
reduction in confidence has not just been in the  spot market  but
also in the European Commission’s ability to sustain a carbon
market” beyond 2012, Redshaw said.  While carbon futures are already subject to Mifid and the
Market Abuse Directive, contracts for spot delivery, accounting
for about 10 percent of trading, typically aren’t seen as
financial instruments and aren’t bound by the same laws.
Criminals used this regulatory gap to transfer without
authorization about 2 million allowances from companies
including Prague-based CEZ AS.  Providing Certainty  “By treating emission allowances as other financial
assets, the proposal extends financial-market protection to the
carbon market,” Climate Commissioner Connie Hedegaard said
yesterday. “It will provide further certainty for carbon market
participants as the market grows and matures.”  The proposed revision of Mifid and MAD, including the
provision to cover spot carbon allowances, requires approval
from governments and the European Parliament to become binding.  The draft Mifid regulation offers exemptions from
authorization and compliance duties for individual emitters
buying or selling allowances on their own account, as well as
for entities such as trade associations which provide investment
services in carbon permits, as long as this activity is
ancillary and they are not part of a financial group, according
to the commission, the EU regulatory arm in Brussels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in  London  at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  