-- 
EU, Russia Agree on WTO Terms, Leaving Membership by Year-End Possible

-- B y   A l e n a   C h e c h e l   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 
2011-10-21T17:18:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/eu-russia-agree-on-wto-terms-leaving-membership-by-year-end-possible.html
The European Union backed  Russia ’s
bid to join the  World Trade Organization , saying 2011 entry for
the world’s largest energy producer remains a possibility.  The bloc said it had reached an agreement over rules
governing the  auto industry  after Russia in 2005 began offering
preferential  import duties  to foreign carmakers that agreed to
assemble vehicles in the country and use more local parts.  “We have struck a deal on the final outstanding bilateral
issues, leaving the way open for Russia to join the WTO by the
end of this year,” EU Trade Commissioner Karel De Gucht said
today in an e-mailed statement. “This understanding will help
to protect EU jobs in the car and car components’ industry.”  Russia, the largest economy outside the global trade
arbiter, has sought entry since 1993, exceeding  China ’s 15-year
wait for membership. Georgia, a WTO member with which Russia
fought a five-day war in 2008, must now resolve bilateral
objections to Russia’s accession.  “The last economic obstacles to Russia’s WTO accession
have been removed,”  Yaroslav Lissovolik , head of strategy at
Deutsche Bank AG in Moscow, said today by telephone. “Russia
has never been so close to entering the WTO.”  U.S., Georgia  The Obama administration said last year it had resolved
most issues necessary for Russia to enter the WTO. U.S. Vice
President Joseph Biden said during a trip to Moscow in March
that the U.S. “strongly supports” its bid.  For American companies to qualify for lower tariffs and
other measures Russia adopts as a condition to join the Geneva-
based WTO, Congress must repeal a Cold War-era law limiting
trade and grant the nation Permanent Normal Trade Relations.  Russia is in the “final stretch” and may complete the
accession process in December, Deputy Economy Minister Andrei Slepnyov said this month. It has reached a “general” agreement
on lowering meat import quotas with “key players,” he added.  The latest round of talks between Russia and  Georgia  failed
to resolve their differences, Georgia’s Deputy Foreign Minister
Sergi Kapanadze said Oct. 20. The Black Sea nation has withheld
approval because of disputes over control of customs checkpoints
in the breakaway regions of  South Ossetia  and Abkhazia.  The Swiss-mediated negotiations, held in Geneva, are slated
to resume early next week, he said.  ‘Hiding Behind’ Georgia  The U.S. and  Europe  shouldn’t “hide behind” Georgia in
delaying Russia’s WTO entry, Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  said
Oct. 6. Negotiations may be finished by year-end and outstanding
objections are “purely political,” he said in an Oct. 11
interview to Chinese media.  “Everyone, including our partners in the WTO accession
process, should understand that this isn’t just in Russia’s
interests,” President  Dmitry Medvedev  told supporters this
week. “It’s in the interests of various businesses, foreign
business, and generally in the interest of properly regulated
international trade.”  The EU’s backing means Russia may now be able to able to
conclude talks with Georgia in time to join the WTO at a meeting
of the body’s General Council in December, according to Deutsche
Bank’s Lissovolik.  “The uncertainty with Georgia remains, but now we can hope
that common sense will triumph,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alena Chechel in Moscow at 
 achechel@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  