-- 
EU Rules May Force Utilities to Raise More Capital, Shearman Says

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-10-21T15:24:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/eu-regulation-may-require-energy-utility-capital-shearman-says.html
The European Union’s plan for
regulating energy and commodity markets may require power
utilities and commodity traders to raise fresh capital, said a
lawyer from Shearman & Sterling LLP.  The EU’s plan to expand its Markets in Financial
Instruments Directive, or Mifid, rules will seek to regulate
companies not subject to financial regulation such as energy
utilities and commodity businesses, said Thomas Donegan, a
senior associate in  London  at Shearman & Sterling, which advises
financial institutions and utilities on regulation. Those
companies may currently have regulatory exemptions, he said.  “There’s going to be a broader range of firms subject to
financial regulation,” which will mean they may need to set
aside capital when they take positions in energy and commodity
markets, he said. “If you’ve got a big trading book, you’ll
have a larger capital requirement,” Donegan said.  The EU yesterday proposed new regulations to reduce market
volatility, increase regulatory oversight and promote
competition. Specific measures include requiring trading venues
to either cap the number of commodity derivative contracts that
traders can enter into, or make “alternative arrangements”
with the same effect.  After losing exemptions, some companies may need to set
aside capital that would otherwise be spent on projects or raise
cash by issuing shares or subordinated debt, Donegan said.  ‘Vague Test’  Companies may still win exemption if they show the trading
is “ancillary” to their core business, Donegan said. That may
be difficult to show. “It’s a rather vague test at this
stage,” he said. “Most of the exemptions for energy companies
and commodities traders are being tightened up.”  EU energy associations urged the bloc’s executive and
national governments to exempt the industry from financial rules
proposed yesterday, saying they’ll lead to over-regulation that
may curb investment.  The proposals, which center around mandatory clearing for
standardized over-the-counter contracts, could drive away market
participants, the European Federation of Energy Traders, the
electricity industry group Eurelectric and the gas sector
association Eurogas said.  EON Energy Trading SE, a unit of  Germany ’s biggest utility,
said questions remain over the definition of some key terms in
the proposed directive.  “There are some questions that remain to be clarified
regarding the definitions of financial instruments and ancillary
services,” the Dusseldorf-based company said today by e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  