-- 
Euro Leaders Begin Six-Day Marathon to Reach Agreement on Debt-Crisis Plan

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-10-21T13:24:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/euro-leaders-begin-six-day-marathon-to-reach-agreement-on-debt-crisis-plan.html
European leaders braced for a six-
day battle over how to save  Greece  from default, shield banks
from the fallout, and build more powerful defenses against the
debt crisis rocking the 17-nation euro economy.  With President  Barack Obama  stressing the “urgency” of a
fix, divisions between Germany and France festered as finance
ministers arrived in Brussels for the start of the anti-crisis
marathon. As a first step, they are set to approve releasing the
next aid payment for Greece.  Europe’s international image is “disastrous,” Luxembourg
Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  told reporters before the
meeting began. “We’re not really giving a great example of a
high standing of state governance.”  Aid packages of 256 billion euros ($354 billion) for
Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  have failed to stabilize markets or
prevent the turmoil spreading as far as  France , co-anchor with
Germany of the European economy.  Euro finance ministers meet today, followed by ministers
from all 27 European Union countries tomorrow. EU and euro-area
leaders gather on Oct. 23, to be capped by another euro summit
on Oct. 26. Juncker, the chairman of today's meeting, doesn't 
plan a press conference afterward.  The talks “will be tough and the situation is serious,”
Dutch Finance Minister  Jan Kees de Jager  said. “We really need
to step up efforts, make extra reforms, extra cuts and strict
agreements on budgets.”  French-German Split  A falling-out between Germany and France has snagged the
 crisis management . French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  is pushing
for the use of a European Central Bank role in boosting the
firepower of the 440 billion-euro rescue fund, a measure opposed
by  Germany .  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  denied a Berlin-
Paris rift, saying Germany called for the second summit to give
the government time to consult lawmakers.  “France and Germany are not at all stuck in their
positions,” Schaeuble said.  Seven options are on the table for leveraging the fund,
known as the  European Financial Stability Facility . Germany and
the ECB have ruled out granting it a banking license, the most
potent option.  “New ones are coming into the process because smart people
are looking for creative options,” Austrian Finance Minister
Maria Fekter said in an interview. “None of the models are
amazingly better than the others.”  Combining Funds  One way under consideration to break the deadlock is by
keeping the EFSF going instead of replacing it with a planned
permanent fund, two people familiar with the discussions said
yesterday.  The resulting combination of the EFSF and 500 billion-euro
European Stability Mechanism would deliver 940 billion euros to
impress the markets, the people said. A consensus is emerging to
start the ESM in mid-2012, a year ahead of schedule, they added.  Juncker said today’s meeting will sign off on the payout of
an 8 billion-euro loan to Greece, the sixth installment of a 110
billion-euro package awarded in May 2010.  Greek lawmakers clinched that payment by passing fresh
austerity measures yesterday, as hooded protesters threw rocks
and battled riot police outside the parliament in  Athens .  Debt Swap  Officials are considering five scenarios to update a July
agreement that foresaw 21 percent losses on Greek debt for
private bondholders, people familiar with the deliberations
said. They range from sticking with a voluntary swap to a so-
called hard restructuring that forces investors to exchange
Greek bonds for new ones at 50 percent of their value, the
people said.  A deepening recession and delays in enacting budget cuts
have raised Greece’s financing needs by at least 20 billion
euros since July, when euro leaders hammered out a 159 billion-
euro package, the people said.  “The situation in  Europe  is very difficult,” Finnish
Finance Minister Jutta Urpilainen said. “Our meeting tonight
will be also difficult.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net 
Stephanie Bodoni in Brussels at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  