-- 
Dollar Drops to Post WWII Low Against Yen

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-10-21T21:14:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/euro-rises-against-dollar-on-optimism-before-soveriegn-debt-crisis-summits.html
The dollar dropped to a post-World
War II low against the yen and fell versus most major currencies
on speculation Europe is moving closer to resolving its debt
crisis and the  Federal Reserve  may seek further monetary easing.  The euro advanced for a fourth day against the dollar, in
the longest stretch of gains since July, before two European
summits over the next five days. South Africa’s rand and
Australia’s dollar rallied as stocks and commodities increased,
boosting demand for higher-yielding assets. The dollar remained
lower versus the yen as Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  said new
purchases of securities may be appropriate.  “Clearly the dollar is weaker against the euro on
speculation that there is going to be a happy ending to the debt
crisis,” said  Greg Salvaggio , senior vice president of capital
markets at the currency trader Tempus Consulting Inc. in
 Washington . “There’s a risk-on feeling in the market.”  The yen appreciated 0.7 percent to 76.29 versus the dollar
at 5 p.m. in New York after touching a record high 75.82. The
euro rose 0.8 percent to $1.3896, extending its weekly gain to
0.1 percent. The euro rose 0.1 percent to 105.97 yen.  The dollar dropped before meetings in Europe this weekend
as bets that the U.S. currency would rally dropped from the
highest level in more than a year.  “There’s broad-based dollar selling,” said Robert Sinche,
global head of currency strategy at Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc in Stamford,  Connecticut . “It could just be a market that’s
long of dollars and short of risk and other currencies. It’s
Friday, and people are uncomfortable going into the weekend with
those positions.”  Dollar Bets  Hedge funds  and other large speculators pared their net
long dollar positions to 126,628 in the week ended Oct. 18 after
reaching 132,835 in the prior week, the most since June 2010,
according to Commodity Futures Trading Commission data released
today. The figures measure futures contracts on dollar bets
against the euro, yen, Australian, Canadian and New Zealand
dollars, pound, Swiss franc and Mexican peso.  Canada’s dollar rose for a second straight day, advancing
0.9 percent to C$1.0066 versus the greenback as the nation’s
annual inflation rate rose more than forecast last month.  The  consumer price index  increased 3.2 percent in September
from a year earlier,  Statistics Canada  said. The median forecast
of economists was for another 3.1 percent rise.  South Africa ’s rand was the best performer among the 16
most-traded currencies tracked by Bloomberg, rising 1.8 percent
to 8.0408 versus the dollar as stocks and commodities gained.
Australia’s currency appreciated 1.4 percent to $1.0376.  Rally in Stocks  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased 1.9 percent, and
the Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials added
1.1 percent.  Yellen said in a Denver speech that a third round of large-
scale securities purchases might be warranted if necessary to
boost a  U.S. economy  challenged by unemployment and financial
turmoil, boosting speculation the central bank will start a
third round of asset buying aimed at reviving U.S. growth. The
comments followed Fed Governor Daniel Tarullo’s call yesterday
for a resumption of large-scale purchases of mortgage bonds.  While almost three years of near-zero  interest rates  from
the Fed and $2.35 trillion of asset purchases helped pull the
U.S. economy out of a recession, concern is rising that gross
domestic product may soon start to shrink.  Germany ’s Stance  The euro rose against the dollar today as German officials
said there are several possible ways of involving the
 International Monetary Fund  to boost the firepower of the
European Financial Stability Facility, the region’s rescue fund,
to fight the euro-region debt crisis.  Germany favors using an insurance model to leverage EFSF
funds or deepening cooperation with the IMF to expand EFSF
resources, a German government official said in Berlin today,
speaking on condition of anonymity.  France  retreated in a clash with Germany over how to expand
the power of  Europe ’s bailout fund. France’s view that the fund
should get a banking license enabling it to borrow from the
 European Central Bank , “is not a definitive point of discussion
for us,” French Finance Minister  Francois Baroin  told
reporters.  Euro finance ministers meet today, followed by ministers
from all 27 European Union countries tomorrow. EU and euro-area
leaders gather on Oct. 23, to be capped by another euro summit
Oct. 26.  The yen’s surge today came after it set a record on Aug.
19, which followed a 4.51 trillion-yen ($59 billion)
intervention earlier in the month by  Japan . The nation has
intervened in the foreign-exchange markets three times in the
past 13 months to weaken the yen. The currency is up 6.5 percent
against the dollar in 2011.  ‘Any Sneeze’  “People are just so flat that any sneeze like one macro
fund coming in and putting a position on can move the market,”
said Andrew Cox, a strategist at Citigroup Inc. in  New York .
“Currencies were hitting stop losses to the topside with the
risk relief including the yen. It’s not a yen-specific move.”  Japan’s government will add 2 trillion yen to the 8
trillion yen in foreign-exchange reserves being shifted to the
state-run Japan Bank for International Cooperation to aid
exporters and spur acquisitions overseas, a document shows.  A further 2 trillion yen will be allocated to encourage
investment in domestic plants and to hire workers, according to
another document obtained from two government officials who
declined to be identified because the plan isn’t public.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  