-- 
Stocks in Europe Post Longest Streak of Weekly Gains This Year as EU Meets

-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 
2011-10-21T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/european-stocks-post-longest-streak-of-weekly-gains-in-2011.html
European stocks advanced for a
fourth week, for the longest rising streak since December, as
investors speculated European leaders meeting in Brussels next
week will nudge forward a solution to the region’s debt crisis.  SGL Carbon SE (SGL)  soared the most since 2008 after a report
that Bayerische Motoren Werke AG plans to buy a stake in it.
 Lundin Petroleum AB (LUPE)  surged 14 percent after Statoil ASA doubled
its estimate of an oil discovery in the North Sea.  G4S Plc (GFS) 
slumped 14 percent after agreeing to acquire ISS A/S, a move
resisted by at least one large shareholder.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index advanced 0.2 percent to 238.93
this week, with energy, personal goods and retail industries
gaining the most. The gauge trimmed its decline from this year’s
high on Feb. 17 to 18 percent. The Stoxx 600 is trading at about
10 times the estimated earnings of its constituent companies,
near the lowest valuation since March 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “We have gone through periods of hope and depression this
week regarding a solution for the euro area,” said John Plassard, director at Louis Capital Markets in Geneva.
“Investors expect a lot from this meeting. The crucial point of
the meeting will be to see if there is a perfect agreement
between  Germany  and France.”  Summit Expectations  Euro-area leaders will meet on Oct. 23 and Oct. 26 to
discuss their response to the debt crisis, including a plan to
deploy $1.3 trillion by combining the European Union’s temporary
and planned permanent rescue funds as of mid-2012, two people
familiar with the discussions said. A hurdle to the talks is a
disagreement between Germany and France over the  European
Central Bank ’s role.  French President Nicolas Sarkozy flew to Frankfurt on Oct.
19 to meet German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , ECB President Jean- Claude Trichet and International Monetary Fund Managing Director
 Christine Lagarde . The meeting failed to end the deadlock.  Germany sought to lower expectations from the summit.
Steffen Seibert, Merkel’s chief spokesman, said on Oct. 17 that
the chancellor had made it clear that European leaders won’t
fulfill “dreams” of a quick end to the debt crisis at the
Brussels meeting.  “The fact that they organized a second meeting shows
Merkel and Sarkozy haven’t agreed on the measures to be
announced,” Plassard said. “That is not very reassuring for
the markets. They at least want to see the first step toward a
long-term solution this weekend.”  The Next Step  Bank of America Corp. said a majority of 136 investors it
surveyed expected the summit to take the next step toward ending
the crisis, but not provide a complete solution. Two out of five
respondents expected a sensible plan to emerge.  National benchmark indexes rose in nine of the 18 western
European markets. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 added 0.4 percent.
Germany’s DAX Index gained less than 0.1 percent and  France ’s
CAC 40 dropped 1.5 percent.  In the U.S., Federal Reserve Governor  Daniel Tarullo  became
the first policy maker to publicly call for the resumption of
purchases of mortgage securities to boost economic growth and
job creation.  The Fed’s Beige Book survey showed companies reported more
doubt about the recovery even as the economy maintained its
expansion last month. Separately, a report on Oct. 17 showed
that manufacturing in the  New York  area contracted in October
more than economists had forecast. The Empire State Index
covering New York, northern  New Jersey  and southern  Connecticut 
gave a reading of minus 8.5, a larger drop than the average
estimate of minus 4 in a Bloomberg News survey.  Chinese Growth  Data from  China  showed that the world’s fastest growing
major economy expanded at an annual pace of 9.1 percent in the
third quarter, the slowest since 2009.  SGL Carbon soared 19 percent, the biggest weekly gain since
November 2008. BMW plans to buy a stake in the German maker of
carbon and graphite materials, Spiegel said, citing an
unidentified manager at the carmaker.  Lundin jumped 14 percent after Statoil doubled its estimate
for a  North Sea  discovery. The Aldous Major South find may hold
900 million to 1.5 billion barrels of recoverable oil
equivalent, twice as much as Statoil’s previous estimate.
Combined with Lundin’s neighboring Avaldsnes, the field may hold
as much as 3.3 billion barrels of recoverable resources.  G4S, Aixtron  G4S slumped 14 percent after announcing a plan to acquire
Danish cleaning-services company ISS for $8.2 billion. Parvus
Asset Management, among its largest investors, resists the deal
saying it is too risky. Some of the other 20 top shareholders in
the world’s largest security services company may also vote
against the move at a Nov. 2 shareholders’ meeting, Parvus fund
manager Edoardo Mercadante, said.  Aixtron SE, a supplier to the semiconductor industry,
plunged 16 percent after CA Cheuvreux analyst Klaus Ringel wrote
in a report that the company’s third-quarter earnings will
probably be “disastrous.” The stock was cut to “hold” from
“buy” at Kaufman Bros.  Software AG (SOW)  surged 7.5 percent after Germany’s second-
largest maker of  business software  confirmed its full-year sales
target after third-quarter earnings rose. Operating profit
advanced to approximately 71 million euros to 73 million euros
from 69.1 million euros a year ago.  Sonova, Alcatel-Lucent  Sonova Holding AG (SOON) , the Swiss maker of hearing health-care
products, rallied 13 percent after saying sales of hearing aids
increased 7 percent in the first half excluding acquisitions.  Alcatel-Lucent SA sank 11 percent after Oddo Securities and
Jefferies Group Inc. lowered their recommendations for the
French phone-equipment maker to “neutral” and
“underperform,” respectively.  Safran SA (SAF) , which makes  jet engines  with General Electric
Co. for Airbus SAS and Boeing Co., fell 13 percent. The company
said demand for spare parts in the first nine months came in at
10.1 percent, the bottom end of its projected range of 10
percent to 15 percent for the year.  Home Retail Group Plc (HOME)  fell 18 percent. The owner of U.K.
Homebase outlets said first-half profit dropped 70 percent after
sales at stores open at least a year decreased 9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  