-- 
Europe Launches Two Galileo Satellites to Cut Reliance on GPS

-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 
2011-10-21T12:49:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/europe-launches-two-galileo-satellites-to-cut-reliance-on-gps.html
Europe’s  Galileo  global navigation
system launched its first two satellites today as part of a
project that may generate 90 billion euros ($124 billion) in
economic and social benefits over two decades.  The satellites rode a Russian rocket  launched  from a space
port in  Kourou, French Guiana , to an altitude of 23,000
kilometers (14,300 miles), the European Commission said in a
 statement . While 4.5 billion euros have been  allocated  to
develop and build the system for the period ending in 2013,
another 7 billion euros will be needed for the budget cycle
through 2020 to finish building the system and keep it
operating, said Ingrid Godkin, an official at the commission.  Satellite technology is used for applications including in-
car navigation, time-stamping transactions at banks and powering
telecommunications. Unlike the Global Positioning System,
developed by the U.S. military, Galileo is designed for civil
purposes and aims to end  Europe ’s reliance on GPS. Galileo will
also have a commercial, fee-based service for high-precision,
guaranteed signals for use in areas including mining, surveying
and mapping, which GPS doesn’t offer.  “Europe is now a step closer to having its own smart
satellite navigation system, which will bring many benefits to
our economies and our daily lives,” the commission said.  The system established may generate 90 billion euros in
additional revenue and in public and social benefits over a
period of 20 years, the commission said.  ‘Guaranteed System’  Galileo also will provide “a guaranteed system that won’t
be vulnerable to being shut off for political or military
reasons,” Godkin said.  The launch, originally scheduled for Oct. 20, was delayed
by 24 hours for technical reasons, the commission said. The
satellites are the program’s first to be operational and will
test the navigation system in space and on the ground, said Pal
Hvistendahl, a spokesman at the  European Space Agency , which
shared development costs with the commission. The deployment
phase has been funded entirely by the commission, the executive
arm of the 27-nation European Union.  Successive launches are scheduled to complete the
constellation of 30 satellites by 2019. The additional number of
satellites Galileo provides, combined with GPS, will also
improve the availability of signals in cities and offer better
coverage at high latitudes, particularly in northern Europe,
according to Godkin.  Free of Charge  Germany ’s OHB System AG will build the first 14 satellites,
and  France ’s Arianespace made the launchers. The system will
start operating in 2014 and will be available free of charge.  “We are following it closely,” said Kristina Nilsson, a
spokeswoman for  TomTom NV (TOM2) , Europe’s biggest maker of portable
navigation devices. “GPS is accurate, but we always track all
new technical developments.”  The commission will complete a proposal for the 7 billion
euros in funding by the end of the year to be presented to EU
governments for approval, Godkin said.  Governments probably will scrutinize the proposed budget
more carefully than when Galileo was first conceived over a
decade ago because of concern over the economy, said Tomas Valasek, director of foreign policy and defense at the Centre
for European Reform in  London .  The project probably won’t be shut down, and enough funding
will be approved to keep staff employed and provide a minimal
return for the manufacturers, he said.  Galileo Funding  “They’ve already poured so much money into it,” Valasek
said. “Galileo has already benefited from previously unplanned
allocations from the European Commission budget.”  It may be too early to tell how widely Galileo’s signals
will be made available to the general public.  “We appreciate the Galileo efforts and are looking forward
to seeing the first results,”  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  spokesman  Doug Dawson 
said by e-mail. “We will include Galileo satellites into our
system if it will enhance our systems and the user experience.”  Nokia is working with Russia’s version of GPS,  Glonass ,
which was revived last year after funding collapsed along with
communism in 1991.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  