-- 
Euro-Area Finance Chiefs Approve Sixth Aid Payment to Greece

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 
2011-10-21T19:25:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/euro-area-finance-ministers-clear-sixth-bond-payment-assistance-to-greece.html
Euro-area finance ministers signed
off on a 5.8 billion-euro ($8.1 billion) loan to  Greece  under
last year’s bailout as European leaders reopened talks on a new
aid package that will involve writedowns on Greek debt.  The green light for the sixth disbursement of funds under
the fully taxpayer-funded package of 110 billion euros shifted
the spotlight to the role of bondholders in a bigger second
rescue for Greece.  The euro area wants investors to contribute more than the
21 percent writedown on debt they agreed to in July, when
leaders approved the new 159 billion-euro package. That was to
include 50 billion euros from bondholders.  “We have agreed to endorse the disbursement of the next
tranche of financial assistance to Greece in the context of the
current economic adjustment program,” the 17 euro-area finance
ministers said in a joint statement today in Brussels. “To
ensure debt sustainability, we will conclude a second economic
adjustment program for Greece, with an appropriate combination
of additional new official financing and private-sector
involvement.”  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  won a parliamentary
vote for new pension and wage cuts and tax increases yesterday
in Athens to close a budget gap and secure the loan. He got
backing for the bill as European leaders, already due to meet on
Oct. 23, announced a second summit for Oct. 26 to give them more
time to work on a strategy to combat the Greece-triggered debt
crisis that continues to roil global markets.  ‘Positive Step’  Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said the euro
area’s approval of the next disbursement of funds was a
“positive step” that justified budget cuts needed for the
money and would lead to better aid terms in a new financing
package.  “The sacrifices of the Greek people and the implementation
of tough, but nationally imperative, rescue measures are the
basis not only of the sixth tranche but also of the new program
that secures the long-term sustainability of Greek public
debt,” Venizelos said in an e-mailed statement.  Greece has said it has the cash to operate until mid-
November after a scheduled review of the country’s progress in
meeting fiscal targets was suspended for about two weeks last
month.  IMF Loan  The  International Monetary Fund , which is funding almost a
third of last year’s package for Greece, is expected to discuss
approval of its next loan of 2.2 billion euros to the country
after euro-area leaders rework the July 21 agreement. IMF
Managing Director  Christine Lagarde , a former French finance
minister, took part in today’s meeting in Brussels.  The next euro-area aid disbursement “is expected to take
place in the first half of November, pending the approval by the
board of the International Monetary Fund,” the finance chiefs
said in their statement.  The calls for bigger bondholder losses in the planned
second aid package come amid indications that Greece’s debt
isn’t sustainable as the economy shrinks faster than forecast.  Inspectors from the European Commission,  European Central
Bank  and IMF said in a report that the financial situation in
Greece “has taken a turn for the worse” since their last
review in June. “Large, long-term, and sufficiently generous
official support will be necessary for Greece to remain current
on its debt service payments and to facilitate a declining debt
trajectory.”  Market Access  Greece’s debt load stood at 144.9 percent of gross domestic
product at the end of 2010. Giving scenarios using discount
bonds with an assumed yield of 6 percent and no collateral,
Greek debt can be brought to just above 120 percent of gross
domestic product by the end of 2020 if 50 percent discounts are
applied, the inspectors said.  “Given still-delayed  market access , large scale additional
official financing requirements would remain, estimated at some
114 billion euros,” the inspectors said. “To get the debt down
further would require a larger private-sector contribution” of
at least 60 percent to reduce debt below 110 percent of GDP by
2020.  The euro-area finance ministers drew attention to these
issues in their statement, saying “the macroeconomic situation
has deteriorated” and “economic challenges remain large.”  Papandreou has said that securing approval for the
austerity bill would give him a negotiating edge this weekend in
talks on the second financing package for Greece. He expelled
one lawmaker for voting against one of the articles in the
legislation, whittling down his four-seat majority.  The initial bailout of Greece was made up of loans from
euro-area governments and the IMF. The euro area’s share of the
new package is set to come from the European Financial Stability
Facility, which is already contributing to international rescues
of Ireland and  Portugal .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Petrakis in  Athens  at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  