-- 
Ex-British Chief Brown Says Wall Street Protests Seek Fairness

-- B y   D a v i d   J .   L y n c h
-- 
2011-10-21T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/ex-british-chief-brown-says-wall-street-protests-seek-fairness.html
Anti-Wall Street protests moving
into their sixth week are driven by concerns over “what’s fair
and what’s responsible,” said former British Prime Minister
 Gordon Brown .  “It’s not about the extremes in this debate,” Brown said
in an interview airing this weekend on Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital with  Al Hunt .” Brown rejected both
supporters of the status quo and rebels against capitalism in
general.  “There are voices in the middle who say, ‘Look, we can
build a better financial system that is more sustainable, that
is based on a better and proportionate sense of what’s just and
fair and where people don’t take reckless risks or, if they do,
they’re penalized for doing so,’” Brown said.  The Occupy Wall Street demonstrations, which began in New
York on Sept. 17 before spreading to cities in the U.S. and
other countries, have ignited a debate about the balance between
profits and ethics, Brown said.  “Markets do need morals,” he said. “Markets have got to
be founded on a sense of fairness and responsibility.”  On the  occupywallstreet.org  website, the  New York 
protesters say: “We are the 99 percent that will no longer
tolerate the greed and corruption of the 1 percent.”  The reference is to the steadily widening gap between rich
and poor. Between 1993 and 2008, the top 1 percent of American
families captured 52 percent of total income gains, according to
a 2010 analysis of Internal Revenue Service tax data by
economist Emmanuel Saez of the  University of California ,
Berkeley.  Executive Compensation   Trends in executive compensation suggest the financial
system is “out of kilter,” Brown said.  “We’ve gone from a situation where the remuneration for
the chief executives against the average employee in the biggest
companies was something like 150 to 1 in the 1960s, ‘70s and
’80s. It then went up to 550 and 1,” he said.  Brown also warned against a premature embrace of austerity
measures like those that brought the U.K. economy to a near
stall. The U.K., which embarked upon an aggressive deficit-
fighting campaign last year under a new government, expanded at
an annual rate of 0.6 percent in the second quarter and will
post a 0.5 percent mark in the third quarter, according to the
median forecast of 12 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “Deficit reduction is necessary, but if it imperils
growth, then you’ve got to think very carefully about what
you’re doing,” Brown said.  Infrastructure Bank  He backed calls for a U.S. infrastructure bank to fund an
overhaul of the nation’s roads, bridges, airports and ports.  Brown also said the U.S. should reorient its economy toward
a greater reliance upon exports. The Obama administration wants
to double U.S. exports within five years.  “Growth is not going to come quickly or easily from
 consumer spending  or from public investment, but it can come
from securing big export markets, using American technology
abroad,” Brown said.  The former Labor Party leader declined to take sides in the
U.S. presidential campaign, while expressing “huge respect”
for President  Barack Obama  and saying he isn’t acquainted with
former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney , a Republican front-
runner.  Brown balked at Romney’s call to get tough with  China  over
its policy of artificially depressing the value of its currency.  “The best strategy in dealing with China is to ask them to
increase their consumer demand,” Brown said. “That’s the
direct way that they can import more from America and America
can get some benefit from the increased living standards and
increased consumption patterns of Chinese workers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lynch at 
 dlynch27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  