-- 
Ex-FirstCity Chief Conner Pleads Guilty to Bilking His Failed Georgia Bank

-- B y   D a v i d   B e a s l e y   a n d   L a u r e n c e   V i e l e   D a v i d s o n
-- 
2011-10-21T19:36:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/ex-firstcity-chief-conner-pleads-guilty-to-bilking-failed-bank.html
The former chief executive officer
of  Georgia ’s failed FirstCity Bank admitted to conspiring to
deceive his own bank into lending him millions of dollars.  Mark A. Conner, the former CEO, pleaded guilty to
conspiracy to commit bank fraud and perjury today before U.S.
District Judge Steve Jones in Atlanta federal court. Under a
plea agreement subject to a judge’s approval, Conner, 45, faces
a prison term of 12 years and must forfeit $7 million dollars.
Sentencing was set for January.  Federal authorities arrested Conner on March 20 as he
arrived in Miami from the Turks and Caicos Islands, according to
a statement from prosecutors at the time. An indictment against
him was unsealed a day later. Conner was accused of investing in
real estate ventures using money he obtained from his own and
other banks under false pretenses. He was also charged with
lying about his assets in a bankruptcy filing.  Conner hid his identity from officials at Stockbridge,
Georgia-based FirstCity using false credit memos and lied about
terms and purposes of the loans, prosecutors said. He and his
co-conspirators submitted those records to other banks
participating in the loans, the government charged.  Conner and Clayton Coe, the bank’s senior commercial loan
officer, sought $6.1 million from the federal government’s
Troubled Asset Relief Program and were rejected. The Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. took over FirstCity in March 2009,
according to the indictment.  The case is U.S. v. Conner, 11-CR-121, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of Georgia (Atlanta).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Beasley in Atlanta at 
 dbeasley3@bloomberg.net ;
Laurence Viele Davidson in Atlanta at 
 lviele@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 