-- 
Experts to Discuss China’s Economy at Bloomberg Event

-- B y  
-- 
2011-10-21T03:21:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/experts-to-discuss-china-s-economy-at-bloomberg-event.html

Press Release  Ronald Arculli, Chairman,  Hong Kong  Exchanges and Clearing
Limited; Paul Mackel, Managing Director and Head of Asian
Currency Research, HSBC; and Steve Wang, Executive Director and
Head of Fixed-Income Research, BOCI to Speak at Bloomberg  China 
Conference  Hong Kong -- While the recent slowdown in the pace of China’s
economic growth makes headlines, Bloomberg LINK will convene
economists, investors, and academics to discuss China’s
financial markets and debate the moves that the government is
making to manage the country’s fiscal expansion.  The Bloomberg China Conference, to be held on October 25th at
The Hong Kong Jockey Club, will explore how China can balance
growth and inflation, the yuan’s march to convertibility, the
emerging dim-sum bond market and the new leadership at the helm
of China’s financial regulatory bodies. Speakers will also bet
on the next hot spots in the country’s real estate market and
explore investment opportunities as China’s appetite for
commodities grows.  “While the rate of China’s expansion decreased in the third
quarter, the pace remains five times that of the U.S., so the
administration is facing a number of challenges that come along
with accelerated economic growth,” said  Robert Bierman , head of
Bloomberg LINK. “We’re looking forward to bringing leading
‘China-watchers’ together to provide insight into how investors
are reacting to all of these challenges, and what kind of market
responses we’ll see as a result.”  Key speakers include:  -Ronald Arculli, Chairman, Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing
Limited; Convenor of the Non-Official Members of the Executive
Council, HKSAR  -Ronnie C. Chan, Chairman, Hang Lung Group Limited & Hang Lung
Properties Limited  -Jimmy Chan, Chief Executive Officer, Value Partners Group
Limited  -Paul Mackel, Managing Director - Head of Asian Currency
Research, HSBC  -Todd Martin, Asia Equity Strategist, Société Générale
Mingchun Sun, Chief Economist for Greater China and Head of
China Research, Daiwa Capital Markets Hong Kong Ltd.  -John Tang, Executive Director and China Equity Strategist, UBS  -Jing Ulrich, Managing Director & Chairman of Global Markets,
China, J.P. Morgan  - Steve Wang , Executive Director and Head of Fixed-Income
Research, Bank of China International (BOCI)  The conference is being sponsored by The  Chinese University of
Hong Kong  (CUHK) and T. Rowe Price.  For more information on the program and speakers, please visit:
 http://www.bloomberglink.com/china-hk   Follow on  Facebook ,  LinkedIn  and Twitter ( @BBGLINK ). The hashtag
for this event is #BBchina.  For more information on Bloomberg, please visit
 http://www.bloomberg.com/about .  About Bloomberg LINK  Bringing the power of Bloomberg to the executive conference
business, Bloomberg LINK produces invitation-only, in-person
gatherings that combine world-class editorial programming with
peer-to-peer networking amongst the who’s who in influential
communities. In this environment, participants engage in open
discussions that lead to learning from each other’s expertise
and experience. For more information, please visit
www.bloomberglink.com.  About Bloomberg  Bloomberg, the global business and financial information and
news leader, gives influential decision makers a critical edge
by connecting them to a dynamic network of information, people
and ideas. The company’s strength - delivering data, news and
analytics through innovative technology, quickly and accurately
- is at the core of the Bloomberg Professional service, which
provides real time financial information to more than 310,000
subscribers globally. Bloomberg’s enterprise solutions build on
the company’s core strength, leveraging technology to allow
customers to access, integrate, distribute and manage data and
information across organizations more efficiently and
effectively. Through Bloomberg Law, Bloomberg Government, BNA
and Bloomberg New Energy Finance, the company provides data,
news and analytics to decision makers in industries beyond
finance. And Bloomberg News, delivered through the Bloomberg
Professional service, television, radio, mobile, the Internet
and two magazines, Bloomberg Businessweek and Bloomberg Markets,
covers the world with more than 2,300 news and multimedia
professionals at 146 bureaus in 72 countries. Headquartered in
 New York , Bloomberg employs more than 13,000 people in 185
locations around the world.  Contact for Bloomberg:  Angela Martin, +1 212-617-1211,  angelamartin@bloomberg.net 
