-- 
Facebook Claimant’s Lawyer Must Pay Award in Child Porn Lawsuit

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-10-22T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/facebook-claimant-s-lawyer-hit-with-morphed-child-porn-images-judgment.html
Dean Boland, the new lawyer for
Facebook claimant  Paul Ceglia , was ordered to pay $300,000 in an
unrelated lawsuit over his use of explicit “morphed” images
that he created to help in his defense of people charged with
possessing child pornography.  Boland, a Lakewood, Ohio, lawyer who specializes in
technology cases, was ordered by a federal judge to pay the
money to two unidentified minors whose stock photos Boland used
to create the images of children engaged in sexual conduct.
Boland used the images to aid his testimony as an expert witness
in courts in Ohio and  Oklahoma .  “The court concludes that a constitutionally effective
defense to a child pornography charge does not include the right
to victimize additional minors by creating new child pornography
in the course of preparing and presenting a defense,” U.S.
District Judge Dan Polster in  Cleveland  said in an opinion,
rejecting Boland’s claim that his use of the images was
constitutionally protected.  Boland used the morphed images to show how difficult it is
for people possessing child pornography to determine whether the
images depict real children or were created artificially,
according to Polster’s Oct. 20 opinion. Boland said he plans to
appeal the judgment.  “This ruling has the potential to affect the ability of
people to get fair trials across the country,” Boland said
yesterday in a phone interview.  Fourth Lead Lawyer  Ceglia, the New York man who claims a 2003 contract
entitles him to half the holdings of Facebook Inc. founder  Mark Zuckerberg , hired Boland as his new lawyer, his fourth lead
counsel since filing the lawsuit in 2010. Boland said he has
been working on the case for a few weeks. He filed papers
yesterday in federal court in Buffalo,  New York , to represent
Ceglia.  Boland, a former state prosecutor, said he isn’t troubled
that several lawyers have left the case. He said he has
experience litigating cases involving computer images, document
authentication and other forensic issues that have been raised
in the Ceglia case.  Boland said he has represented clients in technology-
related cases throughout the country, including defendants
wrongly charged with possessing child pornography.  “There are multiple people walking free yesterday who were
wrongly charged with a pretty heinous crime” because of his
efforts, he said. According to Boland’s  website , he has written
and lectured extensively on technology and the law.  Contract, E-Mails  Ceglia, who is currently in Ireland, has produced a
contract and e-mails that he said prove his claim to ownership
in  Facebook .  The social networking company, based in  Palo Alto ,
 California , has accused Ceglia of fabricating the documents and
has called his suit a fraud.  Both sides agree that Zuckerberg signed a contract with
Ceglia in 2003, when Zuckerberg was a freshman at  Harvard
University , to do computer coding for StreetFax.com, a company
Ceglia was trying to start. Ceglia claims the contract included
a provision giving him a partnership stake in Facebook, now the
world’s biggest social networking site.  The company said its computer experts have found the
genuine contract between Ceglia and Zuckerberg, which concerns
only the StreetFax work, on one of Ceglia’s computers. The
contract makes no mention of Facebook, according to the company.  ‘Meat’ of Case  “My client is very anxious to get to the meat of the
case,” Boland said.  According to the judge’s decision in the lawsuit over the
altered photos, Boland used the images to aid his expert
testimony in three criminal prosecutions for possession of child
pornography. In one hearing, prosecutors questioned whether
Boland’s use of the images violated the law against possession
of child pornography.  In 2007, Boland entered into a deferred prosecution
agreement with prosecutors in Cleveland, avoiding a criminal
conviction. As part of the agreement, Boland apologized in a
local legal publication and admitted the images violated federal
law, according to an appeals court decision.  That same year, the guardians of the children whose
photographs were used sued Boland for digitally altering the
stock shots. Polster dismissed the claims, calling it a
“difficult and troubling case.” That decision was reversed on
appeal and the case was returned to Polster, who granted summary
judgment for the two children on Oct. 20, awarding $150,000 to
each.  The civil case is Doe v. Boland, 07-CV-02787, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  Ohio  (Cleveland). The Ceglia case is
Ceglia v. Zuckerberg, 1:10-cv-00569, U.S. District Court,
Western District of New York (Buffalo).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 