-- 
Fisher Says Operation Twist Benefiting ‘Monied’ Interests

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 
2011-10-21T18:42:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/fed-s-fisher-says-operation-twist-helps-financiers-while-not-creating-jobs.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
President  Richard Fisher  said the central bank’s plan to buy
$400 billion of long-term bonds while selling the same amount of
short-term debt is benefiting financiers and not aiding job
creation.  The bond swap program, known as Operation Twist for its
goal of bending the yield curve, has “so far been of greater
benefit to traders and large monied interests than to job-
creating businesses,” Fisher said today in a speech in Dallas.  “I would submit that adding more liquidity, or making
money still cheaper, is not the answer to our problems,” Fisher
said, renewing his criticism of Congress and the White House who
“have conspired over time, however unwittingly, to drive fiscal
policy into the ditch.”  Fisher was one of three Fed policy makers to dissent from
decisions in August and September to ease policy with
unconventional tools. Central bankers last month discussed
additional measures aimed at lowering borrowing costs, such as
large-scale asset purchases and tying the Fed’s near-zero
interest rates to economic indicators such as inflation.  Directing his remarks to “Republicans and Democrats
alike,” Fisher, himself a former candidate for the  U.S. Senate 
in  Texas  as a Democrat, said politicians “purchased their
elections and re-elections with popular programs so poorly
funded that they now threaten the economic well-being of our
children and our children’s children.”  Not ‘Honorable’  “This is the opposite of honorable, and it must stop,”
Fisher said in the text of remarks to the Dallas Friday Group,
an organization of people in business.  Yesterday, Fed Governor  Daniel Tarullo , who’s backed all of
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke’s policy decisions for almost three
years, said the central bank should consider resuming large-
scale purchases of mortgage bonds to boost economic growth and
help combat a “crisis” in employment.  Speaking to reporters after the event, Fisher said that
“at present I am not similarly inclined” to support further
purchases of housing debt. “I would not expect in my view the
 Federal Open Market Committee  has to do something at every
meeting,” he said. “Otherwise it gets out of control.”  Chicago Fed President Charles Evans and  Eric Rosengren  of
 Boston  have also urged the policy-setting Federal Open Market
Committee to increase its record stimulus in an effort to spur
the recovery and bring down an  unemployment rate  stuck near 9
percent or higher for 30 consecutive months.  Fiscal Incentives  The Fed has “filled the tanks with the liquidity, or fuel,
needed to create jobs,” Fisher said. “But only the fiscal
authorities -- the Congress and the executive branch -- can
provide the tax, spending and regulatory incentives to induce
the private sector to step on the accelerator and engage the
transmission of  job creation .”  Fisher said that job creation, not inflation, is the most
pressing concern for the  United States . Measures of inflation,
he said, are likely to “gravitate toward the 2 percent level.”  If, instead, inflation continued to spread, Fisher said he
“will be first out of the box to advocate the removal of the
substantial monetary accommodation now in place.”  The consumer-price index climbed 0.3 percent in September
from the prior month, the Labor Department said Oct. 19 in
 Washington . Excluding volatile food and fuel costs, the so-
called core rose 0.1 percent. That puts  core inflation  2 percent
higher than a year ago and total inflation 3.9 percent higher,
the most since September 2008.  Fisher said the economy was “headed in the right direction
slowly” and that if fiscal policy makers “get their act
together” then “there is plenty of potential for confidence to
be bolstered and propel the economy forward at an accelerating
clip.”  Fisher, 62, became president of the  Dallas  Fed in April
2005. During his tenure he has dissented from decisions of the
FOMC seven times.  -- With assistance from Scott Lanman in Washington. Editors:
Carlos Torres, Vince Golle  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  