-- 
Fed’s Yellen: QE3 May Be Warranted

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   J e n n i f e r   O l d h a m
-- 
2011-10-21T21:52:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/fed-s-yellen-says-qe3-may-be-warranted-if-more-easing-needed-for-stimulus.html
Federal Reserve Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  said a third round of large-scale securities purchases
might become warranted if necessary to boost a  U.S. economy 
challenged by unemployment and financial turmoil.  The central bank should also give “careful consideration”
to Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans ’s proposal to tie the
near-zero interest-rate pledge to specific levels of
unemployment and inflation, Yellen said today in a speech in
Denver.  The remarks signal Fed officials may be prepared to delve
further into unprecedented monetary territory and take criticism
inside and outside the central bank for expanding the balance
sheet. Fed policy makers are struggling to lower unemployment
that’s been stuck near 9 percent or higher for 30 months without
boosting inflation that’s already close to the central bank’s
long-run goal.  “Securities purchases across a wide spectrum of maturities
might become appropriate if evolving economic conditions called
for significantly greater monetary accommodation,” Yellen said
in prepared comments to the annual meeting of the Financial
Management Association International.  The U.S. recovery is “disappointingly slow,” which leaves
the economy “vulnerable to downside shocks,” Yellen said. Job
growth is likely to remain “tepid in the coming months,” and
the chance that  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis may pressure U.S.
financial companies is “particularly worrisome,” Yellen said.  Adverse Developments  “The potential for such adverse financial developments to
derail the recovery creates, in my view, significant downside
risks to the outlook,” said Yellen, 65, an economist who has
been Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s top lieutenant in Washington for
one year. She previously served as president of the San
Francisco Fed.  Stocks extended gains after the speech, with the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index rising 1.9 percent to 1,238.25 at 4 p.m. in  New
York . Yields on 10-year Treasuries rose 3 basis points, or 0.03
percent, to 2.22 percent from yesterday.  Responding to a question after the speech, Yellen said that
the Fed is “certainly not targeting equity prices,” yet at the
same time, “we would expect any action that we take that’s
providing additional accommodation to show up in supporting the
stock market.”  Fed officials are divided over whether and how to ease
policy further after two decisions to lower borrowing costs with
unconventional tools. Options include a third round of
securities purchases and making the near-zero interest-rate
pledge more specific. Dissenters including Philadelphia Fed
Chief  Charles Plosser  say loosening policy harms the central
bank’s credibility.  Fed Pledge  In August, the Fed pledged to hold  interest rates  near zero
until at least mid-2013, and last month the central bank said it
would swap $400 billion of short-term debt in its portfolio for
longer-term securities in order to bring down interest rates, a
strategy dubbed Operation Twist by economists and the “maturity
extension program” by the Fed.  Yellen said the scale of Operation Twist “is necessarily
limited by the amount of our holdings of shorter-term
securities” and that buying such a large portion of long-term
Treasuries “could potentially have adverse effects on market
functioning.”  As a result, buying securities with varying maturities may
eventually be warranted, she said without giving a timeframe or
specifying the type of asset.  Yesterday, Fed Governor  Daniel Tarullo , who’s backed all of
Bernanke’s policy decisions for almost three years, said the
central bank should consider resuming large-scale purchases of
mortgage bonds to boost economic growth and help combat a
“crisis” in employment.  Record Stimulus  Evans and  Eric Rosengren  of  Boston  have also urged the
policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee  to increase its
record stimulus. Evans is calling for the Fed to keep the target
for the benchmark U.S. interest rate near zero until either
unemployment falls below 7 percent or the medium-term inflation
outlook rises above 3 percent.  Evans’s plan is “potentially promising” and “could be
helpful in facilitating public understanding of how various
possible shifts in the economic outlook would be likely to
affect the anticipated timing of policy firming,” Yellen said
today.  At the same time, the approach has “potential pitfalls,”
including the chance that “such thresholds could potentially be
misunderstood as conveying the committee’s longer-run objectives
rather than the conditions surrounding the likely onset of
policy firming,” Yellen said.  More Asset Purchases  Rosengren said in an Oct. 19 interview with CNBC that “if
the economy were to be weaker than most people are forecasting,
that would certainly be cause for doing additional monetary
policy,” and more asset purchases are “certainly a
possibility.”  The August and September FOMC decisions provoked dissents
from three policy makers, the most disagreement during
Bernanke’s almost six years as chairman. One of those policy
makers, Minneapolis Fed President  Narayana Kocherlakota , said
today that the Fed’s decision-making this year “has introduced
a lack of clarity about its monetary policy mission.”  Additional asset purchases would constitute a third round
of so-called quantitative easing after the Fed bought $2.3
trillion in housing and government debt in two rounds from
December 2008 to June 2011.  Any decision to expand the Fed’s $2.86 trillion balance
sheet may also spark a fresh wave of political criticism from
Republicans. Most of the party’s presidential candidates have
found fault with Bernanke or the Fed; Texas Governor Rick Perry
said printing more money may be “treasonous.” Republican
lawmakers, including House Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio , sent a
letter to Fed officials last month urging them to forgo
additional easing.  Yellen said the view is “erroneous” that the Fed’s
expansion of its balance sheet through additional bank reserves
will fuel inflation because the central bank can raise the
interest rate paid on reserves. The Fed eventually plans to
shrink its assets once it judges inflation is a risk, Yellen
said.  Economic Outlook  The economy expanded at a 1.3 percent annual pace in the
second quarter after a 0.4 percent rate in the first three
months of the year, according to the Commerce Department.
Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg this month projected a 2 percent
rate of growth in the third quarter, based on the median
estimate; the government will release its first estimate on Oct.
27.  Economic growth, after an annual pace of less than 1
percent in the first half of 2011, is likely to be “noticeably
stronger” in the second half, with inflation “more moderate,”
Yellen said, citing lower commodity prices and increased auto
production and sales.  “Unfortunately, however, a range of other, more persistent
factors also appear to be restraining the recovery,” Yellen
said. “Moreover, financial market conditions have deteriorated,
on net, in recent months, intensifying some of the headwinds
facing the economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in  Washington  at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Oldham in Denver at 
 joldham1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  