-- 
FIFA President Blatter Says Anti-Graft Changes to Be Completed by 2013

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-10-21T17:02:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/fifa-president-blatter-says-anti-graft-changes-to-be-completed-by-2013.html
FIFA President Sepp Blatter today
said soccer’s governing body will be reformed by 2013 after he
unveiled a program to tighten regulations that have led to
sanctions against several officials accused of corruption.  Blatter met with FIFA’s executive committee today and then
revealed a plan to release names of officials who took money
from the Zurich-based organization’s former marketing partner,
ISL. The company collapsed in 2001 with debts of $300 million.  “We can’t move too fast,” Blatter said at a press
conference. “I think we’ve been ambitious in our road map, it’s
almost a Formula One model. By 2013 we should have lived up to
the requests made by the national associations in 2011.”  FIFA’s  struggled with the suspension of several officials
because of improper behavior linked to the votes for  World Cup 
hosts and then the body’s presidency. Blatter was re-elected to
a fourth four-year term on June 1 after his only challenger,
Mohamed  Bin Hammam , pulled out days before the poll after being
accused of paying bribes.  Bin Hammam, who was head of soccer in  Asia , is appealing a
life ban he received in July. FIFA’s vice president  Jack Warner 
quit while under investigation for setting up a meeting where
Bin Hammam allegedly gave Caribbean officials bundles of
$40,000.  Allegations  FIFA has spent the past three months speaking with outside
agencies including  Transparency International  to come up with
ways to improve its corporate regulation.  A committee of “good governance” involving fans,
politicians, players, referees and judges will be set up by
December and oversee the measures. Those will include
strengthening its code of ethics and screening officials before
inviting them to join the executive committee. Almost half of
its members have been subject to allegations over their conduct.  “We have 300 million players and participants in the game
and not all can be angels,” Blatter said. “The institution is
not corrupt. You will always find some racism, doping, violence
and corruption. You can’t avoid it if you have 300 million
people”  Blatter said plans to recruit former U.S. Secretary of
State  Henry Kissinger  to the good governance committee had been
dropped because FIFA required politicians who were still active.
Opera singer Placido Domingo ruled himself out earlier this year
after Blatter said he wanted the tenor to advise FIFA on its
reforms.  Next Steps  “It takes time to change the structure step by step and
then change the culture within,” Sylvia Schenk, a  Transparency
International  official who’s been advising FIFA, said today.  FIFA has avoided releasing the names of the officials who
took money from ISL, which was responsible for selling
television rights and marketing contracts for the World Cup.  The prosecutor’s office in the Swiss canton of Zug released
a statement last June that said “foreign persons of FIFA-
institutions have received provisions” from ISL, without
disclosing their names.  FIFA agreed to pay 5.5 million Swiss francs ($6.15
million), of which 2.5 million francs would go to charities on
condition the names of the individuals were not revealed.  Blatter said FIFA will “reopen the file” when its
committee meets in  Tokyo  in December. Independent investigators
will then be asked to look at the file for examples of
malfeasance, FIFA said. The documents may be made public early
next year.  The 75-year-old Blatter has been either FIFA’s general
secretary or president for almost 30 years.  “I have just been re-elected by the congress and I have no
intention of resigning,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in Zurich via London on  at
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  