-- 
Financial Regulators Approved by Senate to Play Dodd-Frank Roles

-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-10-21T12:44:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/financial-regulators-approved-by-senate-to-play-dodd-frank-roles.html
The  U.S. Senate  confirmed three of
President Barack Obama’s nominees for financial-regulator posts,
including additions to the Securities and Exchange Commission
and Commodity Futures Trading Commission who will have a say in
Dodd-Frank Act rulemaking.  Lawmakers today approved Republican Daniel M. Gallagher and
incumbent Democrat Luis A. Aguilar as SEC commissioners and Mark
P. Wetjen to serve on the CFTC.  Gallagher, a former SEC deputy division chief, will join
Aguilar and the agency’s other three commissioners as the agency
works to implement more than 100 rules it was assigned to write
under Dodd-Frank. Wetjen, a policy adviser to Senate Majority
Leader Harry Reid, will replace Democrat  Michael Dunn  on the
five-member CFTC, which is writing rules for the $601 trillion
global swaps market.  Acting FDIC Chairman Martin J. Gruenberg, Obama’s choice to
lead the agency, and  Thomas Curry , the FDIC board member
nominated to become comptroller of the currency; and Richard Cordray, the president’s pick to lead the consumer bureau, are
awaiting Senate confirmation after they were approved by the
Banking Committee.  The confirmations came the day after Obama nominated former
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City President  Thomas Hoenig 
yesterday to serve as the FDIC’s vice chairman. Hoenig, who
served as the Kansas City Fed’s president for 20 years, has been
an opponent of large banks, calling for their breakup. In a
speech in June, Hoenig said that systemically important
financial institutions, or SIFIs, “are fundamentally
inconsistent with capitalism.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 