-- 
Flaherty Considering More Explicit Bank of Canada Mandate

-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 
2011-10-21T19:51:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/flaherty-says-considering-more-explicit-bank-of-canada-mandate.html
Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said he’s considering a more explicit mandate for the
Bank of  Canada , rather than adding to the central bank’s
responsibilities.  Flaherty, speaking to reporters in Ottawa, said he’s had
discussions with  Bank of Canada  Governor  Mark Carney  ahead of
reaching a new agreement on the central bank’s mandate.  “The governor and I have discussed this at some length,”
Flaherty told reporters in Ottawa. “We are in line with each
other on this. We’re not talking about a new policy or a new
mandate for the Bank of Canada. What we are talking about is
being more explicit about what the mandate of the Bank of Canada
is.” He did not elaborate.  Under the current agreement, which expires at the end of
this year, the Bank of Canada targets a 2 percent annual
inflation rate. Since the last renewal in 2006, the central bank
 said  it would study pegging the level of the consumer-price
index instead, as well as reducing the inflation target and
using policy to counter asset-price bubbles.  The House of Commons  Finance Committee  voted yesterday to
study whether the Bank of Canada’s monetary policy mandate
should be broadened to include other targets such as full
employment. The committee will hold at least one meeting before
the end of November on the matter.  The Bank of Canada has done a good job of keeping inflation
at an average growth rate of 2 percent since the target was
adopted in 1991, said Craig Alexander, chief economist at
Toronto Dominion Bank.  ‘Remarkable Job’  “If it ain’t broke, don’t fix it,” Alexander said in a
phone interview. “The Bank of Canada has done a remarkable job
of achieving its actual inflation objective.”  Seven of 11 economists surveyed by Bloomberg from Sept. 22
to Sept. 29 said the bank’s goal will not change when it comes
up for renewal by the end of the year.  Canada’s annual inflation rate unexpectedly accelerated to
3.2 percent in September,  Statistics Canada  reported today,
while a measure of price increases that factors out volatile
items reached 2.2 percent, the highest in almost three years.  Bank of Canada spokesman  Jeremy Harrison  declined to
comment on the issue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  