-- 
Ford Credit Ratings Upgraded Two Levels by S&P on Labor Pact

-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n   a n d   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 
2011-10-21T20:12:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/ford-credit-ratings-upgraded-two-levels-by-s-p-on-new-labor-pact.html
Standard & Poor’s  raised  Ford Motor
Co. (F) ’s credit rating two levels saying the automaker’s new labor
contract will not impede profitability or cash generation.  The ratings company today lifted Ford’s corporate credit
rating to BB+, the highest non-investment grade, from BB-, and
assigned a stable outlook. Such an outlook implies there is less
than a one-third chance that the company will be upgraded again
within a year, Robert Schulz, S&P’s auto analyst, said Oct. 19.  “We believe the company’s automotive operations in  North
America  will remain profitable with industry light-vehicle sales
at or even somewhat below current levels,” Schulz said today in
a statement. “We also believe Ford has good prospects for
generating at least $2 billion in automotive operating cash flow
in 2012, even if the key U.S. auto market does not recover
significantly.”  Ford workers voted 63 percent in favor of a new four-year
contract in balloting this month, the United Auto Workers said
Oct. 19.  Fitch Ratings  said yesterday it upgraded Ford to BB+
from BB and assigned a positive outlook. Moody’s Investors
Service also has said it is reviewing ratings on the Dearborn,
Michigan-based automaker, which fell to so-called junk status
six years ago.  Ford rose 4.8 percent to $12.26 at the close in  New York  ,
the highest since Aug. 1. The shares have fallen 27 percent this
year.  “As long as they continue on the track they’re on, and
providing that the  auto industry  doesn’t tank, they should be
pretty well on their way to investment grade,” Jody Lurie, a
credit analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia,
said in a phone interview. “I see it as a possibility in the
near term. They have investment grade in their eyesight.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  