-- 
France Retreats in German Clash Over Bailout Fund Leverage

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   F r e d   P a l s
-- 
2011-10-22T08:36:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/french-view-that-efsf-should-act-as-a-bank-not-definitive-baroin-says.html
France  retreated from a clash with
Germany over how to expand the power of  Europe ’s bailout fund as
finance ministers entered the second of a six-day marathon to
stave off a Greek default and shield banks from the fallout.  The French proposal that the fund, the European Financial
Stability Facility, should get a banking license enabling it to
borrow from the  European Central Bank  “is no longer an
option,” Dutch Finance Minister  Jan Kees de Jager  told reporters 
today in Brussels. He said two options were under consideration, 
declining to discuss them further. Still, there are “big 
differences” among countries, he said.  The French flexibility indicated progress toward easing the
threat to the global economy stemming from Greece. As they began
their consultations yesterday, the euro-area finance chiefs
received an assessment from auditors that Greek finances have
taken a “turn for the worse,” requiring more official aid and
deeper investor writedowns.  Stocks and the euro rallied on signs that policy makers may
heed prodding from global leaders including President  Barack Obama  to calm global markets. Officials are also considering
unleashing as much as 940 billion euros ($1.3 trillion) to fight
the debt crisis, almost double the current ceiling, by combining
the 440 billion-euro EFSF and its planned successor, the
European Stability Mechanism.  Bank Recapitalization  The 27 European Union finance ministers today are
addressing the framework for bank recapitalizations,  De Jager 
said. French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  were set to meet later before a summit tomorrow
and a follow-up gathering on Oct. 26 to nail down what they have
called a “comprehensive” plan.  Luxembourg’s Jean-Claude Juncker said today that no
decisions were likely until then.  Aid of 256 billion euros for Greece, Ireland and  Portugal 
has failed to stabilize markets or prevent the turmoil from
spreading to France, co-anchor with  Germany  of the European
economy. French bank shares have tumbled on concern they are
vulnerable to losses around Europe’s periphery.  With French bond premiums against Germany at euro-era
highs, France yielded to opposition from both the ECB and its
neighbor and largest trading partner.  The Franco-German split centered on how to leverage the
EFSF. While Germany endorsed enabling it to insure a portion of
cash-strapped nations’ bond sales, France wanted to turn it into
a bank that could tap the ECB.  ‘Everyone Knows’  “Everyone knows the reticence of the central bank and
everyone also knows of the reticence of the German position,”
French Finance Minister  Francois Baroin  said on Oct. 19. “For
us it is and will remain the most effective position. The
Americans do it, the British do it.”  After the first round of talks yesterday, Baroin said that
“is not a definitive point of discussion for us.”  “What matters is what works,” he said.  The start of yesterday’s meeting was overshadowed by the
report by the European Commission, the ECB and the  International
Monetary Fund  on  Greece  that highlighted the scope of fixing
Greece’s finances without sending shockwaves through the banking
system.  Officials are considering five scenarios to update a July
agreement that foresaw 21 percent losses on Greek debt for
private bondholders, people familiar with the deliberations
said. They range from sticking with a voluntary swap to a so-
called hard restructuring that forces investors to exchange
Greek bonds for new ones at 50 percent of their value, the
people said.  Bank Talks  “We have to discuss with the private sector and see what
is suitable,”  Spain ’s  Elena Salgado  told reporters. Ministers
discussed investor losses of “more than 21 percent,” she said.  Talks on investor losses in Greek holdings won’t be
addressed by the 27 ministers today as they were a topic for the
17 euro countries.  Divisions over the handling of Greece were thrown into
relief by the report, which was obtained by Bloomberg News. It
contained a footnote that the ECB, which has lobbied against
writedowns, “does not agree” with the inclusion of the bond-
loss scenarios.  The ministers yesterday signed off on the payout of its 5.8
billion-euro share of an 8 billion-euro loan to Greece. It’s the
sixth installment of a 110 billion-euro package awarded in May
2010.  A deepening recession and delays in enacting budget cuts
have raised Greece’s financing needs by at least 20 billion
euros since July, when euro leaders hammered out a 159 billion-
euro package, the people said.  Greek Needs  “Given still-delayed  market access , large-scale additional
official financing requirements would remain, estimated at some
114 billion euros,” according to the auditors’ report, dated
yesterday. “To get the debt down further would require a larger
private-sector contribution” of at least 60 percent to reduce
debt below 110 percent of gross domestic product by 2020.  The government in  Athens  forecasts the debt load next year
at about 172 percent of GDP.  Greece has said it has the cash to operate until mid-
November after a scheduled review of the country’s progress in
meeting fiscal targets was suspended for about two weeks last
month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Brussels at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Fred Pals in Brussels at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  