-- 
Gasoline Advances Amid Speculation European Debt Crisis Easing

-- B y   G e n e   L a v e r t y
-- 
2011-10-21T19:40:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/gasoline-advances-amid-speculation-european-debt-crisis-easing.html
Gasoline rose, following crude oil
higher, as European leaders prepare for weekend talks on
bolstering a rescue fund to ease the region’s debt crisis.  Futures advanced a second day as nations in the European
Union prepare for a six-day meeting on how to save  Greece  from
default, shield banks from the fallout and build more powerful
defenses against the debt crisis.  “Gasoline is up on optimism from the European Union that
over the weekend they will come to some resolution of
restructuring,” said  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil
Associates in Houston. “For last couple of weeks we’ve seen the
markets fluctuate on sentiment on whether they will resolve
their problems or they won’t.”  Gasoline for November delivery rose 0.91 cent to settle at
$2.6846 a gallon on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices
sank 5 percent this week.  December-delivery crude on Nymex gained $1.33 to settle at
$87.40 a barrel.  Gasoline and heating-oil futures pared increases after
 Brent crude  on the ICE Futures Europe exchange reversed earlier
gains of as much as 1.9 percent. December-settlement Brent fell
20 cents to $109.56.  Demand for gasoline declined last week while production
jumped 4.5 percent to a five-week high of 9.31 million barrels a
day, according to Energy Department data.  Gasoline imports in the U.S. East Coast may decrease as BP
Plc is likely to miss an expected start date for a crude unit at
Europe’s second-largest refinery. Start-up of the unit at the
unit at the Rotterdam refinery, expected at the end of October,
may be delayed at least a week, according to two people with
knowledge of the matter.  European Inventories  Lower European fuel inventories may also limit imports.
Gasoline stockpiles in independent storage in  Europe ’s
Amsterdam-Rotterdam-Antwerp oil-trading hub fell 5 percent last
week to 575,000 tons, according to PJK International BV.  November-delivery heating oil slipped 1.26 cents, or 0.4
percent, to settle at $3.0175 a gallon on the Nymex. Prices were
down 1.3 percent this week.  Heating demand is forecast to trail normal by 21 percent
for the next in the U.S. Northeast, according to Belton,
Missouri-based forecaster Weather Derivatives. The Northeast is
the biggest consuming region for heating oil.  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide, fell 0.6
cent to $3.468 a gallon yesterday, according to AAA data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gene Laverty in Calgary at 
 glaverty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  