-- 
GE Capital Said to Lend $800 Million for Blackstone Office Deal

-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u   a n d   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-10-22T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/ge-capital-said-to-lend-800-million-for-blackstone-office-deal.html
General Electric Co. (GE) ’s lending arm
agreed to provide about $800 million to help finance  Blackstone
Group LP (BX) ’s $1.08 billion purchase of U.S. suburban office
buildings, said two people briefed on the transaction.  The loan marks GE Capital’s first large commercial real
estate financing since the credit crisis following Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.’s bankruptcy in September 2008, according
to the people, who asked not to be identified because the
information is private. Blackstone is buying the properties,
located mostly in the Midwest and South, from  Duke Realty Corp. (DRE)   The deal with Blackstone, the world’s largest private-
equity firm, matches GE’s strategy of concentrating on debt
investments at GE Capital’s property unit while lessening the
equity portion. GE, based in Fairfield,  Connecticut , yesterday
reported third-quarter earnings that matched analyst estimates
as it recorded narrower-than-expected losses from the real
estate division.  “You’ve seen more liquidity come into the real estate
property market,” GE Chief Financial Officer Keith Sherin said
in a telephone interview yesterday. “There’s quite a bit of
investment by international funds, strategic funds in the
space.”  The company is resuming commercial-property financing as
some Wall Street lenders pull back from making loans for real
estate purchases. Widening spreads in the market for commercial
mortgage-backed securities are eroding profits on the deals. The
extra yield investors demand to hold the top-ranked portion of
bonds backed by commercial mortgages jumped to the highest level
since February 2010 earlier this month, according to a Barclays
Capital Inc. index.  Narrowed Loss  GE Capital ’s real estate unit had a third-quarter loss of
$82 million, narrowed from $405 million a year earlier and $335
million in the previous three months. The results were better
than the estimates of analysts at firms including Credit Suisse
Group AG and William Blair & Co.  GE Capital plans to hold the mortgage on the deal with
Blackstone, one of the people briefed on the financing said. The
rest of the financing will come from the equity in Blackstone’s
seventh real estate fund, the people said.  GE may choose to eventually syndicate the loan as it has in
previous transactions, one of the people said.  John Oliver, a spokesman for GE Capital, declined to
comment yesterday, as did Blackstone spokesman  Peter Rose .  Blackstone is buying 82 buildings with a combined 10.1
million square feet (938,000 square meters) of space,
Indianapolis-based Duke Realty said in a statement Oct. 20. They
include properties in the suburbs of  Chicago , Minneapolis,
 Dallas  and Atlanta.  Blackstone has invested more than $7 billion in real estate
this year, and has raised $4 billion for its latest property
fund that the New York-based firm expects to exceed $10 billion,
Chairman  Stephen Schwarzman  said Oct. 20.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at   hyu@bloomberg.net ;
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  