-- 
GE Falls as Energy Margins Temper Profit Gain Led by Finance

-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-10-21T20:23:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/ge-earnings-match-estimates-as-finance-unit-s-gain-blunts-drop-in-energy.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  dropped in New
York trading as tighter profit margins in industrial businesses
from energy to aviation overshadowed third-quarter growth led by
a rebounding finance unit.  GE fell 1.9 percent to $16.31 at 4 p.m. even as most U.S.
stocks advanced. Profit rose 11 percent and adjusted earnings of
31 cents a share matched analysts’ estimates, the first time
since 2008’s fourth quarter that GE failed to beat projections
on that basis.  Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  is shrinking the
finance unit at Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE and expanding
industrial businesses, in part with spending on research and
development and new plants, because investors value
manufacturing more highly.  “Margins hit a low for the year in the third quarter,”
Immelt said on a conference call. “We expect improvement in the
fourth quarter. Energy is a big driver.”  GE reiterated that margins this year will probably trail
expectations, with “solid” growth returning in 2012, bolstered
partly by lower research spending as a percentage of sales and
improving results from acquisitions and services.  “That really is the margin story,” Immelt said.  Earnings Growth  On a companywide basis,  GE Capital ’s 79 percent gain helped
push earnings from continuing operations to $3.4 billion from
$3.06 billion, or 28 cents a share, a year earlier excluding
pension costs, GE said in a statement. That marked the sixth
straight quarter of profit growth.  Earnings were helped by tax rates that were lower than GE
initially projected. Excluding the NBC divestiture, the
company’s consolidated year-to-date rate is 18 percent, compared
with a previous estimate in the low 20s, Chief Financial Officer
Keith Sherin said on the call. The full-year rate may be 19
percent to 20 percent.  Revenue from industrial businesses climbed 19 percent, fed
by growth in markets such as China and  India . Manufacturing
yielded less profit than a year earlier as energy
infrastructure, the largest industrial segment, shipped older
orders for lower-priced turbines and GE Aviation invested in
research and development.  Declining profit margins in oil and gas, energy, aviation
and health-care units underscored “our concern that there is
little or no operative leverage in GE’s portfolio due to low-
priced equipment in backlog and research and development
headwinds,” Jeff Sprague, co-founder of Vertical Research
Partners in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a note to clients.  Stock Performance  GE was one of only two companies to fall among the 30 in
the  Dow Jones Industrial Average , which rose 2.3 percent. The
shares also were among the worst performers in the  S&P 500 ,
which rose 1.9 percent to the highest level since Aug. 3. GE’s
11 percent tumble this year has outpaced the Dow and the S&P
500.  Profit in energy infrastructure, which is absorbing $12
billion in acquisitions, slipped 9 percent, more than the
average estimate from four analysts including JPMorgan Chase &
Co. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  The wind business alone drove energy’s profit margin down
by 2.9 percentage points, Sherin said. Acquisitions cut 0.6
point while investments and other items slashed 1.3 points.  In the three months through December, wind “is still going
to be a drag, but not as much as in the third quarter,” Sherin
said in a telephone interview. “The fourth quarter will be
better.”  Energy Growth  GE’s order backlog rose to a record $191 billion through
September from $189 billion in the previous three-month period.  “I particularly like the backlogs and how they are
positioned,” Immelt said on the call. “A lot of our
positioning is in growth markets.”  Per-share profit will begin “double-digit growth,”
increasing at least 10 percent, starting next year, GE said. GE
expects to get about 60 percent of its annual revenue from
overseas this year, up from 53 percent last year.  Companywide results exclude pension costs and an expense of
$881 million, or 8 cents a share, to repurchase preferred stock
sold to Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. as financial
markets froze in October 2008.  Including the cost of repurchasing the Berkshire Hathaway
stake and other expenses, net income climbed 57 percent to $3.22
billion, or 22 cents a share, from $2.06 billion, or 18 cents a
share, a year earlier. Buying back the Berkshire stake will add
3 cents a share to yearly earnings, GE said.  Berkshire Stake  The GE Capital business, which began to be regulated by the
U.S. Federal Reserve in July, expects to resume its dividend
payment to the parent company in 2012, Sherin said. That return
is tied to the Fed’s assessment, he said.  GE Capital Corp.’s Tier 1 common ratio, a measure used by
regulators to gauge financial strength, rose to 11 percent from
10.4 percent in the second quarter.  Revenue at the parent company climbed 12 percent to $35.4
billion, excluding the sale of  NBC Universal , GE said. That
topped analysts’ estimates of $34.8 billion.  Cash of $91 billion on GE’s balance sheet as of Sept. 30
was unchanged from the previous quarter. Immelt said he remains
focused on small deals and increasing the dividend, which
returned to growth last year.  Decisions on increasing the investor payout won’t be
affected by the Fed’s timing on GE Capital’s dividend to the
parent company, he said.  “We will continue with the balanced and disciplined
capital allocation approach,” he said. “We will be selective
in terms of where we do M&A and buybacks.”  Development Costs  Immelt has doubled research and development at the
industrial units and is building new businesses in areas such as
mining equipment. A new plant in  Texas , announced this week,
will build motorized wheels for off-highway vehicles.  The energy business is targeting profit growth of 10
percent next year, executives said in September. Earnings this
year should be about $7 billion, compared with last year’s $7.3
billion.  Orders for gas-based power generation are rising and prices
for renewable sources like wind, biogas and solar are
stabilizing. The company said it expects improvement in
industrial margins, including energy, in the fourth quarter.  Order Book  “We’re pleased that we’re seeing orders translate into
sales, and we’re seeing that translate into year-over-year
growth,” Peter Klein, a portfolio manager at Fifth Third Bank
in  Cleveland , said in a Bloomberg Television interview. “The
order book is continuing to be very solid.”  Industrial operations generated $6.5 billion cash in the
first nine months, down 35 percent from a year earlier.  The energy division’s sales climbed 30 percent to $10.9
billion, while revenue gained at all of the other industrial
businesses except for Home & Business Solutions.  At GE Aviation, development costs for the GEnx jet engine,
shipped with Boeing Co.’s 747-8 jumbo jet and 787 Dreamliner,
cut into profit margins from 10 percent sales growth.  Aviation orders increased 14 percent to $5.7 billion,
fueled by rising engine demand for commercial and military
planes. The unit’s  equipment backlog  expanded to $21 billion, GE
said in a presentation.  For the full year, GE projects growth from existing
industrial businesses of more than 5 percent as well as gains in
GE Capital, Immelt said on the call.  “In 2012, we should have both solid organic growth and
expanding margins,” he said. “We are well-positioned in this
volatile environment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  