-- 
German Business Confidence Drops to 16-Month Low as EU Tackles Debt Crisis

-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-10-21T08:52:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/german-business-confidence-drops-to-16-month-low-as-eu-tackles-debt-crisis.html
German business confidence fell to a
16-month low in October as the euro region’s worsening debt
crisis threatened to push the economy into recession.  The Munich-based Ifo institute’s business climate index,
based on a survey of 7,000 executives, dropped to 106.4, the
lowest since June 2010, from 107.4 in September. Economists
expected a decline to 106.2, according to the median forecast of
42 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  European leaders, due to meet in Brussels on Oct. 23, are
under pressure to find a solution to the turmoil that has pushed
 Greece  to the brink of default and is now threatening banks
across the 17-nation euro area. German investor confidence
slumped to a three-year low this month and the benchmark DAX
share index has dropped 21 percent over the past three months,
reflecting concern that company earnings may suffer.  “There is no reason why it shouldn’t hit German
companies,” said  Andreas Moeller , an economist at WGZ Bank in
Dusseldorf. “For now, companies are still shielded by high
profit margins, but stagnation or recession in Europe, which is
still the largest export market, will also hurt our growth.”  Ifo’s measure of current conditions fell to 116.7 from
117.9, while a gauge of executives’ expectations retreated to 97
from 97.9. The euro declined after the report before recovering
to trade little changed at $1.3740 at 10:50 a.m. in  Frankfurt .  ‘Downward Spiral’  French business confidence declined for a fourth straight
month in October, national statistics office Insee said today,
amid concern that the debt crisis and slowing global growth will
crimp demand.  “It supports the view that the  euro zone  is heading for a
modest recession,” said  Holger Schmieding , chief economist at
Joh Gossler Berenberg & Co in London. The region “is trapped in
a downward spiral ” and “needs a circuit breaker,” he said.  While  Germany ’s Bundesbank on Oct. 17 predicted “strong”
growth in the third quarter due to a rebound in industrial
production and private consumption, it said the outlook has
deteriorated.  Germany’s top economic institutes on Oct. 13 cut their 2012
forecast for growth by more than half, though they said  Europe ’s
largest economy will probably avert a recession. Growth will
slow to 0.8 percent next year from 2.9 percent in 2011, they
said in a bi-annual report commissioned by the government. In
April, the group forecast 2 percent growth for 2012.  ‘Bank Crisis’  Vossloh AG (VOS) , a German manufacturer of railroad equipment,
cut its full-year sales forecast on Sept. 29, citing slower
business in  China  and a “sharp reduction” in orders from
southern Europe. Deutsche Bank AG on Oct. 4 scrapped its profit
forecast and announced 500 job cuts and further writedowns on
Greek bond holdings.  “Since the debt crisis has now become a bank crisis, the
chances of recession are much higher,” Tobias Blattner, an
economist at Daiwa International in  London , told Ken Prewitt on
Bloomberg Radio’s “The First Word.” “We’re expecting a
technical recession at the beginning of next year.”  Some 17 months after Greece was first bailed out by euro-
area nations, governments are still struggling to find a lasting
solution to a crisis that has since engulfed Ireland and
Portugal and is now threatening Italy and  Spain .  French-German Split  A French-German split over the  European Central Bank ’s role
in a rescue plan threatens to stymie progress on delivering the
comprehensive strategy demanded by global leaders.  France  favors
creating a bank out of the region’s rescue fund, allowing it to
boost its financial clout by borrowing from the ECB -- a
proposal that Germany rejects.  The crisis has made banks wary of lending to each other.
Banks yesterday parked 188 billion euros ($258 billion) with the
Frankfurt-based ECB overnight, up from 182 billion euros the
previous day.  Rising employment may help shield the German economy from
turmoil and bolster consumer demand. German unemployment
declined more than economists forecast in September, pushing the
jobless rate to 6.9 percent, the lowest since the country’s
reunification two decades ago.  Thomas Lindner, head of Germany’s VDMA machine makers’
association, said on Oct. 18 that the industry is struggling to
find enough skilled workers and forecast plant and machinery
output will increase 4 percent next year.  SAP AG (SAP) , the world’s
largest maker of business-management software, on Oct. 14
reported third-quarter earnings that beat analysts’ estimates.  “Germany is still one of the stronger economies in Europe,
but if leaders don’t find a solution to the crisis pretty
rapidly, it will suffer,” said  Aline Schuiling , an economist at
ABN Amro Bank NV in Amsterdam.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  