-- 
German Bunds Fall on Concern Bailout Costs to Increase; Spanish Bonds Gain

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-10-21T15:23:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/german-bunds-decline-amid-european-debt-summit-uncertainty.html
Bunds fell the most in two weeks
amid speculation European leaders are planning a 940 billion-
euro ($1.29 trillion) package to fight the debt crisis, fueling
concern German taxpayers will have to fund increased bailouts.  Bunds pared a weekly gain as stocks rose on optimism the
plan will contain Europe’s debt woes, damping demand for safer
securities. Europe’s finance ministers are meeting today before
euro-area leaders gather for summits on Oct. 23 and Oct. 26 to
work on a durable solution. Spanish and Italian bonds gained as
the  European Central Bank  was said to buy the securities. French
bonds extended a weekly decline.  “Someone is going to have to pay the bill for an expanded
bailout and that responsibility will fall on the bigger
countries like  Germany ,” said Niels From, chief analyst at
Nordea Bank AB in Copenhagen. “Bunds are also coming under a
bit of pressure because equities are performing quite well. The
equity market seems to be quite hopeful that something positive
is going to come out of the weekend summit.”  The 10-year bund yield rose 11 basis points, or 0.11
percentage point, to 2.10 percent at 4:11 p.m. London time,
after climbing as much as 12 basis points, the most since Oct.
5. The 2.25 percent bond due September 2021 fell 0.95, or 9.5
euros per 1,000-euro face amount, to 101.29. The two-year rate
increased six basis points to 0.65 percent.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index gained 2.2 percent and the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 1.5 percent on speculation
European officials are moving closer to containing the regional
debt crisis.  Enhanced Fund  With President  Barack Obama  stressing the “urgency” of a
fix, divisions between Germany and France festered as finance
ministers arrived in Brussels for the start of the anti-crisis
marathon. As a first step, they are set to approve releasing the
next aid payment for Greece.  The talks “will be tough and the situation is serious,”
Dutch Finance Minister  Jan Kees de Jager  said. “We really need
to step up efforts, make extra reforms, extra cuts and strict
agreements on budgets.”  The temporary 440 billion-euro European Financial Stability
Facility has already spent or committed about 160 billion euros,
including loans to  Greece  that will run for up to 30 years. A
consensus is now emerging among European leaders that it should
be merged instead of replaced with the planned permanent
European Stability Mechanism in mid-2013, a fund which will hold
500 billion euros, the people said.  ECB Buying  The ECB bought small amounts of Spanish and Italian
government debt today, according to two people with direct
knowledge of the transactions, who asked not to be identified
because the deals are confidential.  Spanish 10-year bonds snapped a nine-day decline, with
yields falling five basis points to 5.48 percent. Italy’s 10-
year rate dropped 12 basis points to 5.90 percent.  French bonds fell on concern the expanded bailout fund will
put extra pressure on the country’s finances.  “ France  is the least able to afford the cost of an
expanded bailout package among AAA nations,” said Lyn Graham- Taylor, a fixed-income strategist at Rabobank International in
London. “They’ll probably eventually lose their AAA rating.”  France’s 10-year yield climbed 10 basis points to 3.25
percent. The spread over similar-maturity bunds narrowed for the
first time in seven days, shrinking to 114 basis points, after
earlier reaching 121 basis points, the widest since 1992 based
on closing Bloomberg generic prices.  S&P Warning  Standard & Poor’s today followed a warning from Moody’s
Investors Service earlier this week that France risks losing its
top  credit rating . France may have its AAA ranking downgraded
while  Spain ,  Italy , Ireland and  Portugal  may also be reduced by
one or two levels in either of New York-based S&P’s two stress
scenarios, the ratings firm said in a report today.  Yields on benchmark Greek bonds due June 2020 rose 14 basis
points to 23.03 percent. Two-year rates climbed 43 basis points
to 77.27 percent.  German bonds have returned 7.2 percent this year, according
to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. French debt gained 2.9 percent,
and Treasuries rose 7.9 percent. Italian bonds lost 4.7 percent,
even as the European Central Bank bought the securities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in  London  
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  