-- 
MGIC Leads Mortgage Insurer Slump as Loss Widens on Claims

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-10-21T15:35:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/mgic-posts-fifth-straight-loss-as-u-s-housing-slump-deepens.html
MGIC Investment Corp. (MTG)  led a mortgage
insurer slump after reporting a wider third-quarter loss as the
cost of claims from mortgage delinquencies rose.  MGIC, the largest U.S. insurer of home loans, declined 18
cents, or 7.4 percent, to $2.26 at 11:27 a.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. No. 2  Radian Group Inc. (RDN)  fell 6.5
percent to $2.46.  PMI Group Inc. (PMI) , the Walnut Creek, California-
based mortgage insurer that was forced by regulators to cease
writing coverage after exceeding statutory risk-to-capital
levels, slumped 7 percent.  The worst U.S. housing crash in seven decades has pressured
mortgage insurers like MGIC, Radian and PMI, which pay lenders
when homeowners default and foreclosures fail to recoup costs.
 Home prices  fell 3.3 percent in the 12 months through July as a
U.S. unemployment rate of more than 9 percent sapped the
confidence of potential home buyers.  “These companies obviously went through the biggest
recession since the Great Depression, and clearly their capital
levels have been depleted,” said  Matthew Howlett , an analyst at
Macquarie Group Ltd., before results were released. “They’re up
against a wall and they need things to begin going right for
them.” He rates MGIC and Radian “outperform.”  MGIC’s third-quarter net loss widened to $165.2 million, or
82 cents a share, from $51.5 million, or 26 cents, in the year-
earlier period, the Milwaukee-based company said today in a
statement. The insurer, which has been unprofitable for 16 of
the last 17 quarters, had plunged 76 percent this year through
yesterday in  New York . Radian, based in Philadelphia, had
declined 67 percent and PMI 89 percent  Claims Cost  MGIC’s cost of claims from mortgage defaults rose to $462.7
million from $384.6 million in the year-earlier period, as more
homeowners fell behind on payments and claims were made on
previously disclosed delinquencies.  The insurer spent $1.85 on claims and expenses at its
mortgage business for every dollar it collected in premiums in
the first quarter. That’s up from $1.46 in the year-earlier
period. Policy sales slipped about 8 percent to $255.7 million
from $279 million a year earlier.  “Economic growth remains slow,” Federal Reserve policy
makers said Sept. 21 as they announced a plan to bring down
longer-term lending rates. Unemployment has exceeded 8 percent
since February 2009, the longest stretch of such elevated
joblessness since monthly records began in 1948.  MGIC’s book value per share, a measure of assets minus
liabilities used by analysts and investors, slipped to $6.90
from $7.52 as of June 30.  Risk Ratios  The risk-to-capital ratio rose to 22.2-to-1 from 20.4-to-1
at the end of June. The regulatory maximum set by some state
watchdogs is 25-to-1. MGIC is applying to extend waivers from
states that allow it to keep writing business if fails to meet
 capital requirements . The agreements generally expire at the end
of this year.  “I don’t see an issue with getting those waivers,” Chief
Executive Officer Curt Culver said on a conference call today
with analysts.  New accounting rules being weighed by the  National
Association of Insurance Commissioners  may eliminate a $133
million benefit from deferred tax assets when calculating
statutory capital, the company said in today’s statement.  Mortgage insurers probably won’t “be able to handle a
sustained increase in delinquencies” that would come with
another recession, Howlett said.  About 82 insured borrowers caught up on overdue payments in
August for every 100 who defaulted, compared with a so-called
cure ratio of 91 a year earlier, according to the most recent
industrywide  data  from the Mortgage Insurance Companies of
America. Borrowers tend to catch up on loan payments in the
second quarter after receiving tax refunds then slip behind in
the last six months of the year, said Howlett.  Radian is scheduled to report third-quarter results next
month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  