-- 
Goldman Sachs Sued Over ‘Conflict’ in Planned $21 Billion El Paso Takeover

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-10-21T19:52:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/goldman-sachs-sued-for-role-in-el-paso-s-21-billion-takeover.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  was sued by
a pension fund that alleges the New York-based investment bank
had a conflict of interest in its role as adviser in the planned
$21 billion purchase of  El Paso Corp. (EP)  by Kinder Morgan Inc.  Goldman Sachs, which owns about 20 percent of Kinder
Morgan, steered El Paso directors to sell at a price below its
full value, earning larger advisory fees than if the company had
completed a planned spinoff, lawyers for the Louisiana Municipal
Police Employees Retirement System said in the complaint.
Goldman Sachs also stands to see its Kinder Morgan investment
increase in value, according to the complaint.  “The El Paso board impermissibly heeded the advice of its
conflicted financial adviser Goldman Sachs and abandoned a
previously announced spinoff of its exploration and production
business in favor of a low premium sale to competitor  Kinder
Morgan ,” lawyers for the retirement system, an investor in El
Paso, said in the complaint filed yesterday in Delaware Chancery
Court in Wilmington.  In addition to Goldman Sachs, the complaint also names
individual El Paso directors and Kinder Morgan.  While Morgan Stanley served as financial adviser on the
sale, Goldman’s presence “tainted the entire process,” lawyers
for the retirement fund said in the complaint. Goldman continued
to act as financial adviser on “related matters” in connection
with the transaction, the pension fund said in the complaint,
citing the companies’ joint press statement.  Fiduciary Duty  Goldman Sachs is accused of aiding and abetting a breach of
fiduciary duty by El Paso directors. In addition to seeking
unspecified damages, the pension fund is asking a judge to order
the directors to give “full and fair consideration” to any
alternative offers for the company.  The retirement fund also faulted El Paso directors for
agreeing to an inadequate deal in light of the surge in demand
for pipelines, the pricing power Kinder Morgan will garner as a
result of the transaction and the premiums paid for past energy
deals. The board “virtually eliminated” the prospect of
a superior offer by agreeing to unreasonable deal protection
devices including a no-shop clause and a punitive $650 million
termination fee, according to the complaint.  Andrea Rachman , a spokeswoman for Goldman Sachs, declined
to comment on the lawsuit except to say that the bank’s
representatives on Kinder Morgan’s board recused themselves from
the deal process.  Larry Pierce, a spokesman for Houston-based Kinder Morgan,
said in an e-mail that the company doesn’t comment on pending
litigation. Richard Wheatley, a spokesman for El Paso, also
declined to comment.  Cash and Stock  El Paso, based in Houston, said Oct. 16 it would be bought
for cash and stock to create the largest natural-gas pipeline
network in the U.S. The company was sued earlier this week by a
shareholder over claims the deal undervalues it shares.  Goldman Sachs’s private-equity arm was one of  Richard
Kinder ’s co-investors when he took his company private in 2007.
The firm remains one of the largest Kinder Morgan shareholders
and has two representatives on the board.  Richard Kinder kicked off the takeover talks in late August
when he approached El Paso’s Douglas Foshee, said Joe Hollier, a
Kinder Morgan spokesman.  That disrupted a previous plan by El Paso, announced in
May, to spin off its exploration and production assets to
shareholders.  Goldman Sachs’s Steve Daniel had been advising El Paso on
the spinoff. For the talks with Kinder Morgan, El Paso instead
turned to a Morgan Stanley team.  The case is Louisiana Municipal Police Employees Retirement
System v. Braniff, CA6960, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  