-- 
Goldman Appoints Agran, Shenouda as Global Co-Heads of Commodities Trading

-- B y   L a r s   P a u l s s o n
-- 
2011-10-21T13:45:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/goldman-sachs-names-agran-shenouda-global-co-heads-of-commodities-trading.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  appointed
Greg Agran and Magid Shenouda as co-heads of commodities
trading, according to a company memo obtained by Bloomberg News.  The memo, dated Oct. 18, was confirmed today by Sophie
Bullock, a company spokeswoman based in  London .  Agran and Shenouda are based in  New York  and London,
respectively. They replace Jeffrey Resnick, global head of
commodities trading, who decided to retire at the end of this
year after 18 years at the Wall Street firm, the memo said.  Goldman Sachs generated $3.6 billion of revenue from its
commodities business in 2006 and $3.4 billion in 2007, according
to documents released this year by the U.S. Senate  Permanent
Subcommittee  on Investigations. Goldman likely has a 15 percent
to 20 percent market share in commodities, which generated
industry revenue of $6 billion to $7 billion last year,
according to estimates from  Glenn Schorr , an analyst at Nomura
Holdings Inc. in New York.  Agran is currently head of U.S. natural gas and power
trading and head of global commodities principal investing. He
joined Goldman Sachs in 1991 as an analyst in New York and was
named managing director in 1999 and partner in 2006, according
to the memo.  Shenouda is the bank’s head of European crude oil and
products trading and European gas and power trading. He joined
Goldman Sachs in 1999 as a vice president in London, after
working as a physical fuel oil trader at independent energy
trader Trafigura Beheer BV. He was responsible for expanding
Goldman’s physical commodities business, including expanding its
coal, freight, and emissions franchise, the memo said. He was
promoted to managing director in 2005.  Goldman Sachs competes with other banks in commodities,
including  Morgan Stanley (MS) , which also has a 15 to 20 percent
market share, according to Schorr at Nomura.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lars Paulsson in London at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  