-- 
Goldman Sachs Asks New York Court to Dismiss Allstate Suit

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-10-21T22:08:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/goldman-sachs-asks-n-y-court-to-dismiss-allstate-lawsuit.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  asked a
judge in New York state court to dismiss a lawsuit filed by
Allstate Insurance Co. over the alleged fraudulent sale of
residential mortgage-backed securities.  The Northbrook, Illinois-based insurer sued New York-based
Goldman Sachs in New York State Supreme Court in  Manhattan  on
Aug. 15 over the sale of more than $100 million worth of
residential mortgage-backed securities, asking for damages
including the lost market value of the investments.  Allstate filed the lawsuit and seven similar complaints
against various issuers and underwriters of residential
mortgage-backed securities, using “generalities and unsupported
assumptions” to recoup investment losses on certificates it
bought in five offerings in 2006, Goldman Sachs said in court
documents filed today.  “Despite its financial sophistication and expertise
(including in the housing market, where it is a leading
insurer), Allstate now suffers from buyer’s remorse and has sued
the counterparties with which it traded at arm’s length,
claiming in separate actions that each of the eight sellers of
RMBS misled it as to characteristics of the securities,”
Goldman Sachs said in the court documents.  Allstate has also sued lenders including JPMorgan Chase &
Co., Credit Suisse Group AG, Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill
Lynch unit, Citigroup Inc. and Deutsche Bank AG over residential
mortgage-backed securities.  The investments, pools of home loans securitized into
bonds, were a central part of the housing bubble that helped
send the U.S. into the biggest recession since the 1930s. The
housing market collapsed, and the crisis swept up lenders and
investment banks as the market for the securities evaporated.  The case is Allstate Insurance Co. v. Goldman, Sachs & Co.,
652273/2011, New York state  Supreme Court  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  