-- 
Google Follows Microsoft Playbook in Boosting Lobbying Spending

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t   a n d   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 
2011-10-21T04:01:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/google-follows-microsoft-playbook-in-boosting-lobbying-spending.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , the subject of a
Federal Trade Commission investigation, is following Microsoft
Corp. in ratcheting up its lobbying.  Google spent $5.9 million from Jan. 1 to Sept. 30, a 51
percent increase over the $3.9 million spent during the same
period a year earlier, according to reports filed yesterday with
the House and Senate.  Mountain View , California-based Google has doubled its
lobbying spending in the last two years and this year began an
expansion of its political action committee, which is used to
give donations to candidates. Both of these developments come as
the owner of the world’s most popular search engine faces
scrutiny from both federal regulators and U.S. lawmakers.  The actions are similar to those taken by Redmond,
Washington-based Microsoft, one of Google’s biggest competitors,
after it faced a Justice Department antitrust suit and
congressional hearings in the 1990s.  “When scrutiny arrived, Microsoft chose to ramp up its
lobbying presence and let the professionals handle its
concerns,” said  Rogan Kersh , associate dean of  New York 
University’s Wagner School, who tracks lobbying. “That’s the
blueprint that Google is successfully following.”  Pitching Google’s View  The lobbying expenditures are part of an effort to give
Congress and the Obama administration Google’s view on an array
of issues, said Samantha Smith, a company spokeswoman.  “We want to help policy makers understand our business and
the work we do to keep the Internet open, to encourage
innovation and to create economic opportunity,” she said in a
statement. “Lobbying is a part of that process.”  Google first registered to lobby in Washington in June 2007
and spent $2.9 million in the first nine months of 2009.
Microsoft spent $5 million during the same period that year and
has remained at about that level, spending $5.2 million during
the first nine months of 2010 and $5.5 million this year.  “We see this transition happen in every sector,” Kersh
said. There’s “an initial resistance to lobbying followed by a
recognition that whatever your business model, you have to have
an active lobbying presence, both to stave off regulation and to
gain benefits from government.”  Google’s lobbying team now includes Richard Gephardt, a
former House Democratic leader; Kyle Simmons, former chief of
staff to Senate Republican leader  Mitch McConnell ; and Charles Black Jr., the former Republican presidential adviser who now is
chairman of the Washington-based Prime Policy Group lobbying
firm. All were hired in June.  Hiring Spree  The company’s hiring spree “shows how concerned they are
with regulatory matters,” said Benjamin Schachter, an Internet
analyst at Macquarie Capital in New York. “They’ve grown up and
realized they have to have their voice heard so they’re not
backed into a corner.”  An enhanced lobbying presence won’t affect the
investigation at the FTC, whose probes have been resistant to
political pressure, said William Blumenthal, the agency’s former
general counsel.  “It is extraordinarily rare when you’d see political
intervention have a significant effect on the outcome of the
investigation,” said Blumenthal, chairman of the U.S. antitrust
group at Clifford Chance LLP in  Washington .  Microsoft Probe  An increased lobbying presence didn’t shield Microsoft from
the Justice Department’s antitrust probe of the company. The
government pressured Microsoft into accepting a nine-year
consent decree to stop using its monopoly Windows operating
system for personal computers to quash competition. The decree
expired in May.  In line with Microsoft’s past spending pattern, Google also
increased the amount of money it spends on politics. Its PAC,
which began in 2006, raised $570,115 from employees during the
first six months of 2011, 12 times greater than the $47,769
raised during the same period in 2009,  Federal Election
Commission  records show. Microsoft’s PAC took in $546,784 from
January to June, slightly more than the $534,530 raised two
years earlier.  Microsoft experienced a similar fundraising jump in 1998,
the year the  Justice Department   filed its antitrust suit . Its
PAC took in $534,050 that year, compared with $46,000 two years
earlier, FEC reports show.  Antitrust Allegations  The FTC earlier this year began investigating whether
Google has violated antitrust laws by unfairly ranking search
results to favor its own businesses and increasing rivals’ ad
rates, a person familiar with the probe said.  The agency also is examining if Google is using its control
of the Android mobile operating system to discourage smart-phone
makers from using rivals’ applications and services, said the
person, who wasn’t authorized to comment.  Last month, Google Chairman  Eric Schmidt  testified before a
Senate Judiciary antitrust subcommittee hearing that his search
engine doesn’t discriminate against competitors.  The Justice Department Antitrust Division is reviewing
Google’s proposed $12.5 billion acquisition of Motorola Mobility
Holdings Inc. and its $400 million purchase of Internet-
advertising company Admeld Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 