-- 
Greek Sustainability Needs More Investor Losses, Troika Says

-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 
2011-10-21T18:41:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/greek-debt-sustainability-needs-ambitious-private-sector-help.html
Bondholders will need to take deeper
losses on Greek holdings to make the country’s debt sustainable,
according to a report on the country’s finances by international
creditors.  The financial situation in  Greece  “has taken a turn for
the worse” since the last review in June, said the report of
the so-called troika dated today. The previous assessment led to
a July agreement that called for investors to take a 21 percent
reduction in their holdings’ net present value.  European officials are now considering options with
writedowns of as much as 50 percent. Euro-region leaders awaited
the troika’s findings as the basis for negotiating deeper
investor involvement in reducing Greek debt, an aide to German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  told reporters today in Berlin.  Germany  wants a voluntary agreement with banks by an Oct.
26 summit, the second of two leaders’ meetings in four days, the
official said, speaking on terms of anonymity in line with
government rules.  “Large, long-term, and sufficiently generous official
support will be necessary for Greece to remain current on its
debt service payments and to facilitate a declining debt
trajectory,” said the report.  The assessment by the European Central Bank, the
 International Monetary Fund  and the European Commission,
obtained by Bloomberg News, said more government aid will be
needed and deeper private-sector involvement, or PSI, as is now
being considered by European leaders, “also has a vital role in
establishing the sustainability of Greece’s debt,” it said.  Debt Load  Giving scenarios using discount bonds with an assumed yield
of 6 percent and no collateral, Greek debt can be brought to
just above 120 percent of gross domestic product by the end of
2020 if 50 percent discounts are applied.  “Given still-delayed  market access , large scale additional
official financing requirements would remain, estimated at some
114 billion euros ($158 billion),” it said. “To get the debt
down further would require a larger private sector
contribution” of at least 60 percent to reduce debt below 110
percent of GDP by 2020.  The  European Central Bank  was opposed to inclusion of the
bond-loss scenarios in the report, according to a footnote in
the report.  Banks are resisting taking losses deeper than those agreed
to in July. Among swaps being considered by EU officials now is
one with no collateral of any kind.  Swap Options  Other plans involve an exchange with a 50 percent reduction
in net present value, or upfront bond exchanges into either AAA
rated bonds from the European Financial Stability Facility or
new 30-year Greek government debt, according to people familiar
with the matter. Upfront exchanges could involve a 50 percent
discount off face value.  Creditors’ participation needs to remain voluntary,
Austrian Finance Minister Maria Fekter told reporters Oct. 18.
“A forced restructuring means default, in which credit default
swaps are triggered, and that means billions around the world
that have to be financed,” she said. “Everybody wants to avoid
that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  