-- 
Groupon Initial Offer May Value Founder’s Stake at $2.3B

-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s ,   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   A r i   L e v y
-- 
2011-10-22T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/groupon-ipo-may-value-stake-held-by-chairman-lefkofsky-s-at-2-3-billion.html
Groupon Inc. founder and Chairman
Eric Lefkofsky may parlay a $1 million check to co-founder
 Andrew Mason  four years ago into a stake worth $2.3 billion when
the daily-deal site sells shares to the public next month.  Lefkofsky owns 129.2 million common shares, according to
the company’s prospectus, at least double the amount owned by
Mason or fellow co-founder Bradley Keywell. New Enterprise
Associates, the earliest venture backer, may see its $10 million
investment grow more than 100-fold, to $1.57 billion.  Groupon’s market value would be about $11.4 billion
following the IPO, less than half the size the company
reportedly discussed with bankers earlier this year. Still, a
decision to reject a buyout bid in 2010 from Google Inc. that
would have valued the Chicago-based company at $6 billion may
have paid off. At the high end of the  price range , the founders’
combined 34 percent stake would be worth $3.9 billion on paper.  “We’re not where we were a few months ago, but we’re still
talking about double what Google offered to pay,” said Anupam Palit, senior equity analyst at New York-based GreenCrest
Capital Management LLC, which researches private companies.  Mason’s stake in Groupon may be valued at as much as $845
million, while Keywell’s share may reach $742 million, according
to a regulatory filing yesterday. Investors that have put money
into Groupon since its inception have paid an average of 31
cents a share for their stakes, the filing shows. The high end
of the $16 to $18 offering price range implies an average 58-
fold gain for current holders.  Venture Backing  Venture capitalists have led more than $1.12 billion in
investments in Groupon since 2008.  New Enterprise Associates ,
which owns 87.5 million shares, paid $4.8 million in 2008. That
investment valued the startup at about $30 million, filings
show. The firm, which has offices in Chevy Chase,  Maryland , and
 Menlo Park ,  California , invested another $10 million in November
2009, and received a $4.9 million dividend from the company the
same month, according to the prospectus.  Accel Partners , with 33.2 million shares, may see its stake
valued at as much as $598 million, according to the prospectus.
 Palo Alto , California-based Accel led a $30 million round in
December 2009, in which New Enterprise Associates also bought
shares, Groupon said in a statement at the time. Accel was the
first venture investor in Facebook Inc.  Groupon’s implied market value, in addition to being almost
twice as much as Google sought to pay for the company in
December 2010, is more than double the implied valuation in the
latest round of financing.  Voting Power  In January, Groupon raised $950 million from investors
including Andreessen Horowitz,  Battery Ventures ,  Greylock
Partners , Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers and private-equity
investor  Silver Lake . That valued Groupon at about $4.75
billion, people with knowledge of the matter said at the time.  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News, is an
investor in Andreessen Horowitz.  While the three co-founders will collectively own more than
a third of Groupon’s common stock, they will also share more
than 58 percent of the voting power by virtue of the Class B
shares they own, which carry 150 votes apiece. Class A
stockholders get a single vote per share.  Groupon traces its roots back to a $1 million check
Lefkofsky gave to Mason in 2007 to convince him to drop out of
graduate school and found a company called The Point, a site
that helps people raise funds and build petition lists for
activism. That inspired Mason to try another site, Groupon,
based around the idea of collective buying.  While Internet companies have seen their shares surge
following U.S. IPOs this year, and LinkedIn Corp.’s stock is
almost double its offering price, they have not all held their
value. Online music provider Pandora Media Inc.’s stock has
dropped 5.4 percent since its IPO, while Yandex NV, the owner of
 Russia ’s most popular search engine, has trimmed its gains to 6
percent. At one point, Yandex had climbed as much as 55 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in  New York  at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas Macmillan in New York at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  