-- 
Groupon Seeks $11.4 Billion Market Value in Initial Offering

-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 
2011-10-21T16:48:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/groupon-sees-initial-public-offering-price-of-between-16-and-18-a-share.html
Groupon Inc., the largest online-
coupon site, is seeking a valuation of $11.4 billion in its U.S.
initial public offering, less than half the $25 billion it
considered earlier this year after internal missteps and stock-
market swings left some investors leery of the stock.  The Chicago-based company is offering 30 million shares of
Class A common stock at $16 to $18 apiece, a regulatory filing
today showed. At the high end of the range, Groupon would raise
$540 million, compared with the $750 million it filed to raise
in June. The total valuation is based on 632.8 million
outstanding common shares after the offer.  The lower valuation reflects waning investor demand, said
 Michael Holland , chairman of Holland & Co. Since filing to go
public, Groupon has drawn regulatory scrutiny, restated results
and lost executives. The company delayed plans to pitch the
offering to investors in September as stock markets sank and it
needed time to address regulators’ questions about an
unconventional accounting method, people with knowledge of the
matter said then.  “Investor perception of Groupon’s attractiveness has
deteriorated significantly, as evidenced by the price,” said
Holland, whose New York firm oversees more than $4 billion.
“It’s not a favored time to be coming to market with an IPO, so
if they want to persist and come to market, they’re going to
have to meet buyers’ demands.”  Meetings With Investors  The company is set to meet with investors as soon as the
week of Oct. 24 to gauge demand for the IPO, people familiar
with the matter have said. The offering is set for completion on
Nov. 3, Bloomberg data show.  Groupon’s IPO would be only the fourth in the U.S. since
the beginning of September as slumping stocks and high
volatility made it difficult to go public. Still, companies have
continued to file for offerings this year, leading to the
biggest U.S. backlog in a decade as of the end of last quarter,
according to  Renaissance Capital LLC , the Greenwich,
Connecticut-based IPO research and investment firm.  The IPO will leave almost 5 percent of Groupon’s common
shares public as the coupon provider follows Internet companies
including LinkedIn Corp. and Pandora Media Inc. in offering less
than one-tenth of their stock to the public. A so-called “low
float” limits the amount of shares available to meet investor
demand, boosting the stock price.  Price to Sales  The high end of Groupon’s offering range would value the
company at almost 9 times sales over the last 12 months,
calculated using financial results disclosed in the filing.
That’s less than half the price-to-sales multiple of about 24
for LinkedIn, Bloomberg data show. Shares of the  Mountain View ,
California-based professional-networking site have almost
doubled since LinkedIn debuted in May.  Pandora Media Inc., the online music provider that went
public in June, is valued at about 12 times sales over the past
four quarters, Bloomberg data show.  Groupon’s value may be difficult for investors to predict
“given it’s a new business model where long-term profitability
and margin levels are unclear,” said Jack Neele, a  fund manager 
at Robeco Groep NV, which had the equivalent of about $208
billion  under management  at the end of last year.  All of the shares in the offering are being sold by
Groupon, which will use the estimated net proceeds of about $479
million, its filing shows. Groupon may use the cash for
acquisitions, the filing said.  Early Discussions  Executives met with bankers to discuss an IPO valuing the
company at as much as $25 billion, people with knowledge of the
discussions said in March. Groupon announced a $950 million
round of financing, including venture-capital and private-equity
investment, after rejecting a $6 billion takeover bid from
Google Inc. in December.  Groupon reported revenue of $430.2 million in the three
months through September, an increase of 9.6 percent from the
quarter that ended in June. That represents slower growth than
in the second quarter, when sales rose 33 percent sequentially.  The net loss in the third quarter narrowed to $10.6 million
from $49 million a year earlier, according to the filing. The
net loss in the nine months ended Sept. 30 was $238.1 million.  The number of subscribers to Groupon’s e-mail list climbed
24 percent during the third quarter to 142.9 million, the filing
showed. The company said a total of 29.5 million people had
purchased its coupons as of the end of September.  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN)  are leading Groupon’s offering. The stock will trade on
the Nasdaq Stock Market under the symbol GRPN.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Douglas Macmillan in New York at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  