-- 
Iliad’s Niel, Goldman Sachs Said to Team on Orange Swiss Bid

-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-10-21T13:50:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/iliad-s-xavier-niel-goldman-sachs-said-to-team-up-for-orange-suiss-bid.html
Iliad SA (ILD) ’s billionaire founder
Xavier Niel teamed up with  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s private-
equity unit to bid for  France Telecom SA (FTE) ’s Swiss mobile-phone
unit, according to a person familiar with the situation.  The 50-50 joint offer for Orange Suisse is being made
through one of Niel’s personal holding companies, rather than
Iliad, the broadband provider in which he is the majority
shareholder, the person said, declining to be identified because
the talks are private. The Swiss unit could fetch about 2
billion euros ($2.8 billion), people with knowledge of the
matter said last month.  France Telecom is exiting Switzerland as part of a plan to
re-orient its business toward fast-growing markets in the  Middle
East  and Africa. The company this week agreed to buy Congo-China
Telecom, the fourth-largest mobile operator in the Democratic
Republic of Congo. The Swiss sale has also drawn interest from
Egyptian billionaire  Naguib Sawiris  and private-equity firms
including Apax Partners LLP and EQT Partners, people familiar
with the matter said last month.  Goldman Sachs declined to comment. Les Echos reported
earlier today that Niel had bid for Orange Suisse with
assistance from the firm.  French Competition  France Telecom Chief Executive Officer Stephane Richard
today said he aims to sell the Swiss operation by the end of
this year. The company is also targeting its Austrian and
Portuguese units for disposal. The former French phone monopoly
is under pressure at home due in part to Iliad, which is
entering the mobile market next year with a pledge to drive down
prices that are higher than the European average.  France  Telecom shares traded 1.6 percent higher at 12.82
euros as of 3:46 p.m. in Paris. The stock has declined 18
percent this year as competition and regulatory changes cut
growth.  Niel, whose stake in Iliad is worth about 2.9 billion
euros, has used his fortune to become one of France’s most
prolific venture capitalists, putting about 50 million euros a
year into young technology companies. This year he and two other
French Internet executives, vente-privee.com founder  Jacques-
Antoine Granjon  and Meetic.com founder Marc Simoncini, opened a
school in central Paris to train aspiring digital entrepreneurs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Paris at   mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 