-- 
Impax, Infineon, Samsung, Algae Farm: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-10-21T11:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/impax-infineon-samsung-algae-farm-intellectual-property.html
Impax Laboratories Inc. (IPXL)  said it
settled patent litigation with  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  and its
Fournier Laboratories Ireland Ltd. unit, permitting Impax to
sell a generic version of the cholesterol drug TriLipix as early
as 2013.  Impax, based in Hayward, California, may sell delayed-
release capsules of TriLipix starting July 15, 2013, “under
certain circumstances in the settlement agreement” that weren’t
spelled out in a regulatory filing made yesterday. Otherwise,
Impax may offer generic versions in 45-milligram or 135-
milligram doses on Jan. 1, 2014, the filing said.  TriLipix reduces cholesterol and fatty acids called
triglycerides in the blood. The drug, whose chemical name is
choline fenofibrate, is a delayed-release version of Abbott’s
TriCor medicine. Sales of TriLipix and TriCor were $963 million
in the U.S. in the first nine months of the year, Abbott said in
an earnings statement Oct. 19.  The agreement “allows Abbott to obtain certainty for our
product and avoid costly litigation around our patent,” said
 Scott Stoffel , a spokesman for  Abbott Park , Illinois-based
Abbott.  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) , the world’s biggest
generic-drugmaker, plans to begin selling a generic version of
TriCor in July under an earlier lawsuit settlement with Abbott. 
The case is Abbott Laboratories v. Impax Laboratories, 10-
cv-1322, U.S. District Court, District of  New Jersey  (Newark).  Infineon Says Successful in CIF Patent-Infringement Lawsuit  Infineon Technologies AG (IFX)  and Lantiq Deutschland GmbH
successfully defended themselves against patent-infringement
allegations by CIF Licensing LLC, a member of the General
Electric Group, Infineon said in a statement.  CIF filed an infringement case against  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) 
in October 2007. The allegations made in the suit were leveled
against Infineon’s Wireline unit, known today as Lantiq.  Under the settlement agreement CIF withdrew its
infringement suits and Infineon, Lantiq and other defendants
will receive royalty-free licenses to the four patents at issue
and their foreign counterparts, Infineon said.  Earlier, the German Federal Patent Court in Munich found
reasons to nullify two of the four patents, according to the
company statement.  Samsung May Adjust Products Depending on Lawsuits, Hong Says  Samsung Electronics Co., locked in a patent battle with
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  on four continents, said it may modify product
designs because of such legal issues.  “We always have a bunch of different designs, not only
hardware designs, but software designs, so if necessary we can
immediately provide the solutions,” Won-Pyo Hong, executive
vice president at Samsung, said at the All Things D conference
in  Hong Kong  yesterday.  Legal conflicts between the world’s two biggest makers of
smartphones and tablet computers have spread globally since
April when Apple claimed that Samsung’s Galaxy devices
“slavishly” copied the iPad and iPhone. Last week, an
Australian court blocked sales of the Galaxy Tab 10.1, while
Samsung filed motions in France, Italy and  Japan  seeking to ban
sales of Apple’s latest handset.  Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung lost a bid to sell its
newest tablet computer in  Australia  until after a patent dispute
with Apple is settled. Samsung had said it would scrap the
release of the Galaxy 10.1 if the injunction was granted because
missing the Christmas season would make the new tablet “dead”
by the time it reached market.  Samsung unveiled the Galaxy Nexus smartphone Oct. 19, the
first device running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Ice Cream Sandwich software.
The design of that product wasn’t affected by litigations with
Apple, Hong said.  Ice Cream Sandwich is the first major rollout for Android
since Google announced in August a $12.5 billion acquisition of
Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. That led to speculation that
Google might become a competitor to its own handset partners.  “We respect their decision,” Hong said. “We believe they
are going to maintain their strategy to remain open.”  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Urban Outfitters Removes ‘Navajo’ Listings After Protest  Urban Outfitters Inc. (URBN) , the Philadelphia-based retail chain,
removed the word “Navajo” from its online product listings
following a complaint from the Navajo Nation, the  Los Angeles 
Times reported.  The retailer had offered at least 20 products through its
website with “Navajo” in the name, including a fabric-wrapped
flask and women’s underpants, according to the newspaper.  Navajo Nation had sent Urban Outfitters a cease-and-desist
letter, pointing out that it held registrations for the
“Navajo” trademark, the Times reported.  The items previously labeled as “Navajo” are now
described on the company’s website as “printed,” according to
the Times.  Algae Farms Gets U.S. Trademark Registration for Company Name  Algae Farm Inc., a biofuels research company, completed the
registration of its name as a trademark with the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office.  The company, based in The Woodlands, Texas, changed its
name from Russell Industries Inc. in January. In addition to its
research on the production of algae-based oil, the company is
the majority owner of uranium-mining claims in Utah’s San Juan
County.  According to the patent office database, Algae Farm will
use the mark with chemical fuel-tank additives, chemicals for
use in the biochemical and chemical industries, oil exploration
and production, emollients used in toiletries and
pharmaceuticals, fertilizers and manures, and chemical compounds
prepared synthetically for use in the manufacture of cosmetics
and pharmaceuticals.  RIM Accused of Infringing Trademark With New OS Name  Research In Motion Ltd., the Waterloo, Ontario-based maker
of the Blackberry mobile device, was sent a cease-and-desist
letter by a New Mexico software company.  Basis International Ltd. objected to the name of a new
operating system RIM developed for the Blackberry. The use of
“BBX” as a name for the system “is causing great confusion
for the worldwide Basis community,” the Albuquerque-based
company said in a statement.  According to the database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office, Basis registered “BBX” as a trademark in July 2006.
The registration covers the use of the mark with computer
programs and associated documentation providing tools and
programming language to enable software developers to create and
prepare business, Internet and applications software.  Basis said its BBX system contains an “agnostic” language
that can run on numerous operating systems, Java platforms and
JavaScript-enabled browsers. The company said it is “fielding
numerous customer inquiries voicing their confusion” about the
RIM announcement.  The Canadian company said Oct. 18 that its new software
would be called Blackberry BBX. The system is designed to help
developers create applications for its PlayBook tablet computer
and new smartphones.  Basis Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Nico Sence said
in an e-mail that RIM has until Oct. 31 to respond to the cease-
and-desist request before his company files an infringement
suit.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Police Deny Infringing Copyright to Forensic Software Product  The West Yorkshire Police Department denied allegations it
infringed copyrights belonging to a company specializing in
collecting data from mobile telephones, the Yorkshire Post
 reported .  The U.K.’s Forensic Telecommunications Service claims the
police department developed its own software program to collect
information from the phones by using the company’s data,
according to the newspaper.  A lawyer representing the police said it was “mere
coincidence” that the police department’s software program was
similar to the FTS product, the newspaper reported.  Photographer’s Infringement Suit Against Rihanna Settled  A Los Angeles photographer’s copyright-infringement lawsuit
against the singer known as Rihanna and her recording label has
settled, according to a court filing.  David LaChapelle sued Universal Music Group’s Island Def
Jam unit, Black Dog Films Inc., and singer Robyn Rihanna Fenty
for copyright infringement in federal court in Manhattan in Feb.
14. He claimed the music video for Rihanna’s performance of
“S&M,” released in January, infringed the copyrights to a
series of his photos.  In the complaint, he said the storyboards on which the
video was based contained prints of his photos and were based on
his work. He said the music photos copied the “composition,
total concept, feel, tone, mood, theme, colors, props, settings,
decors, wardrobe and lighting” of his photos.  Because of the video’s “blatant” reliance on his work,
LaChapelle accused the defendants of deliberate infringement. He
also alleged that his trade dress was infringed and that Rhianna
and her label engaged in unfair competition.  In July, U.S. District Judge Shira A. Scheindlin rejected
LaChapelle’s claims for trade-dress infringement, unfair
competition and unjust enrichment. She did find that the
photographer’s copyrights were infringed.  Terms of the settlement weren’t disclosed in the court
filing. The  BBC   reported  Oct. 19 that LaChapelle, who had sought
$1 million in damages, received an undisclosed sum in settlement
of the dispute.  LaChapelle was represented by  Debra Anne Mayer  of  Shatzkin
& Mayer PC  of  New York . Rihanna’s lawyers were  Brad David Rose ,
 Tom J. Ferber  and  Jacob Boyd Radcliff  of New York’s Pryor
Cashman LLP. Island Def Jam was represented by  Amanda Marie
Leith  and  Robert Penchina  of  Washington ’s Levine Sullivan Koch &
Schulz LLP.  The case is LaChapelle v. Fenty, 1:11-cv-00945, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Wedbush Lawsuit Says Ex-Employees Took Secrets to Liquidnet  Wedbush Securities Inc. sued two former employees and
trading platform Liquidnet Holdings Inc., accusing them of
taking customer lists, documents and disclosures from the firm.  The suit accuses New York-based Liquidnet, used by
institutional investors to buy and sell large blocks of shares,
and the ex-employees, Louis Kerner and Michael Silverstein, of
working together to take proprietary information from Wedbush in
order to start the same business at Liquidnet.  Liquidnet said on Oct. 17 that it hired Kerner to run a new
group focused on private companies, and that he would be joined
by Silverstein. Wedbush filed the lawsuit yesterday in New York
State Supreme Court in Manhattan.  “Kerner, Silverstein and Liquidnet engaged, and continue
to engage, in the premeditated taking and misappropriation of
certain of Wedbush’s most valuable trade secret and confidential
and proprietary information,” Wedbush said in the complaint.  Liquidnet received the lawsuit and is reviewing it closely,
Melissa Kanter, a spokeswoman for the company, said in an e-
mail. She declined to comment further on the complaint.  Wedbush is seeking unspecified compensatory damages. The
firm also asked for injunctions preventing the defendants from
using, disclosing or transmitting any records, documents or
information related to its clients, business, marketing
strategies, technical information or operations.  It also seeks to stop the defendants from using customer
data to compete with Wedbush, soliciting similar services to
current or former Wedbush clients and retaining any customer
data.  The case is Wedbush Securities Inc. v. Liquidnet Inc.,
652875/2011, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  IP Moves  Venable Expands Los Angeles IP Practice, Hires Greg Sater  Venable LLP hired Greg Sater for its IP litigation group,
the Baltimore-based firm said in a  statement .  Sater  joins from  Rutter Hobbs & Davidoff Inc.  of Los
Angeles. There he did work on behalf of direct-response
television advertisers, online marketers and other direct-to-
consumer marketers and retailers in connection with IP issues
and compliance with state and federal advertising regulations.
He has also represented entertainment companies.  Sater has an undergraduate degree from  Stanford University 
and a law degree from Harvard University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 