-- 
Indian Stocks Decline on Europe, Rate Concern; DLF, Larsen Lead

-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 
2011-10-21T12:01:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/india-stock-futures-swing-between-gains-losses-on-rates-europe.html
India ’s benchmark stock index had
the worst weekly loss in a month on speculation European policy
makers will struggle to reach a resolution and the country’s
central bank may persist with monetary tightening.  DLF Ltd., India’s biggest real estate developer, slid 2.5
percent after the market regulator said it would investigate a
complaint against an affiliate company. Larsen & Toubro Ltd.,
the largest engineering company, tumbled the most in a month
after it lowered its new order forecast. Tata Motors Ltd., the
owner of Jaguar Land Rover, dropped for a second day.  The BSE India Sensitive Index, or Sensex, fell 151.25, or
0.9 percent, to 16,785.64 at the 3:30 p.m. close in Mumbai. The
gauge lost 1.7 percent this week, the most since the five-day
period ended Sept. 23. The S&P CNX Nifty Index on the National
Stock Exchange of India Ltd. declined 0.8 percent to 5,049.95.
The BSE-200 Index retreated 0.9 percent.  “There’s some scope for disappointment over the Euro zone
plan,” Robert  John Parker , a senior adviser at Credit Suisse
Asset Management, said in an interview with Bloomberg UTV. “We
have still got a number of major obstacles to overcome.”  Europe  may combine temporary and permanent rescue funds to
unleash as much as 940 billion euros ($1.3 trillion) to fight
the crisis, according to two people familiar with the matter,
before a debt summit this weekend.  The  Reserve Bank  of India will increase rates on Oct. 25,
according to a Bloomberg survey, even as policy makers across
the world take steps to shield their economies from Europe’s
crisis and a faltering U.S. recovery.  “We may see one final round of interest-rate increases and
we have yet to see any improvement in inflation,” said Parker.  Orders Shrink  Larsen & Toubro retreated 3.6 percent to 1,335.3 rupees,
extending this year’s loss to 33 percent. The company reduced
its forecast for orders to 5 percent from 15 percent for the
year ending March 31, Chief Financial Officer Shankar Raman said
today. Net income for the three months ended Sept. 30 rose 4.3
percent, beating analysts’ estimates.  DLF shed 2.5 percent to 224.9 rupees.  Housing Development
Finance Corp. (HDFC) , the biggest mortgage lender, slid 1.8 percent to
633.4 rupees, extending yesterday’s 4.3 percent plunge.  Bharti
Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) , the largest cell-phone operator, fell 3.1 percent
to 378 rupees. Tata Motors fell 2.7 percent to 178.15 rupees.  The Sensex has plummeted 18 percent this year on concern
Europe’s debt crisis and slowing economic growth in the U.S. may
worsen the effects of the central bank’s record increases in
borrowing costs on corporate profits. Companies on the gauge
trade at 14.2 times estimated earnings, compared with 9.7 times
on the MSCI Emerging Markets Index.  Food Costs  A top economic adviser to Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  signaled the need for higher borrowing costs before next
week’s monetary policy decision as food inflation accelerated to
near a six-month high. Governor Duvvuri Subbarao has boosted
borrowing costs by 350 basis points since the start of 2010, the
fastest monetary tightening on record in India.  “The fact that inflation is triggered by food inflation or
supply-side constraints doesn’t mean that monetary policy
doesn’t have a role to play,” Chakravarthy Rangarajan, chairman
of the Prime Minister’s Economic Advisory Council, told
reporters in  New Delhi  yesterday.  India’s wholesale-price index climbed 9.72 percent in
September and averaged 9.6 percent in 2011, government data
show. Inflation was 7.3 percent in  Brazil , 7.2 percent in  Russia 
and 6.1 percent in  China  last month from a year ago.  Rupee Sinks  The rupee today weakened past the 50 per dollar level for
the first time in more than two years on speculation slowing
economic expansion and faster inflation will deter foreign
investment. The currency has declined 11 percent this year, the
worst performance among Asia’s 10 most-traded currencies.  “European investors invested a lot of capital in Asia when
the 2008 financial crisis eased and now there’s concern they
will pull this back,” said  Jonathan Cavenagh , senior currency
strategist with Westpac Banking Corp. in  Singapore . “India
stands to lose more than its peers as the country is running a
current-account deficit. The growth outlook has weakened and
inflation remains stubbornly high” in the region, he said.  India’s $1.7 trillion economy,  Asia ’s third-biggest, buys
more than 75 percent of its fuel needs from abroad, and imports
farm commodities including pulses, edible oils, natural rubber,
and some grades of steel. A weaker currency raises the cost of
importing raw materials.  Overseas funds bought a net 173 million rupees of local
equities on Oct. 19, paring their outflow from equities this
year to 9.67 billion rupees, according to data on the  website  of
the regulator. They withdrew a net $2.4 billion in August, the
most since October 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  