-- 
Indonesian Government Prevails in Tussle Over Financial Regulator’s Board

-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 
2011-10-21T17:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/indonesia-government-prevails-in-tussle-over-financial-regulator.html
Indonesia  ended months of impasse
over the board composition of a planned financial regulator as
lawmakers yielded to the government’s efforts to reduce the risk
of political interference in bank supervision.  The Financial Services Authority parliamentary working
committee agreed Oct. 20 to the government’s plan for two former
finance ministry and central bank members on the agency’s board
of commissioners, along with seven presidential picks vetted by
parliament, Achsanul Qosasi, a vice chairman of the committee,
said by phone in Jakarta yesterday. Parliament had wanted two of
its members in the mix.  “The composition of the board of commissioners is good and
it will make this body independent, without political
interference in supervising financial institutions,” said David Sumual, an economist at PT Bank Central Asia in Jakarta.  The working group had been meeting since last year to
debate whether lawmakers should be included in managing an
authority set to take over regulation of capital markets,
insurers, pension funds and banks from the  finance ministry  and
central bank. Indonesia spent 450 trillion rupiah ($50 billion)
to rescue lenders during the Asian financial crisis, when anger
over corruption during Suharto’s regime helped topple the
dictator in 1998.  The new regulator, known in the Indonesian language as
Otoritas Jasa Keuangan, or OJK, is due to start operating in
January 2013, supervising capital markets, insurers, pension
funds and other non-bank institutions, Qosasi said. Oversight of
commercial banks will start from January 2014, he said.  Transition Time  “We are giving a transition time for commercial banks
during the one year, as the banking industry is more
complicated,” Qosasi said.  The country’s financial industry is dominated by banks that
are products of a restructuring in the aftermath of the 1997-98
Asian crisis. The  World Bank  and Moody’s Investors Service are
among those who have called for financial regulators to be non-
politicized in a nation that has for years attempted to rein in
corruption.  “It is imperative that the Financial Services Authority is
able to do its job properly according to its legal mandates,
free from political intervention,” the World Bank’s Indonesia
country office said in an e-mail to Bloomberg News in June. Some
government and non-government agencies are still “beholden to
powerful interest groups,” the Washington-based lender said in
a 2008 report.  Voting Rights  The two former Bank Indonesia and finance ministry
officials on the OJK’s board will have voting rights, said
Qosasi. Nusron Wahid, the working committee’s chairman, said in
July that Indonesia’s parliament had wanted the two ex-
government members to have no  voting rights . On the board
selection process, the president will give 14 names to
parliament for so-called fit and proper tests, out of which the
legislature will choose seven people. The president will also
nominate two of his 14 suggestions to be chairman, for
parliament to choose.  President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono began his second term in
October 2009 vowing to target the bribery and extortion that
deter foreign investment. Former President Suharto, who ruled
for more than three decades and whose family and friends had
interests in businesses from trading cloves to transporting
petrochemicals, was alleged to have stolen as much as $35
billion from the country, the United Nations Office on Drugs and
Crime report said in 2007.  Bank Mandiri  PT Bank Mandiri, Indonesia’s largest bank by assets, was
formed from four state-owned lenders. In 2000, its president
director, Robby Djohan, was removed months after the Indonesian
Observer reported he refused to name the bank’s bad debtors,
citing Djohan. Five years later, a successor was replaced and
later put on trial for corruption charges, winning an acquittal
in 2006. A director for compliance was removed in 2005 after a
government probe into loans extended by the bank.  The OJK will take over regulation of capital markets,
insurers and pension funds from the Capital Market and Financial
Institution Supervisory Board, and assume responsibility for
bank supervision, currently handled by the central bank.  Bank
Indonesia  oversees 120 foreign and local commercial banks.  “This body will be independent like the central bank,”
Qosasi said. “If a crisis happens and there’s a problem in
banks, the OJK together with Indonesia’s deposit insurance
agency will set up a committee on financial-sector stability to
decide whether they need to save the bank, or close it.”  Bank Bailouts  Indonesia’s government in 2008 enacted regulations allowing
the central bank to bail out lenders in need of liquidity. The
country spent about 450 trillion rupiah, mainly in the form of
 government bonds , bailing out lenders to prevent them from
collapsing when the rupiah lost three-quarters of its value
during the Asian financial crisis.  A more recent bailout of PT Bank Century during the 2008
global financial crisis was attacked by Yudhoyono’s own
political allies, with parliament voting last year for a
criminal probe of Vice President Boediono and then Finance
Minister  Sri Mulyani Indrawati .  The reverberations from that rescue spread this year when
Bank Indonesia Deputy Governor Budi Mulya became the latest
target of probes into the 2008 Bank Century bailout. Mulya came
under investigation by the state auditor regarding a
“personal” 1 billion-rupiah loan he obtained from the former
owner of Bank Century, Difi Johansyah, a spokesman at Bank
Indonesia in Jakarta, said earlier this month.  The deputy governor was relieved of his role as head of
monetary policy operations as of the end of last month while
retaining the deputy’s post, Johansyah said. Bank Indonesia’s
board of governors approved a request by Mulya for “non-
active” status because of “personal reasons,” the central
bank said in a statement on its website yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net . 