-- 
Indonesia Stocks: Astra International, Bumi, Energi Mega Persada

-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 
2011-10-21T09:27:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/indonesia-stocks-astra-international-energi-mega-persada-inco.html
Shares of the following companies
had unusual moves in Indonesian trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of the close in Jakarta.  The  Jakarta Composite index (JCI)  lost 0.1 percent to 3,620.66,
falling for a second day. The gauge slid 1.2 percent this week.  PT Astra International (ASII IJ), Indonesia’s biggest
automotive retailer, fell 2.5 percent to 66,100 rupiah. The
nation’s vehicle sales will likely fall short of the targeted
870,000 units this year as flooding in  Thailand  disrupted
supplies, said Johnny Darmawan, president director at PT Toyota-
Astra Motor.  Toyota Motor Corp. will reduce production in Indonesia for
one week starting Oct. 24, the Tokyo Shimbun newspaper reported,
without saying where it got the information. Astra sells  Toyota
vehicles . Arief Istanto, a spokesman at Astra, couldn’t be
reached when called at his office in Jakarta.  PT Bumi Resources (BUMI IJ),  Indonesia ’s largest coal
producer, rose 4.8 percent to 2,200 rupiah, the biggest boost to
the Jakarta Mining Index. Shareholders approved today the
company’s plan to buy back shares, Corporate Secretary Dileep
Srivastava said. Bumi’s immediate objective is to buy back about
200 million shares for about $60 million or $70 million to allow
them to settle convertible bonds next year, Srivastava said.  PT Energi Mega Persada (ENRG IJ), Indonesia’s second-
largest listed oil company, gained 3.1 percent to 165 rupiah.
Energi Mega has submitted a bid to buy 36.7 percent of Cnooc
Ltd.’s stakes in the Offshore North West Java oil block,
Investor Daily Indonesia reported, citing Imam P. Agustino,
president director at Energi Mega. Agustino couldn’t be reached
when called at his office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  