-- 
Infosys Says India Should Emulate China in Guiding Currency as Rupee Drops

-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 
2011-10-21T07:59:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/infosys-says-india-should-emulate-china-in-guiding-currency-as-rupee-falls.html
India  should manage its currency to
reduce volatility like China guides its yuan  exchange rate ,
Infosys Ltd.’s Chief Financial Officer V. Balakrishnan said,
after the rupee today extended losses to a two-year low.  The  Reserve Bank  of India should “step in at appropriate
times,” the executive in charge of hedging at the nation’s
second-biggest software exporter said in an e-mail response to a
query. The rupee has slumped 11 percent this year, the worst
performance among  Asia ’s 10 most-traded currencies, compared
with a 3.2 percent gain in the yuan.  An inflation rate that has stayed untamed even after 12
interest-rate increases since March, 2010, nine quarters of
current-account deficit and a prolonged debt crisis in  Europe 
have caused the rupee to tumble this year. The fluctuation
erodes profitability at Infosys, which will have $742 million of
its revenue covered by risk-mitigating currency derivatives by
the end of December, according to Bangalore-based Balakrishnan.  “Rupee’s depreciation at such extreme levels is not
desirable when the Indian economy is going through slower growth
due to high inflation,” he said. “India should learn to manage
its currency like China.”  The rupee fell 0.8 percent to 50.2075 against the dollar at
1:16 p.m. in Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
touched 50.2125 earlier today, the lowest since April 2009.  Least Cover  Infosys has the lowest foreign-exchange cover among India’s
three biggest information technology companies, wrote Bhuvnesh Singh, an analyst at  Barclays Capital  in Mumbai, in an Oct. 18
report. The company hedges 40 percent of its revenue, compared
with bigger rival Tata Consultancy Services Ltd., which protects
80 percent of its sales, and No. 3 Wipro Ltd., which covers
about 110 percent, the report said.  A stronger currency makes products more expensive for
overseas buyers, reducing demand, while weakness boosts revenue
when the company repatriates earnings. Every 1 percent movement
in the Indian rupee against the  U.S. dollar  has an impact of
approximately 50 basis points on Infosys’s operating margin, the
company said in its annual report.  Infosys derived 65 percent of its revenue from companies in
 North America  and 22 percent from Europe in the year ended March
31. The code writer that counts BP Plc and Neiman Marcus Group
Inc. among its clients reported a 10 percent increase in net
profit in the quarter ended Sept. 30, beating estimates.  The People’s Bank of  China  sets a daily  reference rate  for
the yuan and allows it to trade up to 0.5 percent on either
side, a policy that has invited criticism from U.S. officials
including Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke . Failure to
allow faster gains against the dollar has impeded a global shift
in demand toward emerging markets that would bolster the global
economy, according to him.  Economic ‘Dynamism’  The yuan has appreciated 10 percent, adjusted for
inflation, since mid-2010, a pace that’s too slow, U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said on Oct. 11. In contrast, he
wrote in a guest column in India’s  Hindustan Times  in November,
that India is demonstrating economic “dynamism” that comes
from promoting internal growth, while allowing currency
flexibility.  India’s rupee is headed for a third monthly loss as a
government report on Aug. 30 showed the gross domestic product
grew 7.7 percent in the three months ended June 30, the slowest
pace in six quarters. Another report showed factory output
expanded at the slowest pace in 29 months in August.  The central bank has boosted its benchmark rate by 3.5
percentage points since March 2010 as wholesale-price inflation
stayed above 9 percent for 10 straight months through September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net  