-- 
Ikea’s Owner May Spend ‘Billions’ to Develop U.K. Properties

-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 
2011-10-21T11:25:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/inter-ikea-has-billions-to-fund-u-k-homebuilding-expansion.html
The owner of the Ikea retail
franchise said it has “billions” of pounds to spend as it
starts an expansion into the U.K.’s homebuilding and real-estate
development market.  Inter Ikea Holding SA’s LandProp unit has acquired several
hundred hectares near  London  to build 10,000 homes, Managing
Director said in an interview yesterday. The company has also
purchased a 50-hectare (124-acre) site in Suffolk for a non-
residential project in partnership with the separate Ikea Group
retail company.  “Our ambition is to be seen as one of the biggest
development players in the U.K. in the coming years,” Mueller
said. “We are able to invest huge sums of money -- we are
talking about billions instead of millions.”  LandProp said yesterday that it completed the purchase of
land to create a 10-hectare site next to the Olympic Park in
east London. In January, the unit of Luxembourg-registered Inter
Ikea will seek approval to build 1,200 homes, a hotel, offices,
shops and restaurants on the land.  Mueller declined to give further details about the land
transactions near London and in Suffolk because the information
is private and the closely held company is in talks to acquire
adjacent sites.  Olympic Park  Inter Ikea’s board approved the U.K. expansion plans two
years ago, attracted by prospects of falling land prices and
forced sales. One of the first purchases was a 5.5-hectare
portion of the site near the  Olympic Park  in June last year in a
 foreclosure sale , Mueller said.  The company, which develops various types of property
except malls and big box retail outlets, had focused its
expansion until now on former Soviet bloc countries such as
 Poland ,  Latvia , and Lithuania as well as the Benelux countries.  LandProp doesn’t need to borrow to finance its purchases
because of the cash its parent generates in  franchise fees paid
by the 325 Ikea stores  around the world plus other sources of
income, Mueller said.  “We are completely equity driven and money isn’t a problem
at all,” he said.  Aside from the homes that it plans to build at its “Strand
East” project in east London, LandProp will construct shops,
restaurants, a 350-bedrooom hotel and 480,000 square feet
(44,600 square meters) of offices. It intends to remain as
manager of the development, the executive said.  LandProp is in talks to acquire more sites in east London
and elsewhere in the U.K., Mueller said.  “We have come in with a strategic view and not just to
jump in and jump out,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 