-- 
Investors See No Permanent Solution From Euro Summits, BofA Says

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-10-21T17:36:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/investors-see-no-permanent-solution-from-euro-summits-bofa-says.html
Most investors expect that next
week’s European Union summits will fail to provide a permanent
resolution for the region’s debt crisis, according to a survey
by Bank of America Corp.  Fifty-one percent of respondents predicted the meetings on
Oct. 23 and Oct. 26 will end with a “kick it down the road”
solution, the poll of 136 equity and credit investors showed.
Thirty-nine percent expected a “sensible plan,” 2 percent said
a “shock and awe” announcement is most likely, and 8 percent
forecast that nothing new will happen.  European finance ministers met in Brussels today to lay the
groundwork for the Oct. 23 summit of government leaders that was
the original deadline for a solution to the crisis. An
additional gathering was scheduled for Oct. 26 yesterday after
Germany and  France  said the EU needs more time to seal a
“global and ambitious” accord. Sixty-five percent of investors
don’t expect the talks to stop debt-market concerns spreading to
Spain and  Italy , Bank of America said.  “We were surprised that 35 percent remain optimistic that
sovereign fears can be ring-fenced this weekend,” London-based
analyst Derek De Vries wrote in a report today.  Eighty-five percent of respondents to the survey expected
the firepower of the euro-area bailout fund, known as the
European Financial Stability Facility, to be expanded. The
majority also forecast bank recapitalizations of less than 100
billion euros ($139 billion) and writedowns on Greek debt of 40
percent to 50 percent.  Bank Lobby  Alongside plans for a larger rescue fund, European leaders
are holding talks with representatives of global bank lobby
group  Institute of International Finance , including Deutsche
Bank AG Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann , to push Greek
bondholders to accept losses on the country’s sovereign debt
that go beyond the roughly 21 percent agreed on in July.  European stocks rose for a fourth week this week, for the
longest streak since December, with the benchmark Stoxx Europe
600 Index posting a 0.2 percent gain. The poll was conducted
from Oct. 19 through today, Bank of America said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  