-- 
Liquidity Pinched on Corporate Block Trades, JPMorgan Says

-- B y   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 
2011-10-21T19:06:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/liquidity-is-squeezed-for-block-trading-of-corporate-bonds-jpmorgan-says.html
Banks and money managers are having
a tougher time trading corporate bonds in large sizes and older
issues as  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis limits risk-taking,
according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  strategists.  The proportion of transactions in the investment-grade bond
market that are larger than $5 million, known as block trades,
has dropped to 43 percent from as high as 54 percent in 2011,
JPMorgan credit strategist led by  Eric Beinstein  in New York
wrote in a note to investors today. Buying and selling has
become concentrated in so-called on-the-run bonds, which
typically are recent issues, while relative trading in non-
financial company debt is at a record low, compared to financial
debentures, the analysts said.  The report illustrates where liquidity in credit markets
has evaporated most as a JPMorgan survey of investors this month
showed all respondents were concerned with the ease at which
they can trade. While such corners of the market have been
impacted, overall volumes have remained stable, they said, even
as dealers reduced their inventories to an eight-year low.  “Liquidity is people’s ability to get done what they want
to get done,” Beinstein said in a telephone interview. “If
you’re trying to trade off-the-run bonds now, that’s a little
bit harder. If you’re trying to trade larger blocks, the data
suggests that’s harder as well.”  Block Trading  The proportion of trading completed in blocks of $5 million
or larger reached as low as 41 percent at the end of September.
      Trading volumes in the top 20 percent of investment-grade
corporate bonds have climbed to levels on par with those during
the months before the 2008 credit crisis, the strategists wrote
in the note.  “The more concentrated the trading, the less breadth there
is to liquidity,” the New York-based analysts said.  The amount of buying and selling in non-financial company
debt, which makes up two thirds of the investment-grade  bond
market , has shrunk relative to trading in bonds of banks and
other financial companies, the analysts said.  A measure of trading in non-financial debt relative to the
amount of debt outstanding has dropped to 0.17 percent, compared
with 0.23 percent for financial debt. The gap “has never been
this large and this long-lasting,” the strategists said.  Investor perceptions of liquidity have deteriorated as
banks globally face increased capital requirements and potential
losses from debt-laden European nations including Greece,
Portugal and Ireland.  Dealer Inventories  Bondholders will need to take deeper losses on Greek
 government bonds  to make the country’s debt sustainable,
according to a report dated today on the nation’s finances by
international creditors.  Federal Reserve data showed that dealer inventories of
corporate bonds dropped to the lowest since July 2003 the week
ended Oct. 5. The 22 primary dealers of U.S. government
securities that trade directly with the Fed reduced inventories
of corporate debt due in more than a year to $54.6 billion, down
42 percent since May. The level climbed to $55.5 billion in the
week ended Oct. 12, Fed data show.  While the drop in inventories and overall limits in risk-
taking by investors is likely impairing liquidity in pockets of
the market such as block trades, overall trading volumes have
increased this year, the JPMorgan analysts said.  “Trading volumes are actually pretty stable, even though
it’s true that dealers have smaller positions than they had
previously,” Beinstein said in the interview. “It’s a little
more subtle than the general perception.”  The gap between where dealers will buy and sell securities
also has widened, although the analysts said that’s because of
the higher relative yields at which bonds are trading.  The average bid-ask spread has increased to 12 basis points
from eight at the start of the year, according to JPMorgan.  “The proportion of bid/ask spread to the overall level of
spreads is slightly down, meaning that nothing has changed
structurally,” they wrote. “Merely, more bonds are trading at
wider levels than before.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon D. Harrington in  New York  at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  