-- 
Japan to Sell $10.4 Billion More Debt to Pay for Earthquake Reconstruction

-- B y   Y u m i   I k e d a ,   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 
2011-10-21T05:25:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/japan-to-sell-800-billion-yen-more-debt.html
Japan  will sell about 800 billion
yen ($10.4 billion) of additional government debt to the market
this fiscal year to fund earthquake reconstruction and help
companies cope with a strong yen, the Ministry of Finance said.  The total for investors such as banks and life insurers
will be a record 145.7 trillion yen, compared with an initial
plan for the year started April 1 of 144.9 trillion yen.  The amount announced today was below predictions from
analysts at UBS AG, Mizuho Securities Co. and Nomura Securities
Co. as the government seeks to control the biggest debt burden
in the industrialized world. Policy makers aim to drive an
economic recovery after three-consecutive quarters of
contraction and the March 11 quake and tsunami that left more
than 19,000 people dead or missing.  “The issuance plan gave a positive surprise to the  bond
market ,” said  Katsutoshi Inadome , a fixed-income strategist in
Tokyo at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., one of
the 25 primary dealers obliged to bid at government debt sales.
“Though the additional issuance is small, that doesn’t mean
Japan’s overall financial burden is small, which is the bigger
issue.”  Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  approved today a 12.1
trillion yen third supplementary budget to fund rebuilding. The
package will include 2 trillion yen to help companies deal with
the yen’s appreciation. The government has already unveiled two
packages totaling 6 trillion yen for quake relief.  Funds From Reserves  The 2 trillion yen will be used to encourage investment in
domestic plants and to hire workers as the rising yen pressures
companies to move abroad, according to the Cabinet Office. A
separate 2 trillion yen will be added to 8 trillion yen in
foreign-exchange reserves being shifted to the state-run  Japan
Bank for International Cooperation  to help exporters and spur
acquisitions overseas, the Cabinet said in a statement today.  Japan’s government also said it will bolster funds that can
be used to intervene in the  currency market  by 15 trillion yen,
a plan announced by Finance Minister Jun Azumi last month.  The yen measures may raise Japan’s gross domestic product
by 0.5 percentage point, and help create or maintain 300,000
jobs, the Cabinet said.  Posing a threat to Japan’s export-led economic recovery,
the yen has strengthened more than 5 percent against the dollar
this year and advanced to a post-World War II high of 75.95
versus the greenback on Aug. 19.  “I don’t think that the yen trading in the 70s reflects
healthy profits in the export sector,” Azumi told reporters in
 Tokyo  today.  Nuclear Disaster  The extra budget, which Noda will present to a diet session
that started this week, earmarks 9.244 trillion yen for spending
related to rebuilding including the yen measures, according to
the government. It also plans 356 billion yen in spending to
deal with the nuclear disaster in the northeast.  Starting from Nov. 29, the government will add 100 billion
yen to each monthly auction of debt maturing in two and five
years. It currently sells 2.6 trillion yen in two-year notes and
2.4 trillion yen in five-year notes every month.  Most of the 25 primary dealers, who are obliged to bid at
government debt sales, expected about 2 trillion yen of extra
issuance for the rest of fiscal 2011, a Ministry of Finance
official told reporters on Oct. 13.  Before the announcement, UBS estimated 1.6 trillion yen of
bonds would be sold to institutional investors, while Mizuho
Securities forecast 2 trillion yen and Nomura predicted between
1.2 and 1.4 trillion yen.  Bond sales to individual investors will increase by 1
trillion yen to 3 trillion yen, the ministry said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yumi Ikeda in Tokyo at 
 yikeda4@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  