-- 
J&J, Novartis Face Antitrust Probe on Generics

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-10-21T12:23:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/johnson-johnson-novartis-face-eu-antitrust-probe-on-generics.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and  Novartis AG (NOVN) 
are under investigation by the European Union’s antitrust
regulator over contracts that may have hampered the sale of
generic versions of pain killer Fentanyl in the Netherlands.  The EU authority said it’s probing contractual arrangements
between J&J and Novartis that may have had the “object or
effect of hindering entry” of the generic drug onto the Dutch
market. Basel, Switzerland-based Novartis owns Sandoz, a
generic-drug maker.  “Pharmaceutical companies are already rewarded for their
innovation efforts by the patents they are granted,” EU
Antitrust Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said in an e-mailed
statement. “Paying a competitor to stay out of the market is a
restriction of competition that the commission will not
tolerate.”  Antitrust regulators on both sides of the Atlantic are
focusing on how settlements between companies that make branded
medicines and generics producers might harm consumers. Bayer AG
was among drug firms told by EU officials in January to submit
details of patent-settlement deals that may be used to delay the
sale of generic versions of medicines. Drug developers use
various ways to delay generics, the EU said in a 2009  report .  The investigation is related to a contractual agreement J&J
had with Sandoz in the Netherlands and is limited to that
country, Stefan Gijssels, a spokesman for J&J’s Janssen
subsidiary, said in a telephone interview today. The company
will cooperate fully with authorities, he said.  Teva Deal  “It’s important to underline that the commission has not
made a finding that Janssen did something wrong in the
Netherlands," Gijssels said. ‘‘It’s the start of an
investigation."  ‘‘We don’t comment on ongoing procedures,’’  Eric Althoff , a
spokesman for Novartis, said in an e-mail.  EU antitrust regulators are also investigating  Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) , the world’s largest generic
drugmaker, and  Cephalon Inc. (CEPH)  over a 2005 agreement that may have
delayed generic versions of Provigil. Teva last week completed
its acquisition of Cephalon after agreeing to divest Cephalon’s
marketing rights in France for a generic version of narcolepsy
drug Provigil.  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  last year partly lost an appeal at the EU’s
second-highest court over a commission decision that it had
misled patent officials and flouted antitrust rules to keep a
generic competitor off the market. The London-based company has
an appeal pending.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  