-- 
Kansas Appeals Ruling Restoring Family-Planning Clinic Funds

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-10-21T21:09:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/kansas-appeals-ruling-restoring-family-planning-clinic-funds.html
Kansas  is appealing a U.S. judge’s
decision to restore funding to a Dodge City family-planning
clinic he ruled is being irreparably harmed by a state law.  The state is challenging U.S. District Judge J. Thomas Marten’s Oct. 18 decision to grant a preliminary injunction to
the clinic, which he said isn’t an abortion provider and has
stayed open only because its staff was willing to work without
pay.  Governor  Sam Brownback  in May signed into law a provision
restricting eligibility for federal Title X family-planning
funding for cancer screenings, breast exams,  birth control  and
family planning for the indigent, limiting the money to
hospitals, county health departments and federally qualified
health centers.  The law’s constitutionality was challenged by Planned
Parenthood of Kansas and Mid-Missouri in a lawsuit filed at the
U.S. courthouse in  Kansas City , Kansas, on June 27. The Dodge
City Family Planning Clinic Inc. intervened in the case on Oct.
11.  “DCFP and Planned Parenthood of Kansas and Mid-Missouri
are the only two institutions denied funding by the law, which
was designed to target abortion providers,” the  American Civil
Liberties Union  said in an Oct. 18 statement issued after
Marten’s ruling.  The Dodge City clinic relied upon Title X for about 40
percent of its funding, according to the ACLU.  The group, which is representing both plaintiffs, won an
Aug. 1 ruling on behalf of Planned Parenthood blocking the law,
which took effect on July 1. The state has appealed that
decision as well.  The case is Planned Parenthood of Kansas and Mid-Missouri
v. Moser, 11cv2357, U.S. District Court, District of Kansas
(Kansas City).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  