-- 
Kocherlakota Says Fed’s Shifting Inflation Objectives Hurting Credibility

-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n
-- 
2011-10-21T20:52:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/kocherlakota-says-fed-s-shifting-inflation-objectives-hurting-credibility.html
Federal Reserve Bank of  Minneapolis 
President  Narayana Kocherlakota  took issue with what he said are
the central bank’s shifting objectives for inflation since last
year, saying it weakens policy makers’ credibility.  Actions taken by the  Federal Open Market Committee  this
year “suggest that it is more willing to tolerate inflation
risks,” by letting price gains climb above 2 percent to push
down unemployment, Kocherlakota said today in a speech in
Minneapolis. “If this drift in inflation risk tolerance were to
persist, or were expected to persist, it could give rise to a
damaging increase in inflationary expectations.”  The regional chief is among the three Fed officials who
dissented from the FOMC’s moves to ease policy at the two most
recent meetings in  Washington . He said the FOMC has made its
mission for policy unclear, something that can be remedied by
more “explicit communication.”  “I believe that the FOMC’s decision-making in 2011 has
introduced a lack of clarity about its monetary policy
mission,” Kocherlakota, 48, said in his remarks at the Harvard
Club of  Minnesota .  Minutes of the Fed’s most Sept. 20-21 meeting show that at
least some committee members wanted to retain the option of a
third round of asset purchases, and that many are open to the
idea of tying the Fed’s low-rate pledge to more specific
developments in the economy. Most participants favored providing
the public with more information on the central bank’s goals and
how those objectives influence the Fed’s decisions, according to
the minutes released on Oct. 12.  Yellen  Federal Reserve Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen , appearing in
Denver after Kocherlakota’s speech, said a third round of large-
scale securities purchases might be warranted. She also said the
central bank should give “careful consideration” to Chicago
Fed President  Charles Evans ’s proposal to tie the near-zero
interest-rate pledge to specific levels of unemployment and
inflation.  The U.S. recovery is “disappointingly slow,” which
leaves the economy “vulnerable to downside shocks,” Yellen
said. Job growth is likely to remain “tepid in the coming
months,” and the chance that  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis may
pressure U.S. financial companies is “particularly worrisome,”
Yellen said.  U.S. Economy  Data released since the FOMC’s last gathering show the U.S.
economy grew at a 1.3 percent pace in the second quarter, faster
than initially estimated, and American employers added 103,000
payroll jobs in September. Meanwhile, confidence among U.S.
consumers unexpectedly dropped in October as Americans’ outlooks
for the economy and their finances slumped to the lowest level
since 1980, according to the Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan preliminary index of consumer sentiment.  Kocherlakota voted against the FOMC’s Sept. 21 decision to
push down longer-term  interest rates  through the so-called
Operation Twist. He also challenged the committee’s Aug. 9
pledge to keep the benchmark U.S. interest rate low through at
least mid-2013, preferring instead to maintain a previous
commitment to do so for “an extended period.”  Since the Fed’s November decision to undertake a round of
$600 billion in purchases of long-term Treasuries, unemployment
has dropped from 9.8 percent to 9.1 percent in September.
Meanwhile, the central bank’s preferred inflation measure has
climbed from 1 percent to an anticipated 1.9 percent in October,
he said.  Inflation Gauge  Kocherlakota said he expects that inflation gauge, the
personal consumption expenditures price index minus food and
energy, to rise to just over 2 percent in the coming years while
he sees unemployment falling to about 8 percent by the end of
2013.  These changes “suggest that the committee should have
lowered the level of monetary accommodation over the course of
the year,” the policy maker said. “Instead, the committee
chose to raise the level of monetary accommodation.”  In response to audience questions after his speech,
Kocherlakota said monetary policy can’t be operated “at a
short-term frequency,” but rather over a “one-, two-, three-
year horizon.” He also said it’s “very troubling” how long
the U.S. recovery is taking and that the country is “going to
have to confront” its long-term fiscal policy issues.  “The fundamentals of the  U.S. economy  are very strong,”
he said. “The future does look very bright” and yet “very
challenging” over the next four or five years.”  ‘Good Job’  Kocherlakota added that European officials “have done a
good job up until now in staying in front of events” in their
region.  U.S. stocks advanced, giving the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index its longest weekly rally since February, amid speculation
of an agreement to contain Europe’s debt crisis and further
Federal Reserve stimulus.  The  S&P 500  increased 1.9 percent to 1,238.25 as of 4 p.m.
New York time, the highest level since Aug. 3. The gauge rose
1.1 percent since Oct. 14, gaining for a third straight week.
The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  climbed 267.01 points, or 2.3
percent, to 11,808.79 today, erasing its 2011 decline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivien Lou Chen in  San Francisco  at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  