-- 
N.J. Republicans Paid for Second Round of Christie Trips After Koch Flight

-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 
2011-10-21T21:02:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/n-j-republican-group-that-funded-christie-koch-flight-hired-more-charters.html
New Jersey state Republicans paid
$85,000 for  charter flights  to send Governor  Chris Christie  on a
national round of speeches and fundraisers in the third quarter.  That was the amount spent in July and September on flights
for Christie, a first-term Republican, said  Rick Gorka , a
spokesman for the state party committee. Last month, Gorka said
the group covered the $63,000 cost for Christie to fly to
Colorado in June, to speak at a conference organized by Charles
and  David Koch , the billionaire oilmen and Tea Party supporters.  Gorka declined to say which trips the party paid for in the
third quarter.  “Our policy is to not break out specifically what each
expenditure is for,” Gorka said today by telephone.  Christie, 49, spent the last week of September traveling to
Missouri, Louisiana and  California  to raise money for state
parties, including New Jersey’s. His trip, which also included a
speech at the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library, led party
fundraisers to urge him to get into the presidential race.
Christie said Oct. 4 that he wouldn’t run.  The governor has made at least 35 political appearances
outside New Jersey since he took office in January 2010. The
trips helped generate more than $620,000 from non-New Jersey
sources, of the almost $1.5 million raised by the state
 Republican Party  in the quarter that ended last month, according
to a filing with the state Election Law Enforcement Commission.  Democratic Totals  State Republicans spent $1.44 million in that period,
according to the commission. The Democratic State Committee
raised $512,196 from July 1 to Sept. 30 and spent $399,504.  Republican expenditures included $25,616.68 in July and
$59,451.77 in September to Meridian Air Charter of Teterboro,
 New Jersey . Meridian flew Christie to the June Koch conference,
Gorka said last month.  Christie’s trips outside New Jersey turned into a political
issue after that conference, which became public when the
magazine Mother Jones posted a recording of his speech on its
website Sept. 7. Christie doesn’t announce political travel on
his public schedule.  The Koch trip raised questions from Senator Loretta Weinberg, 76, a Democrat from Teaneck, who introduced
legislation to compel New Jersey governors to release their out-
of-state travel plans. That bill remains in committee.  “I feel this way about all governmental and quasi-
governmental activities: If you don’t want to reveal, you
probably shouldn’t be doing it,” Weinberg said today by
telephone.  Michael Drewniak , a spokesman for the governor, referred
questions about Republican expenses to the state committee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton  at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  