-- 
NATO Sees Libyan Rebel Council’s Control as Clearing Way to End Mission

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-10-21T23:18:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/nato-sees-libyan-rebel-council-s-control-as-clearing-way-to-end-mission.html
The NATO-led coalition in  Libya 
decided tentatively to end its military operation on Oct. 31,
judging the country’s transitional council can adequately
protect civilians, U.S. Ambassador Ivo Daalder said.  A final decision will be made next week, Daalder, the U.S.
representative to NATO, told reporters on a conference call
today. The North Atlantic Treaty Organization’s ambassadors and
partner nations reached their conclusion during a meeting in
Brussels today, based on advice from military commanders.  “We were looking at the degree to which the NTC could
provide for the security of citizens throughout the country,”
Daalder said, referring to Libya’s ruling National Transitional
Council.  In the meantime, the coalition will begin winding down its
operations and will monitor conditions on the ground in case
coalition forces are needed again, he said. Commanders expect
little need for enforcing a no-fly zone or an arms embargo in
the interim because fighting has subsided, Daalder said.  The Oct. 31 end date will mark seven months after the
operation began with authorization from a United Nations
Security Council resolution calling for military action to
protect civilians. Libyan rebels, backed by coalition air
strikes, overtook forces loyal to 42-year dictator  Muammar Qaddafi  in their last holdout of Sirte this week, and he was
killed in the melee.  Key Indicator  “We considered the fall of Sirte a key indicator that the
NTC would be able to have control over all population centers,
which it now has,” Daalder said.  Commanders cited an uprising of Qaddafi loyalists even a
week ago that was “quickly put down by the local authorities,
suggesting therefore that the NTC was capable of providing the
kind of security for its own people that was necessary,”
Daalder said.  The alliance also examined the degree to which organized
military units still control heavy weapons that threatened
civilians and how much Qaddafi or his supporters still
controlled such forces.  “There was a determination that not only Qaddafi’s demise
made that impossible but the command and control system itself
was no longer functioning,” Daalder said.  U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  outlined the conditions
for ending the operation two weeks ago during talks with his
counterparts in NATO, where he sought to forestall a premature
exit.  Facebook Announcement  NATO Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen announced the
Oct. 31 end of the operation in a post to his Facebook page.  Asked whether the operation could become a model to be used
in Syria, where the UN estimates more than 3,000 have been
killed in a deadly crackdown against protesters by President
Bashar al-Assad, Daalder said that was unlikely.  Unlike the support the U.S. and its allies gained from Arab
nations for action to stop Qaddafi’s assaults against Libyan
civilians, no such consensus is developing on  Syria , he said.  “Opposition forces as well as the  Arab League  do not think
it is a good idea for outsiders to intervene,” Daalder said.
“Nor is it clear that intervention from the outside would have
the desirable effect.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in  Washington  at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net . 