-- 
New York Bomb-Plotter’s Father Pleads Guilty to Lying on Immigration Form

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-10-21T15:26:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/new-york-bomb-plotter-s-father-pleads-guilty-to-lying-on-immigration-form.html
A U.S. citizen from  Afghanistan ,
convicted of destroying evidence of a failed plot to bomb  New
York City ’s subways, pleaded guilty to lying on an immigration
form.  Mohammed Wali Zazi, 56, admitted today before U.S. District
Judge John Gleeson in Brooklyn, New York, that he committed visa
fraud between December 2006 and January 2007 when he said his
nephew was his son.  “Amanullah was not my biological son and I told my
attorney to mark it as my real son,” the elder Zazi told the
judge through an interpreter, referring to his nephew.  On July 22, a jury convicted Zazi, a former New York City
taxi driver who lives in the Denver area, of obstructing justice
in the case of his son, Najibullah Zazi, who admitted to
participating in the subway plot.  Najibullah Zazi pleaded guilty in February 2010 to
supporting al-Qaeda and conspiring to use a weapon of mass
destruction in a 2009 plot to detonate bombs on New York subways
around the anniversary of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.  Co-Conspirator  A co-conspirator, Zarien Ahmedzay, pleaded guilty to his
role in the foiled subway plot in April 2010. Ahmedzay and
Najibullah Zazi face life in prison.  A third man, Adis Medunjanin, pleaded not guilty in August
2010 to participating in the subway plot.  Deborah Colson and Justine Harris, lawyers for Mohammed
Wali Zazi, declined to comment on the plea after today’s
hearing.  Brooklyn  prosecutors previously agreed to drop the visa-
fraud charge so it could be moved to federal court in  Manhattan .
After his jury conviction, Mohammed Wali Zazi agreed to move it
back to Brooklyn.  In the elder Zazi’s trial, prosecutors said he directed
family members to destroy bomb-making materials, including
liquid chemicals, that were part of the probe into his son, and
that he conspired with family members to lie to agents looking
into the subway plot in 2009.  The new conviction brings a maximum sentence of 10 years in
prison, though the nonbinding guideline range is up to six
months. He faces a maximum of 40 years on the other charges.
He’s scheduled to be sentenced Dec. 2.  The visa case is U.S. v. Zazi, 11-cr-718, and the
obstruction case is U.S. v. Zazi, 10-cr-60, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of  New York  (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, federal court at 
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 