-- 
News Corp. Says All Board Nominees Are Elected, Withholds Final Vote Total

-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e   a n d   R o n a l d   G r o v e r
-- 
2011-10-22T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/news-corp-says-all-directors-are-elected-split-chairman-role-rejected.html
News Corp. (NWS)  investors challenged
Chairman  Rupert Murdoch  and his sons at the media company’s
annual meeting, as their demands for governance changes and
limits to family control fell short.  News Corp. said all 15 directors were elected at the
meeting yesterday in  Los Angeles , while a proposal to split
Murdoch’s role as chairman and chief executive officer was
rejected. The company failed to provide vote totals as it has in
the past. Complete results will be filed with regulators early
next week, according to a statement.  Murdoch promised at the meeting that final results would be
filed with regulators that day. The outcome of a challenge to
his dual role as chairman and chief executive was never much in
doubt, given his 40 percent of the voting shares. A high
percentage of votes against a continued board role for Murdoch,
80, and his sons, James and Lachlan, would be an embarrassment.  “Obviously there’s going to be some large withhold votes
from directors and possibly that’s part of the rationale for
them not releasing the votes at the meeting,” said Julie Tanner, director of socially responsible investing for New York-
based Christian Brothers Investment Services Inc.  News Corp. (NWSA)  didn’t immediately respond to a request for
comment about the delay.  Christian Brothers introduced a resolution from the floor
to separate the chairman and CEO roles held by Murdoch, who has
run the New York-based media company for more than five decades.  Symbolic Effort  “The resolution to separate the chairman and CEO was
always symbolic, a way to get the discussion going, and there
was a lot of support,” Tanner said. “But because of the way we
had to file the resolution, it couldn’t get all the support it
needed.”  Proxy advisers and investors including Calpers, the largest
U.S. pension fund, had called on the Murdochs to leave the board
to bolster independent oversight of the company in the wake of a
phone-hacking scandal. The elder Murdoch went into the meeting
with at least 47 percent of the voting shares on his side,
including Saudi Prince Alwaleed Bin Talal, who has voiced
support.  According to News Corp.’s proxy, 798.5 million Class B
shares were eligible to vote. Of the total, Murdoch controls
317.3 million. The company owns the Fox broadcast network and
the Wall Street Journal.  Share Repurchases  News Corp. Class A shares, those most widely held, rose 2.1
percent to $17.20 at the close in New York yesterday. The
shares, which represent about 70 percent of the economic
interest, have no  voting rights . The company has repurchased
$1.71 billion worth since announcing a buyback in July.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information and
is a business partner of Alwaleed.  The reports of hacking at the now-closed News of the World
tabloid in  London  have raised questions about News Corp.’s
management and the board’s independence. The company formed a
management and standards committee to aid outside inquiries.
Police have arrested at least 16 people, including  Andy Coulson ,
Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s former communications chief and
an ex-News of the World editor.  The company also said it is investigating other U.K.
publications. The testimony of  James Murdoch , who once led the
News International unit, concerning when he learned of the
hacking was contradicted by former employees, and he has been
asked to testify again in Parliament.  Focus on James  James Murdoch may face additional scrutiny over the Wall
Street Journal  Europe , which boosted circulation by selling
issues at 1 euro cent per copy to third parties, according to
documents obtained by Bloomberg News.  “Shareholders have to wonder whether there could be
something else to come out in the future,” said Christian
Brothers’ Tanner.  Institutional Shareholder Services, or ISS, which advises
more than 1,700 investors on governance issues, recommended
voting against 13 of the 15 directors, including the Murdochs,
citing a “lack of stewardship and failure of independence” by
the board. The average amount of dissenting votes among S&P 500
companies is around 5 percent, according to ISS.  Hermes Equity Ownership Services also sought the ouster of
Murdoch and his sons from the board. Two other advisers, Glass
Lewis & Co. and Egan-Jones Proxy Service, recommended James, 38,
and Lachlan, 40, be removed. Their concerns include a slow
response to the phone-hacking scandal and executive
compensation.  Other Allegations  The  California Public Employees’ Retirement System  and the
California State Teachers’ Retirement System also took stances
aimed at loosening Murdoch’s control.  British lawmaker  Tom Watson , a Labour Party member who has
led Parliament’s inquiry into phone hacking, drew attention at
today’s meeting to allegations of computer hacking and the
activities of a private investigator, Jonathan Rees.  In response to Watson’s questions, Murdoch said he wasn’t
aware of computer hacking in the U.K.  “These rumors you speak of are being addressed,” Murdoch
said. “We will put this right.”  “A large enough ‘No’ vote by independent shareholders may
pressure the board to split the chairman and CEO roles or create
an explicit  succession plan  that doesn’t contemplate one of
Rupert’s offspring in the CEO role,”  Doug Creutz  and Jason Mueller, Cowen & Co. analysts, wrote in a note yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net ;
Ronald Grover in Los Angeles at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  