-- 
News Corp.’s Hacking Cost ‘Way More’ Than Announced, U.K. Lawmaker Says

-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-10-21T15:18:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/news-corp-s-hacking-cost-way-more-than-announced-u-k-lawmaker-says.html
Rupert Murdoch ’s News Corp., rocked
by a phone-hacking scandal in the U.K., hasn’t fully disclosed
all its surveillance methods and may be liable for “way, way,
way more” than the 20 million pounds ($32 million) it has set
aside to settle the cases, a U.K. lawmaker said.  The company may be liable for cases involving as many as
4,000 people hacked by private investigator  Glenn Mulcaire , said
 Tom Watson , the Labour lawmaker who has led attacks on News
Corp. in the scandal, in an interview with Bloomberg Television
today.  Three other private investigators are also subject to a
police investigation in connection with hacking by the company,
Watson said. He said he plans to reveal additional surveillance
practices at  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s annual shareholder meeting in Los
Angeles today. He didn’t say where he got his information.  The 168-year-old News of the World was closed in July after
admitting it had hacked the phone of murdered schoolgirl  Milly
Dowler . News Corp.’s U.K. unit today agreed to pay 3 million
pounds to settle claims by the family of Milly Dowler, who was
killed in 2002. The scandal has led to at least 16 arrests,
including former company executives.  Watson has obtained shares in the company, giving him the
opportunity to address the meeting. He went straight from a
hearing on phone-hacking in Parliament in London to the airport
to catch his flight to  Los Angeles .  “I want to leave News Corp. investors in no doubt that the
scandal is not over,” Watson said today. “I don’t think the
board has been fully straight with investors.”  News Corp. spokeswoman Miranda Higham declined to comment
on Watson’s allegations.  Dowler Settlement  Watson told reporters yesterday he has new information
relating to the U.S. that “will leave people in no doubt that
there will be huge reputational harm to the company in months,
possibly years to come, that they’re not through the worst of
it, and there are more questions for the Murdochs to answer.”  Today’s settlement includes a 2 million-pound payment to
the Dowler family and a 1 million-pound donation by Rupert
Murdoch to charity.  Including these two payments, News Corp. has agreed to pay
more than 4 million pounds in at least six settlements with
celebrities and crime victims -- including  Sienna Miller , Andy Gray,  Gordon Taylor  and  Max Clifford  -- who were the subjects of
News of the World stories.  ‘Not Acceptable’  A member of the Labour Party, Watson has used his seat on
Parliament’s Culture Committee since 2009 to pursue News Corp.
over hacking allegations. He was the lawmaker who informed
Parliament of the Dowler accusations.  Watson was unsympathetic to suggestions that  James Murdoch ,
Rupert’s son, may have accidentally misled Parliament in July
when he failed to mention a second meeting in 2008, revealed
yesterday, at which he discussed a phone-hacking lawsuit against
the News of the World.  “I don’t think it’s acceptable, nor do I think it’s
understandable,” Watson said.  Watson said he accepted that Rupert Murdoch and his family
control enough News Corp. shares to retain power.  “They’ve got the votes, so they’re going to get what they
want,” Watson said. “But if they had any decency, they’d
listen to the concerns being raised.”  The official called on Murdoch, 80, to relinquish control
over the company.  “It’s time for him to hand over,” Watson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in  London  at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  