-- 
News Corp. to Pay $4.8M Hack Settlement

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-10-21T15:52:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/news-corp-to-pay-4-78m-phone-hack-settlement.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s U.K. unit agreed to pay
3 million pounds ($4.8 million) to settle claims that its News
of the World tabloid hacked the mobile-phone messages of a
murdered schoolgirl in 2002, hampering a police investigation.  The deal -- the biggest payout by News Corp. since the
hacking scandal erupted -- includes a 2 million-pound payment to
the family of Milly Dowler and a 1 million-pound donation to
charity, London-based News International said today. News Corp.
Chairman Rupert Murdoch, 80, was personally involved in the
negotiations, a person familiar with the matter said last month.  “When I met with the Dowlers in July, I expressed how
deeply sorry I was for the hurt we had caused this family,”
Murdoch said in the statement, which indicated he would
personally pay the 1 million-pound charitable donation. “The
behavior that the News of the World exhibited towards the
Dowlers was abhorrent.”  The settlement was confirmed by News Corp. the same day as
the New York-based company’s annual shareholder meeting in  Los
Angeles . U.K. lawmaker  Tom Watson , who is part of a government
probe of the scandal, said he would attend the meeting to speak
against the company’s management. The  California Public
Employees’ Retirement System  and other large investor groups
have also taken stances aimed at loosening Murdoch’s control,
citing concerns about how the phone-hacking issue was handled.  Substantial Donation  “The only way that a fitting tribute could be agreed was
to ensure that a very substantial donation to charity was made
in Milly’s memory,” the Dowler family said in the joint
statement. “We hope that projects will be undertaken so that
some good can come from this.”  Reports in July that Dowler’s messages had been
intercepted, hampering a police search when she was still
missing, triggered a public outcry that led News Corp. to close
the 168-year-old tabloid and drop its 7.8 billion-pound bid for
full control of  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)  The hacking
was previously thought to be limited to celebrities, athletes,
royalty and other public figures.  Police in Surrey,  England , admitted they were aware in 2002
that the News of the World had intercepted Dowler’s phone
messages and failed to inform any other police force or
investigate the hacking, the U.K. Parliament’s Home Affairs
Committee said yesterday.  Endemic Hacking  “Had Surrey police acted in 2002, it may have prevented
the culture of hacking becoming endemic at News of the World,”
lawmaker Keith Vaz said in a statement. “This was a serious
omission.”  A Parliamentary committee recalled News Corp. Deputy Chief
Operating Officer  James Murdoch  to answer more questions after
former executives challenged his testimony about his knowledge
of the extent of hacking at the tabloid. James and  Rupert
Murdoch  were questioned by the lawmakers for three hours on July
19.  Dowler’s body wasn’t found for six months after her murder.
The case received widespread media coverage at the time and
again in June this year when her killer, Levi Bellfield, was
sentenced to  life imprisonment . The News of the World’s private
detective  Glenn Mulcaire , who was jailed for hacking in 2007,
allegedly deleted some of Dowler’s messages to make room for new
ones, giving her family false hope that she was still alive,
according to a Guardian newspaper report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  