-- 
TNK-BP CEO-Designate Barsky to Quit Oil Venture on Nov. 1

-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t   a n d   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 
2011-10-21T12:57:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/tnk-bp-deputy-chief-maxim-barsky-to-step-down-as-of-november-1.html
TNK-BP Deputy Chief Executive
Officer Maxim Barsky resigned 10 months after he was supposed to
take the helm at the Russian oil venture, owned equally by  BP
Plc (BP/)  and a group of billionaires.  Barsky, 37, will leave on Nov. 1 “to carry on his
professional career outside of the company,” Moscow-based TNK-
BP said today in an e-mailed statement.  In July, Barsky criticized the shareholders for risking
damage to TNK-BP’s international growth unless it appointed
independent management in an interview with the Financial Times.
Billionaire shareholder  Mikhail Fridman  remains interim CEO.  TNK-BP, Russia’s third-largest oil producer, hired Barsky
in June 2009 and five months later promoted him to be CEO
designate as of January this year. A shareholder dispute had led
to the ouster of Bob Dudley in 2008 after five years as head of
the venture. Dudley became CEO of BP last year after the Gulf of
Mexico oil spill.  As part of the dispute resolution, the shareholders agreed
the next chief should be independent of the owners, speak
Russian fluently and have Russian business experience. BP
selected candidates subject to final approval by AAR, the
company representing  Fridman,  Viktor Vekselberg , Len Blavatnik
and  German Khan , an  executive director  at TNK-BP.  “I hope we will have the opportunity to collaborate with
Maxim on new projects in the near future,” Khan said in the
statement.  Barsky declined to comment on his plans by phone. He has
been working on TNK-BP’s acquisition of a 45 percent stake in
exploration blocks in Brazil’s Amazon that are controlled by HRT
Participacoes em Petroleo SA.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  