-- 
Nordic Banks Offer ‘Best Place to Hide’ From Capital Stress

-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 
2011-10-21T11:00:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/nordic-banks-offer-best-place-to-hide-.html
Nordic banks may offer investors the
best protection against a recapitalization wave that threatens
to dilute the share values of Europe’s lenders, said  UBS AG. (UBSN)   “It is a very attractive place for European investors to
hide from the ongoing eurozone problems,” Nick Davey, a London-
based analyst at UBS, said in an interview.  Scandinavian banks, including  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  and  DnB NOR
ASA (DNBNOR) , have negligible holdings of bonds sold by Europe’s most
indebted nations and are better capitalized than most of their
European peers. Nordea Chief Executive Officer Christian Clausen
said this week his bank has no plans to sell shares. At the same
time, Nordic governments have some of Europe’s smallest budget
deficits. Norway has the biggest budget surplus of any AAA rated
nation, offering an extra layer of protection to investors.  Shares in DnB NOR rose 3.2 percent to trade at 62.95 kroner
as of 10:59 a.m. in Oslo, outperforming the 46-member Bloomberg
index of European financials, which gained 1.9 percent. Nordea
rose as much as 1.8 percent, before trading 0.6 percent higher
in Stockholm.  In  Norway , “the banking industry has a good solvency
position, satisfactory profitability and low loan losses,” the
head of the country’s financial regulator, Morten Baltzersen,
said in an interview. “These factors provide a good starting
point to meet potential challenges.”  ‘No Immediate Need’  Swedish Finance Minister Anders Borg said Oct. 18 he sees
“no immediate need” for the country’s banks to raise their
capital buffers.  The European Union may require banks in the region to
increase core capital ratios to 9 percent of their risk-weighted
assets, according to a person with knowledge of the plans. The
deadline for meeting the increased capital levels may be the
middle of next year, German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble 
told a closed parliamentary committee this week, according to
two lawmakers who attended the meeting. That’s almost seven
years ahead of the target set by the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision .  Nordea, the biggest Nordic lender, had a core Tier 1
capital ratio -- a measure of financial strength -- of 9.2
percent in the third quarter. DnB NOR had a capital adequacy
ratio of 11.7 percent at the end of the second quarter, the most
 recent reported figures show .  Sidestepping EU  Nordea passed the European Banking Authority’s July stress
tests with a 9.5 percent capital ratio, almost twice the minimum
requirement of 5 percent. DnB NOR passed with a 9 percent ratio.
Another round of exams would help European leaders identify
capital needs.  Sweden’s lenders need to maintain higher capital levels
than their foreign peers because the country’s bank industry is
four times the size of the economy, Financial markets Minister
Peter Norman said in  Stockholm  today.  The country is also ready to sidestep European Union
efforts to impose caps on capital buffers beyond minimum ratios
set by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, said  Lars Frisell , chief economist at the Financial Supervisory Authority.  Sweden “will of course use pillar 2,” which focuses on
risk management, to enforce higher  capital requirements  for its
banks if the country is unable to do so under pillar 1, Frisell,
who is also a member of the Basel Committee, said at an event in
Stockholm today.  Tapping Debt Markets  Nordic banks are among the few in Europe still able to tap
wholesale funding markets. Two Swedish lenders issued senior
unsecured notes last week; SEB AB sold 750 million euros ($1.03
billion) in floating rate notes due in 2013, while  Svenska
Handelsbanken AB (SHBA)  sold 1.25 billion euros in notes due in 2021.  “That sends a pretty clear message to the market: we are
amongst the few funding safe havens still left standing in the
European banking index,” Davey said.  Besides Nordic lenders,  Germany ’s Deutsche Bank AG and
 Commerzbank AG (CBK)  have sold unsecured debt since September, as have
London-based  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and Rabobank International of the
Netherlands.  Banks in Norway and Sweden “have very little that they
need to demonstrate in this round of stress tests,” Davey said.
“Capital ratios already have extremely thick buffers above this
required hurdle rate and they simply don’t have a lot of
exposure to volatility to sovereign debt prices.”  Raising Capital  Europe ’s banks may need to raise 150 billion euros ($205
billion) to 230 billion euros to meet additional capital
requirements,  Kian Abouhossein , a JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst
in  London , wrote in an Oct. 1 note.  The EBA estimates Europe’s banks need to an additional 70
billion euros to 90 billion euros in capital, the Financial
Times reported yesterday, citing people familiar with the talks.  Nordea has “no direct exposure” to bonds sold by
Portugal,  Italy , Ireland,  Greece  or  Spain , it said on Oct. 19.
Norway’s six largest banks hold less than 1.3 percent of their
managed capital in assets from those countries,  the financial
regulator  said in June.  Norway, which channels most of its oil income into a $530
billion sovereign-wealth fund, has been shielded from the worst
of the euro area’s debt crisis, helping keep unemployment below
3 percent, Europe’s lowest rate. This has allowed banks such as
DnB NOR, the country’s biggest, to benefit from lower risk
premiums than the rest of Europe, the Financial Supervisory
Authority said last month.  No Crisis  “The Norwegian banking industry is clearly not in a state
of crisis,” Baltzersen said.  Lenders including  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  have said they oppose
recapitalization because it would dilute existing shareholders
without addressing the risk of sovereign debt defaults. BNP
Paribas SA and other banks have said they can meet increased
capital requirements without cash injections.  Concerns over a potential default by Greece and contagion
in other debt-ridden nations have pushed the 46-member Bloomberg
Europe Banks and Financial Services Index down 31 percent this
year. DnB has lost 23 percent and Nordea has dropped 24 percent.  Norwegian banks’ “situation is quite solid, especially in
relative terms compared to an average European bank,” Oeystein Olsen, the governor of the central bank of Norway, said in an
interview this week.  “The further down the road we get the more the Norwegian
sovereign wealth looks like an attractive backdrop in which to
operate,” Davey said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  