-- 
North Anna Reactors Ready for Use, Dominion’s Heacock Says

-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d   a n d   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 
2011-10-21T16:07:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/north-anna-reactors-are-ready-for-use-dominion-s-heacock-says.html
Reactors at Dominion Resources
Inc.’s North Anna nuclear plant in  Virginia , which have been
shut since an Aug. 23 earthquake, are ready to resume
operations, a company executive said.  “We have demonstrated our units are ready to restart,”
David Heacock, president and chief nuclear officer of Dominion
Nuclear, told the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission during a
meeting at the agency’s Rockville, Maryland headquarters.  Dominion, owner of Virginia’s largest utility, has spent
about $21 million on examinations and analysis since the
temblor, with an epicenter about 11 miles (18 kilometers) from
the power plant, the Richmond-based company said today in a
statement.  Neither the NRC nor Dominion has said when the plant, which
can generate enough electricity for about 450,000 homes, will
actually resume operations. The company has agreed to perform
additional seismic studies after the reactors are working again.  Ground shaking during the 5.8-magnitude earthquake exceeded
North Anna’s design limits. The 33-year-old plant’s two reactors
did not sustain significant damage during the earthquake, the
company said in its statement.  Dominion’s shares rose 1.7 percent to $51.87 at 12:03 p.m.
in  New York .  Public Meeting  The NRC plans to hold a public meeting near the power plant
on Nov. 1, Eric Leeds, director of the agency’s Office of
Nuclear Reactor Regulation, told commissioners today. NRC and
Dominion officials already met with neighbors at the North Anna
facility on Oct. 3.  The agency sent an eight-member inspection team to the
plant after the quake. The group discussed findings with North
Anna’s managers and some inspectors remain at the site, Joey Ledford, a spokesman for the commission’s Atlanta field office,
said in a telephone interview today.  The NRC “will not authorize restart until we are
satisfied” that the plant can operate without jeopardizing
public health and safety, Bill Borchardt, the agency’s executive
director for operations, said at today’s meeting with Dominion
officials.  North Anna’s shutdown has highlighted a separate NRC review
of earthquake risks at U.S. nuclear plants. Seismic hazards for
some nuclear plants in the eastern and central U.S. may be
greater than anticipated, the agency has said.  The agency said yesterday it has directed its staff to
begin implementing recommendations from a task force report to
improve safety at U.S. plants, including reviews of seismic and
flooding hazards. The task force report was triggered by
meltdowns and radiation leaks at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, caused by an earthquake and tsunami in
March.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  