-- 
Nowotny Calls Hungary’s Swiss Franc-Loan Plan ‘Nonsensical’

-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 
2011-10-21T12:42:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/nowotny-says-hungary-s-swiss-franc-loan-policy-is-wrong-way-.html
Hungary ’s policy of forcing banks to
swallow losses on foreign-currency mortgages is “economically
nonsensical” and “wrong,”  European Central Bank  governing
council member Ewald Nowotny said.  “I’m convinced that the brutal way that Hungary chose” to
deal with Swiss-franc mortgages is “not legally feasible” and
it’s “economically nonsensical,” Nowotny told an investor
convention in Vienna today. “It’s a wrong way.”  Hungarian lawmakers approved legislation on Sept. 19 that
allows early repayment of Swiss-franc denominated mortgages,
which account for two thirds of such loans, at a fixed exchange
rate of 180 forint per franc. Euro-denominated mortgages can be
repaid at 250 forint per euro, provided they were taken out at
lower exchange rates. Losses will be assumed by banks.  Households are struggling to repay franc-denominated
mortgages after the advance of the Alpine currency boosted
repayments and triggered defaults. The government’s plan to fix
below-market exchange rates threatens financial stability, the
Hungarian Banking Association has said.  The forint has weakened 6.1 percent against the euro since
Sept. 9, when the repayment plan was made public. The currency
had the biggest weekly loss this year as concern grew that
Hungarian debt may lose its investment grade.  Austria’s  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  and  Raiffeisen Bank
International AG (RBI)  are among Hungary’s largest banks. Erste,
eastern  Europe ’s second-biggest lender, became the first foreign
bank to recapitalize its Hungarian unit after the mortgage-loan
plan came into effect. It said Oct. 10 it will inject 600
million euros ($828 million) into the subsidiary.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net ;
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Ryan at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net 
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  