-- 
Nowotny Says ECB Rate Cut Was Among Options at Last Meeting

-- B y   F r a n c i n e   L a c q u a
-- 
2011-10-21T08:09:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/nowotny-says-ecb-rate-cut-among-options-discussed-last-meeting.html
European Central Bank council member
Ewald Nowotny said officials discussed cutting  interest rates  at
their last policy meeting.  “Of course, we always discuss all options,” Nowotny, who
heads  Austria ’s central bank, told Bloomberg Television in an
interview from Vienna today. He said the governing council
decided that liquidity provision was the priority.  “We will discuss interest-rate policy again when we have
the new forecasts,” he said. The ECB will publish new
projections for growth and inflation in December.  Officials resisted pressure to lower borrowing costs this
month, opting instead to bolster the banks as  Europe ’s debt
crisis pushed  Greece  to the brink of a default. The ECB is also
at the heart of a spat between the German and French governments
over how best to leverage the euro area’s rescue fund.  French officials are insisting the best way to boost the
440 billion-euro ($604 billion) fund is to grant it a banking
license so it can refinance itself at the ECB -- an option the
central bank and the German government reject.  Strengthening the fund, known as the European Financial
Stability Facility, is “not the direct role of the ECB,”
Nowotny said. While the ECB can “give some technical advice”
on how to structure the EFSF, it does “not have the mandate to
intervene in public finances,” Nowotny said.  He reiterated that the central bank’s government bond-
purchase program is a temporary measure and cannot be compared
with other central banks’ quantitative-easing policies.  Nowotny also said policy makers will “have to take into
account” in their next forecasts the fact that “unfortunately
there is a tendency of economies weakening worldwide.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francine Lacqua in London at 
 flacqua@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  