-- 
NYU Exiting National Merit Scholarship

-- B y   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 
2011-10-21T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/nyu-exiting-national-merit-scholarship-citing-test-process.html
New York University  pulled out of
the National Merit scholarships, becoming at least the ninth
school to stop funding one of the largest U.S. merit-based aid
programs, because it doesn’t want to reward students based on a
standardized test.  The  National Merit Scholarship Corp.  distributed more than
$50 million to students in the 2009-2010 year based on the PSAT
college entry practice exam. Most of the money comes from almost
200 colleges, including  Northwestern University  and  University
of Chicago , to fund awards of as much as $8,000 over four years.
Companies such as  Boeing Co.  and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  also sponsor the
program, primarily to benefit their employees’ children.  NYU’s withdrawal is another blow to National Merit, already
ignored by many elite colleges and a subject of a critical
report by a Harvard College-chaired commission. Schools are
debating how to allocate scarce financial-aid dollars as tuition
costs rise and the economy remains sluggish. While high schools
trumpet National Merit winners, relying heavily on a
standardized test is a flawed way to evaluate students, said
Shawn Abbott, assistant vice president of admissions at NYU.  “We simply do not feel that enrolling a larger number of
National Merit finalists is a necessary way for us to attract
the most academically qualified freshman class,” Abbott said in
an interview.  NYU stopped funding grants to finalists with the freshman
class that started school in September, Abbott said. Students
from earlier classes that were named National Merit scholars
will continue to receive their annual grants.  Famous Scholars  National Merit was founded in 1955, supported with funding
from Carnegie Corp. and the Ford Foundation. Economist  Paul Krugman , Amazon.com Inc. Chief Executive Officer Jeff Bezos and
Supreme Court Chief Justice John Roberts are past scholars, as
is Microsoft Corp. Chairman  Bill Gates , whose award was
sponsored by Boeing.  Harvard,  Yale University  and the six other schools in the
Ivy League don’t fund National Merit scholarships because they
award only need-based aid.  About 3.5 million students, including as many as 1.6
million 11th-graders, took the  PSAT  last week, qualifying them
for consideration in National Merit’s competition. The nonprofit
company determines a score cutoff in each state to determine who
advances as a semifinalist. Those that qualify must take the SAT
exam, submit grades and write an essay to become one of about
15,000 finalists.  University of California   The six campuses of the  University of California  that
previously participated in National Merit scholarships no longer
fund the program. The  University of Texas  at Austin and Wake
Forest University have also withdrawn, saying they don’t want to
reward aid based on a standardized test.  National Merit is “disappointed” that some finalists who
wish to attend these universities won’t have the opportunity to
get a scholarship funded by the schools, said Eileen Artemakis,
a spokeswoman for the Evanston, Illinois-based organization.  Many colleges including Wake Forest in Winston-Salem,  North
Carolina , have criticized standardized tests, saying they favor
the affluent, hurt minorities and don’t predict college success.  William Fitzsimmons, the admissions dean at Harvard,
chaired a National Association for College Admission Counseling
commission that in 2008 criticized the National Merit program in
a  report , saying it was “misusing” the PSAT and should end the
practice of using minimum test scores for merit aid eligibility.  Lack of Transparency  “National Merit has never been transparent about, for
example, the ethnic diversity of the people who receive National
Merit scholarships, nor do we get any information about whether
or not this very large amount of money is used by, for example,
large numbers of people who have great financial need,”
Fitzsimmons said in an interview.  About two-thirds of all full-time students receive some
form of aid, according to an October 2010  report  by the
nonprofit  College Board , which owns the PSAT. In the 2010-2011
academic year, tuition and fees for in-state students at public
universities climbed 7.9 percent from a year earlier, while they
rose 4.5 percent at private, nonprofit colleges, the College
Board said.  Colleges contributed $23.6 million to the National Merit
program in the 2009-2010 academic year and corporations and
foundations gave more than $19 million. The remaining $7.7
million in scholarships were funded by National Merit from
interest on its investments, which were valued at $146 million
as of May 2010, according to the group’s  annual report .  College Board Partnership  “The College Board and the National Merit Scholarship Corp.
share a common commitment to promoting excellence and equity in
education,” said Peter Kauffmann, a spokesman for New York-based
College Board. The PSAT “fits perfectly” with National Merit’s
criteria for selecting scholarship finalists,” he said.  National Merit hasn’t collected any fees from the PSAT for
the past 14 years, though it is entitled to a “nominal percent”
of revenue under their contract, Kauffmann said. Instead, it has
reinvested the funds into the program to keep test fees low and
expand access to fee waivers, he said.  The College Board gains a marketing benefit from its
association with National Merit when school districts or states
consider using public funds to pay for the PSAT in 11th grade or
ACT Inc.’s  10th-grade test  known as PLAN, according to Bob
Schaeffer, a spokesman for FairTest, a nonprofit group in  Boston 
that works to end the misuses of standardized testing. Almost
1.3 million 10th-graders nationally took the PLAN test in the
2010-2011 academic year, according to the nonprofit ACT.  PSAT Rationale  Karen Pennell, ACT’s southwest regional manager, said at a
2007  hearing  in Austin,  Texas , when the state considered paying
for a standardized test, that the rationale she heard most often
for using the PSAT was that it might boost the number of
National Merit scholars in the state.  ACT has approached National Merit from time to time, though
the organization hasn’t shown interest in other options, or
opened up their contract for competition, said Ed Colby,
spokesman for Iowa City, Iowa-based ACT.  The PSAT “has proven to be the most effective, inclusive,
and equitable method available for the initial step in a
multitiered evaluation” of scholarship candidates, National
Merit spokeswoman Artemakis said. High school grades, rank and
other “locally determined identifiers,” tend to vary in
consistency and reliability, she said.  The  University of Texas  at Austin, which now gives merit
awards based on its own criteria, felt National Merit’s
requirements shouldn’t be a driver for distributing aid, said
Tom Melecki, director of student financial services at the
campus.  Special Recognition  The National Merit program carries a lot of prestige at
high schools and colleges across the country, according to
guidance counselors.  Semifinalists at  Walton High School  in Marietta,  Georgia ,
are called to the guidance office the morning their status is
announced. They are treated to a special breakfast that day and
get their names listed in the school district’s newsletter. The
students are told they can refer to this honor for the rest of
their lives, said school Principal Judy McNeill.  Meghan Davenport, who graduated in May from Walton, said
she was awarded $1,000 a year from  Rice University  in Houston,
as a National Merit finalist.  “To get $4,000 from anywhere is a big deal,” Davenport, 18,
said in a telephone interview.  Tuition Waivers  Nonresident student finalists at the University of Oklahoma
can earn  tuition waivers and cash  valued at as much as $92,000,
according to the school’s website.  Oklahoma funded 188 scholarships for freshmen in 2009-10,
the most for a public university, according to National Merit’s
annual report. The winners are introduced at a football game,
said LeeAnn Victery, who runs the school’s scholars program.  Still, not everyone who qualifies for a scholarship gets
rewarded.  Greg Heon, 18, who graduated in June from Horace Mann, a
private school in  New York , scored high enough on the PSAT to
become a semifinalist. Since he did well on the ACT, he hadn’t
planned on taking the SAT, until he read it was required to
become a finalist.  Heon said he wanted to become a finalist for the prestige
and because he thought it would help him get into his schools of
choice. While he qualified, Heon didn’t win any money. When he
was accepted early into  Stanford University , which doesn’t
participate in the National Merit program, Heon said he stopped
caring about it.  ‘Misguided’ Grandeur  Being a National Merit scholar has no impact on admission
decisions at  Massachusetts Institute of Technology , said Stuart Schmill, dean of admissions. MIT doesn’t fund the scholarships,
nor do some other top schools such as the  University of
Michigan , University of Virginia and Williams College.  “National Merit has developed a kind of grandeur that is
misguided,” said Lawrence Momo, director of college counseling
at the private Trinity School and former head of undergraduate
admissions at  Columbia University , both in New York. “The
mythology that has been created about it in the public
imagination is overblown.”  The following lists the U.S. colleges that funded the most
freshmen National Merit scholars in the 2009-2010 academic year.  
Source: National Merit Scholastic Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Janet Lorin  in New York 
 jlorin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jonathan Kaufman  at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net . 