-- 
Loan Prices Rise for Second Straight Week as Outflows Moderate

-- B y   K r i s t a   G i o v a c c o
-- 
2011-10-21T13:24:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/loan-prices-rise-for-second-straight-week-as-outflows-moderate.html
Leveraged-loan prices are poised to
rise for the second straight week, climbing to the highest since
August as outflows from the debt moderate and the pipeline for
new-issue deals recedes.  Kinetic Concepts Inc. (KCI) ’s $1.63 billion  term loan  backing its
buyout by Apax Partners Inc. rose to 99.5 cents on the dollar
after being sold at 96.5 cents, according to Markit Group Ltd.
 Emdeon Inc. (EM) ’s $1.224 billion term loan backing its buyout by
Blackstone Group LP rose 3.25 cents on the dollar after being
sold at 97 cents.  Prices rose as investors pulled $121 million from mutual
funds that buy floating-rate bank debt for the week ended Oct.
12, according to data from EPFR Global, down from $196.7 million
the previous week. The institutional term loan new-issue forward
calendar shrank to about $8.1 billion as of Oct. 14, according
to Barclays Plc, down from $15 billion before the Labor Day
holiday in the U.S.  “The rally in the loan market has been driven by
technicals,” Gil Tollinchi, head of trading at Crescent Capital
Group in  New York , said in a telephone interview. “Prices have
been grinding higher over the last couple of weeks because you
don’t have the pressure from outflows and some investors are
taking the view that beyond deals already in the market there’s
only modest supply in the visible pipeline.”  Loan Prices  Prices of the debt rose to 90.26 cents on the dollar
yesterday, the highest since Aug. 8, according to the Standard &
Poor’s/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 index, which tracks the 100
largest dollar-denominated first-lien leveraged loans. The index
has risen nine of the last 10 trading days.  Leveraged loans and high-yield bonds are ranked below Baa3
by Moody’s Investors Service and less than BBB- by S&P.
Institutional loans, or term loan Bs, are sold mainly to non-
bank lenders such as collateralized loan obligations, bank loan
mutual funds and  hedge funds .  There are about 12 loan deals containing an institutional
component that are expected to come to the market, according to
Barclays.  Colfax Corp. (CFX) , the maker of pumps and valves that’s
buying Charter International Plc., is seeking $1.8 billion in
loans to support the acquisition, including a $900 million term
loan B. 99 Cents Only Stores got a commitment for a $525 million
term loan as part of the financing for its buyout by Ares
Management LLC and Canada Pension Plan Investment Board.  “There’s active dialogue for new transactions but it’s
unclear to the extent of timing of these deals, and whether they
have been underwritten or will be done on a best-efforts
basis,” Tollinchi said.  Original-Issue Discounts  The average original-issue discount needed to sell
institutional first-lien loans was 96.87 cents yesterday, down
from 99.4 cents in the first three months of the year, according
to Standard & Poor’s Leveraged Data and Commentary.  “For the secondary loan market to attract buyers it has to
be competitive with the primary market, and vice versa,” Randy
Schwimmer, head of  capital markets  at Churchill Financial LLC,
said in a telephone interview. “OIDs are the new call premium.
Investors buying a loan issued at 93 have seven points of
protection if the loan is repaid.”  Floating-rate debt funds have seen 12 consecutive weeks of
outflows, according to Cambridge, Massachusetts-based EPFR. Over
that time, there was about $6.1 billion of outflows. A record
outflow of $1.88 billion was recorded the week ended Aug. 17,
according to EPFR.  Kinetic LBO Financing  Wound-care company  Kinetic Concepts , based in  San Antonio ,
is paying 5.75 percentage points more than the London interbank
rate on the 6.5-year loan supporting its buyout by Apax. The
lending benchmark has a 1.25 percent minimum. The transaction
includes a $325 million term loan C that matures in five years
and pays 5.25 percent more than Libor with a 1.25 percent floor.
The five-year debt was sold to investors at 97 cents, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Emdeon pays 5.5 percentage points more than Libor with a
1.25 percent minimum on the lending benchmark on its $1.224
billion term loan B, according to Bloomberg data. Bank of
America Corp., Barclays, Citigroup Inc., Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. and SunTrust Banks Inc. arranged the deal for the
Nashville, Tennessee-based company.  Renaissance Learning Inc. (RLRN) ’s $75 million second-lien term
loan began trading at 99.5 cents yesterday, compared with
pricing at 96 cents, while a $175 million first-lien slice, also
sold to investors at 96 cents, started trading at 98.5 cents,
Markit said.  Permira Buyout  The loans support the Wisconsin Rapids, Wisconsin-based
learning information systems provider’s buyout by Permira
Advisers LLC.  RBC Capital Markets  arranged the transaction,
which pays 6.25 percentage points and 10.5 percentage points
more than Libor on the respective first- and second-lien
portions. There’s a 1.25 percent minimum on the lending
benchmark.  Go Daddy Group Inc.’s $750 million term loan to support its
buyout by KKR & Co.,  Silver Lake Partners  and Technology
Crossover Ventures, had risen 5.75 cents to 98.75 cents on the
dollar on Oct. 17, from pricing at 93 cents on Sept. 28,
according to Markit. The Barclays, Deutsche Bank AG, Royal Bank
of Canada, KKR & Co. and Goldman Sachs-led financing pays 5.75
percentage points more than Libor with a 1.25 percent floor on
the lending benchmark, Bloomberg data show.  “Improved sentiment over the last few sessions have
investors looking at loans trading up on the break from their
issued discounts, thinking, ‘Maybe we overreacted,’’ Schwimmer
of Churchill Financial said. ‘‘But technicals, not fundamentals,
are driving these moves.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krista Giovacco in New York at 
 kgiovacco1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 