-- 
Obama Signs Trade Deals With South Korea, Panama, Colombia

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-10-21T23:02:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/obama-said-to-sign-deals-with-south-korea-panama-colombia-1-.html
President  Barack Obama  signed into
law free-trade agreements with South Korea, Colombia and  Panama 
that the administration says will support tens of thousands of
American jobs.  Obama has cited the trade deals -- the biggest package in
17 years -- as a way to create or maintain U.S. jobs. He also
signed a bill renewing the Trade Adjustment Assistance program
for workers who lose jobs because of foreign competition.  “American job creators will have new opportunities to
expand and hire as they access new markets abroad,” U.S. House
Speaker John Boehner, an Ohio Republican, said in a statement
after the measures were signed.  The president called Colombian President  Juan Manuel Santos 
and Panamanian President Ricardo Martinelli earlier today to
congratulate them and stress the importance of all sides meeting
the “obligations of the agreements,” according to White House
press secretary  Jay Carney . Obama urged “continued progress”
on the  Colombia  Labor Action Plan during the call.  Organized labor was split on the accords, with the AFL-CIO
opposing them and the United Auto Workers urging lawmakers to
support approval. AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka said in an
Oct. 4 speech in  Washington  that the agreements would destroy
159,000 jobs by encouraging companies to send work overseas.  Oval Office Signing  The White House had initially scheduled a public ceremony
in the Rose Garden for the signing. Those plans were canceled
yesterday in favor of an Oval Office signing in front of
photographers only, followed by a closed Rose Garden reception.
In an e-mail, Carney cited a “busy day” as a reason for the
switch.  “He probably couldn’t get labor to stand by his side and
standing alone, or just with business, it would be a disaster,
given the growing Occupy Wall Street world and the fact that
most Democrats voted against it,” Kevin P. Gallagher, a
professor of international relations at Boston University, said
in an e-mail.  “Where this agreement was signed is not the issue,” said
Amaya Tune, a spokeswoman for the AFL-CIO. “The fact is that it
will contribute to the loss of hundreds of thousands of American
jobs at a time when workers are still trying to dig out of a
large hole.” Officials for the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, a
proponent of the agreements, declined to comment.  Lee Visit  On Oct. 14, Obama and South Korean President Lee Myung-bak
traveled to a  General Motors Co. (GM)  assembly plant in Michigan to
highlight prospects of increased sales and jobs for the
beleaguered U.S. auto industry.  Companies such as  Ace Ltd. (ACE) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) 
led the effort to lobby for passage of the South Korea deal,
while Caterpillar Inc. and  General Electric Co. (GE)  were among the
biggest backers of the accord with Colombia.  The chairman of the Business Roundtable, a Washington-based
association of chief executive officers, today called the
agreements “a pivotal event.”  “It’s now time to build on this milestone and focus on the
future,” said Jim McNerney, who is chief executive of the
Boeing Co. and a member of Obama’s White House Jobs and
 Competitiveness Council . About 95 percent of the world’s
consumers live outside the U.S., he said.  Seizing the Opportunity  “If we do not seize the opportunity to lead, others will,
and the accompanying economic benefits will accrue to their
nations rather than ours,” he said in a statement.  The signings took place as Obama prepares for a three-day
swing of Western states next week and before G-20 economic talks
in  France  set for Nov. 3-4.  The agreements, negotiated by President George W. Bush,
were revised by the Obama administration to include new terms
for auto tariffs from  South Korea , a tax-information exchange
with Panama and labor-rights assurances from Colombia.  The South Korea deal is the biggest for the U.S. since the
North American Free Trade Agreement in 1994. It will boost U.S.
exports as much as $10.9 billion in the first year that it’s in
full effect, according to the U.S. International Trade
Commission. The accord with Colombia is expected to increase
exports as much as $1.1 billion a year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  