-- 
Obama Says All U.S. Troops Will Leave Iraq by End of Year

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-10-21T20:55:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/obama-says-all-41-000-troops-to-be-withdrawn-from-iraq-by-end-of-this-year.html
President  Barack Obama  announced
that all U.S. troops will be out of Iraq by the end of the year,
fulfilling a campaign promise and ending one of the longest
conflicts in U.S. history.  “After nearly nine years, America’s war in Iraq will be
over,” Obama said at the White House today. American soldiers
“will cross the border out of Iraq with their heads held high,
proud of their success, and knowing that the American people
stand united in our support for our troops.”  The president spoke after conducting a video conference
with Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki. Obama said both
governments agreed on the next stage in the relationship as the
U.S. withdraws its remaining 41,000 troops in Iraq.  Obama’s opposition to the war was a central element in his
rise to national prominence, and his vow to bring U.S. troops
home was a building block of his 2008 campaign for president.  The U.S. had been negotiating on the terms of an accord
with the government of Iraq on whether to keep some U.S. forces
there past the end of 2012. The current U.S. agreement with Iraq
for keeping troops in the country, negotiated in 2008 under
President  George W. Bush , expires at the end of this year.  Both governments have said that Iraq needs help with
external security and with the continued training and
development of its security forces. A sticking point has been
U.S. insistence that its troops have immunity from prosecution
in Iraqi courts.  Training and Equipment  Obama said discussions will continue on how the U.S. might
help train and equip Iraqi forces.  Brian Katulis, a senior fellow at the Center for American
Progress, a policy research organization in Washington, said “a
large U.S. footprint” in Iraq will remain, given the staffing
level at the U.S. embassy and the number of private security
contractors.  “I would be surprised if they’re doing anything that would
diminish their plans for ongoing security assistance and police
training, which will be run under the State Department,”
Katulis said.  Denis McDonough , deputy White House national security
adviser, said the U.S. got “exactly what we needed to protect
our security interests” in negotiating with Iraq.  Iran  Issue  He said the withdrawal by the U.S. won’t embolden Iran,
which borders Iraq, to seek to expand its influence in the
region. The U.S. sees “an Iran that is weaker and is more
isolated,” he said.  Obama said the final stage of withdrawals marks a larger
transition as the U.S. also draws down troop levels in
 Afghanistan .  “The tide of war is receding,” he said. That will allow a
stronger focus on the  U.S. economy , he said.  “After a decade of war the nation that we need to build
and the nation that we will build is our own, an America that
sees its economic strength restored just as we’ve restored our
leadership around the globe,” Obama said.  There have been 3,525 U.S. personnel killed in action in
Iraq; an additional 957 died of other causes. More than 32,000
have been wounded. The war has cost at least $752 billion,
including training for Iraqis and related diplomatic missions,
the nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office  said in January.  U.S. military units have been steadily pulling out of Iraq
since reaching a peak of almost 170,000 in 2007.  Policy Critics  The troop-withdrawal announcement came under fire from
critics of Obama’s policies in the region.  Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  said in a
statement that the withdrawal represents an “astonishing
failure to secure an orderly transition in Iraq,” and said it
could put U.S. gains in the war at risk.  “The unavoidable question is whether this decision is the
result of a naked political calculation or simply sheer
ineptitude in negotiations with the Iraqi government,” he said.  Arizona Senator  John McCain , Obama’s opponent in the 2008
election, said the withdrawal “marks a harmful and sad setback
for the  United States  in the world.”  McCain, a prominent voice in his party on defense matters,
said military commanders have told him the Iraqi military still
needs assistance from U.S. forces.  Democratic Base  Among members of the  Democratic Party ’s base, who have been
disappointed by compromises such as the removal of a government-
run “public option” from his health-care overhaul and budget
deals with congressional Republicans, the withdrawal from  Iraq 
is an achievement the Obama campaign can point to in seeking to
raise enthusiasm for his re-election bid.  For Democrats “it’s a significant moment because it
delivers on a core promise of the campaign,” said  Chris Lehane ,
who was press secretary to former Vice President Al Gore’s 2000
presidential campaign.  Obama, as a state senator in  Illinois , opposed the 2002
congressional resolution authorizing the U.S. invasion, calling
it a “dumb war” in a speech to a rally in  Chicago . That later
became a highlight of the political biography that fueled
enthusiasm for him as public sentiment turned against the war.  Today’s announcement bolsters Obama’s ability to draw
distinctions with Republican challengers on a national security
record that also includes the killing of  Osama bin Laden  and a
military intervention that helped rid the world of  Muammar Qaddafi , Lehane said.  Still, the impact on Obama’s re-election campaign is likely
to be minimal, Lehane said.  “At the end of the day, there’s one omnipresent,
overhanging issue: the economy,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in  Washington  at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  