-- 
Obama Claims Vindication on Global Leadership as Qaddafi Falls

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-10-21T04:01:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/obama-claims-vindication-on-global-leadership-as-qaddafi-falls.html
President  Barack Obama  said the
death of  Muammar Qaddafi  vindicates his brand of coalition-based
global leadership and his decision to team up with allies to
oust the Libyan leader.  Critics in Congress assailed the administration for
entering the conflict with NATO, describing it as “leading from
behind.” Others argued that the president didn’t have the right
to start a war without congressional approval. Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton , explaining the administration’s position,
said that the military campaign was “limited intervention,”
not war.  Now, after almost eight months of coalition bombing
campaigns and financial and materiel support for the National
Transition Council, Obama said the U.S. mission to give Libyans
a chance to “determine their destiny” has succeeded.  “Without putting a single U.S. service member on the
ground, we achieved our objectives, and our NATO mission will
soon come to an end,” Obama said yesterday at the White House.  “We did exactly what we said we were going to do in
 Libya ,” he said. “I think it underscores the capacity of us to
work together as an international community.”  The president, back in Washington a day after an early
election campaign bus tour, said Qaddafi’s fall demonstrated the
strength of America’s global leadership during his tenure.  Path to Defeat  “We’ve taken our al-Qaeda leaders and we’ve put them on
the path to defeat,” Obama said. “We’re winding down the war
in  Iraq  and have begun a transition in  Afghanistan . And now,
working in Libya with friends and allies, we’ve demonstrated
what collective action can achieve in the 21st century.”  Leaders from Britain,  France  and elsewhere echoed Obama’s
claims of victory and validation about the end of the dictator’s
42-year turn on the international stage.  NATO Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen said Qaddafi’s
death showed that “NATO and our partners have successfully
implemented the historic mandate of the United Nations to
protect the people of Libya.”  The acclaim wasn’t universal. In Venezuela, President  Hugo Chavez  said Qaddafi was a “martyr” and a “great fighter”
whose death was an “assassination,” according to the Agence
France-Presse. The Libyan leader gave Chavez a human rights award
bearing Qaddafi’s name in 2004.  Qaddafi’s death follows the flight of Tunisia’s President
Zine El Abidine Ben Ali from power on Jan. 14 after large-scale
protests. Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  followed in April
after three decades in power.  A New Page  Yesterday, Egypt’s interim ruling authority called on
Libya’s National Transition Authority to “turn over a new
page” to rebuild the country and offered assistance to its
“Libyan brothers,” the semi-official newspaper Al Ahram
reported.  “We will terminate our mission in coordination with the
 United Nations ” and the NTC, Rasmussen said. With the reported
fall of Qaddafi-loyalist strongholds Bani Walid and Sirte,
“that moment has now moved much closer,” the NATO leader said.  Action in Libya was authorized by a UN resolution that let
NATO take all necessary measures to protect civilians. The step
was taken after the Gulf Cooperation Council and the  Arab League 
asked the West for help in dealing with Qaddafi’s assault on his
own citizens.  Arab-American groups, including the Arab-American Anti-
Discrimination Committee, welcomed the start of a new era for
Libya. U.S. lawmakers in both parties reacted positively to the
news about Qaddafi.  Hope for Oppressed  Representative Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, the Florida Republican
who heads the House Foreign Affairs Committee, said yesterday
that Qaddafi’s fall “gives hope to all those around the world
who are oppressed by tyrants.”  Michigan Representative Mike Rogers, chairman of the House
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, said Qaddafi’s death
closed an important chapter for the families of those killed on
Pan Am flight 103 and warned about the need to secure Libya’s
stockpile of chemical and advanced weapons.  For many Republicans, including Senate Minority Whip  Jon Kyl  of  Arizona , Obama’s handling of the Libya situation fell
short. Kyl told reporters yesterday that the president “wanted
to lead from behind and let others do the job.”  Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman  John Kerry , a
Massachusetts Democrat, said, “It is undeniable that the NATO
campaign prevented a massacre” and contributed to Qaddafi’s
downfall without “suffering a single American fatality.”  Victory for Multilateralism  Kerry said the mission was “a victory for multilateralism
and successful coalition-building in defiance of those who
derided NATO and predicted a very different outcome.”  The praise stood in sharp contrast to the tone of debates
earlier this year when even Kerry’s committee rejected Obama’s
argument that involvement in Libya didn’t require congressional
approval because it didn’t constitute full-blown hostilities.  The 1973 War Powers Resolution demands congressional
authorization within 60 days of first military strikes.  Senator Lindsey Graham , a South Carolina Republican and Air
Force colonel, said he is “disappointed in Congress” because
lawmakers didn’t exercise their oversight authority. “Congress
took an irrational view of the War Powers Act,” he said.  An April 1 Justice Department memo said Obama had the
constitutional authority to use military force in Libya because
he could “reasonably determine” intervention was in the
national interest.  Yesterday, U.S. District Judge  Reggie Walton  ruled that
members of the  House of Representatives  who had accused Obama of
violating the War Powers Act in Libya had failed to demonstrate
that they had the right to sue executive branch officials.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in  Washington  at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  