-- 
Oil Advances Amid Speculation European Rescue Fund May Ease Debt Crisis

-- B y   R a c h e l   G r a h a m
-- 
2011-10-21T12:32:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/oil-heads-for-weekly-loss-before-europe-summit-libya-sees-output-return.html
Oil advanced in  New York  as European
leaders prepared for talks on how to bolster a rescue fund that
will ease the debt crisis threatening the region’s economy.  Futures climbed as much as 1.6 percent, paring a weekly
loss.  Europe  may deploy as much as 940 billion euros ($1.3
trillion) to fight the debt crisis, two people familiar with
discussions said. U.S. crude inventories dropped to a 20-month
low this week, tumbling to the five-year seasonal average for
the first time since July 2010.  “The fundamentals are far tighter than they were in
2008,” said Amrita Sen, an oil analyst at Barclays Plc in
 London . “The current geopolitical context creates significant
tail risks in a world with such limited spare capacity.”  Crude for December delivery gained as much as $1.38 to
$87.45 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $87.30 at 1:30 p.m. in London. The contract
yesterday fell 0.3 percent to the lowest close since Oct. 13.
Front-month futures are up 0.6 percent this week and 4.5
percent lower this year.  Brent oil for December settlement traded at $110.85 a
barrel, up $1.09 on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. The North Sea crude’s premium to the U.S. benchmark
narrowed amid speculation that  Muammar Qaddafi ’s death will
increase Libyan output. The European benchmark contract was
$23 more than New York futures, compared with yesterday’s
close of $23.69 and a record of $27.88 on Oct. 14.  Expedite Output  The death of the former Libyan leader will expedite the
return to normal output levels, according to the state-run
National Oil Corp.  His capture in his home town of Sirte yesterday “will help
in getting a lot of fields back into production as soon as
possible,” Nuri Berruien, the chairman of National Oil, said in
a telephone interview from  Libya . “Now that Sirte is liberated,
people can move quickly. People can go to the fields that are in
the west.”  Fighting has reduced the availability of light, sweet
crude, or oil with low density and sulfur content, from Libya, a
member of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries. The
country’s output fell to 45,000 barrels a day in August from
pre-crisis levels of about 1.6 million, according to data,
compiled by Bloomberg. The North African nation pumped 100,000
barrels a day last month.  “Gaddafi’s capture won’t have any impact on the oil
market,” said Alexander Ridgers, London-based head of
commodities at CMC Markets, which handles about $160 million a
day in crude contracts. “It’s not as though he was still
running the country.”  Finance ministers meet in Brussels today at 2 p.m. to lay
the groundwork for an Oct. 23 meeting of government leaders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Graham in Belfast at 
 rgraham13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  