-- 
Olympus to Form Independent Panel to Review Past Takeovers

-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 
2011-10-21T09:00:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/olympus-to-form-independent-panel-to-review-past-takeovers-1-.html
Olympus Corp. (7733)  will form an
independent committee, including attorneys and accountants, to
investigate the company’s past acquisitions after letters from
its largest shareholders urged such a review.  The Japanese camera and medical equipment maker will
announce details as soon as they are decided, according to a
statement to the Tokyo Stock Exchange today.  Nippon Life Insurance Co., the largest Olympus shareholder,
Southeastern Asset Management Inc. and Harris Associates LP have
asked the company to respond to investors’ concerns about
takeover payments, which prompted a 50 percent plunge in the
stock price. Michael C. Woodford, fired as chief executive
officer last week, made public a PricewaterhouseCoopers report
that said the company may face regulatory and legal scrutiny
because of payments made to advisers in the acquisition of Gyrus
Group Plc in 2008.  “We’re trying to set up an independent committee as soon
as possible but cannot say at the moment by when we will start
it,” Yasutoshi Fujiwara, a spokesman for Olympus, said by phone
after the announcement.  Fees Double  Olympus, which started business 92 years ago, earlier this
week confirmed it paid $687 million in fees to advisers for its
$2 billion purchase of Gyrus, almost double the 30 billion yen
($391 million) Chairman Tsuyoshi Kikukawa disclosed a day
earlier.  The Tokyo-based company, the world’s biggest maker of
endoscopes, has lost more than $4 billion of its market value in
the six trading days since was fired. The share price fell 6.8
percent today to close at 1,231 yen, the lowest since 1999, at
the end of trading in  Tokyo  today.  Nippon Life requested Olympus to take “prompt” action to
address investor distrust regarding the company’s corporate
governance, Akira Tsuzuki, a Nippon Life spokesman said
yesterday.  Harris Associates, the seventh-largest shareholder of
Olympus, sent a letter today to the company’s board and to the
Tokyo Stock Exchange seeking an independent probe on 2008
acquisitions, David Herro, chief investment officer of
international equities at U.S.-based Harris, said in an e-mail.  Cayman Islands-incorporated AXAM Investments Ltd., one of
the two advisers that received the fees that were more than a
third of the $2 billion purchase price, was removed from the
local registry in June 2010 for non-payment of license fees,
according to the PricewaterhouseCoopers report. The PwC report
said it couldn’t establish who were the owners of AXAM.  Merger and acquisition advisory fees depend on individual
deals and usually range from 1 percent to 5 percent, two people
with knowledge of such deals said, declining to be named because
they weren’t authorized to talk to the media.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. suspended its rating on Olympus
this week saying the “adequacy” of the company’s accounting
practices regarding past acquisitions has become unclear. Nomura
Holdings Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. are also among brokerages
that suspended their ratings on the company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  