-- 
Home Value Insurance May Be Too Late as Housing Nears Bottom

-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   O d y
-- 
2011-10-21T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/home-value-insurance-may-be-too-late-as-housing-nears-bottom.html
Kathleen Kelly, 47, might be able to
sell her Visalia, California, house today if she had bought
insurance against falling  home prices  when she purchased the
place four years ago.  The policies, designed to reimburse homeowners who suffer a
loss on a sale due to declining local prices, hit the market in
September. That’s about five years too late for U.S. homeowners
who bought at or near the peak in 2006, as prices have dropped
about 31 percent since then. It doesn’t cover the fall prices
have already taken.  “It’s a fear factor sale,” Kelly, a bank branch manager,
said in a telephone interview. “From the insurance industry’s
standpoint, now would be the best time because home prices have
nowhere to go but up. But from the buyer’s point of view, I
don’t think you’d use it.”  U.S. home prices are unlikely to take another big drop,
which may be why companies are selling these contracts now, said
 Stan Humphries , chief economist for Zillow Inc., which tracks
home values.  “I think they’re calculating we’re closer to the bottom
than the top,” said Humphries, who expects prices to fall about
5 percent before leveling off in 2012 or later.  The insurance is designed to protect homebuyers concerned
they may be forced to sell for a loss in the event of a job
transfer, income loss or family change, said Scott Ryles, chief
executive officer of Home Value Insurance Co.  “Most people don’t sell their house because prices have
gone up or they think they’re going to go down,” he said in a
telephone interview. “Most people sell their home because they
need to move.”  Licensed in  Ohio   Home Value Insurance was licensed in September by the Ohio
Department of Insurance to sell its policies to homeowners in
that state. The insurance, which costs about $20 a month per
$100,000 in value, pays out only if the insured home sells for a
loss and if local prices, as measured by S&P/Case-Shiller home-
price indexes, have declined.  EquityLock Solutions LLC, another provider, has sold more
than 250 contracts since it started offering them in May, said
T.J. Agresti, chief executive officer of the Denver-based
company. EquityLock contracts, which are not insurance policies,
may pay if local home prices, as measured by Federal Housing
Finance Agency price indexes, fall in value, even if the owner
sells for a profit.  The home-value contracts could help provide a price floor
by restoring buyer confidence, even in the hardest-hit markets,
said Agresti.  Investment or Home?  “If enough people do that in a market like  Las Vegas , then
the natural side effect is market stabilization,” he said in a
telephone interview.  The high cost of the premiums and the untested nature of
the contracts make them a bad choice for most consumers, said
Bob Hunter, director of insurance for the  Consumer Federation of
America , a Washington-based consumer-advocacy group.  “Is your house an investment, or is it a home?” said
Hunter, a former insurance commissioner of  Texas . “In the long
run, the market will be all right.”  Prospective buyers should be sure they understand the
contracts’ structures and exclusions, said Scott Simmonds, an
insurance consultant based in Saco,  Maine .  Home Value Insurance won’t pay if an insured home has
declined in value due to a natural disaster, physical damage to
the home, or has been sold under eminent domain or in a
foreclosure, according to terms reviewed by Bloomberg News.  10-Year Term  The policies generally last up to 10 years and have
deductibles for the first two years. In the event of a claim,
they’ll pay the lowest of the home’s price decline, the
percentage decline of the local home-price index multiplied by
the home’s value, or 25 percent of the home’s value. The company
may raise the monthly premiums by as much as 5 percent each
year.  EquityLock’s contracts may last for 15 years and won’t pay
out during the first two years. They’ll pay a maximum of 20
percent, based on the underlying index value.  EquityLock isn’t an insurance company. It purchases
insurance to cover its own financial risk through a so-called
captive insurer licensed in  Washington . Captive insurance
companies are more loosely regulated than conventional insurance
companies that sell policies to the public, Hunter said.  ‘Risky Situation’  “It’s a much more risky situation,” Hunter said. If the
company failed, contract holders wouldn’t be covered by an
insurance guaranty fund. “If you have a bank account, you have
the FDIC; if you have an insurance company, you have the
guaranty fund; here you’ve got nothing,” he said.  EquityLock’s outside insurer is “actuarially defined,
regulatory approved and supervised,” Ted Rusinoff, EquityLock’s
president, said in an e-mail. “That level of oversight is
exactly why all of our contract holders feel comfortable that
our ability to pay a market downturn payment is secure.”  The potential U.S. market for the insurance policies is $25
billion a year, said Chi-Hua Chien, a partner at venture capital
firm  Kleiner Perkins  Caufield & Byers, which was an early backer
of Silicon Valley startups such as  Google Inc. (GOOG)  Home Value
Insurance may claim about 1 percent of the market over the next
five years, for projected revenue of about $250 million a year,
Chien said.  Kleiner Perkins, other venture-capital firms and university
endowments have together invested more than $10 million in Home
Value Insurance, said Chien, who declined to disclose an exact
amount because the company is closely held.  Value Proposition  There was $10.4 trillion of home mortgages outstanding on
June 30, down 6.93 percent from the $11.2 trillion in 2007, the
 Federal Reserve   reported  Sept. 16.  “Home equity represents the majority of the average
American’s net worth,” Chien said in a telephone interview from
his office in  Menlo Park , California. “In my mind, it’s a
compelling, if not mind-blowing, value proposition.”  Kelly bought her home for $479,000 with a 20 percent down
payment in 2007, when she needed room for her ailing parents,
husband and four children. Her parents have since died, the
marriage ended in divorce and she’d like a smaller place with
lower utility bills, even after  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  agreed to
a loan modification that cut her mortgage payments by 38 percent
to $1,435 a month.  “I did all the right things and it didn’t make a
difference,” she said. The home, which has two mortgages
totaling $380,000, is worth about $300,000 now, Kelly said.  Home-Value Hedge  Products that hedge against home-value gyrations aren’t a
new idea. MacroMarkets LLC in 2009 issued two exchange-traded
trusts that allowed investors to bet on the direction of the
Case-Shiller 10-city index. The funds liquidated in January 2010
because they never gathered more than $50 million in assets,
said Terry Loebs, managing director at MacroMarkets.  Grant Davis, president of GDI Insurance in Turlock,
 California , said he has lined up six California homebuilders who
want to offer home-equity insurance policies to prospective
buyers. The trouble has been finding an insurance company to
back the plan, he said.  “It has to be a highly rated company,” Davis said in a
telephone interview. “That’s what we’ve been pursuing and
that’s the hard part.”  Not Rated  Home Value Insurance is not rated by any credit analysts
because the company is new and is closely held, Ryles said. The
firm had to demonstrate financial strength and capital to the
satisfaction of Ohio’s insurance regulators, including the
ability to back all claims in the event of another plunge in
real-estate values, in order to become licensed, he said.
Licenses in other states are pending, according to Ryles.  As of July, the most recent month for which data is
available, home values in 20 U.S. cities were down 31 percent
from their July 2006 peak, according to the Case-Shiller index
of repeat sales. The drops ranged from 59 percent in Las Vegas
to 7.5 percent in  Dallas .  In 2005, EquityLock CEO Agresti, an attorney, was suspended
from practicing law by a Colorado judge for one year and one day
after exercising “unauthorized dominion and control” over a
client’s funds, according to court documents. Agresti “did not
scheme to defraud his client,” the order said.  Agresti said an office manager he employed misappropriated
about $187,000 from his  law firm  from 2002 to 2003, including
client funds.  Consumers should be wary of new insurance products in
general, since it often takes time for policies’ loopholes to
become apparent and for companies to work out appropriate
pricing, Hunter said.  “It’s like Texas hold ‘em,” Hunter said. “Except you
don’t see any of the cards.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net ;
Elizabeth Ody in New York at 
 eody@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 