-- 
Yingluck Warns Bangkok to Prepare as Floods Reach Thai Capital

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 
2011-10-21T17:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/honda-enlists-thai-soldiers-in-final-stand-as-floods-approach.html
Thai Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra urged Bangkok residents to move belongings to higher
ground as floodwaters that have swamped factories and displaced
millions this month start moving through the capital.  Boats ferried women, children and the elderly down main
boulevards on the city’s outskirts past people trudging through
waist-deep water carrying plastic bags over their heads,
television images showed. Cars were submerged on some streets.  “We will try to protect all areas in Bangkok from flooding
as best we can,” Yingluck said. “I would like every department
to cooperate to fight this crisis.”  Thailand ’s worst floods in half a century have claimed more
than 300 lives since July and shuttered more than 14,000
businesses in a country that makes about a quarter of the
world’s hard-disk drives and serves as the Southeast Asian
production hub for Japanese carmakers.  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Toyota
Motor Corp. are facing the worst supply disruptions since the
March earthquake that crippled  Japan .  Authorities opened more than 200 gates on Oct. 20 to drain
water through Bangkok’s 1,682 canals to help relieve pressure on
defenses in the city’s north. It may take more than a month for
water to leave the capital, which sits on the bottom of a flood
plain the size of  Florida  that has an average elevation of less
than two meters (6.6 feet) above  sea level .  A “huge amount” of water entered a canal used to process
tap water that stretches from flooded areas to inner parts of
the city, Bangkok Governor Sukhumbhand Paribatra said in a
statement yesterday. Yingluck ordered repairs to the levy along
the waterway and assured residents that tap water remained safe.  ‘Lucky’  “It’s not a critical situation yet,” Chaiyuth Sukhsri,
head of the water resources engineering department at Bangkok’s
Chulalongkorn University, said by phone. “We’ve been lucky it
hasn’t rained. Next week if there is some rain coupled with a
high tide, parts of the inner city may suffer.”  Thailand’s SET Index fell 4.4 percent this week, while the
baht lost 0.7 percent to trade at 30.99 per dollar. The central
bank, which left the benchmark  interest rate  unchanged this week
at 3.50 percent, signaled yesterday it is willing to consider
cutting rates as the disaster threatens to slow growth.  Barclays Capital  cut its forecast for Thai economic growth
this year to 2.9 percent from 3.7 percent because of flood-
related losses, it said in a report. Official data yesterday
showed exports rose 19.1 percent in September from a year
earlier, the least since June.  Mac Delays  Thailand is the world’s largest producer of hard-disk
drives, the biggest exporter of rice and rubber and the second-
largest supplier of sugar, according to government data. Apple
Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  said this week the floods set
back supply of components used in Mac computers.  The automotive industry is among the hardest hit and the
disruptions will ripple worldwide in the short term, according
to  Frost & Sullivan . Toyota will extend a production halt at its
three plants in Thailand until Oct. 28 following disruptions in
the supply of parts after flooding,  Shiori Hashimoto , a company
spokeswoman, said yesterday.  Thailand may lose 6 million metric tons of unmilled rice as
floods damage key plantation areas, Apichart Jongskul,
secretary-general of the Office of Agricultural Economics, said
in a phone interview yesterday.  In Ayutthaya, families struggled to find food and water in
floodwaters that reached neck high. Prasert Puangchan, 58,
travels hours to an adjacent town in a motorboat to get drinking
water.  “We can’t do anything but be patient until the water
recedes,” he said by phone. “If the water continues to rise,
we may have to live in a boat.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  