-- 
Hong Kong’s Inflation Accelerates to 5.8% on Rental Costs

-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 
2011-10-21T08:48:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/hong-kong-september-consumer-prices-rise-5-8-from-year-earlier.html
Hong Kong ’s inflation accelerated in
September after moderating from a 15-year high the previous
month, as housing rental costs increased in an economy that’s
teetering on the edge of recession.  Consumer prices rose 5.8 percent from a year earlier, the
government said on its website today. That compares with a 5.7
percent increase in August and the median 5.4 percent estimate
in a Bloomberg News survey of 13 economists. Excluding the
impact of temporary government subsidies, the underlying rate
was 6.4 percent, up from 6.3 percent the previous month.  Chief Executive  Donald Tsang  said Oct. 12 that Hong Kong is
seeing “enormous inflationary pressure” from rising wages, and
announced a public-housing rental waiver to help residents cope
with increasing costs. At the same time, the prospect of slower
growth in the U.S. and the European debt crisis are hurting the
economy by weakening export demand, Financial Secretary  John
Tsang  said on Oct. 16.  “Inflation is showing no meaningful signs of cooling down,
as solid wage growth and household spending continue to keep the
economy operating close to capacity,” Donna Kwok, a Hong Kong-
based economist at HSBC Holdings Plc., said before today’s
report. “As business conditions soften in response to
persistent global economic uncertainties, inflationary pressures
will likely peak in the coming months.”  Pain of Inflation  Donald Tsang last week reiterated the government’s August
estimate that the pace of increase in consumer prices will
accelerate to 5.4 percent in 2011, the fastest pace since 1997,
from 2.38 percent last year.  “Inflation is likely to climb up further in the near term
before peaking out, as the lagged effects from earlier surges in
international food prices and market rentals continue to filter
through,” the government said in today’s release, adding that
the recent slowdown in the increase in global commodities and
food costs will help to curb price gains “in the course of
time.”  Hong Kong must bear the pain of inflation to maintain the
dollar peg, which deprives policy makers of an independent
monetary policy, because the city may be worse off with the
alternatives,  John Greenwood , architect of the city’s fixed-
exchange-rate system, said Oct. 13.  John Tsang announced in his February budget one-off relief
measures that include electricity subsidies and waivers of
property rates and public housing rents. They distort the
headline inflation figures.  Average private housing rentals rose 1 percent last month
from August to a record HK$20.60 ($2.65) per square foot,
Centaline Property Agency, the city’s biggest closely held real
estate broker, said Oct. 19, citing a survey of 85 major
residential estates.  Morgan Stanley and Daiwa Capital Markets Co. say Hong Kong
may have fallen into a recession in the third quarter, after the
economy shrank 0.5 percent in the April-to-June period from the
previous quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  