-- 
Tory Burch’s Venture Capitalist Ex-Husband to Open Retail Brand

-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 
2011-10-21T13:32:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/tory-burch-s-venture-capitalist-ex-husband-to-open-retail-brand.html
Chris Burch, venture capitalist,
entrepreneur and ex-husband of designer Tory Burch, will open a
retail concept store in New York tomorrow.  C. Wonder -- the “C” stands for “charming, chic and
cheerful” -- offers brightly colored and moderately priced
home-decor products as well as casual women’s clothes.  While consumers worldwide remain cautious, “we have color,
we have fun, we have incredible technology but we are actually
offering extraordinary pricing,” said Burch, 58, sporting an
orange pocket square and slippers with red hearts.  One of the key challenges facing Burch is making sure the
customers distinguish C. Wonder’s colorful products from those
sold by Tory Burch, said Sherif Mityas, a partner at  A.T.
Kearney , a Chicago-based management consulting firm.  “They clearly have to differentiate from the Tory Burch
brand and there are a lot of similarities,” Mityas said in a
phone interview. “He has to be able to cover a broader array
because he has to be able to start building a new brand.”  The SoHo store is Burch’s second solely owned retail
venture since 1989, when he sold the sportswear brand Eagle’s
Eye to Swire Group. He co-founded  Tory Burch  LLC in 2003, where
he remains a board member. Through his venture capital firm, J.
Christopher Capital LLC, he has invested in various projects,
including Voss water, Aliph Jawbone wireless accessories and the
Faena Hotel in  Buenos Aires .  Burch’s new brand arrives as  consumer confidence  slumped
this month to the lowest level since the recession, amid a 9.1
 unemployment rate , stock market volatility and a lack of wage
gains. Spending in the home-decor sector remains restrained as
new home sales continue to decline, in August falling to a six-
month low, according to the U.S. Commerce Department.  ‘Hungry to Buy’  “No matter what happens in the economy, the consumer is
hungry to buy something that’s exciting,” Burch said.  He expects wealthy and aspirational consumers to buy his
entry-level luxury merchandise, which ranges from an $18 cheese
board with a personalized cheese spreader to a $148 fur vest.  Burch spent several months in Asian factories monitoring
production and the designs. The SoHo store was constructed near
 Shanghai , where Burch tested it out, then had it disassembled
and shipped to New York.  Fitting rooms, equipped with small touch screens, allow
customers to change the music and lighting as they try on the
clothes. All sales people will be equipped with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  iPod
Touches to provide customers with information about the clothes.  Three more  C. Wonder  stores will open this year at the
Westchester, Garden State Plaza and Roosevelt Field malls. Burch
plans to roll out 20 more next year across the country.  Eight more lifestyle brands will appear in the next two
years, Burch said. Next month a clothing store named after and
designed by his girlfriend, Monika Chiang, will open in  New
York , joining a Los Angeles location.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in New York at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  