-- 
Palestinian Chances at UN Will Worsen After Council Elections

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 
2011-10-21T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/palestinian-chances-at-un-will-worsen-after-council-elections.html
Palestinians seeking membership in
the  United Nations  won’t be able to count on the newly elected
Security Council members to better their chances.  When the 193-country General Assembly today picks five
countries to replace a third of the 15-member body on Jan. 1,
support for the Palestinians will drop by one as Guatamala,
running unopposed, succeeds Brazil in the Latin American seat.  “This election won’t help the Palestinian cause,” said
Jeff Laurenti, a UN analyst at Century Foundation.  “Guatemala
will be in favor of everything Palestinian until the Americans
tell them otherwise. They can be persuaded to abstain.”  That unfavorable outlook means the Palestinians might as
well push for a vote on membership as soon as Nov. 11, when the
council meets to discuss the final report put together by
experts on the viability of the Palestinian application.  A council member, probably Lebanon as the only Arab country
represented, can call for a vote within 24 hours at any time.  The Palestinians have said at least eight council members -
-  Russia ,  China , Gabon,  Nigeria ,  South Africa , Brazil, Lebanon
and India -- will vote “Yes.” Nine votes are needed for
membership.  Even if the Palestinians muster enough votes, they can at
best hope for a moral victory because the U.S., as Israel’s
closest ally, has said it will use its veto.  Abbas Dilemma  Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas, applauded in
the General Assembly when he presented his statehood bid on
Sept. 23, has let the application languish in an admissions
committee as he mulls the next step at the UN after a monthlong
reprieve.  Adding to the pressure to act is a deadline set by Quartet
mediators to renew negotiations. That elapses next week just as
a prisoner swap deal between  Israel  and Hamas has increased the
popularity of the rival group, considered a terrorist
organization by the U.S., European Union and Israel. Abbas’s
Prime Minister Salaam Fayyad said this week the time is “not
ripe” for talks to resume.  David Makovsky , head of the Middle East peace project at
the Washington Institute for Near East Policy, said Abbas has
miscalculated the direction of the Security Council countries
and his bid to get their approval is losing momentum.  Quest for Recognition  In efforts to ensure the quest for recognition doesn’t run
out of steam, the Palestinians have pursued other options,
including full membership in the UN agency that promotes
education, culture and science. The 193 members of Unesco meet
on Oct. 25 to vote on the motion, which must be approved with a
two-thirds majority.  The Palestinians might also circumvent the council and try
to upgrade their status at the UN to “non-member state” from
“entity” in the UN General Assembly, where they enjoy the two-
thirds majority needed and where the U.S. has no veto.  In the U.S., Palestinian overtures have met with threats
from Republicans to stop funding the world body and interrupt
Palestinian aid. Texas Governor Rick Perry, who is seeking to be
the Republican candidate facing Democrat  Barack Obama  in the
2012 presidential election, said the Palestinian membership bid
is a “travesty.”  UN Funding Questioned  “I think it’s time not only to have that entire debate
about all of our foreign aid, but in particular, the UN,” said
Perry. “Why are we funding that organization?”  American interests are unlikely to be advanced in a new
 Security Council  that in a worst-case scenario for the U.S.
could see Mauritania,  Pakistan  and  Azerbaijan  triumph over
allies such as  Morocco , Slovenia and  Hungary .  “The U.S. will be looking warily at some of the
candidates,” said Laurenti. “Pakistan, while a front runner,
is very nervous Americans might have put up a stealth campaign
against their coming in.”  American relations with Muslim Pakistan, which has served
six times on the Security Council, have soured since the May
raid in which U.S. SEALs killed al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden.
The relationship deteriorated further after Pakistan’s main spy
agency was suspected of involvement in the Sept. 20 killing of
Burhanuddin Rabbani, the leading Afghan envoy seeking peace
talks with Taliban insurgents.  Pakistan’s Candidacy  As the second biggest contributor to UN peacekeeping after
 Bangladesh , Pakistan’s candidacy carries heft at the world body
and it has mounted an election campaign. Still, nuclear-armed
Pakistan’s opposition to the start of talks on a treaty to ban
production of fissile material for nuclear weapons has created
frustration among voting UN members.  Kyrgyzstan, competing against Pakistan to replace Lebanon,
has said it’s open to extending U.S. military access to an air
base that supports NATO’s mission in  Afghanistan .  If elected, Pakistan will join archrival  India , also a
nuclear power. The neighboring countries, created by the
partition of British India in 1947, have gone to war three times
over the disputed territory of Kashmir. The last time they
served together in the council was 1977.  Mauritania, Morocco and Togo are vying for the two African
seats. Mauritania has the backing of the  African Union  while
Morocco is supported by  France , a former colonial power. Togo,
where most of the population is Christian, could get the upper
hand to avoid two African Muslim countries in the council.  Azerbaijan, Hungary and Slovenia are seeking to replace
Bosnia and Herzegovina.  The election of Azerbaijan, the only Muslim applicant for
the Eastern European seat, would be a long-shot and  would be a
pickup for the Palestinians that could offset the loss of
 Brazil , according to Laurenti.  Given that the votes are cast in a secret ballot,
surprising winners can emerge and it can also take several
rounds of voting to secure the necessary two-thirds majority.  In 2006, Guatemala and Venezuela slugged it out for 46
rounds before they both backed out and  Panama  was chosen as a
compromise. Guatemala’s willingness to withdraw from the race
then meant it was implicitly guaranteed a spot this time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in United Nations at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net ; 