-- 
Pharmasset Falls on Rival Abbott Hepatitis C Therapy Results

-- B y   P a t   W e c h s l e r
-- 
2011-10-21T20:20:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/pharmasset-falls-on-prospects-for-rival-abbott-hepatitis-c-drug.html
Pharmasset Inc. (VRUS) , developer of anti-
viral medicines, plunged today after  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  said
interim study results of its rival experimental hepatitis C
therapy showed high cure rates.  Shares of Pharmasset, based in Princeton,  New Jersey , fell
8.6 percent to $72.54 at the close of New York trading, the
biggest single-day decline in nine weeks. The company’s shares
have more than tripled this year.  Abbott, based in  Abbott Park ,  Illinois , told investors and
analysts today in New York that study results of its hepatitis C
drug combination found that patients with the liver infection
can be cured without adding interferon to treatment. Investors
had expected that Pharmasset’s treatment wouldn’t have
competition from a therapy that didn’t use interferon, said
 Howard Liang , an analyst at Leerink Swann in Boston.  “We are seeing there is another way of achieving a regimen
without interferon that looks like it will be competitive,”
said Liang in a telephone interview. “It will eventually all
boil down to who has the better data.”  New Pharmasset data isn’t expected to be available until
April, Liang said.  Abbott released early results of its trial, dubbed PILOT,
at the conference. The study found the hepatitis C virus was
reduced to undetectable levels in 41 of 42 patients after they
were treated with Abbott’s drug combination for three months. At
six months, nine of the 10 patients still being monitored showed
no sign of the virus.  Abbott Results  Abbott’s hepatitis C therapy promises to “dramatically
change the treatment landscape” for the disease, Richard Gonzalez, the company’s executive vice president for
pharmaceuticals, said at the investor conference.  “We’re on
track to show patient cure rates in the 90 percent range.”  The drugmaker told investors it would be able to get its
drug combination approved and to market by 2015. Pharmasset
hasn’t given a date for release. Abbott’s trial tested four
compounds, with each patient getting a combination of three.
Pharmasset uses two.  “The two-drug combination has a better chance of a very
clean safety profile,” Brian Skorney, an analyst at Brean
Murray Carret & Co. LLC in  New York , said in a telephone
interview. “I continue to believe Pharmasset’s will be
better.”  Richard E.T. Smith, Pharmasset’s vice president of  investor
relations  and corporate communications, failed to return a
telephone call placed to the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pat Wechsler in New York at 
 pwechsler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  