-- 
Polish Rates May Be Held for ‘Extended Period,’ Zielinska Says

-- B y   M o n i k a   R o z l a l
-- 
2011-10-21T05:28:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/polish-rates-may-be-held-for-extended-period-zielinska-says.html
The Polish central bank may keep
 interest rates  unchanged “for an extended period” of at least
through March as they are adequate amid slowing economic growth
and fast inflation, said policy maker Anna Zielinska-Glebocka.  The rate-setting Monetary Policy Council left the benchmark
seven-day interest rate unchanged for a third meeting at 4.5
percent on Oct. 6 because it’s “an appropriate level” under
present economic conditions, she said in an Oct. 19 interview in
Warsaw. “It would be safe to say” rates will be kept unchanged
through the first quarter of next year, she added.  “There’s no need to make changes in the next few months or
even quarters,” she said. “If nothing extraordinary is
happening in the economy, rates should be held steady for an
extended period, which would be in keeping with our monetary
policy guidelines.”  Central banks across the region have been weighing
faltering growth prospects with weaker currencies. Hungary kept
its benchmark interest rate steady for an eighth month on Sept.
20, while the Czech central bank followed suit two days later.  Investors on the  derivatives market  bet two months ago on
an interest-rate cut as the euro-area’s slowing economy hurts
demand for Polish exports, damping growth. An 11.2 percent slump
in the zloty against the euro and a 20 percent decline to the
dollar in the third quarter prompted the Narodowy Bank Polski to
support the currency and erased expectations that borrowing
costs will drop.  ‘Wait and See’  Nine-month forward rate agreements are now trading 28 basis
points below the three-month Warsaw Interbank Offered Rate,
indicating bets on a rate cut by July.  With wages rising faster than inflation and price growth
near 4 percent, a rate cut can be ruled out, said Zielinska-
Glebocka, who doesn’t expect a “deep” economic slowdown and
forecasts the Polish economy will expand by no less than 3
percent next year.  “Slower growth, combined with the effects of previous rate
increases, should allow us to stick to a “wait-and-see”
approach for some portion of next year, so long as nothing bad
happens to the currency or on the financial markets,” she said.
“I don’t see room for a rate cut in any of the more plausible
scenarios.”  Inflation was 3.9 percent in September, staying above the
central bank’s 2.5 percent target for more than a year even
after four rate increases this year by the central bank totaling
1 percentage point.  Policy makers may support a rate increase if “anything
happens on international markets or with the zloty  exchange rate 
that would require policy tightening.”  Buying Zloty  The central bank sold foreign currency on Sept. 23 to
strengthen the zloty, first time since the exchange rate was
allowed to move freely in April 2000, after the zloty slumped to
27-month low. It stepped into the market two more times in the
three following weeks. The Polish currency lost about 10 percent
against the euro in the third quarter.  The zloty closed at 4.4099 per euro yesterday, having
weakened 1.6 percent from the previous day.  “The main risk is still the exchange rate, even though
it’s been more stable lately,” she said. “In the near future,
politics may also play an important role because some investors
are waiting for the prime minister’s policy speech outlining the
new government’s financial strategy, which could provoke a
reaction from the  ratings agencies .”  Prime Minister Donald Tusk won an unprecedented second term
in elections this month on pledges to cut the budget gap to
bolster the zloty as investors shy away from the European
Union’s biggest eastern country.  Zielinska’s comments follow similar statements from other
rate setters. Zyta Gilowska said on Oct. 11 a rate cut would
“premature” as inflation remains fast and the zloty is set to
weaken, while Andrzej Bratkowski said a week later rate
increases are more likely than cuts as the economic slowdown
will be only “shallow and short.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monika Rozlal in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  