-- 
Posco to Cut Spending, Costs After Quarterly Profit Slides

-- B y   S u n g w o o   P a r k
-- 
2011-10-21T10:43:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/posco-quarterly-profit-drops-on-currency-loss.html
Posco (005490) , the world’s third-biggest
steelmaker, will cut spending and reduce costs after third-
quarter profit slumped 75 percent from a year earlier as demand
for the alloy used in cars and buildings weakened.  The steelmaker said it will lower its planned spending for
this year by 18 percent to 6 trillion won ($5.2 billion) after
reporting today net income fell to 248.5 billion won in the
three months ended Sept. 30 on a parent basis. Posco will also
cut costs by 1.4 trillion won compared with 1 trillion won
proposed previously, the Pohang, South Korea-based company said.  Steel prices are falling as a slowing global economy cut
demand in countries including  China  and  India , squeezing the
profits of steelmakers. ArcelorMittal, the world’s largest
steelmaker, plans to save $1 billion next year by idling some
European plants and moving production to cheaper alternatives.  “I don’t think next year would be any better than this
year,” Posco President Choi Jong Tae told investors in  Seoul 
after the earnings announcement. “Things are getting worse
because of the European debt crisis and the U.S. economic
slowdown. The steel market will remain weak in the fourth
quarter, but we will make our utmost efforts to be profitable.”  Global steel demand may rise 6 percent this year as the
global economy slows, and prices may continue to weaken, Posco
said today. Consumption growth may ease to 6.5 percent in 2011
after expanding 15 percent last year, the World Steel
Association said on Oct. 12.  Steel Prices  Shares of Posco have dropped 26 percent in Seoul trading
this year, compared with the 10 percent loss in the local
benchmark  Kospi index. (KOSPI)  The stock rose 0.3 percent to end at
360,500 won, before the earnings announcement.  Posco’s domestic average selling prices for benchmark hot-
rolled coils probably fell to 910,000 won in the third quarter
from 926,000 won in the second quarter, and may decline further
to 890,000 won in the last three months of the year, according
to Sungmee Park, an analyst at Citigroup Global Markets Inc.  The company doesn’t plan to cut output or change product
prices, it said today.  Earnings were also eroded by a 10 percent drop in the
Korean won against the U.S. currency in the third quarter. Posco
incurred about 1.08 trillion won in currency losses on a
consolidated basis in the third quarter, compared with 208
billion won in foreign-exchange gains a year earlier, according
to the earnings statement.  A depreciation of 1 percent in the local currency against
the dollar cuts Posco’s 2012 net income estimate by 3 percent,
Citigroup’s Park said in a report on Oct. 13.  “The fourth quarter is going to be tough,” said Kim Jae
Dong, the Seoul-based head of equity at SEI Asset Korea Co.,
which manages about $5.6 billion in assets. “The demand-side
situation looks fragile with signs of  China’s economy  moderating
and the global economy slowing. The steel market is likely to
remain weak through the first half of next year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sungwoo Park in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net . 