-- 
Princeton Merger Vote Tests Christie’s Attempt to Shrink Towns

-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 
2011-10-21T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/princeton-merger-vote-tests-christie-s-attempt-to-shrink-towns.html
The two New Jersey municipalities
that share the Princeton name with the Ivy League university may
become the first test case of Governor  Chris Christie ’s campaign
to cut government costs by merging towns.  Residents of 1.9-square-mile Princeton Borough, which
includes the downtown shopping and dining area, and the
surrounding 16.6-square-mile Princeton Township will decide Nov.
8 whether to combine to save as much as $3.1 million a year.
Voters there have rejected consolidating at least three times in
the past 60 years, most recently in 1996.  This time, the proposal includes an offer from Christie to
help pay the merger costs. Christie, a first-term Republican, is
pushing New Jersey’s 566 municipalities to cede control to help
stem growth in property-tax bills that are the highest in the
U.S. The governor cut aid to towns last year and capped annual
increases in local taxes at 2 percent, forcing mayors to weigh
cost cuts including worker firings and program reductions.  “To remain status quo as two separate municipalities, we
will have no road map for taxpayer savings,” Township Mayor
Chad Goerner, 36, said in an Oct. 18 telephone interview.
“We’ll be faced with the question of whether we face higher
taxes or cut services.”  States including  New Jersey ,  Pennsylvania  and  Ohio  are
nudging local governments to share more services or merge, as
towns and cities struggle with falling revenue and rising
expenses. Property-tax collections, the main income source for
municipalities, dropped 1.2 percent to $88.5 billion in the
second quarter from a year earlier, the third-straight decline,
the U.S. Census Bureau  said  last month.  Cost Savings  Christie on Sept. 30 said he supports the Princeton
consolidation effort and proposed covering 20 percent of the
total $1.7 million cost.  “I believe these efforts to consolidate in Princeton can
be an example for other municipalities seeking savings and
efficiencies under the 2 percent property-tax cap,” Christie,
49, said in a statement.  Borough Mayor Mildred Trotman said in that statement that
while she had never supported consolidation in the 49 years she
has lived in Princeton, she now believes that consolidation is
in the best interest of her residents.  Town Divides  Princeton, located halfway between  New York City  and
Philadelphia, was settled in 1696. For a few months in 1783, it
was the nation’s capital. In 1894, the township’s center seceded
amid a dispute over school funding. They remained two even after
a resolution that consolidated their classrooms.  “It seems like an inefficient way to run a town that
basically operates under one name and that everyone on the
outside thinks of as one community,” Van Zandt Williams, a
borough homeowner for 31 years who majored in chemistry and was
president of the Princeton Class of 1965, said in a telephone
interview. “Having been trained as a scientist, I would say
nothing changes unless it somehow gets perturbed.”  Both Princetons voted for incumbent Democrat  Jon Corzine  in
his unsuccessful 2009 re-election bid against Christie,
according to state election records. The borough, with about
12,300 residents, has a median home value of $619,700 and
 household income  of $106,551. The township, with about 16,300
people, has a median home value of $760,900 and household  income 
is $105,662, according to data from the municipalities.  New Jersey’s median household income is $68,444, the
second-highest in the U.S., and home value is $356,800, while
the national average is $50,221 for income and $185,400 for home
value, Census Data  show .  Debt Service  Princeton borough has $51 million of debt outstanding,
while the township has $56.1 million, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. If they merge, their debt would be  combined  and
spread over all taxpayers in the consolidated unit, according to
a report from the Center for Governmental Research, a Rochester,
New York-based nonprofit organization that advised Princeton on
consolidating.  Debt-service requirements won’t be altered under the plan,
 Standard & Poor’s  said in a September report. The company rates
the borough AA+, the second-highest investment grade, and the
township its top AAA.  The two already share more than a dozen services including
animal control, solid waste and fire. They have their own  police
departments , each with 30 sworn personnel. In both cases, police
is the largest cost, $3.5 million in the borough and $3.8
million in the township, according to the center’s report. Their
2010 budgets combined totaled $65.1 million.  College Town  Princeton University , located across both municipalities
and the largest taxpayer for both, doesn’t take a position on a
merger, said Robert K. Durkee, the school’s vice president and
secretary. Durkee, 64, who lives in the township and works in
the borough, declined to give his personal view on the issue.  “We’ve been in Princeton for something like 265 years,”
Durkee said of the university in a phone interview Oct. 14.
“It’s our responsibility to work with them as collaboratively
as we can. We’ll stay out of the discussion. Let them decide.”  While the university’s grounds are tax exempt, its
residential property is taxed. The school pays $11.2 million in
taxes to both localities, and also makes a voluntary payment in
lieu of taxes to the borough of $1.2 million a year. This year
the university agreed to give the township a one-time payment of
$500,000.  Consolidating the borough and township would save $201 for
the average borough property, and $240 for the average township
property, according to the Center for Governmental Research,
which put total savings at $3.1 million in about three years.
The average residential property owner pays $3,222 in municipal
taxes in the borough and $3,596 in the township.  Tax Bills  Borough Councilman David Goldfarb, a legal assistant who
cast the only “no” vote when a 10-member joint municipal
commission  recommended  merging, said the savings total $1.98
million when factoring in the cost of extending trash collection
to the township.  Goldfarb, 57, a borough resident for 30 years and council
member for 21, said consolidation would have “very little
impact” on property-tax bills because the municipal portion is
less than 25 percent of the total; the rest comprises county and
school taxes.  The average total property-tax bill last year was $15,255
in the borough and $16,212 in the township, more than double the
state average of $7,576, according to  data  from the New Jersey
Division of Local Government Services.  Tax pressures “are going to remain whether we consolidate
or not,” Goldfarb said.  2013 Start  Both municipalities must accept the merger proposal for it
to pass. If approved, Princeton would become consolidated on
Jan. 1, 2013, after a transition. In 1996, the measure passed in
the township and failed in the borough.  Some borough residents fear the needs of those who live
near the pedestrian downtown areas will be outweighed by voices
in the larger, more rural township, said Alexi Assmus, a 16-year
resident and organizer of  Preserve Our Historic Borough .  “The surrounding suburb, which has two times the voters as
the walkable center of town, will dominate, with the needs of
people who are ‘drive-in, drive-out,’” Assmus said. “There are
needs here that will not be the needs of a larger combined
municipality.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  