-- 
Putin, Assad May Be Unnerved by Qaddafi Killing, McCain Says

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-10-21T17:18:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/putin-assad-may-be-unnerved-by-qaddafi-killing-mccain-says.html
Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  and other “dictators” may be “nervous” after the death
of  Libya ’s Muammar Qaddafi, U.S. Senator  John McCain  said.  “I think dictators all over the world, including Bashar al-Assad, maybe even Mr. Putin, maybe some Chinese, maybe all of
them, may be a little bit more nervous,” McCain said in an
 interview  with the British Broadcasting Corp. late yesterday.
“It’s the spring, not just the Arab spring.”  Qaddafi was killed yesterday after an eight-month armed
conflict that left thousands dead.  Putin, 59, a former KGB officer who has been in power since
2000, may be at the helm for as long as 24 years after deciding
to seek a return to the Kremlin next year to replace his
protege, President  Dmitry Medvedev , a former corporate lawyer.
This would make Putin Russia’s longest-serving leader since the
 Soviet Union ’s  Josef Stalin .  “It’s very possible that you will see people protesting a
government that is clearly one that is not democratic in a
fashion that I think the Russian people had the hopes and
aspirations for once the Soviet Union collapsed,” said McCain,
the Arizona Republican who was his party’s presidential
candidate against Democrat Barack Obama in 2008.  Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov dismissed the
comments by McCain, who criticized Putin and called for Russia’s
expulsion from the Group of Eight industrial nations during the
U.S. presidential campaign three years ago.  McCain’s ‘Phobias’  “This isn’t the first time we have heard such exotic
remarks from Mr. McCain,” Lavrov said in an interview today
with three Russian  radio stations . “I don’t think they deserve
serious comment. He’s got his phobias.”  Russian citizens “always have a choice” in selecting
their leaders, Putin said in an interview with Russian state
television, broadcast on Oct. 17. He also said he wants his
ruling United Russia party to keep its dominant role in the
country in December legislative elections.  Putin centralized power and sidelined opposition after
becoming president in 2000, with pro-government parties now
controlling 87 percent of seats in parliament, including a two-
thirds majority held by United Russia.  He stepped down in 2008 after serving the maximum two
consecutive terms as president and became prime minister. Putin
will run in March presidential elections and Medvedev, 46, may
become premier as he will lead the  United Russia  list in the
Dec. 4 parliamentary election.  ‘People Won’t Understand’  Russia may risk unrest similar to the wave that shook the
 Middle East  unless Medvedev stays in the Kremlin,  Igor Yurgens ,
an adviser to the president, said in January after Tunisia’s
former President Zine El Abidine Ali fled to  Saudi Arabia  amid
protests sparked by rising food costs and unemployment.  “People won’t understand why Russia can’t choose a new,
more modern-looking person who is more open to the outside
world,” Yurgens, who heads a research institute set up by
Medvedev, said in an interview on Jan. 17. “Everyone is fed up
at seeing the same face.”  Putin has a popularity rating of 49 percent, down from a
peak of 70 percent in 2008, according to the  latest poll  carried
out by the Public Opinion Foundation, also known by its Russian
acronym FOM. The survey, based on interviews with 3,000 people
Oct. 15-16, was published yesterday. No margin of error was
given.  Obama’s approval rating remains at a low of 42 percent,
according to a Washington Post-ABC News poll released on Oct. 4.
The poll was conducted Sept. 29 to Oct. 2 among 1,002 adults
with a margin of sampling error of plus or minus four percentage
points.  McCain, who has co-sponsored legislation that would impose
a U.S. visa ban and asset freeze on Russian officials guilty of
human rights abuses, said Putin may face “significant” unrest.  “I cannot predict an armed uprising or anything like that,
but I can certainly see significant protests in a lot of
countries,” he said when asked about what may happen in  Russia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  