-- 
PV Crystalox Plummets in London After Cutting Sales Outlook

-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a   a n d   T o d d   W h i t e
-- 
2011-10-21T15:47:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/pv-crystalox-may-drop-after-saying-it-can-miss-shipment-target.html
PV Crystalox Solar Plc (PVCS) , a maker of
components for solar panels, slumped to a record in  London  after
reducing its sales outlook and announcing job cuts because of
weaker-than-expected demand in Germany, the biggest panel
market.  The stock fell 42 percent to 7.54 pence at the close of
trading, the lowest since the shares were first sold in 2007.
The Oxfordshire, U.K.-based manufacturer of silicon ingots and
wafers has lost 86 percent of its value this year and is worth
31.4 million pounds ($50 million).  Solar-equipment makers are struggling to offset slumping
demand in  Europe , where Germany, France and  Italy  cut subsidies
to cap booming installations. They’re also under pressure from
Chinese manufacturers that expanded production capacity just as
demand slowed, causing wafer, cell and module prices to plummet.  “It’s brutal out there,” said company Board Secretary
Matthew Wethey in a phone interview. “Wafer prices have dropped
56 percent on the  spot market  since April.” Wafers are turned
into solar cells, which are fastened to panels.  Tumbling prices across the supply chain have failed to
provoke the pick-up in demand that the company anticipated.
Full-year shipments of photovoltaic products will be in a range
of 360 to 390 megawatts, down from the 400 to 450 megawatts
forecast on Aug. 18, the company said today in a filing.  Weaker Recovery  “The anticipated recovery in PV end-market demand
stimulated by lower module prices has been weaker than expected
in the second half of 2011, particularly in Germany,” PV
Crystalox said in the statement.  The company said it would temporarily suspend production at
its polysilicon facility in Bitterfeld,  Germany , and reduce
output at its U.K. ingot and German wafer plants to cut costs.
This will lead to “significant job losses” in the U.K. and
short-time working in Germany, the company said.  Wethey couldn’t say how many jobs would be cut. PV
Crystalox will go through a “consultation period” with its 140
employees in the U.K., he said.  Companies in the industry had hoped that Germany, which
added a record 7,400 megawatts of panels last year, would see a
sales jump in the third and fourth quarters before a feed-in-
tariff reduction there in January. PV Crystalox said a year-end
rally “does not appear to be materializing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net ;
Todd White in Madrid at 
 twhite2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  