-- 
Transport Shares May Outperform as U.S. Consumer Spending Rises

-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 
2011-10-21T04:01:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/transport-shares-may-outperform-as-u-s-consumer-spending-rises.html
Companies transporting holiday
merchandise may outperform the stock market as a rise in
 consumer spending  indicates seasonal shopping may be better than
forecast.  Retailers were cautious when they placed orders this summer
amid concerns the economy was “falling apart” and headed for a
double-dip recession, said David Ross, a Baltimore-based
transportation analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. Even though
September retail sales rose the most in seven months, shares of
trucking and airfreight companies still reflect pessimistic
forecasts, he said.  “There is a greater chance of a positive holiday-shopping
surprise than a negative one,” said Ross, who maintains “buy”
ratings on  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  and  Old Dominion Freight
Line Inc. (ODFL)  If retailers are caught short after under-ordering,
the peak shipping period -- typically July through September --
will occur later, he said.  The Bloomberg U.S. Asset-Heavy Trucking Index -- which
includes  Werner Enterprises Inc. (WERN)  and  Con-way Inc. (CNW)  -- fell 26
percent between July 21, 2010, and Sept. 22, 2011, while the
Russell 2000 Index rose 5 percent, Bloomberg data show. The
Bloomberg U.S. Integrated Transportation Index -- made up of UPS
and  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  -- fell 2 percent in the same period, compared
with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gain of 6 percent.  Transportation companies are tied to consumers because they
deliver goods to retailers, said Michael A. Gayed, chief
investment strategist at Pension Partners LLC. With demand
beginning to improve, “investors may revise up their
expectations for holiday sales,” which could cause “a V-shaped
reversal in the relative performance of trucking stocks, like we
saw in early 2008,” said Gayed, whose New York firm oversees
$140 million in assets.  Christmas Spending  The trucking index has increased 19 percent since September
22, compared with 8 percent for the  Russell 2000 . The index
consisting of FedEx and UPS has risen 13 percent, while the S&P
is up 8 percent. Transport stocks will outperform even more as
Christmas-spending forecasts improve, because investors “are
still discounting recession-like conditions,” Gayed said.  A holiday rush seems more likely following the 1.1 percent
rise in September retail sales, the most since February, said
 Ryan Sweet , a senior economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in  West
Chester ,  Pennsylvania . Employers also added 103,000 workers in
September, the Labor Department said, more than the median
forecast of 60,000 in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  ‘Relatively Resilient’  “During the third quarter, the economy outperformed
expectations and the consumer played an important role in
that,” Sweet said, adding that Americans “remain relatively
resilient.”  U.S. gross domestic product climbed at a 1.3 percent annual
rate in the second quarter, after almost stalling with a 0.4
percent gain in January-March, Commerce Department data showed.
GDP will rise 1.7 percent this year and 2 percent in 2012,
according to the median estimates of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Third-quarter GDP data is scheduled to be
released Oct. 27.  Lower gasoline prices are providing households with some
relief. Since peaking at $3.99 a gallon in May, the average
price of regular unleaded has fallen 13 percent to $3.47,
according to Heathrow, Florida-based AAA, the largest U.S.
motoring organization. This may spur spending, explaining why
“consumers are heading into the holiday-shopping season with
decent momentum,” Sweet said.  Best Black Friday  Retailers may have their best Black Friday in history, said
C. Britt Beemer, chairman of America’s Research Group in
Charleston,  South Carolina . About 54 percent of households plan
to shop the day after Thanksgiving, according to the consulting
company’s survey of 1,000 consumers. Never in its 25 years of
collecting the data has the share reached 50 percent, he said.  While companies are likely to roll out deals to lure
customers on one of the busiest shopping days of the year, some
may have kept supplies of holiday merchandise too lean to
accommodate what could be a “super aggressive Black Friday,”
Beemer said.  The ratio of retail inventories to sales was 1.34 in
August, near the all-time low of 1.33 in January through April
of this year, data from the U.S. Census Bureau show.  Declines in the inbound-container volume at both the  Los
Angeles  and Long Beach ports indicate retailers have been
bracing for a less-than-stellar holiday season, said  Kevin Sterling , an analyst with BB&T Capital Markets in Richmond,
Virginia.  Falling Imports  Imports fell 4 percent in September from a year earlier,
after dropping 9.4 percent in August and 2.3 percent in July,
Bloomberg data show.  “The window is quickly closing for Christmas freight
delivered via ocean,” Sterling wrote in an Oct. 19 report.
“Even a small increase in consumer demand could tighten air-
freight capacity, driving up pricing and profit for the air-
cargo industry.”  FedEx and UPS are likely to benefit, said Sterling, who
maintains “buy” ratings on the companies.  Memphis , Tennessee-
based FedEx cut its full-year profit forecast to between $6.25
and $6.75 a share, 10 cents lower than the previous range, when
it reported first-quarter earnings Sept. 22. Atlanta-based UPS
reports third-quarter results Oct. 25.  While a holiday rush would boost sales, an “advertising-
driven Christmas” might force retailers to compete in offering
the best deals, which would hurting their bottom lines, Beemer
said.  Retail Priced In  Retail stocks also aren’t likely to experience a big bump
because they “significantly outperformed” during the past
three years, Gayed said. The SPDR S&P Retail Exchange-Traded
Fund has risen 200 percent since Nov. 18, 2008, compared with
the S&P 500 ETF’s 40 percent gain. “Any upside holiday surprise
in earnings and revenue is most likely already priced in,” he
said.  Whether Americans will be ready to spend remains to be
seen, as some Federal Reserve districts reported “many
retailers were reluctant to build inventories ahead of the
holiday season, pointing to recent declines in  consumer
confidence ,” the Fed said in its Oct. 19 Beige Book report.
Confidence in the economic outlook reached its lowest level
since February 2009 in the week ending Oct. 16, based on the
Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index.  The job market’s “poor performance” is depressing
optimism, Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told Congress’s Joint
Economic Committee on Oct. 4. The  unemployment rate  held at 9.1
percent in September and has been above 9 percent for 27 of the
past 29 months, Labor Department data show.  Still, “the holiday-shopping season should be decent, but
unspectacular,” as consumers find ways to splurge by dipping
into savings or making other sacrifices, Sweet said.  “Consumers aren’t acting like they say they feel,” Sweet
said. “They may be on better footing this holiday season than
previously anticipated.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in New York at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Feld at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net  