-- 
Treasury 30-Year Bonds Fall Amid Optimism on European Debt Crisis Progress

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-10-21T21:22:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/treasuries-set-for-weekly-gain-as-solution-to-europe-s-debt-crisis-delayed.html
Treasury 30-year bonds fell for a
fourth day as optimism that European leaders will move closer to
a resolution of the region’s sovereign debt crisis sapped demand
for the safety of U.S. government securities.  The long bond’s yield touched the highest since Oct. 17 as
European leaders began a six-day battle over how to save  Greece 
from default, shield banks from the fallout and build more
powerful defenses against the crisis. Stocks climbed.  Federal
Reserve  Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  said a third round of large-
scale asset purchases by the central bank may become necessary.  “We’ve seen the market under pressure as there’s a new
round of enthusiasm that  Europe  will get their act together,”
said  Brian Edmonds , head of  interest rates  at Cantor Fitzgerald
LP in New York, one of 22 primary dealers that trade Treasuries
with the Federal Reserve. “To the extent that something
credible comes out of Europe, the long end is where the selling
is going to be.”  Thirty-year yields climbed five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 3.26 percent at 5:17 p.m.  New York  time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. They touched 3.28
percent and fell to as low as 3.19 percent. The price of the
3.75 percent securities maturing in August 2041 slid 31/32, or
$9.69 per $1,000 face amount, to 109 7/32.  Yields on 10-year notes rose three basis points to 2.22
percent after rising earlier to 2.24 percent and falling to 2.16
percent. They decreased three basis points this week in their
first five-day loss since Sept. 23, the day they dropped to a
record low 1.6714 percent.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 1.9 percent as
investors sought higher-yielding assets.  Yield Premium  The extra yield investors get to buy 30-year bonds instead
of two-year notes widened to as much as 3 percentage points, the
most compared with closing levels since Sept. 20.  Yellen said another round of bond purchases under
quantitative easing might become warranted if needed to boost a
 U.S. economy  challenged by unemployment above 9 percent and
financial turmoil.  “Securities purchases across a wide spectrum of maturities
might become appropriate if evolving economic conditions called
for significantly greater monetary accommodation,” Yellen said
today in a speech in Denver.  The central bank already purchased $2.3 trillion in debt in
two rounds of quantitative easing to spur the economy. In
August, it pledged to hold interest rates near zero until at
least mid-2013, and last month it said it would swap $400
billion of short-term debt in its portfolio for longer-term
securities to bring down interest rates. Economists dubbed the
strategy Operation Twist after a similar program in the 1960s.  Mortgage Bonds  Fed Governor Daniel Tarullo yesterday called in a speech in
New York for resuming large-scale purchases of mortgage bonds.  The Fed  bought  $4.6 billion of Treasuries today due from
November 2019 to August 2021 under Operation Twist.  Dallas  Fed President  Richard Fisher  said the program is
benefiting financiers and not aiding  job creation . It has “so
far been of greater benefit to traders and large monied
interests than to job-creating businesses,” Fisher said today
in a speech in Dallas.  The Treasury will auction $99 billion of notes in three
sales next week: $35 billion of two-year securities, an equal
amount in five-year debt and $29 billion in seven-year notes. It
sold the same amounts of the maturities last month.  Two Summits  Euro region finance ministers met today, followed by
ministers from all 27 European Union countries tomorrow. EU and
euro-area leaders gather on Oct. 23, with a second summit
scheduled for Oct. 26.  European governments may deploy as much as 940 billion
euros ($1.3 trillion) to fight the debt crisis, seeking to break
a deadlock between Germany and  France  that is forcing leaders to
hold two summits within four days.  Talks on combining the EU’s temporary and planned permanent
rescue funds as of mid-2012, while scrapping a ceiling on
bailout spending, accelerated this week after efforts to
leverage the temporary fund ran into European Central Bank
opposition and provoked the French-German clash, two people
familiar with the discussions said. They declined to be
identified because political leaders will have to decide.  Treasuries have lost 0.9 percent in October in what would
be their biggest monthly drop this year, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch data show. Their return of 6.4 percent in the third
quarter was the biggest since the fourth quarter of 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  