-- 
Red Sox’s David Ortiz Chosen 2011 Winner of MLB’s Roberto Clemente Award

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-10-21T04:00:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/red-sox-s-david-ortiz-chosen-2011-winner-of-mlb-s-roberto-clemente-award.html
Boston   Red Sox  designated hitter
 David Ortiz  was chosen as the winner of the 2011 Roberto Clemente Award, given to the Major League Baseball player who
displays humanitarian efforts.  Ortiz, 35, was selected from a list of 30 nominees for the
award, named for the 12-time All-Star and Hall of Famer.
Clemente died in a plane crash while trying to deliver supplies
to earthquake victims in Nicaragua in 1972.  “David’s remarkable commitment to helping children receive
essential pediatric care in the  United States  and the Dominican
Republic makes him a wonderful choice for this honor,” MLB
Commissioner Bud Selig said in a statement last night before
Game 2 of the  World Series  between the St. Louis Cardinals and
 Texas Rangers . “The legacy of the great Roberto Clemente lives
on through the selfless actions of players like David and so
many of his peers.”  In 2005, Ortiz founded the David Ortiz Children’s Fund that
raises money to help give children access to critical pediatric
care in his native Dominican Republic and the U.S. The fund
formed a partnership with Massachusetts General Hospital for
Children and last year raised more than $1.5 million to pay for
more than 200 life-saving heart operations in New England.  Last year, Ortiz also donated food and medical supplies to
help the relief effort after the earthquake in Haiti.  “It’s humbling to be associated with all the tremendous
names that have won this award in the past, and I look forward
to continuing to do my part to maintain Roberto Clemente’s
legacy,” Ortiz said in a statement.  Vera Clemente, the widow of Roberto Clemente, called Ortiz
“a great choice” and a “deserving candidate.”  ‘Very Proud’  “The hands-on work he has done over the years and the
money he has donated in Boston, Haiti and the  Dominican Republic 
is a wonderful example for all players, and I know Roberto would
have been very proud of his selection,” she said.  In his 15-year career with the  Minnesota Twins  and the Red
Sox, Ortiz owns a .283 batting average with 378 home runs and
1,266 runs batted in, a .378 on-base percentage and a .544
slugging percentage. Ortiz, who has the most home runs and RBIs
of any designated hitter in MLB history, contributed to Boston’s
World Series championship clubs in 2004 and 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  