-- 
Triguboff Says RBA Rate Cut Forecasts Drawing More Home Buyers

-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 
2011-10-21T04:25:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/triguboff-says-rba-rate-cut-forecasts-drawing-more-home-buyers.html
Harry Triguboff, founder and
managing director of closely held  Meriton Pty ,  Australia ’s
biggest apartment developer, comments on Chinese demand for
Australian homes, the Reserve Bank of Australia’s monetary
policy and his expectation for the housing market. Triguboff
spoke at an event in Sydney.  “We’re very lucky that  China  adores us. But of course,
this is not their home. Their home is in China. And even though
we’re very successful in selling to solely Chinese now, I always
am fighting -- not that I need to because there are so many
Chinese -- to get the Australians into the market. The market is
good when the local people are in it and believe in it and
support it. These  interest rates  make it impossible for people
to buy.  “The  Reserve Bank  is going to cut interest rates. They’ve
created a momentum; it’s very hard to stop the momentum. Just as
they’ve started talking that rates will come down, we see more
Australians trying to buy. They have the money, but they’re
cautious. Once they know that interest rates are not going up,
they’ll come up.  “We never know when there’s going to be a boom, nobody
ever knows. The prices have been quite steady and rents have
been going up. If interest rates go down, prices should go up.
If prices fall, I’ll probably build less, and keep more.  “I keep most of my properties. If you keep the properties
in this country,  capital gains  is there but you don’t pay tax.
You only pay tax on the rent. And you don’t pay all the tax on
the rent because you have depreciation. That’s the beauty of my
business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  