-- 
Ringgit Completes Weekly Decline on Europe Crisis; Bonds Steady

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 
2011-10-21T08:41:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/ringgit-set-for-weekly-decline-on-europe-crisis-bonds-decline.html
Malaysia ’s ringgit had its first
weekly decline this month as investors reduced holdings of
emerging-market assets on concern there will be no quick
solution to  Europe ’s debt crisis.  The currency fell the most in a month today ahead of a
meeting of European leaders in Brussels on Oct. 23 that had been
the deadline for an agreement to end the crisis. Another summit
to be held on Oct. 26 was announced yesterday after Germany and
France said the European Union needs more time to seal a
“global and ambitious” accord. Malaysia will report around 5
p.m. local time that inflation was steady in September at 3.3
percent, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  “Everybody is waiting for the outcome of the EU summit
this weekend,” said Ahmad Zubaidi Samse, a foreign-exchange
trader at Bank Muamalat Malaysia Bhd. in  Kuala Lumpur . “Our
central bank will maintain the current  interest rate  at the same
level until the second half of next year.”  The ringgit dropped 0.8 percent to 3.1540 per dollar this
week as of 4:36 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. It fell 0.9 percent today. The currency has
advanced 1.3 percent so far this month after slumping 7 percent
in September, the worst monthly loss since June 1998.  Bank Negara Malaysia meets next month after holding its
overnight policy rate steady at 3 percent on Sept. 8.  Government bonds  were unchanged this week. The yield on
Malaysia’s 3.434 percent bonds due August 2014 was at 3.16
percent, according to Bursa Malaysia. The rate dropped one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 