-- 
Roche Seeks ‘Targeted Acquisitions,’ Not Abbott-Sized Deal

-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 
2011-10-21T12:03:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/roche-seeks-targeted-acquisitions-not-abbott-sized-deal.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG)  will maintain a
strategy of “targeted acquisitions” and isn’t seeking a mega-
merger, Chief Executive Officer Severin Schwan said in comments
that may rule out a bid for  Abbott Laboratories (ABT) ’ prescription-
drug spinoff.  “We’ve focused on smaller, bolt-on acquisitions,” Schwan
said in an interview today in  Frankfurt  when asked whether an
acquisition of a portion of Abbott’s business is attractive.
“That’s how I see us continuing in our M&A strategy. We are not
interested in mega-mergers. We are interested in very targeted
acquisitions which complement our technologies and portfolios.”  Abbott said on Oct. 19 it would split into two companies,
one selling medical products and a prescription-drug unit fueled
by Humira, an anti-inflammatory with $6.5 billion in annual
sales. Dependence on Humira may reduce Abbott’s attractiveness
as the drug may face competition next year from a new Pfizer
Inc. medicine,  Jack Scannell , a London-based analyst for Sanford
C. Bernstein Co., wrote in a report today.  “With the long-term future of Humira likely tailing off,
we are hard-pressed to see the U.S. and European major drug
companies we cover wanting to snatch up Humira and the other $10
billion worth of Abbott products,” Scannell wrote.  Abbott’s prescription-drug business may be worth $45
billion, said Jeffrey Holford, a London-based analyst for
Jefferies Group Inc. Roche, Merck & Co. and  Bayer AG (BAYN)  are
potential buyers, Holford said Oct. 19. Merck and Bayer declined
to comment yesterday.  Out of Fashion  Merck and Roche have therapies similar to Humira that
probably would prevent them from bidding, Scannell said, nor do
Abbott’s late-stage experimental medicines have certain enough
prospects to provide a rationale for a bid. Big mergers between
drug companies also seem to be out of fashion, in part because
they have hurt research productivity, the analyst said.  Consolidation is ahead for the  drug industry , however,
Schwan said today. He divided companies into three camps:
generic-drug makers, which need to be big to compete on
economies of scale; truly innovative companies, with some
smaller players still able to compete; and companies which
succeed at neither one or the other.  “Those people will not survive,” Schwan said. “With only
marginal innovation, in today’s world, with today’s cost
pressure, this is just not a recipe for survival. Those players
will just disappear. Either they go bankrupt or they will be
bought up or consolidate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  