-- 
Romanian Central Bank May Adjust Conditions Prudently, Popa Says

-- B y   K a t y a   A n d r u s z   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 
2011-10-21T16:29:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/romanian-central-bank-may-adjust-conditions-prudently-popa-says.html
Romania ’s central bank may adjust
monetary conditions “gradually and prudently” on slowing
inflation, Deputy Governor Cristian Popa said.  Policy makers have room “to adjust broad monetary
conditions,” including the monetary policy rate, reserve-
requirement ratios and variations in the exchange rate, as
inflation slows to about 3 percent next year, within the bank’s
target band of 2 percent to 4 percent, Popa said in an interview
in Warsaw today. It’s “likely that we’ll want to adjust
monetary conditions gradually and prudently.”  Eastern European central banks have kept rates on hold on
expectations inflation will slow and economies will weaken
because of slowing economic growth in western  Europe , the
region’s main importer of goods. The  Banca Nationala a Romaniei 
kept the European Union’s main rate at 6.25 percent for an 11th
meeting on Sept. 29, refraining from a cut that would spur
capital outflows and weaken the leu.  “With inflation broadly in line with our forecast and
looking at the balance of risks, which is still skewed upwards
but appears more moderate than in previous forecasting rounds,
there is some space for gradually adjusting broad real monetary
conditions,” Popa said. The central bank’s next rate-setting
meeting is scheduled for Nov. 2.  Slowing Inflation  Romania’s inflation rate fell more than expected in
September to the lowest level in two decades, giving policy
makers scope to cut the EU’s highest borrowing costs. Annual
consumer-price growth slowed to 3.45 percent from 4.25 percent
in August, the  National Statistics Institute  said on Oct. 11.  “Inflation will continue to decline from its present level
into the first half of 2012, but it will thereafter pick up to
some extent because the base effect will reverse,” Popa said.  The central bank may intervene to stem excess  exchange-rate 
volatility, which “would not be desirable,” because a stronger
currency would harm exporters, while a weaker leu won’t help
offset weaker demand for the country’s goods, he said.  “The exchange rate has undergone some depreciation, but to
a far smaller extent than other regional currencies,” Popa
said. “We retain the capacity to intervene if it’s deemed
necessary and appropriate, in line with our managed float
regime, and we have tended to react in the exchange-rate market
when there has been excess volatility.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katya Andrusz in Warsaw at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  