-- 
Romney Hints at Boosting Iowa Campaign as Staff Quietly Works

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-10-21T04:00:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/romney-hints-at-boosting-iowa-campaign-as-staff-quietly-works.html
Republican presidential candidate
 Mitt Romney  hadn’t set foot in Iowa, host of the campaign’s
first nominating contest, in more than two months. That doesn’t
mean he isn’t competing in the state.  “I will be here again and again campaigning,” he told an
audience in Sioux City yesterday. “I’d love to win in Iowa.”  Romney’s comments offer a clear signal that he’s running
hard -- albeit under the radar -- in the state.  His campaign is considering whether to ratchet up its
presence in Iowa, the state that marked the beginning of the end
of Romney’s presidential aspirations during his 2008 run.  While trying to keep expectations low, campaign aides say
an intense focus on the economy could offer Romney opportunities
to make a strong showing in the Iowa caucuses.  “Clearly he is in the game,” said David Oman, a former
chairman of the Iowa Republican Party who is supporting Romney
after backing former Arkansas Governor  Mike Huckabee  in 2008.
“The times sometimes suggest what you need in a president.”  Romney lost the state’s Republicans in 2008 after the
socially conservative voters who dominate the party’s caucuses
took issue with his past support for abortion rights and
Massachusetts health-care law when he was governor.  This year, social conservatives have yet to rally around
one candidate, leaving the possibility that they could divide
their support, creating an opening for Romney to make a strong
showing in the Jan. 3 caucuses.  No Ethanol Subsidies  During his visit yesterday to Western Iowa, the most
socially conservative part of the state, Romney largely stayed
focused on economic issues, particularly those of importance to
the corn-fueled  Iowa  economy.  “I’m a friend of ethanol,” he said, expressing support
for the fuel even while saying he wouldn’t continue federal
subsidies for the industry. “We should recognize the importance
of ethanol as a domestic fuel and as an alternative to buying
energy from other nations.”  Romney traveled in friendly terrain, addressing small-
business owners and heads of industry associations from areas he
largely won during his last run. In appearances before business
leaders, he touted his background in private industry and joked
about his lack of experience in rural issues.  “Having spent 25 years in business I understand
business,” he told a rancher in Treynor. “I only spent one
summer on a ranch.”  Party Activists  Though he’s visited the state infrequently this year,
Romney has kept in touch with the business community. He’s held
two conference calls with party activists in Iowa and plans more
in the future.  Still, with just four campaign aides in Iowa, his presence
is a shadow of what it was during the last campaign, when he
poured in $10 million and employed dozens in the state.  He opted out of participating in a party straw poll on Aug.
13, an event on which he expended considerable resources in
2007. Representative  Michele Bachmann  of  Minnesota  won it.  Instead, he has focused his efforts largely on  New
Hampshire , where he owns a vacation home, while keeping efforts
in Iowa alive mainly through a network of volunteers.  So far, that’s been enough to keep Romney on top in the
polls. A survey  conducted  by NBC News/Marist earlier this month
showed Romney holding a slight advantage among likely Republican
caucus-goers, leading former Godfather’s Pizza chief executive
Herman Cain by 23 percent to 20 percent.  Personal Presence  Romney’s limited presence, however, may not be enough to
make a strong showing in the caucuses, said Doug Gross, the
candidate’s 2008 campaign chairman in Iowa who has remained
neutral this year.  “They’re starting to organize more aggressively,” said
Gross. “But a physical candidate presence will be required.”  Other candidates also are working to expand their
organizations in the state.  Cain said yesterday he had won the backing of Steve Grubbs,
a former state party chairman in Iowa, as his chairman there. In
the past, Grubbs has worked for presidential candidates
including Bob Dole,  Steve Forbes  and Tommy Thompson.  “We know that we will need a strong, ground-based
organization to do well in Iowa,” Mark Block, Cain’s campaign
chief of staff, said in a statement.  Tony Beck, owner of several pizza restaurants across the
state, said that while he found Cain’s outspoken positions
interesting, he thought Romney’s private business experience has
improved his chances in the state since the last campaign.  “Frankly, the last time it was that religious thing that
hurt him,” he said of Romney’s Mormon faith, after hearing
Romney speak in Council Bluffs. “The biggest thing everyone
should be focusing on now is the economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Lisa Lerer in Council
Bluffs, Iowa at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 