-- 
Rove-Inspired Party Switch Leads to Perry Presidential Candidacy

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-10-21T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/rove-inspired-change-in-party-leads-to-perry-s-2012-presidential-candidacy.html
The way  Karl Rove  saw it in 1989,
 Rick Perry  made the perfect candidate to go far in Texas. There
was one problem: Perry was a Democrat.  The political strategist set about to solve that issue,
recruiting Perry -- who had endorsed then-Democratic Senator Al Gore for president the year before -- to switch his partisan
loyalties and help build the Republican Party in Texas.  Perry, an anti-government spending, pro-gun stalwart who
felt his party drifting from his values, was open to the idea.
And it turned out Rove was right. Perry’s partisan change of
heart led to statewide office, including his ranking as the
longest-serving Texas governor.  It also set him on a path to the 2012 presidential campaign
trail, where he is claiming the sharpest contrast with President
 Barack Obama . Yet to his opponents, Perry’s Democratic past is
becoming Exhibit A in the case against his professed
authenticity.  Former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney  and Minnesota
Representative  Michele Bachmann  have both criticized him during
nationally televised debates this month for backing Gore, and
Representative  Ron Paul , a fellow Texas Republican, in a
television ad called Perry “Gore’s Texas cheerleader.”  Perry, 61, defends his political transformation as a common
one for Southern Democrats who became Republicans after their
party strayed from conservative principles on taxes, welfare,
abortion and guns. “He’s always said the party left him,” said
Perry spokesman Mark Miner. Perry “was more conservative as a
Democrat than people like Mitt Romney ever were as
Republicans.”  An Aberration  Perry has publicly dismissed his support for Gore as an
aberration. “I came to my senses,” Perry has said, adding
during the Oct. 11 debate that he “came to the  Republican Party 
sooner in age than” former President  Ronald Reagan . Perry was
37 when he switched parties, Reagan 51.  While philosophical differences with the  Democratic Party 
influenced his decision, there were practical considerations.  The governor and other lawmakers “saw they were going to
have a hard time getting elected in those areas as a Democrat,
and they saw that the statewide offices were going to start to
topple,” said Matthew Dowd, a Republican strategist today who
was a Democratic operative in Texas when Perry made the partisan
switch.  An Opportunity  “Rick saw an opportunity that he could get elected
statewide, and the path to it seemed to be as a Republican,”
added Dowd, who is now an analyst for Bloomberg Television.  Perry came of age on his parents’ tenant cotton farm in
Haskell County, Texas, about 200 miles northwest of  Dallas ,
where Republicans were so rare the party didn’t hold primaries.
He graduated from Texas A & M University in  College Station , and
joined the  Air Force  before running as a Democrat for the state
legislature.  Elected in 1985, Perry’s opposition to  government spending 
led Donald “Gib” Lewis, then the Democratic speaker of the
Texas House of Representatives, to tap him for the
appropriations committee, where he joined a group of lawmakers
known as “pit bulls” for their resistance to budget requests.  Perry did vote for a $5.7 billion tax increase in 1987 that
most Republicans opposed -- a measure that the  Club for Growth ,
an anti-tax group in  Washington , says was at the time the
largest state tax increase in American history, hiking levies on
sales, cigarettes, hotel occupancy and franchises.  Tax Cuts  Miner, Perry’s spokesman, said that one vote should not be
a measure of his career and philosophy. “You have to look at
the overall record,” he said, adding that Perry has slashed
taxes as governor.  There were other ways Perry drew distinctions with
Republicans. On Jan. 5, 1988, he was one of several Texas
Democratic lawmakers to endorse Gore, who was courting southern
endorsements by touting a pro-military agenda. Perry didn’t work
for the Gore campaign, as his opponents have charged; he and
about two dozen other Democrats merely signed on as supporters.  Gore was running in a Democratic primary that also featured
Massachusetts Governor Michael Dukakis, Missouri Representative
Richard Gephardt and Illinois Senator  Paul Simon , all of whom
championed an expanded federal government.  “At the time in his career,  Al Gore  was the moderate-
conservative Southern Democrat,” Miner said.  Gore Endorsement  Gore’s progressive side -- his support for environmental
protections and government regulations -- was hardly hidden.
Just three months before Perry’s endorsement, former Senator
Albert Gore Sr. told the Washington Post that once his son “has
won the nomination, people will see the other side of his record
come through: his work on the environment, on chemical waste, on
standards for  infant formula , on the  ozone layer .”  The younger Gore, who was not available to comment for this
story, told  USA Today  in an interview published Sept. 9 that he
was happy to have Perry’s support. “I don’t know what has
happened to him since then,” Gore said, adding that it would be
up to voters to “make their own interpretation of his
explanation for his extreme shift in views.”  What happened, Perry has said, is that he felt distant from
the party in which he’d been raised. Democrats were increasingly
under pressure to back unions, tax increases and cuts in
military spending, said one person close to Perry who discussed
his party-switch on condition of anonymity because he was not
authorized to detail it.  Rove’s Role  Rove, who would go on to orchestrate former President
 George W. Bush ’s political rise, teamed with Perry’s political
consultant David Weeks to sell Perry on the idea of switching
parties, and enlisted the help of several recently converted
Democrats, including Phil Gramm and Perry’s fellow legislator
Kent Hance.  In his 2010 book “Courage and Consequence: My Life as a
Conservative in the Fight,” Rove, who declined through a
spokeswoman to be interviewed, wrote that he and Weeks “talked
him into switching parties and running for the GOP nomination
for agriculture commissioner.”  Perry initially refused, saying he wanted to try to change
the Democratic Party rather than leave it. “He was hoping that
it would turn around and the Democrats would move back toward
the middle,” said Hance, now chancellor of  Texas  Tech
University.  In a telephone call the day before he announced his party
switch at the state capitol, Lewis said Perry told him,
“‘Politics is changing, and peoples’ philosophy is changing,
and I just feel that’s the way I should go,’” Lewis recalled.  No More ‘D’  When Perry made the announcement he said he would “vote
the same convictions,” according to a report in the Texas
Tribune. “The only difference is there will be an ‘R’ beside my
name.”  Perry, who had fought in the legislature against proposed
pesticide regulations, entered the agriculture commissioner race
and in 1990 defeated Democrat Jim Hightower, who had pressed for
more stringent pesticide rules.  “Perry didn’t have to switch parties over any kind of
ideology -- it was opportunism,” said Hightower, who argues
that Perry’s closeness with the chemical lobby drove his
decision to become a Republican and make a play for the
agriculture post. “He’s always looked to who’s buttering the
biscuits.”  Perry’s timing was fortuitous; within six years, every
statewide office in Texas would be held by a Republican. He
would on go to become lieutenant governor and then governor,
after Bush was elected president.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  