-- 
Rupee to Rebound 3 Percent From 30-Month Low on Rates, SEB Says

-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 
2011-10-21T08:06:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/rupee-to-rebound-3-percent-from-30-month-low-on-rates-seb-says.html
India ’s rupee, the worst-performing
currency in Asia this year, will rebound more than 3 percent
from a 2 1/2-year low touched today as the central bank raises
 interest rates , according to Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB.  Investors should buy the currency once it falls to 50.30
per dollar, targeting a “near-term” advance to 48.60, the
Swedish lender said in a research note today. The rupee fell as
much as 0.9 percent to 50.245 today, the weakest level since
April 2009, amid speculation  Europe ’s debt crisis will hurt the
region’s economies, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The rupee
may pare the losses as European policy makers make progress in
resolving the region’s credit problems, according to SEB.  The  Reserve Bank  of India will raise its benchmark rate to
8.50 percent from 8.25 percent at a meeting on Oct. 25,
according to 13 of 19 economists in a Bloomberg survey. Six
predicted no change. The central bank lifted borrowing costs six
times so far in 2011 to cool inflation, boosting the yield
advantage on local assets. Rates on 10-year sovereign notes
climbed to a three-year high of 8.84 percent today, widening the
extra yield over Treasuries to 6.6 percentage points.  “We expect improvements in risk sentiment in the near-term
on back of our view that EU policy makers will not disappoint
the market significantly and macro data will surprise on the
upside in  Asia  in the near-term,” Sailesh K. Jha and Bharti
Bhargava, Singapore-based analysts at SEB, wrote. “In addition,
RBI credit policy review will also help” strengthen the rupee,
they said.  Worst Performer  Investors should quit the trade if the rupee weakens to
50.8, according to Jha and Bhargava. The Indian currency has
declined 11 percent this year, the most among Asia’s 10 most-
traded currencies. It fell past 50 today for the first time
since May 2009 and lost 2.5 percent this month.  France  and Germany’s finance ministers will meet in
Brussels today to lay the groundwork for an Oct. 23 summit of
European policy makers that will consider solutions to the debt
crisis. Another summit for Oct. 26 was set yesterday after
 Germany  and France said the EU needs more time to seal a
“global and ambitious” accord.  The Reserve Bank’s repurchase rate will rise to 9 percent
by March next year as India struggles to contain the fastest
inflation among Asia’s 10 biggest economies, Jha, who is head of
Asia market strategy at SEB, said in a phone interview today.
Gains in the wholesale-price index have averaged 9.6 percent so
far in 2011, government data show.  The rupee weakness this month was driven by factors
including capital outflows from the local stock market and an
increase in dollar demand from the nation’s oil importers, which
will reverse in the next few weeks, SEB said in the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 