-- 
Rupee Weakens Past 50 Against Dollar Spurring Speculation RBI May Step In

-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 
2011-10-21T13:21:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/rupee-weakens-past-50-a-dollar-for-first-time-since-may-2009.html
India ’s rupee fell past the 50 per
dollar level for the first time in more than two years and
stocks dropped for a second day on concern the central bank’s
fight against inflation will damp economic growth.  The currency and the BSE India Sensitive Index of shares
completed the worst week in a month after Finance Minister
 Pranab Mukherjee  said Oct. 19 India’s growth in the year through
March may miss estimates. The  Reserve Bank of India  will boost
borrowing costs for a seventh time this year on Oct. 25 to cap
prices, according to a Bloomberg survey of economists. Global
funds sold a net $72 million in Indian equities this month,
exchange data show, on concern  Europe ’s debt crisis will worsen.  “The growth outlook has weakened and inflation remains
stubbornly high,” said  Jonathan Cavenagh , a Singapore-based
senior currency strategist at Westpac Banking Corp. “European
investors invested a lot of capital in Asia when the 2008
financial crisis eased and now there is concern they will pull
this back.”  The rupee slid 0.4 percent today and 2 percent this week to
50.0250 per dollar in Mumbai, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It touched 50.3238 earlier, the lowest level since
April 2009. The currency has declined 10.8 percent this year,
the worst performance among Asia’s 10 most-traded currencies.  The Sensex fell 151.25, or 0.9 percent, to 16,785.64. The
gauge lost 1.7 percent this week. The S&P CNX Nifty Index on the
National Stock Exchange of India declined 0.8 percent today to
5,049.95.  Inflation, Rates  The RBI will raise its repurchase rate by a quarter-
percentage point to 8.5 percent next week, according to 13 of 19
economists in a Bloomberg survey. Six expect no change. Food
inflation in India accelerated to 10.6 percent in the week ended
Oct. 8 from a year earlier, the fastest rate since April,
government data showed yesterday.  Growth in India’s industrial production has slowed this
year as borrowing costs climbed. Factory output gained an
average 6.5 percent in the first eight months of 2011, compared
with 10.7 percent a year earlier, government data show.  “There is a concern that industrial production is
sagging,” Chakravarthy Rangarajan, chairman of the Prime
Minister’s Economic Advisory Council, said in  New Delhi 
yesterday. “When inflation remains at a level which is way
above what is considered to be acceptable, then the monetary
authority has a major responsibility to contain inflation, and
that becomes the primary focus of the monetary policy.”  Europe’s debt turmoil has prompted investors to favor the
relative safety of the dollar over emerging-market assets. The
Sensex has slid 18 percent this year and the Dollar Index, which
measures the U.S. currency’s performance against six major
trading partners, rose 2.9 percent.  ‘Scope for Disappointment’  “There’s some scope for disappointment over the Euro zone
plan; we have still got a number of major obstacles to
overcome,” Robert  John Parker , a senior adviser at Credit
Suisse Asset Management, said in an interview with Bloomberg UTV
today.  The rupee also dropped as gold and oil importers increased
purchases of dollars ahead of public holidays next week, said
Kamlakar Rao, head of foreign-exchange trading at state-run
Allahabad Bank. Local financial markets are shut on Oct. 26 and
27 for the Diwali festival, when Indians traditionally buy
precious metals.  Offshore forwards indicate the rupee will trade at 50.96 to
the dollar in three months, compared with expectations for a
rate of 50.41 yesterday and 49.69 at the end of last week.
Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and
date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  Intervention Speculation  The  Reserve Bank  may intervene in the market to curb the
rupee’s losses if it falls past 50.35 a dollar, according to J.
Moses Harding, an executive vice president at IndusInd Bank Ltd.
in Mumbai. Central banks buy and sell foreign currencies to
influence exchange rates.  Investors should buy the rupee once it falls to 50.30 per
dollar, targeting a “near-term” advance to 48.60, according to
Sailesh K. Jha, Singapore-based head of Asia strategy at
Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB.  “We expect improvements in risk sentiment in the near-term
on the back of our view that European Union policy makers will
not disappoint the market significantly and macro data will
surprise on the upside in  Asia ,” Jha wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 