-- 
Saab, Sotskombank, A-Tec, Japan Property Statistics: Bankruptcy

-- B y   A n t h o n y   A a r o n s
-- 
2011-10-21T11:50:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/saab-sotskombank-a-tec-japan-property-statistics-bankruptcy.html
Saab Automobile’s chances of
avoiding bankruptcy dwindled after the two Chinese companies
that had agreed to invest in the company instead offered to buy
it for a token sum, people with knowledge of the matter said.  Pang Da Automobile Trade Co. and Zhejiang Youngman Lotus
Automobile, which had planned to buy a combined 53.9 percent
stake in Saab’s parent Swedish Automobile NV, made the offer
after speaking to the person overseeing Saab’s court-
administered reorganization, said the people, who declined to be
identified discussing the private talks.  The two Chinese companies had previously offered to invest
245 million euros ($338 million) to help Saab stave off
bankruptcy. The about-face is the second blow to Saab’s efforts
to turn around the carmaker after the company said yesterday the
court administrator plans to terminate the reorganization,
possibly forcing Saab to exit creditor protection.  “If the Chinese are not prepared to pay a reasonable value
for it, the shareholders and creditors are better to let it wind
up,” said  Howard Wheeldon , a senior strategist at Bgc Partners
LP in  London . “So much damage has been made to the brand anyway
these last six months, and it wasn’t doing well before it
imploded. The end is now definitely nigh.”  Swedish Automobile dropped as much as 10 cents, or 12
percent, to 75 cents and was down 1.2 percent as of 11:57 a.m.
in Amsterdam trading. The stock has dropped 76 percent this
year, valuing the Zeewolde, Netherlands-based company at 24.8
million euros.  Saab, which has produced few cars since it first halted
production in March because of a lack of money, avoided
bankruptcy last month after a Swedish court granted the
voluntary reorganization.  Saab has turned down the offer from Pang Da and Youngman
and insisted that the two stick to the original agreement, the
people said.  Eric Geers , a Saab spokesman, declined to comment.  “Any plan is possible during the process of
reorganization,” Pang Qinghua, chairman of Pang Da, said in a
telephone interview. “It’s possible for new proposals popping
up during the process.”  “All three parties are trying to find the most beneficial
plan,” Pang Caiping, executive director of Youngman’s passenger
gar group said by telephone.  Ukraine’s Central Bank Decides to Liquidate Sotskombank  Ukraine’s central bank said it decided to liquidate PAT KB
Sotskombank after it failed to restore financial stability
following the 2008 global credit crisis.  The Kiev-based Natsionalnyi Bank Ukrainy appointed Nataliya Khorolenko as a temporary administrator to assume control at
Sotskombank in order to stabilize it in March 2009. She will now
supervise the liquidation process, the central bank said on its
website.  Ukrainian banks were shaken by the global financial crisis,
which dried up credit and weakened regional currencies. The
former Soviet republic was forced to seek an International
Monetary Fund bailout to support its financial industry.  Ukraine was in the process of liquidating 20 banks as of
Oct. 5, according to central bank data.  A-Tec Sells Motor Unit to  China ’s Wolong Investment Group  A-Tec Industries AG (ATEC) , the insolvent Austrian engineering
company, sold 98 percent of its ATB electric drive unit to
China’s Wolong Investment GmbH, a subsidiary of the Asian
nation’s Wolong Group, A-Tec’s bankruptcy administrator said
Oct. 19 in a statement.  Sevan Sells Vessels, Stake to Teekay to Avoid Bankruptcy  Sevan Marine ASA (SEVAN)  agreed to sell its three floating oil
production and storage vessels and new shares to  Teekay Corp. (TK) ,
as well as convert about $124 million of unsecured bonds to
equity, to avoid bankruptcy.  Teekay will pay $668 million for the Voyageur, Piranema and
Hummingbird vessels and $25 million for a 40 percent stake,
Arendal, Norway-based Sevan said Oct. 18. Sevan will also raise
$25 million in a sale of stock to existing share- and
bondholders. Unsecured bondholders will receive Sevan Marine’s
29 percent stake in Sevan Drilling ASA.  Sevan Marine has struggled with larger-than-expected
maintenance costs on its Voyageur unit. The company has been in
talks with bondholders to stave off bankruptcy after reaching an
agreement in July to defer interest until the end of September.  “The crisis has found a happy solution,” Chairman Jens Ulltveit-Moe said by telephone. “The creditors have got a
significantly better settlement than if Sevan had declared
bankruptcy.”  The deal will see Teekay and existing shareholders end up
with 40 percent each and unsecured bondholders with 20 percent.
Teekay, a Vancouver-based oil tanker company that transports
about 10 percent of the world’s seaborne oil, also operates
FPSOs through its Petrojarl unit, which it took control of in
2006.  Japan Property Bankruptcies to Rise in 2012, Researcher Says  More Japanese property companies may file for bankruptcy in
2012 as banks become more selective to improve their balance
sheets as the outlook in the U.S. and  Europe  deteriorates,  Tokyo 
Shoko Research Ltd. said.  About 500 real estate companies may go under next year, up
from about 450 this year, according to estimates by Nobuo Tomoda,  executive director  at Tokyo Shoko. A total of 441 went
bankrupt in 2010, the data showed. The Topix Real Estate Index
fell the most in more than three weeks.  Japanese banks may seek to improve their balance sheets by
cutting back on riskier loans amid concern that the outlook for
the  U.S. economy  will worsen and the European debt crisis may
drag on, prompting them to limit the number of property
companies they lend to, Tomoda said. Suncity Co., a condominium
developer with 25 billion yen ($325 million) of debt, filed for
 bankruptcy protection  on Sept. 26 after it failed to get
extensions on loans, according to a statement.  “We have entered a period with the highest probability of
bankruptcies,” Tomoda said in an interview in Tokyo. “We are
likely to see some real estate companies go bust all together.”  Japan ’s top seven developers have a 51 percent share of the
apartment market in Tokyo as of 2010, an increase from 30
percent three years earlier, according to a report by  Masahiro Mochizuki , an analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG.  The nation’s real estate market picked up in 2007 when
investment into property funds nearly doubled to 11 trillion
yen, according to STB Research Institute Co. That prompted
developers to buy more land, and companies including Suncity
were left with more debt than they could repay after the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008.  “Financing is much more crucial for real estate companies
in comparison with other sectors,” Tomoda said. “Without
funding, real estate can’t be brought. And without properties,
there’s nothing to sell.”  The smaller real estate companies may be hurt by banks’
decisions to cut back on loans, prompting a higher number of
bankruptcies even as the total debt of companies that go under
may drop this year and next, he said.  Almost one in three of the 159 publicly traded property
companies in Japan have debt that’s more than twice their
equity, a level that needs to be monitored closely for
bankruptcies next year, Tomoda said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 