-- 
Sarkozy’s ‘Stormy’ Week Brings Baby, Europe Debt Disputes With AAA Risk

-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 
2011-10-21T14:17:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/sarkozy-s-stormy-week-brings-baby-european-debt-disputes-with-aaa-risk.html
Nicolas Sarkozy  has reasons other
than his first daughter’s birth to remember this week: Clashes
with his two biggest neighbors, a warning that France may lose
its top  credit rating  and polls showing he won’t be re-elected.  “It’s been a stormy time, a bit of a Bermuda triangle,”
said  Laurent Dubois , a professor at the Paris Political Studies
Institute. “It’s a real challenge for Nicolas Sarkozy, for his
record as the incumbent president. He needs to succeed during a
full-blown economic crisis, the likes of which we’ve never seen
before in the euro zone.”  The French president, whose wife had a baby girl on Oct.
19, is battling Germany’s  Angela Merkel  on the use of European
Union rescue funds and was snubbed by Italian Prime Minister
 Silvio Berlusconi  in the latter’s choice for the head of the
Bank of Italy.  Standard & Poor’s  said France risks losing its
AAA debt rating on the deepening financial crisis, while two
polls showed Sarkozy would lose to his Socialist rival in the
May 2012 presidential vote.  The confluence of the events threatens to weaken Sarkozy
before he hosts the Group of 20 leaders’ summit on Oct. 23, with
European governments negotiating a plan to unleash as much as
940 billion euros ($1.3 trillion) to fight the debt crisis.  Sarkozy, whose financial institutions have the most to lose
from a potential contagion if  Greece  defaults, is trapped
between two conflicting challenges: German opposition to
 France ’s preferred solution for beefing up  Europe ’s rescue
toolkit while at the same time risking a credit rating cut as a
result of boosting the firepower of the region’s bailout funds.  Widening Spreads  The yield on France’s 10-year bonds climbed today to 3.2
percent from 2.6 percent at the end of September. That put the
difference with German equivalents at 118 basis points, the
widest since 1992, before the 1999 creation of the euro, based
on Bloomberg data.  France and Germany have differed on bolstering the rescue
funds for the region and its banks, a disagreement that prompted
Sarkozy to head to a crisis meeting in  Frankfurt  the day his
daughter was born. The 440 billion-euro European Financial
Stability Facility has spent or committed about 160 billion
euros, including loans to Greece running for up to 30 years.  Sarkozy wants to create a bank out of the EFSF, boosting
its financial clout with backing from the  European Central Bank ,
a proposal  Germany  rejects.  Split on ECB  “Everyone knows the reticence of the central bank and
everyone also knows of the reticence of the German position,”
French Finance Minister  Francois Baroin  said Oct. 19 in
Frankfurt at the impromptu meeting of euro leaders. “For us it
is and will remain the most effective position. The Americans do
it, the British do it.”  The clash with Germany forced the scheduling of a second
summit for Oct. 26, three days after the deadline set by Group
of 20 finance chiefs for a debt-crisis fix.  The fund’s tasks include recapitalization of banks and
buying bonds in primary and secondary markets.  At the end of March, French financial firms had $672
billion in public and private debt in Greece, Portugal, Ireland,
 Italy  and Spain, according to Basel, Switzerland-based Bank for
International Settlements. That’s the biggest exposure to the
euro-area’s troubled countries and almost a third more than
German lenders.  Credit Metrics  France’s increased contribution to the rescue fund together
with its slowing economy may threaten its AAA rating. The
country is among euro-region sovereigns likely to be downgraded
in a stressed economic scenario, S&P said in a report today.  “Ballooning budget deficits and bank recapitalization
costs would likely send government borrowings significantly
higher,” S&P analysts led by Chief Credit Officer Blaise Ganguin in Paris wrote in the report. “Credit metrics would
deteriorate sharply as a result.”  Two days after the split with Germany emerged, Italy’s
Berlusconi wrong footed Sarkozy in the nomination of Ignazio Visco to run the  Bank of Italy . The French president had
expected Berlusconi’s choice to make room for a Frenchman on the
ECB’s Executive Board.  The Italian premier had indicated he may choose ECB
Executive Board member Lorenzo Bini Smaghi for the post, freeing
up a seat for France. Sarkozy had made removing Bini Smaghi from
the board a condition of his support for the Italian Mario Draghi’s candidacy to succeed the Frenchman  Jean-Claude Trichet 
at the central bank helm.  French Representative  “The French obviously feel they should have a French
member” on the board “and this nomination doesn’t solve the
problem,”  Marc Ostwald , a fixed-income strategist at Monument
Securities Ltd. in  London , said in an e-mail.  What’s more, two polls this week show that Sarkozy’s
Socialist Party rival  Francois Hollande  will beat him by a large
margin in the April-May elections next year.  Hollande would win 62 percent and Sarkozy 38 percent in a
run-off, a poll by CSA for BFM TV and RMC radio showed on Oct.
19. Another survey by BVA for Orange, La Presse Regionale and
RTL radio showed Hollande winning 64 percent to 36 percent.  In the face of all the challenges, Sarkozy -- whose new-
born daughter Giulia is his fourth child -- can still prevail if
he shows he’s the right man for France and for Europe, CSA
pollster Jerome Sainte-Marie said.  “Sarkozy wants to paint his ability to manage the crisis
as his main strength, to present himself as the only one who is
capable, who has the experience, determination and energy to
find an end to the crisis,” said Emmanuel Riviere, a political
director at pollster TNS Sofres. “This is something that will
be very important in the next four or five months.’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  