-- 
Scania Third-Quarter Profit Beats Estimates

-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 
2011-10-21T09:13:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/scania-third-quarter-profit-beats-estimates.html
Scania AB (SCVB) , the Swedish truckmaker
controlled by  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , reported third-quarter profit that
beat analysts’ estimates as demand for heavy trucks held up.  Net income rose 2 percent to 2.34 billion kronor ($350
million) from 2.31 billion kronor a year earlier, the
Soedertaelje, Sweden-based company said in a statement today.
Twelve analysts surveyed by Bloomberg estimated a 2.07 billion-
krona profit. Sales rose 14 percent to 21.1 billion kronor.  “This quarter shows still a pretty good order uptake for
the company,” said Morten Imsgard, an analyst at Sydbank A/S in
Aabenraa, Denmark, with an “underweight” rating on Scania’s
shares. “Going into 2012 they probably don’t expect much growth
in the market but still a level of sales that will be kept up by
demand for replacing aging trucks.”  Third-quarter orders gained 22 percent to 18,894 trucks and
buses, the manufacturer said. Scania plans to lower production
at European factories by as much as 15 percent beginning next
month as demand for commercial vehicles drops, it said Oct. 10.
It will do so mainly by not extending the contracts of some 900
temporary workers in  Europe , it said today.  “It highlights the flexibility of the Scania production
system, and I think they’re right to move in that direction to
avoid building up large stockpiles of trucks,” Imsgard said.
“They’re trying to be ahead of the curve.”  Scania rose as much as 3.4 percent to 106 kronor and was up
2.4 percent at 105 kronor as of 11:10 a.m. in  Stockholm . The
stock has dropped 32 percent this year, valuing the manufacturer
82.8 billion kronor.  MAN Merger  “Deliveries have generally held up,” Chief Executive
Officer Leif Oestling said in the release. “However, demand for
vehicles decelerated towards the end of the period, primarily in
southern Europe.”  Scania is considering a merger with  MAN SE (MAN)  in  Germany  to
create Europe’s largest manufacturer of commercial vehicles.  Scania was first among European truckmakers to publish
third-quarter figures. Swedish rival  Volvo AB (VOLVB)  will report Oct.
25.  Daimler AG (DAI) , the world’s largest truckmaker, is scheduled to
publish figures Oct. 27, while MAN SE is Nov. 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  