-- 
Scene: Druckenmiller, Donaldson, Julian Robertson, Many Lauders

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-10-21T14:21:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/scene-druckenmiller-donaldson-julian-robertson-many-lauders.html
Tiger Management LLC’s  Julian Robertson  and William Donaldson, former chairman of the
Securities and Exchange Commission, dined together yesterday at
the  New York  Public Library’s Celeste Bartos Forum.  Also attending the Carnegie Medal of Philanthropy Awards
Luncheon were Citigroup Inc. Chairman Richard Parsons (who sat
with beauty executives and sisters Aerin and Jane Lauder); the
president of  Yale University , Richard Levin; Walter Isaacson,
who has written a biography of Steve Jobs; and Andrew Carnegie’s
great grandson, William Thomson, the honorary chairman of the
Carnegie Medal of Philanthropy Selection Committee.  The awards honor the example of philanthropy set by Andrew
Carnegie, who was born in Scotland and made his fortune in the
U.S. in railroads and steel. Twenty-three institutions
established by Carnegie nominate candidates for the award, which
has been given every two years since 2001.  A bagpiper led the procession of the 2011 recipients.  Fiona Druckenmiller accepted the award on behalf of herself
and her husband, Stanley,who didn’t attend. Their friend Ken Langone, co-founder of Home Depot, said they are an example not
just of time, talent and treasure but of having passion and
feeling for the causes they support: Stanley for the Harlem
Children’s Zone, and Fiona for the New York University Langone
Medical Center Neuroscience Institute.  Pierre Omidyar, chairman of  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  and co-founder of the
Omidyar Network, thanked his financial adviser, Michael Mohr,
and said he and his wife, Pamela, “learn new lessons every day
about what to do and what not to do” as philanthropists.  Accepting his award, Hong Kong industrialist  Li Ka-shing ,
chairman of Cheung Kong Holdings and Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. and
father of two, said pursuing philanthropy is “like having a
third son.”  Crowns, Danforths, Pews  The other award recipients were the Crown family of
 Chicago ; the Danforth family of  St. Louis , Missouri, whose
William H. Danforth built Ralston Purina Co.; Fred Kavli, whose
Kavlico Corp. makes aeronautic and automotive sensors; the Pew
family, arcing back to Joseph Newton Pew, creator of Sun Oil,
and his children, who established the Pew Charitable Trusts;
Leonard and Evelyn Lauder; Ronald and Jo Carole Lauder; and the
Pritzker family of Chicago.  The medalists were served Saint Andrew’s Absinthe and
Champagne Punch. The punch takes the name of the term  Mark Twain 
used to address  Andrew Carnegie  in a 1906 letter thanking him
for a gift of whiskey.  Other Scottish touches: purple tartan ribbons wrapped
around the napkins and bouquets of heather on the tables.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 