-- 
Schlumberger Profit Misses Estimates on Mideast Income Drop

-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 
2011-10-21T20:17:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/schlumberger-third-quarter-profit-misses-estimates-as-crude-oil-retreats.html
Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB) , the world’s
largest oilfield-services provider, reported third-quarter
profit that failed to meet analysts’ estimates as income from
the Middle East and  Asia  declined.  Net income fell to $1.3 billion, or 96 cents a share, from
$1.73 billion, or $1.38, a year earlier, Houston- and Paris-
based Schlumberger said in a statement today. Last year’s
quarterly result included one-time gains from Schlumberger’s
purchase of Smith International Inc.  Excluding merger and acquisition costs, the company earned
98 cents a share, 3 cents less than the average of 27 analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales climbed 49 percent to
$10.2 billion, about $3 million less than analysts’ estimates.  “The real miss versus our estimates was in the  Middle East 
and Asia,” said  John Lawrence , an analyst at Tudor, Pickering,
Holt & Co. in Houston, who rates the shares a “buy” and owns
none. “They were moving some crews around on the seismic side
in the Middle East.”  The Middle East and Asia region generated $2 billion in
revenue, a $75 million decline from the second quarter. Lawrence
said the 22 percent operating margin was less than the 25.5
percent he was expecting from the region.  Schlumberger, which has 31 buy and five hold ratings from
analysts, fell 1 percent to $67.38 at the close in  New York .
Before today, the shares had dropped 18 percent this year.  Estimates ‘Somewhat’ Optimistic  The company’s expected to post fourth-quarter earnings of
$1.20 per share, according to the average of 23 analysts’
estimates.  “The current estimates that we see are somewhat on the
optimistic side,” Chief Executive Officer Paal Kibsgaard told
analysts and investors today on an earnings conference call.  The company’s region that includes Europe, Africa and
 Russia  continue to be “burdened” by costs in and around  Libya ,
Chief Financial Officer Simon Ayat said on the call.
Schlumberger expects to resume “some activity” in the country
in the fourth quarter after work there remained shut down during
the period ending in September.  Oil Demand Outlook  Oil prices in New York had the largest quarterly drop since
the 2008 financial crisis, tumbling to a one-year low as signs
of slowing growth in  China , the U.S. and  Germany  heightened
concern that fuel demand will weaken. Futures contracts have
dropped 24 percent from a high of $113.93 a barrel on April 29.  “The current financial turmoil has already resulted in a
lower outlook for oil demand growth in 2012, although demand
growth is still expected to exceed that of 2011,” Kibsgaard
said on the call. “Recent production data, as well as forward
projections, indicate that there is a tight cushion of excess
oil supply that will continue to support activity.”  Provided there is no major impact from the European debt
crisis on its business, which Schlumberger hasn’t seen yet, the
company has “quite a positive outlook on the international
markets,” Kibsgaard said.  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , the world’s second-largest services
provider, reported adjusted earnings on Oct. 17 that beat
analysts’ estimates by 3 cents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
{David Wethe} in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  