-- 
Scotland Boosts Tidal-Power Subsidy, Cuts Aid for Biomass, Wind

-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g   a n d   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 
2011-10-21T12:30:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/scots-government-proposes-change-to-ros-bands-in-line-with-u-k-.html
The Scottish government plans to
increase subsidies for tidal energy while cutting support for
large-scale biomass plants and wind power under rules that force
utilities to get a share of electricity from renewable sources.  Projects that harness energy from the tides will get five
so-called Renewable Obligation Certificates, or ROCs, for each
megawatt-hour of power produced from 2013, the government said
today on its  website . That compares with three ROCs previously
offered.  A ROC is a tradable certificate awarded to utilities for
each megawatt of renewable-energy generation. The changes to the
ROC system in Scotland, which aims to get all its energy from
renewable sources by 2020, are part of a U.K.-wide review that
brings support for Scottish marine energy in line with  England .
The proposals are open to consultation until Jan. 13.  Scotland has the potential to provide as much as a quarter
of  Europe ’s tidal power and 10 percent of its wave power,
according to the government. More than 1.6 gigawatts of sites
have been leased to marine developers in Scottish waters,
including Marine Current Turbines Ltd., which won a permit in
April to build a plant in Kyle Rhea near the Isle of Skye.  The increase in subsidies “provides the underpinning
support we need for investment in our Kyle Rhea tidal array
project that will be offered to the market next month,” Andrew
Tyler, chief executive officer of Bristol, England-based Marine
Current, said today by e-mail.  Biomass Subsidy  For biomass,  Scotland  has proposed a cap on the size of the
plant receiving support. Smaller, more efficient facilities will
be eligible for 1.5 tradable certificates, with those producing
heat as well as power getting two ROCs until 2015 and then 1.9
in 2015-16. Plants above a certain generation capacity will
cease to get subsidies on concern the quantity of wood they need
may threaten forests and other industries that use them.  The government has “serious concerns” about the
sustainability of wood biomass used in larger  power plants ,
Energy Minister Fergus Ewing said in a statement. “U.K.
ambitions for large-scale electricity-only woody biomass plants
are an inefficient use of a finite resource,” he said.  In the wind-power industry, the government proposals reduce
support for land-based projects to 0.9 ROCs from 1. Offshore
wind farms will get two ROCs in 2014-15, 1.9 the following year
and 1.8 the year after that. The plan brings support for  wind
energy  in line with the rest of the U.K.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Louise Downing in  London  at 
 Ldowning4@bloomberg.net ;
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg in London at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net . 