-- 
Scotiabank Says ‘Opportune’ Time to Buy in Asia, Latin America

-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 
2011-10-21T04:02:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/scotiabank-s-porter-sees-opportune-time-to-buy-in-asia-and-latin-america.html
Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) , which has made
investments in more than 20 banks outside its native Canada over
the past six years, wants to continue acquiring in  Asia  and
 Latin America  as other lenders retreat.  “We view it as a very opportune time for banks such as
ourselves to be acquisitive,” said Brian Porter, group head of
international banking. “There are other banks out there
globally that are under pressure, and we’ll be opportunistic
when it makes sense for us.”  Scotiabank, which has operations in more than 50 countries,
has spent at least C$2.5 billion ($2.45 billion) on
international acquisitions including  Brazil , Peru, the Caribbean
and Chile. Over the last two months, the Toronto-based lender
announced agreements to spend another $1.7 billion in  China  and
 Colombia , including yesterday’s deal to buy a controlling stake
in a Colombian consumer lender.  Porter, 53, said the bank sees consolidation opportunities
in Asia and Latin America, without saying which is more likely
to yield agreements.  “I wouldn’t weigh one against the other,” said Porter, a
former chief risk officer who became head of international
banking last year. “M&A is messy; you can never control what
comes your way.”  Scotiabank, established in Halifax, Nova Scotia in 1832,
has expanded its global operations, which typically account for
20 percent to 30 percent of profit. The bank operated in
Kingston, Jamaica before it had a branch in Toronto, according
to its  website .  Banco Colpatria  Canada ’s third-biggest bank agreed yesterday to buy a 51
percent stake in Colombia’s Banco Colpatria Red Multibanca
Colpatria SA for about $1 billion, in its largest international
takeover. Porter said the bank will expand where clients such as
mining companies and property developers are doing business.  “We’re following our customers to Colombia and we’re very
excited about it,” Porter said in a phone interview yesterday.
“It’s a natural extension of our footprint and our strategy.”  Scotiabank executives told investors on a conference call
yesterday that the company may expand further in Colombia as
consolidation continues. Porter declined to name specific
targets.  The lender is also hosting a board of directors meeting
next week in Bangkok. Scotiabank and partner Thanachart Bank
paid C$2.2 billion last year to buy  Thailand ’s Siam City Bank
Pcl.  “It’s part of our evolving Asia-Pacific strategy,” said
 Porter , who has been with Scotiabank since 1981. “We felt it
was important to take the board to Thailand and really expose
them to the potential that we see for Thanachart Bank, and the
potential for economic growth within Thailand and where we’re
going.”  The lender is also waiting on regulatory approval to
increase its stake in China’s Bank of Xi’an to more than 18
percent from 14.8 percent. Foreign banks can own two 20 percent
stakes in Chinese banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 