-- 
Secretary Clinton Warns Pakistan on Harboring Militants

-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 
2011-10-21T09:44:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/secretary-clinton-warns-pakistan-on-harboring-militants-1-.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
said terrorists have operated in Pakistan for “too long,”
adding to an earlier warning that the nation will pay if it
fails to act against militants staging attacks on U.S. forces.  “The U.S. looks to Pakistan to deny insurgents safe
havens,” Clinton said at a news conference in Islamabad today.
“Terrorists have operated from Pakistan for too long.”  Clinton spoke today after she and top U.S. security and
intelligence officials met for four hours with Pakistani leaders
yesterday. Their session covered counter-terrorism and efforts
to heal relations between Pakistan and Afghanistan, said a U.S.
official speaking on condition of anonymity.  Clinton, who flew to Islamabad from Afghanistan, said
yesterday that Pakistan should “be part of the solution” and
not part of the problem by harboring militants and that the
country would pay “a very big price” if it doesn’t act on
those staging cross-border attacks against U.S. forces.  Clinton today is hearing from the Pakistani public at a
forum where she said the U.S. wasn’t at the stage where it could
enter a dialogue with militants in  Afghanistan .  “I don’t think we’ve really gotten to the talk talk phase
yet” of trying to engage militants, she said. “There may be no
appetite for talking on the other side.”  Clinton Delegation  Clinton’s delegation included Central Intelligence Agency
Director David Petraeus; chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff,
General Martin Dempsey; Lieutenant General Douglas Lute, a
special assistant to President  Barack Obama  on the Afghan war;
and  Marc Grossman , special representative to Afghanistan and
Pakistan. They were meeting with Prime Minister  Syed Yousuf Raza Gilani , General Ashfaq Parvez Kayani, the chief of army staff,
and Ahmad Shuja Pasha, head of the Inter-Services Intelligence
Directorate.  “We intend to push Pakistan very hard,” Clinton said at a
joint press conference with Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  before
leaving Kabul. “No one should be in any way mistaken about
allowing this to continue without paying a very big price,” she
said.  ‘Give Peace a Chance’  Gilani urged Clinton “to give peace a chance” during his
meeting with the U.S. delegation, according to a statement
issued by his office. The meeting’s atmosphere was “cordial and
frank” and Clinton “recognized the importance of Pakistan in
the context of peace and security in the region,” the statement
said.  The U.S. talks in Pakistan follow a year of heightened
tensions in U.S.-Pakistani relations, which spiked after the
U.S. commando assault into Pakistan that killed al-Qaeda leader
Osama bin Laden in May. Pakistani officials have said publicly
they worry that the U.S. might try a bigger military assault
into the country to attack bases of the guerrilla faction
founded by  Jalaluddin Haqqani .  Last month, Dempsey’s predecessor as U.S. military chief,
Admiral Mike Mullen, said the Haqqani faction of the Taliban
acts as a “veritable arm” of the ISI, Pakistan’s main spy
agency, and is fighting a “ proxy war ” in Afghanistan.  In the past week, U.S. troops have conducted an offensive
against the Haqqani group in eastern Afghanistan 10 miles (16
kilometers) from the faction’s headquarters in the Pakistani
town of Miranshah.  Media Reports  Pakistani media reports this week have reflected concerns
from Pakistan’s leadership in Islamabad that the anti-militant
operation may bleed over the border onto Pakistan’s territory,
threatening its sovereignty and relations with the U.S.  Pakistan’s media also aired widespread complaints among
Pakistani leaders that the scolding they were getting from the
U.S. side -- especially Mullen’s congressional testimony last
month -- was unwarranted.  “Hillary Harps on Do-More Theme,” blared a headline this
week in the online version of The Nation newspaper from
Islamabad.  The U.S. and Afghanistan say the Haqqani faction is
responsible for most of the recent high-profile attacks in
Kabul, including the attack on the U.S. embassy last month, the
attack on the Intercontinental Hotel in June, and earlier
attacks on the Kabul City Center shopping complex, the Serena
Hotel and the Indian Embassy.  Pakistan’s ambassador to  Washington ,  Husain Haqqani , who is
not related to the extremist group, said Oct. 19 that “Pakistan
and the  United States  have a shared interest in a stable
Afghanistan, but the major challenge for both the countries is
to find common ground” on how to achieve it.  Renounce Violence  Pakistan, Afghanistan and the U.S. must cooperate to fight
terrorists, talk to those militants who are willing to renounce
violence and build a better life for people on both sides of the
border, Clinton said.  Ties between Afghanistan and Pakistan, always rocky, hit a
new low following the assassination Sept. 20 of Afghanistan’s
chief peace envoy, Burhanuddin Rabbani, and an hours-long
assault on the U.S. embassy in Kabul Sept. 13. Most of the
increased attacks in the Afghan capital have been carried out by
the Haqqani network.  Rabbani’s death at the hands of a suicide bomber, who posed
for months as a Taliban peace envoy, prompted Karzai to say
efforts to talk with the Taliban were pointless. He said
 Pakistan ’s government, which hosts the guerrillas on its
territory and thus can influence them, is in a better position
to assure war or peace in Afghanistan.  New Life   Clinton is seeking to breathe new life into the stalled
diplomatic process ahead of conferences in Istanbul Nov. 2 and
in Bonn Dec. 4 and 5 that will bring together nations offering
aid and committed to finding political solutions for
Afghanistan.  The Istanbul meeting will include Afghanistan’s neighbors
and others from the region to discuss economic cooperation as
well as training and equipping Afghan security forces.  The Bonn conference will convene envoys from 90 countries
and international organizations to assess development and aid
efforts 10 years following the ouster of the Taliban. The
nations also will plan for the transition from NATO command to
Afghan-led security by the end of 2014.  Obama in June announced that the first 10,000 U.S. troops
will leave Afghanistan by the end of this year, while the rest
of about 33,000 additional forces he added in a troop surge
announced in December 2009 would be out of Afghanistan by
September 2012. U.S. and NATO troops plan to end major combat
operations in Afghanistan by the end of 2014.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Islamabad at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
James Rupert in  New Delhi  at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  