-- 
Secret Cash Baiting Officials Leaves No Trace in U.S. Attack Ads

-- B y   C h a r l e s   R .   B a b c o c k
-- 
2011-10-21T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/secret-cash-baiting-officials-leaves-no-trace-in-u-s-attack-ads.html
Ben Nelson doesn’t face re-election
to the  U.S. Senate  for another year and won’t know his opponent
until next May. Yet advertising attacks on the second-term
Democrat began months ago.  “Can Nebraskans trust Ben Nelson?” began a  radio spot  in
January sponsored by American Future Fund, a tax-exempt group
that backed Republicans in the 2010 election. Two other
independent organizations aired commercials in July criticizing
him over federal spending. A third sponsored rallies in August
accusing him of hiding from constituents.  The last election was barely over when airwaves began
humming with messages blasting lawmakers for the next one. Many
of the ads don’t count as political spending under federal rules
because they’re appearing so long before November 2012, and they
don’t urge an explicit vote. This helps independent associations
such as American Future Fund keep their tax-exempt status as
groups whose primary activity can’t be political campaigning.  The early barrage means incumbents in Congress and
President  Barack Obama  are stuck in “permanent warfare,” said
 Thomas Mann , a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, a
 Washington  research group, in an interview. The amounts of money
surged since court rulings wiped out limits on corporate
contributions and as government requirements for disclosing
donors eroded.  “We have seen the virtual collapse of the regulatory
system governing campaign finance in this country,” said Mann,
who co-edited the 2000 book, “The Permanent Campaign and Its
Future.” Today’s environment of unlimited, undisclosed and
uncounted funding amounts to a new reality that “flows against
everything we’ve been trying to do to not allow large
concentrations of money to dominate our politics,” he said.  Campaigns ‘Don’t End’  In Nebraska, the state  Democratic Party  came to Nelson’s
defense, airing spots starting in July in which the senator
discussed economic and health-care issues. The state Republican
Party filed a complaint with the  Federal Election Commission ,
alleging that a transfer of funds from a national Democratic
committee to help pay for the ads violated a limit on the amount
a party can spend in coordination with its candidate. Nelson
argued otherwise.  The attack ads started earlier this time than in his two
previous runs for the Senate, said Nelson, 70, a former two-term
governor, in an interview. Campaigns “don’t end anymore,” he
said. Whether the ads count as election-related under federal
campaign-accounting rules or not, he views them as political
messages from special-interest groups using money from anonymous
donors, he said.  “It’s the new system, and you have to accept that that’s
what it is,” Nelson said.  Spending Climbs  The outside groups operate independently of individual
candidates’ campaigns and of the Democratic and Republican
parties. At the same time, they are often set up and run by
people with close ties to the political organizations.  Spending reported to the FEC by independent committees rose
four-fold to $305 million during the 2009-2010 election cycle
from the 2005-2006 period, about half of it from secret donors.
That was almost a 10th of the total of $3.7 billion spent on the
election, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, a
Washington nonprofit that tracks data reported to the campaign
monitoring agency.  That amount may understate the organizations’ impact on the
last election by 50 percent or more. Media purchases by
independent groups exceeded $450 million, estimated Kenneth
Goldstein, president of Arlington, Virginia-based Campaign Media
Analysis Group, a unit the advertising company  WPP Plc. (WPP)  The
total may have been as high as $560 million, according to the
Campaign Finance Institute, a Washington nonprofit.  Disclosure Gaps  The figures differ because a significant portion of these
groups’ ad purchases didn’t count as political under the rules
of the FEC. The agency requires that independent committees
report as campaign spending those ads that explicitly urge a
vote for or against a particular candidate. They also have to
disclose buying commercials that identify a candidate and run
within 60 days of a general election or within 30 days of a
primary. This means many ads about policy issues that are
critical of candidates don’t have to be reported.  The flood of secret cash buying politically oriented
advertising will only increase and will lead to scandal, said
the Committee for Economic Development, a group of business
leaders and university professors, in a report last month.
Spending normally jumps in a presidential election year.  ‘Most Expensive Campaign’  “This will be the most expensive campaign in American
history,” said Dan Schnur, director of the Jesse M. Unruh
Institute of Politics at the University of  Southern California 
in  Los Angeles . The independent groups “are going to be funded
at greater levels than the candidates’ own campaign committees.
That means the candidates’ voices, particularly in campaigns for
Congress, are going to be drowned out.”  The fundraising goals of two of the biggest committees
backing Republicans have surged. Crossroads GPS and its sister
group, American Crossroads, doubled their initial target to $240
million, after raising $71 million last year. The organizations
were founded by  Karl Rove , the White House political adviser to
President  George W. Bush , and  Ed Gillespie , a former chairman of
the  Republican National Committee .  While it’s too soon to project the impact on voting in
2012, research shows negative commercials have staying power,
said John Petrocik, a political science professor at the
University of Missouri in Columbia. Attack ads now, he said, are
“creating a backdrop, a drumbeat that is simply going to get
louder.”  ‘Long-Range Artillery’  “That’s your long-range artillery, the preparatory barrage
that’s raising the salience of something you are going to come
back to,” Petrocik said. “People are going to remember it
because it’s been around so long.”  The independent groups say the broadcast messages are part
of their mission to inform voters about public issues or hold
elected officials accountable. For example, Crossroads GPS,
organized as a tax-free “social welfare” group under the U.S.
tax code, said its mission is educating Americans on “critical
economic and legislative issues,” according to its website.  Many of the ads this year have been by nonprofits that back
Republicans, including the  Crossroads  groups, the Iowa-based
American Future Fund and 60 Plus Association, an advocate for
the elderly that favors privatizing Social Security, ending
traditional Medicare and repealing the estate tax.  Some tax-exempt groups that favor Democrats have broadcast
ads attacking Republican House members this year. Washington-
based Americans United for Change aired a television spot in
April criticizing Republican Representative Chip Cravaack of
 Minnesota  for voting “to end Medicare.”  ‘Way Ahead’  In July during the debt ceiling debate, Moveon.org Civic
Action ran radio ads in three Republican districts. With a siren
in the background, the spot depicted the members “holed up”
inside, “holding the economy hostage.”  “By expenditures, we can see conservative groups are
ahead,” said  Sheila Krumholz , executive director of the Center
for Responsive Politics. “By news reports, we hear that
conservative groups are in fact way ahead.  “But in the end we don’t really know,” Krumholz said.
“We just know that there’s spending happening now, aimed at
elections, and a lot of it will never be reported.”  Crossroads GPS, American Future Fund, Americans United and
Moveon.org Civic Action are all set up as tax-exempt “social
welfare organizations” under Section 501(c)(4) of the Internal
Revenue Code. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce, which also supports
conservative candidates, is a tax-free nonprofit trade
association under Section 501(c)(6). Groups in both categories
can raise unlimited amounts from companies, unions and
individuals without identifying donors.  Super PACs  American Crossroads is covered by a different provision of
the tax code, Section 527, applying to tax-exempt political
organizations. It is now known as a super PAC, for political
action committee, and can accept unlimited donations from any
source. Super PACs have to disclose the names of donors to the
FEC. Supporters of Obama and several Republican presidential
candidates also started super PACs.  While Crossroads GPS founder Rove declined to be
interviewed for this story, he appeared on Fox television in
June to discuss the start of a $20 million ad campaign on
Obama’s economic record. The messages blamed the president for
increases in unemployment, national debt and gasoline prices.  Interviewer Juan Williams asked Rove whether the group’s
supporters could ‘live with” a Republican nominee like
Representative Michelle Bachmann of Minnesota.  ‘Primary Activity’ Rule  “Look, we’re focused on doing what we can to hold the
Republican House, to create a Republican Senate and to replace
President Obama,” Rove said. Primary voters will pick the
nominee, he said. “It’s our job to lay the foundation for a
Republican victory in the fall of 2012.”  Jonathan Collegio, a spokesman for Crossroads GPS, said
Rove’s comment doesn’t conflict with the group’s tax-exempt
status. Rove “informally advises” American Crossroads and
Crossroads GPS and was responding to a political question,
Collegio said.  Nonprofits under Sections 501(c)(4) and 501(c)(6) can’t
have political campaigning as their “primary activity,”
according to the tax code.  To keep its tax-exempt status and avoid penalties,
Crossroads GPS needs to spend more than half its resources on
“issue and policy advocacy” that isn’t “political intervention”
under IRS rules, according to an Oct. 10, 2010, legal memo
prepared for the organization by Tom Josefiak, a former FEC
chairman. Crossroads GPS intends to allocate “much more” than
that to “a sustained advocacy effort in furtherance of its
‘social welfare’ purpose,” according to the memo, which
Crossroads GPS provided to Bloomberg.  IRS Enforcement  The IRS declines to say what it does to enforce the rule.
In September, the campaign watchdog groups Democracy 21 and
Campaign Legal Center asked the IRS to investigate the tax-
exempt status of four groups that can accept unlimited donations
without naming the givers. They include Crossroads GPS and
Priorities USA, run by former Obama aides to back his re-
election.  “These groups have little if anything to do with promoting
social welfare and everything to do with electing and defeating
candidates,” said Fred Wertheimer, president of Democracy 21.
Spokesmen for the groups dismissed the complaint as frivolous.  Nebraska’s Nelson was one of five Democratic senators whom
Crossroads GPS targeted with TV ads in July. The messages
criticized the lawmakers for “reckless spending.”  ‘Spenditol’ Spots  The state’s airwaves also  carried ads  in July on the same
issue, sponsored by the Concerned Women for America Legislative
Action Committee. A social welfare group under the tax code, the
committee opposes abortion and same-sex marriage and didn’t
report any campaign spending in 2010. The TV spots pitched
“Spenditol” in a parody of drug advertising.  “Call Senator  Ben Nelson ,” the announcer said at the end.
“Tell him to stop spending it all.”  The goal was to influence the budget debate, said Penny
Nance, the president of the group, based in Washington. She said
she could see why Nelson might view the $250,000 ad buy as
political. The senator is vulnerable, she said, and his vote
Oct. 12 against Obama’s jobs bill may have been a sign “he paid
attention.”  The rallies targeting Nelson in August took place in
Lincoln, Omaha and North Platte under the sponsorship of the
state chapter of Americans for Prosperity, another social
welfare group under the tax code. Americans for Prosperity,
whose sister foundation’s chairman is billionaire David Koch,
reported spending $1.2 million to support Republican
congressional candidates last year.  ‘Where’s Ben Nelson?’  “Where’s Ben Nelson?” was the rallies’ theme. The senator
was making appearances throughout the state, often before
members of civic groups, according to his office. Americans for
Prosperity wanted a chance to confront Nelson in a public forum,
said spokesman Mike Friend.  In Missouri and Massachusetts, the League of Women Voters
aired messages in April criticizing votes on clean-air
legislation by Democratic Senator Claire McCaskill and
Republican Senator  Scott Brown . The League, another social
welfare group under the tax code, describes itself as
nonpartisan and has been active since 1920.  “Shouldn’t Claire McCaskill protect the people and not the
polluters?” asked the narrator in an April  television spot . A
little girl wearing an oxygen mask scribbled black all over a
drawing.  Rebuke on Environment  It was a rebuke for a vote by the 58-year-old first-term
senator to bar the Environmental Protection Agency from
regulating carbon dioxide or methane for two years. Brown, 42,
voted for a different amendment to block the EPA on  climate
change . Both senators declined to be interviewed, and both face
re-election next year.  The Massachusetts  Republican party  filed a complaint with
the FEC saying the ad should have been reported as political
because it was an “attempt to distort” Brown’s record “to
encourage voters to defeat his re-election.”  The messages were “accountability” ads, not political,
said Elisabeth MacNamara, president of the League, in an
interview. “We are interested in protecting the Clean Air Act,
and that is our only goal,” she said.  In North Dakota, former Democratic Representative  Earl Pomeroy  attributes his defeat in 2010 to advertising attacks a
year before the election. In November 2009, the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce and 60 Plus Association, which reported spending $7.1
million last year backing Republicans,  aired commercials 
criticizing his vote for the national health-care overhaul.  Attack-Ad ‘Blizzard’  “Running into a saturation blizzard of attack ads one year
before the election was something I had not encountered
before,” Pomeroy, who served nine terms, said in an interview.
“It played a material role in damaging my poll numbers, which
aided in the recruitment of a top-tier challenger.”  The Chamber of Commerce TV spot accused Pomeroy of voting
“yes” to new taxes, spending and regulations that could cost
the state jobs. It urged viewers to call the congressman and
tell him “he should have said no to Washington and yes to North
Dakota.”  The Chamber aired similar ads targeting other vulnerable
Democrats in 2009. The campaign helped turn constituents against
them,  Bruce Josten , the Chamber’s top lobbyist, said in an
interview shortly after the 2010 vote. “They stayed with us”
on the health-care bill, he said, referring to voters. “And
that carried through to the midterm elections.”  The 60 Plus ad showed citizens telling Pomeroy, “you have
betrayed us” and added that “North Dakota seniors won’t
forget.”  North Dakota Vote  The Chamber and 60 Plus each paid more than $350,000 for
ads in North Dakota in the month after the House vote, according
to Wayne Kranzler, Pomeroy’s media buyer in Bismarck. Neither
group reported the spending to the government election agency,
and neither would comment.  Last November, Republican Rick Berg beat Pomeroy by 55
percent to 45 percent. Though he spent more than Berg, Pomeroy
couldn’t counter the flood of early negative ads, he said.  “By the time the campaign started,” Pomeroy said, “I was
thoroughly damaged goods.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles R. Babcock in Washington at 
 cbabcock1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at   gputka@bloomberg.net  