-- 
Senate Democrats Propose $60 Billion in Spending for Roads, Bridges, Rails

-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n   a n d   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 
2011-10-21T19:47:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/senate-democrats-propose-60-billion-in-infrastructure-spending.html
Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid 
said he will advance the next piece of President Barack Obama’s
rejected $447 billion jobs proposal, this time a $60 billion
measure funding roads, bridges and other infrastructure.  Reid said he will seek a vote on the package, which would
be financed by a 0.7 percent surtax on millionaires, during the
week of Oct. 31. Yesterday, Democrats failed in their first
attempt to salvage parts of the overall jobs proposal.  During a conference call held today with Transportation
Secretary Ray LaHood, Reid said Republicans will pay a political
price for continuing to vote against such measures.  “They need to get in touch with their constituents, and
we’re going to keep moving forward on this,” said Reid, a
Nevada Democrat.  A spokesman for Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  said
the Kentucky Republican questions the effectiveness and fiscal
impact of further construction spending on job growth.  “Two years after spending tens of billions of dollars on
‘shovel ready’ projects in his first stimulus bill, President
Obama famously admitted that those projects weren’t as shovel-
ready as he thought they were,” said John Ashbrook, a McConnell
spokesman. “It would be the height of irresponsibility at a
time of trillion-dollar deficits to make the same mistake
twice.”  Infrastructure Bank  The new proposal includes $10 billion to create a national
“infrastructure bank” to leverage private and public capital
for various projects. Senator  Amy Klobuchar , a Minnesota
Democrat, said the other $50 billion would fund infrastructure
projects including $4 billion for rail, $9 billion for transit
programs, and $27 billion for road, bridge, freight rail and
port projects.  In yesterday’s vote, the Senate blocked, on a 50-50 tally,
a proposal to spend $35 billion to help prevent layoffs of
public-sector employees. The measure needed 60 votes to advance
to the Senate floor.  The Senate also blocked, 57-43, a Republican proposal to
repeal a requirement that the government begin withholding 3
percent of payments to federal contractors starting in 2013.  Public Support  Democrats continue to push the jobs measures after public
opinion surveys show support for a millionaires’ surtax to help
pay for government efforts to boost  job creation . An Oct. 13-17
AP-GfK poll found that 62 percent of 1,000 U.S. adults surveyed
supported such a tax, while 26 percent opposed it.  Still, the same poll found that just 36 percent thought
higher spending for roads, schools and other infrastructure
could increase jobs “a great deal” or “quite a bit.” The
poll had a margin of error of plus or minus 4 percentage points.  Democrats began trying to pass Obama’s jobs package in
pieces after the Senate blocked consideration of the full plan
last week. That plan would expand a payroll tax break due to
expire at the end of this year, increase spending on public
works projects and extend jobless benefits.  All Senate Republicans opposed the larger package as well
as the piecemeal approach. Republicans have objected to tax
increases to offset the new spending, and they also question the
value of more  government spending  to boost the economy. They say
the $825 billion in economic stimulus approved in 2009 was
ineffective.  LaHood said today that $48 billion in transportation
spending in the 2009 stimulus measure supported 55,000 new jobs.
A further boost in transportation will help yield more jobs,
with the effect extending into 2012, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  