-- 
Shell to Boost Nigeria Natural-Gas Output Within a Year, Reduce Flaring

-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 
2011-10-21T15:53:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/shell-plans-to-boost-nigeria-gas-production-next-year.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , operator of
Nigeria’s largest oil fields, plans to boost its natural-gas
production in the country as it starts a new facility and cuts
flaring, or the burning of the fuel at fields.  The Hague-based company plans to increase daily output to
one billion cubic feet within a year from about 700 million,
Osten Olorunsola, Shell’s vice president for gas in sub-Saharan
 Africa , said yesterday in an interview in Abuja, the capital.  Nigeria, holder of Africa’s largest gas reserves of more
than 187 trillion cubic feet, flares most of the fuel it
produces along with oil because it lacks the infrastructure to
process it. Shell plans to collect gas at its Utorogu and
Ughelli fields and start the Agbada non-associated gas
facilities from the first quarter of 2012, Olorunsola said.  “We mop up the gas which otherwise would have been flared
and we also make the gas available for power,” he said. “We’re
basically using one stone to kill two birds.”  About  70 percent  of  Nigeria ’s domestic gas demand is
provided by Shell, most of which is used to generate electricity
in Africa’s most populous nation. Chevron Corp., Exxon Mobil
Corp., Total SA and Eni SpA are the other major suppliers of
domestic gas.  Shell cut gas flaring 50 percent in the African country to
about 300 million feet a day in the eight years to 2010 after
installing gathering infrastructure, according to the company’s
website. The gas gathering project will cost about  $6 billion 
when completed, it said.  Shell has about 14 ongoing gas projects including the
integration of the Forcados oil and gas development that will
come on stream between the first quarter of next year and 2015,
Olorunsola said.  Nigeria  is Africa’s biggest oil producer and the fifth-
biggest source of U.S. crude imports. Shell operates a joint
venture in the nation where it holds a 30 percent stake and
state-owned Nigerian National Petroleum Corp. owns 55 percent.
Total has a 10 percent stake and Eni has 5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  