-- 
Shell Wins U.S. Air Permit for Oil Exploration Off Alaska

-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 
2011-10-21T21:46:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/shell-wins-u-s-air-permit-for-oil-exploration-off-alaska-1-.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  won a final
U.S. air-pollution permit to operate an oil-exploration rig in
 Alaska ’s Beaufort Sea beginning in 2012.  Shell is authorized to use its Kulluk rig and supporting
icebreakers and  oil-spill  response vessels for 120 days each
year in the Arctic waters, the Environmental Protection Agency
said today in an e-mailed statement.  “This air permit is one of several federal authorizations
Shell needs to explore for oil and gas” off Alaska “starting
in July 2012,” the agency said. “EPA’s final permit
significantly reduces the potential air pollution from Shell’s
drilling operations.”  Shell, which has invested about $4 billion in the Arctic
leases since 2005, hasn’t drilled any wells in the region while
opponents won delays with appeals and lawsuits. Environmental
organizations and Alaskan native groups said it would take too
long for equipment to reach the remote and icy region during an
oil spill.  The company, based in The Hague, received approval from the
EPA in September for the Discoverer ship to drill and station
icebreakers and spill-response vessels in the Beaufort waters
and the neighboring Chukchi Sea. Discoverer is owned by  Noble
Corp. (NE) , based in Baar,  Switzerland .  Two Rigs  Pete Slaiby, vice president of Shell Alaska, said in a May
2 interview that having two rigs in the Arctic would enable
faster drilling of relief wells.  “We will continue to advance our drilling plans and
evaluate investment decisions that would allow us to commence
with a 2012 drilling season,” Curtis Smith, a Shell spokesman,
said today in an e-mailed statement.  Shell,  Europe ’s largest oil company, still needs  Interior
Department  approval of its Chukchi Sea exploration plan and a
permit from U.S. offshore-oil regulators for each of 10 planned
wells. The company won the Interior Department’s approval for an
exploration plan for the  Beaufort Sea , near the North Slope
towns of Deadhorse and Kaktovik, in August.  The Beaufort and Chukchi seas hold about 25 billion barrels
of oil, Shell says, citing government estimates. A study
commissioned by the company said developing these resources
would lead to 54,700 new jobs across the U.S.  -- Editors: Judy Pasternak, Bob Brennan  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  