-- 
Siemens Plans to Boost Stake in U.K. Sea-Energy Developer

-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 
2011-10-21T14:18:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/siemens-plans-to-boost-stake-in-u-k-sea-energy-developer.html
Marine Current Turbines Ltd., a U.K.
maker of tidal energy technology, said  Siemens AG (SIE)  plans to
“substantially” increase its stake in the company which is
seeking to raise as much as 100 million pounds ($157 million)
for two projects.  The turbine maker is looking to raise about 50 million
pounds for each project, Andrew Tyler, chief executive officer
of the Bristol, England-based company, said yesterday by phone.
It’s also in the middle of a financing round with existing
shareholders for working capital, he said.  “We’re looking for several millions, and it could be as
high as 10 million pounds,” Tyler said. “Our main shareholder,
Siemens, is planning to increase its stake in the company
substantially and we will be announcing this within the next few
weeks.”  Siemens,  Europe ’s largest engineering company, owns about
10 percent of MCT, as the turbine maker is known. Torsten Wolf,
a Siemens spokesman, confirmed the company is in the process of
increasing its stake, and declined to say by how much.  Wave and tidal energy has the potential to meet as much as
20 percent of the U.K.’s current electricity demand, according
to the  government . The country is aiming for 15 percent of its
energy to come from renewable sources by 2020.  Next Year  MCT is planning two projects of 10 megawatts each, one in
Kyle Rhea,  Scotland , and the other in the Anglesey Skerries in
Wales. It wants to raise funding for these projects by the end
of next year, Tyler said. If successful, it’s aiming to install
the first project in 2014, and the second in 2015, he said.  “In terms of the investors,  utility companies  are very
high up on our list, but also specialist funds, and alternative
investors who have an interest in renewable energy, such as some
of the  oil companies  who we are approaching as well,” Tyler
said. MCT also expects some public support, he said.  The money would most likely be in the form of equity, said
Tyler. “We would be very lucky to get debt financing for early
projects like these, although gearing the project once in
operation is definitely possible.”  The U.K. government yesterday boosted support for marine
energy by proposing to raise the number of so-called Renewable
Obligation Certificates from two to five for projects of as much
as 30 megawatts. This means wave and tidal energy generators may
be eligible from 2013 to receive about 229 pounds a megawatt-
hour of electricity at current prices, up from the 92 pounds
they would have received previously.  The proposal is “better than we might have hoped for,”
the CEO said, and means MCT can now begin to look for the money
it needs to begin its two projects.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 Ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg in London at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  