-- 
Solyndra Stiffed Lobbyist, Trying to Sway Lawmakers to the End

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-10-21T04:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/solyndra-stiffed-lobbyist-trying-to-sway-lawmakers-to-the-end.html
Solyndra LLC, the solar-panel maker
that collapsed after getting a U.S. loan guarantee, hired a
 Washington  lobbying firm weeks before its bankruptcy in what may
have been a last-ditch effort to sway U.S. lawmakers
investigating the company.  The Glover Park Group LLC did $20,000 of work for Solyndra
after registering as its lobbyist in July, according to
documents filed yesterday. Solyndra never paid the firm,
according to Joel Johnson, a Glover Park managing director.  Solyndra, which received a $535 million loan guarantee from
the Energy Department in 2009, filed for  bankruptcy protection 
on Sept. 6.  “They were struggling to stay alive,” said  Craig Holman ,
who tracks lobbying for  Public Citizen,  a non-profit advocacy
group based in Washington. “This is where lobbyists come into
play.”  Glover Park was the sixth lobbyist hired by Fremont,
California-based Solyndra to lobby on its behalf since 2009. The
company spent at least $1.3 million on issues relating to its
loan guarantee and policies promoting solar power, including
$480,000 in the first half of this year, according to the
disclosure records.  Glover Park’s Catharine Cyr Ransom and Gregg Rothschild
helped to introduce Solyndra executives to members of the House
Energy and Commerce Committee, which had been investigating the
company since February, according to the filing with the Senate.  Rothschild is a former Democratic counsel for the House
energy panel. Ransom is a former climate and environment aide to
Senate Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus , a Montana
Democrat.  Optimistic Remarks  Johnson, the managing director, said Glover isn’t seeking
compensation from Solyndra. Public-disclosure rules require the
firm to report its expenses, represented by the $20,000, he said
in an interview.  Records show Solyndra terminated the contract with Glover
Park on Aug. 19, 12 days before the company shut its doors.  Republicans and Democrats on the energy committee have
criticized Solyndra Chief Executive Officer Brian Harrison for
presenting an optimistic picture of the company’s financial
health in meetings with them in July.  Glover Park helped Harrison convey a similar message to the
public, hosting a press conference for him at its Washington
offices on July 21. “We’re growing, doubling in size year-over-
year, and on track,” Harrison told reporters.  Harrison invoked his Fifth Amendment rights under the
Constitution not to make self-incriminating statements and
refused to answer questions about the loan guarantee at a Sept.
23 House hearing. He resigned as CEO this month.  FBI Investigating  Solyndra is the subject of an FBI investigation into
whether it misrepresented its finances to the Energy Department
as part of its loan application. The company has denied any
wrongdoing.  In its final month, Solyndra also sought to restructure
loan terms with the Energy Department. The department, which had
approved new terms in February that put taxpayer debt behind $75
million in private investment in the case of liquidation, denied
the second restructuring request the day before Solyndra closed
its doors on Aug. 31.  Glover Park had done public relations work for Solyndra
before registering as its lobbyist. A Glover Park representative
sent an e-mail on Aug. 3, 2010, to a White House official in
response to a negative press report about Solyndra, according to
documents released by President Barack Obama’s administration.  “Solyndra is on solid ground and well beyond the startup
phase,” Ryan Cunningham, senior vice president at Glover Park,
said in the e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  