-- 
South Korea’s Stocks Advance Most Among Asian Markets on Earnings Outlook

-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 
2011-10-21T07:26:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/south-korea-stocks-gain-most-in-major-asia-markets-on-earnings.html
South Korean stocks gained, with the
benchmark index rising the most in  Asia , on speculation the
nation’s earnings will withstand a global economic slowdown.  The  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  added 1.8 percent to 1,838.38 at the close
on the Korea Exchange, rebounding from a 2.7 percent drop
yesterday. The gauge rose 0.2 percent this week, its second
straight weekly advance.  Samsung Electronics Co., the world’s second-biggest handset
maker, rose to the highest level since May on a Wall Street
Journal report that its smartphone shipments beat Apple Inc.’s
in the last quarter.  Hynix Semiconductor Inc. (000660) , the world’s
second-largest maker of computer memory chips, jumped 10 percent
after research company IHS iSuppli said Apple used the company’s
NAND-flash chips in the iPhone for the first time. Daewoo
Engineering & Construction Co. led builders higher on
speculation they will benefit from a potential increase in
reconstruction work in Libya.  “Bets that the worst for the technology industry may have
passed are driving Korean stocks up today,” said Han Sang Soo,
a  fund manager  at Samsung Asset Management Co. in Seoul, which
oversees about $28 billion.  Standard & Poor’s  said in a report today  France  is among
euro-region sovereigns likely to be downgraded in a stressed
economic scenario. The sovereign ratings of  Spain ,  Italy ,
Ireland and Portugal would also be reduced by another one or two
levels in either of New York-based S&P’s two stress scenarios,
the ratings firm said.  Samsung Shipments  The Kospi sank 16 percent in the third quarter, the most
since the last three months of 2008, as signs of slowing U.S.
economic growth and a worsening European debt crisis fueled
speculation that demand for  South Korea ’s exports will fall.
Stocks in the gauge trade at 9.5 times estimated profit,
compared with 9.7 times for the MSCI Emerging Markets Index.  Samsung Electronics gained 1.1 percent to 917,000 won, the
highest level since May 3. The company’s smartphone shipments
are said to have topped Apple’s in the last quarter, the Wall
Street Journal reported, citing a person familiar with the
situation.  Samsung SDI Co., which supplies rechargeable batteries to
Samsung Electronics, added 6.3 percent to 136,000 won.  Libyan Reconstruction  Daewoo Engineering climbed 7.8 percent to 9,860 won, while
Hyundai Engineering & Construction Co. rallied 6.6 percent to
68,300 won. The 36-member Korea Construction Index was the best
performer among the Kospi’s 19 industry groups.  “Investors appear to be betting that reconstruction
projects will increase in  Libya  following Muammar Qaddafi’s
death,” Alex Cho, an analyst with Daishin Securities Co., said
by phone today.  LG Display, the world’s second-largest liquid-crystal
display maker, advanced 7.8 percent to 24,250 won. The company’s
net loss in the three months ended in September was 687.5
billion won ($600 million), according to a regulatory filing
yesterday.  “Quarterly earnings should improve starting from the
current quarter,” Jeff Kim, an analyst with Hyundai Securities
Co., said in a report today.  STX Pan Ocean Co., South Korea’s largest bulk-shipping
line, fell as much as the daily limit of 15 percent, while
affiliates tumbled on speculation group companies may sell stock
to help pay debt.  “There were rumors about the group planning to sell shares
and bonds because they may be short of funds,” said Um Kyung A,
an analyst at Shinyoung Securities Co. in  Seoul .  STX Group has no financial troubles and business is
“normal,” the company said in an e-mailed reply to Bloomberg
News queries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  