-- 
South Sudan Says Black Market Currency Trading Fuels Inflation

-- B y   J a r e d   F e r r i e
-- 
2011-10-21T09:00:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/south-sudan-says-black-market-currency-trading-fuels-inflation.html
Central Bank workers in South  Sudan 
may be involved in black market currency trading that is fueling
inflation in the newly independent nation, the deputy finance
minister said.  The employees are able to buy dollars at the official rate
of between 2.9 to 3.3 pounds to the dollar and sell them on the
black market, where the U.S. currency fetches as much as 4
pounds, Marial Awou Yol said yesterday in an interview in Juba,
the capital. Ministry of National Security agents are probing
all businesses that can trade in foreign currency, including
banks, insurance companies and exchange bureaus, he said.  “We have ordered them to be positioned, or embedded, into
mainly the central bank, because it looks like there is
connivance between some staff of the central bank and these
mobile bureau exchange owners” operating on the street, he
said.  Consumer prices jumped 61.5 percent in September from last
year as the cost of food surged, the  National Bureau of
Statistics  said on Oct. 18. South Sudan gained control of about
75 percent of Sudan’s oil production, the third biggest in sub-
Saharan  Africa , when it seceded on July 9.  Police in Juba said last week they detained more than 20
people who were exchanging money illegally on the streets.  Yol said the government hoped that further investigations
would lead authorities to the “invisible guys” who are
profiting from illegal  currency speculation .  Food Prices Soar  The price of food, the largest contributor to the inflation
index with a 71.4 percent weighting, advanced an annual 65.3
percent in September, the Juba-based statistics bureau said in a
statement on its website.  The central bank this month said it was doubling to $200
million the weekly amount of foreign currency allocated to
financial institutions.  Yol said such measures would only be effective if security
agencies are able to prevent illegal speculators from profiting
on the black market.  “If no safety nets are out in place, it will be like
pouring water into a bottomless hole, so we have to safeguard
against more leakages in the  currency market ,” he said.  Yol said the surge in food prices coincided with the
frequent closure of borders to trade between South Sudan and
Sudan after fighting erupted this year between government forces
and rebels in Sudan’s border states of Southern Kordofan and
Blue Nile.  He also blamed illegal checkpoints demanding payments from
trucks carrying imports from  Uganda , South Sudan’s southern
neighbor, for the price rises. The authorities have shut down
roadblocks operated by members of 44 government institutions and
65 other groups, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jared Ferrie in Juba, South Sudan, at 
 jferrie1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  