-- 
Spacey Rides on Wall Street Roller Coaster; Deported Kids: Film

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-10-22T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/spacey-rides-on-wall-street-roller-coaster-deported-kids-film.html
Eric Dale, the financial analyst
played by Stanley Tucci in “ Margin Call ,” is a numbers
cruncher who could make Rain Man envious.  Sitting on the steps of his Brooklyn brownstone, the former
engineer recites a long list of complex figures and calculations
from a bridge project he designed. It’s a mind-boggling display
of math and memory.  Equally impressive is filmmaker J.C. Chandor’s feat of
turning a story about the financial crisis into a roller-coaster
thriller.  Chandor’s first feature chronicles a 24-hour, high-wire act
at a Wall Street investment firm on the brink of ruin. It’s
sharply written, crisply directed and wonderfully acted by a
cast that includes  Kevin Spacey , Jeremy Irons,  Paul Bettany ,
Simon Baker,  Demi Moore , Zachary Quinto and Penn Badgley.  Though the subject is finance, “Margin Call” is more
about people than money -- specifically, how members of the firm
deal with a potential calamity that requires swift practical and
ethical decisions.  Chandor, whose father worked at Merrill Lynch for almost 40
years, resists the easy path of turning his characters into
saints and sinners.  Dying Dog  Spacey’s aggressive sales director hardly blinks when more
than half his staff is axed, but tears up over his dying dog.  Irons’s chief executive orders a ruthless plan to save the
company, while admitting that he can’t comprehend a spreadsheet.  Quinto’s inexperienced analyst blows the whistle on the
firm’s financial woes, yet watches passively as the take-no-
prisoners rescue plan unfolds. Bettany, who plays Spacey’s
second-in-command, is troubled by Irons’s actions but does
nothing to defy him.  Most of the movie takes place in the firm’s high-rise
Manhattan headquarters, which underscores the insular mood. Dark
lighting and a percussive soundtrack contribute to the noirish
feel, along with punchy dialogue such as Irons’s summation of
how to succeed: “Be first, be smarter or cheat.”  “Margin Call,” from Roadside Attractions, is playing
across the U.S. Rating: ****  ‘Oranges and Sunshine’  In the two decades following World War II, an estimated
10,000 poor British children were deported to  Australia , where
they were forced to live in overcrowded institutions rife with
physical and sexual abuse.  The kids were told they were going to a better place, but
the real motive was to dump undesirables in an underpopulated
colony. Though some were orphans, many had been living in state-
run or church facilities and were sent away without their
parents’ knowledge.  The operation was kept secret until an English social
worker, Margaret Humphreys, uncovered the scandal and publicized
it in the late 1980s. Her story is told in “ Oranges and
Sunshine ,” a moving drama whose title comes from the rosy
picture officials painted of the children’s new home.  Emily Watson captures the obsessive dedication of
Humphreys, who leaves her family in Nottingham for long
stretches so she can interview the victims in Australia,
including two men (Hugo Weaving, David Wenham) desperate to find
their mothers. She also establishes the Child Migrants Trust to
provide social services for the victims.  The Australian and British governments apologized to the
children in recent years, a move that was obviously too little
and too late.  “Oranges and Sunshine,” from Cohen Media Group, is
playing in  New York  and  Los Angeles . Rating: ***  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in New York at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 