-- 
St Paul’s Cathedral to Close After Building of Protest Camp

-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 
2011-10-21T16:19:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/st-paul-s-cathedral-to-close-after-building-of-protest-camp-1-.html
St Paul’s Cathedral  in  London ,
Christopher Wren’s 17th century masterpiece, is to close after
global equality campaigners established a camp site in its
grounds.  The decision applies until further notice and was made
“with very heavy heart,” said the cathedral’s Dean Graeme
Knowles. He asked the protesters to leave.  The decision “is unprecedented in modern times,” Knowles
told a press conference at the building today. The building was
last forced to shut its doors during the Second World War when
London was being bombed. “With so many stoves and fires and
lots of different types of fuel around, there is a clear fire
hazard. Then there’s the public health aspect which speaks for
itself.”  Inspired by anti-Wall Street protests in  New York  and
elsewhere, demonstrators gathered in London from Oct. 15,
pitching about 200 tents in the area around the cathedral. The
group, calling itself Occupy London Stock Exchange, was blocked
by police from approaching the LSE, which is about 100 yards
from the camp site.  While the Church of England stood “alongside those seeking
equality and financial probity,” the camp was affecting the
cathedral’s daily life, Knowles said.  “In order that we might reopen as speedily as possible, we
ask you to withdraw peacefully,” he wrote in an open letter to
the demonstrators.  ‘Authentic’ Equality  A  statement  from the protesters said that while they were
disappointed by the cathedral’s decision, they would not leave.  The protest and “awareness-raising exercise -– and our
attempts to provide a truly participatory and accountable forum
in which to investigate ways forward -– will continue,” the
campers said.  The cathedral was not motivated by financial concerns,
Knowles said. Even so, it cost 20,000 pounds ($32,000) a day to
run the building and 80 percent of that was covered by revenue
from tourists. The number of visitors has fallen since the camp
was established and had reduced its earnings, he said.  On Monday, the demonstrators said that they opposed bailing
out banks, public expenditure cuts, arms dealing, corporate
profits, global oppression and war, while supporting genuinely
independent regulators and “authentic” global equality.  The camp site blocked access to fire engines for both the
cathedral and the chapter house, where many of the cathedral’s
200 staff and 100 volunteers work, Knowles said in an interview
following the press conference.  ‘Extravagantly Generous’  The decision did not involve either Bishop of London
Richard Chartres or the Archbishop of Canterbury  Rowan Williams ,
leader of the Anglican Church, Knowles said. Williams said in
2009, bankers have failed to repent for their roles in the
global financial collapse in an interview with the British
Broadcasting Corp.  Chartres said in 2009, bankers “have a duty to be
extravagantly generous, because to those to whom much has been
given much will be required.”  Communication with the protesters will continue, Knowles
said. “We’re not pulling up a drawbridge,” he said. “We
issued the letter and we hope there’ll be a response from the
protesters.”  The church has not yet decided what it will do should the
protesters decline to leave, Knowles said. To his knowledge, the
church has no other suitable land in London it could offer, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  