-- 
Stockton, California, Warns of Possible Default on 2006 Redevelopment Debt

-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 
2011-10-21T21:18:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/stockton-california-warns-of-possible-default-on-tax-revenue-shortfall.html
Stockton, California, which declared
a fiscal emergency in May, warned it may default on
redevelopment agency debt issued in 2006, citing a shortfall in
tax-increment revenue.  Debt service will exceed available revenue by about
$858,000 in the North Stockton project area, according to an
Oct. 12 filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded the underlying rating on
series 2006A and 2006B revenue bonds issued by the Stockton
Public Financing Authority on behalf of the Stockton
Redevelopment Agency to B from BB with a negative outlook in an
Oct. 4 report, citing declines in assessed valuation for real
estate in the redevelopment area. The redevelopment agency said
it expects a 3.17 percent drop in values for fiscal 2012.  “The city has experienced persistent negative economic
effects of housing market stress and the recent recession in our
view, but the declines in some economic indicators appear to be
moderating,” the report said.  Stockton spokeswoman Connie Cochran declined to comment on
the debt-service shortfall.  The city, an agricultural center about 80 miles (130
kilometers) east of  San Francisco , will reduce the shortfall
with a $137,249 North Stockton cash surplus held by the trustee
from reserve fund interest earnings and money released from a
reduced reserve requirement after a 2010 bond-repurchase
program, Stockton said in the filing.  Reserve Account  “The agency expects that the trustee may be required to
draw on the North Stockton Reserve Account to make up the
remaining shortfall” depending on the agency’s ability to use
unspent project fund balances to make up the difference,
according to the filing.  U.S. municipal defaults fell in the last quarter to 12,
totaling $126 million, from 18 a year earlier and 24 in the same
period of 2009, according to the Distressed Debt Securities
Newsletter.  S&P included Stockton’s redevelopment agency tax allocation
bonds in a list of 16 ratings put on negative credit watch in an
Oct. 14 report. A negative outlook means more downgrades may
come.  “The CreditWatch is due to the agencies’ reliance on
unpledged resources to meet debt-service payment obligations,
particularly in light of new legislation regarding redevelopment
agencies that we believe could further deteriorate already
weakened credit characteristics,” S&P credit analyst Sussan
Corson said in the report.  The  California  Legislature this year approved a law that
requires redevelopment agencies to turn over about $1.7 billion
next year and about $400 million annually thereafter to schools
and local governments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 