-- 
Sumitomo Life Sticks to Buying Japanese Bonds in Second Half

-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 
2011-10-21T06:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/sumitomo-life-sticks-to-buying-japanese-bonds-in-second-half.html
Sumitomo Life Insurance Co. plans to
invest mainly in yen-denominated bonds in the fiscal second half
after buying about 800 billion yen ($10 billion) worth of
domestic debt in the first half to safeguard returns.  The insurer, which has about 21 trillion yen in assets,
will mainly invest in Japanese  government bonds  with longer
maturities in the six months through March 31, said Yoshiteru
Hata, deputy general manager at the insurer’s investment
planning division. He declined to provide specific figures for
the investment plan, citing company policy.  Sumitomo Life is sticking to the relative safety of bonds
on concerns that the global economy will remain weak amid
 Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis and as  Japan  copes with the
aftermath of the March earthquake. The government may sell about
1 trillion yen of bonds to fund the rebuilding of areas stricken
by the record quake, said two government officials who declined
to be identified because the plan isn’t public.  “Japanese government bonds will remain our main
investments,” Hata said in an interview in Tokyo yesterday.
“We’ve added more than we had expected in the first half on
prospects that the yield will come down. We have no intention to
earn returns by betting on riskier assets such as equities.”  Sumitomo Life doesn’t have any investments in  Portugal ,
Ireland,  Italy ,  Greece  and  Spain , Hata said. The five European
nations had their sovereign ratings cut.  Japan’s sovereign bonds earned 2.4 percent in the fiscal
first half ended Sept. 30, according to Bank of America Corp.’s
Merrill Lynch index. The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average slumped 11
percent.  Redeeming Hedge Fund  Sumitomo Life expects demand for loans to remain weak, as
many higher-rated companies are taking advantage of the
strengthening yen to raise funds overseas, Hata said. Loan
balance decreased by about 100 billion yen in the first half,
according to the insurer.  Holdings of overseas bonds and equities remained unchanged
in the fiscal first half and investment decisions will hinge on
market moves for the second half, Hata said.  Domestic stock holdings declined in the first half as the
insurer redeemed its investment in a fund-of-hedge funds, Hata
said. The insurer remains “cautious” about investing in
domestic stocks in the second half, while real estate holdings
will remain unchanged, he said.  Following are Sumitomo Life’s market forecasts for the
fiscal second half through March 2012. The ranges refer to where
the insurer expects securities to trade during the period.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in  Tokyo  at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
Komaki Ito in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  