-- 
Swiss Stocks Advance Before European Summit; UBS, Straumann Rise

-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 
2011-10-21T16:02:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/swiss-stocks-advance-before-european-summit-ubs-straumann-rise.html
Swiss stocks climbed the most in
more than two weeks as speculation intensified that euro-area
governments will unleash $1.3 trillion in funds in an effort to
stem the region’s sovereign debt crisis.  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , Switzerland’s largest
banks, gained more than 3.8 percent.  Straumann Holding AG (STMN) , the
world’s biggest dental-implant maker, gained 4.6 percent after
Jefferies Group Inc. reiterated its “buy” rating on the stock.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI) , a measure of the biggest and most
actively traded companies, advanced 1.7 percent to 5,753.52 at
the close in Zurich, the most since Oct. 6. Even so, the gauge
has tumbled 11 percent this year. The broader Swiss Performance
Index also increased 1.7 percent today.  “Market participants look ahead with excitement at the EU
summit on Sunday,” Christian Schmidt, a technical analyst for
equities at Helaba Landesbank Hessen-Thueringen in  Frankfurt ,
wrote in a report today. “Hopes are high after the leverage
effect has been discussed in more detail this week. In our view,
a potential for disappointment exists so the risk appetite of
market participants is not likely to increase.”  Euro-area governments may pool their temporary and
permanent rescue funds, providing as much as 940 billion euros
($1.3 trillion) to fight the debt crisis, seeking to break a
deadlock between Germany and  France  that has forced leaders to
hold two summits in four days.  Rescue Funds  Negotiations on combining the European Union’s rescue funds
from mid-2012 and scrapping a ceiling on bailout spending
accelerated this week after efforts to leverage the temporary
fund ran into European Central Bank opposition and provoked the
French-German clash, two people familiar with the discussions
said. They declined to be identified because political leaders
will have to decide.  Finance ministers are  meeting in Brussels  today to lay the
groundwork for an Oct. 23 meeting of government leaders. A
second summit for Oct. 26 was scheduled yesterday after Germany
and France said the EU needs more time to seal a “global and
ambitious” accord.  Stocks extended their gains after  Fitch Ratings  said it has
no plans to change France’s AAA rating and as International
Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said the fund
will do all it can to help the EU solve its debt crisis.  Banks, Insurers Rise  UBS advanced 3.9 percent to 10.99 Swiss francs and Credit
Suisse climbed 3.8 percent to 23.86 francs as a gauge of
European banks was the third-best performer of the 19 industry
groups on the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, jumping 3.8 percent.  Zurich Financial Services AG (ZURN) , the country’s biggest
insurer, rose 2.3 percent to 200.70 francs while Swiss
Reinsurance Co., the world’s second-largest reinsurer, added 3.6
percent to 46.93 francs.  Straumann gained 4.6 percent to 156.10 francs as Stephan Gasteyger, an analyst at Jefferies, said he retains his “buy”
rating on the stock because it has strong balance sheets. He
also said the share price reflects little or no sales growth in
2012.  Nobel Biocare Holding AG (NOBN)  soared 9.4 percent to 9.94 francs,
the most since August 2009 amid speculation it might be a
takeover target. Christophe Ochsner of Mirabaud Securities LLP
in Geneva said the company has been a potential M&A target for
years. He added the company has a “very weak shareholders
structure,” so it “would make sense for an industry rival to
come in, boost efficiency and improve earnings.”  Temenos Group AG (TEMN) , the banking-software maker, dropped 1.4
percent to 14.45 francs after  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  cut the stock to
“hold” from “buy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  