-- 
U.K. Budget Deficit Narrows More Than Forecast as Osborne Cuts Take Effect

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-10-21T09:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/u-k-budget-deficit-narrows-more-than-forecast-as-osborne-cuts-take-effect.html
Britain’s budget deficit narrowed
more than economists forecast in September as Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne ’s spending cuts took effect in earnest.  Net borrowing excluding support for banks fell to 14.1
billion pounds ($22 billion) from 15.4 billion pounds a year
earlier, the  Office for National Statistics  said in London
today. A shortfall of 15 billion pounds was predicted by
economists, based on the median of 17 forecasts in a Bloomberg
News survey. Revenue rose 4.2 percent and spending climbed just
0.5 percent.  The figures still leave Osborne little room to provide a
fiscal stimulus, with  economists predicting  he may overshoot his
122 billion-pound target for the fiscal year through March 2012
by as much as 8 billion pounds as the economy weakens. The
 Office for Budget Responsibility  will publish its revised
forecasts on Nov. 29.  “Obviously these figures are quite a lot better than
people were expecting,” said  Marc Ostwald , a bond strategist at
Monument Securities in London. “There are signs that Osborne is
having some success in reining in  government spending . So the
plan is working, but that may be a double-edged sword because of
the effects on growth.”  The pound was little changed after the report and was
trading at $1.5778 as of 9:45 a.m. London time.  Credibility  Osborne and Prime Minister  David Cameron  have staked their
credibility on wiping out a budget deficit of more than 9
percent of economic output, leaving the  Bank of England  to
stimulate demand by pumping more money into the economy.  Output has barely grown over the past year and unemployment
climbed to a 15-year high of 8.1 percent in the three months
through August. That’s fuelled opposition calls for emergency
tax cuts to prevent the economy sliding back into recession.  The 80 billion-pound  program of spending cuts  will see more
than 300,000 public-sector jobs eliminated by 2015 -- a third of
the cuts have already taken place -- and deep reductions to
welfare benefits. Only  Greece , Ireland,  Portugal  and Iceland
face a tighter fiscal squeeze among advanced economies,
according to the  International Monetary Fund .  In the first six months of the fiscal year, the deficit was
63.5 billion pounds compared with 71 billion pounds a year
earlier. August’s deficit was 2.2 billion pounds lower than
previously estimated, due to revisions to spending and income
tax.  Delivering  Osborne is delivering on his deficit-reduction plan, the
Treasury said. “At the halfway point in the fiscal year, half
of the fall in borrowing forecast for the whole year has been
achieved,” it said in statement released in London.  Osborne is aiming to cut borrowing by 15 billion pounds in
the current fiscal year from 137.1 billion pounds last year.  Revenue in the first half rose 4.9 percent from a year
earlier, behind the 7.2 percent predicted for the full fiscal
year by the OBR, which oversees forecasting for the Treasury.
Spending climbed 2.9 percent, less than the OBR’s 3.6 percent
forecast for the year.  The deficit in September including government support for
banks was 11.4 billion pounds. The public sector net cash
requirement was 19.9 billion pounds, boosted by record September
interest payments on government debt. A cash deficit of 18
billion pounds was predicted by analysts. Net debt climbed to
966.8 billion pounds, or 62.6 percent of GDP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  
 Jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  