-- 
U.K. Stocks Advance on Optimism Euro Area Will Expand Bailout Fund

-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 
2011-10-21T16:04:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/u-k-stocks-rise-on-optimism-euro-area-will-expand-rescue-fund.html
U.K stocks climbed to an 11-week
high as European policy makers considered unleashing $1.3
trillion to help contain the debt crisis as they sought to break
a deadlock between Germany and France.  Miners and banks led the advance.  Rio Tinto  Group gained
4.5 percent, tracking copper and other commodities on the London
Metal Exchange.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  jumped 5.8 percent.  Weir Group Plc (WEIR) 
surged 5.9 percent after Bank of America Corp. said the oilfield
services company will benefit from increased shale oil
production.  The benchmark  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  added 103.97, or 1.9 percent,
to 5,488.65 at the close in London, the highest since Aug. 3.
The gauge has still tumbled 9.9 percent since February amid
concern that the debt crisis is worsening and the economy is
faltering. The broader FTSE All-Share Index also rose 1.9
percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index climbed 1.3 percent.  “Most traders appear to be waiting in the shadows, happy
to see what the latest round of Franco-German political arm-
wrestling will throw up come Monday,” Yusuf Heusen, a sales
trader at IG Index in  London , wrote in e-mailed comments.
“Those who have ventured out looking for action have been
broadly positive.”  Euro-area leaders may combine the region’s temporary and
planned permanent rescue funds as of mid-2012 to release as much
as 940 billion euros ($1.3 trillion) to fight the debt crisis.
The plan is also aimed at breaking an impasse between Germany
and France. The leaders will meet on Oct. 23 and again three
days later.  ‘Different Ballgame’  “Markets have sidestepped this week, disappointed the
event wasn’t sooner, but it’s not the end of the world,” said
Graham Bishop, a European equity strategist at the  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc. (RBS)  “If the discussions had broken down, it
would have been a whole different ballgame.”  Barclays led banks higher, surging 5.8 percent to 181.95
pence.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  climbed 3.9 percent to 32.87
pence. Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc rose 3.4 percent to
24.43 pence.  A report showed U.K. consumer confidence fell for a fourth
month in September as unemployment and inflation squeezed
Britons,  Nationwide Building Society  said. An index of sentiment
slipped 3 points from the previous month to 45, the lowest since
April, the Swindon, England-based lender said. A gauge of
consumers’ expectations fell to 62 from 65.  BOE Forecasts  The  Bank of England , which has restarted asset purchases to
aid the recovery, said this week that economic growth may stall
in the current quarter. The economy grew just 0.1 percent in the
second quarter, while unemployment rose to the highest in 15
years in the three months through August.  Copper surged 6.1 percent on the LME, trimming its weekly
decline. Rio Tinto, the world’s second-biggest mining company,
advanced 4.5 percent to 3,151 pence.  Antofagasta Plc (ANTO) , controlled
by the Luksic family, Chile’s richest, gained 5.5 percent to
1,096 pence.  BG Group Plc rose 2.7 percent to 1,354.5 pence after Nomura
Holdings Inc. recommended buying the shares and called the stock
one of its best investment ideas among integrated  oil companies .  Weir Group, the Glasgow-based engineering company, rallied
5.9 percent to 1,773 pence. Bank of America Alex Toms said he
sees the company benefiting from increased shale oil production
in the U.S. and that makes Weir a “very compelling”
investment.  Intercontinental Hotels Group Plc (IHG)  jumped 5 percent to 1,115
pence after Morgan Stanley included the company on a list of
“high conviction” shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  