-- 
U.K. Sees Former Colonies Backing Equality for Princesses Plan

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-10-21T16:11:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/u-k-sees-former-colonies-backing-equality-for-princesses-plan.html
Foreign Office minister David Howell
said he expects a British proposal to give royal daughters the
same rights to the throne as their brothers will be adopted at a
summit of Commonwealth leaders next week.  Current laws, including the  1700 Act of Settlement , give
male heirs precedence over their older sisters. The act also
excludes Roman Catholics or anyone married to a Roman Catholic
from becoming king or queen. For three decades, ministers have
resisted changing the law to end the discrimination on the
grounds that it’s too complicated and would need the agreement
of the other countries of which  Queen Elizabeth II  is monarch.  After  Prince William , the second in line to the throne,
married  Kate Middleton  in April, Prime Minister  David Cameron 
put changing the rules onto the agenda for the Commonwealth
Heads of Government summit in Perth, Australia, next week.  “It will be approved in the CHOGM in Perth,” Howell told
reporters in  London  today. “It is agreed that this is the right
way to go forward and processes should be set in motion,
legislative or otherwise, for it to happen.  Cameron proposed the change in a letter to counterparts in
15 former colonies last week. He also proposed a change in the
law that says that descendents of King George II, who reigned
from 1727 to 1760, can only marry with the permission of the
monarch. The law would change to say that only the first six in
line to the throne would need permission, the premier’s
spokesman, Steve Field, told reporters on Oct. 12.  Eleven attempts since 1981 to change the laws governing the
royal succession have failed through lack of government support.
A twelfth bill put forward by Labour lawmaker Keith Vaz is
currently before Parliament.  During a 1998 attempt to alter the law, Gareth Williams, a
member of  Tony Blair ’s government, said the queen had told
ministers she would have no objection to changes that would give
female heirs equal rights.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  