-- 
News Corp. May Face Questions Over Computer Hacking, Watson Says

-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e ,   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-10-21T22:01:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/u-k-lawmaker-watson-plans-new-revelations-at-news-corp-s-annual-meeting.html
Rupert Murdoch’s  News Corp. (NWSA) , rocked
by a phone-hacking scandal at one of its London newspapers, may
face questions about computer hacking too, according to a
British lawmaker at the company’s annual meeting today.  Tom Watson , a Labour lawmaker, said British police are
looking into at least three private investigators who have done
work for News Corp. newspapers, in addition to  Glenn Mulcaire ,
who was arrested in the phone-hacking scandal. At least one of
those investigators was breaking into computers, he said.  “In the U.K., the Serious Organized Crime Agency holds the
hard drives of a number of those investigators,” said Watson.
“News Corp. is potentially facing Mulcaire 2.”  Murdoch, chairman and chief executive officer, said he
wasn’t aware of computer hacking in the U.K. and told
shareholders News Corp. would investigate any issues.  “These rumors you speak of are being addressed,” Murdoch
said at the meeting in  Los Angeles . “We will put this right.”  Murdoch, 80, jousted with shareholders at the gathering,
parrying charges of lax oversight and employing wit as he sought
to disarm critics. He ended the meeting without reporting the
results of a board election and a shareholder bid to split the
CEO and chairman’s roles.  The company later reported that all directors had been
elected and the proposal to split the chairman and CEO roles
wasn’t approved. It said it will provide specific vote tallies
next week.  Teri Everett, a spokeswoman for News Corp., didn’t return
e-mails and a phone call seeking additional comment.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information,  Must Be ‘Principled’  Watson also questioned Murdoch about the involvement of
News Corp. employees with private investigator Jonathan Rees.
Rees did work for News International, the U.K. newspaper unit,
including at least 500 investigations, Watson said in an
interview before the meeting.  Murdoch responded, without specifying Rees, that some of
the things that happened years ago were “absolutely wrong” and
that the company was cooperating with police investigations.  During the meeting, Murdoch said News Corp. was performing
well in news, entertainment, sports and digital programming.
Still, the company must focus on more than finances, he said.  “We cannot just be a profitable company, we must be a
principled company,” he said. “There are real issues that we
must confront and are confronting. We could not taking this more
seriously.”  Milly Dowler   The 168-year-old News of the World was closed in July after
admitting it had hacked the phone of murdered schoolgirl Milly
Dowler. News Corp.’s U.K. unit today agreed to pay 3 million
pounds to settle claims by the family of Milly Dowler, who was
killed in 2002. The scandal has led to at least 16 arrests,
including former company executives.  News Corp. may be liable for “way, way, way more” than
the 20 million pounds ($32 million) it has set aside to settle
the cases, Watson said in an interview with Bloomberg Television
today.  Watson went straight from a hearing on phone-hacking in
Parliament in London to the airport for a flight to Los Angeles.  “I want to leave News Corp. investors in no doubt that the
scandal is not over,” Watson said today. “I don’t think the
board has been fully straight with investors.”  News Corp. spokeswoman Miranda Higham declined to comment
on Watson’s allegations before the meeting.  Today’s settlement includes a 2 million-pound payment to
the Dowler family and a 1 million-pound donation by  Rupert
Murdoch  to charity.  Including these two payments, News Corp. has agreed to pay
more than 4 million pounds in at least six settlements with
celebrities and crime victims -- including  Sienna Miller , Andy Gray,  Gordon Taylor  and  Max Clifford  -- who were the subjects of
News of the World stories.  ‘Not Acceptable’  News Corp., based in  New York , rose 2.1 percent to $17.20
and has gained 18 percent this year.  A member of the  Labour Party , Watson has used his seat on
Parliament’s Culture Committee since 2009 to pursue News Corp.
over hacking allegations. He was the lawmaker who informed
Parliament of the Dowler accusations.  Watson said he accepted that Rupert Murdoch and his family
control enough News Corp. shares to retain power.     After the
meeting was over, Watson said he wasn’t sure whether he had
accomplished his goal of persuading shareholders to push for
change.  “I don’t know,” he said. “We’ll have to wait and see.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in  London  at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  