-- 
U.S. Repo Close: Current 5-Year Note at Lowest Rate, Zero

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 
2011-10-21T15:16:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/u-s-repo-close-current-5-year-note-at-lowest-rate-zero.html
The following is a summary of
closing rates in the market for U.S. repurchase agreements, or
repos, in  New York .  All repo rates are for overnight transactions at the bid
side of the market as reported by GovPX Inc., a unit of ICAP
Plc, the world’s largest inter-dealer broker.  Lowest Repo Rate as of 10 a.m. New York time:  The current 5-year note closed at the lowest repo rate:
zero, unchanged.  Other Rates:  Old 2-year note: 0.09 percent, unchanged.  Current 2-year note: 0.06 percent, down from 0.07 percent.  Old 3-year note: 0.08 percent, down from 0.1 percent.  Current 3-year note: 0.1 percent, unchanged.  Old 5-year note: 0.09 percent, down from 0.1 percent.  Old 7-year note: 0.1 percent, unchanged.  Current 7-year note: 0.06 percent, down from 0.08 percent.  Old 10-year note: 0.01 percent, unchanged.  Current 10-year note: 0.09 percent, down from 0.1 percent.  Old 30-year bond: 0.09 percent, down from 0.1 percent.  Current 30-year bond: 0.08 percent, unchanged.  The bid for a security is the price that is quoted and
available for immediate sale of an asset. The offer is the price
available for immediate purchase of an asset.  Current issues are the most recently issued securities, and
old issues are those sold previously with the same maturity.  Specific  Treasury securities  in the greatest demand are
considered to be “on special.” Firms that want to borrow them
are willing to lend money overnight at rates below those on
general collateral or other Treasuries in exchange for them.  Behind the Numbers  Securities firms use repos to borrow money to finance
positions in Treasury, corporate and mortgage-backed securities.
They also borrow securities on reverse repos to make deliveries
of sales of securities the dealers don’t own, and engage in
speculative repo trading based on expectations for the future
direction of  interest rates .  Current 5- and 10-year notes often trade at the lowest repo
rates because they are widely used as hedges against positions
in corporate, mortgage and global debt.  General Collateral  Delivery repos: 0.1 percent, down from 0.11 percent. The
collateral is sent to an investor’s bank against receipt of
funds.  Triparty repos: 0.13 percent, down from 0.14 percent. A
clearing bank acts as a third party to make sure there’s
adequate collateral behind the repo and that it conforms
throughout the life of the transaction to the investor’s
requirements, providing the customer with an additional layer of
safety.  Securities firms are willing to pay higher rates to borrow
money through triparty repos because they can allocate leftover
collateral remaining at their clearing bank late in the day as
backing for the transactions, saving on delivery costs.  Rates on general repos, or those backed by non-specific
collateral, are usually set slightly below federal funds levels.  Treasury Bills  The three- and six-month Treasury bills closed at 0.1
percent, unchanged.  Federal Funds  Federal funds, the overnight interbank lending rate, was at
0.08 percent, within the  Federal Reserve ’s target range of zero
to 0.25 percent, according to ICAP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  