-- 
U.S. Open Champ McIlroy Leaves Chandler’s International Sports Management

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-10-21T14:08:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/u-s-open-champ-mcilroy-leaves-international-sports-management-chandler.html
U.S. Open golf champion  Rory McIlroy 
split with his agents at International Sports Management and
joined Horizon Sports Management.  The 22-year-old from Northern Ireland, third in the
 Official World Golf Ranking , had been with ISM and manager
Andrew “Chubby” Chandler since turning professional in 2007.  “Chubby and his team have played a very important role in
my success to date,” McIlroy said in a statement. “I have made
great progress under their management and for that I will always
be grateful.”  ISM said in a statement it was an “honor” to represent
McIlroy.  “We take great pride in the role ISM has played in guiding
him successfully through his formative years as a professional
golfer,” the company statement said. “Under our management he
has grown into an international figure and he leaves us as a
major champion.”  McIlroy joins friend and countryman Graeme McDowell, the
2010  U.S. Open  champion, and their Ryder Cup teammate Ross Fisher of England at Horizon. McDowell joined the Dublin-based
company after leaving ISM in 2007.  “I am now keen to move onto the next stage of my career
and I feel this will be facilitated by a fresh view and a new
structure around me,” McIlroy said.  Chandler also manages British Open champion  Darren Clarke ,
Masters winner  Charl Schwartzel , world No. 2 Lee Westwood and
2010 British Open champ  Louis Oosthuizen .  “Onward and upward,” Chandler said. “We have had quite a
brilliant year. The company is growing and adapting to ensure it
stays at the forefront of golf and the business of managing
players. We wish Rory every success.”  The split comes two days after McIlroy, Clarke, Schwartzel
and U.S. PGA champion Keegan Bradley took part in the two-day
Grand Slam of Golf, which matches the four major winners, in
 Bermuda . McIlroy was tied with Bradley after the first round but
shot 75 to finish to finish third, four shots behind the
American and three back of Schwartzel.  McIlroy has one victory and 11 top-10 finishes in 20
worldwide starts this year. He led the season’s first major at
the  Masters Tournament  in April by four shots after three rounds
but finished with an 8-over 80 to end 10 strokes back of
Schwartzel.  He rebounded to win the U.S. Open in June by eight shots,
setting 12 tournament records including his score of 16-under-
par, the lowest in the event’s 111-year history. He then
finished 25th and 64th at the year’s final two majors: the
British Open and U.S. PGA Championship.  McIlroy, who has two second-place finishes and two thirds
in his last four tournaments in Europe and  Asia , is scheduled to
play at next week’s Shanghai Masters in China, a non-Tour event
that offers golf’s richest first prize of $2 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 