-- 
U.S. Quarterly Venture Investment Rises 29%, Dow Jones Says

-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 
2011-10-21T13:24:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/u-s-venture-capital-investment-climbs-29-in-third-quarter.html
U.S. venture capital investments
climbed 29 percent to $8.4 billion in the third quarter as funds
raised by consumer Internet companies more than doubled from a
year earlier, according to Dow Jones VentureSource.  The Internet ventures, including search, entertainment and
social media, raised $1.3 billion, according to a statement
today from the unit of New York-based  News Corp. (NWSA)  Almost half of
all venture spending went to the newest companies.  The investments are “on pace to near pre-recession levels
by the end of the year,” Jessica Canning, global research
director for VentureSource, said in the statement.  An increase in deals, with 42 percent going to early stage
companies, shows venture capitalists are optimistic they will be
able to support future growth even as they struggle to raise
money themselves, Canning said. Such investors raised
$1.72 billion in the quarter, a drop of 53 percent from a year
earlier, according to the  National Venture Capital Association .  “It’s unclear how long venture capitalists can continue at
this pace,” Canning said.  Competition for second rounds of financing will be intense,
said Scott Austin, editor of Dow Jones VentureWire. For consumer
Internet companies, 57 percent of deals were in the seed or
first round, according to the statement.  Investment in companies that provide business and financial
services rose 65 percent to $1.5 billion, VentureSource said.  Medical device companies raised $857 million, which was
more than biopharmaceutical ventures for the first time since
1998. The biopharmaceutical total was $715 million.  The medical device investments were focused on later-stage
companies, with larger deals, according to VentureSource.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  