-- 
U.S. Corporate Credit Risk Gauge Falls to Lowest Level This Week

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-10-21T21:39:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/u-s-corporate-credit-risk-gauge-falls-to-lowest-level-in-a-week.html
A benchmark measure of U.S.
corporate credit risk fell to the lowest level this week amid
speculation policy makers are moving closer to a deal to contain
the euro-area debt crisis and the  Federal Reserve  may seek
further monetary easing.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, decreased 2.7 basis points to a
mid-price of 131 basis points at 5:04 p.m. in  New York ,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  The index, which typically falls as investor confidence
improves and rises as it deteriorates, has dropped from a more
than two-year high of 150.1 on Oct. 3 as investors have wagered
that European leaders may prevent the upheaval in the region’s
debt markets from infecting banks’ balance sheets globally.  Finance ministers are meeting in Brussels to lay the
groundwork for an Oct. 23 gathering of government leaders that
had been the deadline for a solution to the debt crisis. A
further summit was scheduled for Oct. 26 yesterday after Germany
and  France  said the European Union needs more time to seal a
“global and ambitious” accord.  “The markets remain at the mercy of European headlines as
risk assets are better bid on Friday,”  Adrian Miller , fixed-
income strategist at Miller Tabak Roberts Securities LLC in New
York, said in an e-mailed note. “Investors seemed encouraged by
the talk of combining the firepower” of the European Financial
Stability Facility and the European Stability Mechanism, he
wrote.  Repurchasing Stock  Credit-default swaps tied to the debt of  General Electric
Co. (GE) ’s finance unit General Electric Capital Corp., which pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt, declined 23.1 basis points
to 255.5 basis points, according to data provider CMA, as
tighter profit margins in the parent company’s industrial
businesses from energy to aviation overshadowed third-quarter
growth led by the finance unit.  GE paid $3.3 billion this month to repurchase preferred
stock sold to Warren Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  as
financial markets froze in October 2008. Contracts on Berkshire
Hathaway fell 15.7 to 187.1, the data show. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Federal Reserve Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  said a third
round of large-scale securities purchases might become
warranted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  