-- 
S&P 500 Caps Longest Weekly Gain Since February on Europe Bets

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-10-21T21:00:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/u-s-stock-index-futures-rise-as-europe-bailout-talks-intensify.html
U.S. stocks advanced, giving the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index its longest streak of weekly gains
since February, amid speculation of an agreement to contain
Europe’s debt crisis and further Federal Reserve stimulus.  Morgan Stanley and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  added at least 2.1
percent as European lenders rallied.  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  and  Boeing Co. (BA) 
rose more than 2.8 percent, pacing gains in companies most-tied
to the economy.  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  climbed 3.7 percent after
profit jumped as lower-priced items boosted U.S. store sales.
 Honeywell International Inc. (HON)  advanced 5.8 percent as a recovery
in commercial aerospace helped earnings climb 44 percent.  The S&P 500 increased 1.9 percent to 1,238.25 as of 4 p.m.
New York time, the highest level since Aug. 3. The gauge rose
1.1 percent since Oct. 14, gaining for a third straight week.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average climbed 267.01 points, or 2.3
percent, to 11,808.79 today, erasing its 2011 decline.  “There’s a sense that Europe will come out with something
that will calm down imminent fears of the crisis escalating out
of control,”  James Paulsen , chief investment strategist at
Minneapolis-based Wells Capital Management, which oversees about
$360 billion, said in a telephone interview. “Markets are also
digesting Federal Reserve lip service given to additional
quantitative easing moves. However, it appears most investors
are unsure whether additional easing is needed.”  Gains accelerated after the  S&P 500  climbed past 1,233.10,
its intraday peak on Oct. 18. A burst of trading in E-Mini S&P
500 futures occurred at that level, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Volume jumped to 31,774 contracts at 10:17 a.m.
New York time, the most for any minute of the day at that point.
Three rallies since the U.S. government was stripped of its AAA
credit rating by S&P have stopped around 1,220.  ‘Least Resistance’  “The path of least resistance is higher,”  Christopher Verrone , head of technical analysis at New York-based Strategas
Research Partners, said in a phone interview. “I’m interested
to see what happens in the 1,260-1,270 range. That is when we’ll
get more information on how durable this advance is.”  France retreated in a clash with Germany over how to expand
the power of  Europe ’s bailout fund after the first meeting in a
six-day marathon intended to solve the debt crisis. France’s
view that the fund, the European Financial Stability Facility,
should get a banking license enabling it to borrow from the
European Central Bank, “is not a definitive point of discussion
for us,” French Finance Minister  Francois Baroin  told reporters
today in Brussels. “What matters is what works.”  ‘Comprehensive’ Plan  French President Nicolas Sarkozy and German Chancellor
Angela Merkel are scheduled to meet tomorrow in Brussels before
a summit the next day and a follow-up leaders’ gathering on Oct.
26 to nail down what they’ve called a “comprehensive” plan.  “While we won’t get a definitive response from the
Europeans this weekend on how best to deal next with their debt
crisis, officials are still holding out hope that just a few
extra days will complete the job,”  Peter Boockvar , an equity
strategist at Miller Tabak & Co., wrote in a note today.  American banks rallied following gains in European lenders.
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  rose 2.5 percent to $17.02. Wells Fargo added 2.1
percent to $26.31.  Investors also reacted to comments from Fed Governor  Daniel Tarullo , who late yesterday called for resuming large-scale
purchases of mortgage bonds, boosting chances of a third round
of asset buying aimed at reviving growth. Today, Fed Vice
Chairman Janet Yellen said a third round of large-scale
securities purchases might become warranted if necessary.  ‘High Hurdles’  “While the hurdles for QE3 remain high, it’s still on the
table as an option,”  Alan Gayle , a senior strategist at
RidgeWorth Capital Management in Richmond, Virginia, which
oversees about $47 billion, said in a telephone interview. “It
becomes a question of whether or not it’s effective.”  The Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index of companies most-tied to
the economy rose 3 percent. The Dow Jones Transportation
Average, a proxy for the economy, added 2.2 percent. Alcoa, the
largest U.S. aluminum producer, advanced 2.8 percent to $10.23.
Boeing climbed 3.4 percent to $64.59.  Earnings reports have also gained investors’ attention
today. Profit for S&P 500 companies will climb 16 percent in the
third quarter and rise 18 percent to a record $99.25 for all of
2011, according to analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
About three quarters of the S&P 500 companies that reported
results since Oct. 11 beat analysts’ estimates.  McDonald’s added 3.7 percent to $92.32. Chief Executive
Officer Jim Skinner has sought to draw American diners with low-
priced menu items, such as the $1 McDouble burger, as the
nation’s 9.1 percent unemployment rate saps  consumer confidence .
Sales in the U.S. were driven by fruit smoothies, Chicken
McNuggets and breakfast foods, the company said.  Honeywell Climbs  Honeywell climbed 5.8 percent to $51.28 as the company also
increased its full-year forecast. Honeywell and other U.S.
manufacturers have posted earnings growth this year amid a
slowing economy by keeping costs in check and expanding abroad.
Aerospace sales rose 8 percent in the quarter, the company said.  Seagate Technology Plc (STX)  surged 28 percent, the most since it
went public in 2002, to $15.42. ThinkEquity LLC analysts said
that the maker of disk drives may gain market share from rival
Western Digital Corp. due to recent Thai floods.  Energy and raw material producers gained as the S&P GSCI
Index of commodities advanced 1 percent.  Freeport-McMoRan Copper
& Gold Inc. (FCX)  gained 5.2 percent to $36.58.  ConocoPhillips (COP)  added
2.2 percent to $71.83.  General Electric Co. (GE)  slid 1.9 percent, the biggest decline
in the Dow, to $16.31 as tighter profit margins in industrial
businesses from energy to aviation overshadowed third-quarter
growth led by the finance unit.  Transport Companies  Companies transporting holiday merchandise may outperform
the stock market as a rise in consumer spending indicates
seasonal shopping may be better than forecast.  Retailers were cautious when they placed orders this summer
amid concerns the economy was “falling apart” and headed for a
double-dip recession, said David Ross, a Baltimore-based
transportation analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. Even though
September retail sales rose the most in seven months, shares of
trucking and airfreight companies still reflect pessimistic
forecasts, he said.  “There is a greater chance of a positive holiday-shopping
surprise than a negative one,” said Ross, who maintains “buy”
ratings on  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  and Old Dominion Freight
Line Inc. If retailers are caught short after under-ordering,
the peak shipping period -- typically July through September --
will occur later, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  