-- 
UBS, Commercial Bank, Microsoft, Wal-Mart in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-10-21T11:11:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/ubs-commercial-bank-microsoft-wal-mart-edf-in-court-news.html
Kweku Adoboli, the trader accused of
costing  UBS AG (UBSN)  $2.3 billion by making unauthorized trades,
falsified records on exchange-traded-fund transactions,
prosecutors said.  Prosecutors amended two of the four charges against Adoboli
to indicate that records he allegedly falsified were on ETF
trades. A  London  magistrates court yesterday transferred the
case against the 31-year-old to a criminal court where he will
be expected to enter a plea on the accusations at a Nov. 22
hearing.  The charges, which also include two counts of fraud and
date back to 2008, cover “a large number of transactions,”
prosecutor David Williams said at the hearing yesterday. “He
exposed the bank to risk of large losses.”  Adoboli has been in custody since his arrest on Sept. 15,
when UBS asked the City of London police to detain him after he
reported the losses. He was charged two days later with fraud
and false accounting. The trading loss prosecutors claim he was
responsible for led to the departures of Chief Executive Officer
 Oswald Gruebel  and the co-heads of the Swiss bank’s global
equities business. Adoboli was fired by the bank on Sept. 17,
Williams said.  ETFs are exchange-listed products that mirror indexes,
commodities, bonds and currencies and allow investors to buy and
sell them like stocks.  Adoboli, who holds a Ghanaian passport, appeared before a
panel of three judges yesterday and his lawyer Patrick Gibbs
said he wouldn’t indicate how his client planned to plead. He
said through his lawyer at a hearing last month he was “sorry
beyond words” for his “disastrous miscalculations.”  For more, click here.  SEC Cases Bypass Top Executives, Target Employees for Negligence  A central piece of evidence against  Citigroup Inc. (C)  that led
to a $285 million settlement with the Securities and Exchange
Commission is an e-mail message from a former employee to his
supervisor, Bloomberg News’ Joshua Gallu and Jesse Hamilton
report.  “Don’t tell” a counterparty that Citigroup is shorting
the security, former employee Brian Stoker wrote in 2006 to his
unnamed supervisor. The agency sued Stoker, saying he was
responsible for structuring the deal in which Citigroup failed
to disclose that it had chosen about half the assets and was
betting they would decline in value. No charges were announced
against the supervisor.  That detail highlights a pattern in SEC enforcement cases
that is drawing criticism from lawyers and lawmakers: Even as
the agency has collected  $2 billion  in penalties from financial
firms for wrongdoing related to the 2008 financial crisis, few
top executives have been sanctioned, particularly in connection
with complex instruments like collateralized-debt obligations.  “It’s very good to hold a corporation responsible, but
these corporations are run by people,” Representative Michael
Capuano, a Massachusetts Democrat and senior member of the House
Financial Services subcommittee on investigations, said in an
interview. “It’s impossible for me to believe” a firm would
allow an individual to make deals without supervision that later
“are found to be so beyond the pale that someone has to pay
hundreds of millions of dollars in punishment.”  Stoker’s attorney, Fraser Hunter, said his client will
“defend this lawsuit vigorously.”  The SEC has faced growing criticism from investors,
lawmakers and judges who have claimed the agency has been more
concerned about reaching expedient settlements with companies
than rooting out wrongdoing by individuals that may have
contributed to the 2008 financial crisis.  SEC officials have countered that many of the causes of the
financial crisis involved poor decision-making that might not
qualify as illegal.  “Let’s keep in mind that obviously not all losses in the
financial crisis resulted from fraud and misconduct,” SEC
Enforcement Director  Robert Khuzami  said Oct. 19 in an interview
with Bloomberg Television. “We can’t sue people based on poor
judgment or poor risk-management policies or procedures or
investments that perform badly.”  For more, click here.  Failed Bank’s Shabudin, Yu Plead Not Guilty in Fraud Case  Former United Commercial Bank executives Ebrahim Shabudin
and Thomas Yu pleaded not guilty to hiding loan losses from
auditors and investors in the failed San Francisco-based bank.  Shabudin, a former chief credit officer, and Yu, a former
credit risk manager, were charged by federal prosecutors with
six counts. The pair and Thomas Wu, the bank’s former chief
executive officer, were also sued by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission and accused of hiding $65 million in loan
losses before the bank collapsed.  Shabudin and Yu were the first senior bank officials
charged with fraud at a financial institution that got money
from the government’s Trouble Assets Relief Program, known as
TARP. The program was meant to shore up financial institutions
hit with losses from mortgage-backed securities.  United Commercial received $298 million from TARP in
November 2008 after Yu and Shabudin manipulated books and
records to conceal the amount of bad loans and avoid publicly
reporting losses, according to a Sept. 15 indictment.  The bank failed in November of that year and was taken over
by the government, which has paid out $397 million. The failure
has cost the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.’s insurance fund
$2.5 billion, the SEC said in its complaint. No TARP funds have
been repaid.  Shabudin and Yu were released yesterday after the judge
ordered them each to post a $500,000 property bond. The next
court hearing is scheduled for Nov. 4.  The criminal case is U.S. v Shabudin, 3:11-cr-00664, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of  California  (San Francisco).
The SEC case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Wu, 4:11-
cv-04988, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(Oakland).  For more, click here.  Two Oil Traders Admit Kickbacks to Ex-LyondellBasell Worker  Two oil traders pleaded guilty to paying more than $20
million in kickbacks to a former LyondellBasell Industries NV
executive who scheduled oil shipments for the company’s Houston
refinery.  Traders Bernard Langley, 54, of the U.K., and Clyde
Meltzer, 65, of Houston and Livingston,  New Jersey , said in
federal court in Houston that they paid the kickbacks to
LyondellBasell’s Jonathan Barnes, according to a statement by
the U.S. attorney’s office. Barnes agreed to pay above-market
shipping rates to tanker companies controlled by the two traders
to transport Venezuelan crude oil to Houston, in exchange for
one-third of the profits the traders received, prosecutors said.  “From 2007 through late 2009, when new management at
Lyondell discovered the overcharges, Langley and Meltzer used
Swiss bank accounts to pay Barnes more than $20 million in
kickbacks,” Houston U.S. Attorney Kenneth Magidson said in the
statement.  Langley and Meltzer agreed to forfeit more than $20 million
in assets, including cash from bank accounts in Switzerland and
Monoco, luxury and classic cars, jewelry, real estate in Texas
and Florida, and their investment in a Houston sports bar,
according to Magidson.  Langley and Meltzer could be sentenced to as much as 20
years in prison and ordered to pay restitution of as much as $57
million when they are sentenced in January, according to
Magidson’s statement. The two men have been in federal custody
since December, when both were arrested in Houston after a
recorded meeting with Barnes.  Barnes was indicted in November of last year and has been
cooperating with prosecutors. He pleaded guilty to his role in
the scheme in March, according to court records.  “We found a problem, we reported it, and we worked closely
with the U.S. attorney’s office in Houston to identify what had
happened,”  David Harpole , a spokesman for Rotterdam-based
LyondellBasell, said in a phone interview yesterday. He said the
company discovered the kickbacks when an internal audit “raised
questions about certain marine charter payments that were
outside the norms.”  The case is U.S. v. Barnes, H-10-787-S, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  New Suits  Microsoft Sued by MiniFrame Over Alleged Unfair Competition  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the world’s largest software maker, was
sued by Israel-based MiniFrame Ltd. for allegedly offering
anticompetitive terms for multiserver operating systems.  MiniFrame said Microsoft uses its monopoly on the client
operating-system market to interfere with potential partners and
customers. Before 2007, Microsoft didn’t include any
restrictions in its licenses that would prevent multiple users,
MiniFrame said in a complaint filed yesterday in  Manhattan 
federal court.  MiniFrame alleges that Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft
is attempting to retain its monopoly on the server operating-
system market and the client operating-system market and is
attempting to monopolize the personal-computer sharing software
market and the multiuser software market.  “Microsoft recognized the competitive threat which shared
PC systems posed and engaged in several anticompetitive
strategies in order to ensure that it will maintain or otherwise
have a monopoly for any multiuser market, whether it be the
server operating system market, the PC sharing software market,
or the combination of the two markets,” MiniFrame said.  MiniFrame said there no technological reason multiple users
can’t access or use the same Windows Client Operating System at
the same time.  A Microsoft representative didn’t return a voice-mail
message seeking comment about the complaint.  The case is MiniFrame v. Microsoft Corp. 11-CV-7419, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  Wedbush Lawsuit Says Ex-Employees Took Secrets to Liquidnet  Wedbush Securities Inc. sued two former employees and
trading platform Liquidnet Holdings Inc., accusing them of
taking customer lists, documents and disclosures from the firm.  The suit accuses New York-based Liquidnet, used by
institutional investors to buy and sell large blocks of shares,
and the ex-employees, Louis Kerner and Michael Silverstein, of
working together to take proprietary information from Wedbush in
order to start the same business at Liquidnet.  Liquidnet said on Oct. 17 that it hired Kerner to run a new
group focused on private companies, and that he would be joined
by Silverstein. Wedbush filed the lawsuit yesterday in New York
State Supreme Court in Manhattan.  “Kerner, Silverstein and Liquidnet engaged, and continue
to engage, in the premeditated taking and misappropriation of
certain of Wedbush’s most valuable trade secret and confidential
and proprietary information,” Wedbush said in the complaint.  Liquidnet received the lawsuit and is reviewing it closely,
Melissa Kanter, a spokeswoman for the company, said in an e-
mail. She declined to comment further on the complaint.  Kerner began working for Los Angeles-based Wedbush in its
New York office in April 2010 and had been managing director of
its Private Shares Group since March, while Silverstein began
working in Wedbush’s  Los Angeles  office in February and had been
reporting to Kerner and others since April, Wedbush said in the
complaint.  Kerner called a Wedbush managing director on Oct. 16 and
told him that he and Silverstein would be joining a competitor
the next day, Wedbush said in the complaint. The managing
director, Cyrus Pirasteh, reminded Kerner of his confidentiality
obligations, and Kerner replied that the Private Shares Group’s
clients belonged to him and that Wedbush could speak to his
lawyers if the firm had “a problem with that,” according to
the complaint.  The case is Wedbush Securities Inc. v. Liquidnet Inc.,
652875/2011, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Ex-Louis Berger Group President Charged With False Claims  The former president and chief executive officer of Louis
Berger Group Inc., a New Jersey engineering consulting firm, was
charged with overbilling the U.S. government on overseas
reconstruction projects.  Derish Wolff, 76, was accused of conspiring to defraud the
U.S. Agency for International Development by inflating overhead
and other indirect costs over almost two decades on hundreds of
millions of dollars in contracts in Iraq and Afghanistan. He
surrendered yesterday to the Federal Bureau of Investigation in
Newark, New Jersey.  “During decades at the helm of a company entrusted with
the rebuilding of battle-scarred nations Derish Wolff focused on
profits over progress,” U.S. Attorney Paul Fishman said in a
statement. “Wolff allegedly used his position to lead others in
the scheme, setting targets that could be reached only through
fraud.”  The indictment follows an agreement by the company on Nov.
5 to pay $69.3 million to resolve criminal and civil probes
related to overbilling for reconstruction contracts in Iraq and
Afghanistan and other work. Two former executives also pleaded
guilty that day in federal court in Newark.  Wolff was charged with conspiring with Salvatore Pepe, the
former chief financial officer, and Precy Pellettieri, the
former controller, who admitted to conspiring to defraud USAID.
The Wolff indictment, unsealed yesterday, doesn’t specify a
specific amount of loss by the government.  Wolff, a resident of Miami and Bernardsville, New Jersey,
appeared in federal court in Newark, where he was released on $1
million bail. He faces as long as 10 years in prison on the
conspiracy charge and five years on each of five counts of
filing false claims.  “Mr. Wolff intends to plead not guilty because he is not
guilty, and he looks forward to establishing it in court,” his
attorney, Herbert Stern, said in a phone interview.  The case is U.S. v. Wolff, U.S. District Court, District of
New Jersey (Newark).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Trials  Wal-Mart’s Massmart Purchase Faces South Africa Court Appeal  South African government lawyers urged the Competition
Appeal Court to compel regulators to review a decision allowing
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  to buy control of  Massmart Holdings Ltd. (MSM) ,
saying they failed to adequately consider the public interest.  The Competition Tribunal ruled on May 31 that the world’s
biggest retailer could proceed with the deal on condition no
jobs are cut for two years and the companies set up a 100
million-rand ($12.4 million) fund to assist local suppliers and
manufacturers. The government objected, saying the conditions
were inadequate to protect the economy and prevent a surge in
imports undermining manufacturing output.  “The question before court is whether the merger can or
cannot be justified on public-interest grounds,” Wim Trengove,
the government’s senior counsel, told the court yesterday. “The
tribunal erred” by failing to place the onus on the companies
to prove they wouldn’t increase imports and destroy jobs.  Wal-Mart, based in Bentonville, Arkansas, paid 16.5 billion
rand in June for a 51 percent stake in Massmart, South Africa’s
biggest food and general-goods wholesaler. The U.S. company
outlined plans on June 26 to create 15,000 jobs in South Africa
within five years and allocate most of an expected 60 billion
rand in additional purchases of food or fast-moving consumer
goods to local suppliers in that period.  In court papers filed on July 20, Economic Development
Minister Ebrahim Patel, Trade and Industry Minister Rob Davies
and Forestry and Fisheries Minister Tina Joemat-Pettersson said
the transaction should be reconsidered because the tribunal’s
hearings were flawed.  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Mattel Wins Dismissal of MGA Entertainment’s Antitrust Lawsuit  Mattel Inc. (MAT)  won dismissal of an MGA Entertainment Inc.
lawsuit accusing it of antitrust violations related to the fight
between the two companies over MGA’s Bratz dolls.  U.S. District Judge David Carter in Santa Ana, California,
said in yesterday’s ruling that MGA’s claims against Mattel
should have been, or might have been, raised in earlier
lawsuits. Carter, saying it didn’t “appear impossible for MGA
to allege anticompetitive conduct” after a cutoff date in
August 2010, gave the company until Nov. 11 to file an amended
complaint to make those claims.  MGA said in its antitrust complaint filed in February that
it sought $1 billion in damages and asked that the amount be
tripled for the alleged antitrust violations. The Van Nuys,
California-based company accused Mattel and Chief Executive
Officer Robert Eckert of embracing a “litigate MGA to death”
strategy.  Susan Hale, an MGA spokeswoman, didn’t immediately return
phone and e-mail messages seeking comment on the ruling after
regular business hours yesterday.  The case is MGA Entertainment v. Mattel, 11-01063, U.S.
District Court, Central District of California (Los Angeles.)  Pfizer Settles Whistle-Blower Suit Over Detrol Marketing  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  agreed to pay $14.5 million to settle a lawsuit
brought by two whistle-blowers who claimed the company
improperly marketed its bladder-control drug Detrol.  The whistle-blowers, former sales representatives David
Wetherholt and Marci Drimer, sued Pfizer in federal court in
Boston in 2006, claiming the company cheated Medicaid, the
state-administered, federal health-care program for low-income
people, by pushing Detrol for a prostate condition. The suit was
filed under the False Claims Act on behalf of the U.S. and
multiple states.  Pfizer will pay $14.5 million to the U.S. government, 49
states and the District of Columbia, Thomas M. Greene, a lawyer
for the whistle-blowers, said yesterday in a statement. The ex-
Pfizer employees will receive 27 percent of the federal portion
of the recovery, or about $3.3 million, he said.  “The plan to market Detrol off-label to new patient
populations was hatched by a marketing team, not by research and
development,” Greene said in an interview. “Instead of asking,
‘Who will Detrol help?’ or even, ‘How does Detrol work?’ the
question became, ‘Who can we convince to buy Detrol?’”  Pfizer denied any wrongdoing. The New York-based company
settled the lawsuit on “favorable terms,” it said yesterday in
a statement.  “This settlement allows Pfizer to avoid the cost and
distraction of litigation and put this matter behind us,” the
company said.  The U.S. declined to intervene, or join, the Detrol lawsuit
in 2009. The whistle-blowers pursued the claim on their own
after that decision, Greene said.  Wetherholt and Drimer also alleged Pfizer forced them out
after they complained about marketing practices. Greene declined
to comment on whether their claims of wrongful termination were
settled.  Wetherholt and Drimer will also receive an undetermined
amount from the $2.62 million portion of the settlement shared
by the states, Greene said.  “They will receive a percentage of the state settlements
for those states with false claims acts,” he said.  The case is U.S. ex. rel. Wetherholt v. Pfizer Inc.,
06-10204, U.S. District Court, District of Massachusetts
(Boston).  EDF Aid Appeal Should Be Reviewed, EU Court Adviser Says  Electricite de  France  SA,  Europe ’s biggest power producer,
may lose a case over more than 1.2 billion euros ($1.65 billion)
in French government aid if the European Union’s top court
follows its adviser’s opinion.  Advocate General Jan Mazak of the  EU Court of Justice  said
yesterday in a non-binding opinion that a lower court made
errors in a 2009 ruling in favor of EDF and it should re-examine
the case.  The EU’s executive agency is challenging a court’s ruling
in December 2009 overturning its decision that aid EDF received
from France was unlawful. The EU General Court, the region’s
second-highest court, at the time said the European Commission’s
analysis of the subsidies was flawed.  The commission ordered the Paris-based utility in 2003 to
pay 889 million euros in back taxes plus interest due since
1997, when EDF booked a tax concession related to its ownership
of France’s high-voltage electricity network. EDF repaid France
more than 1.2 billion euros.  EDF appealed to the  EU court  in 2004 arguing the commission
made mistakes and forced a repayment far greater than what was
due. The commission checks whether government aid distorts
competition in the 27-nation EU.  The advocate general yesterday said the EU General Court
improperly assessed how the commission should have examined the
state aid to EDF.  “EDF takes note of the advocate general’s opinion which
doesn’t prejudge the final ruling of the court, which is
expected in 2012,” a spokeswoman for EDF said by telephone
yesterday.  The commission “notes with interest the opinion of the
Advocate General” and waits for the court’s ruling, according
to Amelia Torres, a spokeswoman for EU Competition Commissioner
 Joaquin Almunia .  The case is C-124/10, Commission v. EDF.  Ex-Le-Nature’s Chief Executive Officer Sentenced to 20 Years  Former Le-Nature’s Inc. Chief Executive Officer Gregory J.
Podlucky was sentenced to 20 years in prison for fraud, tax
evasion and money-laundering related to the 2006 collapse of the
bottled-water company.  Podlucky was the mastermind behind a scheme that cost
lenders, shareholders and others $684.5 million, Assistant U.S.
Attorney James Y. Garrett said in court papers filed yesterday.
Podlucky was sentenced yesterday in U.S. District Court in
Pittsburgh to the maximum allowed under a plea agreement,
Garrett said in an interview.  “Whether or not defendant’s conduct should be deplored as
evil, the ingenuity, industry and magnitude of his extraordinary
crimes are plain to see,” Garrett said in court papers.  Podlucky’s brother Jonathan and at least three other Le-
Nature’s employees also pleaded guilty to charges related to the
fraud, according to court papers.  Alexander H. Lindsay Jr., Podlucky’s attorney, didn’t
return a call for comment on the sentence.  The case is U.S. v. Podlucky, 2:09-cr-00279, U.S. District
Court, Western District of Pennsylvania (Pittsburgh).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Lawsky Juggles Conflicting Roles as Financial Cop in N.Y.  Ben Lawsky, the first person to head New York’s newly
established Financial Services Department, said he’ll be
juggling conflicting roles of enforcer and promoter as he
oversees the state’s banks and insurance companies.  “Being a better consumer-protection agency and fraud
detector, while keeping New York the financial center of the
world, aren’t necessarily contradictory,” Lawsky, 41, said
during an interview in his office in lower Manhattan. “But
doing this well requires a delicate balance that’s hard to
achieve.”  New York Governor Andrew Cuomo initially proposed investing
Lawsky’s department with powers comparable to those of the state
attorney general. The idea got scaled back, though the
legislature did give Lawsky oversight of new financial products
that fall outside the jurisdiction of existing regulations. That
was designed to counter what Lawsky called Wall Street’s history
of devising products that circumvent regulation.  “This is designed for the future,” Lawsky said. “We will
have oversight of products intentionally designed to be neither
fish nor fowl, where they’re not a commodity, not a security and
not insurance -- products designed to fall into regulatory
gaps.”  Lawsky, who will monitor about 4,400 financial companies
managing more than $6.2 trillion in assets, is “a prosecutor at
heart” who will take an aggressive approach, said Neil
Barofsky, the former special inspector general for the Troubled
Assets Relief Program and an ex-colleague.  A former assistant U.S. attorney, Lawsky also spent four
years as the top financial crimes prosecutor for then-New York
Attorney General Cuomo, and was in the thick of Cuomo’s effort
to force banks that received taxpayer bailouts to disclose
sensitive information about bonus payments.  Lawsky led the probe into $3.6 billion in bonuses Merrill
Lynch & Co. gave executives as  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  acquired
the company. As Cuomo’s special assistant, he was the prime
mover behind the ongoing lawsuit filed in early 2010 accusing
former Bank of America Chief Executive Officer Ken Lewis of
misleading shareholders and government officials about Merrill’s
financial condition.  For more, click here.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 