-- 
Hundred-Year Bond Sales Born at Yale Grow to Most Since 1996: Muni Credit

-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-10-21T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/hundred-year-bonds-born-at-yale-are-most-since-1996-muni-credit.html
Ohio State University, with the
largest U.S. single-campus student population, joined the
University of  Southern California  and  Massachusetts Institute of
Technology  selling the most 100-year school bonds in 15 years.  The institution, started in 1870, sold $500 million of
taxable century bonds rated AA on Oct. 19 priced to yield 4.85
percent, 1.7 percentage points more than 30-year U.S.
Treasuries, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Investors
ordered three times the amount of bonds on sale, said Geoffrey Chatas, chief financial officer of the Columbus-based school.  The  Federal Reserve ’s plan to push down interest rates by
buying long-term Treasuries, and investors fleeing possible bond
defaults in  Europe , helped cut the 30-year U.S. debt yield to
2.7 percent on Oct. 4, the lowest since January 2009. That has
forced buyers to look for higher yields elsewhere.  “You have the central bank trying to drive down long-term
 interest rates  that are already unusually low,” said Philip Fischer, the former head of municipal market research at Merrill
Lynch & Co. who now runs the adviser eBooleant Consulting Inc.
in  New York . “Buyers largely have to take what they’re given.”  About 60 century bonds have been sold since 1993, including
at least five by private nonprofit or public universities,
according to Chicago-based corporate adviser Development
Specialists Inc.  Yale University  in  New Haven ,  Connecticut , was
the first school to experiment with the security, borrowing $125
million in 1996, the group said.  School Debt  Top-rated MIT, based in Cambridge, Massachusetts, borrowed
$750 million at 130 basis points more than Treasuries in May.
Los Angeles-based USC, rated AA, two steps below the  Standard &
Poor’s  top grade, sold $300 million of 100-year bonds in August
at 174 basis points over Treasuries.  The average AAA rated tax-exempt bond maturing in 30 years
yielded 3.66 percent yesterday, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Tax-exempt AA rated education bonds yielded 4.56
percent.  Non-school sellers of century bonds include  Norfolk
Southern Corp. (NSC) , a railroad rated BBB+ that borrowed $400 million
in May.  Mexico , rated BBB, sold $1 billion of the securities
last October and another $1 billion in August.  Taxable bonds like those sold by Ohio State, MIT and USC
are often an alternative because of restrictions sometimes
placed on the private use of facilities built with tax-exempt
financing, said Allen Marcum, director of budget, finance and
treasury at MIT. The U.S.  Internal Revenue Service  can revoke
the tax-exempt status of securities if borrowers run afoul of
the rules.  Tracking Nightmare  “Whenever you are tracking private use in all of these
facilities, it turns into a nightmare,” Marcum said this week
at a nonprofit finance conference in New York.  Insurance companies bought $352 million of the MIT debt
while mutual funds and other asset managers bought most of the
rest, Marcum said in a presentation.  Anthony Crescenzi , a strategist and portfolio manager at
Pacific Investment Management Co. in  Newport Beach ,  California ,
which invests $1.3 trillion, said 100-year bonds help insurance
companies match long-term liabilities with assets.  “For issuers,” he said, “a 100-year bond can make a
strong statement about its ability to remain a going concern.”  Ohio State, with 56,000 students on its Columbus campus,
decided to sell a 100-year bond about six weeks ago after the
USC and MIT offerings, said Chatas, the finance director. The
school is in the midst of a five-year $2 billion capital
expansion and expects to borrow $1.6 billion for a medical
center, research facilities and student housing, he said.  “When the century bond market heated up, we decided we
ought to take a look at it,” said Chatas, who joined Ohio State
last year from an asset-management division at JPMorgan Chase &
Co. “We believe we’re going to be here long term.”  Following are descriptions of pending sales of U.S.
municipal debt:  CHICAGO TRANSIT AUTHORITY, the nation’s second-largest
public-transport system, plans to sell $559.7 million of debt,
including $455 million of sales-tax revenue bonds for rail cars
and capital improvements, as soon as next week, according to a
preliminary official statement. Wells Fargo Securities will lead
a syndicate of banks. The bonds are rated Aa3 by Moody’s, its
fifth-highest grade. (Added Oct. 21)  DALLAS  AND FORT WORTH will sell $106 million of taxable
revenue refunding bonds as soon as next week, according to a
preliminary official statement. The sale will repay debt for
Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport, the world’s eighth-
largest. Citigroup Inc. will lead the sale. The bonds are rated
A+ by S&P, fifth-highest. (Added Oct. 21)  MASSACHUSETTS  SCHOOL BUILDING AUTHORITY, with $648 million
of general revenue last fiscal year, will sell $600 million of
senior sales-tax bonds as soon as next week, according to a
preliminary official statement. The bonds will fund local school
construction and repairs. Barclay’s Capital will lead banks.
(Added Oct. 20)  ILLINOIS, which approved the biggest tax increase in state
history to close a deficit this year, plans to sell $300 million
of Build Illinois sales-tax revenue bonds by competitive bid as
early as next week, according to a preliminary official
statement. The debt will fund infrastructure, educational and
vocational projects and provide incentives for businesses to
hire workers in the state. The bonds carry S&P’s top AAA grade.
(Added Oct. 19)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael McDonald in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  