-- 
United Commercial Bank, Hedge Funds, EU Rules: Compliance

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-10-21T11:43:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/united-commercial-bank-sac-hedge-funds-eu-rules-compliance.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  disclosed $1.3
billion of new expenses tied to faulty mortgages and
foreclosures in its third quarter, pushing the bill for the five
biggest home lenders since 2007 to almost $69 billion.  JPMorgan, the biggest  U.S. bank  by assets, set aside $314
million for buying back defective loans and incurred $1 billion
in litigation costs caused mostly by mortgages, according to its
Oct. 13 report. That brought the New York-based bank’s total to
at least $17.6 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Cost are mounting as borrowers, investors and states accuse
banks of sloppy lending and improper foreclosures. The total may
top $120 billion because mortgage buyers such as  Fannie Mae  are
becoming more aggressive, said  Paul Miller , the FBR  Capital
Markets  & Co. analyst, and claims are spreading to loans written
after banks said they reformed their practices.  “This is still far from over,” said  Neil Barofsky , former
inspector general for the U.S. Troubled Asset Relief Program.
“These numbers are very high to begin with, but this is now an
enormous overhang on the industry, and it’s well deserved.
Sooner or later the banks will pay the price for their
behavior.”  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Failed Bank’s Shabudin, Yu Plead Not Guilty in Fraud Case  Former United Commercial Bank executives Ebrahim Shabudin
and Thomas Yu pleaded not guilty to hiding loan losses from
auditors and investors in the failed San Francisco-based bank.  Federal prosecutors had charged Shabudin, a former chief
credit officer, and Yu, a former credit risk manager, with six
counts on Sept. 15. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
also sued the pair, along with Thomas Wu, the bank’s former
chief executive officer, accusing them of hiding $65 million in
loan losses before the bank collapsed.  Shabudin and Yu were the first senior bank officials
charged with fraud at a financial institution that got money
from the government’s Troubled Assets Relief Program, known as
TARP. United Commercial received $298 million from TARP in
November 2008.  According to the government, in September 2008 Yu and
Shabudin began manipulating books and records to conceal
nonperforming loans and avoid publicly reporting losses from bad
loans. The executives hid the fact that loan collateral and
repossessed property had declined in value, the government said.
Their conduct allegedly caused the bank to issue false and
misleading information through a press release, an earnings call
and its annual report in early 2009.  The bank failed in November 2009 and the failure is
estimated to have cost the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.’s
insurance fund $2.5 billion, the SEC said in its complaint. No
TARP funds have been repaid.  United Commercial was one of the 10 biggest bank failures
to result from the 2008 credit crisis, the SEC said.  Shabudin and Yu were released yesterday after the judge
ordered them each to post a $500,000 property bond. The next
court hearing is scheduled for Nov. 4.  The criminal case is U.S. v Shabudin, 3:11-cr-00664, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of  California  ( San Francisco ).
The SEC case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Wu, 4:11-
cv-04988, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(Oakland).  SAC Says Cougar Investment Was Based on Public Information  SAC Capital Advisors LP, the $14 billion hedge fund run by
 Steven A. Cohen  reportedly under investigation for  insider
trading , said its investment in Cougar Biotechnology Inc. before
 Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  bought the company in 2009 was “perfectly
reasonable” and based on publicly available information.  “We have not been contacted by any regulatory authority
related to this matter, but we would of course cooperate should
there be an inquiry,” Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for the
Stamford, Connecticut-based firm, said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is examining
trades in Cougar by SAC and other hedge funds to determine if
they profited from inside information of the takeover, the Wall
Street Journal reported yesterday, citing people familiar with
the matter.  SAC Capital, which hasn’t been charged with any wrongdoing,
bought 400 shares in Los Angeles-based Cougar in the fourth
quarter of 2007 and built up its stake to 632,291 shares by the
first quarter of 2009, according to government filings. Cougar
was bought by  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J in July of
that year.  Cougar was subject to speculation that it would be a
takeover target since at least November 2008 when Merger Market,
a Web-based news service, said that it may be bought.  The SEC is investigating whether Leerink Swann LLC, a
Boston-based investment bank that runs an expert-network
consulting firm, leaked nonpublic information to traders, the
Journal said. Such firms connect investors with industry
professionals. Joseph Gentile, a spokesman for Leerink, wasn’t
immediately available for comment.  Ex-UBS Trader Falsified ETF Transactions, Prosecutor Says  Kweku Adoboli, the trader accused of costing  UBS AG (UBSN)  $2.3
billion by making unauthorized trades, falsified records on
exchange-traded-fund transactions, prosecutors said.  Prosecutors amended two of the four charges against Adoboli
to indicate that records he allegedly falsified were on ETF
trades. A  London  magistrates court yesterday transferred the
case against the 31-year-old to a criminal court where he will
be expected to enter a plea on the accusations at a Nov. 22
hearing.  The charges, which also include two counts of fraud and
date back to 2008, cover “a large number of transactions,”
prosecutor David Williams said at the hearing yesterday. “He
exposed the bank to risk of large losses.”  Adoboli has been in custody since his arrest on Sept. 15,
when UBS asked the City of London police to detain him after he
reported the losses. He was charged two days later with fraud
and false accounting. The trading loss prosecutors claim he was
responsible for led to the departures of Chief Executive Officer
 Oswald Gruebel  and the co-heads of the Swiss bank’s global
equities business. Adoboli was fired by the bank on Sept. 17,
Williams said.  ETFs are exchange-listed products that mirror indexes,
commodities, bonds and currencies and allow investors to buy and
sell them like stocks.  Adoboli, who holds a Ghanaian passport, appeared before a
panel of three judges yesterday and his lawyer Patrick Gibbs
said he wouldn’t indicate how his client planned to plead. He
said through his lawyer at a hearing last month he was “sorry
beyond words” for his “disastrous miscalculations.”  The bank said earlier this month that it expects a
“modest” third-quarter profit as gains from wider credit
spreads and the sale of bonds helped cushion the $2.3 billion
loss. UBS had said last month it may be unprofitable after
discovering the unauthorized trades. The bank is due to report
third-quarter earnings on Oct. 25.  For more, click here.  Ex-Louis Berger Group President Charged With False Claims  The former president and chief executive officer of Louis
Berger Group Inc., a  New Jersey  engineering consulting firm, was
charged with overbilling the U.S. government on overseas
reconstruction projects.  Derish Wolff, 76, was accused of conspiring to defraud the
U.S. Agency for International Development by inflating overhead
and other indirect costs over almost two decades on hundreds of
millions of dollars in contracts in Iraq and  Afghanistan . He
surrendered yesterday to the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  in
Newark, New Jersey.  “During decades at the helm of a company entrusted with
the rebuilding of battle-scarred nations Derish Wolff focused on
profits over progress,” U.S. Attorney Paul Fishman said in a
statement. “Wolff allegedly used his position to lead others in
the scheme, setting targets that could be reached only through
fraud.”  The indictment follows an agreement by the company last
November to pay $69.3 million to resolve criminal and civil
probes related to overbilling for reconstruction contracts in
Iraq and Afghanistan and other work. Two former executives also
pleaded guilty at that time in federal court in Newark.  Wolff was charged with conspiring with Salvatore Pepe, the
former chief financial officer, and Precy Pellettieri, the
former controller, who admitted to conspiring to defraud USAID.
The Wolff indictment, unsealed yesterday, doesn’t specify a
specific amount of loss by the government.  Wolff, a resident of Miami and Bernardsville, New Jersey,
appeared in federal court in Newark, where he was released on $1
million bail. He faces as long as 10 years in prison on the
conspiracy charge and five years on each of five counts of
filing false claims.  “Mr. Wolff intends to plead not guilty because he is not
guilty, and he looks forward to establishing it in court,” his
attorney, Herbert Stern, said in a phone interview.  The case is U.S. v. Wolff, U.S. District Court, District of
New Jersey (Newark).  Ex-Le-Nature’s Chief Executive Officer Sentenced to 20 Years  Former Le-Nature’s Inc. Chief Executive Officer Gregory J.
Podlucky was sentenced to 20 years in prison for fraud,  tax
evasion  and money-laundering related to the 2006 collapse of the
bottled-water company.  Podlucky was the mastermind behind a scheme that cost
lenders, shareholders and others, $684.5 million, Assistant U.S.
Attorney James Y. Garrett said in court papers filed yesterday.
Podlucky was sentenced yesterday in U.S. District Court in
Pittsburgh to the maximum allowed under a plea agreement,
Garrett said in an interview.  “Whether or not defendant’s conduct should be deplored as
evil, the ingenuity, industry and magnitude of his extraordinary
crimes are plain to see,” Garrett said in court papers.  Podlucky’s brother Jonathan and at least three other Le-
Nature’s employees also pleaded guilty to charges related to the
fraud, according to court papers.  Alexander H. Lindsay Jr., Podlucky’s attorney, didn’t
immediately return a call for comment on the sentence.  Some of the money was used to buy gems, watches and toy
trains, which investigators found in a secret room at the
company’s Latrobe,  Pennsylvania , bottling plant, according to
court records.  Le-Nature’s filed for bankruptcy in 2006 and was
liquidated.  The case is U.S. v. Podlucky, 2:09-cr-00279, U.S. District
Court, Western District of Pennsylvania (Pittsburgh).  New York  Man Admits to Running $6 Million Boiler-Room Scheme  A New York man pleaded guilty to running a boiler-room
operation in  Brooklyn  that swindled customers out of more than
$6 million.  Alan Labiner, also known as Alan Labineri and David Alan
Labiner, entered his plea yesterday before U.S. District Judge
Brian M. Cogan in Brooklyn. He previously pleaded not guilty.  Labiner, 52, and Ahmed Awan, 38, controlled a supposed
public-relations firm that marketed fraudulent securities in
nonpublic companies over the phone, according to the indictment.
Two men who worked for them, Khurram Tanwir and Christopher
Posteraro, were also charged in the case. Tanwir, 34, pleaded
guilty in March. Awan and Posteraro, 42, are scheduled to change
their not-guilty pleas next week.  “The offering memoranda contained numerous misstatements
about the entities and their business,” Labiner told Cogan.  His lawyer, Michael Rosen, declined to comment after the
hearing.  The case is U.S. v. Labiner, 09-cv-807, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  Bats Merger With Chi-X Wins Provisional U.K. Antitrust Clearance  Bats Global Markets Inc.’s acquisition of Chi-X  Europe 
Ltd., the region’s biggest alternative trading system, was
provisionally cleared by U.K. antitrust regulators, who said
sufficient competition remains.  Customers of both exchanges will still have the power to
prevent the merged companies from raising trading fees by
threatening to take their business to competitors, the U.K.
Competition Commission said yesterday.  “The customers of both these exchanges are in a
particularly powerful position to combat any attempt by the
merged company to raise trading fees, reduce service quality or
otherwise exploit any loss of competition,” said Malcolm
Nicholson, chairman of the regulator’s inquiry group.  Chi-X Europe, founded in March 2007 and owned by banks and
brokers, has been in talks to be acquired by Bats, the operator
of the second-largest alternative trading system in Europe. The
merger was referred to the Competition Commission in June and
the regulator is due to issue a final report by Dec. 2. It was
the first alternative trading platform in Europe to compete with
traditional exchanges such as LSE and  Deutsche Boerse  by
offering lower fees and faster trading.  The trading platform is partly owned by Instinet LLC, a New
York-based unit of Nomura Holdings Inc., and by investment banks
and traders including  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , Getco LLC, Bank of
America Corp., Citigroup Inc. and Morgan Stanley. Bats is owned
by Bank of America, Citigroup, Getco, Credit Suisse and Morgan
Stanley, among others.  Deutsche Boerse Says It Requested Extension of EU Review  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  sought an extension of the European
Union’s review of its plan to combine with  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  in
order to better respond to regulators’ competition objections to
the deal.  Deutsche Boerse said it needed more time to analyze the
European Commission’s charge sheet, or statement of objections,
and prepare a response. The commission, the 27-nation EU’s
antitrust regulator, set a new deadline of Dec. 22 to complete
its review of the deal, according to its website today.  “Given the complex issues involved and our desire to
provide a full and comprehensive response to the commission, we
have asked for and received seven additional working days to
provide our submission,”  Frank Herkenhoff , a spokesman for
Deutsche Boerse, said in a phone interview today.  The request comes with Deutsche Boerse and NYSE Euronext
scheduled to give reasons why their deal should be completed at
an EU hearing on Oct. 27 and 28 in Brussels, according to two
people, who declined to be identified because the hearing is
private. The companies will address allegations listed in an EU
statement of objections this month that the merger would harm
competition for derivatives trading, clearing and index
licensing, three people familiar with the review said last week.  EU regulators are probing the merger, which would put more
than 90 percent of the region’s exchange-traded-derivatives
market and about 30 percent of European  stock trading  in the
hands of one organization. The regulator has cited concerns over
reduced innovation in derivatives products and technology.  Herkenhoff declined to comment on the hearing dates. Amelia
Torres, a spokeswoman for the commission, declined to comment on
the review process.  The European Commission can require companies to change
their behavior or to sell off units to eliminate possible
competition concerns.  BofA Said to Get Subpoena From California’s Attorney General  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  was given a subpoena by California’s
attorney general for information related to the packaging and
sale of mortgage-backed securities, a person familiar with the
matter said.  The subpoena, delivered Oct. 18, involves mortgage
securitization by the Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank and
its Countrywide Financial unit, said the person, who wasn’t
authorized to speak and didn’t want to be identified  The subpoena follows a decision by California Attorney
General Kamala Harris to withdraw from talks among state
officials, the U.S.  Justice Department  and the five largest
mortgage servicers.  The  attorneys general  of all 50 states last year announced
they were investigating the foreclosure practices of banks
following disclosures that faulty documents were being used to
seize homes. A group of attorneys general and federal officials
are negotiating a settlement with the lenders, which also
include JPMorgan Chase & Co.,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) 
and Ally Financial Inc.  Several attorneys general are conducting their own
investigations of bank mortgage practices and have raised
concerns about the scope of the releases that would be included
in any agreement.  Shum Preston, a spokesman for Harris, declined to comment
yesterday on the subpoena. Lawrence Grayson, a Bank of America
spokesman, also declined to comment on it. News about the
subpoena was first reported in the Los Angeles Times.  Compliance Policy  U.S. Should Ease Compliance Rules to Boost IPOs, Task Force Says  U.S. regulators should ease disclosure requirements for
smaller companies attempting initial public offerings to reduce
the cost of going public and encourage more IPOs, an independent
task force said.  Allowing companies with annual revenue of less than $1
billion to reach compliance gradually could reduce their costs
by as much as half, said the group, which has briefed the U.S.
Treasury Department, Securities and Exchange Commission, and
Congress.  The group, which includes venture capitalists,
entrepreneurs, attorneys, investors and investment bankers, is
proposing regulatory changes it says will decrease company costs
and encourage more transparency. The number of IPOs raising less
than $50 million has decreased dramatically since 1999 because
the costs of compliance discourage small companies from going
public and a lack of equity research discourages buyers, said
Kate Mitchell, the task force’s chairman.  “Emerging growth companies have really been squeezed out
of the IPO market,” Mitchell, a managing director at Foster
City, California-based Scale Venture Partners, said Oct. 19 on a
conference call with reporters. “CEOs hesitate to invest this
kind of money in the face of uncertain success.”  The average cost of going public for a company is $2.5
million, with an additional annual cost of $1.5 million to meet
compliance requirements for staying public, Mitchell said.  Members of the task force include Paul Deninger, senior
managing director at  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR) ; Karey Barker, a
managing director at Wasatch Advisors Inc.; and Magid Abraham,
chief executive officer of  ComScore Inc. (SCOR)   EU Weighs Credit-Ratings Bans for Nations Getting Bailouts  The European Union may ban credit-ratings companies from
making assessments of nations receiving European or
international bailouts as part of plans for tougher regulation
of the industry.  “We are actively considering suspending or banning
ratings” in cases where nations are making “full efforts” to
implement assistance programs,  Michel Barnier , the EU’s
financial services commissioner, told reporters in Brussels
yesterday. The measure may be included in a draft law that
Barnier will present in November.  The EU may also force the companies to disclose the
internal analyses they use when they decide to cut a
government’s rating, according to Barnier, who said that he
wanted to ensure “there is a clear method” behind such
downgrades.  EU governments have criticized decisions by ratings
companies to downgrade Greek, Irish and Portuguese sovereign
debt even though the countries are receiving international
assistance, saying that the decisions are unjustified and
exacerbate the region’s fiscal crisis.  The European Commission said that a four-level cut of
 Portugal ’s credit rating in July by Moody’s Investors Service
added “an additional element of uncertainty” to the country’s
situation.  “Based on news reports” the commission’s planned measures
“appear to include allowing regulators to interfere with
credit-rating agencies’ views and even forbidding CRAs to
publish sovereign ratings,” Daniel Piels, a spokesman for
Moody’s said in a phone interview.  “Proposals such as these will undermine investors’
confidence in European credits, disrupt access to capital
markets for sovereign and corporate issuers and increase
volatility in the European credit market,” Piels said.  Barnier said yesterday the plans “are not final” and that
a decision still has to be taken on them by the commission. They
would then need to be approved by national governments in the EU
and the European Parliament before they can take effect.  Barnier said last week the measures are likely to include
ways to increase diversity in the ratings market without
creating a new European ratings company.  EU Targets Commodities, High-Frequency Trading in Market Law  The European Union is seeking limits on commodities
derivatives and curbs on high-frequency trading as part of
proposals to overhaul the region’s financial-market rules.  The plans, announced yesterday, are aimed at reducing
market volatility, increasing regulatory oversight and promoting
competition. Specific measures include requiring trading venues
to either cap the number of commodity-derivative contracts that
traders can enter into, or enforce “alternative arrangements”
with the same effect. The plans also include a crackdown on so-
called dark pools.  “The crisis serves as a grim reminder of how complex and
opaque some financial activities and products have become,”
Michel Barnier, the European commissioner responsible for the
proposals,  said  in an e-mailed statement from Brussels
yesterday. The plans “will help lead to better, safer and more
open financial markets.”  French President Nicolas Sarkozy has demanded steps to curb
commodity derivatives speculation, which he blames for driving
up world food prices. He has made the issue a priority of
 France ’s presidency this year of the Group of 20 nations. The
 Institute of International Finance , an association representing
global lenders, said last month that there was “little
convincing evidence linking financial investment with trends in
commodity prices and volatility.”  For more, click here.  Health Rules Prod U.S. Hospitals to Form Networks for Care  Hospital chains such as  Community Health Systems Inc. (CYH)  may
get as much as $1.9 billion in bonuses by forming joint ventures
to improve care and cut medical costs under regulations released
by the Obama administration.  The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services issued
final rules yesterday for so-called accountable care
organizations for the elderly and disabled, a centerpiece of the
health-care law designed to save as much as $940 million in
three years. Savings would be shared between providers and the
government.  Participants can keep more savings after reaching targets,
and will need to meet about half as many quality measures as
first outlined in March. The delayed  rule  marks a victory for
hospitals, clinics and large doctors’ practices that have
lobbied to alter draft regulations they viewed as too burdensome
and financially risky.  “We heard loud and clear that the proposed rules didn’t
create a strong business case, and we felt those comments were
credible,” said Jonathan Blum, director of Medicare. “We’ve
worked hard to adjust the financial model.”  The government projected as many as 270 organizations would
participate in the program aiming to coordinate care for large
groups of Medicare patients. The government said in its
regulatory filing that it “made significant modifications to
reduce burden and cost” for participants, including increased
potential bonuses and letting hospitals and doctors participate
without risk of financial loss.  “The new rule is an easier pill to swallow, but still
difficult for most systems to fully digest,” said  Dan
Mendelson , chief executive officer of Avalere Health LLC. “ACOs
will get to keep more of the upside profits from effective cost
control -- including savings from reduced re-hospitalizations --
and there are fewer quality metrics and many of the industry’s
legal concerns appear to have been addressed.”  Taxpayers may lose money on the program. The government
said in its regulatory filing that in “extreme scenarios,” the
effort could cost Medicare as much as $1.1 billion in its first
three years, or yield as much as $2 billion in savings.  Physician-owned groups and rural providers will also be
able to get $3.5 million in financial support to make upfront
investments in information technology and staff. The payments
would be recovered from any future savings the organization
achieves.  Separately, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission and the
Justice Department completed an agreement to share
responsibility for antitrust reviews of proposals to form
networks under the health-care overhaul law enacted last year,
the agencies said yesterday in a statement.  For more, click here.  U.S. FERC Approves Rule to Benefit Energy-Storage Providers  The U.S. Federal Energy Regulatory Commission unanimously
approved a rule that may increase payments from electric-grid
operators to companies that help keep energy supply and demand
in balance on the grid.  Among companies that may benefit are developers of battery
storage for the grid and  Beacon Power Corp. (BCON) , a Tyngsboro,
Massachusetts-based maker of flywheels that store energy. Beacon
received a $43 million federal loan guarantee in August 2010.  “This is a very important rule” to increase grid
efficiency, FERC Chairman Jon Wellinghoff said at yesterday’s
meeting.  FERC took action to remedy what the commission saw as
practices that may not adequately benefit technologies designed
to quickly adjust electricity imbalances on the grid.  The rule will allow grid operators to pay companies a
market-based rate in addition to a fixed payment for helping to
balance electricity flows. The rule will take effect 60 days
after publication in the Federal Register.  Beacon’s backing came from a U.S. Energy Department clean-
energy program that also supported Solyndra LLC, a failed solar-
panel manufacturing company that had received a $535 million
loan guarantee.  Speeches and Interviews  SEC to Weigh Hedge Fund Rule for Gathering Systemic Risk Data  Hedge funds and private-equity funds will be asked to
deliver “extraordinary amounts” of new data to the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission under a rule set for a vote
next week, said SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro .  Under the version of the rule proposed by the SEC on Jan.
26, firms managing more than $1 billion would have to file
quarterly information on fund assets, leverage, investment
positions, valuation and trading practices on a new Form PF.
That added oversight would also come with routine inspections.  “We have high hopes for the Form PF data,” Schapiro said
yesterday at a Managed Funds Association meeting in New York.
The form was a requirement in last year’s Dodd-Frank Act, and
Schapiro said the information will help her agency and the
Financial Stability Oversight Council “understand where the
risks are in the financial system.”  The January proposal described how the regulators will use
the new data to assess whether a firm threatens to destabilize
the financial system, as in the 1998 collapse of Long Term
Capital Management LP. The SEC is set to vote on the final
version of the Form PF rule Oct. 26.  Separately, Dodd-Frank requires the SEC to set up
registration rules for private fund advisers. The registration,
adopted in June, requires the reporting of “census-like data”
on employees, investors and assets they manage. Unlike the
registration data, the Form PF information wouldn’t be public.  Schapiro also said that the SEC wouldn’t consider short-
selling bans such as those being weighed in Europe. So-called
naked short selling, in which traders bet on an investment’s
decline but don’t borrow shares as in regular shorting, was
temporarily limited by the SEC in the 2008 credit crisis.  “I can’t envision the SEC doing another short-selling
ban,” she said.  Schapiro also cautioned hedge funds to make sure they have
“robust compliance policies” in light of recent insider-
trading cases involving funds’ dealings with expert networks.  She said there is a “pretty bright line” between
legitimate research and insider information and crossing it
“absolutely undermines confidence in the integrity of our
marketplace.”  Lawsky Juggles Conflicting Roles as Financial Cop in N.Y.  Ben Lawsky, the first person to head New York’s newly
established Financial Services Department, said he’ll be
juggling conflicting roles of enforcer and promoter as he
oversees the state’s banks and insurance companies.  “Being a better consumer-protection agency and fraud
detector, while keeping New York the financial center of the
world, aren’t necessarily contradictory,” Lawsky, 41, said
during an interview in his office in lower  Manhattan . “But
doing this well requires a delicate balance that’s hard to
achieve.”  New York Governor Andrew Cuomo initially proposed investing
Lawsky’s department with powers comparable to those of the state
attorney general. The idea got scaled back, though the
legislature did give Lawsky oversight of new financial products
that fall outside the jurisdiction of existing regulations. That
was designed to counter what Lawsky called Wall Street’s history
of devising products that circumvent regulation.  “This is designed for the future,” Lawsky said. “We will
have oversight of products intentionally designed to be neither
fish nor fowl, where they’re not a commodity, not a security and
not insurance -- products designed to fall into regulatory
gaps.”  Lawsky, who will monitor about 4,400 financial companies
managing more than $6.2 trillion in assets, is “a prosecutor at
heart” who will take an aggressive approach, said Neil
Barofsky, the former special inspector general for the Troubled
Assets Relief Program and an ex-colleague.  A former assistant U.S. attorney, Lawsky also spent four
years as the top financial crimes prosecutor for then-New York
Attorney General Cuomo, and was in the thick of Cuomo’s effort
to force banks that received taxpayer bailouts to disclose
sensitive information about bonus payments.  Lawsky led the probe into $3.6 billion in bonuses Merrill
Lynch & Co. gave executives as Bank of America Corp. acquired
the company. As Cuomo’s special assistant, he was the prime
mover behind the ongoing lawsuit filed in early 2010 accusing
former Bank of America Chief Executive Officer Ken Lewis of
misleading shareholders and government officials about Merrill’s
financial condition.  “I am aware of the difference between regulation and
prosecution because I’ve been a prosecutor,” said Lawsky, a
graduate of  Columbia University  and its law school. “Part of
this job is not to cause banks that are doing honest business to
suffer because of damage done by a few.”  Several former chiefs of New York’s insurance and banking
departments said they believe Lawsky will strike the right
balance. Lawsky “has a holistic view of government that’s not
just enforcement-oriented,” said  Eric Dinallo , an attorney at
Debevoise & Plimpton LLP, a former state prosecutor who was New
York’s chief insurance regulator.  For more, click here.  Treasury’s Wolin Says Card-Fee Caps Don’t Hurt U.S. Economy  U.S. Deputy Treasury Secretary Neal Wolin said caps on
debit-card “swipe” fees mandated by the Dodd-Frank financial
overhaul law don’t hurt the economy.  “There is no evidence” the rules have “any real effect
on the macroeconomy,” Wolin said in an interview with CNBC
yesterday. “It is one provision among many.”  The  Federal Reserve  imposed rules Oct. 1 limiting the fees
card networks charge merchants to 21 cents per transaction,
about half what retailers had been paying. In response, lenders
including Bank of America Corp. and Wells Fargo & Co. have been
rolling out new charges for debit customers to make up some of
the $8 billion the largest banks may lose under the rules.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 