-- 
Murdoch’s Clout in U.K. Curbed by Hacking Scandal, Brown Says

-- B y   K e n   F i r e m a n
-- 
2011-10-21T04:01:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/murdoch-s-clout-in-u-k-curbed-by-hacking-scandal-brown-says.html
The furor over phone-hacking by
 Rupert Murdoch ’s U.K. publishing unit has produced “a new
political framework” in which no single person will wield the
influence that Murdoch once had, former Prime Minister  Gordon Brown  said.  The scandal that mushroomed in July with revelations of
hacking into the voice mail of a murdered schoolgirl by the News
of the World tabloid has now prompted “the most serious
investigation” into civil liberties violations in years, Brown
said. The original allegations are “only the tip of the
iceberg,” and the police probe may find evidence that computers
as well as phones were hacked, he said.  “You’ve got a new political framework,” Brown, 60, said
in an interview at the Bloomberg News Washington bureau. “I
don’t think one family can exercise so much political power ever
again.”  Brown also said the move by the Murdoch-owned Sun newspaper
to support the Conservatives over Brown’s  Labour Party  in the
2010 general election was “a commercial decision by Murdoch
that was based on an arrangement” with Conservative leaders.  Under that arrangement, Brown said, the Conservatives
agreed to pursue policies once in office that would be favorable
to Murdoch’s interests. These included moves to ease the
regulation of commercial broadcasters and “neuter” the
government-owned British Broadcasting Corp. by restricting its
ability to disseminate news on the Internet, Brown said.  ‘Decisive Actions’  Calls to News Corp. spokeswomen  Teri Everett  and  Julie Henderson  requesting comment on Brown’s statements weren’t
immediately returned.  In a statement issued earlier this month to shareholders in
support of its candidates for the board of directors,  News Corp .
said it “has already taken decisive actions to hold people
accountable” for the hacking “and will take all prudent steps
designed to prevent something like this from ever occurring
again.”  The scandal expanded in July after the rival  Guardian
newspaper  reported that the Murdoch-owned News of the World had
hacked into the voice mail of murder victim Milly Dowler in
2002. A subsequent police investigation has led to at least 16
arrests, among them  Andy Coulson , a former News of the World
editor and communications chief for Prime Minister  David Cameron , who succeeded Brown.  The furor over the hacking led Murdoch’s parent New York-
based News Corp. to close the News of the World and drop a bid
to acquire full ownership of British Sky Broadcasting Group PLC,
in which it holds a 39 percent stake.  Parliamentary Committee  Murdoch, 80, News Corp.’s chairman and chief executive
officer, and his son,  James Murdoch , 38, the deputy chief
operating officer, testified before a parliamentary committee in
July. James is being recalled later this month to answer further
questions after his original testimony that he didn’t know of
widespread hacking at News of the World was challenged by former
executives at the newspaper.  Brown became prime minister in 2007 after serving for 10
years as chancellor of the exchequer under then-Prime Minister
 Tony Blair . He was ousted from power in the 2010 election.  The Sun, the U.K.’s biggest-selling daily newspaper,
supported Blair and the Labour Party in three successive
elections. When it switched to the Conservatives in 2009, it
said it was doing so because of the Labour government’s record
of “under-achievement, rank failure and a vast expansion of
wasteful government interference into everyone’s lives.”  Murdoch’s Endorsement  Brown said Murdoch’s endorsement of the Conservatives had
“tipped the balance” and created a situation in which “90
percent of the press” was hostile to his government. That made
governing “very, very difficult,” he said.  “Everything is wholly personalized,” he said. “People
don’t say, ‘X made a mistake in judgment.’ They say that the
motive of X was always corrupt.”  Yesterday wasn’t the first time that Brown has attacked
Murdoch’s U.K. publishing unit, News International, over the
hacking scandal. In a speech in the House of Commons on July 14,
he described it as having engaged in “law-breaking often on an
industrial scale.”  Cameron said on July 8 that politicians of all parties had
been guilty of failing to press for a full investigation of
hacking allegations when they first surfaced, in part because of
a desire to win the support of the newspapers implicated.  “The truth is, to coin a phrase, we have all been in this
together: the press, the politicians of all parties - yes,
including me,” he said during a news conference in  London . “We
have not gripped this.”  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information. 