-- 
Murdoch Spars With Shareholders Ahead of Report on Vote

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 
2011-10-21T20:27:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/murdoch-spars-with-news-corp-shareholders-ahead-of-vote-tally-on-board.html
     Oct. 21 (Bloomberg) -- Rupert Murdoch , chairman and chief
executive officer of News Corp., jousted with shareholders at
the annual meeting, parrying charges of lax oversight and
employing wit as he sought to disarm critics.  “I hate to call you a liar but I don’t believe you,”
Murdoch said to Australian investor Stephen Mayne, who told
assembled shareholders in Los Angeles today he was undecided how
to vote and was seeking a debate over governance proposals and
board nominations. “I know how you’re going to vote,” Murdoch
said, drawing chuckles from the crowd.  Murdoch, 80, ended the meeting without reporting the
results of a board election and a shareholder bid to split the
CEO and chairman’s roles. The company will provide the tallies
today. Investors including Calpers, the largest U.S. pension
fund, called on Murdoch and his sons James and Lachlan to leave
the board to bolster oversight after a phone-hacking scandal.  News Corp. (NWSA)  Class A shares, those most widely held, rose 2.1
percent to $17.20 at the close in  New York . The shares, which
represent about 70 percent of the economic interest, have no
 voting rights . The company has repurchased $1.71 billion worth
since announcing a buyback in July.  Murdoch displayed his wit when he interrupted  Edward Mason ,
secretary of the Ethical Investment Advisory Group at the Church
of  England ’s fund, who spoke in favor of a proposal to separate
the roles of chairman and CEO.  “Your investments haven’t been that great, but go ahead,’
Murdoch said.  ‘‘I’m sorry Mr. Chairman?,” Mason asked. “It’s OK,”
Murdoch replied. “I’ll let it pass.”  Watson Allegations  British lawmaker  Tom Watson , who has led Parliament’s
inquiry into phone hacking, drew attention to police
investigations of computer hacking and the activities of a
private investigator, Jonathan Rees.  In response to Watson’s questions, Murdoch said he wasn’t
aware of computer hacking in the U.K.  “These rumors you speak of are being addressed,” Murdoch
said. “We will put this right.”  The elder Murdoch went into the meeting with at least 47
percent of the voting shares on his side, including Saudi Prince
Alwaleed Bin Talal, who has voiced support.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
 News Corp. (NWS)  units in providing financial news and information,
and is a business partner of Alwaleed.  Shareholder Proposal  Christian Brothers Investment Services Inc. introduced the
resolution to separate the chairman and CEO roles held by
Murdoch, who has run the New York-based media company for more
than five decades, citing the U.K. phone hacking scandal.  “The pervasive and value-destroying scandal at our company
requires stronger, independent leadership on the board and a
more thorough response from the entire board,”  Julie Tanner ,
director of socially responsible investing for New York-based
Christian Brothers, said at the meeting, reading from prepared
remarks.  The  California Public Employees’ Retirement System , the
California State Teachers’ Retirement System and Institutional
Shareholder Services all took stances aimed at loosening
Murdoch’s control.  The furor over the hacking led New York-based News Corp. to
close the News of the World and drop a bid to acquire full
ownership of  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) , in which it
holds a 39 percent stake. The company also owns the Wall Street
Journal, the Fox television network and the Twentieth Century
Fox movie studio.  Police Arrests  Police have arrested at least 16 people, including  Andy
Coulson , Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s former communications
chief and an ex-News of the World editor.  The events have raised questions about News Corp.’s
management and the board’s independence. The company formed a
management and standards committee to aid outside inquiries.  The company also said it is investigating other U.K.
publications. The testimony of  James Murdoch , who once led the
News International unit, concerning when he learned of the
hacking was contradicted by former employees, and he has been
asked to testify again in Parliament.  Investor Mayne, a former News Corp. employee, sparred
numerous times with Murdoch, as he has previously.  “I did eight years working for you, Rupert,” Mayne said.
“I did self-censor a bit and talk up your interests and never
criticized you when I worked for you. That was the culture of
the newspapers.”  “You’ve made up for it since,” Murdoch quipped.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  