-- 
Turkey Holds Talks With Iran Amid Assault Against PKK in Iraq

-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 
2011-10-21T07:11:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/turkey-holds-talks-with-iran-amid-assault-against-pkk-in-iraq.html
Turkish Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu  will meet his Iranian counterpart to discuss the
region after Turkey sent troops into northern Iraq to fight the
Kurdistan Workers’ Party, or PKK.  Ali Akbar Salehi  will be in Turkey today, the Turkish
Foreign Ministry in Ankara said in an e-mailed statement. Prime
Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  vowed yesterday to destroy the
PKK, classed by Turkey, the U.S. and the European Union as a
terrorist organization, after a series of attacks in
southeastern Turkey killed 30 soldiers and policemen.  The meeting comes as Erdogan calls on the international
community to aid Turkish efforts in combating terrorism, gaining
support from President  Barack Obama , the EU and Iraqi Kurdistan.
While Iran condemned the PKK’s attacks, it has said Turkey’s
decision to host a radar as part of a North Atlantic Treaty
Organization missile shield creates tensions and will lead to
complications.  “We are currently cooperating with  Iran  to counter the
terrorist organization’s activities,” Deputy Prime Minister
Bulent Arinc told reporters last week. “Our friendship ties are
good and we get the support we need from Iran.”  Iraq and Iran last week said they set up a joint “security
committee” to fight PKK affiliate Party for a Free Life in
Kurdistan, or PJAK, which is active in Iran.  Nechirvan Barzani, deputy chairman of Iraqi Kurdistan
President Massoud Barzani’s party, said yesterday after meeting
Davutoglu that the regional government will expand cooperation
with Turkey.  The pledge of support contrasts with the authorities in
Baghdad. After the PKK’s most recent assault, Labeed Abbawi,
Iraq’s deputy foreign minister, said his government opposes
“the shelling and the direct interference” by  Turkey .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  