-- 
Turkey Bank Shares Cut to ‘Equal-Weight’ at Morgan Stanley

-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 
2011-10-21T14:59:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/turkey-banks-cut-to-equal-weight-at-morgan-stanley-on-earnings.html
Turkish banks were cut to “equal-
weight” from “overweight” in the regional banking portfolio
at Morgan Stanley, which cited a deteriorating earnings outlook,
higher risk and rising inflation.  “We are now more neutral towards Turkish banks, without
being extreme bears,” Morgan Stanley analysts Magdalena Stoklosa and Samuel Goodacre wrote in the report e-mailed today.
“We think the transition to a full normalization in the
maturing system, now operating in a lower interest rate
scenario, will not be smooth.”  Bank earnings may contract 5 percent to 30 percent in 2011
and remain flat in 2012, according to the Morgan Stanley report.
Return-on-equity is expected to decline next year.  “With 2012 return on equity profiles at the Turkish banks
now down to 11 percent to 16 percent, we see better value in
 Russia  for growth and  South Africa  for its defensive
qualities,” the analysts wrote.  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN) ,  Turkey ’s largest bank by market
value and part-owned by  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) , was
downgraded to “equal-weight” from “overweight,” with the
analysts citing “limited upside” and falling earnings.  Among Turkish banks, only Yapi & Kredi Bankasi AS, a joint
venture between  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and Koc Holding AS, was maintained
at “overweight.” The bank is “the most mispriced Turkish
bank,” with an underestimated “return profile” that’s less
volatile than peers, the report said.  Garanti rose 2.6 percent to 6.44 liras at the 5:30 p.m.
close in Istanbul, paring its loss this week to 7.2 percent.
Yapi Kredi was unchanged at 3.65 liras.  Turkiye Halk Bankasi AS (HALKB) ,
which dropped 7 percent yesterday, gained 3.5 percent to 11.75
liras.  The overall index of banking shares gained 2.1 percent,
paring its weekly loss to 7.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 Bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  