-- 
Turkish Swaps Rise Seventh Day on ‘Rate Hike in Disguise’

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-10-21T14:04:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/turkish-swaps-rise-seventh-day-on-rate-hike-in-disguise-.html
The cost to exchange lira payments
for dollar payments in the next two years rose to an 11-week
high after  Turkey ’s central bank raised its overnight lending
rate yesterday.  Turkey’s two-year cross currency swaps rose for a seventh
day, the longest streak of gains since October 2009, adding 27
basis points, or 0.27 percentage point, to 7.59 percent by 4:29
p.m. in Istanbul.  The central bank yesterday left its benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged at 5.75 percent and increased the overnight rate to
12.5 percent from 9 percent and dropped wording from earlier
statements that it may need to ease monetary policy. The swaps
rose the most yesterday since at least 2005 when Bloomberg
started tracking the data, after the announcement.  “Liquidity in the  derivatives market  is drying up,” Ozhan
Antero Atilla, an emerging-market strategist at Danske Bank A/S
in Copenhagen, said in an e-mailed response to questions.
“Although a more hawkish tone was expected, a ‘rate hike in
disguise’ did indeed surprise the markets with a lot of people
simply taking off their offers.”  Governor Erdem Basci cut the benchmark rate by half a point
on Aug. 4, concerned that the European debt crisis will
undermine economic growth. The lira has fallen 7.7 percent
against the dollar since then, adding to a surge in inflation
from tax increases. The bank spent more than $1 billion on Oct.
19 trying to arrest the currency’s fall.  The bank’s rate decision introduces “some tightening
bias,” Basci said at a panel in Warsaw.  Two-year bonds fell for a third day, with yields rising 33
basis points, or 0.33 percentage point, to 9.47 percent, the
highest intraday level since May 2010, a Turk Ekonomi Bankasi
index of the securities showed.  The central bank’s policy added “risk premium in the face
of external deterioration and simply soured the appetite for
lira-denominated assets,” Atilla said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  