-- 
Turkish Yields Rise Third Day on Tighter Liquidity, Rate Bets

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-10-21T15:44:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/turkish-bond-yields-rise-most-in-5-years-on-lira-concern-rate-increase.html
Turkish bond yields rose for a third
day, after the central bank boosted overnight lending rates
yesterday to stem lira declines and tackle inflation, prompting
speculation there may be a rate increase.  Yields climbed 29 basis points, or 0.29 percentage point,
to 9.43 percent at the 5 p.m. in Istanbul, closing at the
highest level since May 2010. The lira strengthened for a second
day after the central bank raised the overnight lending rate to
12.5 percent from 9 percent on Oct. 20, appreciating 1.2 percent
to 1.8363 per dollar.  The lira has slumped 16 percent this year, making it the
second-worst performing emerging currency tracked by Bloomberg
as  Turkey ’s current-account deficit, inflation concerns and
European debt worries dented investor confidence. To stem the
lira’s slide, the central bank has sold more than $8 billion in
daily auctions since Aug. 5, reducing its reserves to $85.9
billion as of Oct. 14. It sold $350 million today.  “It has been a true bloodbath in the rates market,” said
 Benoit Anne , head of emerging-market strategy at Societe
Generale SA in  London . “People are now aggressively betting on
the central bank not being able to sustain its foreign exchange
intervention,” and that it will eventually be forced to
increase the benchmark  interest rate , he said.  Governor Erdem Basci is battling to end the slump in the
lira after cutting the benchmark rate by half a point to 5.75
percent on Aug. 4, concerned that the European debt crisis will
undermine economic growth. The lira has fallen 5.2 percent
against the dollar since, adding to a surge in prices from the
government’s tax increases on cigarettes, alcoholic drinks,
motor vehicles and mobile phones.  ‘Tightening Bias’  The central bank’s decision yesterday to raise the
overnight lending rate introduces “some tightening bias,”
Basci said at a panel in Warsaw today.  The current account deficit has widened to about 10 percent
of economic output as imports outpaced exports amid an economic
boom. The central bank predicts that the deficit has peaked and
will decline next year. The economy expanded an annual 8.8
percent in the second quarter.  Two-year cross-currency swaps, the cost to exchange lira
payments for dollar payments in the next two years, climbed for
a seventh day in its longest rising streak in three years to the
highest level since Aug. 1. After the central bank raised
overnight lending rates yesterday, the swaps showed the biggest
daily gain since at least 2005, when Bloomberg started tracking
the data.  “The central bank cut interest rates too early under
pressure from the government and created unnecessary volatility
in the lira and bonds,” Bulent Topbas, a  fund manager  at
Strateji Menkul Degerler AS, said in e-mailed comments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 mbentley3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  