-- 
USEC in Energy Department Deal for Uranium-Enrichment Project

-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 
2011-10-21T22:15:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/usec-in-energy-department-deal-for-uranium-enrichment-project.html
USEC Inc. (USU)  and the U.S. Energy
Department agreed to keep alive a troubled uranium enrichment
project in  Ohio  while the company’s application for a $2 billion
federal loan guarantee is put on hold.  The Energy Department and USEC of Bethesda, Maryland, will
together work on a research and development demonstration
program that will keep the project “on a path to
commercialization,” USEC spokesman Paul Jacobson said today in
a phone interview.  The deal will help USEC develop as many as 720 centrifuges,
 Damien LaVera , an Energy Department spokesman, said in an e-
mail. Congress will be required to authorize the use of Energy
Department funds, he said. U.S. spending would be limited to
$300 million, USEC said in a statement. No schedule has been set
for the project, Jacobson said.  USEC, which supplies enriched uranium fuel for nuclear
power plants, rose as much as 13 percent after the close of
regular trading in  New York , and were up 7.5 percent to $2.01 at
6 p.m. The shares are down 69 percent this year.  Republicans, led by House Speaker  John Boehner , and Ohio
Democrats are pressing the department to approve the loan
guarantee for the centrifuge project in Piketon, about 90 miles
(145 kilometers) east of Cincinnati. The agency hasn’t made a
final decision, LaVera said.  USEC applied for a loan guarantee in July 2008. The agency
in May 2010 granted Paris-based Areva SA a conditional
commitment for a $2 billion guarantee for a competing enrichment
project.  Republican Scrutiny  Congressional Republicans are investigating federal
financing after Solyndra LLC, a solar-panel manufacturer that
won a $535 million guarantee in 2009, filed for bankruptcy Sept.
6.  USEC said in a Sept. 30 statement that layoffs are likely
without a conditional commitment for a guarantee to support its
American Centrifuge Plant before Nov. 1. Its “too early to
say” whether the deal will prevent cuts in jobs, Jacobson said.  “This is the most significant step yet in realizing the
thousands of jobs that would be created” by the centrifuge
project, Senator  Sherrod Brown , an Ohio Democrat, said in a
statement today.  Boehner declined to comment, his spokesman  Michael Steel 
said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  