-- 
Vodacom Battles Lawsuits to Block Sale of Congo Mobile Stake

-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 
2011-10-21T12:23:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/vodacom-battles-two-lawsuits-seeking-to-block-sale-of-congo-mobile-stake.html
Vodacom Group Ltd. (VOD) ’s efforts to sell
its controlling stake in a Democratic Republic of Congo mobile-
phone operator face separate challenges from its partner in the
venture and a former consultant.  Lawyers for  Congolese Wireless Network SPRL , which owns 49
percent of  Vodacom Congo SPRL , filed an application in a
Kinshasa court to stop the sale, Alieu Conteh, the chairman and
founder of CWN, said. Moto Mabanga, a former consultant to
Vodacom Group and director of Namemco Energy (Pty) Ltd., said he
will halt any deal until he is paid a fee by Vodacom.  “We’ll send a letter to all the main shareholders and
we’ll block the sale,” Conteh said in an interview in the
capital, Kinshasa on Oct. 19. Vodacom has received court papers
from CWN, Richard Boorman, a spokesman for Johannesburg-based
Vodacom, said today. He declined to comment on Mabanga’s
settlement claim as it is part of an ongoing court case.  MTN Group Ltd. (MTN) ,  Africa ’s largest mobile-phone company, is
seeking to buy Vodacom’s stake in the Congo venture, two people
familiar with the matter said on Oct. 17.  Angola ’s Unitel SA is
also among bidders, one of the people said. Unitel Deputy Chief
Executive Officer Amilcar Safeca declined to comment by phone
from Luanda, Angola on Oct. 18. Vodacom’s stock fell for a third
day, declining 0.3 percent to 87.26 rand as of 1:53 p.m. in
Johannesburg.  ‘Explore Options’  Vodacom, the largest provider of wireless services to  South
Africans , on Dec. 22 agreed with CWN to appoint London-based NM
Rothschild & Sons Ltd. to “explore options” for its Congo
unit, Boorman said. The process is still under way, he said. At
least four companies are bidding for the stake, Johannesburg-
based Business Day reported today, without saying where it got
the information.  Mabanga is seeking a $40.8 million “success fee” for work
he carried out for Vodacom during 2007 and 2008. A high court
judge in Kinshasa in April ordered Vodacom to place shares
amounting to the value of the claim in an escrow account pending
a final order, he said. Vodacom has appealed the judgment,
Boorman said.  CWN asked the Commercial Court in Kinshasa to block the
sale until a dispute between CWN’s shareholders has been
“exhausted” at the Court of Appeals in the city, according to
court filings provided by CWN’s Conteh. The Commercial Court
will consider the merits of the case next week, Conteh said. CWN
informed Vodacom it would use its right of first refusal if it
didn’t agree to terms of the sale, he said.  Leadership Challenge  Conteh faces a challenge to his leadership of CWN in the
Congolese courts from Feruzi Kalume Nyembwe, a director of
Keratsu Holding Ltd., which owns 19.6 percent of CWN, according
to court papers provided by Kalume Nyembwe.  “We want CWN to be managed by a specialist in
telecommunications,” Kalume Nyembwe said in an interview in
Kinshasa yesterday.  Conteh will be replaced as CWN’s manager by a provisional
administrator for three months, a period which can be extended,
according to a copy of an unsigned Court of Appeals ruling
handed to Bloomberg by Kalume Nyembwe. The draft decision was
read out by the court, Conteh and Kalume Nyembwe said.  The courts had “no right” to appoint a provisional
administrator, Conteh said on Oct. 19, saying the draft judgment
is  “illegal.” The decision must still be certified by the
court, Kalume Nyembwe said.  If Conteh is pushed aside, CWN could proceed with a
 shareholders’ meeting  to discuss the sale of Vodacom Congo,
should the interim administrator agree, Kalume Nyembwe said.
“We’re not opposed to a sale,” he said. “But we’re not going
to sell just to sell. You sell to make a profit.”  ‘Sell for a Profit’  Vodacom Congo had 4.2 million  subscribers  at the end of
March, according to Vodacom. It is the third-largest operator in
the country, which has 65 million people and a mobile
penetration rate of 17 percent, according to the U.S. Central
Intelligence Agency’s World Factbook.  Vodacom Congo “needs capital to expand and deliver on the
potential of the country,” Vodacom said in an e-mailed response
to questions. “Continued delays, groundless accusations, and
court action are utterly counterproductive and serve only to
damage the future prospects of the business.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  