-- 
Wall Street Protesters ‘Occupy’ MoMA, Slam Admission, Don Mask

-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f   a n d   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 
2011-10-21T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/wall-street-protesters-occupy-moma-slam-admission-don-mask.html
Five weeks after protesters
occupied a Lower Manhattan plaza to press for economic and
political change, they’ve turned their attention to what
they call “temples of cultural elitism,” New York’s
museums.  Members of an offshoot of Occupy  Wall Street  calling
itself Occupy Museums yesterday targeted the Museum of
 Modern Art  and the New Museum of Contemporary Art.  They took turns reading from a statement, with the
crowd repeating each line in a call-and-response system
used at their Wall Street base in Zuccotti Park and in many
protests.  “The Occupy Wall Street Movement will bring forth an
era of new art, true experimentation outside the narrow
parameters set by the market,” was the chant at one point,
voiced by a crowd comprising a few dozen artists, students
and passers-by outside MoMA.  Artist Dave Kearns complained about MoMA’s regular
admission fee, calling $25 “an obscene amount of money,”
and adding, “There should be more nights when it’s free.”  A person in a gorilla mask said he or she -- the
gender wasn’t clear from the voice -- worked in a New York
museum and didn’t care for its exclusionist curatorial
choices.  A 34-year-old artist named Blithe Riley proposed that
the group skip the  Frick Collection , which was to be temple
No. 2, and go directly to No. 3, the New Museum.  “Three museums might be a lot for one day,” she
said.  Show of Hands  With a show of hands, the group indicated a consensus
for her proposal.  “We’re going to occupy the New Museum now,” Riley
said.  A couple exiting MoMA looked perplexed.  “I don’t know what they mean, ‘Occupy the New
Museum?’” said Ruth Geisenheimer, 82, from  Chicago .  “What do they intend to do with this museum?” asked
her husband, Ed, 87.  Noah Fischer , a 34-year-old Brooklyn-based artist who
devised Occupy Museums, said the group makes no demands.  “We want to use the democratic process to bring
people together and learn what a society that is not about
money is like,” he said in an interview.  Outside the New Museum, Fischer called it a “pyramid
scheme of the 1 percent.”  “These artists are conflated with capital,” he said.  Picketing Sotheby’s  Earlier, dozens of Occupy Wall Street protesters
joined the picket line outside Sotheby’s, the Manhattan
auction house, where 42 unionized art handlers have been
locked out in a labor dispute since July 29.  “Walking around in a circle outside that building is
not an easy job,” said Jason Ide, the 30-year-old
president of  Teamsters Local 814 , which represents the
handlers and commercial movers. “When they show up, our
guys feel a real kick because they care.”  Ide, a former art handler who earned about $46,000 in
his last year at  Sotheby’s (BID) , said the auctioneer seeks to
cut the workweek from 38 3/4 hours to 36 1/4 hours, double
the number of nonunion temporary workers and cut
eligibility for overtime.  “They want to take things away from us,” said
William McAllister, a deputy foreman who has worked at
Sotheby’s for 38 years, and with as much as 30 hours of
weekly overtime earns about $120,000 annually.  “They want to keep bringing in temps until there are
no union guys at all,” he said. “They want to break the
union.”  Sotheby’s in an e-mail said it has offered union
employees “a very fair contract” that includes wage
increases and improved benefits each year.  Fischer said he intends Occupy Museums to be a weekly
protest. It may expand to auction houses such as Sotheby’s.  “Everyone is on notice,” he said.  To contact the reporters of this story:
Philip Boroff in  New York  at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net ;
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 