-- 
Iraq Withdrawal by U.S. Troops May Spark Power Struggle That Benefits Iran

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-10-23T14:56:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/will-american-troops-leave-iraq-better-off-.html
The end of the long American war in
 Iraq  will begin the test of what that effort has produced.  After almost nine years, $800 billion and almost 5,000 U.S.
dead, President Barack Obama announced last week that the 39,000
remaining troops will be home for the holidays, “heads held
high, proud of their success.”  They will leave behind a U.S. presence in the form of the
world’s largest embassy, without a large military force’s
protection, intelligence, supply chain and transportation.
Diplomats will encourage peace and development in a largely
Shiite Muslim Iraq that is divided by ethnic and religious
tensions and sits on the fault line between Persian Shiite  Iran 
and the Sunni Arab world.  “This has profound implications,” said Mohsen Milani,
chairman of the government and international relations
department at the  University of South Florida  in Tampa, in a
telephone interview. “It will intensify the competition for
power inside Iraq, leave the Iraqi Shiites more dependent on
Iran and the Sunnis on  Saudi Arabia  and leave the Kurds as
orphans who probably will continue to align themselves with the
Shiites.”  Gift to Iran  The U.S. pullout is “an unprecedented strategic gift to
the Islamic Republic of Iran,” said Milani.  Anthony Cordesman , an analyst at Washington’s  Center for
Strategic and International Studies , said Iraqi forces may not
be ready to provide security and violence will likely rise. U.S.
diplomats in Iraq face unprecedented demands. Iran, as a result,
stands to gain.  “The reality is that this is not success,” Cordesman said
in a telephone interview. “It certainly isn’t a drastic
failure, but we are now facing a major power vacuum in Iraq and
dealing with a power vacuum of this magnitude is a very serious
matter.”  Republican critics such as California Representative Buck McKeon said that leaving now will make it harder for the Iraqis
to stabilize their country.  U.S. troop levels in Iraq hit 90,000 in March 2003 with the
invasion and increased to 148,000 that year, according to U.S.
Central Command figures. The U.S. deployment peaked at 166,300
in October 2007, during the troop surge to curb the outbreak of
violence in largely Sunni Muslim Anbar Province. The level is
currently about 39,000, according to the Pentagon.  Iraq War Ended  “In Iraq, we’ve succeeded in our strategy to end the
war,” President  Barack Obama  said in his weekly radio and
Internet address.  The U.S. has “invested too little in the greatest source
of our national strength -- our own people,” Obama said. There
must be renewed focus on the economy, he said, urging Congress
to pass his $447 billion jobs proposal.  The administration proposed leaving a residual force of
3,000 troops in Iraq, if the Iraqi government were willing to
extend them immunity from prosecution.  Kenneth Pollack, a director of the  Brookings Institution ’s
Saban Center for Middle East Policy, said that number would have
been too small to accomplish anything.  ‘Ferocious’ Opposition  Iraqi hostility to the U.S. presence and “ferocious
Iranian opposition” to it were all factors in the decision to
pull all troops out, Pollack wrote in an analysis of the
president’s announcement.  Obama said that talks on training and equipping Iraqi
forces will continue, and his announcement doesn’t preclude the
possibility that some American troops in Iraq might still be
kept or return, especially if ethnic violence increases or Iran
makes aggressive moves.  “No one should miscalculate our commitment to Iraq, most
particularly Iran,” U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
said today on ABC’s “This Week” program. “We’re not going to
have bases in Iraq, but we have bases elsewhere.”  The U.S. withdrawal offers Iran an opportunity to form “a
link to Iraq, Syria and Lebanon,” Cordesman said, increasing
the possibility of a regional clash “at a time when we lack the
budget to deal with a serious regional crisis.”  Ahmadinejad Offers Training  In an interview on  CNN , Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  was asked if his government will help train the
Iraqi army.  “I think we should -- we should have done it sooner, maybe
seven or eight years ago, and they would avoid killing so many
Iraqi people or Americans, as well,” Ahmadinejad told CNN’s
“Fareed Zakaria GPS” program. He said Iran would wait for the
decision of the Iraqi government about training military
personnel.  Ahmadinejad also said on CNN that “we have these ties in
faith and many of our religious clerics are from Iraq and many
Iraqis are Iranian. And we have people in seminary schools from
both sides.”  “This is a special relationship and I think it is very
unique in the world,” the Iranian leader said on CNN.  The U.S. blames Iran’s elite Quds Force for training and
equipping Shiite militia groups in Iraq, said David Newton, a
former U.S. ambassador to Iraq from 1984 to 1988. It also has
introduced anti-tank weapons into the country, Newton said in a
telephone interview.  Iranian Victory  The U.S. withdrawal “is viewed in the region as a victory
for the Iranians,” Senator  John McCain , an Arizona Republican
and ranking member of the Armed Services Committee, said today
on ABC’s “This Week” program. “I’m very, very concerned about
increased Iranian influence in Iraq.”  Administration officials said that reviews over the last
seven to eight months have found that Iraqi security forces are
ready to take on that challenge.  “One assessment after another about the Iraqi security
forces came back saying these guys are ready, these guys are
capable, these guys are proven,” Deputy National Security
Adviser  Denis McDonough  said Oct. 21.  Newton said that, when the U.S. troops leave, they will
take with them tools and resources that had been helpful to the
Iraqi forces, including intelligence collection capabilities and
equipment such as helicopter gunships.  “The Iraqis do have some special forces, but they’ve got a
way to go,” Newton said, “Without the U.S. backup, in terms of
intel collection, coordination, I think this will be pretty
challenging for them.”  Those special forces will be overseen by a divided
government without a functioning legislature or officials
manning high-level posts, including that of defense minister.  History of War  Robin Wright, at the U.S. Institute of Peace, cautioned
against the idea that withdrawal from Iraq will allow Iran to
extend its influence. While both are both predominantly Shiite
Muslim nations, they fought the  Middle East ’s deadliest war from
1980 to 1988, leaving 123,000 dead. They are rivals over
religious leadership, identity, politics and territory, said.  “Yes, the Shiites have a natural link,” Wright said in a
telephone interview. “But the nationalism and history also will
be important in defining what happens to Iraq after the  United
States  leaves.”  Newton concurred. “The Shias of Iraq, having waited so
long to come to power, don’t want to hand it over to Iran,” he
said.  Still, the withdrawal may intensify the rivalry between
Iran and Saudi Arabia, said Milani. The Saudis blame Iran for
fomenting unrest in majority-Shiite Bahrain and in Saudi
Arabia’s  Eastern Province .  Diplomatic Danger  The U.S. withdrawal will leave American diplomats in Iraq
with new responsibilities and dangers. “The State Department is
being asked to do things it’s never done before,” Newton said,
including managing a huge contracted workforce.  With the troops gone, security for diplomats and facilities
will be the responsibility of some 5,000 contract employees who
probably will face increased violence and incidents of
terrorism, Cordesman said.  U.S. intelligence officers who remain in Iraq and those
contractors will no longer have the stream of information on
potential threats that now comes from American military outposts
around the country, said a U.S. intelligence official who wasn’t
authorized to speak publicly.  Cities such as Kirkuk, with four linguistic groups, and
Mosul, where there is long-standing friction between Sunni Kurds
and Sunni Arabs, are most likely to erupt, Newton said.  Expanded Embassy  In all, about 16,000 personnel will be assigned to the
embassy in Iraq, about 1,700 of them diplomats, experts in
fields such as business and agriculture and law enforcement
officers, while around 5,000 will be security contractors to
guard personnel and facilities including consulates, according
to State Department figures.  The newly established Office of Security Cooperation in the
Embassy will have a core staff of 160 civilians and uniformed
military alongside 750 civilian contractors overseeing Pentagon
assistance programs, including military training. They will be
guarded, fed and housed by 3,500 additional contract personnel.  The security cooperation office will also operate out of 10
offices around the country, half of them shared with other
embassy personnel. The embassy will have consulates in Basra,
Irbil and Kirkuk. The State Department will provide Iraqi police
training with its own personnel.  “What’s unusual is the scale and the militarization of the
foreign service” as it oversees the thousands of security
personnel, Newton said. The agency will even run its own airline
to shuttle staff around the country. “This is not the kind of
thing that diplomats do,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in  Washington  at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  