-- 
Woody Allen’s Co-Ed Obsessions; Gay Brothers: Theater Review

-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f   a n d   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 
2011-10-22T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/woody-allen-s-co-ed-obsessions-gay-brothers-theater-review.html
A fiftyish tuxedo-clad gentleman
with a blissful expression (Steve Guttenberg) carries a twenty-
something blonde in a wedding dress (Ari Graynor) over the
threshold of a tacky honeymoon suite.  Turns out it was quite a ceremony -- we learn as relatives
show up in the suite, tossing invectives. Woody Allen’s
ingeniously plotted comedy is the last of three one-acts in
Broadway’s “ Relatively Speaking .”  “Honeymoon Motel” deals with familiar Allen obsessions
about infidelity, May-December attraction and rules of behavior.
(“Life is short and there are no rules,” says a pizza delivery
man played by Danny Hoch.) While its premise may particularly
appeal to men of a certain age who fancy women half their age,
the laughter was co-ed.  Julie Kavner (from television’s “Rhoda” and “The
Simpsons”) plays the bride’s tart-tongued mom, while Mark Linn-
Baker is her dad. Richard Libertini is wonderful as a rabbi who
utters every line with the cadence of a eulogy.  In Elaine May’s “George is Dead,” Marlo Thomas (from TV’s
“That Girl”) is convincingly delightful as an over-indulged,
helpless widow who delegates retrieving her husband’s body from
Aspen to her former nanny’s daughter (Lisa Emery).  The slimmest offering, by  Ethan Coen , is about a doctor
(Jason Kravits) and a combative mental patient (Hoch).  Directed by John Turturro, the playlets concern themselves
with corrosive family relationships. At a time when light
contemporary comedy without songs or British accents is a
rarity, they’re something different for Broadway. (Boroff)  At the Brooks Atkinson Theatre, 256 W. 47th St.
Information: +1-877-250-2929.  http://relativelyspeakingbroadway .
Rating: **  ‘Sons of the Prophet’  Playwright Stephen Karam is moving up in the world. His
first play, the terrific “Speech & Debate,” had its premiere
in 2007 in the basement of the  Roundabout Theatre Company’s  off-
Broadway theater.  That led to the commissioning of another play, and the
result is the equally terrific “ Sons of the Prophet ,” which is
running upstairs in the Roundabout’s grown-up space, the Laura
Pels.  The sons in question are two gay brothers, Joseph (Santino
Fontana) and Charles (Chris Perfetti), 29 and 18 respectively.
They live in eastern  Pennsylvania , where the towns have Biblical
names (Nazareth, Emmaus, Bethlehem) and the religion-based
publishing industry thrives.  Joseph, not in the closet but barely out, works as an
assistant to the newly hired head of a small publishing house.
Charles, call him far out, depends on his brother for stability
after their father dies following a collision with a decoy deer
placed by a high school prankster who happens to be a star
football player.  The already motherless young men take in their cranky uncle
(played with tremendous warmth and fire by Yusef Bulos).  The prophet of the title is Kahlil Gibran, distantly
related to the boys, who are of Lebanese descent and who
provides a kind of reference point in their lives, not always
happily.  Karam sets up a face-off between the family and the boy
responsible for their father’s accident. But that’s just a
framework for more of the conversational tones he plays with so
well, drawing us into the inner lives of these characters.  He gets great support from a wonderful cast and sensitive
staging by Peter DuBois. Anna Louizos provides yet another of
her ingenious morphing sets -- a comical character in its own
way. They’re all good company. (Gerard)  Through Dec. 23 at the Laura Pels Theatre, 111 W. 46th
St. Information: +1-212-719-1300;
 http://www.roundabouttheatre.org . Rating: ***  (Philip Boroff and Jeremy Gerard and are critics for Muse,
the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are their own.)  To contact the writers of this column:  Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 