-- 
UN Council Calls on Yemen’s Saleh to Resign, Following Gulf Council’s Plan

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 
2011-10-21T19:58:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/yemen-s-saleh-faces-un-action-a-day-after-despot-qaddafi-killed.html
A day after the death of  Muammar
Qaddafi , the United Nations Security Council that authorized the
bombing of  Libya  took action against another Arab leader
clinging to power: Yemen’s Ali Abdullah Saleh.  The council unanimously approved a resolution calling on
Saleh to implement a Gulf Cooperation Council-brokered deal.
Under the plan, he would resign and transfer power to his deputy
in return for immunity from prosecution for his family and inner
circle.  The killing of the Libyan dictator yesterday resonated
among the thousands of Yemenis who took to the streets of the
capital Sana’a to renew calls for the end of Saleh’s 33-year
rule.  “The end of Qaddafi has given us a strong boost that
regardless of how much time our revolt will take, we will win
and the fate of Saleh will be like that of Qaddafi,” Maher al-
Haidari, a protester, said in an interview.  Almost a year after the Arab Spring got under way, three
autocrats have fallen. Tunisia’s Zine El Abidine Ben Ali, fled
to  Saudi Arabia .  Egypt ’s  Hosni Mubarak  was carried out in
stretcher and placed in an iron cage to stand trial. Qaddafi was
killed as he attempted to escape from his hometown of Sirte.  Two authoritarian regimes facing widespread international
condemnation remain standing.  Yemen and Syria  In Syria, President Bashar al-Assad has carried out a
deadly crackdown against protesters that the UN estimates has
killed more than 3,000 since March.  In Yemen, there have been protests almost daily since
January to demand the removal of the president, a U.S. ally who
has held power for more than three decades. Saleh returned to
Yemen on Sept. 23 after three months in Saudi Arabia, where he
received medical treatment following a rocket attack in the
capital.  He has asked for increased guarantees from Gulf nations,
the U.S. and  Europe  before agreeing to hand over power.  While the most powerful UN body acted fast against Qaddafi,
it’s been unable to replicate that speed. Critics led by Russia
argue that the Libya resolution, sold as a way to protect
civilians, instead became a pretext for regime change and must
not be repeated.  “For many in the council, what happened in Libya was very
disturbing,” Jeff Laurenti, a UN analyst at the Century
Foundation, a New York-based research group. Qaddafi’s death
will only “add to the doubts and the caution.”  Vetoes on Syria  U.S., Britain and  France  convinced Russia and  China  to
abstain from the March vote that allowed “all necessary
measures” to protect civilians from Qaddafi’s forces.  After that, they failed to get Russia and China to withhold
their vetoes in a resolution condemning a seven-month crackdown
on anti-government protesters in  Syria . Instead they were met
with a rare double veto not seen since 2008.  The resolution for Yemen, which took a month to prepare and
stresses that “all those responsible for violence, human rights
violations and abuses should be held accountable,” is
considered flawed by leading Yemeni activists who are demanding
more.  Tawakkul Karman, one of three women to win this year’s
Nobel peace prize, traveled to  New York  this week and met with
UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon. Surrounded by hundreds of
supporters outside the UN headquarters, she called Saleh a war
criminal who should be stripped of his immunity and be
investigated by the  International Criminal Court .  The UN Secretary-General’s Special Adviser on Yemen, Jamal
Benomar, returned from a two-week visit to the country having
failed to persuade Saleh to give up power. He told reporters the
situation had “deteriorated dramatically.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  