-- 
LyondellBasell to Pay $2.6 Billion Dividend by Year-End

-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 
2011-10-21T20:18:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-21/lyondellbasell-plans-to-pay-2-6-billion-dividend-by-year-end.html
LyondellBasell Industries NV (LYB) , the
chemical maker that emerged from  bankruptcy protection  last
year, plans to pay a special dividend of as much as $2.6 billion
as it refinances debt.  The special dividend will be paid in the current quarter
from existing cash and new debt,  David Harpole , a Houston-based
spokesman for Rotterdam-based LyondellBasell, said today in a
telephone interview. The dividend would be about $4.55 per
share, based on reported shares outstanding.  LyondellBasell announced a tender offer late yesterday for
$2.8 billion of Lyondell Chemical Co. notes due in 2017 and
2018, and it will ask noteholders to modify covenants that have
limited the ability to pay more cash to shareholders. The debt
will be refinanced at a lower rate, Harpole said.  Lower interest payments could add 32 cents a share to
annual earnings, said Laurence Alexander, a New York-based
analyst at Jefferies & Co. who rates the shares “buy.”  “This step to normalize the  capital structure  is occurring
ahead of expectations, and underscores the company’s confidence
in its free  cash flow  profile even in an uncertain
environment,” Alexander said today in a note.  LyondellBasell, the world’s largest maker of polypropylene
plastic, is benefiting from the low price of U.S. natural gas
relative to oil, the main raw material used in  Asia  and  Europe 
to make ethylene and related resins.  Bonds Rise  LyondellBasell rose 13 percent to $31.02 at the close in
New York, the biggest gain since the stock started trading in
April 2010 during the company’s emergence from bankruptcy.  The tender offer pushed the company’s bonds higher. Its
$3.24 billion of 11 percent notes due in May 2018 added 1.3
cents to 111.8 cents on the dollar at 3:22 p.m. in  New York ,
according to Trace, the bond price-reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The debt has climbed
from 102.3 cents in July.  Liquidity, consisting of $6 billion of cash on hand and
$2.2 billion in unused credit lines, will drop to no less than
$3 billion after payment of the special dividend and completion
of debt financing, LyondellBasell said in a filing. Funded debt
will drop to less than $5 billion from $5.82 billion as of June
30, Harpole said.  Junk Ratings  Improving the capital structure is part of Chief Executive
Officer James Gallogly plan to rid the company of junk ratings
on its debt, which Standard & Poor’s rates BB-, three levels
below investment grade. LyondellBasell has reduced debt by
almost $1.5 billion since emerging from bankruptcy, Harpole
said.  The tender is for 67 percent of the company’s 8 percent
notes and 41 percent of the 11 percent notes, Harpole said. He
declined to say whether the company will try to buy back more
debt.  The company’s debt ratings may rise to investment grade
after the refinancing is completed, said Kenneth Duffel, an
analyst for KDP Investment Advisors in Montpelier,  Vermont .
Investors should tender their bonds as the securities may drop
if the offer fails, he wrote in a report today.  Company directors approved an initial dividend of 10 cents
a quarter in April and raised the payment in August to 20 cents.
The current annual yield is 2.65 percent. Jefferies’ Alexander
said the company may lift the yield to 3.8 percent after getting
rid of restrictive debt covenants.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 