-- Apple’s Mapping Fiasco Gives Rivals an Apology-Fueled Boost
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-09-29T00:18:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-29/apple-s-mapping-fiasco-gives-rivals-an-apology-fueled-boost.html
Apple Inc.’s map-software
shortcomings -- though vexing for many iPhone owners -- have
been a boon for makers of competing mobile-navigation tools.  AOL Inc. (AOL) ’s MapQuest leaped into the top 20 on Apple’s  App
Store , while start-up Waze Inc. said its downloads hit a record
today after Apple Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  suggested
that customers frustrated with his company’s iPhone mapping
software try services from a competitor. Apple also opened a
navigation category within the online App Store.  The boost came after Cook issued a public apology for
inadequacies with mapping software introduced last week. The
tool has been widely faulted for unreliable landmark searches,
routes that get users lost and a lack of public transit
directions. The new mapping replaces  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s service,
which had been Apple’s default navigation tool since the iPhone
was introduced in 2007.  “This is going to be our biggest day ever,” Noam Bardin,
CEO of  Palo Alto , California-based Waze, said in an interview.
“I can’t even predict where it’s going to end.”  Cook singled out Waze, MapQuest and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Bing
as alternatives to Apple’s mapping application that can be
downloaded from Apple’s App Store. He also said mapping services
from Google and  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  could be used from the iPhone’s web
browser.  “At Apple, we strive to make world-class products that
deliver the best experience possible to our customers,” Cook
said in a statement posted on the company’s website. “With the
launch of our new Maps last week, we fell short on this
commitment.”  Google’s Headstart  Microsoft said it didn’t yet have data to report on the
number of Bing downloads.  Since introducing the mapping application last week as part
of a mobile-software upgrade, Apple has been learning how
difficult a service navigation is to provide, Bardin said.
Google and Nokia are two of the biggest mapping companies, along
with  TomTom NV (TOM2) , from which Apple is licensing data.  Apple introduced the new feature to replace Google, a
business rival that makes the competing Android operating system
used by companies including Samsung Electronics Co.  Google started its mapping service in 2005 with mixed
results. Yet it grew to become one of the industry leaders by
investing heavily and sending out cars loaded with Global
Positioning System sensors and other technology to map the
world.  User Help  To catch up, Apple will rely on the millions of iPhone and
iPad owners. Cook said that more than 100 million people are
using the company’s new iOS 6 mobile operating system with the
new mapping software. As more people use the service, data will
be accumulated that can help improve it, he said. The
application has a feature for customers to tell Apple when
there’s a bad location or other bug.  Bardin of Waze said he was thrilled to be mentioned in
Cook’s apology letter. His company offers a free crowd-sourced
navigation tool, so that any time somebody uses the service they
are passively sending GPS data back to the company that is used
to build better maps. It can alert drivers to traffic and divert
them to different routes, based on data being sent from
smartphone owners up the road.  “The more people who use my service the better it is,”
said Bardin, whose company is funded by investors including
Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers. The company plans to make
money eventually by selling location-based advertisements.  Apple is being held back because the underlying data it’s
licensing isn’t good enough, Bardin said. While the quality will
improve, it will be very expensive to match the sum Google has
already spent on maps, he said.  “The tactical challenge is they bit off what Google does
really well,” he said, “and tried to do it themselves.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  