-- AstraZeneca’s Iressa Shows Benefit in Tests on Esophageal Cancer
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2012-09-29T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-29/astrazeneca-s-iressa-shows-benefit-in-tests-on-esophageal-cancer.html
AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) ’s Iressa improved
quality of life in a trial on advanced esophageal cancer
patients and showed a “modest” benefit in extending the time
it took for the disease to worsen compared with a placebo.  Patients who received Iressa, also known as gefitinib,
experienced less pain and difficulty in swallowing, the  European
Society for Medical Oncology  said in a statement. Their risk of
the disease worsening following treatment was reduced by 21
percent, with a median progression-free survival rate of two
weeks longer than those who received the placebo, according to
the study, presented to the cancer association today.  The third-phase  trial  included 450 patients in 51 sites in
the U.K. whose disease had progressed after as many as two
chemotherapy treatments.  About 50,000 patients in the European Union relapse after
chemotherapy, according to the statement. Another study is
planned which will analyze the biopsies of 300 patients to find
whether there was a common genetic trait among those who
benefited most from the treatment.  “If such a benefit can be identified, then given the good
tolerance of gefitinib, it could potentially be used in relapsed
esophageal cancer,”  David Ferry , author of the study and
professor of medical oncology at New Cross Hospital in
Wolverhampton,  England , said in the statement.  Study Sponsors  The study was sponsored by Cancer Research UK, Experimental
Cancer Medicine Centre, National Institute for Health Research
Cancer Research Network, Oncology Clinical Trials Office and
Royal Wolverhampton Hospital NHS Trust.  Esophageal cancer is the eighth most-common cancer
worldwide, with an estimated 481,000 people diagnosed in 2008
and 406,000 deaths, according to the  International Agency for
Research on Cancer . More than 80 percent of the cases and deaths
were in  developing countries , the agency said. The cancer is
difficult to treat as it’s typically diagnosed at a late stage,
according to Cancer Research UK.  Iressa works by blocking the transmission of signals in a
gene called the EGFR, or epidermal growth factor receptor, which
is located on the surface of cancer cells and encourages tumors
to grow. Iressa was approved in  Europe  in July 2009 for the
treatment of metastatic non-small cell lung cancer patients who
have an EGFR mutation which makes them respond more acutely to
the medicine. In the follow-up study, Ferry will be looking at
whether patients who benefited most from Iressa in the
esophageal cancer study had the same EGFR mutation.  There is no standard of care for patients whose disease
spreads following chemotherapy, though more patients are
becoming eligible for a second round of chemotherapy, the study
said.  “Hopefully, a biomarker predicting efficacy will be
identified to allow the use of gefitinib in esogastric cancer in
a personalized fashion,” Jean-Yves Douillard, chairman of the
ESMO Educational Committee and not involved in the study, said
in the statement. “Considering the present practice however,
future studies should have a more active treatment choice than
placebo in the control arm.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in Frankfurt at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  