-- Aviva Unit Said to Draw Apollo, Harbinger, Guggenheim Bids
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r ,   K e v i n   C r o w l e y   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2012-09-29T19:14:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-29/aviva-u-s-unit-said-to-draw-apollo-harbinger-guggenheim-bids.html
Aviva Plc (AV/)  got offers from  Apollo
Global Management LLC (APO) , Harbinger Capital Partners and Guggenheim
Partners LLC for a U.S. life insurance division it’s seeking to
sell, said people with knowledge of the matter.  The unit may fetch more than $1 billion, said the people,
who spoke on condition of anonymity because the talks are
private. Some of the bidders have held talks with other
investors, such as private-equity firms, about forming groups to
share the cost of the purchase, the people said.  Apollo, Harbinger, and Guggenheim have been buying unwanted
operations from life insurers since 2009, in part to get access
to a stable pool of funds for their investment-management
operations. At the same time, some of the biggest life insurers,
such as  Hartford Financial Services Group Inc. (HIG)  and Sun Life
Financial Inc., have stopped selling some U.S. life and annuity
products.  Officials at Apollo, Guggenheim, Aviva and Harbinger
declined to comment.  Aviva, the U.K.’s second-biggest insurer by market value,
is selling or winding down almost a third of its 58 businesses
as it seeks to exit less profitable markets and increase its
capital reserves, which have been lowered by the European
sovereign debt crisis.  Strategic Review  Chairman John McFarlane, who took the role in July, has
overseen the departure of Chief Executive Officer Andrew Moss,
who quit after a row over compensation, and is implementing a
strategic review to bolster the insurer’s reserves and focus on
its biggest markets such as the U.K.  Aviva acquired most of its U.S. operations through the $2.9
billion purchase of Des Moines, Iowa-based AmerUs Group Co. in
2006. It was the company’s largest acquisition and aimed to tap
the growing U.S. baby boomer retirement market and position the
firm away from slower growth in  Europe .  The purchase of AmerUs, the third-biggest fixed annuity
provider in the U.S. according to data compiled by Bloomberg,
failed to produce Aviva’s desired returns because of the amount
of capital needed to support the business.  In August, Aviva said it wrote down the value of its U.S.
arm by 876 million pounds ($1.4 billion).  European Solvency II regulations, which are yet to be
finalized, will force Europe-based insurers to hold more capital
against their U.S. units, reduce returns and make them
uncompetitive against local rivals, according to Tidjane Thiam,
CEO of Prudential Plc, the U.K.’s biggest insurer.  Acquisitions  Apollo, the private-equity firm run by Leon Black, entered
the business in 2009 through the creation of its Athene Holding
Ltd. affiliate, and expanded the following year through the $628
million purchase of Royal Bank of Canada’s U.S. life insurance
unit. Athene in July agreed to buy Presidential Life Corp. for
about $415 million.  Guggenheim also started in 2009 through an acquisition, and
has since agreed to buy life-insurance units of FBL Financial
Group Inc. and Industrial Alliance Insurance and Financial
Services Inc. Guggenheim is a money manager based in  Chicago  and
New York.  Harbinger, the hedge fund manager run by  Philip Falcone ,
entered the business by buying  Old Mutual Plc (OML) ’s U.S. unit for
$350 million in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  