-- Baidu CEO Li Says Mobile Web Revenue Remains Elusive in China
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2012-09-29T01:50:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-29/baidu-ceo-li-says-mobile-web-revenue-remains-elusive-in-china.html
Baidu Inc. Chief Executive Officer
Robin Li said  China ’s biggest Internet companies haven’t yet
figured out the best way to make money from mobile, and he’s
patiently experimenting with business models.  About 25 percent of  Baidu’s (BIDU)  research and development
spending is on mobile, even as smartphones make up less than 10
percent of the company’s total sales, Li said yesterday at the
China 2.0 conference at  Stanford University . Mobile sales at
least tripled this year as Baidu rolled out products, he said.  “Exactly when it will become a material source I don’t
know,” Li said in his keynote address. “I’m in no hurry to
figure that out because we know there’s lots of room for
improvement” in mobile advertisements, he said.  Baidu, owner of China’s most-used search engine, introduced
a mobile browser earlier this month for devices running Google
Inc.’s Android operating system, as part of Li’s effort to
become the front door to the Web for smartphone users. Mobile-ad
sales in China more than doubled to 2.4 billion  yuan  ($380
million) last year, according to research company iResearch.  Beijing-based Baidu said in July that it’s offering search
on Sina Corp.’s mobile Web portal. That came after it agreed to
offer search results of posts by users on Sina Weibo, a
microblogging service similar to Twitter Inc. The company has
also introduced potential money-making services like cloud
storage.  Still, Li said that while he’s optimistic about the future
of the mobile Web, the money currently being generated doesn’t
yet match the hype.  “It’s very important for us to find the right business
model for the mobile Internet,” he said. “We know users love
the mobile Internet and we have to go with them and we have to
develop things they want.”  Baidu  rose  2 percent to $116.89 in  New York  trading
yesterday, leaving it little changed this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  