-- Bayer’s Nexavar May Have Prolonged Life in Some Lung Patients
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-09-29T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-29/bayer-s-nexavar-may-have-prolonged-life-in-some-lung-patients.html
Bayer AG (BAYN) ’s liver cancer drug
Nexavar may have prolonged the lives of lung cancer patients
with a certain genetic mutation, though it didn’t improve
overall survival rates in a study presented today.  The trial missed its main goal of prolonging life among
patients with advanced lung cancer, Bayer said in May. A
subsequent analysis showed that among subjects with a mutation
in a gene called EGFR, those receiving Nexavar survived twice as
long as those who got a placebo, according to data presented at
the European Society for Medical Oncology’s meeting in Vienna
today.  That finding is “a great breakthrough that merits
validation in a prospective study,” Rafael Rosell, a cancer
doctor from the Hospital Germans Trias i Pujol in Spain, said in
a statement. He wasn’t involved in the study.  Bayer is discussing the findings with the scientific
community and hasn’t decided whether to pursue a trial of
Nexavar in patients with the mutation, said Dimitris Voliotis,
vice president of clinical oncology for the Leverkusen, Germany-
based drugmaker.  “This could be a chance finding,” Voliotis said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “The data are provocative and
interesting. To be able to have an answer to the question
whether Nexavar or any other drug works in EGFR mutant
populations, you really have to do a prospective trial. We
haven’t decided on that yet.”  The study, led by Luis Paz-Ares at the Virgen del Rocio
University Hospital in Seville, Spain, tested Nexavar among 703
lung cancer patients whose disease had progressed after
treatment with two or three other drugs. Those receiving Nexavar
survived for a median of 248 days, compared with 253 days among
those getting a placebo.  Bayer said in May that the trial, dubbed Mission, had
missed its main goal, without providing further details. The
company doesn’t plan to apply for regulatory approval of Nexavar
as a third or fourth-line lung cancer treatment, Voliotis said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  