-- Canadian Dollar Rallies Most Since 2010 on Stimulus
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2012-09-29T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-29/canadian-dollar-rallies-most-since-2010-on-central-bank-stimulus.html
Canada ’s dollar gained the most in
two years against its U.S. peer this quarter after stimulus
measures by governments worldwide fueled the advance of stocks
and oil, spurring investor demand for higher-yielding assets.  The Canadian currency also advanced this month as the
 Federal Reserve  announced a plan for open-ended debt buying to
spur economic growth, which may debase the U.S. currency.
Canadian government bonds dropped in the quarter as European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  unveiled an unlimited debt-
buying program, sapping demand for haven assets. Canadian
employment growth is forecast to slow in September, according to
a Bloomberg survey before the report next week.  “This has been the quarter of central banks fighting back
and policy makers delivering quite impressive promises -- and,
in some cases, some impressive stimulus,”  Eric Lascelles , chief
economist in Toronto at Royal Bank of Canada’s Global Asset
Management  unit, said yesterday in a phone interview. “There
has been progress in  Europe  as well -- I definitely feel better
about the world than I did a quarter ago. The story is one in
which commodity currencies in particular have moved up.”  The loonie, as the Canadian currency is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, rose 3.4 percent in the
quarter to 98.37 cents per  U.S. dollar , the biggest gain since
the quarter ended March 2010. It fell 1.8 percent in the
previous quarter. Canada’s dollar added 0.3 percent this month
and declined 0.7 percent on the week. One Canadian dollar buys
$1.0166.  The Standard & Poor’s  Index (SPX)  posted a 5.8 percent gain this
quarter following last quarter’s loss of 3.3 percent. Futures
for crude oil, Canada’s largest export, gained 8.5 percent this
quarter, the most this year.  Longs Gain  Futures traders decreased their bets that the Canadian
dollar will gain against the U.S. dollar, figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on an advance in the Canadian dollar
compared with those on a drop -- so-called net longs -- was
105,346 on Sept. 25, compared with net longs of 111,881 a week
earlier. Futures are agreements to buy or sell assets at a set
price and date. The figures reflect holdings in currency-futures
contracts at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange as of Tuesday.  Canadian employment is forecast to rise by 10,000 this
month after a 34,300 gain the prior month. The jobless rate is
expected to hold steady at 7.3 percent, according to another
survey.  Bonds Decline  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  on Sept. 5 held his key
lending rate at 1 percent, where it’s been since September 2010,
the longest unchanged period since the 1950s. Carney reiterated
that an increase “may become appropriate” as domestic spending
props up an economic recovery restrained by weak global demand
for exports.  Government bonds fell in the quarter, with yields on the
benchmark 10-year security gaining five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 1.73 percent after touching an all-time low
of 1.57 percent on July 23. The 2.75 security maturing in June
2022 declined 72 cents to C$109.05.  Debt issuance by Canada’s provinces fell to the lowest
level this quarter since the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. as local officials make progress on promises to
close record deficits.  Canadian governments and agencies issued C$19.3 billion
($19.7 billion) of bonds since June when issuance slowed to
C$14.3 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Provincial debt handed investors a gain of 1.4 percent this
quarter, down from 5.9 percent a year earlier, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data show.  ‘Stimulus Expectations’  Ontario, Canada’s most populous province, sold an
additional C$600 million of 3.5 percent notes due in June 2043,
yielding 97 basis points more than comparable government debt
yesterday. The size of the issue is now C$5.9 billion, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Frustrated by the slow pace of the U.S. recovery, Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  announced Sept. 13 that the central
bank would likely keep rates at a record low and purchase $40
billion of mortgage bonds per month in a third round of so
called quantitative easing, or QE3, until the jobs shows
“sustained improvement.”  “All the movement this quarter has been about stimulus
expectations and, eventually, realization of stimulus measures
around the world,” Blake Jespersen, managing director of
foreign exchange in Toronto at  Bank of Montreal (BMO) , said yesterday
in a phone interview. “With the central banks having all the
cards on the table, the focus is back on ‘What does that mean
for growth for the world economy?’ ”  ‘Massively Lower’  The ECB said it may buy bonds with maturities as long as
three years on the secondary markets of countries that ask
Europe’s bailout fund to purchase their debt on the primary
exchanges. Europe’s central bank said it planned to sterilize
its bonds purchases, taking out as much liquidity as it injects.  Spain ’s  government bonds  rose on the quarter, with the 10-
year yield falling 100 basis points to 5.9 percent, as the
nation held off from seeking a bailout that would enable the
central bank to buy its debt. A stress test of Spain’s banks
showed a capital deficit of 59.3 billion euros ($76.3 billion),
less than previously estimated.  “Despite the slightly greater concern over Europe over the
past few weeks, this quarter has been a good one for policy
makers and it’s been a great one for Europe,” RBC’s Lascelles
said. “You can see it in Spanish bond yields being massively
lower than at their worst.”  Canada’s dollar has strengthened 1.7 percent this year
against nine developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The greenback has dropped
2.5 percent, with the Japanese yen tumbling 4 percent to lead
decliners. The New Zealand dollar’s 4.7 percent rise leads
gainers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in  New York  at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  