-- Chavez Gives Midnight Speech to Launch Chinese-Built Satellite
-- B y   J o s e   O r o z c o   a n d   N a t h a n   C r o o k s
-- 2012-09-29T06:12:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-29/chavez-gives-midnight-speech-to-launch-chinese-built-satellite.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez 
spoke until 12:40 a.m. Caracas time on state television as the
nation celebrated the launch of its second Chinese-made
satellite into orbit last night.  “This is only possible under revolution,” Chavez, who is
bidding for a third six-year term in an Oct. 7 election, said.
“We’ve entered the future.”  The Miranda satellite, as it’s known, was launched from
 China  late yesterday and will conduct observation of the Earth
to support agriculture and housing projects in the South
American country, Science Minister Jorge Arreaza said on the
 Televen  network yesterday. The satellite will also boost
surveillance capabilities to protect against security threats
and detect illegal mining sites during its 14 daily orbits,
Arreaza said.  The satellite was funded with loans from China that
 Venezuela  repays with oil, Chavez said. Since 2007, the  China
Development Bank  has lent Venezuela $42.5 billion collateralized
by revenue from the world’s largest oil reserves, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg from announcements of deals by the
Chavez government. The loans are fueling increased  government
spending  ahead the election.  “One of the cameras allows us to analyze where you find
vegetation, water and minerals,” Arreaza said. “That way, we
can guarantee all the planning processes including those in
agriculture, urban and environment.”  Crowds gathered in a plaza in downtown Caracas to watch the
launch on large television screens.  China and Venezuela signed a $140 million contract last
year to build and launch the satellite. Venezuela operates
another Chinese-built satellite, known as the  Simon Bolivar ,
which supports telecommunications projects including spreading
internet access.  Venezuela is working to develop its own satellites and will
open a development center next year, Arreaza said on state
television.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net ;
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  