-- Chavez Says He’s Not Declaring Victory Yet Ahead of Election
-- B y   N a t h a n   C r o o k s   a n d   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 2012-09-29T00:05:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-29/chavez-says-he-s-not-declaring-victory-yet-ahead-of-election-1-.html
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez
said he’s not declaring victory yet ahead of Oct. 7 elections
and his supporters must turn out massively to assure a large win
over challenger Henrique Capriles Radonski.  “I’m not declaring victory yet, we’re going to win, but we
have to give it all we have until the end,” Chavez said today
on state television at a rally in Monagas state.  Capriles is ahead in several polls while trailing by as
much as 15 percentage points in others as he tries to unseat
Chavez from almost 14 years in power. Capriles, a 40-year-old
former governor of Miranda, has played up his youth and fitness
to offer a contrast to the condition of his 58-year-old opponent
who is coming off three operations related to an unnamed cancer
in the past 15 months.  Chavez, who spoke at the rally in Monagas state for about
40 minutes before thousands of supporters, said he accepted
criticism of his government and that middle class voters should
“carefully consider” their vote and support his revolution.  “Some people people may be frustrated with some of the
failures of our government. They may be upset that a road wasn’t
paved, that the lights went out, or that they haven’t been given
a house,” said Chavez. “That could be true in many cases, and
I accept the criticism. In my next presidential period from 2013
to 2019, I promise better efficiency.”  Capriles, who spoke at a rally today in central Guarico
state, said he would improve electricity infrastructure that
causes frequent blackouts and raise the minimum wage to 2,500
bolivars ($581.40) a month if elected, according to a statement
sent from his campaign headquarters.  “Do you want a president who serves you or one who talks
to you?” Capriles said at the rally “The time to advance has
arrived. Fourteen years has been enough.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  