-- Chelsea Defeats Arsenal 2-1 in Premier League; Spurs Beat United
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-09-29T18:44:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-29/chelsea-beats-arsenal-2-1-to-remain-unbeaten-in-premier-league.html
Goals from  Fernando Torres  and  Juan Mata  saw Chelsea defeat Arsenal 2-1 to remain unbeaten in
English soccer’s Premier League. Tottenham won at Manchester
United for the first time in 23 years.  Chelsea scored twice at the Emirates Stadium in north
London today to seal a fifth win in six games and top the
standings with 16 points.  “We knew before the game it would be an important
result,” Torres told Sky Sports. “It was one of the main
targets we have this season, winning these kinds of games. We
want to be in the top four for sure, fighting for the title.”  Tottenham held on to beat United 3-2 and Liverpool routed
Norwich 5-2 for its first win. Manchester City rallied for a 2-1
win at Fulham, Everton beat Southampton 3-1, Swansea lost at
Stoke 2-0, Sunderland beat Wigan 1-0 and Newcastle tied 2-2 at
Reading.  Chelsea opened the scoring in the 20th minute as Juan Mata
lofted a free kick into the area and Torres, who was battling
with Laurent Koscielny, hooked his foot around the defender to
volley the ball inside the post.  Torres broke again on goal minutes later after  Thomas Vermaelen  slipped only to go down after a challenge from the
back-tracking Koscielny, with referee  Martin Atkinson  waving off
the Blues’ penalty claim.  Arsenal tied the game in the 42nd minute when substitute
Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain, who had replaced the injured Abou Diaby, sent a pass to the center of the area for Gervinho. He
turned and fired a shot past  Petr Cech  into the roof of the net.  Chelsea regained the lead in the 53rd minute as Mata’s
curling free kick eluded a series of players in the area before
going past diving goalkeeper Vito Mannone.  Forced Wide  Cech made a fingertip save of Lukas Podolski’s header, then
made a another lunging one-hand stop of Olivier Giroud’s shot.
Giroud had one last chance in injury time but shot into the side
of the net after being forced wide by Cech.  Arsenal remains on nine points after suffering its first
loss. Three of the four goals the Gunners have conceded this
season have come from set pieces.  “We conceded two soft goals,” Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  said. “They had three shots on target and they scored
two goals. It’s a shame. The least we deserved was a draw.”  Jan Vertonghen, Gareth Bale and  Clint Dempsey  scored as
Tottenham ended a winless run in league and cup competition at
Old Trafford that dated back to 1989.  “It was a rollercoaster, up and down,” Demspey told ESPN.
“We ground out a result, showed a lot of character and got
three points.”  Vertonghen and Bale gave Spurs a 2-0 halftime lead before
Nani scored in the 51st minute for United. Clint Dempsey restored
Tottenham’s two-goal advantage just a minute later, but Shinji Kagawa answered for United one minute later to make it 3-2.  United pressed forward, with  Wayne Rooney  and  Michael Carrick  both hitting the post, but were unable to get the tying
goal.  Luis Suarez  scored three goals at Norwich for the second
straight season to lead Liverpool to victory. Nuri Sahin and
 Steven Gerrard  also scored for the Reds, who opened this
campaign with three defeats and two draws.  Edin Dzeko’s goal in the 87th minute gave defending
champion Manchester City the comeback win at Fulham. Mladen Petric put the Cottagers in front with a 10th-minute penalty
kick before  Sergio Aguero  tied the game just before halftime.  Second Place  Nikica Jelavic scored twice as Everton beat Southampton to
climb above Manchester United into second place, three points
behind Chelsea.  Peter Crouch  scored both goals as Stoke beat
Swansea for its first victory.  Steven Fletcher  scored the only goal as Sunderland ended a
12-match winless run by beating Wigan, which had Jordi Gomez
sent off in the 47th minute. Demba Ba’s second goal of the game
with seven minutes left gave Newcastle the away draw at Reading.  West Brom visits Aston Villa in tomorrow’s game, and Queens
Park Rangers hosts West Ham in two days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  