-- China’s Manufacturing Shrinks for 11th Month, HSBC PMI Shows
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-29T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-29/china-s-manufacturing-shrinks-for-11th-month-hsbc-pmi-shows.html
China ’s manufacturing contracted
for an 11th straight month, a private survey found, increasing
pressure on the government to bolster growth in the world’s
second-largest economy.  The purchasing managers’ index from  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and
Markit Economics had a final reading of 47.9 for September,
compared with 47.6 in August and a preliminary level of 47.8
released Sept. 20. New  export  orders declined in September at
the fastest pace in 42 months and purchasing activity in
manufacturing fell for a fifth consecutive month.  The data add to challenges for Chinese leaders who are
preparing for a once-a-decade handover of power that begins in
November and also trying to balance the priorities of  growth 
with avoiding a resurgence in  home prices . Speculation that
authorities will take steps to counter a deepening slowdown
spurred a 4.1 percent surge in the benchmark Shanghai Composite
Index in the week’s final two trading days.  “The failure of both external and internal demand is
weighing heavily on Chinese manufacturing,” said  Glenn Maguire ,
principal at consultant Asia Sentry Advisory Pty and former
Societe Generale SA chief Asia economist. “External demand
recovery requires a stronger U.S.,  Japan  and  Europe  - a highly
unlikely dynamic in the near term. Internal demand recovery
requires greater policy support.”  The  yuan  climbed on Sept. 28 to its strongest level since
1993 on speculation China will announce measures to bolster the
economy. The People’s Bank of China injected record funds into
the financial system during the week to ease a cash squeeze in
the run-up to a week-long holiday. China’s markets are closed
through Oct. 7.  Output Prices  Yesterday’s data also showed that manufacturing output and
input prices continued to decline and that employee numbers
decreased a seventh straight month. The HSBC and Markit
Economics PMI hasn’t had a monthly reading above 50, which would
indicate expansion, since October 2011.  “Beijing should step up easing to support growth and
employment,”  Qu Hongbin , chief China economist for HSBC in Hong
Kong, said in a statement. “Fiscal measures should play a more
important role in the coming months.”  A separate, government-backed purchasing managers’ index
for manufacturing will be released tomorrow. The  gauge  probably
rose to 50.1 in September, just above the expansion-contraction
dividing level of 50, from a nine-month low of 49.2 in August,
based on the median estimate of 21 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  Party Congress  China announced on Sept. 28 that the Communist Party will
hold its 18th congress starting Nov. 8, when more than 2,000
delegates from the ruling party will gather to appoint new
leaders. It was also announced that former Politburo member Bo
Xilai had been expelled from the party.  The announcements showed “the dust finally settled” on
the new leadership lineup and should mean a “re-focus on
economic policy making,” Lu Ting, chief  Greater China  economist
at Bank of America Corp. in  Hong Kong , wrote in a note to
clients. “We don’t expect a big stimulus, but policy easing,
stimulus will be stepped up.”  Chinese industrial companies’ profits dropped for a fifth
month in August, government data showed on Sept. 27.  Baoshan
Iron & Steel Co. (600019) , the nation’s largest listed steelmaker, said
Sept. 26 it suspended production at a Chinese plant after demand
dropped for slabs used to make ships and bridges.  Slowing Growth  The PMI report also adds to evidence that China’s slowdown
has extended into a seventh quarter after  growth  decelerated to
a three-year low of 7.6 percent in the April-June period. The
economy may expand 7.4 percent in the three months through
September from a year earlier, based on the median estimate of
23 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News from Sept. 11 to Sept.
18. Estimates ranged from 7.1 percent to 7.9 percent.  Demand for Chinese exports has sputtered as a result of the
 European debt crisis , with shipments to the European Union
falling 12.7 percent from a year earlier in August as overall
exports gained 2.7 percent. Domestic consumption has been eroded
by a government campaign to rein in the  property market  and
boost the affordability of homes, which has included raising
down payment requirements and limiting purchases.  China’s industrial production rose 8.9 percent in August
from a year earlier, the weakest pace since May 2009, compared
with a 13.5 percent gain in August 2011.  The government has sped up approvals for investment
projects, lowered  interest rates  and boosted tax support for
exporters in response to the slowdown. At the same time,
authorities have refrained from easing monetary policy since
rate cuts in June and July and a May reduction in banks’ reserve
requirements.  Wen signaled this month that there’s more room for fiscal
and monetary policy to support growth, saying Sept. 11 that the
nation has full confidence it will meet its economic goals for
the year. The government is trying to prevent growth this year
from slipping below the 7.5 percent target set in March, which
would already be the weakest since 1990.  To contact  Bloomberg News  staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  