-- Cincinnati’s Bailey Pitches No-Hitter; Yankees and Orioles Win
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-09-29T04:53:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-29/cincinnati-s-bailey-pitches-no-hitter-yankees-and-orioles-win.html
Homer Bailey of the  Cincinnati Reds 
threw the seventh no-hitter in Major League Baseball this season
and tied his team for the best record in the majors.  “I just kept trying to put up zeroes, just one pitch at a
time,” Bailey said in a televised interview. “We’re trying to
get the best record in the National League.”  The Reds tied Washington with a 95-62 record when Bailey
no-hit the Pittsburgh Pirates in a 1-0 victory, while the NL
East-leading Nationals fell 12-2 to the St. Louis Cardinals.  The  New York  Yankees routed the Toronto Blue Jays 11-4 to
retain the American League East lead, one game ahead of the
Baltimore Orioles, who defeated the Boston  Red Sox  9-1. There
are five days left in the regular season.  At PNC Park in Pittsburgh, Bailey, who struck out 10 to tie
his career high, got Alex Presley on a pop fly to second base to
end the game and become the first Reds pitcher to throw a no-
hitter since Tom Browning had a perfect game against the  Los
Angeles Dodgers  in 1988.  The only Pirates to reach base came on an error by third
baseman Scott Rolen in the third inning and a walk to Andrew McCutchen in the seventh.  “My defense has just covered my back,” Bailey said.
“They made me look good.”  Bailey, 26, is 13-10 this season for the Reds, who already
have clinched the National League Central division title. It was
the 15th no-hitter in Reds history and the first against the
Pirates since Bob Gibson of the St. Louis Cardinals held them
hitless in 1971.  There have been three other no-hitters and three perfect
games in the major leagues this season.  The three perfect games were by  Felix Hernandez  of the
Seattle Mariners,  Matt Cain  of the  San Francisco Giants  and
Philip Humber of the  Chicago White Sox . The other no-hitters
were by Johan Santana of the New York Mets, Jered Weaver of the
Los Angeles Angels and a combined no-hitter by  Kevin Millwood 
and five Mariners relievers.  Yankees Win  At Rogers Centre in Toronto,  Russell Martin  hit a three-run
homer in the sixth for the Yankees. Ichiro Suzuki and  Robinson Cano  added run-scoring singles and  Eric Chavez  blasted a two-run
homer in the ninth.  Colby Rasmus and Adam Lind hit home runs for Toronto, whose
69-88 record puts the Blue Jays tied for fourth with the Red Sox
in the five-team AL East, 22 games behind the Yankees.  Hiroki Kuroda (15-11) gave up two runs on 10 hits and
struck out four in 5 1/3 innings. Chad Jenkins (0-3) lasted only
3 2/3 innings for Toronto.  At Oriole Park, Ryan Flaherty hit his first career grand
slam to give the Orioles a 6-1 lead at the end of the first
inning after Chris Davis had hit a two-run homer.  Orioles Triumph  “I was just looking for a pitch to drive,” Flaherty said.
“Two outs and I got a good pitch to hit.”  Manny Machado and Flaherty each hit run-scoring doubles and
Taylor Teagarden had an RBI single as Baltimore added three runs
in the fifth inning.  Chris Tillman (9-2) allowed one unearned run on one hit in
eight innings for the Orioles. Red Sox starter Aaron Cook lasted
one inning, allowing six runs on five hits.  Baltimore and the Oakland Athletics are in position for the
two AL wild-card spots. The Los Angeles Angels, who began the
night two games behind the A’s for the second wild-card spot,
won 7-4 at the Texas Rangers (92-65), who are first in the AL
West. The Detroit Tigers (84-73), who lost 4-2 at the Minnesota
Twins, had their lead in the AL Central cut to one game over the
Chicago White Sox, who beat Tampa Bay 3-1.  In the National League wild-card race, the Atlanta Braves
(91-66) and  St. Louis Cardinals  (85-72) hold the two spots.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  