-- Dollar Falls Most Since 2011 as Central Banks Bump Up Stimulus
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-09-29T04:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-29/dollar-falls-most-since-2011-as-central-banks-bump-up-stimulus.html
The  Dollar Index  fell by the most
since the first quarter of 2011 after the  European Central Bank 
pledged to protect the euro from unraveling and the  Federal
Reserve  committed to reduce unemployment via open-ended debt
buying, which may debase the U.S. currency.  Since July 26, when ECB President  Mario Draghi  said he
would do “whatever it takes” to save the euro, the 17-nation
currency rose versus 15 of its 16 most-traded counterparts
tracked by Bloomberg. Amid the Fed’s expansion of monetary
stimulus, the Dollar Index lost 2.1 percent in the third
quarter. The Bank of  Japan , which followed the Fed and the ECB
in expanding its balance sheet by 10 trillion yen ($130
billion), is scheduled to announce its next policy decision on
Oct. 5.  “The ECB announcement to buy one- to three-year bonds in
the periphery” shaped  currency markets  last quarter,  George Davis , chief technical analyst for fixed income and currency
strategy in Toronto at Royal Bank of Canada, said in an
interview. “It was the opening of a new chapter.”  The dollar fell 1.5 percent during the past three months to
$1.2866 in New York and touched $1.3172 on Sept. 17, the least
since May. The common currency weakened 0.8 percent to 100.21
yen. The dollar lost 2.3 percent to 77.96 yen.  Big Winner  Sweden’s krona appreciated more than all of its major peers
versus the dollar this quarter, gaining 5.4 percent. The South
African rand had the biggest quarterly decline, slipping 1.8
percent versus the greenback  Brazil’s real has lost 7.9 percent versus the dollar in
2012, almost three times the decline of the rand, the second-
biggest loser. The Mexican peso leads all 16 of the dollar’s
biggest peers with a gain of 8.4 percent this year.  The  New Zealand dollar  led all major currencies this month
against the greenback, appreciating 3.3 percent. The real
increased the least out of 16 counterparts versus the dollar,
gaining 0.2 percent.  The euro has fallen 0.7 percent during the past three
months against a basket of nine other developed-market
currencies, including the yen, pound and Australian dollar,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. Japan’s
currency has declined 2.2 percent and the greenback has lost 4.3
percent, the most.  Bond Buying  Spain’s cabinet produced its fifth austerity budget Sept.
27 amid speculation the nation will join Ireland, Greece and
Portugal in requiring a financial bailout. It announced
yesterday its banks have a capital deficit of 59.3 billion euros
($76.3 billion), less than previously estimated, according to a
test designed to lift doubts about a financial industry hit by
real estate losses.  The ECB said it may buy bonds with maturities as long as
three years. Europe’s central bank said it planned to sterilize
its bonds purchases, taking out as much liquidity as it injects,
while the Fed announced unsterilized debt purchases, which
increase the nation’s  money supply .  Frustrated by the slow pace of the U.S. recovery, Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  announced Sept. 13 that the central
bank would likely keep rates at a record low and purchase $40
billion of mortgage bonds per month in a third round of so
called quantitative easing, or QE3, until the jobs market shows
“sustained improvement.” The Fed is mandated to maintain  price
stability  and full employment.  Dollar Index  Intercontinental Exchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, tracking the
greenback against six major U.S. trading partners, declined to
78.601 on Sept. 14, the lowest since February.  “The Fed’s action to take their dual mandate that much
more seriously in pursuit of additional measures was enormous,”
 Alan Ruskin , global head of Group-of-10 foreign-exchange
strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in  New York , said in a telephone
interview. “It was one of the more substantive moves I’ve seen
from the Fed in the last 30 years.”  Expansion of America’s gross domestic product is forecast
to slow to 2.1 percent in 2013 from 2.2 percent this year,
according to the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. The  unemployment  rate dropped to 8.1 percent in
August as Americans exited the workforce. The rate hasn’t been
less than 8 percent since January 2009.  ’Tail Risk’  “With Europe, we get talk about removing tail risks,” or
potential crisis, Noel Hebert, chief investment officer at
Bethlehem, Pennsylvania-based Concannon Wealth Management LLC,
which oversees about $250 million, said in a telephone
interview. “Bernanke actually opened up the pocket book again.
He’s actively expanding the money supply, debasing the
currency.”  Growing risk for Japan’s economy to shrink this quarter and
the failure of central bank loosening to dislodge deflation may
increase pressure for officials to ease at either of two
meetings next month.  Signs that a global slowdown is undermining a Japanese
recovery prompted the central bank to unexpectedly expand its
asset-purchase fund this month. BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa
and his colleagues gather to set policy twice next month, on
Oct. 4-5 and Oct. 30, with Deputy Governor Hirohide Yamaguchi
saying last week that the bank will take “bold steps” if
necessary.  “The growth data is disconcertingly weak,” Deutsche’s
Ruskin said. “Even the  Bank of Japan  tried to surprise”
markets through further easing, he said.  China  is scheduled to release its manufacturing purchasing
managers index tomorrow, with economists surveyed by  Bloomberg
News  predicting a reading of 50, the level that divides
contraction from expansion.  Fitch Ratings  lowered its forecast
for growth in China this year, citing a “deteriorating global
growth outlook.” The credit rating company predicts  China’s
economy  will expand 7.8 percent, compared with an earlier
estimate of 8 percent.  The  yuan  strengthened 1.1 percent this quarter to 6.2847
per dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net . 