-- Glaxo Two-Drug Melanoma Combo Slows Cancer in Study
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-09-29T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-29/glaxo-two-drug-melanoma-combo-slows-cancer-in-study.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s combination
of two experimental melanoma medicines slowed the cancer’s
progress longer than a single-drug treatment, a study found.  Patients taking Glaxo’s dabrafenib and trametinib together
delayed tumors from progressing for 9.4 months, compared with
5.8 months for patients taking dabrafenib alone, according to
the study of 162 patients. The trial was part of the second of
three phases of human testing usually required by regulators.  Dabrafenib works by blocking BRAF, a mutant gene that spurs
cancer-cell growth in about half of melanoma patients, while
trametinib thwarts a related protein called MEK, which helps
tumors resist an assault on BRAF. The study, funded by London-
based Glaxo, was released today at the  European Society for
Medical Oncology  meeting in Vienna and simultaneously published
in the New England Journal of Medicine.  “The BRAFi/MEKi combo will attain a dominant position in
the BRAF-mutant melanoma setting,”  Andrew Baum , an analyst at
Citigroup Inc. in  London , said in a report earlier this week.  The company has begun a  late-stage study  of the combination
therapy. On Aug. 3, Glaxo said it submitted the medicines
individually to regulators in the U.S. and  Europe  for approval.
If cleared for marketing, they would compete with Roche Holding
AG’s Zelboraf, a targeted therapy approved last year for sale in
the U.S.  The study tested two doses of trametinib. Among patients
who received both drugs at the higher dose, 41 percent hadn’t
progressed 12 months after treatment began, compared with 9
percent in the single-drug arm of the study.  Side Effects  In an early-stage study presented in May, patients taking
the two medicines together had a lower incidence of rash and
skin lesions than previously reported with  Roche (ROG) ’s Zelboraf.  Adding the MEK drug may reduce a signature side effect of
BRAF drugs like Zelboraf -- the development of non-melanoma skin
cancer -- while possibly boosting efficacy, according to Jeffrey
Weber, a study leader and oncologist at the H. Lee Moffitt
Cancer Center in Tampa,  Florida .  About 15 to 30 percent of melanoma patients treated with
Zelboraf and other BRAF inhibitors develop non-melanoma skin
cancers, scientists at the  Institute of Cancer Research  said in
an article published in the  New England Journal of Medicine  in
January. The drugs speed a type of skin malignancy known as
squamous-cell carcinoma in patients who may have gotten the
cancer anyway, they said.  Melanoma  will strike more than 76,000 Americans this year,
according to estimates from the  National Cancer Institute . While
patients with early stage disease respond well to treatment, the
 five-year survival  rate for those with cancer that has spread is
about 15 percent, according to the  American Cancer Society .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  