-- Iran’s Ahmadinejad Says Talks Will Progress After U.S. Election
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-09-30T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-29/iran-s-ahmadinejad-says-talks-will-progress-after-u-s-election.html
Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad said talks over his country’s development of
enriched uranium will be more productive after the U.S. election
and expressed optimism the two sides will “be able to take some
steps forward.”  “We have seen during many years that as we approach the
United States presidential election, no important decisions are
made,” Ahmadinejad said on CNN’s “Fareed Zakaria GPS”
program. “Following the election, certainly the atmosphere will
be much more stable, and important decisions can be made and
announced.”  Ahmadinejad, who is completing his second and last term as
president, said meetings over  Iran ’s nuclear program with the
five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council,
plus  Germany , will result in “a very important decision”
following the U.S. November election. Iran contends its nuclear
facilities are for peaceful civilian purposes.  “We have set forth proposals, we are holding dialogue,”
he said in the CNN interview, according to a transcript of the
program scheduled to air today. “We do hope to be able to take
some steps forward.”  U.S. President  Barack Obama , in Sept. 25 speech before the
General Assembly, said that time “is not unlimited” to reach a
diplomatic resolution and vowed that the U.S. “will do what we
must to prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon.”  ‘Hell to Pay’  Senator Richard Lugar of  Indiana , the top Republican on the
Senate Foreign Relations Committee, said Democrat Obama’s
efforts to work with U.S. allies and impose strict sanctions on
Iran is the correct policy. In an interview with Bloomberg
Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” Lugar said that
there “will be hell to pay” if those calling for war with Iran
are successful.  “The implications for the Israeli people here are very
severe,” said Luger, 80, who is leaving the Senate after 36
years following his defeat in a primary in May. “The idea of
moving with our allies, as many as we can find, on effective
sanctions on the country has been the right move.”  Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  has
criticized Obama’s position, saying the president hasn’t been
tough enough and that military action shouldn’t be ruled out.
Romney said he would seek an international indictment of
Ahmadinejad for incitement to genocide and would treat Iran’s
diplomats “like the pariah they are.”  Red Lines  Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, using a cartoon
drawing of a bomb, told the UN Sept. 27 that the international
community should impose “red lines” on Iran’s program to
prevent the country from building nuclear weapons.  Ahmadinejad said he wasn’t concerned that action by  Israel 
would alter Iranian policies. He likened any attacks to those by
terrorists who explode bombs or assassinate officials.  “Will the country be destroyed? No,” Ahmadinejad said.
“We see the Zionist regime at the same level of the bombers and
criminals and the terrorists. Even if they do something,
hypothetically, it will not affect us fundamentally.”  Ahmadinejad denied reports that the Iranian economy is
faltering and said the sanctions haven’t hurt foreign trade.  “Many of the European companies are currently, as we
speak, conducting trade with us,” he said. “Some of them do it
in hiding. They do secretly, but they do conduct that trade. You
hear some news and you believe that Iran’s economy is now in
chaos. It is not so.”  Iran’s Economy  Foreign investment in Iran jumped 83 percent to $6.8
billion in the first half of the current Iranian year, which
began on March 20, the Tehran Times reported Sept. 27, citing
Deputy Economy Minister Behrouz Alishiri.  Iran’s Central Bank on Sept. 5 said the country’s inflation
rate was 23.5 percent in the month that ended Aug. 20.
Parliament Speaker Ali Larijani was quoted by Shargh newspaper
Sept. 26 as saying it was actually 29 percent.  Iran‘s currency, the rial, hit a record low against the
U.S. dollar yesterday in the country‘s capital, Tehran, where
the street traders were selling dollars at 28,100 rials, the
state-Run Mehr news agency reported.  On  Syria , Ahmadinejad again refused to call on President
Bashar al-Assad to step down. He said a group whose members
include representatives from  Egypt ,  Turkey , Iran and Saudi
Arabia could help negotiate a peace, including setting up a
national election.  Syrian troops are battling with rebels in the commercial
hub of Aleppo, the country’s largest city. International efforts
to end the 18-month conflict have failed to stop the violence as
rebels continue the fight to overthrow Assad that began March of
last year. The conflict has killed 30,000 people, according to
estimates by the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, an
opposition group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  