-- NBA Union Chief Got 25% Raise While Players Missed Pay
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2012-10-01T04:00:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-29/nba-union-leader-billy-hunter-gets-600-000-raise-to-3-million.html
Billy Hunter  made $3 million in
salary this past year as executive director of the National
Basketball Players Association, a 25 percent increase over what
he earned while leading the union through a season-shortening
lockout that resulted in missed paychecks for the organization’s
members.  Hunter’s salary was disclosed in the association’s annual
filing with the U.S. Labor Department, which was made available
on Sept. 29.  National Football League Players Association Executive
Director  DeMaurice Smith  was paid $1.38 million this past
season, though players also awarded him a $1 million bonus after
he negotiated a new 10-year labor contract that ended a lockout
before games were missed.  Michael Weiner , the leader of the
Major League Baseball Players’ Association, made $1 million.  “If I’m a rank and file member of this union I’ve got to
ask myself -- Is Billy really worth three times the guy at
MLBPA?”  Paul Swangard , managing director of the Warsaw Sports
Marketing Center at the University of  Oregon , said in an e-mail.
“With legitimate questions swirling about whether the NBPA has
become Hunter Family Inc., Billy should be focused on clearing
his name, not padding his paycheck.”  The salary disclosure comes as the union is being
investigated by the U.S. Attorney’s Office in  Manhattan .
Authorities began the probe in April after union President  Derek Fisher  asked for independent reviews of the association’s
finances and business practices.  Erode Support  The raise might erode some player support for Hunter who,
unlike his football and hockey counterparts, drew a salary
during the work stoppage. The regular season was cut to 66 games
from the usual 82.  Hunter’s decision to be paid during the lockout surprised
 Miami Heat  forward  Shane Battier , who had asked the union leader
during one player meeting if he would forgo paychecks during the
work stoppage.  “I thought it was a great opportunity to unite and inspire
the union,” Battier said during an interview in May. “It was a
golden opportunity to unite the group, to prove that we were all
in this together. Unfortunately, he didn’t share those views.”  Hockey Union  Don Fehr, head of the National Hockey League Players
Association, whose members are currently being locked out, told
the  Canadian Press  this month that he wouldn’t draw a salary
during the labor standoff.  “It’s both a measure of solidarity and uniformity of
interest,” Fehr was quoted as saying. “You want the players to
understand you’re in the same boat they are. You don’t have
interests different than they do. We think it’s important.”  The hockey union is based in Toronto and doesn’t have to
file disclosures with the U.S. government. Smith, of the
football union, also took no salary during the NFL lockout,
which was settled before paychecks or games were missed.  The NBA union appointed a six-member special committee that
consists of player representatives and executive committee
members to oversee an internal inquiry that will include a
financial audit.  The special committee retained Theodore V. Wells, Jr. and
the New York  law firm  of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton &
Garrison to conduct the inquiry. Lisa Green, a spokeswoman for
the firm, declined to comment when asked for a completion date
for the probe.  Hunter, 69, said in a text message that he wouldn’t comment
until the inquiry was finished.  Nepotism Complaint  Fisher had complained to executive committee members about
nepotism at the union, which represents about 450 players.
Fisher didn’t sign the LM-2, as the annual filing is known. It
was signed by Hunter and union treasurer  James Jones  of the
Miami Heat.  Jamie Wior, a spokeswoman for Fisher, didn’t respond to an
e-mail seeking comment on Hunter’s salary. Jones didn’t respond
to an e-mail or message left on his mobile phone.  Hunter has a daughter and daughter-in-law on staff at the
New York-based association. Another daughter is special counsel
at a law firm used by the union, and Hunter’s son is a principal
at a financial planning and investment firm that advises the
organization on investments and runs its financial awareness
program for players.  Qualified Workers  Hunter has said his family members are qualified and, in
most cases, underpaid by market standards.  Hunter’s daughter, Robyn, the union’s director of player
benefits, was paid $89,695, the filing shows, about $7,000 more
than last year. Megan Inaba, Hunter’s daughter-in-law and the
director of special events, received $167,100, about $6,000
less.  The law firm Steptoe & Johnson, which employs Hunter’s
daughter Alexis and which assisted during labor talks, was paid
about $1.37 million, according to the filing. Dewey & Leboeuf,
the former firm of outside counsel  Jeff Kessler , was paid about
$1.3 million.  Hunter’s son, Todd, is a partner at Prim Capital Corp., a
Cleveland-based firm that was paid $595,000, about $18,000 more
than last year.  Hunter took over as executive director in 1996. A former
National Football League player, he was the U.S. Attorney for
the Northern District of  California  from 1977-84.  Retired player Jerome Williams, a former member of the
union’s executive committee, in a telephone interview said any
player surprised by Hunter’s salary or raise needs to be more
involved in the process.  “You have to educate yourself, to be able to reference
whether what he’s getting or what he’s doing is outside of the
norm,” Williams said. “You have to say to yourself, ‘What are
we doing that others aren’t?’ The players are the ones who vote.
Point any fingers back at yourself.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in  New York  at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  