-- Treasuries Rise a Second Quarter Amid Growth Pessimism
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-09-29T04:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-29/treasuries-rise-a-second-quarter-amid-growth-pessimism.html
Treasuries rose for the second
straight quarter, bolstered by their longest rally since 2008,
as concern global growth is slowing and Europe’s debt crisis is
worsening stoked demand for the haven of  U.S. government debt .  Gains were tempered, with 10-year yields rising from a
record low, as added stimulus from the  European Central Bank  and
the  Federal Reserve  encouraged risk appetite. Stocks surged
before falling for the past two weeks as U.S. data showed a weak
economy and American and European leaders struggled over ways to
pay their nations’ debt. A report next week may show the U.S.
added less than half as many jobs in September as in January.  “The economy is drifting into a deeper and deeper malaise,
and that has supported the Treasury market,” said  Christopher Sullivan , who oversees $2 billion as chief investment officer at
United Nations Federal Credit Union in  New York . “We’ve had a
whole lot of monetary expansion, but countering that has been
political inactivity globally along with no sign of inflation.”  Treasuries returned 0.6 percent this quarter, according to
the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Treasury Master index. They
gained 3 percent from April through June after losing 1.3
percent in the first quarter. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
rose 6.4 percent this quarter, including reinvested dividends.
It declined 2.8 percent from April through June.  Ten-year notes  yielded 1.63 percent yesterday in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices, from 1.65 at the end
of June. They reached a record low 1.379 percent on July 25
before climbing to a four-month high of 1.89 percent on Sept.
14, the day after the Fed announced its latest stimulus effort,
and then declining.  Below Inflation  The benchmark yield is seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, below the 1.7 percent annual rate of inflation
after dropping below that level on Sept. 25 for the first time
in two weeks.  Thirty-year bond  yields rose seven basis points to 2.82
percent this quarter. They touched 2.4405 percent on July 26,
the lowest on record, and increased to as high as 3.12 percent,
also the most since May, on Sept. 19.  “Treasuries will continue to be supported in an ongoing
risk environment,”  Padhraic Garvey , head of developed market
debt at ING Bank NV in Amsterdam, said yesterday. “Growth
remains weak, and the Fed is likely to continue with its easy
monetary policy. Treasuries are also reactive to the problem in
Europe. Yields will stay low.”  Jobs Market  Underpinning demand for Treasuries in the U.S. have been a
stagnant labor market and slowing economic growth. The
 unemployment rate  has been stuck above 8 percent for 43 straight
months and employers added 96,000 jobs in August, versus 275,000
in January, Labor Department data showed on Sept. 7. Payrolls
increased by 115,000 in September, a Bloomberg News survey
forecast before the department issues the report Oct. 5.  Gross domestic product growth slowed to an annual 1.3
percent in the second quarter, the Commerce Department said
Sept. 27, from 4.1 percent from October through December 2011.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , speaking Aug. 31 at a
conference in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , called the jobs picture “a
grave concern.” He also said the nation’s “fiscal cliff” clouds
the economic outlook. He was referring to tax increases and
automatic spending cuts of $1.2 trillion over a decade set to
begin if Congress fails to agree by Dec. 31 on ways to reduce
the  budget deficit .  Quantitative Easing  The U.S. central bank announced Sept. 13 it would buy $40
billion of mortgage debt a month in a third round of
quantitative easing to boost growth and lower unemployment. It
said it would continue the purchases until the recovery is well-
established, and keep its benchmark  interest rate  at virtually
zero into 2015.  Stocks surged, with the  S&P 500   closing  the next day at the
highest level since 2007. It has fallen 1.7 percent since then.  Yields on U.S. government securities climbed to four-month
highs on speculation inflation would increase and concern the
Fed wasn’t buying more Treasuries. They recovered their losses,
with 10-year yields falling last week below their 1.76 percent
closing level the day before the Fed announcement.  The five-year, five-year forward  break-even  rate, a measure
the Fed uses to help guide monetary policy, was 2.68 percent on
Sept. 26, down from a 13-month high of 2.88 percent on Sept. 14.
The 10-year average is 2.75 percent.  “As bad as things have been here, they are much worse in
Europe,”  Michael Cloherty , head of U.S.  interest-rate  strategy
at Royal Bank of Canada’s  RBC Capital Markets  in New York, one
of 21 primary dealers that with the Fed, said Sept. 24. He spoke
in an interview on  Bloomberg Radio  with  Tom Keene   and Ken Prewitt. “While yields here are still very low, there’s still
this safety bid around the world.”  ECB Plan  The euro area economy may shrink by 0.5 percent this year,
compared with an average of 1.27 percent growth in the Group of
10 developed nations, surveys of economists by Bloomberg show.  Treasuries declined Sept. 6 as investors sought higher-
yielding assets as the ECB announced a program to buy euro-area
 government bonds  to contain the bloc’s debt crisis, now in its
third year. Bank President  Mario Draghi  announced the unlimited-
purchase plan to regain control of interest rates in the region.  Bonds dropped Sept. 27 for the first time in nine days,
snapping their longest  rally  since December 2008, amid optimism
Spain was moving closer to meeting budget-deficit targets.  Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s cabinet approved a
tax on lottery winnings and a cut in ministries’ spending to
shrink the euro area’s third-biggest budget deficit.  Demonstrators in Spain and Greece protesting budget cuts
clashed with police this week.  Net Longs  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators trimmed
their net-long position in 10-year note futures in the week
ended Sept. 25, according to U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data.  Speculative long positions, or bets prices will rise,
outnumbered short positions by 83,526 contracts on the Chicago
Board of Trade. Net-long positions fell by 38,910 contracts, or
32 percent, from a week earlier, the Washington-based commission
said in its Commitments of Traders report. They reached 122,436
a week earlier, the most since March 2008.  Ten-year yields will fall to a record 1.35 percent by Dec.
31,  Carl Lantz , head of interest-rate strategy at the primary
dealer Credit Suisse Group AG, wrote in a report Sept. 27.  The Fed may begin next year with a monthly buying pace of
$100 billion in securities, made up of $60 billion of Treasuries
and $40 billion of mortgage bonds, Lantz wrote. It may also drop
its offsetting sales of shorter-maturity debt, he said.  “Yields can, and will, fall,” Lantz wrote.  A Bloomberg survey of economists with the most recent
projections given the heaviest weightings predicts the 10-year
note yield will reach 1.78 percent by Dec. 31.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  