-- Saudi Shares Fall on Quarterly Results Outlook, Global Economy
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-09-29T13:45:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-29/saudi-shares-fall-on-quarterly-results-outlook-global-economy.html
Shares in Saudi Arabia declined to
the lowest in two months ahead of quarterly company financial
results and on concern that Europe’s debt crisis is worsening.  Al-Rajhi Bank (RJHI) , the kingdom’s largest lender by market
value, dropped for a fourth day, while  Samba Financial Group (SAMBA) 
fell to the lowest since July 25.  National Industrialization Co. (NIC) 
slipped the most since June 2. The Tadawul All Share Index
retreated 1 percent to 6,807.71, the lowest since July 29, at
the 3:30 p.m. close in in  Riyadh . Saudi companies start
reporting third-quarter results this week.  “We expect a weaker morning session as third-quarter
results weigh on investors’ minds,” Asim Bukhtiar, head of
research at Riyad Capital, said in an e-mail. “Subdued
international sentiment will guide local direction.”  Global stocks fell after data during the week showed the
 U.S. economy  grew 1.3 percent in the second quarter, less than
previously estimated, while monthly U.S. business activity
unexpectedly contracted for the first time in three years.
 China ’s manufacturers and retailers are less optimistic about
sales than they were three months ago and are cutting jobs,
according to a survey.  European leaders have clashed on ways to stem the region’s
debt crisis. The Bank of  Spain  said the economy kept falling at
a “significant pace” in the third quarter, and the government
announced its fifth austerity package in what may be a move to
head off tougher conditions demanded as part of a potential
European bailout.  Al-Rajhi lost 0.7 percent to 71 riyals, the lowest level
since June 6, while Samba dropped 0.7 percent to 44.5 riyals.
Al-Rajhi’s  third-quarter  profit may climb 7 percent, according
to the mean estimate of three analysts on Bloomberg, after
posting a 14 percent increase in the second quarter. Samba’s
profit for the period may remain unchanged after a 5 percent
increase in the second quarter, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Mobile Telecommunications Co. of  Saudi Arabia , also known
as Zain Saudi, dropped 6.1 percent to the lowest since December.
The company said it obtained a two-month extension on a 9.75
billion-riyal ($2.6 billion) Islamic loan, the second extension
on the facility, and that it expects to complete a long-term
financing agreement.  Saudi Arabia’s stock exchange is the only Persian Gulf
bourse operating on Saturdays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  