-- Spitzer Wins Dismissal of Ex-Marsh Executive’s Lawsuit
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-09-29T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-29/spitzer-wins-dismissal-of-ex-marsh-executive-s-lawsuit-1-.html
Eliot Spitzer , the former New York
governor, won dismissal of a lawsuit claiming he defamed a
former  Marsh & McLennan Cos. (MMC)  executive in an article he wrote
for the online magazine Slate.  U.S. District Judge Paul Oetken in Manhattan granted
Spitzer’s motion for judgment without a trial and dismissed the
libel suit by William Gilman. Gilman was seeking $60 million in
damages.  The reasons for yesterday’s ruling will be set forth in a
forthcoming memorandum of opinion, Oetken said in his order. The
judge also granted Gilman’s request to dismiss Spitzer’s
counterclaim that the lawsuit violated New York’s law against
so-called strategic lawsuits against public participation, also
known as SLAPPs.  Gilman, who worked at Marsh from 1976 to 2004, was indicted
in 2005 after Spitzer, then  New York ’s attorney general,
investigated insurance-industry practices. Gilman and other
executives were accused of a conspiracy to fix prices and rig
bids on insurance contracts. The state had filed a bid-rigging
lawsuit against Marsh in 2004.  After an 11-month trial, New York Supreme Court Justice
James Yates found Gilman and co-defendant Edward McNenney guilty
of one count of restraint of trade and competition. In 2010,
Yates vacated that verdict after ruling that certain evidence
wasn’t disclosed by the prosecutors to the defense.  Fees, Kickbacks  In August 2010, the Wall Street Journal published an
editorial critical of Spitzer’s investigation of Marsh. In
response, Spitzer wrote the piece for  Slate  the same month,
noting that the company had agreed to pay $850 million to
customers for reimbursements of premiums in connection with the
investigation. He also said that unidentified Marsh executives
had “pocketed” increased fees and kickbacks.  Gilman sued Spitzer and Slate Group LLC in August 2011.
Slate is owned by  Washington Post Co. (WPO)   “Mr. Spitzer indicates that Mr. Gilman is guilty of
crimes, even crimes he was never accused of, despite the fact
that his conviction has been vacated,” Gilman’s lawyers said in
the complaint. Although Spitzer didn’t name him in the article,
Gilman’s lawyers said, “It is clear from the context that Mr.
Spitzer is referring to Mr. Gilman.”  Spitzer claimed that the article didn’t libel Gilman and
that it was accurate and protected by the First Amendment to the
U.S. Constitution.  ‘Substantially Accurate’  “Mr. Spitzer’s one-sentence summary of the Marsh-related
cases his office initiated was substantially accurate as regards
the contour of the criminal charge against Mr. Gilman that was
pending in August 2010 when the piece was published,” Spitzer’s
lawyers said in court papers.  In January 2011, New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman declined to retry Gilman and McNenney and dismissed
the charges against them.  Jeffrey Liddle, a lawyer for Gilman, and Lee Levine, a
lawyer for Spitzer, didn’t immediately return calls to their
offices after regular business hours yesterday seeking comment
on the ruling.  The case is Gilman v. Spitzer, 11-05843, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  