-- Sydney Beats Hawthorn to Win Second Australian Football Title
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-09-29T08:49:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-29/sydney-beats-hawthorn-to-win-australian-football-league-title.html
The Sydney Swans beat the Hawthorn
Hawks by 10 points in the Australian Football League grand final
to win their second premiership title.  The Swans were 28 points up early in the third quarter,
fell 12 behind during the final term, then prevailed 14.7 (91)
to 11.15 (81) in front of a crowd of 99,683 at the Melbourne
Cricket Ground. Nick Malceski kicked Sydney’s first and last
goals, sending his team 10 points clear with a snap shot 34
seconds from the end.  “It was two teams having a real crack and momentum changed
a lot of the way,” Swans coach John Longmire said in a
televised interview with  Australia ’s Seven Network. “In the end
we had our nose in front when the siren went.”  The  Swans , who won three Victorian Football League
championships as South Melbourne before relocating to
Australia’s biggest city in 1982, secured Sydney’s first AFL
title in 2005. Today’s victory broke a five-year winning streak
of teams from Victoria state, the game’s birthplace.  Melbourne-based Hawthorn, which finished atop the regular-
season standings, had been seeking its second premiership in
five seasons after upsetting defending champion Geelong in the
2008 grand final.  Swans midfielder Ryan O’Keefe won the Norm Smith Medal as
the most valuable player after making 28 disposals and a 15
tackles in a game of goal bursts and momentum shifts.  “To the Hawks credit they came at us and came at us,”
O’Keefe told the Seven Network. “We stuck at it. We don’t rely
on one or two guys, we all just crack in.”  Turnarounds  Sydney kicked six straight goals and held the Hawks to just
one behind in the second quarter to turn a 19-point deficit into
a 16-point lead at half time.  Hawthorn booted five straight goals in the third term to
get back in front before Jarrad McVeigh goaled to give Sydney a
one-point advantage at the final break.  The Hawks got the first two goals of the last quarter to go
11 points up, though Swans Dan Hannebery, Kieren Jack, Adam Goodes and Malceski kicked the final four six-pointers to seal
the victory.  Malceski and Jack were among five Sydney players to boot a
pair of goals, while Hawks forward Lance Franklin kicked a game-
high three goals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  