-- Syria Fights for Aleppo as Rebels Seek ‘Decisive Battle’
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-09-29T14:02:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-29/syria-forces-fight-for-aleppo-as-rebels-seek-decisive-battle-.html
Syrian troops loyal to President
Bashar al-Assad fought with rebels in the commercial hub of
Aleppo after insurgents started what they said was a “decisive
battle” to take the country’s largest city.  Syrian forces killed 22 “armed terrorists” and injured
others in the Tal al-Zarazir neighborhood in the city of 3
million people, the state-run  Syrian Arab News Agency  reported
today. The main insurgent force in the city, the Tawheed
Brigade, said on its Facebook page yesterday its fighters
entered the Sheikh Maqsoud neighborhood. Bloomberg was unable to
independently verify the legitimacy of the Facebook posting.  International efforts to end the 18-month conflict have
failed to stop the violence as rebels continue the fight to
overthrow Assad since March last year. The conflict has killed
30,000 people, according to estimates by the Syrian Observatory
for  Human Rights , an opposition group.  Fighting has been deadlocked in Aleppo since rebels pushed
into the city in July. Government forces have resorted to heavy
weaponry, including attack aircraft, helicopter gunships and
artillery to dislodge rebels from their positions.  At least 41 people were killed in  Syria  today, including 23
in Damascus and its suburbs and five in Aleppo, according to the
Local Coordination Committees in Syria. Government forces
stormed several suburbs of the capital, Damascus, and pressed
their attacks on other areas of the country, the U.K.-based
observatory said in an e-mailed statement. Eighteen government
soldiers were killed during fighting in Aleppo, Damascus and
Deir Ezzor, it said.  Conflict Expands  “This conflict continues to expand and deepen the
humanitarian disaster,”  Saudi Arabia ’s Deputy Foreign Minister
Prince Abdul Aziz bin Abdullah said yesterday during an address
to the  United Nations . “All that is happening amidst a
noticeable international community’s failure due to the division
in the  Security Council .”  The UN Human Rights Council yesterday approved extending
the mission of its independent commission of inquiry. An EU
statement called on Syrian authorities to “immediately put an
end to the violence and condemned in the strongest terms the
gross human-rights violations by the Syrian authorities which
may amount to crimes against humanity.”  U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  told a Washington news
conference that intelligence suggests Assad’s government has
moved some of its chemical weapons, although the U.S. believes
the main sites remain secure, the  Associated Press  reported
yesterday. Panetta said he doesn’t have enough information to
confirm if any of the moves suggest that some of the material
has been acquired by rebels, AP reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  