-- White House Says Workers Shouldn't Get Budget-Cut Notices
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-09-29T00:50:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-29/white-house-says-workers-shouldn-t-get-budget-cut-notices.html
President  Barack Obama ’s
administration said government contractors affected by looming
across-the-board budget cuts shouldn’t issue blanket 60-day
notices to workers who might lose their jobs.  The Office of Management and Budget said today that the
government will cover legal and compensation costs if $109
billion in defense and domestic cuts take effect in January and
contractors are held liable in court for not giving enough
notice under the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification
Act.  “Any resulting employee compensation costs for WARN Act
liability as determined by a court, as well as attorneys’ fees
and other litigation costs (irrespective of litigation outcome),
would qualify as allowable costs and be covered by the
contracting agency, if otherwise reasonable and allocable,” the
budget office said in the guidance to federal agencies.  Companies led by Lockheed Martin Corp., the world’s largest
defense contractor, have said federal and state laws may require
them to issue notifications of potential job cuts before the
Nov. 6 election unless Obama and Congress act to avert automatic
defense reductions of $500 billion over a decade that would
start on Jan. 2.  Three Republicans on the Senate Armed Services Committee
said today’s directive puts “politics ahead of American
workers” by denying them the notifications, while also opening
the possibility that taxpayers will pay the tab if there are
WARN Act violations.  ‘Free Pass’  “Facing intense lobbying by defense companies and other
government contractors for financial protection if they agreed
not to issue WARN notices, the Obama administration is giving
contractors a free pass and will have potentially stuck the
taxpayers with a multi-billion dollar campaign contribution,”
said the senators,  John McCain  of  Arizona ,  Lindsey Graham  of
 South Carolina  and  Kelly Ayotte  of  New Hampshire .  The federal WARN Act, which became law in 1988, requires
most employers with 100 or more workers to give 60 days notice
of plant closings or “mass layoffs” -- labor cutbacks
affecting 500 or more workers, or at least 33 percent of the
workforce for companies with fewer than 500 employees.  The budget office’s directive effectively endorses guidance
by the U.S. Department of Labor, which in July told state
agencies that it would be “inappropriate” for companies to
send 60-day notices to their employees given the uncertainty
about whether the reductions will occur or which jobs will be
cut.  A partisan fight is building over the defense reductions.
Republicans say the cuts should be reversed, while Democrats say
added  tax revenue  should be part of any compromise. The cuts
known as sequestration stem from last year’s clash over raising
the debt limit. The automatic cuts were set in motion after
Congress and Obama failed to agree on a broad debt-reduction
package.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  