-- Xstrata-Glencore Said to Resolve Takeover Offer Before Deadline
-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2012-09-29T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-29/xstrata-glencore-said-to-resolve-takeover-offer-before-deadline.html
Xstrata Plc (XTA)  is set to recommend
shareholders vote in favor of a 20.5 billion-pound ($33 billion)
sweetened takeover offer by  Glencore (GLEN)  International Plc after
revising the voting structure and winning assurances it will
have a majority of the board.  Xstrata, the largest exporter of coal used by power
stations, will make changes to secure the loyalty of top
managers and balance investor demands, in order to create the
world’s fourth-largest mining company, according to a person
familiar with the deal, who asked not to be identified as the
talks are private.  Glencore earlier this month raised its offer to 3.05 of its
shares for each one in Xstrata from 2.8, after investors said
the original bid undervalued the Swiss mining company. The Baar,
Switzerland-based commodities trader invited Xstrata to propose
changes to the bonus package to ensure shareholder backing for
the year’s biggest takeover.  The retention payments total 144 million pounds, excluding
the 28.8 million pound-bonus for Xstrata Chief Executive Officer
 Mick Davis , who will not qualify to receive it, according to the
person close to the deal. Davis will receive a contractual
termination fee of about $13 million when he leaves, the person
said.  The person wouldn’t elaborate on the changes to the offer
before an official announcement, due tomorrow. The revised bid
stipulates that Davis lead the merged company before handing
over to Glencore counterpart Ivan Glasenberg within six months.  Spokesmen from Xstrata and Glencore declined to comment
late yesterday.  Merger Plan  According to Glencore’s original bid on Feb. 7, Xstrata
shareholders are required to cast their votes on the merger and
on the corporate governance structure, which includes the
retention bonuses. The merger plan requires 75 percent approval
of the shareholders, while the retention package can be passed
with 50 percent in favor. Both votes must pass for the deal to
proceed, according to the original offer.  Investors, including  Blackrock Inc. (BLK) , have asked the Xstrata
directors to name the executives who would receive the bonuses
and justify the payment to each individual, or make the vote
unconditional for the deal, while some major shareholders are
threatening to vote against the merger if the vote to retain the
key managers doesn’t remain conditional, according to the person
close to the deal and another person familiar with the talks,
who also declined to be named.  Xstrata has also received assurances from Glencore that one
of its executives will replace Davis on the combined board, the
first person close to the deal said. Xstrata will hold six seats
on the 11-member board.  Sweetened Bid  The talks, which were extended last week, are one of the
final stages in an almost eight-month effort by Glencore to seal
the deal.  The sweetened bid followed a threat by Qatar’s sovereign
wealth fund, Xstrata’s largest holder after Glencore, to block
the deal in the absence of a higher offer. Qatar Holding LLC
said in June that a bid of 3.25 shares would be “more
appropriate.” As little as 16.5 percent of investors can
prevent the merger because Glencore can’t vote with its 34
percent stake.  The combination of the two commodity companies, five years
in the making, would couple Glencore’s global trading operations
with Xstrata’s coal, copper, and zinc mines.  A successful acquisition by Glencore at current share
prices would be the second-largest in the  mining industry ,
behind Rio Tinto Group’s $38 billion purchase of  Canada ’s Alcan
Inc. in 2007. The volume of announced takeovers of mining
companies rose to $80.2 billion last year, the highest since
2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, as commodity
demand in developing nations and the deteriorating quality of
mineral reserves pushed producers to seek greater economies of
scale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  