-- 
Los Angeles Mayor Tests ‘Third Rail’ in Call for Proposition 13 Changes

-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 
2011-08-17T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/l-a-mayor-calls-for-8b-property-tax-hike.html
Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa proposed dismantling  California ’s Proposition 13,
which helped begin a nationwide anti-tax movement, in favor of a
“grand bargain” that would boost levies on business property.  The Democrat who leads California’s largest city called on
Governor  Jerry Brown  not to shrink from making sweeping changes
in state tax laws that Villaraigosa, 58, said could produce as
much as $36 billion a year in new revenue.  Villaraigosa urged the removal of Proposition 13’s limits
on commercial-property assessments while retaining its cap for
homes. The mayor said boosting  tax revenue  in the most-populous
state would shore up the  University of California  system,
promote budget stability and restore public-school funds.  “It’s time to address the unfairness inherent in a system
that allows Wall Street hedge-fund managers to devise complex
real-estate investment trusts that give the super-rich a free
pass on taxes every ordinary homeowner in California has to
pay,” Villaraigosa said in a speech at the Sacramento Press
Club. “Let’s apply, as an idea, Proposition 13’s protections to
homeowners and homeowners alone.”  The 1978 referendum, which allows unlimited reassessments
for tax purposes only when property is sold, excludes some
commercial transactions in real-estate investment trusts, or
REITs, according to the mayor.  Easier Overrides  Lower vote thresholds should apply when local communities
seek to raise taxes and fees, Villaraigosa said, calling for
passage of such measures by a simple majority, not the two-
thirds required now. He also proposed extending the state’s 7.25
percent sales tax to service providers such as lawyers.  Proposition 13 , which passed with 65 percent of the vote,
inspired similar measures in  Massachusetts ,  New York  and  New
Jersey . It restricts tax assessments to 1 percent of a
property’s purchase price, plus annual increases of no more than
2 percent, even if market values rise at a much faster pace.  Before its passage, cities, counties and school districts
could set their own rates. In the first year under the law,
property tax collections in California fell 52 percent to $4.9
billion from $10.3 billion in 1978, according to state data.  Since it became law, California public schools have fallen
from seventh place among states to 27th in per-pupil spending,
according to the U.S. Census Bureau, as the law curbed receipts
from the biggest traditional source of education money.  Broadly Popular Law  The measure remains broadly popular, said Terry
Christensen, who teaches politics at San Jose State University.
Only by promising to keep residential property caps can
Villaraigosa hope to persuade the public to support his
proposal, Christensen said by telephone.  “You’ve heard it referred to as the Third Rail of
California politics,” he said. “It’s still a very live rail.
There’s a real knee-jerk reaction to any effort to change it.
This conversation is going to be a very tough sell for many
people.”  Brown, a 73-year-old Democrat who was governor when
Proposition 13 passed, hasn’t publicly embraced changes in the
measure.  Gil Duran , a spokesman, declined to comment on the
details of the mayor’s proposals.  “We appreciate the mayor adding his voice to the important
debate about the future of California,” Duran said by e-mail.  The Howard Jarvis Taxpayers Association, named after
Proposition 13’s late author, opposes exempting businesses from
its limits, said Jon Coupal, the group’s president.  Struggling Businesses  “Right now small businesses and large businesses are
struggling” in California, Coupal told reporters after
Villaraigosa’s speech. “We have an effective  unemployment rate 
above 20 percent. There is a correlation between taxes and the
regulatory climate and economic development.”  Increasing taxes on commercial property would hurt small
businesses disproportionately, said Rex Hime, president and
chief executive officer of the California Business Properties
Association, which represents owners and management companies.  “If anything homeowners have had an advantage in this
marketplace,” Hime said by telephone. “Home values skyrocketed
faster than everything else. Proposition 13 has created a
certainty in terms of tax values.”  “Pension funds, insurance companies,  retirement plans  are
invested in commercial property,” Hime said. “To undercut that
has a significant economic impact.”  Villaraigosa, in his second term as mayor, also suggested
reducing or eliminating levies “that don’t make economic
sense.” He proposed credits for companies that hire workers;
eliminating the state’s  corporation tax , which is as high as
10.84 percent for banks; and studying an 11 percent across-the-
board cut in income taxes. Villaraigosa also backed changes in
pensions for California’s public employees.  “We can’t do it piecemeal,” he said in an interview after
the speech. “We have to be bold.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  