-- 
ACLU Sues Kansas Challenging State’s Ban on Abortion Insurance Coverage

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-08-16T17:07:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/aclu-sues-kansas-challenging-state-s-ban-on-abortion-insurance-coverage.html
A Kansas law barring insurance
companies from including abortion coverage in their
comprehensive plans is unconstitutional, the  American Civil
Liberties Union  claimed in a lawsuit.  The ACLU of Kansas and Western Missouri today asked for a
court order blocking the measure signed by Republican Governor
 Sam Brownback , which took effect July 1, arguing that it singles
out women for deprivation of needed coverage.  “The act was passed with the purpose of inhibiting women
from accessing and paying for abortion care,” according to the
group’s complaint. The measure contains an exception for
procedures necessary to save the life of the mother.  Thirteen states have enacted laws that prohibit some or all
insurance policies from covering abortion care since 2010,
according to the civil liberties organization. Today’s suit is
the first challenge to one of them, the ACLU said.  Claiming violations of a woman’s right to due process and
equal protection under the law, the ACLU is seeking a
declaration that the law is unconstitutional and an order
blocking its enforcement.  Jeff Wagaman, a spokesman for  Kansas  Attorney General Derek Schmidt, didn’t immediately respond to voice and e-mail messages
seeking comment on the lawsuit.  Planned Parenthood  of Kansas and Mid-Missouri earlier
challenged a measure rendering it ineligible for federal
funding, claiming the legislation was intended to punish it for
support of abortion rights.  U.S. District Judge J. Thomas Marten in  Kansas City ,
Kansas, on Aug. 1 granted Planned Parenthood an order blocking
the defunding measure. The state is seeking reversal of the
order at the U.S. appeals court in Denver.  The case is American Civil Liberties Union of Kansas and
Western Missouri v. Praeger, 2:11-cv-02462, U.S. District Court,
District of Kansas (Kansas City).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in  Chicago 
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 