-- 
Madoff Trustee Wins Appeals Court Ruling on Calculating Investors’ Losses

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-08-16T20:21:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/madoff-trustee-wins-appeals-court-ruling-on-calculating-investors-losses.html
The trustee liquidating Bernard L. Madoff’s former firm won an appeals court ruling that affirmed
his method of determining which investors can recover money lost
in the  Ponzi scheme .  The federal appeals court in New York said today that
trustee Irving Picard can calculate losses by subtracting the
amount withdrawn from an investor’s account from the total
placed with Madoff, the so-called net investment method.  A group of Madoff victims urged the court to require Picard
to use their final account statements, reflecting fictitious
profits on money Madoff never invested, to determine losses.
Today’s ruling limits the number of victims who can claim money
from the fund Picard oversees and reduces the amount of many
eligible claims.  “Mr. Picard’s selection of the net investment method was
more consistent with the statutory definition of ‘net equity’
than any other method advocated by the parties or perceived by
this court,” Chief U.S. Circuit Judge Dennis Jacobs wrote in
the opinion.  Picard has sued investors, banks and others he claims
profited from Madoff or should have known of his fraud, seeking
a total of about $100 billion. He has raised more than $8.6
billion, or almost half the $17.3 billion in principal he
calculates investors lost in the fraud, including a $1 billion
settlement with hedge-fund firm Tremont Group Holdings Inc.,
which was announced July 28.  Money From Accounts  Madoff investors who removed more from their accounts than
they invested, including the owners of the  New York  Mets
baseball team, stand to lose from today’s ruling. Picard has
claimed $300 million in fictitious profits from a group of
defendants tied to Mets owners  Fred Wilpon  and Saul Katz. He is
also seeking $700 million in principal from Wilpon and Katz,
claiming they should have known Madoff was running a fraud.  The Mets owners are seeking to have Picard’s suit
dismissed.  Karen Wagner, a lawyer for Wilpon and Katz, didn’t
immediately return calls seeking comment on the ruling.  Picard’s loss calculation method also reduces the amount of
payouts to Madoff investors by the Securities Investor
Protection Corp., which reimburses defrauded investors up to
$500,000 per account. Picard represents SIPC.  ‘Investor Confidence’  “The Second Circuit’s ruling will destroy investor
confidence in the capital markets because the promise of SIPC
insurance is illusory,” said Helen Chaitman, a lawyer for many
Madoff victims. “The message to every American who invests in
the stock market is clear: Invest at your own risk and assume
that SIPC insurance does not exist.”  Ron Stein, president of the Network for Investor Action and
Protection, said in a statement that the decision is “another
blow to small investors who merely relied on the information
their broker gave them.”  Amanda Remus, a spokeswoman for Picard, said in a statement
that the trustee has “maintained all along that our definition
of net equity -- which is supported by longstanding precedents
in bankruptcy and securities laws -- is the fairest approach to
the determination of claims.”  Picard and his  law firm , Baker & Hostetler LLP, have
charged about $179 million for their work since Madoff’s Ponzi
scheme collapsed in 2008, according to court filings.  Madoff, 73, pleaded guilty in 2009 to orchestrating what
has been called the biggest Ponzi scheme in history. He’s in a
federal prison in  North Carolina , serving a 150-year sentence.  Final Statements  The court today agreed with Picard’s argument that
calculating losses based on investors’ final statements, issued
before the con man was arrested in December 2008, would allow
Madoff to dictate the winners and losers among his victims.  “Use of the last statement method in this case would have
the absurd effect of treating fictitious and arbitrarily
assigned paper profits as real and would give legal effect to
Madoff’s machinations,” Jacobs wrote.  The appeals court decision confirms that Picard’s method
“does the greatest good for the greatest number of Madoff
victims,” SIPC chairman Orlan Johnson said in a statement
today.  The case is In re Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities
LLC, 10-2378, 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 