-- 
Aegon Sells Guardian Life Unit for $449 Million to Cut Costs in Britain

-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 
2011-08-16T09:43:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/aegon-sells-life-insurance-unit-for-449-million-to-cut-costs-in-britain.html
Aegon NV (AGN) , the Dutch owner of
 Scottish Equitable , agreed to sell its U.K. Guardian life and
pension unit to private equity firm Cinven Ltd. for 275 million
pounds ($449 million) as it tries to cut costs in Britain.  The unit had a book value of 271 million pounds at the end
of June, The Hague-based insurer said in a statement today.
Aegon’s asset management unit will continue to manage Guardian’s
7.4 billion pounds in assets for Cinven. The business had been
closed to new clients since 2001.  The insurer is seeking to boost its return on capital in
the U.K. to as much as 10 percent by 2015 by cutting costs and
shifting capital to higher margin businesses. Aegon last week
said it was on track to reduce costs in the U.K. by 25 percent
by the end of the year. Since announcing the plan in June 2010,
the insurer has withdrawn from the bulk annuities market, closed
its employee benefits business and sold its third-party pensions
administration business in the U.K.  “The price received seems reasonable,”  Albert Ploegh , an
Amsterdam-based analyst at ING Groep NV said in a note to
clients. “The repositioning of the U.K. business should result
in a significant increase in profitability and cash flows.”  Aegon said the Guardian business’s embedded value, a
measure of the long-term profitability, was 322 million pounds
at the end of the second quarter, implying the book was sold for
a discount of about 15 percent. That compares to a typical
discount of 15 percent to 25 percent in sales of closed life
books, according to ING’s Ploegh.  ‘Committed’ to U.K.  Aegon slipped 1.2 percent to 3.16 euros as of 11:13 a.m. in
Amsterdam today, in line with a 1.3 percent drop in the 28-
company Bloomberg Europe 500 Insurance Index.  “Consistent with actions over the past three years to
dispose of, or run-off, certain businesses deemed non-core,
Aegon has concluded that managing the closed business of
Guardian companies no longer fits with our strategic
objectives,” Chief Financial Officer Jan Nooitgedagt said in
the statement. “We remain committed to the U.K.”  Leveraged buyout firms such as Cinven pool money from
investors to take over companies, financing their purchases
mostly with debt, with the intention of selling them later for a
profit. The firms seek to expand or improve performance at
companies they acquire before selling them, usually within five
years.  The firm, founded in 1977 by the Coal Pension Trustees
Services Ltd., said closed life books are an attractive
investment because they generate “robust long-term cash flows”
with limited risks. Cinven expects to increase returns by adding
other closed books as banks seek to sell insurance assets.  The acquisition gives Cinven “an attractive entry point
into the U.K. closed life market and a strong platform from
which to execute a consolidation strategy for the sector,” the
London-based private equity firm said in a separate statement.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  provided debt financing for the
acquisition, Cinven said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  