-- 
Afren, Premier, Faroe Among Top Oil Picks at RBS After Rout

-- B y   B r a d   M e r c h a n t
-- 
2011-08-16T11:24:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/afren-premier-faroe-among-top-oil-picks-at-rbs-after-rout.html
Afren Plc (AFR) ,  Premier Oil Plc (PMO)  and  Faroe
Petroleum Plc (FPM)  are among the top U.K. exploration stocks for
Royal Bank of Scotland Plc after the recent market rout.  Brent oil futures are down 7 percent, while the FTSE 350
Oil & Gas index has lost 11 percent, since concerns over
 Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis and the world economy intensified
at the end of July. Oil traded at $108.90 in London today.  Afren, an explorer focused on Africa, is down 24 percent
since the start of August. Premier, which has interests in the
U.K., Indonesia and Pakistan, has lost 13 percent while
Scotland’s Faroe has dropped 9.8 percent.  “We see many of the moves as irrational given Brent oil
prices remain above $100 a barrel and, on the whole, balance
sheets are in a more robust shape than they were in 2008,” RBS
analysts led by Phil Corbett wrote in a note today.  Other preferred stocks listed by RBS include Africa-focused
Ophir Energy Plc,  Rockhopper Exploration Plc (RKH) , whose Falkland
Islands discovery may be larger than previously thought, and
North Sea explorer Valiant Petroleum Plc.  Based on past experience, oil stocks could rebound if the
market stabilizes, Corbett said. Even so, a lack of “major
frontier’ exploration success this year and the absence of any
“high-profile” mergers and acquisitions have reduced investor
appetite, he wrote.  Cash on the balance sheet for Afren and Faroe rose 19
percent and more than 8-fold respectively from 2008 to 2010,
according to Bloomberg data.  Their debt-to-capital ratios declined from an average of 41
percent in 2008 to 16 percent at the end of last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brad Merchant in  London  at 
 bmerchant3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  