-- 
Aggregates Firms May Stifle Competition, U.K. Regulator Says

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-08-16T16:54:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/aggregates-companies-may-stifle-competition-u-k-regulator-says.html
The U.K. market for aggregates,
cement and ready-mix concrete used in construction may be
distorted and requires a full investigation by the  Competition
Commission , Britain’s antitrust regulator said.  The provisional decision follows a probe started last year
over concerns the biggest companies were barring smaller
competitors from the market and driving up prices, the U.K.
 Office of Fair Trading  said in a statement today on its website.
The five largest companies account for more than 90 percent of
cement sales in Britain, the OFT said.  “We are concerned that competition is not working well in
these markets,” the OFT said. The “problems are rooted in
underlying features of the market that could only be addressed
by the kinds of remedies available to the Competition
Commission.” The regulator said it would consult with affected
companies until Sept. 30 before making a final decision.  The British Aggregates Association trade group has said the
U.K. market is dominated by London-based  Anglo American Plc (AAL) ,
 Germany ’s  HeidelbergCement AG (HEI) , Switzerland’s  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN) , Paris-
based  Lafarge SA (LG)  and  Mexico ’s Cemex SAB. The Competition
Commission has authority to impose requirements that affect
markets, such as ordering divestments or creating restrictions
or new industry rules for companies to follow.  Competition in the industry is already effective, said a
spokesman for Anglo American, who declined to be identified in
line with company policy.  ‘Cooperating Fully’  “We are analyzing the content of the OFT report and will
continue to cooperate fully,” the spokesman said in an e-mail.  HeidelbergCement’s U.K. unit, Hanson, said in a statement
that the OFT’s report “does not reveal any infringement of
competition law” by the company.  “Cemex operates to the highest ethical standards, welcomes
and respects fair competition and will cooperate fully if there
is a referral to the  Competition Commission ,” Spokeswoman Marit
Meyer-Bell said today in a statement.  Lafarge spokeswoman Claire Mathieu didn’t return calls for
comment and Holcim spokesman Roland Walker couldn’t be reached
by phone.  The European Commission opened a probe into several cement
makers in December over possible competition breaches.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  