-- 
Agility Pleads Not Guilty to Fraud Tied to Contract to Supply U.S. Troops

-- B y   D a v i d   B e a s l e y   a n d   L a u r e n c e   V i e l e   D a v i d s o n
-- 
2011-08-16T17:12:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/agility-pleads-not-guilty-to-fraud-tied-to-contract-to-supply-u-s-troops.html
Agility (AGLTY) , the Kuwaiti storage and
logistics provider, pleaded not guilty to charges it defrauded
the U.S. government on a multibillion-dollar contract to feed
troops overseas.  Agility, also known as Public Warehousing Co., denied today
in federal court in Atlanta accusations that it filed false
invoices or conspired to pay premium prices to inflate its
profit. Prosecutors said Agility encouraged companies it did
business with to inflate costs through practices such as putting
hamburgers in unnecessarily expensive packaging.  “Agility welcomes the opportunity to clear its name by
having an impartial jury examine its work,” Agility said in a
statement. “In bringing this case, the  U.S. Department of
Justice  has criminalized what is, at most, a civil contract
dispute.”  The estimated cost of the U.S. contract with Agility at the
time it was signed was $4.66 billion, according to the November
2009 indictment. The final bill came to $8.6 billion, the
government said. Agility bought food and transported it to U.S.
soldiers in Kuwait and  Iraq , prosecutors said.  The investigation into the company and its suppliers is
continuing, federal prosecutors have said. Lawyers for both
sides declined to comment after today’s hearing.  ‘Dangerous Conditions’  The case against Agility had been slowed by the company’s
claim that it wasn’t properly notified of the charges it faced
in the U.S. Agility recently lost a federal appeals court
decision on that issue.  Agility maintains that it was open and transparent with the
government, which approved its prices, suppliers and business
practices for seven years and continued to do so after the
indictment, according to the statement.  “From 2003 to 2010, Agility operated under the most
dangerous conditions to provide American troops with plentiful,
high-quality food,” the company said in its statement. “No
military has ever been as well fed in a time of conflict.”  The case is U.S. v. Public Warehousing Co., 09-cr-490, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of  Georgia  (Atlanta).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Beasley at   dbeasley3@bloomberg.net ;
Laurence Viele Davidson at 
 lviele@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 