-- 
Pentagon Research Agency Faces U.S. Conflict-of-Interest Audit

-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 
2011-08-17T17:36:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/alleged-conflict-of-interest-triggers-audit-of-pentagon-agency.html
The U.S. Defense Department
Inspector General has begun an audit of contracting practices at
the Pentagon’s top research and development agency in response
to questions about a potential conflict of interest involving
the agency’s director.  The audit will “determine the adequacy” of the
contracting process used by the  Defense Advanced Research
Projects Agency , according to a letter from the inspector
general’s office to the Project on Government Oversight, a
nonprofit independent watchdog group.  The group raised concerns in May that the defense agency
had awarded about $1.75 million in contracts to RedXDefense LLC
since July 2009, when the company’s co-founder and former chief
executive, Regina Dugan, became director of the Pentagon agency.  Dugan’s continued financial and familial relationships with
RedXDefense “raise concerns as to whether DARPA effectively
prevents conflicts of interest,” wrote Danielle Brian,
executive director of the Project on Government Oversight, in a
May 9 letter requesting the audit.  The inspector general’s office agreed to conduct an audit
of all agency contracting and a separate review of contracts the
agency awarded to RedXDefense.  Utmost Scrutiny  “DARPA’s dealings with RedXDefense deserve the utmost
scrutiny, and we’re glad that the IG is taking this step to
protect the integrity of the federal contracting process,”
Brian said in a written statement. “Conflicts of interest --
even if they’re only perceived conflicts -- undermine the
public’s trust in government.”  RedXDefense spokeswoman Chris Haney said the company had no
comment. DARPA agency spokesman Eric Mazzacone declined to
comment on the audit, referring questions to the inspector
general’s office.  Dugan has recused herself from participating in any
decisions affecting RedXDefense, according to the Project on
Government Oversight’s letter requesting an audit. Even so, the
group said, “a recusal may not be enough to ensure integrity in
the contract process.”  Dugan’s 2010 financial disclosure form shows RedXDefense
owed the DARPA director $250,000 for a “loan/note,” and that
she held $151,000 to $305,000 in assets and income from
RedXDefense, according to the Project on Government Oversight.  The audit will examine how the agency awarded and managed
all contracts and grants for research and development projects
in fiscal years 2010 and 2011, according to a July 26 Pentagon
memo announcing the audit signed by Bruce Burton, deputy
assistant inspector general for acquisition and contract
management.  RedXDefense, based in Rockville,  Maryland , “is focused on
novel approaches to explosives detection and protection that
address the unique needs of the military, businesses and
homeland security,” according to the company’s Web site.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  