-- 
Hamburg Defies Euro Crisis as Asia, Russia Trading Boosts Container Port

-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 
2011-08-16T07:20:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/hamburg-defies-debt-crisis-as-asia-russia-trade-boosts-volume.html
Hamburg, home to Germany’s largest
container port, is defying the debt crisis that is hampering
growth elsewhere in the euro region as trade with eastern Europe
and Asia bolsters its resilience.  Container volumes at the Port of Hamburg jumped 17 percent
in the first half of this year to 4.3 million standard
containers, or TEU, as traffic to and from Russia, Poland,
Estonia, Latvia and  Lithuania  soared 51 percent and trade with
Asia climbed 13 percent, authorities said in a report yesterday.  Cargo volumes are growing in the port, on which 165,000
people rely for jobs, even as the wider German economy almost
stalled in the second quarter, data from the Federal Statistics
Office in Wiesbaden showed today. Hamburg, Germany’s richest city
and its second-largest after Berlin, is rebounding from the 
shipping slump of 2009 to sport the strongest economy of any 
German city and is set to expand another 19 percent by 2017, 
 Capital  magazine said in a report yesterday, citing researcher 
Feri.  “We are an indicator -- we can see a stable business and a
stable industry in  Germany  right now,” Hamburg Port Authority
Chief Executive Officer Jens Meier said in an interview
yesterday. “There will be some ups and downs but nothing as
huge as what we saw in 2009.”  Economic Slowdown  Germany has been powering euro-area growth as the debt
crisis curbs spending across the region. Gross domestic product,
adjusted for seasonal effects, rose 0.1 percent from the first
quarter, when it jumped a revised 1.3 percent, the Federal
Statistics Office said. Economists had forecast growth of 0.5
percent, according to the median of 33 estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey.  The worse-than-expected GDP data add to signs the region is
flirting with a renewed economic slump.  Hamburg handles about 25 percent of Germany’s sea-bound
exports. The passage of goods to and from  Asia , which accounts
for almost 60 percent of Hamburg’s container cargo volumes, is
boosting the port’s immunity to the German slowdown.  Container trade with northeast Asia jumped 14 percent in
the first half of this year, while traffic with southeast Asia
rose 6.6 percent. Container trade with the Baltic Sea countries
advanced 31 percent in the period.  The port, which gained market share from northern European
harbors such as Antwerp and Zeebruegge in the first half,
expects to increase cargo volumes by 10 percent this year, Meier
said.  Debt Crisis  The Port of Hamburg forecasts total cargo volumes to grow
between 8 and 10 percent this year to 131 million tons, while
container volumes are likely to expand by more than 10 percent
to about 9 million standard containers, it said yesterday.  The port doesn’t rule out that the debt crisis in  Europe 
and the debt problems in the U.S. may weigh on volumes, as the
development in the harbour is dependent on a continued positive
global business climate, it said.  The Hamburg Chamber of Commerce’s business climate index
stood at 123.3 in the second quarter, compared with 125.7 in the
first quarter, according to a report on July 13. The average for
the last three decades is 102.7, it said.  Some 40 percent of companies in the city regarded the
current business situation as “good” in the second quarter,
with only 9 percent describing it as “bad,” the Chamber said
at the time. About 22 percent of the companies plan to hire more
people, it said.  Hamburger Hafen und Logistik AG (HHFA) , which handles two thirds
of containers in Hamburg, said on Aug. 12 that it now expects
sales, earnings and container-transport volume, or freight
shifted to trucks or trains, to rise 15 percent this year, while
the company’s total container throughput may expand by as much
as 20 percent. That compares with a previous forecast of growth
“well above” 10 percent in sales, earnings and container
volume.  “The Far East shipping region and feeder traffic for
central and eastern Europe across the Baltic contributed to
successful growth at the HHLA container terminals in Hamburg in
the first half,” the German company said last week. “This is a
sign that both regions have returned to their former growth
rates after a severe slump during the economic crisis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  