-- 
Hamptons Scene: Diana DiMenna, Heather Mnuchin, Alison Brokaw

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-08-16T15:44:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/hamptons-scene-diana-dimenna-debra-black-heather-mnuchin-alison-brokaw.html
Diana DiMenna, wife of Joseph DiMenna,  fund manager  at Zweig-DiMenna Associates LLC, tried on
a $35,000 Dior mink coat dyed purple to an approving audience
gathered in the Southampton,  Long Island , living room of Simone
and  David Levinson , chairman and chief executive of L&L Holding
Co.  Outside on the patio Debra Black, wife of  Leon Black , the
chairman and chief executive of Apollo Global Management LLC,
told the president and CEO of Dior Inc., Pamela Baxter, about an
imminent trip to  Croatia  and her work for the  Melanoma Research
Alliance .  “We fund in 11 countries,” said Black, who started the
alliance with her husband.  Heather Mnuchin, a glass of rose in hand, said husband
Steven Mnuchin, chairman of OneWest Bank Group, is loving their
new home of  Los Angeles  after living in New York most of his
life. “It’s like a rebirth,” she said.  And sitting in the sun on a white lounge chair, Alison
Brokaw showed off her brand-new white BlackBerry.  “It has a touch screen and a keyboard,” said Brokaw, who
is married to George Brokaw, a managing partner at Perry
Partners.  Eventually there was business to attend to. Simone Levinson
had arranged the gathering (and brought in Dior to present fall
and pre-fall fashion to guests) to promote a new project, the
Southampton Center of the Arts.  In remarks on her patio, Levinson explained that she is
part of a group of private citizens working with the  village of
Southampton  to develop the center.  ‘Always Running Around’  Their vision is to turn the site that the Parrish Art
Museum will soon vacate into a presenter of outdoor concerts and
dances and indoor theater, cinema and other performing arts.  “I want this to happen because in the city I’m always
running around,” Levinson said. “When I come out here I have
the bandwidth to go see a show.”  Her past parties at the house, owned previously by
designer Reed Krakoff, who helped her decorate, have all been
birthday parties for her son. “This is the first time I’ve had
an adult party here,” she said.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 