-- 
Manchester United Said to Plan $1 Billion Initial Share Sale in Singapore

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 
2011-08-17T03:59:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/manchester-united-said-to-plan-1-billion-initial-share-sale-in-singapore.html
Manchester United plans a $1 billion
initial public offering in  Singapore , two people familiar with
the matter said, as the record 19-time English soccer champion
seeks to cut debt that has fueled fan protest.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  is working on the transaction, which
may take place this year, said the people, who declined to be
identified because they weren’t authorized to speak publicly.
The Premier League team had been considering Hong Kong for the
IPO but now favors Singapore, although no final decision has
been made, the people added. United is ready to sell about 25
percent, one of the people said.  United, examining ways to reduce its financing costs and
raise money that could be used to buy players, is drawing on the
sport’s rising popularity in a region where it has about 190
million fans. A listing by United would mark a victory for
Singapore, which is competing with  Hong Kong  to attract initial
public offerings by European companies.  “It’ll be a good coup for the  Singapore Exchange ,” said
 Christopher Wong , a Singapore-based senior investment manager at
Aberdeen Asset Management Asia Ltd., which oversees more than
$90 billion of regional equities. “Manchester United is an
iconic eye-catching brand in this part of the world, and it’s
probably just capturing that momentum because this is where
growth is coming from.”  Phil Townsend, a United Spokesman, said the club doesn’t
comment on speculation. Credit Suisse spokeswoman Vanessa Neill
declined to comment.  Fan Protests  United wants to acquire players that can help it fend off
the challenge of clubs including  Manchester City , owned by
Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed  Al Nahyan , and Chelsea, owned by
Russian billionaire  Roman Abramovich .  Fans have protested against the team’s U.S. owners, the
Glazer family, even though United has picked up four league
titles and a European Cup since they bought the team in 2005.
The club spends about 45 million pounds a year to service a 500
million-pound bond. The bond, which matures in 2017, replaced
bank debt required for the purchase. That money could be used to
buy players and reduce ticket prices at the previously debt-free
club, according to some supporters.  In March, the team’s parent company, Red Football Joint
Venture Ltd., announced a record 104.7 million-pound ($170
million) fiscal-year loss because of costs related to swapping a
long-term  bank loan  for the dollar and sterling bond last year
and on lower income from player sales.  ‘Smoke and Mirrors’  The Glazers, who also own the  National Football League ’s
Tampa Bay Buccaneers, bought United for 790 million pounds.
Forbes magazine estimates the team is now worth $1.8 billion,
while it was third behind Real Madrid and Barcelona in Deloitte
LLP’s list of the richest soccer clubs by revenue, published in
February. Seeking $1 billion for as little as 25 percent values
the business at about double its real worth, said one banker who
specializes in soccer finance.  “They are betting they will get a higher valuation in  Asia 
based on smoke and mirrors rather than facts,” said Stephen Schechter, chief executive officer of investment bank Schechter
& Co. in London. “I think it’s worth probably half of what
they’re looking for.”  As well as the 500 million-pound loan secured against the
team, the ownership also had a 220 million-pound payment-in-kind
loan that accrued interest of as much as 16.3 percent. The
owners paid off the lenders in November, although neither the
club nor the Glazers have said how the loan was repaid.  United Restaurant  United says it’s the most-supported team in the world, with
a club-sponsored survey revealing a global following of more
than 330 million. The Glazers’ commercial operation, led by
former J.P. Morgan banker Edward Woodward, has secured global
sponsorship and licensing agreements that have led to annual
revenue doubling to about 300 million pounds in six years.  The club has chosen Asia for its IPO because of its
popularity in the region, one of the people said. The team has
fan clubs in countries such as  Thailand , Singapore and  South
Korea  and a supporter base there of 190 million. It’s been
searching for real estate in the region in an effort to boost
its commercial operations.  Singapore boasts Asia’s highest concentration of
millionaires and a United-themed restaurant. The  Manchester
United  Singapore Supporters Club has 2,000 registered members,
up from 50 in 2007, according to its website.  Peter Lim, a billionaire from Singapore, in October offered
320 million pounds for Liverpool, the soccer team that finished
sixth in the last Premiership season. He later pulled the offer,
saying Liverpool’s board wouldn’t talk to him.  ‘Huge Appeal’  “The multitude of local events we run with global and
local partners, and a prospective forthcoming tour of Asia in
2012, necessitate expanding our footprint both with people and
office space,” United said in a statement earlier this month.
“This is consistent with the huge appeal of Manchester United
in the region, borne out of nearly 40 years of visiting.”  In 2009, United sold Portuguese forward  Cristiano Ronaldo 
to Real Madrid for a world-record 80 million pounds. That helped
boost its cash surplus to more than 100 million pounds. It’s
spent about 30 million pounds of that in the past two quarters
buying back some of its bonds.  Manager  Alex Ferguson  spent more than 50 million pounds in
the latest offseason to recruit Spanish goalkeeper David de Gea,
Blackburn defender Phil Jones and Aston Villa winger  Ashley Young . The team opened the defense of its league title with a 2-
1 win at West Brom three days ago.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in  London  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  