-- 
Angiodynamics Names Smith & Nephew’s DeVivo as Chief Executive

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 
2011-08-16T10:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/angiodynamics-names-smith-nephew-s-devivo-as-chief-executive.html
Angiodynamics Inc. (ANGO) , the maker of
devices for minimally invasive surgery, named Joseph DeVivo
president and chief executive officer, giving him the job of
reviving sales of catheters and other hospital products.  DeVivo, 44, a former executive with London-based medical-
device maker  Smith & Nephew Plc (SNN) , will take the helm of Latham,
New York-based Angiodynamics on Sept. 7, the company said. He
was CEO of RITA Medical Systems in 2006 when Angiodynamics
bought the company. DeVivo will replace Scott Solano,
Angiodynamics’s interim CEO since June 14 when Jan Keltjens
resigned.  Angiodynamics’s net income plunged 34 percent to $8.12
million in the fiscal year ended May 31 as sales of its
minimally invasive devices used in surgery, during dialysis and
to treat cancer and varicose veins stalled at $216 million. The
company lost the exclusive U.S. distribution rights to a device
used to block blood flow to tumors, called LC bead, after BTC
Plc bought the manufacturer, Biocompatibles International Plc.  “My objective is to return the company to above market
growth,” DeVivo said in a telephone interview. “Angiodynamics
has a tremendous amount of value and great technology, and we
have the opportunity to extract that value and get back to
greater growth.”  Angiodynamics gained 19 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $14.11
in Nasdaq Stock Market trading yesterday. The shares have fallen
11 percent in the past 12 months before today.  ‘Positive News’  Jason Mills, an analyst with Canaccord Adams Inc. in  San
Francisco , raised his rating on Angiodynamics to buy from hold
on July 15, saying most of the bad news was behind the company.  “Three major shoes have dropped recently: resignation of
its CEO, loss of LC beads business and supply chain issues in
vascular,” Mills wrote. “We think positive news will dominate
the next 12 months,” including the appointment of a new chief
executive and possible acquisitions to bolster growth, he said.  DeVivo said he plans to give more attention to parts of the
business that have been overlooked recently, to be “creative”
when it comes to business development and to look for growth
opportunities through acquisitions and licensing agreements.  “We have a very strong balance sheet and I think our
investors would like us to put that balance sheet to use to
improve the return we’re seeing today,” he said. “There are
opportunities in the vascular as well as oncology business to
bring on new technology through licensing and acquisition.”  DeVivo joined Smith & Nephew in 2007 and most recently
served as global president of the company’s orthopedics group.
Smith & Newphew’s orthopedics business had the fastest growth
rate of all the company’s business sections during the most
recent quarter, said Angiodynamics Chairman Vincent Bucci.  “We are thrilled to have recruited the architect of this
growth,” Bucci said in a statement.  DeVivo has a Bachelor of Science degree in business
administration from the University of Richmond’s E. Clairborne
Robins School of Business.  Solano, the interim CEO, will return to his job as
Angiodynamics’s senior vice president and chief technology
officer, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  