-- 
ManTech Leads Companies Seen Losing Sales on U.S. Debt Deal

-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 
2011-08-16T22:19:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/mantech-leads-companies-seen-losing-sales-on-u-s-debt-deal-2-.html
Nine of the biggest names in the
U.S. defense industry receive more than 70 percent of their
revenue from the federal government and have the most to lose in
the budget cuts approved by Congress this month, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  For these defense contractors, it’s a replay of the 1990s,
when the  Cold War  ended and the Pentagon slashed spending by a
third. For government contractors in all industries, however,
the stakes are significant.  “For some companies, the consequences are going to be
large,” said  Peter Morici , former chief economist at the
 International Trade Commission  and a business professor at the
 University of Maryland . “They’re going to have to sell to the
private sector, and that’s not going to be easy for them.”  When it raised the debt limit earlier this month, Congress
cut $917 billion in spending over the next decade. A special
congressional panel is expected to convene in September to try
to identify another $1.5 trillion of cuts.  The hardest-hit group probably will be the defense
industry, which received the biggest chunk of the $532 billion
in federal contracts last fiscal year, a sum that exceeds the
budgets of the five largest states combined.  Nine companies with a market capitalization of $1 billion
or more receive at least 70 percent of their revenue from the
U.S. government, according to data compiled by Bloomberg:
 ManTech International Corp. (MANT) ,  Booz Allen  Hamilton Holding Corp.,
 Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) ,  Raytheon Co. (RTN) , CACI International Inc.,
Lockheed Martin Corp.,  Oshkosh Corp. (OSK) , Harris Corp. and  General
Dynamics Corp. (GD)  Three of those -- ManTech, Booz Allen and
Northrop Grumman -- count on the federal government for more
than 90 percent of their revenue.  ManTech fell 50 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $35.76 in Nasdaq
composite trading, compared with a 1 percent decline in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. Booz Allen Hamilton dropped 0.8
percent, to $15.78, in  New York  Stock Exchange composite
trading, while Northrop Grumman climbed 0.4 percent, or 19
cents, to $53.24.  A Smaller Pie  Companies will need lots of cash to withstand the new
paradigm, said  Russell Solomon , senior vice president of Moody’s
Investors Service corporate finance group in New York.  “There’s a reorganization going on,” Solomon said.
“There’s a smaller pie, and more companies than ever are going
to be going after it.”  Government contracts more than doubled between 2001 and
2009, to $551.8 billion in 2009 from $220.6 billion in 2001,
according to Bloomberg Government data. Last year, contracts
ticked down by $19 billion to $532 billion.  Lockheed Martin, (LMT)  the world’s largest defense company,
received $37 billion in U.S. government contracts for the year
ending in October, the highest of any single business, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. General Dynamics and  Boeing Co. (BA) 
are next, with $23.4 billion and $19.6 billion in contract
awards.  ManTech’s Exposure  While U.S. companies are looking to make up some lost
federal revenue with new global sales, overseas companies also
are exploring opportunities in the U.S. because their own
markets are stagnating, Solomon said. That’s intensifying the
competition for fewer federal dollars.  For companies like ManTech, it will be smaller growth after
a decade of steady double-digit gains, said Brian Kinstlinger,
an analyst with Sidoti & Co. in New York, who downgraded the
company from buy to neutral on Aug. 4. There will be pressure to
reduce prices on contracts that do survive, he said.  “It’s going to get harder for them,” Kinstlinger said.
“It’s a bearish outlook for several years.”  ManTech has a $4 billion backlog in contracts and is
pursuing more than $27 billion in new opportunities, Sally Sullivan, an executive vice president for the Fairfax, Virginia-based defense and intelligence information technology supplier,
said in an interview. The company is emphasizing areas like
Internet security and intelligence that are more likely to
survive the budget-cutting process, she said.  How to Win  “We’re really focused on areas with priority budgets that
aren’t going away,” Sullivan said. “We already feel like we’ve
done the things we need to do to position well.”  Executives of McLean, Virginia-based Booz Allen said in an
Aug. 9 conference call they’re seeking contracts with higher
margins than they have had with defense, in areas like health
care and financial services.  The companies that are succeeding are innovating, growing
in segments that are expanding and exporting to countries where
demand is greater, said Peter Cohan, a business professor and
author of a book on Boeing.  Boeing has used government contracts to finance its
research and development, Cohan said. The technology developed
finds its way into commercial products, he said. It’s thriving
also by selling to China, Cohan said.  Boeing, Honeywell  “Many of these companies’ executives have memories of the
cyclical nature of selling to the government,” said Cohan, who
teaches at Babson College in Babson Park,  Massachusetts .  Without diversification, “they know they’re going to be
dead when the government starts cutting back,” Cohan said.  Defense contractors will face potential cuts of 10 percent
or more, according to an Aug. 10 report by Moody’s Investors
Service. Increased competition for a less robust market will
pressure profits further, Moody’s said.  Companies are likely to continue to reduce payrolls and may
be forced to restructure, Moody’s said. Big programs behind
schedule or over budget are particularly vulnerable, including
Lockheed Martin’s F-35 Joint Strike Fighter and the V-22 Osprey
aircraft developed by Boeing and  Textron Inc. (TXT) , it said.  “Boeing has been anticipating flattening defense budgets
for some time,” company spokesman Daniel Beck said in an e-mail. “We have been positioning the company for growth by
focusing on increasing international opportunities as well as
moving into new markets.”  Shares Fall  Morris Township , New Jersey-based  Honeywell International
Inc. (HON)  expects sales from its defense and space unit to decline 2
percent to 4 percent compounded annually over the next three
years, Michael Madsen, president of the unit, said in an Aug. 10
presentation. The declines will be made up in part by
international revenue, he said.  “There is no question that we’re heading into a more
challenging environment as we go forward,” Madsen told analysts
at the conference, organized by Jefferies Group Inc.  Rockwell Collins Inc. (COL)  makes parts for military programs
“across the board,” company Chief Executive Officer Clay Jones
said at the Aug. 10 conference. The  Cedar Rapids , Iowa-based
company will take a hit no matter what’s cut, he said. It gets
about 45 percent of total sales from U.S. contracts, according
to Bloomberg data.  “To say we’re in a position here where we’ll go unscathed
is unrealistic, and I’m not going to say that,” Jones told
investors. “But because of our ubiquity, I don’t see any one,
or even two or three, major efforts that will rupture the hull
of our boat.”  Medicare Fight  The Bloomberg Industries All Aircraft Parts Manufacturers
Index, a market average of 44 defense supply companies, fell 1.2
percent. The index has declined 7 percent since Aug. 2, compared
with a 4.9 percent decline in the  S&P 500 . Before then, the
defense index had risen 7.7 percent since the beginning of the
year.  While defense companies may be the most exposed to  federal
budget  cutting now, drug makers, insurers and hospitals are
keeping a close watch for cuts to Medicare in the next round of
budget negotiations this fall. The pressure to restrain spending
on entitlement programs may be substantial, as Medicare alone
accounted for about 15 percent of the federal budget in 2009.  Doctors, hospitals and nursing homes already face
reductions in reimbursements for next year. Health insurers saw
some of the funding for Medicare Advantage managed care plans
reduced by more than $200 billion in the 2010 health overhaul.  Pfizer’s Stance  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  Chief Executive Officer  Ian Read  said in an
Aug. 10 interview he planned to fight attempts to reduce
Medicare drug payments, given the more than $100 billion drug
makers paid out to help finance the 2010 health-care law.  “We are only 10 percent of the health-care spend in the
United States, and we are the most efficient part of that,”
Read said.  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)  of Minnetonka, Minnesota, generates
about 25 percent of its revenue from Medicare, said  Ana Gupte ,
an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein in New York, in an Aug. 2
note.  “In the worst case scenario of 2 percent across-the-board
cuts to Medicare spending, we expect this to be a pass through
for managed care,” Gupte said. “Margins will be preserved
while revenues get hit by 2 percent.”  The reduction would be a one-time loss in 2013, when the
automatic across-the-board cuts are slated to take effect -- not
compounded over a decade as some investors fear, Gupte said.  UnitedHealth, Indianapolis-based WellPoint Inc. and
Bloomfield, Connecticut-based Cigna Corp. declined to comment on
the possible impact of the upcoming budget negotiations.  Government Technology  Federal information technology budgets will be flat, yet
companies may still be able to take advantage of changing
priorities, said Shawn P. McCarthy, an analyst with IDC
Government Insights in Framingham, Massachusetts.  Agencies are shifting from locally installed and maintained
computer systems to cloud computing.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Google
Inc. (GOOG)  are potential beneficiaries, McCarthy said in a phone
interview.  “You’re seeing a momentary blip in spending now in order
to save money in the future,” McCarthy said.  Investors should avoid companies that specialize in
government information technology, where spending has been
weaker, International Strategy & Investment Group analyst Bill Whyman said in an August 9 report.  “There were a lot of clear signals that this was not just
about spending money and being positive about technology,”
Whyman said in a phone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Timothy Franklin at 
 tfranklin14@bloomberg.net  