-- 
HTC Bids to Block Imports of IPhone, IPad

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 
2011-08-17T01:07:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/apple-sued-by-taiwan-s-htc-over-patents-for-portable-computer-technology.html
HTC Corp. (2498) ,  Asia ’s second-biggest
maker of smartphones, filed a patent-related complaint at the
U.S. International Trade Commission that seeks to block imports
of Apple Inc.’s iPhone, iPad and Mac computers.  The complaint filed yesterday in  Washington  claims Apple is
infringing three patents related to wireless technology and
follows a case lodged last year at the ITC that made similar
claims. Taoyuan, Taiwan-based HTC also sued Apple this week in
federal court in Wilmington, Delaware, over the three patents.  “Apple needs to stop its infringement of our patented
inventions in its products,” HTC General Counsel Grace Lei said
in a statement. “We are taking this action against Apple to
protect our intellectual property, our industry partners, and
most importantly our customers that use HTC phones.”  The two companies are part of a larger battle among
smartphone makers looking to fight copycats and thwart
competition in a market that’s projected to reach $206.6 billion
this year by researcher IHS Inc. Apple, the world’s biggest
smartphone maker, has filed patent cases against handset makers
using  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system, including Samsung
Electronics Co., Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. and HTC.  “Competitors should create their own original technology,
not steal ours,”  Kristin Huguet , a spokeswoman for Cupertino,
California-based Apple, said in response to the HTC lawsuit.  Earlier this week, Google moved to protect itself from
lawsuits related to Android with a $12.5 billion agreement to
buy Motorola Mobility. The acquisition would give  Mountain View ,
California-based Google at least 17,000 more patents.  S3 Graphics  HTC also has used acquisitions to bolster its position,
agreeing in July to buy S3 Graphics Co. after an ITC judge found
that Apple’s Mac OS X computer system violated two S3 patents.  HTC, which said in its latest complaint that it generated
about $5 billion in U.S. sales last year, claims Apple infringes
a patent for portable devices that integrate features of a
personal digital assistant and two patents related to networking
to better combine telephones and video services.  The company targets the iPhone, iPad, iPod, Mac computers,
Apple TV and the AirPort and Time Capsule wireless-network
equipment.  The ITC is a quasi-judicial agency that arbitrates trade
disputes and has the power to block imports of products found to
violate U.S. patents. The agency typically takes 15 to 18 months
to complete reviews, and HTC’s lawsuit in  Delaware  would likely
be put on hold if the commission investigates the complaint.  Open to Discussion  A judge with the ITC is scheduled to release his findings
in the earlier HTC case against Apple in September.  Last month, a different trade judge found that HTC
infringed two Apple patents. If that decision is upheld, it
could lead to an import ban on certain HTC phones. Apple filed a
separate complaint this month targeting HTC’s phones and new
Flyer tablet computers.  HTC and Apple “have to sit down and figure it out,” HTC
Chief Financial Officer Winston Yung said in a July 26 telephone
interview. “We’re open to having discussions,” he said.  Apple fell $2.93 to $380.48 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. HTC gained 1 percent to NT$834 as
of 9:03 a.m. in Taipei.  The ITC case is In the Matter of Certain Electronic Devices
with Communication Capabilities, Complaint No. 2841, U.S.
International Trade Commission (Washington). The civil case is
HTC Corp. v.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , 11-cv-715, U.S. District Court,
District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To see the patents, click: 7,765,414; 7,672,219; 7,417,944.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net 
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  