-- 
Samsung Tablet Ban in Europe Scaled Back to Germany in Victory Over Apple

-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k   a n d   J u n   Y a n g
-- 
2011-08-17T03:38:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/apple-can-t-enforce-samsung-tablet-ban-beyond-germany-after-court-ruling.html
The ban on a Samsung Electronics Co.
tablet computer across  Europe  was lifted after the German court
that granted  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  an injunction last week scaled back the
ruling to within national borders.  The iPad maker isn’t allowed to enforce its Aug. 9
injunction outside of  Germany  against the Suwon, South Korea-
based company, the Dusseldorf Regional Court decided yesterday.
The ban on Samsung’s Galaxy Tab 10.1 in Germany stands, court
spokesman Peter Schuetz said in an interview.  “The judges decided to limit the enforceability for now
because there are doubts whether a German court has so a wide a
jurisdiction over a company based in  Korea ,” Schuetz said.  The tablet ban is part of a broader legal battle between
Apple and rival smartphone makers as competition intensifies in
a market that researcher HIS Inc. projects will reach $206.6
billion this year. Apple, the world’s top smartphone seller, has
filed patent cases against handset makers using Google Inc.’s
Android operating system, including Samsung Electronics Co.,
Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. and HTC.  Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for Apple, declined to
comment on the German court order, and reiterated earlier
comments on the overall dispute with Samsung.  ‘Blatant Copying’  “It’s no coincidence that Samsung’s latest products look a
lot like the iPhone and iPad, from the shape of the hardware to
the user interface and even the packaging,” Huguet said. “This
kind of blatant copying is wrong, and we need to protect Apple’s
intellectual property when companies steal our ideas.”  HTC Corp. (2498) ,  Asia ’s second-biggest maker of smartphones,
filed a patent-related complaint yesterday with the
International Trade Commission in the U.S. seeking to block
imports of Apple Inc.’s iPhone, iPad and Mac computers.  HTC claims Apple is infringing three patents related to
wireless technology. The move follows a case lodged last year at
the ITC that made similar claims. Taoyuan, Taiwan-based HTC also
sued Apple this week in federal court in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
over the three patents.  Samsung welcomes the German court’s decision and is “fully
committed” to providing mobile devices to the market without
disruption, the company said in an e-mailed statement.  Yesterday’s decision is temporary, as is the Aug. 9
injunction. The court has scheduled a hearing for Aug. 25 in the
case, after which it may change either ruling.  Ruling Forthcoming  The Dusseldorf Regional Court will likely issue a ruling
within three weeks of the hearing, according to Schuetz. Either
party can appeal the decision.  The hearing comes days after Samsung agreed not to
introduce the U.S. version of the Galaxy Tab 10.1 in  Australia .
Samsung’s product infringes 10 Apple patents, including the
“look and feel” of the iPad, Steven Burley, a lawyer for
Apple, told a Federal Court in Sydney on Aug. 1.  A European sales ban for the Tab 10.1 would be a blow to
Samsung’s target of boosting its annual tablet sales more than
fivefold this year. The company, which doesn’t disclose shipment
figures, probably sold about 1.6 million Galaxy Tabs in 2010,
according to an estimate by NH Investment & Securities Co. in
March.  Samsung’s tablet sales this year will probably reach 5
million, and the company would lose as much as 10 percent of
that if the ban stays in place for the rest of the year,
according to  Neil Mawston , an analyst in  London  at researcher
 Strategy Analytics .  Europe Market Share  Western Europe will account for 30 percent of global tablet
sales this year, according to estimates at IDC.  The Galaxy Tab dispute isn’t isolated to Europe and
Australia. Apple filed a complaint with the U.S. International
Trade Commission in  Washington  in July, seeking to block imports
of Samsung’s Galaxy phones and tablet computers, days after
asking a federal court to halt sales of the devices.  Samsung and Apple have sued each other in the U.S.,
Germany,  Japan  and  South Korea  since Apple claimed in an April
lawsuit that the Galaxy smartphones and tablets “slavishly”
copied the iPhone and iPad. In March, Chief Executive Officer
 Steve Jobs  gave Samsung the top billing in a chart proclaiming
2011 the “Year of the Copycats.”  The two companies rely on each other as Apple buys
components from Samsung, including memory chips, displays and
the processors that run the iPhone and iPad. Sales to Apple
accounted for 5.8 percent of Samsung’s revenue in the first
quarter, according to Samsung.  The German case against Samsung is: LG Dusseldorf, 14c O
194/11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 