-- 
Samsung Tablet Relevance at Stake as Apple Europe Hearing Looms

-- B y   J u n   Y a n g   a n d   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 
2011-08-16T00:24:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/apple-hearing-in-europe-over-galaxy-to-test-samsung-s-relevance-in-tablets.html
Samsung Electronics Co.’s lawyers
may have 10 days to prove that the latest Galaxy Tab is no iPad
rip-off and prevent the world’s second-largest maker of tablet
computers from dropping off  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s rearview mirror.  A German court on Aug. 25 will hear Samsung’s bid to
overturn last week’s temporary order banning sales of the Galaxy
Tab 10.1 in most of the European Union, according to court
documents. Apple also is seeking to block sales of the tablet in
the U.S. market, according to separate filings.  The case shows how Samsung’s deepening dispute with its
rival -- and biggest customer -- across three continents is
undermining the company’s ability to compete in a surging tablet
market that’s forecast to grow to $53 billion by 2015. Losing
 Europe  may deprive the South Korean electronics maker of an
estimated half a million  Galaxy Tab  sales this year as
competition escalates from  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and  Research In
Motion Ltd. (RIMM)   “It’s a genuine headache for Samsung,” Tim Renowden, a
Melbourne-based analyst at the Ovum Ltd. research firm, wrote in
an e-mail. “If these legal battles continue, there’s no doubt
that it will inhibit Samsung’s sales momentum. A worst-case
scenario is that Samsung’s channel partners decide that Samsung
products represent a risk.”  The Dusseldorf Regional Court will likely issue a ruling
within three weeks of the hearing, according to Peter Schuetz, a
spokesman of the court. Either party can appeal the decision.  IPad’s ‘Look and Feel’  The hearing comes days after Suwon, South Korea-based
Samsung agreed not to introduce the U.S. version of the Galaxy
Tab 10.1 in  Australia . Samsung’s product infringes 10 Apple
patents, including the “look and feel” of the iPad, Steven
Burley, a lawyer for Apple, told a Federal Court in Sydney on
Aug. 1.  The Galaxy Tab 10.1, which runs on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android
operating system, went on sale in the U.S. in June and in Korea
the following month. Though slimmer than the iPad, it features a
larger screen and a higher-resolution camera than Apple’s tablet
computer.  A European sales ban for the Tab 10.1 would be a blow to
Samsung’s target of boosting its annual tablet sales by more
than fivefold this year. The company, which doesn’t disclose
shipment figures, probably sold about 1.6 million Galaxy Tabs in
2010, according to an estimate by NH Investment & Securities Co.
in March.  European Sales  By comparison, Apple may sell about 35 million units
annually this year, according to  Neil Mawston , an analyst in
 London  at researcher  Strategy Analytics . Samsung was the world’s
second-largest tablet maker in the first quarter with a market
share of about 16 percent, trailing the iPad’s 69 percent share,
according to Mawston.  He estimates this year’s tablet sales at Samsung will reach
5 million, and if the ban stays in place for the rest of the
year, the company would lose as much as 10 percent of that.  Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. ranked third and companies 
including  ZTE Corp. (000063)  and  Dell Inc. (DELL)  took the rest of the market, 
he said. Industrywide sales could grow fivefold to $53 billion, 
according to Framingham, Massachusetts-based researcher IDC Corp.  Western Europe will account for 30 percent of global tablet
sales this year, according to estimates at IDC.  ‘Puristic’ Design  The Galaxy Tab dispute isn’t isolated to Europe and
Australia. Apple filed a complaint with the U.S. International
Trade Commission in  Washington  in July, seeking to block imports
of Samsung’s Galaxy phones and tablet computers, days after
asking a federal court to halt sales of the devices.  “The damage to Samsung could get bigger if the patent-
related suits with Apple aren’t sorted out quickly,” said Seo Won Seok, a Seoul-based analyst at NH Investment & Securities Co.
“No court ruling has been made in the U.S., but you can’t rule
out a possibility that there will be a similar situation.”  The U.S. will account for 47 percent of global tablet sales
this year, according to IDC.  In the German case, Samsung, the world’s largest maker of
televisions, memory chips and flat-panel displays, could argue
there’s a limit to how much protection Apple can seek on tablet
designs, said Timo Ehmann, an intellectual property lawyer in
Munich.  “The problem is that the iPad’s design is already pretty
puristic, so any other tablet will necessarily remind you of
that,” Ehmann said in an interview. “A tablet is flat and has
a touch screen. It’s difficult to picture how you can make one
that looks fundamentally different.”  Symbiotic Relationship  Steve Park , a Seoul-based spokesman for Apple, said the
company needs to protect its products. Nam Ki Yung, a Seoul-
based spokesman for Samsung, referred to the company’s statement
last week that said it’s “disappointed” with last week’s court
decision in  Germany  and will take “all necessary measures” to
protect its innovations.  The two companies rely on each other as Apple buys
components from Samsung, including memory chips, displays and
the processors that run the iPhone and iPad. Sales to Apple
accounted for 5.8 percent of Samsung’s revenue in the first
quarter, according to Samsung.  Samsung and Apple have been suing each other in the U.S.,
Germany,  Japan  and South  Korea  since Apple claimed in an April
lawsuit that the Galaxy smartphones and tablets “slavishly”
copied the iPhone and iPad. In March, Chief Executive Officer
 Steve Jobs  gave Samsung the top billing in a chart proclaiming
2011 the “Year of the Copycats.”  “It clearly shows how scared Apple is of Samsung,” said
Mark Newman, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co. “Samsung is clearly Apple’s strongest rival and strongest
competitor in the future, not just in tablets, but also
smartphones.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net ;
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  