-- 
Asia Commodity Day Ahead: Gold Is a ‘Bubble,’ Wells Fargo Says

-- B y   M i l l i e   M u n s h i
-- 
2011-08-16T21:37:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/asia-commodity-day-ahead-gold-is-a-bubble-wells-fargo-says.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  
TOP STORY:  Gold Market Is a ‘Bubble Poised to Burst,’ Wells Fargo Says (3)  Speculative demand from investors has pushed the gold
market into a “bubble that is poised to burst” after prices
surged to a record this year,  Wells Fargo & Co . said.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Some Rare Earth Prices Will ‘Collapse’ on Oversupply, Miner Says  Prices for some rare-earth minerals, which have soared in
the past year after China restricted exports, will plunge as
additional output creates an oversupply, according to a company
developing a rare-earth mine in  Wyoming .  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper Falls as Sagging European Economy May Damp Metal Demand  Copper fell for the first time in four sessions as the
slowest growth in the euro-area economy in two years spurred
concern that metal demand will decline.  MINING:  Jinchuan Group Seeks to Use Metorex for Africa Metals Growth (1)  Jinchuan Group Ltd., the second-largest cobalt producer and
fourth-largest nickel company by capacity, may use a planned
$1.36 billion takeover of Metorex Ltd. as a platform to expand
its African metals operations.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold Futures Advance on Haven Demand as European Economy Sags  Gold futures rose to a record settlement as the sagging
European economy spurred demand for the precious metal as an
investment haven.  Gold Trading Increased 4% in July, Silver Declined, LBMA Says  Gold trading increased 4 percent to an average of 19.6
million ounces a day in July compared with the previous month,
the London Bullion Market Association said today in an e-mailed
report.  AGRICULTURE:  Corn Cash Premiums Fall on Slowing Exports; Soybean Basis Rose  Cash premiums for corn shipped in August to export
terminals near  New Orleans  fell relative to Chicago futures on
reduced exporter demand as prices increased. The soybean basis
rose.  Wheat Rises as U.S. Great Plains Drought May Cut Winter Crops  Wheat rose to the highest price in almost two weeks on
speculation that persistent dry weather in the U.S. Great Plains
will reduce the number of acres farmers will sow with winter
crops.  Corn Rises as Midwest Heat Wave Curbs Crop Yields; Soybeans Fall  Corn futures rallied to a two-month high on speculation
that a July heat wave damaged U.S. crop yields more than the
government said last week, signaling tightening supplies.
Soybeans fell.  Hogs Fall as Cooler Weather May Boost Animal Weight; Cattle Gain  Hog futures fell for the first time in four sessions on
signs that cooler weather in the U.S. Midwest will allow animals
to gain more weight, boosting pork supplies. Cattle gained.  Sugar Advances on Increasing  China  Demand; Coffee, Cocoa Rise  Sugar prices gained the most in three weeks on signs that
demand may increase in China, the world’s second-biggest
consumer. Coffee climbed to a one-month high, and cocoa
advanced.  Cotton Drops on Signs China Slowing Imports; Orange Juice Gains  Cotton fell for the first time in three sessions on signs
of slowing purchases by textile mills in China, the world’s
largest user. Orange-juice futures gained.  SHIPPING:  Norden Sees Commodity Shipping Costs Remaining Low Into 2012 (2)  D/S Norden A/S, Europe’s largest publicly traded
commodities-shipping company, said charter rates for bulk
carriers will stay at low levels into 2012 as excess vessel
supply cuts the amount owners can charge.  Baltic Dry Index Gains Most Since May on Higher Capesize Rents  The Baltic Dry Index, a measure of global commodity-
shipping costs, rose the most since May 25 as rents for capesize
vessels that haul iron ore and coal reached the highest level in
almost five weeks.  ECONOMIES:  U.S. Economy: Production Climbs as Homebuilding Drops (1)  Manufacturers in the U.S. churned out more cars, computers
and furniture in July, easing concern that one of the mainstays
of the recovery was giving way.  Housing Starts in U.S. Decrease as Construction Stagnates (2)  Builders began work on fewer homes in July, indicating
residential real estate is failing to contribute to U.S. growth
two years into an economic recovery.  Europe ’s Second-Quarter Expansion Slows More Than Forecast (4)  European economic growth slowed more than economists
forecast in the second quarter as  Germany ’s recovery almost
ground to a halt amid the worsening sovereign- debt crisis.  OTHER MARKETS:  Stocks, Euro Decline as Germany, France Propose Transaction Tax  U.S. stocks broke a three-day winning streak and the euro
slid from a three-week high against the dollar as France and
Germany said they will propose a financial transaction tax and
rejected the sale of common European bonds. Treasuries and gold
rallied, while oil slid.  Biggest VIX Swings Prompt Record Redemptions in Barclays ETN  Investors are using exchange-traded notes to speculate U.S.
stock declines will slow, placing record bets that the benchmark
gauge for volatility is poised to decrease after soaring the
most in four years.  Oil Drops as Slowing German Economy Signals Demand May Falter  Crude oil  dropped, bring its decline this month to 9.5
percent, after Germany’s economy almost stalled in the second
quarter, bolstering concern that fuel consumption will diminish.  SPORTS:  Arsenal Beats Udinese 1-0 to Open  Champions League  Playoff Round  Arsenal defeated Udinese 1-0 in their opening Champions
League soccer playoff game.  Manchester United  Said to Plan $1 Billion  Singapore  Offering (1)  Manchester United plans a $1 billion initial public
offering in Singapore, two people familiar with the matter said,
as the record 19-time English soccer champion seeks to cut debt
that has fueled fan protest.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  