-- 
Asia Inflation Risk May Climb With Yingluck Plan to Boost Thai Rice Prices

-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 
2011-08-17T08:33:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/asia-inflation-risk-may-rise-with-thai-plan-to-boost-rice-prices.html
Yingluck Shinawatra became
 Thailand ’s first female prime minister by pledging to lift rural
incomes through higher rice prices. The rest of Asia may now
have to pay for her campaign promise.  Yingluck has said the government will buy unmilled grain
from farmers at 15,000 baht ($502) a ton at harvest in November,
above  current market rates  of 9,900 baht. With Thailand the
world’s biggest exporter, that may raise rice prices across a
region that accounts for 87 percent of global consumption. The
leader presented her economic policies to Cabinet yesterday and
is scheduled to announce them publicly by Aug. 24.  “High rice prices will translate into higher inflation
pressures in Asia, at a time when most inflation readings are
flirting near the higher end of central-bank target or forecast
ranges,” said Chua Hak Bin, a Singapore-based economist at Bank
of America Merrill Lynch. “Once the global backdrop stabilizes,
inflation could come back strongly.”  The acceleration of policies to boost consumption in
Thailand risks complicating monetary policy across  Asia , as
soaring food costs add pressure for higher  interest rates  while
the region braces for a growth slowdown.  South Korea ,  Malaysia ,
and the  Philippines  have left borrowing costs unchanged in
recent weeks, while China, India and Thailand raised rates in
July to tame inflation.  Food makes up more than 30 percent of inflation indexes on
average in Asia, according to Rabobank Groep NV. The weighting
of rice in consumer-price indexes varies from 9.4 percent in the
Philippines, 4.7 percent in  Indonesia  and 2.9 percent in
Thailand, according to Bank of America.  Onions, Chilies  The fondness for certain foods in Asian cuisine -- from
pork in China to onions in  India  and chilies in Indonesia -- has
left some of the region’s central banks grappling with the
challenge of responding to surges in the cost of staples. A more
varied diet and greater purchasing power for non-food items
leave wealthier nations less vulnerable to food-cost gains.  Inflation in at least 10 Asian economies has risen above
10-year averages and has either breached or approached the upper
end of official targets. Asian central banks have raised
interest rates 44 times since March 2010 to contain inflation
and the global uncertainty may keep them on hold “for a month
or so,” according to DBS Group Holdings Ltd.  “When the European debt crisis first flared up in May,
they stopped dead in their tracks” except for Malaysia, said
 David Carbon , head of economic and currency research at DBS in
 Singapore . “We do not envision a double dip in the U.S. and we
suspect that Asia will be back in tightening mode by October.”  Volatile Prices  The Bank of Thailand’s policy makers will gather on Aug. 24
for their next rate decision, after eight increases over the
past 13 months.  Sri Lanka ’s central bank will announce its
policy decision on Aug. 19.  Bank Negara Malaysia  raised
borrowing costs in May for the first time this year after three
increases in 2010.  Rice, the staple food for about half of the global
population, has surged about 55 percent in the past year
according to futures traded on the Chicago Board of Trade.
Global food prices remain close to the peak of 2008 and expected
volatility in some commodity prices, such as oil, may boost
prices in coming months, the  World Bank  said Aug. 15.  The export price of rice from Thailand has jumped 22
percent in the past year to $582 per ton, the highest since
February 2010, according to the Thai Rice Exporters Association.
That may rise to $700 by the end of December, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Food Riots  The Thai government also paid above-market rates for rice
in 2008 to boost incomes and bought 5.4 million tons of the
grain from about 700,000 farmers, according to the Internal
Trade Department. Local prices rose to a record 17,000 baht per
ton in April that year and export rates reached an unprecedented
$1,038 per ton the following month after India,  China  and
 Vietnam  curbed shipments, spurring unrest from  Haiti  to  Egypt .  Thailand will pay 15,000 baht per ton for unmilled rice and
20,000 baht for jasmine rice, Deputy Prime Minister and Commerce
Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong said today.  The government has no set target for how much rice may be
bought, and purchases may stop once prices rise “close to or
above” the guaranteed level, he said. Stockpiled rice will be
sold gradually on a government-to-government basis, he said.  Tax Cuts  Yingluck’s Pheu Thai Party won 264 seats in the 500-member
Parliament in the July 3 vote and formed a coalition that
selected her as leader this month. The sister of deposed former
ruler Thaksin said she plans to cut taxes, build rail lines, and
give out free computers to students to boost economic growth.  Her party also promised to raise the daily  minimum wage  to
300 baht, almost double the current pay in some parts of the
country.  The government’s policies will focus on boosting incomes
and cutting costs, and the administration doesn’t “want to look
only at inflation,” Yingluck said yesterday. Finance Minister
Thirachai Phuvanatnaranubala said this week he plans to meet
with the central bank to discuss whether its inflation target
may be an “obstacle” for policy implementation.  “The government’s stimulus policies, especially the
minimum wage increase, may boost inflation and prompt the
central bank to raise the key rate more than expected,” said
Pimonwan Mahujchariyawong, an economist at Kasikorn Research Co.
in Bangkok. “Even if the government raises the wage in some
provinces, that will push inflation to 5 percent next year.”  ‘Save the Bullets’  The Bank of Thailand has signaled it may raise borrowing
costs further, saying the government’s spending makes the risk
of inflation a greater concern than threats to economic growth.
Inflation held above 4 percent for the fourth straight month in
July on higher rice, pork, fuel and electricity prices.  “The economy doesn’t need much stimulus like during the
recession in 2009,” said Pornthep Jubandhu, an economist at
Siam Commercial Bank Pcl in Bangkok. “The government shouldn’t
do much to create an unnecessary burden. We should save the
bullets to use later when needed as we still have a bumpy road
ahead.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 Suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at   tjordan3@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  