-- 
Asia Stocks Gain as Buffett Buys on ‘Sale,’ Tech Rises on Google

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-08-16T11:02:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/asia-stocks-climb-amid-takeovers-rising-commodity-prices-korea-advances.html
Asian stocks, trading at their
cheapest since 2008, advanced for a second day as Google Inc.’s
largest acquisition boosted technology shares and investor
 Warren Buffett  said he was buying equities at “sale” prices.  Samsung Electronics Co. surged 6.1 percent in Seoul after
Google, the biggest maker of smartphone software, agreed to buy
Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. and as Korean shares resumed
trading after a holiday yesterday. Foxconn International
Holdings Ltd., Motorola Mobility’s biggest supplier according to
Bloomberg data, leaped 13 percent in Hong Kong.  Westpac Banking
Corp. (WBC) , Australia’s No. 2 lender, slumped 4.4 percent in Sydney
after third-quarter profit slipped. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index
pared gains after Germany reported that economic growth almost
stalled in the second quarter.  The Asia-Pacific gauge rose 0.2 percent to 124.68 as of
7:51 p.m. in  Tokyo . About five stocks advanced for every four
that declined, and six of 10 industry groups tracked by the
index climbed. The gauge traded at 12.5 times estimated earnings
at the close yesterday, near the lowest level since December
2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “I like buying on sale,” said Buffett, whose Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. made its biggest bets on the stock market of this
year on Aug. 8 as the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index plunged the
most since December 2008. “Last Monday, we spent more money in
the stock market buying than any day this year,” Buffett,
Berkshire’s chief executive officer, said in a television
interview with  Charlie Rose  on PBS.  Germany  Slows  The Asia-Pacific index completed its third straight weekly
loss last week on Aug. 12 after Standard & Poor’s cut its rating
on U.S. government debt and concern grew that  Europe ’s credit
crisis may spread. Ten-day historical volatility on the MSCI
index climbed last week to the highest level since March.  Stocks’ pared gains today as a report showed Germany’s
economy, Europe’s largest, expanded just 0.1 percent in the
second quarter as the region’s sovereign debt crisis weighed on
confidence. Economists had estimated growth of 0.5 percent,
according to the median of 33 economist estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey.  Separately, the  Les Echos  daily reported that  France  is
likely to cut its growth forecasts after the economy stagnated
in the second quarter. The paper cited an unidentified person
close to President Nicolas Sarkozy.  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index fell 0.8 percent in Sydney,
after swinging between gains and losses as the  Reserve Bank  of
Australia released minutes of its Aug. 2 meeting explaining why
it extended a pause on  interest rates .  ‘Acute Uncertainty’  The central bank kept the overnight cash rate target
unchanged at 4.75 percent, the highest in the developed world,
for an eighth straight meeting, saying risks to demand probably
increased because of “acute uncertainty in global financial
markets,” the minutes said.  Japan ’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 0.2 percent. South
Korea’s Kospi Index gained 4.8 percent, paced by industrial
shares. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index reversed earlier gains to
fall 0.2 percent.  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s  500 Index slid 1.2 percent
today. The index gained 2.2 percent yesterday in  New York ,
erasing last week’s drop, as $21.5 billion in takeovers and
valuations near the cheapest level in two years helped it extend
its best three-day rally since 2009.  Google Inc., the biggest maker of smartphone software,
agreed to buy Motorola Mobility for $12.5 billion in its largest
acquisition, gaining mobile patents and expanding in the
hardware business.  ‘Compelling Valuations’  “With the prevailing nervousness and uncertainty
surrounding the global economic outlook, rising corporate
activity plays a crucial role in increasing confidence around
what appear to be compelling valuations,” said  Tim Schroeders ,
who helps manage $1 billion in equities at Pengana Capital Ltd.
in  Melbourne .  Foxconn jumped 13 percent to HK$3.86 in  Hong Kong , while
Renesas Electronics Corp., also a supplier to Motorola Mobility,
gained 1.9 percent to 549 yen in Tokyo. Samsung rose 6.1 percent
to 750,000 won in Seoul.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said Google’s purchase of Motorola
Mobility may be positive for Asian Android-phone makers as it
helps reduce litigation risk.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 9.7 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with drops of 4.2 percent by the S&P
500 and 14 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Stocks in the
Asian benchmark are valued at 12.5 times estimated earnings on
average, compared with 12.1 times for the S&P 500 and 9.8 times
for the Stoxx 600.  ‘Relatively Cheap’  “Large-scale acquisitions are increasing in the U.S.,
indicating stocks are relatively cheap,” said Fumiyuki Nakanishi, a strategist at Tokyo-based SMBC Friend Securities
Co.  Westpac fell 4.4 percent to A$20.25 in Sydney after saying
fiscal third-quarter profit slipped as demand for lending fell.
Unaudited cash earnings in the three months ended June 30 were
about A$1.55 billion ($1.63 billion), Sydney-based Westpac said
in a statement.  “It’s a subtrend revenue-growth environment,” James
Ellis, an analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG, said ahead of
today’s report. Westpac’s unaudited cash earnings missed his
forecast for A$1.63 billion.  Rival  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  fell 1.5 percent to
A$23.21 and  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , the nation’s biggest
by market value, sank 1.2 percent to A$46.83. Australia’s four
biggest lenders temporarily pared losses after the RBA minutes
were released.  Tokyo Electric Power Co., owner of the crippled Fukushima
Dai-Ichi nuclear plant, led declines among power companies in
Tokyo after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said uncertainty
surrounding government policy made utilities a poor long-term
investment. The stock fell 3.2 percent to 425 yen. Rival Kansai
Electric Power Co. slid 1.8 percent to 1,290 yen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  