-- 
Stocks, Euro Decline as Germany, France Propose Transaction Tax

-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-08-16T20:05:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/asian-stocks-gain-on-takeovers-valuations-euro-trades-near-3-week-high.html
U.S. stocks broke a three-day
winning streak and the euro slid from a three-week high against
the dollar as France and  Germany  said they will propose a
financial transaction tax and rejected the sale of common
European bonds. Treasuries and gold rallied, while oil slid.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined 1 percent to
1,192.76 at 4 p.m. in New York after rallying 7.5 percent in the
three previous sessions, its biggest jump since March 2009. The
Stoxx Europe 600 Index lost 0.1 percent following weaker-than-
forecast economic growth in the region. The euro slipped 0.3
percent to $1.4409. Ten-year Treasury yields fell eight basis
points to 2.22 percent. Gold climbed to a record while oil
dropped 1.4 percent.  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  and Nasdaq OMX Group Inc., two of the biggest
exchange operators in Europe, slid at least 2.7 percent.
 Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) ,  Deere & Co (DE)  and  3M Co. (MMM)  each lost at least 1.4
percent, pacing declines in companies most-tied to the economy.
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Home Depot Inc. (HD)  rose the most in the
 Dow Jones Industrial Average  after topping analysts’ earnings
estimates.  “Europe will continue to be an overhang until they come up
with realistic policies,”  Peter Jankovskis , who helps manage
about $2.6 billion at Oakbrook Investments in Lisle, Illinois,
said in a telephone interview. “We’ve already got disappointing
economic numbers out of Europe earlier today. Then, you have a
program which is not really doing anything to address that.”  ‘Absolute Determination’  Germany and France are working on “ambitious” joint
proposals to defend the euro, French President Nicolas Sarkozy
said. The two countries share an “absolute determination” to
defend the euro, Sarkozy told reporters in Paris today after
talks with German Chancellor Angela Merkel. He said the two
countries would propose a financial transaction tax in
September, without providing specifics. A European financial-
transaction tax was rejected in 2010.  Merkel and Sarkozy rejected euro bonds and expanding the
440 billion-euro ($633 billion) rescue fund. They proposed debt
limits be written into national law and the establishing of a
“euro council” to be headed by European Union President Herman van Rompuy as part of a planned “economic government” for
Europe.  European leaders are scrambling to halt a government-debt
crisis after concern spread last week to  France , the second-
largest euro economy after Germany, and calls grew for the
leaders to discuss joint borrowing or a mutual guarantee among
the 17 euro states.  ‘More Dramatic Announcement’  Sarkozy said today that euro bonds may be “imaginable one
day,” but there’s not enough integration to justify their
introduction now.  Earlier losses in equities followed a report that showed
European economic growth slowed more than forecast in the second
quarter as Germany’s recovery almost ground to a halt amid the
worsening sovereign-debt crisis. Gross domestic product in the
17-nation euro area rose 0.2 percent from the first quarter, the
worst performance since the euro region emerged from a recession
in late 2009. Economists had forecast growth of 0.3 percent,
according to the median of estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  “Following the weak GDP data this morning, the markets
were hoping that we would have seen a more dramatic announcement
to support the euro markets and we did not receive that,”  Mark Bronzo , who helps manage $26 billion at Security Global
Investors in Irvington,  New York , said in an e-mail. “The
markets declined when a financial transaction tax was raised, as
the concern is this will hurt the already weak economies of
Europe.”  Sweden’s Levy  A 1996 report on financial transactions taxes for the
Canadian government found that Sweden’s 1984 levy of 1 percent
on equity trades, doubled two years later, caused half of the
country’s trading to move to London by 1990, a year before the
tax was abolished. Capital gains revenues decreased as volume
sank, “almost entirely offsetting revenues from the equity
transactions tax,” the report said.  The  S&P 500 ’s retreat today was led by financial firms,
energy producers and industrial companies. Freeport-McMoRan
Copper & Gold Inc. dropped 1.4 percent as copper prices sank.
Citigroup Inc. and Bank of America Corp. lost at least 4.2
percent after billionaire  John Paulson  reduced his positions in
both lenders last quarter.  The benchmark index rose 2.2 percent yesterday, erasing all
of its losses from last week following S&P’s reduction of the
U.S.’s AAA credit rating for the first time.  Housing Slump  U.S. equities also retreated today after the Commerce
Department said housing starts fell last month, in a sign that
residential real estate is failing to contribute to American
growth two years into an economic recovery. A separate report
showed industrial production in the U.S. climbed in July by 0.9
percent, the most this year and almost twice as fast as
economists forecast, as carmakers started to shake off the
effects of the disaster in Japan and higher temperatures boosted
utility use.  Billionaire  Warren Buffett  said his Berkshire Hathaway Inc.
made its biggest bets on stocks this year on Aug. 8, when the
S&P 500 plunged 6.7 percent, its worst drop since December 2008,
after the U.S. was stripped of its AAA credit rating at S&P.
Berkshire Hathaway increased its stake in Wells Fargo & Co.,
building equity holdings amid the market decline, according to a
filing yesterday.  “I like buying on sale,” Buffett, Berkshire’s chief
executive officer and head of investments, said in an interview
with Charlie Rose. “Last Monday, we spent more money in the
stock market buying than any day this year.”  Wal-Mart, Home Depot   Wal-Mart gained 3.9 percent as the world’s largest
retailer boosted its profit forecast for the year after its
Sam’s Club wholesale chain helped the company halt a decline in
sales at its U.S. stores. Home Depot added 5.3 percent after the
largest U.S. home improvement retailer raised its full-year
profit forecast after second-quarter profit exceeded analysts’
estimates.  “People are desperate for stability in unpredictable
times,”  Matt McCormick , a money manager at Cincinnati-based
Bahl & Gaynor Inc., which oversees $4 billion, said in a
telephone interview. “ Europe  is a mess. There’s no easy answer
on how to get economic growth going again.”  U.S. Treasuries extended gains following the rejection of
euro bonds by Merkel and Sarkozy, as investors sought refuge in
U.S. debt. The early advance in Treasuries came amid speculation
the  Federal Reserve  may take further action to support the  U.S.
economy  if it weakens further. Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke may
announce policy intentions at a conference in Jackson Hole,
Wyoming, later this month. The yield on the 30-year Treasury
bond declined 11 basis points to 3.66 percent.  Fitch Affirms  Fitch affirmed its AAA credit rating for the U.S. and said
the outlook is stable, citing the nation’s central role in the
global financial system and the flexible, diverse economy. Fitch
had put the rating under review after lawmakers reached a
compromise Aug. 2 on a debt-limit agreement that prevented a
U.S. default. S&P on Aug. 5 cut its U.S. rating to AA+ from AAA,
saying lawmakers failed to cut spending enough to reduce record
deficits. Moody’s Investors Service affirmed its top U.S.
ranking last week.  The euro slumped against 12 of its 16 major counterparts.
The currency fell earlier after data showed slower-than-forecast
economic growth for the region. The euro initially pared losses
as Sarkozy defended the currency, then resumed sinking after
France and Germany rejected euro bonds. The Markit iTraxx SovX
Western Europe Index of credit-default increased four basis
points to 279.  Emerging Markets  The MSCI Emerging Europe, Middle East and Africa Index fell
1 percent, its first decline in four days. Russia’s Micex Index
slid 2 percent, the most since Aug. 10. South Korea’s  Kospi
Index (KOSPI)  rose 4.8 percent following a holiday yesterday.  Spanish two-year yields rose two basis points to 3.22
percent even as the European Central Bank bought the nations’
debt, according to three people with knowledge of the
transactions. An ECB spokesman declined to comment. The yield on
the 10-year Italian bond fell four basis points.  The Swiss franc erased gains against its major peers,
falling 1.2 percent against the dollar after gaining as much as
0.9 percent earlier. Swiss National Bank Vice President Thomas Jordan said the central bank is assessing “a whole range of
options” to counter the franc’s strength, according to an Aug.
11 interview in Tages-Anzeiger. The currency appreciated to a
record 1.00749 per euro on Aug. 9.  Pound, Gold  Britain’s pound appreciated 0.7 percent against the euro
after data showed inflation accelerated more than economists
predicted last month. Consumer prices rose at an annual 4.4
percent rate, after a 4.2 percent increase in June, the Office
for National Statistics said in London. Economists forecast 4.3
percent.  The Dollar Index, which tracks the U.S. currency against
those of six trading partners, climbed 0.2 percent.  Gold rose to a record settlement as the sagging European
economy spurred demand for the metal as an investment haven.
Gold futures rose 1.5 percent to $1,785 an ounce. Oil for
September delivery fell 1.4 percent to settle at $86.65 after
dropping as much as 2.6 percent. Copper for December delivery
declined 1 percent to $4.013 a pound.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  