-- 
AT&T Acquisition of T-Mobile May Mean More Industry Regulation

-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 
2011-08-17T17:20:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/at-t-s-purchase-of-t-mobile-may-spur-more-regulation-of-telecom-industry.html
AT&T Inc. (T) ’s pursuit of U.S.
government approval for its proposed $39 billion purchase of T-
Mobile USA Inc. may lead to more regulation for the
telecommunications industry.  If the Federal Communications Commission and the Justice
Department sign off on the transaction, they may require AT&T
and  Verizon Wireless  keep prices from rising, said  Carl Howe , an
analyst at Yankee Group, a Boston-based research firm.  Regulators also might create a new mobile service provider
by combining smaller competitors or requiring a combined AT&T-T-
Mobile sell part of its customer base to a mobile virtual
network operator such as TracFone Wireless Inc. or Tru,
according to a Yankee Group report.  “Once you have a monopoly, you have pricing power, you
need rules,” Howe, the report’s co-author, said in an
interview. Without more regulation, “your choice is
lawlessness.”  “The wireless marketplace is intensely competitive today,
and it will remain competitive after this merger,” said AT&T
spokesman Michael Balmoris in an e-mail. “More regulation would
be unwarranted, unwise and unproductive.”  Gina Talamona, a spokeswoman for the antitrust division of
the Justice Department, said the investigation is ongoing. FCC
spokesman Mark Wigfield declined to comment.  Stringent Oversight  The possibility of more stringent FCC oversight is a
concern for Verizon, the company’s chief executive officer,
Lowell McAdam, said last month at the Fortune Brainstorm Tech
conference in Aspen,  Colorado .  AT&T will “agree with what the government needs them to
agree to,” McAdam said. The issue is how those agreements
affect Verizon, he said.  Fewer than half of 32 observers questioned since early July
believe the deal will be approved, Stifel Nicolaus & Co.
analysts  Rebecca Arbogast  and  David Kaut  said in an Aug. 11
note. The Washington-based analysts said that opposition to the
transaction by Democratic U.S. Senator  Herb Kohl  of  Wisconsin ,
who heads an antitrust subcommittee, may be contributing to the
negative outlook.  Last month, the FCC suspended its 180-day informal timeline
for reviewing the acquisition after Dallas-based AT&T provided
new economic assessments to show the deal’s public benefits.  FCC,  Justice Department   Investigators at the FCC and Justice Department are worried
that merging the second- and fourth-largest wireless carriers
may harm competition, said a person familiar with the matter.
The person declined to be identified because they aren’t
authorized to talk about the reviews.  “The depths of the probe and the breadth of the
information that the FCC has sought shows that they are really
questioning the underlying assumption of the merger, not looking
at possible conditions” for approving it, said Harold Feld,
legal director of Public Knowledge, a Washington-based consumer
group that opposes the deal.  AT&T executives have said they expect to receive regulatory
approval in the first quarter of next year.  Regulation of the telecommunications industry has
vacillated from the breakup of AT&T in 1984 to a renewed period
of consolidation starting with passage in 1996 of the
Telecommunications Act. If the T-Mobile merger goes through, it
may signal a renewed era of regulation of the sector, Yankee
Group’s Howe said.  Top 27  The deal would leave 17 of the top 27 wireless markets in
the U.S. “highly concentrated,” according to the Yankee Group  report, co-written by Gigi Wang.  With the acquisition, AT&T would displace Verizon Wireless,
which is owned by  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  and  Vodafone Group
Plc (VOD) , as the No. 1 U.S. wireless carrier. Together, AT&T and
Verizon control 80 percent of profits in the market, according
to the FCC’s annual wireless report published June 27.  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  would be a weakened third-place player
that would be bought by Verizon, “creating a national
duopoly,” the Yankee Group report said. Sprint lost 101,000
customers on monthly contracts in the second quarter after
dropping 114,000 in the previous three-month period.  Howe said the FCC will need to cap fees charged by Verizon
or a merged AT&T-T-Mobile for network access by customers of
rival companies.  Data-Roaming  The FCC requires providers of data-roaming services to
offer access to other providers “on commercially reasonable
terms and conditions” under an order that went into effect in
June.  “Just because there’s an order doesn’t mean the regional
carriers feel the prices are accessible or that the FCC is
enforcing it,” Howe said.  Wireless-service charges also might be limited by the FCC,
he said. That would make it harder for Verizon or a merged AT&T-
T-Mobile to undercut competitors by selling cheaper packages of
wireless services that include their less popular offerings,
such as land-line telephone access, broadband Internet and pay
TV.  The  Yankee Group  report is “flawed” because it doesn’t
account for wireless prices falling as the industry
consolidates, said Leslie Marx, an economics professor at  Duke
University  in Durham,  North Carolina .  Wireless prices have fallen 33 percent since 1999, Marx
said, citing U.S. Bureau of Labor statistics.  Study Commissioned  Marx made the comments in a study commissioned by the
Communication Workers of America, which supports the merger.  The FCC may force AT&T to sell some of T-Mobile’s spectrum
to help Sprint and other rivals build next-generation cellular
networks, said Kevin Smithen, a New York-based analyst at
Macqarie Group Ltd.  “The gap between AT&T and Verizon and the other players in
the industry is widening,” said Smithen, who rates AT&T and
Verizon “neutral” and “outperform,” respectively.  AT&T and Verizon have generated $10 billion annually in
“excess profits” from overcharging rivals for the land-line
access, according to a May economic analysis prepared by the Ad
Hoc Telecommunications Users Committee that was filed with the
FCC. The group represents businesses that spend from $2 billion
to $3 billion a year on telecommunications services.  Past action on telecommunication acquisitions shows the
government is focused on keeping prices low and preserving
competition.  Approved Mergers  The FCC in 2005 approved mergers between Verizon and MCI
Inc. and AT&T and SBC Communications Inc., in exchange for the
companies agreeing temporarily not to raise rates or deny
customers Internet access.  The Justice Department required the companies to lease
fiber-optic networks serving business customers to at least one
competitor in cities including  New York ,  Los Angeles  and
 Chicago .  The government will demand more concessions from AT&T this
time, said Henry Levine, a partner at Washington-based Levine,
Blaszak, Block and Boothby, which represents large companies in
telecommunications cases.  “If this merger gets though at all, it will be with much
more onerous, stricter conditions than what we saw in Verizon-
MCI and AT&T-SBC,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in  Washington  at   sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Bliss in Washington at   jbliss@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Dunn at   adunn8@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 