-- 
Atlanta Grows Lettuce Near Runway as Urban Farms Bloom

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   O l d h a m
-- 
2011-08-17T19:33:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/atlanta-grows-lettuce-in-freight-containers-as-urban-farms-bloom.html
(Corrects Inc. to LLC in eighth paragraph of story
published Aug. 16.)  Designer lettuce will soon bud under
the flight path of the world’s busiest airport in Atlanta. An
orchard is taking the place of a parking lot in Davenport,  Iowa .
And homeowners near downtown Denver are turning lawns over to
farmers like  Sundari Kraft , who plant, weed, water and harvest
crops from their yards in return for a share of the bounty.  “People are sick and tired of mowing and fertilizing,”
said Kraft, author of  “The Complete Idiot’s Guide to Urban
Homesteading,”  in an interview at her Denver home. “We have a
stack of applications, enough to double what we do now.”  From New York to  Seattle , cities -- which the U.S.
Conference of Mayors says account for 90 percent of the nation’s
gross domestic product -- are attempting to create jobs, foster
economic development, feed impoverished neighborhoods and fill
long-vacant lots by returning to their agrarian roots.  Kraft, 34, and a team of apprentices nurture tomato
forests, white eggplants, rainbow chard and other genetically
pure vegetables for 11 homeowners who live minutes from
downtown. Kraft sells the crop at farmers’ markets and to 30
families, who fork over $450 for a 20-week supply.  The demand for locally grown produce hit a high point this
year, fed by urbanites looking to save money as well as
documentaries such as “Food Inc.” and books including Michael Pollan’s  “The Omnivore’s Dilemma,”  which explore industrial
 food production .  Alaska  to  Texas   More farmers are marketing their products directly to
consumers than ever, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said
Aug. 5 when it released its  2011 National Farmers Market
Directory . The guide lists 7,175 markets, up 53 percent from
4,685 in 2008.  States experiencing the most rapid growth aren’t in the
West or Northeast, where the local-food movement germinated, the
USDA found. The agency reported a 46 percent increase in markets
in Alaska, and a 38 percent jump in Texas,  Colorado  and  New
Mexico .  “There’s a major trend that has serious legs,” said Matt Liotta, chief executive of  PodPonics LLC , which will start
growing watercress, arugula and other lettuce varieties
hydroponically (in water, without soil) in recycled shipping
containers on eight acres outside Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta
International Airport in the next two months.  “Organic sales are up, fresh produce sales are up and per-
capita consumption of lettuce is up,” he said.  Not Enough Lettuce  PodPonics signed an 11-year lease at the Southside
Industrial Park with a unit of the Atlanta Development
Authority, Liotta said. The lease is below market rate, he
added, because of the city’s interest in the jobs that PodPonics
will create. The company said it expects to hire as many as 30
workers.  Even though Americans are eating more lettuce, it’s not
enough. Only one in four residents meets federal nutrition
guidelines for three or more vegetable servings a day, the U.S.
Centers for Disease Control found in a  2010 study .  To combat escalating obesity rates, nutritionists are
urging diners to fill half their plate with produce.  “The half-a-plate dietary guideline does cause us to look
at our current production acreage and try to figure out: How do
we get there?” said Deputy Secretary of Agriculture Kathleen Merrigan in a conference call with reporters Aug. 5.  With only 2 percent of the nation’s agricultural land used
to grow fruits and vegetables, according to USDA statistics,
there is opportunity for urban farmers to fill the gap.  New York  City  City officials, nonprofits and universities are attempting
to quantify urban farms’ economic benefits to boost private and
public funding as well as productivity.  In New York, the nonprofit  Design Trust for Public Space  is
surveying farms in the five boroughs to create a citywide plan
to support urban agriculture.  “If you talk to longtime observers, they say five or six
years ago they knew every farm plot and everyone involved,”
said Jerome Chou, the trust’s director of programs. “Now that’s
impossible. It’s growing so fast across all sorts of racial,
class and demographic lines.”  Urban agriculture would grow faster if the federal
government supported farmers’ markets as it does large commodity
producers, who receive billions in subsidies, said Jeffrey
O’Hara, an economist at the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Union
of Concerned Scientists, in an interview.  “Modest public funding for 100 to 500 otherwise-
unsuccessful farmers markets a year could create as many as
13,500 jobs over a five-year period,” O’Hara  wrote  in a study
released Aug. 4.  Free Produce  City planners hope urban farms will also revitalize long-
forgotten downtowns. To draw residents outdoors, Davenport
officials plan to give away produce grown on public land.  In coming weeks, the city will transform a neglected inner-
city parking lot into a fruit and nut orchard, vegetable garden
and park space.  “It’s a matter of rethinking what public spaces are used
for,” said Darrin Nordahl, Davenport’s city designer and author
of the book  “Public Produce.”   “Every park has landscaping, every plaza has
landscaping,” he said in an interview. “There is landscaping
on our streets, grounds around schools and public libraries.
Instead of doing everything ornamental, let’s see if we can
produce food on these lands.”  Growing in  Detroit   Restrictive zoning and farming laws in some states make it
difficult for aspiring producers to get projects in the ground.  In Detroit,  Hantz Farms  set out to add to the city’s
thriving network of community gardens by building “the world’s
largest urban farm,” on scores of trash-strewn vacant lots.  Its plans were slowed by a state policy that governs
production guidelines for commercial farms, said Mike Score, the
company’s president.  The law didn’t allow Detroit officials control over what
agricultural activities might take place at Hantz’s farm, Score
said, requiring complex legal negotiations the company hopes to
conclude in the next few months.  Hantz wants to purchase 200 acres in southeast Detroit from
the city, where it hopes to grow Christmas trees. The company
would eventually like to acquire the remainder of the 500-acre
site to incorporate gardens and an educational indoor growing
center, Score said.  Whether on public or private lands, community garden
networks from coast to coast illustrate how urban farms benefit
metropolises economically and socially, advocates say.  “People here are growing 24,000 pounds of food, everything
from leafy greens to squash,” said Barbara Finnin, executive
director of  City Slicker Farms , a decade-old nonprofit in
Oakland,  California , that’s helped 170 inner-city families plant
gardens in their yards.  “If things cost $1.80 per pound-- multiplied by 24,000 --
people here are saving cumulatively over $43,200 a year,”
Finnin said. “That’s money that can be spent in different
ways.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Jennifer Oldham in
Denver, at  joldham1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net  