-- 
Auburn Doubled Merchandise Royalties With National College Football Title

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-08-16T19:26:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/auburn-doubled-merchandise-royalties-with-national-college-football-title.html
Auburn University  more than doubled
its royalties from licensed merchandise sales after winning
college football’s national championship.  Merchandise royalties at Auburn, which beat the University
of Oregon in January to win its first national title since 1957,
surged to $5.3 million for 2010-11 from $2.5 million a year
earlier, according to the Auburn,  Alabama , school.  The haul helped Auburn climb to No. 4 from 15th in an
annual list of top collegiate merchandise royalty earners
released by the  College Licensing Co. , a division of IMG
Worldwide. It’s a lofty ranking Auburn might keep even without
on-field success this season, said Cory Moss, a vice president
for Atlanta-based CLC.  “A championship is extremely valuable, as it obviously
played a major role in Auburn jumping that high,” Moss said in
a telephone interview. “We definitely anticipate a carryover
not only just for the year after but throughout, because we’re
continually trying to develop that brand and utilize the
national championship to catapult them to the next level.”  The rankings cover royalties reported between July 1, 2010,
and June 30, 2011, by clients of CLC, which account for about 80
percent of the market. The company doesn’t represent every
major-conference school, with Ohio State and  Southern California 
among those not on its list.  The  University of Texas  said it earned $10.6 million in
royalties in the last year, more than any other CLC school.
Alabama ranked second, followed by  Florida .  Ohio State took in $9.4 million in royalties, according to
the Columbus, Ohio, school, while USC does not break out royalty
revenue in its annual report.  Vince Young ’s Legacy  Texas became CLC’s top-selling school in 2005-06 after
Vince Young led the Longhorns to the national football
championship. The school doubled its royalties because of the
title, according to Craig Westemeier, an assistant athletic
director, and has held onto the top spot in the retail arena
even though it has failed to win another national championship.  “We’ve been able to continue to grow from what we thought
was an apex of $8 million after that national championship
year,” Westemeier said in a telephone interview.  Sales at the Austin, Texas, school benefit from its more
than 400,000 living alumni and 50,000 students enrolled, as well
as the size and population of the state, Westemeier said.  Industry sales have grown to $4.3 billion from $3.9 billion
two years ago, according to Moss, whose company recently signed
deals to sell apparel at  Gap Inc. (GPS) ’s Old Navy stores and Brooks
Brothers stores.  Knights Apparel Tops  Spartanburg, South Carolina-based Knights Apparel Inc.,
which sells t-shirts and sweatshirts to  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and
campus bookstores, was the top college apparel licensee,
followed by  Nike Inc. (NKE)  and headwear supplier  Top of the World ,
according to CLC.  Video game maker EA Sports, a unit of  Electronic Arts Inc. (ERTS) ,
topped the list of non-apparel licensees, followed by Wilson
Sporting Goods Co., a unit of  Finland ’s  Amer Sports Oyj (AMEAS) , and
Fabrique Innovations Inc.’s Sykel unit, which makes the Snuggie
wearable blankets.  The Snuggies “were extremely big last year and that same
company is also the manufacturer of the collegiate  pillow pet ,
which newly hit stores,” Moss said.  Leading the local licensee category was University Co-
Operative Society, an Austin-based manufacturer and retailer of
Texas merchandise.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  