-- 
Robbie Deans Signs Two-Year Extension as Wallabies Coach Before World Cup

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-08-16T07:41:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/australia-reappoints-robbie-deans-as-wallabies-rugby-coach-through-2013.html
Wallabies coach  Robbie Deans  re-
signed with the Australian Rugby Union through 2013.  Deans, whose contract was due to expire at the end of 2011,
agreed to terms after the governing body’s board instructed
Chief Executive Officer John O’Neill to negotiate an extension
with the New Zealander, the ARU said.  “Robbie has earmarked and brought through a new generation
of Wallabies stars and we have certainly not stood still over
the three and a half years he has been in charge,” O’Neill said
in an e-mailed statement. “I look forward to him making an even
more lasting impression on Australian rugby.”  Deans’s reappointment comes 27 days before  Australia  opens
its bid for an unprecedented third Rugby World Cup title against
 Italy  in Auckland. The Wallabies are scheduled to host the
British and Irish Lions in 2013 and are also set to compete in
an expanded four-team southern hemisphere championship next year
with the addition of  Argentina  to the Tri-Nations.  Deans, 51, was hired as Australia’s first non-native coach
in 2008 after guiding  New Zealand ’s Crusaders to four Super
Rugby titles. The Sydney-based ARU had already re-signed about
20 Test players this year as it seeks to retain its best talent
beyond the Sept. 9-Oct. 23 World Cup in New Zealand.  “A large number of players have recommitted to Australian
rugby this year,” said Deans, who will name his 30-man  World
Cup  squad in two days. “I’m pleased to be joining them.”  Australia, which beat South Africa 14-9 three days ago to
join New Zealand atop the Tri-Nations standings, is currently
the No. 2 team in the International Rugby Board’s rankings. The
Wallabies have so far under Deans failed to add to their two
Tri-Nations titles and regain the Bledisloe Cup from top-ranked
New Zealand.  Deans remains the “best man for the job” because of the
“seamless way” he has reshaped the team’s personnel and
culture, said ARU Chairman Peter McGrath.  “We have a young team playing an exciting brand of rugby
and moving in the right direction,” McGrath said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  