-- 
Australia’s Asia Reliance Risks Larger Shocks, RBA Officials Say

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-08-16T03:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/australia-s-asia-reliance-risks-larger-shocks-rba-officials-say.html
Australia ’s growing dependence on
resource shipments to Asia increases risks to the nation’s
economy, even as it benefits from sales to a region driving the
global expansion, central bank officials said.  “During the 2000s, Australia’s international trade became
more concentrated, both in terms of the goods exported and
export destinations, potentially exposing the Australian economy
to larger shocks,” Reserve Bank Assistant Governor  Philip Lowe 
and Jonathan Kearns, head of economic research, wrote in a paper
released in Sydney. “Along with the new opportunities and
higher expected returns have come new risks.”  In the past year, Australian metal ores and coal shipments
accounted for about 40 percent of total exports, and those to
 Asia  constituted more than 60 percent, with Japan and China
accounting for two-thirds of that, the RBA officials said. They
noted a higher share of exports are going to emerging economies
that “historically have had more volatile economic growth.”  The RBA has kept the nation’s benchmark interest rate at
4.75 percent since November as it gauges the strength of an
economy undergoing the biggest mining boom in 150 years. Demand
for coal and iron ore help drive up the local dollar last month
to a record since it was freely floated in 1983, a rise that’s
hurting companies in manufacturing, tourism and education.  Two-Speed Economy  Private surveys show Australia’s services industry has
contracted for three straight months; manufacturing for four of
the past five; and construction for 14 consecutive months.
Survey respondents cited the currency’s strength and the
developed world’s highest interest rates as key factors.  “These adjustments can be very difficult for those
involved, including the owners of the existing capital in the
industries not growing strongly,” the officials wrote. “But
the economy made similar adjustments in previous decades, and if
these adjustments do not occur then Australia is likely to forgo
some of the expected benefits that the strong growth in Asia
offers.”  Lowe and Kearns, who are presenting their paper at a RBA
conference this week that’s closed to the media, said those
benefits would only be fully realized if productivity growth
improved.  “In the decade ahead, it is highly unlikely that the rise
in the terms of trade witnessed in the 2000s will be repeated,”
the central bank officials wrote, referring to export prices
relative to import prices.  Productivity  “This means that if  living standards  are to continue to
rise at the rate we have become accustomed to, productivity
growth will need to pick up significantly,” they wrote. “If
this does not occur and complacency bred by good economic times
was to set in, then some of the benefits that now seem possible
would fail to materialize.”  Australia last year ranked sixth worldwide in gross
domestic product per capita, compared with its ranking of 22nd a
decade earlier, according to International Monetary Fund
figures. The rising wealth is coming from stronger demand
overseas and higher prices for commodities rather than more
output per worker.  A government measure of  labor productivity  declined to 1.7
percent in the five years through 2010, from 3.1 percent a
decade earlier, according to a report this year by the
endowment-funded Grattan Institute.  In a separate paper, two RBA economists said the surge in
mining investment in an economy “closer to full employment”
may further tighten the labor market and that the distribution
of mining revenue is likely to have spillover effects on prices.  Rising Joblessness  The  unemployment rate  last month rose to 5.1 percent from
4.9 percent in June, the first increase since October.  “This is likely to be a challenging environment for policy
as it attempts to ensure continued containment of overall demand
and inflation pressures,” Ellis Connolly and David Orsmond
wrote in their paper, The  Mining Industry : From Bust to Boom.  Mining revenue has grown to 14.2 percent of Australia’s GDP
this year, from 6.5 percent a decade ago, Connolly and Orsmond
wrote. Wage pressures in the industry have been contained so
far, they wrote.  “There appears to have been only a limited degree of
spillover to wages in the rest of the economy,” according to
Connolly and Orsmond’s paper. “There has been fairly little
impact of wage growth in the mining industry on wages in the
broader economy, even in the occupations where there are early
signs of emerging skill shortages.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  