-- 
Bachmann Has Income from Subsidized Farm

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-08-16T19:33:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/bachmann-has-income-from-subsidized-farm.html
Representative  Michele Bachmann  of
Minnesota, a critic of federal spending, received between $5,000
and $15,000 in income last year from a family farm that has
received more than $250,000 in federal subsidies, according to
her most recent House financial-disclosure form.  Bachmann, winner of the Aug. 13 Iowa Straw Poll for
Republican presidential contenders, also reported that her
interest in the farm was valued at between $500,000 and $1
million in 2010; a year earlier, she assigned the value of
Bachmann Farm Family LP at between $100,000 and $250,000.
Lawmakers can list income and assets in broad ranges.  The farm in Independence, Wisconsin, received $259,332 in
federal subsidies from 1995 to 2008, according to U.S.
government data compiled by the  Environmental Working Group , a
Washington-based research and advocacy organization focusing on
public health and environmental issues. The farm hasn’t
requested federal subsidies since Bachmann’s father-in-law, Paul
Bachmann, passed away in 2009, her presidential campaign said in
a statement released today.  Bachmann said in an April interview that the farm belongs
to her in-laws and that her husband administers it for his
mother and brothers. She also said the farm is rented out.  ‘No Income’  “My husband and I have never received a dime from the
farm,” she said. “We list it because he’s a trustee, but we
don’t receive any income at all from the farm because he is the
trustee and it’s in what’s called a family limited
partnership.”  The campaign statement said all the farm income earned by
the Bachmanns, who are limited, minority partners, remained with
the partnership. “The Bachmanns did not receive any direct
financial benefit from the  farm subsidies ,” the campaign said.  Bachmann voted against raising the U.S. debt ceiling and
called for deep cuts in federal spending, including supporting
the House Republican plan to end traditional Medicare.  “What we do need to do is dramatically shut down the level
of spending,” she said on Aug. 12 on Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital with  Al Hunt .” “We can’t accept the new
normal in spending.”  Bachmann, 55, received an extension from the May 15
deadline for submitting the annual disclosure forms. She
reported that her husband’s psychotherapy practice and clinic
was valued at $600,000 to $1.25 million.  The clinic received $30,000 in government money, which
Bachmann said on “Fox News Sunday” in June went to train
employees.  “The clinic did not get the money,” she said. “And my
husband and I did not get the money either.”  She reported taking three trips with expenses paid by
organizations, including one to the anti-tax Club for Growth’s
economic conference in  Palm Beach ,  Florida , in November.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jonathan D. Salant  in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 