-- 
Securitas Direct Replaces Bridge With Mezzanine, Pulls Bond

-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 
2011-08-16T15:00:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/bain-backed-securitas-seeks-mezzanine-debt-to-repay-morgan-stanley-bridge.html
Securitas Direct AB, a Swedish
security and alarm company, repaid part of a bridge financing to
banks with a 394 million-euro ($566 million) mezzanine loan
after cancelling a plan to sell high-yield bonds.  Securitas got the bridge debt from  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and five
other banks to help finance its buyout by  Bain Capital  LLC and
Hellman & Friedman LLC for $3.39 billion on June 24, before the
market for high-yield bonds soured, according to a person with
knowledge of the deal who declined to be identified because
terms are private.  “It looks like the sponsors and debt arrangers did not
want to take the risk on the high-yield market staying shut in
September,” said Timothy Polglase, global head of leveraged
finance at Allen & Overy LLP in London. “This is more evidence
that investors have dialed back their acceptance of risk in the
last few weeks.”  Sales of speculative-grade bonds in  Europe  have fallen 50
percent since July to $23.1 billion, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg, as investors flee riskier assets to escape
Europe’s deepening sovereign debt crisis. Speculative-grade
notes have lost 1.47 percent since the start of 2011 after
forfeiting 5.5 percent in August, according to a Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index.  Banks provide bridge financing to private-equity firms with
a view to being repaid within three to six months. In 2007,
banks were unable to sell $160 billion of LBO loans when credit
markets froze in the financial crisis, leading to bank bailouts
by governments in Europe and the U.S.  Bridge Loan  Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs & Co., Bank of America
Merrill Lynch,  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , Nomura Bank International Plc,
HSBC Holdings Plc provided the bridge loan and arranged the
mezzanine debt. Mezzvest and  Partners Group Holding AG (PGHN) 
participated in the wider syndication.  Securitas Direct’s eight-year term loan is callable after
three years with an interest margin of 10.5 percentage points
more than the euro interbank offered rate, said the person. The
margin includes 6.75 percentage points of pay-in-kind interest,
which is accrued and repaid with more debt until the notes
mature or are redeemed.  Bain Capital and Hellman & Friedman agreed to buy Securitas
Direct from Swedish private-equity group EQT Partners AB.
Stockholm-based  Securitas AB (SECUB) , the world’s largest security
company, spun off its alarm and security business in 2006. The
EQT V fund bought the unit for 10.1 billion kronor ($1.57
billion) in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Morris in  London  at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 