-- 
Bain Is Said to Pull Out of Talks to Bid for Kinetic Concepts With Avista

-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 
2011-08-16T21:26:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/bain-is-said-to-pull-out-of-talks-to-bid-for-kinetic-concepts-with-avista.html
Bain Capital LLC pulled out of talks
with Avista Capital Partners LLC to make a bid for  Kinetic
Concepts Inc. (KCI) , said two people with knowledge of the matter.  Some of Bain’s advisers were informed of the decision
today, according to the people, who declined to be identified
because the negotiations were private. It cited difficulties
raising financing, said one person. Disagreement over the price
was also an issue, another person said. Bain and Avista had been
seeking to raise financing for an offer to top Apax Partners
LLP’s $5 billion bid, the people said earlier.  The firms had been working with  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,
Deutsche Bank AG, Citigroup Inc. and Jefferies Group Inc. on the
financing, said these people. The companies were only prepared
to proceed with an offer if they could obtain funding at terms
that were economically viable, the people said.  Avista, which owns wound-care maker ConvaTec Inc. with
 Nordic Capital , may seek other partners for a bid, according to
one person. The go-shop period, in which San Antonio-based
Kinetic can seek other offers for 40 days, expires next week.
London-based Apax and its partners offered $68.50 a share for
Kinetic on July 13.  Spokesmen for Bain and Kinetic Concepts declined to
comment. A spokesman for Avista couldn’t immediately be reached.  Kinetic, led by Chief Executive Officer Catherine Burzik,
got about 70 percent of its $2 billion in revenue from the
wound-treatment business last year. The company, founded more
than 30 years ago, also makes hospital beds and tissue-
regeneration products used in surgeries.  Buyout firms rarely attempt to poach targets from their
rivals. If Apax’s deal for Kinetic goes through, the transaction
would be the largest buyout since New York-based Lehman Brother
Holdings Inc. filed for  bankruptcy protection  in September 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  