-- 
Bain, Avista Study Bid for Kinetic Concepts

-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 
2011-08-16T20:09:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/bain-avista-said-to-study-bid-for-kinetic-concepts-to-trump-apax-s-offer.html
Bain Capital LLC and Avista Capital
Partners LLC are seeking to raise financing for a takeover offer
for  Kinetic Concepts Inc. (KCI)  that would top Apax Partners LLP’s $5
billion bid, said two people familiar with the plan.  Bain and Avista, owner of wound-care maker ConvaTec Inc.,
may make an offer as early as next week, said one of the people,
who declined to be identified as negotiations are private.
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , Deutsche Bank AG, Citigroup Inc. and
Jefferies Group Inc. are in talks to arrange the financing, said
the people. Apax’s offer of $68.50 a share for Kinetic was
announced last month.  The buyout firms may drop the plan if they can’t obtain
financing at terms that are economically viable as borrowing
costs for U.S. leveraged buyouts climb to the highest level
since December, said one person. By partnering with Avista, Bain
aims to attract Kinetic’s board with the benefits of a
combination with ConvaTec, which could lead to cost savings,
said two of the people.  “They could merge those two, absolutely,” said Jason Wittes, an analyst at Caris & Co. “There’s a little more room
for upside if there’s a bidding war, but I think $75 a share is
about as high as it goes.”  Cheap  interest rates  may make it easy for bidders to find
financing, Wittes said.  Kinetic Rises  Kinetic rose $1.86, or 2.8 percent, to $67.84 at 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange trading.  A higher offer from Bain, based in  Boston , and New York-
based Avista may come without committed financing, though would
include a letter from lenders expressing confidence in obtaining
the funds, said one of these people. Kinetic’s board would then
have to determine whether it prefers Apax’s offer, whose
financing is committed.  “KCI is undervalued, so that’s probably what’s triggering
this bid,” said Spencer Nam, an analyst at Madison Williams &
Co. in a telephone interview.  “Excluding fees and stuff like
that, I think they can put together something a little higher,
like $69.50.”  Kinetic is attractive because it will be a good candidate
for an initial public offering in three to five years, after
some restructuring, Nam said.  Spokesmen at Bain, Kinetic and Goldman Sachs didn’t
immediately return calls seeking comment. Spokesmen at Avista,
Jefferies, Citigroup, Apax and Deutsche Bank declined to
comment.  Go-Shop Period  Apax, a London-based private-equity firm, and its partners
announced the takeover of San Antonio-based Kinetic July 13. The
so-called go-shop period, in which Kinetic can seek other offers
for 40 days, expires next week.  Kinetic, led by Chief Executive Officer Catherine Burzik,
got about 70 percent of its $2 billion in revenue from the
wound-treatment business last year. The company, founded more
than 30 years ago, also makes hospital beds and tissue-
regeneration products used in surgeries.  Buyout firms rarely attempt to poach targets from their
rivals. If Apax’s deal for Kinetic goes through, the transaction
would be the largest buyout since New York-based Lehman Brother
Holdings Inc. filed for  bankruptcy protection  in September 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  