-- 
Banks Block Obama’s Mortgage Stimulus Plan

-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 
2011-08-16T04:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/banks-block-obama-on-mortgage-stimulus-plan.html
A  U.S. program  to help as many as 5
million homeowners refinance their mortgages is being hindered
by reluctant lenders, suffering a similar fate to the
government’s main foreclosure-prevention effort.  The Obama administration introduced the plan in April 2009
in a bid to prevent defaults among borrowers who were current on
their payments but had little or no equity after the average
home price had tumbled 33 percent since the July 2006 peak. The
Home Affordable Refinance Program, known as HARP, was designed
to allow these homeowners, who usually can’t qualify for new
loans, to benefit from the lower rates engineered by the  Federal
Reserve  to help stimulate the economy.  About 810,000 homeowners refinanced through HARP as of May,
according to the Federal Housing Finance Agency, far short of
the administration’s goal. The program’s limited impact
threatens to prolong the nation’s foreclosure crisis while
keeping billions of dollars out of consumers’ hands -- money
that could flow into the economy in the form of additional
spending or investment.  “Of all the policy ideas to help the housing market in the
very near term, juicing up HARP has the most potential for
success,”  Mark Zandi , chief economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc.
in  West Chester ,  Pennsylvania , said in an e-mail.  The program is open to borrowers with loans owned or backed
by  Fannie Mae  or Freddie Mac and who have equity ranging from
negative 25 percent of their home’s value to positive 20
percent. Negative equity, known as being underwater, is when the
mortgage is bigger than the value of the property.  Risk Avoidance  HARP has fallen short of targets because banks are focusing
on borrowers with the most equity and the least risk, said Derek Chen, a mortgage-bond analyst at Barclays Capital in New York.  From the start of the program through May, 57,171 HARP-
refinanced loans, or 7 percent, were more than 5 percent
underwater, according to the Federal Housing Finance Agency in
Washington, which regulates Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac . The rest
ranged from negative 5 percent to positive 20 percent equity.  HARP, which was scheduled to expire in June, was extended
by the housing finance agency for another year in March.  “I don’t think by most measures that it’s a success,”
said  Guy Cecala , publisher of Bethesda, Maryland-based trade
publication Inside Mortgage Finance. “It’s a combination of
reluctance by lenders to embrace the program and a number of
borrowers who don’t qualify for some reason or the other.”  Mortgage Insurance  Obstacle  Shannon and Keith Kinder, a suburban Atlanta couple, meet
HARP guidelines. They’re current on their mortgage, which is
about 15 percent underwater after they put down 15 percent in
2006 to buy their $228,000 custom home in Social Circle,
Georgia, according to Shannon Kinder.  She said OneWest Bank, which services their loan, refused
to qualify them for HARP because they have mortgage insurance,
which is required for homebuyers with less than 20 percent
equity. That’s left them stuck in a 30-year mortgage at 6.75
percent. The average 30-year rate was 4.32 percent as of Aug.
11, the lowest since reaching a record 4.17 percent in the week
ended Nov. 11.  “It’s frustrating,” Kinder, 44, said in a telephone
interview. “My mortgage company knows my name because I’ve
talked to so many people there.”  David Isaacs, a spokesman for  Pasadena , California-based
OneWest, declined to comment on the Kinder’s effort to
refinance.  Program Rationale  The idea behind HARP was that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac,
which were taken over by the government in 2008 to prevent their
failure, wouldn’t be taking on additional risk because they’re
already guaranteeing the mortgages they’d refinance. Borrowers -
- especially those with adjustable mortgages that may reset to
higher rates -- are less likely to walk away from their
obligations if they can reduce their costs, Zandi of Moody’s
Analytics said.  Banks have been reluctant to offer new loans to underwater
homeowners because of worries that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
will seek to force lenders to buy back mortgages that go into
default soon after refinancing, Chen of  Barclays Capital  said.
Homeowners with private-mortgage insurance are also being turned
down because of the cost and delays associated with transferring
the policy to the new loan, he said.  Petition Drive  Mortgage originators are less likely to approve a HARP
refinancing if they’re not servicing the loan because of the
complicated process involved and the perceived risks, according
to Michelle Murphy, senior policy analyst for housing and
regulatory policy at the Federal Housing Finance Agency.  Keane Ng, a loan officer with Cobalt Mortgage Inc. in
Kirkland, Washington, has collected about 300 virtual signatures
since starting an online petition last October to pressure banks
to approve borrowers with mortgage insurance for HARP
refinancing.  “Some of the banks are just cherry-picking the easy ones,
and the HARP loans with insurance are not easy,” Ng said.  While the  Mortgage Bankers Association  hasn’t taken a
position on proposals to boost refinancings, the Obama
administration should reconsider them given the weaker-than-
expected economy, said David H. Stevens, president of the
Washington-based trade group and head of the  Federal Housing
Administration  until March.  “We are not recommending a mass refi without consideration
of the associated risk,” Stevens said. “We are hearing there
has been an increase in HARP activity and more demand for the
program with some of the major institutions. It takes time for
any new product to get off the ground.”  Increasing the number of people who can refinance would be
a cost-efficient way to pump up the economy, said Chris Mayer, a
professor at Columbia Business School in  New York , who advocates
making more underwater borrowers eligible for new loans.  $400 Monthly Savings  “This is a stimulus for the economy,” Mayer said in a
telephone interview. “If we’re successful in doing a mass refi,
it could reduce payments for 25 million households. It’s like a
permanent tax reduction with a minimal impact on the deficit.”  The Federal Reserve pledged on Aug. 9 to hold interest
rates at current levels through at least mid-2013 to counter the
weaker-than-expected economic recovery.  A homeowner with a $300,000 mortgage at 6.5 percent could
save about $150,000 over 30 years by refinancing at current
interest rates, or more than $400 a month.  “The Fed is running a very accommodative monetary policy
and market rates have declined significantly,”  David Greenlaw ,
chief financial economist at Morgan Stanley in New York. “But
the economy is not reaping the benefits of the low-rate
environment.”  Boxer Bill  Zandi supports a bill introduced in January by Senator
 Barbara Boxer  of  California  to expand HARP, removing the cap on
negative equity and exempting the program from risk-based fees
charged by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. The mortgage-finance
companies would also be required to inform all of their
borrowers that the program is available.  The fees, which are imposed to compensate for lower credit
scores and other credit-risk characteristics, can add as much as
2 percent to the cost of a loan, according to a statement from
Boxer, a Democrat. The bill would help up to 2 million more
borrowers lower monthly payments and pump $2.2 billion annually
into the economy, the senator’s office said.  The House of Representatives, dominated by Republicans,
voted in March to abolish the Treasury’s loan-modification
program, which has been criticized by members of both parties
for being ineffective. The Home Affordable Modification Program,
or HAMP, pays banks and servicers to modify monthly payments for
delinquent borrowers. It’s yielded about 657,000 permanent
modifications, fewer than the initial projections of as many as
4 million.  Republican Resistance  HAMP has been plagued by consumer complaints about lost
paperwork and servicer delays and restrictive eligibility
requirements.  Republicans in Congress are unlikely to allow a proposal
such as Boxer’s to advance because it injects the government
more deeply into business, said Jaret Seiberg, a financial-
services policy analyst at MF Global Holdings Ltd.’s  Washington 
Research Group.  Seiberg said the bill could backfire and push up rates for
all borrowers. Investors in mortgage-backed securities would
demand higher yields to compensate for added uncertainty caused
by the increase in HARP homeowners refinancing and paying off
their original loans early, he said.  “There are real questions whether there would be any
benefits and we know there will be a lot of costs,” Seiberg
said.  The Boxer proposal, which was co-sponsored by Republican
 Johnny Isakson  of Georgia, could also be passed as an amendment
to a larger bill or be implemented by the Obama administration
without legislation, said Zachary Coile, a spokesman for Boxer.  Addressing Concerns  Mayer said Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could eliminate
investors’ concerns by including in newly issued bond contracts
a restriction on future mass refinance programs. Lenders could
be appeased by indemnifying them for the underwriting problems
inherited from the original loans, Mayer said.  A streamlined refinance program proposed by Mayer and
fellow Columbia professor Glenn Hubbard was the model for a bill
first introduced by Representative Dennis Cardoza of California
in 2009. Appraisals, income verification and other paperwork
that is now bogging down HARP wouldn’t be required and closing
costs could be wrapped into the  interest rate  that borrowers
pay, Mayer said.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could face a one-time loss of
$40 billion to $60 billion because the new HARP loans would pay
lower interest rates, Mayer said. The cost would be offset by
fewer defaults and it would put $50 billion to $70 billion a
year in homeowners’ pockets, he said.  “Nothing else has really succeeded,” Mayer said. “So why
not try to provide a stimulus at a moderate cost to the
government and do something to benefit homeowners?”  Broker’s View  Kirk Chivas, chief operating officer for First Commerce
Financial, a mortgage broker in Wixom,  Michigan , said HARP’s
success is vital because it’s one of only a few lifelines for
responsible borrowers.  “When people who have great credit and pay bills on time
complain to me, ‘Where is my bailout?’ I say this is your
program,” said Chivas, who’s helped more than 100 borrowers
refinance through HARP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net ; 