-- 
Biden to Tell Chinese Officials U.S. Still Good Investment After Downgrade

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-08-18T02:45:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/biden-carrying-message-to-china-s-leaders-that-u-s-still-good-investment.html
Vice President  Joe Biden  begins four
days of meetings, meals and tours with his Chinese counterpart
today amid persistent tensions between the world’s two biggest
economies over trade and currency.  The vice president, who landed in Beijing yesterday, will
seek to allay concerns being expressed in  China  -- the biggest
foreign holder of U.S. Treasuries -- that the deficit deal
struck by Congress and the Obama administration earlier this
month doesn’t go far enough to rein in the nation’s long-term
debt and that U.S. growth will stall. Today he meets with Vice
President Xi Jinping, who is set to begin assuming power from
President  Hu Jintao  next year.  In an interview with China’s  Caijing  magazine published
yesterday, Biden said the administration “is deeply committed
to maintaining the fundamentals of the U.S. economy” so as to
“ensure the safety, liquidity, and value of U.S. Treasury
obligations for all of its investors.”  A day after  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded U.S. debt to AA+
from AAA, China’s official Xinhua News Agency issued a warning:
“The U.S. government has to come to terms with the painful fact
that the good old days when it could just borrow its way out of
messes of its own making are finally gone.” In a commentary
yesterday, Xinhua said “runaway” U.S. debt was “a ticking
time bomb.”  Fitch Ratings  on Aug. 16 affirmed its top AAA
rating on U.S. Treasuries.  “The last few weeks have put a new item on the Chinese
agenda,” said  Jeff Bader , who was senior director for Asia
affairs at the National Security Council until April and is now
a visiting scholar with the John L. Thornton China Center at the
 Brookings Institution . “The Chinese will be looking for an
explanation of the broad future of the U.S. economy.”  Biden was met at Beijing airport by new U.S. Ambassador to
China Gary Locke and Chinese Foreign Minister  Yang Jiechi .  Watching Hoops  Biden and Locke made an unscheduled stop at the capital’s
Olympic gymnasium to take in a basketball game between a
visiting team from  Georgetown University , one of the most
popular U.S. college teams, and another from Shanxi province.  While in China, Biden, 68, also will try to establish a
relationship with Xi. After a meeting scheduled for this
morning, Xi is hosting a banquet for Biden tonight at the Great
Hall of the People.  “Biden will try to get a sense of Xi’s style, his
priorities, his qualities,” said  Kenneth Lieberthal , senior
fellow and director of the John L. Thornton China Center. The
vice president and his aides should be “taking careful notes on
who else is in the room” advising Xi.  Wu Bangguo , chairman chairman of the Standing Committee of
the National People’s Congress, hold talks today with Biden, who
also is scheduled to meet with Hu and Premier Wen Jiabao while
in China.  Intertwined Economies  The economies of the U.S. and China, the world’s two
largest, are increasingly intertwined. China held $1.17 trillion
of  U.S. debt  in June, according to Treasury Department data, and
it relies on exports to the U.S. to help fuel its economic
growth. The U.S. trade gap with China increased to  $26.7 billion 
in June, the widest since September, from $25 billion in May.
Imports from China rose to the highest level since November.  S&P’s downgrade led to a rollercoaster week for U.S. stock
indexes sparking a global equity selloff that wiped out about $7
trillion from stock values. Undeterred by the decision,
investors snapped up Treasuries on signs of slowing growth and a
widening debt crisis in  Europe . The yield on generic 10-year
government debt fell as low as 2.1 percent on Aug. 10, and has
declined almost 25 percent since the company said it may cut the
nation’s rating on July 14.  Confidence in Stability  In the short term, analysts say, China won’t sell its
Treasuries. That could change if its leaders lose confidence in
the stability of the  U.S. economy , said J. Stapleton Roy,
director of the Kissinger Institute on China and the U.S.
ambassador there from 1991 to 1995.  “China’s looking for alternatives, and to the extent that
it can reduce its dependence on U.S. Treasuries it will,” Roy
said.  China’s Treasury holdings, while down from their high of
$1.18 trillion in October, have increased for the past three
months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The vice president will be in a good position to talk
about the very strong deficit-reduction package that we
concluded here recently,” Treasury Undersecretary for
International Affairs Lael Brainard said on an Aug. 15
conference call. “Obviously, the  United States  has the
capacity, the will, and the commitment to tackle our major
fiscal and economic challenges.”  Currency Friction  Another source of friction in the relationship is China’s
currency valuation. The yuan has strengthened beyond 6.40 per
dollar for the first time since 1993.  Biden will “put special emphasis” on China’s currency,
which “remains substantially undervalued,” Brainard said.
“It’s very important for global growth; it’s of course
critically important for U.S. exports and jobs.”  The yuan gained the most since 2007 last week as consumer
prices in China rose 6.5 percent in July, the most in three
years, and the nation’s trade surplus widened 41 percent to
$31.5 billion, government reports showed.  Domestic Tension  The currency issue plays into tensions in the U.S. over
trade. Senator  Sherrod Brown , an Ohio Democrat, said in an Aug.
12 interview that the administration hasn’t done enough to
correct the imbalance.  “American patience is running short,” said Brown, who has
introduced legislation with Republican Senator Olympia Snowe of
Maine to address the value of the yuan. “We’ve allowed China to
basically finance their economy with exports to us, and we
continue to allow that to happen.”  According to a June study by the Washington-based  Economic
Policy Institute , which studies issues affecting low- and
middle-income workers, if the yuan and satellite currencies were
revalued to their equilibrium levels, U.S. gross domestic
product would increase as much as 1.9 percent and as many as
2.25 million U.S. jobs would be created.  Caterpillar Growth  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  Group President Rich Lavin, whose
responsibilities include emerging markets, said the world’s
largest construction- and mining-equipment maker, is growing
“aggressively” in China.  The Peoria, Illinois-based company, and its dealers have
almost 20,000 employees in China. With 16 manufacturing
facilities in place there, the company is either breaking ground
or has already started construction on almost half a dozen more.  Still, Lavin said China needs to make it easier for U.S.
businesses.  “We welcome competition but we just want to make sure the
playing field in China is even for U.S. competitors,” he said
in an Aug. 11 interview.  After Beijing, Biden will visit Chengdu, in southwestern
China, and travel to Ulan Bator, Mongolia. The nine-day trip
will end in  Japan , where Biden will reaffirm U.S. support for
the country as it recovers from the March earthquake and tsunami
that led to radiation leaks at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power plant.  North Korea  and Iran’s nuclear weapons programs; security
issues in Afghanistan and Pakistan; improving the protection of
intellectual property rights; Taiwan, Tibet and human rights
will all come up during the China segment of the trip, said
Daniel Russel, senior director for Asian affairs on Obama’s
National Security Council.  Those issues will take a backseat to economic concerns.  “The economy will be topic one, two, three, and four,”
said Daniel Sneider, associate director for research at the
Walter H. Shorenstein Asia-Pacific Research Center at  Stanford
University . “And I don’t suppose the Chinese are unhappy about
finding themselves in a position where they can lecture us about
our profligate ways.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  