-- 
Biggest VIX Swings Prompt Record Redemptions in Barclays ETN

-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 
2011-08-16T20:51:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/biggest-vix-swings-spurred-record-redemptions-in-barclays-volatility-note.html
Investors are using exchange-traded
notes to speculate U.S. stock declines will slow, placing record
bets that the benchmark gauge for volatility is poised to
decrease after soaring the most in four years.  Outstanding stock in  Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s  iPath S&P 500 VIX
Short-Term Futures ETN (VXX) , which rallies when volatility increases,
plunged 48 percent last week for the biggest drop in its 30-
month history.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ’s  VelocityShares Daily
Inverse VIX Short Term ETN (XIV) , a bet the gauge will fall, rose to a
record 49.9 million shares, becoming the second-largest ETN tied
to equity swings.  Volatility securities had record volume last week as
traders bet on fluctuations in the VIX, which has moved in the
opposite direction of the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index about 85
percent of the time in the last two years. Investors are
wagering that the index, which measures the cost of options to
protect  S&P 500  shares, will decline from last week’s two-year
high and return to its historical average.  “It’s a good bet,” Michael Corcelli, who has sold VXX
call options, said in a telephone interview today. He is a
managing member of Alexander Alternative Capital LLC, a Miami-
based hedge fund that invests in equity-index options. “While
I’m not wildly bullish on the economy, there’s been a tremendous
amount of work done to cushion the landing from the macro
standpoint on all these catastrophic risks.”  Rising Volatility  Unprecedented swings in the S&P 500 pushed the VIX, as the
Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index is known, up 50
percent to 48 on Aug. 8, the biggest surge since February 2007,
then down 27 percent the next day for the second-largest drop.
The VIX, which has averaged 20.36 over its 21-year history, fell
to a 12-year intraday low of 9.39 in December 2006 then soared
to an intraday record 89.53 in October 2008.  “It always reverts to the mean. That’s an easy call to
make,” Randy Frederick, the Austin, Texas-based director of
trading and derivatives for  Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW) , which has 8
million brokerage accounts, said in a phone interview today.
“The tough part is to say how quickly it’s going to do that. It
always reverts back when you get extreme spikes, but the
question is how extreme.”  The S&P 500 tumbled 12 percent from its April 29 high
through yesterday on concern the  U.S. economy  will enter its
second recession in three years. The benchmark gauge for
American equity lost 6.7 percent on Aug. 8, the first day of
trading after S&P stripped the U.S. government of its AAA credit
rating, and plunged 4.4 percent two days later amid signs
 Europe ’s debt crisis would spread.  Cheapest Since 2009  The decline has pushed the S&P 500’s valuation to as low as
12.1 times earnings in the last 12 months, the lowest level
since 2009, when the rally that lifted the index as much as 102
percent began. Earnings among companies in the gauge are
projected to climb 17 percent to $99.18 a share this year and 14
percent to $113.05 in 2012, according to analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  ETNs, which are unsecured bank debt, are backed by their
issuer’s credit, unlike exchange-traded funds, which hold
assets. Banks create and redeem shares of ETNs based on the
level of demand for the securities. That demand doesn’t affect
the price since the ETNs track the performance of an index.  Banks issue ETNs to raise funds that they can use for
lending or other purposes. London-based Barclays, which controls
more than half the market, listed the first ones in June 2006.
Money invested in the securities has increased to about $15.4
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Record Levels  Increasing use of exchange-traded products tracking VIX
futures are helping drive volume and open interest for those
contracts to record levels. VIX futures trading volume rose to a
record 533,430 contracts last week on the CBOE, according to
data from the largest U.S. options market, which has the
exclusive license to trade futures and options on the volatility
index.  Trading of VIX futures exceeded 100,000 for the first time
on June 16, after rising above 70,000 contracts in November and
first passing 40,000 in May 2010. The exchange operated by
Chicago-based  CBOE Holdings Inc. (CBOE)  created them in  March 2004 .  The price of the VIX is higher than the level of the
futures as investors speculate swings will decrease. September
futures settled at 26.90 today, or 18 percent below the VIX,
while December’s closed at 24.75, 25 percent below.  “VIX futures are more expensive than what the market
expects they’ll be worth in a month, and that suggests that
investors are betting on a decline in the VIX,” Will Lloyd,
head of index products at VelocityShares LLC in  New Canaan ,
 Connecticut , said in a telephone interview yesterday.  Biggest Note  Barclays’s note, the largest one tracking U.S. volatility
by market value, climbed 2.1 percent to $32.87 today after
losing 5.7 percent in the previous session. VXX has lost 92
percent since its inception in January 2009, three times the
drop in the VIX. The VelocityShares inverse note has climbed 6.7
percent in the last four days as the VIX declined 24 percent and
the S&P 500 rose 6.4 percent.  “This tells you individual investors are saying, ‘I want
in to the market and to bet that volatility mean reverts back
down,’” Steve Claussen, chief investment strategist at
OptionsHouse LLC, the Chicago-based online brokerage, said in a
phone interview on Aug. 12. “But it means that if the market
does take another leg down people are going to get crushed. The
moves are just phenomenal.”  Investors also are making record options bets on a decline
in the Barclays note. The ratio of outstanding puts to sell the
ETN has risen to 1.5 times the number of calls, the highest
since options on the note were listed on exchanges in May 2010.
Volume for both puts and calls surged to a record on Aug. 5,
with 422,828 contracts changing hands.  The proliferation of volatility-tied, exchange-traded
products has made securities tied to the “fear gauge” an asset
class, Bob Tull, chief operating officer for Factor Advisors
LLC, a New York-based issuer of exchange-traded funds, said in a
telephone interview on Aug. 12.  “We see traditional buy-and-hold people who will own a
volatility security for an hour, two hours as a means to try and
protect their portfolio,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
 Matt Robinson  in New York at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  