-- 
RIM Left in ‘No Man’s Land’ After Google Cuts Motorola Deal

-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 
2011-08-16T20:36:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/blackberry-maker-rim-left-in-no-man-s-land-after-google-s-motorola-deal.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM) , maker of
the BlackBerry smartphone and PlayBook tablet computer, may have
the most to lose from  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s deal to acquire Motorola
Mobility Holdings Inc.  Google’s proposed $12.5 billion acquisition would leave RIM
a smaller player relative to rivals, which may force it to
strike an alliance with another company or sell itself to remain
competitive, said  Will Stofega , a program director at consultant
IDC. With Google’s cash and software expertise, Motorola may
present a direct challenge to RIM in its traditional stronghold,
the corporate market, he said.  “Now that Motorola has a big war chest behind them,
Research In Motion has got to watch out,” Stofega said in an
interview.  Already losing market share in smartphones, RIM is seeing
several competitors beyond Google and Motorola gain scale and
expertise. In February, mobile-phone maker Nokia Oyj struck a
strategic partnership with  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the world’s largest
software maker. Last year,  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , the world’s
largest computer company, bought handset maker Palm Inc.  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) , maker of the iPhone, briefly became the world’s most
valuable company last week, though it hasn’t made major
acquisitions.  RIM may need more size and software expertise to compete,
said  Chetan Sharma , an independent wireless analyst. The
Waterloo, Ontario-based maker of BlackBerrys may have to sell to
a company such as Hewlett-Packard,  Dell Inc. (DELL) , Samsung
Electronics Co. or  HTC Corp. (2498) , he said.  “They are in no man’s land at this point,” Sharma said in
an interview.  Falling Share  Marisa Conway, a spokeswoman for RIM, declined to comment
on the record about the Google deal or the prospect of an
acquisition. Michael Thacker, a Hewlett-Packard spokesman; Kim Titus, a Samsung spokesman; and Jess Blackburn, a Dell
spokesman, also declined to comment. HTC couldn’t be immediately
reached for comment.  RIM is losing market share as consumers turn to mobile
phones that can run games, surf the Web and handle other
computing tasks. The company’s share of  the global smartphone
market  fell to 12 percent in the second quarter, from 19 percent
a year earlier, according to Gartner. Android became the world’s
leading mobile-phone operating system over the same period,
rising to 43 percent of the market. Apple climbed to 18 percent,
from 14 percent a year earlier, Gartner said.  RIM had its stock rating reduced to “sell” from “hold”
by Andy Perkins, a Societe Generale analyst in  London , who cut
his 12-month target for the shares to $20 from $50.  ‘Speculative Buy’  Threats to RIM’s BlackBerry Messenger instant-messaging
service from Apple’s iMessage service and Facebook Inc. “could
reduce demand for RIM’s products even further,” Perkins said in
a note today.  The stock fell 18 cents, or 0.7 percent, to $26.93 at 4:29
p.m. New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The shares have
dropped 54 percent this year.  RIM rose 10 percent yesterday on the Google news, which may
indicate investors think the chances of an acquisition are
increasing, said  Peter Misek , an analyst with Jefferies & Co.
Inc. Though the company has been struggling, it has a strong
base of corporate customers and valuable patents, he said.  Patent Battle  As handset makers have sued each other over patents,
intellectual property has emerged as critical asset in mobile-
computing competition. A group of companies including Apple and
RIM agreed to spend $4.5 billion this year to buy Nortel
Networks Corp.’s patent portfolio. The BlackBerry maker holds
2,033 patents, pertaining to everything from mobile security to
e-mail, according to the U.S. Patent Office.  Google said Motorola’s intellectual property was one
motivation for the acquisition. Motorola, which pioneered the
mobile-phone business, has more than 17,000 patents, which will
help Google and Android supporters in possible legal disputes.  Google’s move may prompt Apple, Samsung or Microsoft to go
after RIM for its intellectual property, Misek said.  “Apple has to respond, in my view, and to bulk up its
patents a little more,” Misek said in an interview. “They have
cash. There has to be a response. So do Microsoft and Samsung.”  Apple spokeswomen  Natalie Harrison  and  Trudy Muller  didn’t
immediately return messages seeking comment. A spokesman for
Microsoft declined to comment.  Investor Pressure  As a patent holder, RIM may be a less attractive
acquisition target than other wireless companies,  Michael Mahoney , senior managing director at Falcon Point Capital LLC,
said in an interview.  “RIM is losing in the marketplace in the developed
world,” Mahoney said. “In my view, RIM is highly unlikely to
emerge a winner in the technology race. I don’t think their
patent portfolio is likely to cover the most cutting-edge
technology. The breadth of what Motorola has developed is orders
of magnitude higher.”  Investors and analysts have called on RIM to change
strategy as it loses ground. In June, shareholder Northwest &
Ethical Investments LP proposed splitting the roles of chairman
and CEO at RIM to increase board oversight, though the firm
later withdrew the proposal to provide time for further study.
In July,  Mike Abramsky , an analyst with  RBC Capital Markets  in
Toronto, said the company should consider strategic options,
such as splitting its network and handset businesses.  Need for Partner  In July, the company announced plans to cut 2,000 jobs, or
about a tenth of its workforce. In August, the company announced
three new versions of its BlackBerry smartphone in an effort to
regain traction.  RIM’s most logical partners are Microsoft and Samsung, said
 Tavis McCourt , an analyst with Morgan Keegan in Nashville.
Still, RIM may not yet be willing to change from its existing
strategy, he said.  “RIM’s management needs to come to the conclusion that
they need a partner and I’m not sure that’s happened yet,” said
McCourt in an interview. “Long term, everybody is looking for a
dance partner and RIM had better find one. This is getting to be
a business where you need to be really big to compete.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland, Oregon, at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  