-- 
Knights of Columbus File Amended Complaint in BNY Mortgage Security Case

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 
2011-08-16T22:35:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/bny-sued-by-knights-of-columbus-for-mortgage-trust-role-1-.html
Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) ,
targeted by  New York  for allegedly violating state law while
representing mortgage-bond investors, was accused by Knights of
Columbus of damaging its investment in mortgage securities.  Knights of Columbus, a charitable organization that
invested in mortgage-backed securities, seeks to recover losses
and demands punitive damages from the bank, according to an
amended complaint filed today in New York state court in
Manhattan.  Bank of New York, which serves as trustee for trusts
holding loans underlying mortgage securities, mismanaged the
trust assets, Knights of Columbus said in a statement today. It
accused the bank in the complaint of gross negligence and
recklessness and said the bank’s actions caused a
“substantial” loss.  “It is apparent that the defendant knowingly failed in its
obligation to receive, process, maintain, and hold all or part
of the mortgage files,” Knights of Columbus, based in  New
Haven ,  Connecticut , said. As a result, it didn’t acquire
mortgage-backed securities, “but instead acquired securities
backed by nothing at all,” the organization said.  Kevin Heine, a spokesman for Bank of New York, said the
complaint “is without merit.”  “We are confident we have fulfilled our responsibilities
as trustee,” he said.  ‘Documentation Deficiencies’  Earlier this month, New York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  accused Bank of New York of misleading investors
and violating state law in its role as trustee for bonds backed
by Countrywide Financial Corp. loans. Schneiderman said Bank of
New York knew of “loan documentation deficiencies.”  Countrywide’s failure to transfer complete mortgage loan
documentation to the trusts hampered the ability of the trusts
to foreclose on delinquent mortgages, impairing the value of the
securities backed by the mortgages, Schneiderman said.  Knights of Columbus first sued Bank of New York in May
seeking an accounting of two mortgage-securitization trusts to
obtain details about Bank of America Corp.’s foreclosure
practices and learn whether investors are entitled to recover
damages. Bank of America acts servicer for the loans, collecting
payments and conducting foreclosures, according to court papers.  The case is Knights of Columbus v. Bank of New York Mellon,
651442-2011, New York State Supreme Court ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  