-- 
Boeing-NLRB Case’s Judge Urges Haste as Board Stalemate Looms

-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 
2011-08-16T21:04:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/boeing-nlrb-case-s-judge-urges-haste-as-board-stalemate-looms.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  and the  National Labor
Relations Board  were urged by a judge today to move quickly in a
hearing over allegations of illegal retaliation against a union
because the shrinking board faces a looming stalemate.  One NLRB member’s term expires on Aug. 27, and another’s is
up in December. With one vacancy already, that will cut the
board to two members from a full complement of five. The U.S.
Supreme Court ruled last year that a two-member board can’t
issue rulings, so if any party makes a special appeal on one of
the judge’s intermediate decisions, the case could be
deadlocked.  “That will have consequences on this trial,”
Administrative Law Judge Clifford Anderson told lawyers today as
the hearing reconvened in  Seattle  after a two-week recess. “I
would very much like, from my greedy perspective, to move
along.”  The NLRB issued a complaint against Chicago-based Boeing in
April, and the hearing began in June, yet opening arguments
haven’t started. Lawyers are still wrangling over pre-
evidentiary matters such as subpoenas.  The NLRB claims that Boeing violated  labor laws  by deciding
to build a new 787 Dreamliner plant in  South Carolina , away from
unions in Seattle that had gone on strike. Boeing says the move
was made for financial reasons.  The judge, who has repeatedly pressed all sides to settle
matters on their own, ruled Aug. 12 on a protective order that
Boeing requested, after two weeks of negotiations failed to
produce an agreement. The judge ordered Boeing to provide most
of the documents the NLRB requested, unless it can prove on a
case-by-case basis that they are proprietary.  Old Contracts  The document exchange began today, and lawyers for the NLRB
and the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace
Workers complained that the box of documents contained nothing
related to the Dreamliner. About 80 percent of the papers were
copies of historic collective-bargaining agreements and the rest
were employee newsletters, Dave Campbell, a Seattle-based
attorney for the Machinists union, told the judge after a lunch
recess to look through the box.  “We are reluctantly coming to the conclusion that
respondent has no intention of providing decisional documents,”
Campbell said, adding that he may have to take the matter to
district court for enforcement.  Richard Hankins, an Atlanta-based lawyer with McKenna Long
& Aldridge LLP who is working for Boeing, told the judge that
Campbell’s speech was “histrionic” and said the company
already had produced more than 6,500 pages of documents.  Boeing’s lawyers said they will need another month to
provide documents subpoenaed by the NLRB.  Limited Options  President  Barack Obama  has limited options for filling the
three vacant spots on the labor board, which is charged with
enforcing the  National Labor Relations Act . Senate Republicans
have vowed to block any future nominations to the board, so
confirmation would require 60 votes in the 100-member Senate.  Obama also can’t make recess appointments unless the Senate
recesses. The Republican-controlled House is keeping the
Democrat-controlled Senate from adjourning, for that very
reason.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  