-- 
BofA, Other Banks Can Resume Servicing of New Jersey Mortgages, Court Says

-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-08-16T18:04:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/bofa-jpmorgan-other-banks-can-resume-uncontested-n-j-mortgage-servicing.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  and two other mortgage lenders and loan servicers
received approval from a New Jersey judge to resume uncontested
foreclosures in the state.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  also won permission in
an order yesterday by Superior Court Judge Mary Jacobson in
Trenton, New Jersey. Each had to show they have processes and
procedures in place to ensure that information in uncontested
foreclosures is based on a personal review of records. The judge
ordered the four lenders to undergo monitoring.  The lenders were among six whose practices came under
scrutiny Dec. 20, when Chief Justice Stuart Rabner of the New
Jersey Supreme Court said they were implicated in “robo-
signing,” in which foreclosure documents were automatically
signed without personal verification of the contents.  Jacobson set a hearing at the time on whether to suspend
uncontested foreclosures in the state. The move “is necessary
to protect the integrity of the judicial foreclosure process in
 New Jersey  and to assure the public that the process going
forward will be reliable,” Jacobson said in a court order.  The banks agreed to undergo a review by a special master.
That official, retired judge Richard Williams, found the banks’
practices would ensure that documents are submitted by those
authorized to act for the plaintiff in the foreclosure action
and that paperwork is based on personal review of records,
according to reports filed yesterday.  Foreclosure Recommendation  Williams recommended that the banks be allowed to resume
foreclosures.  The judge’s decision “reflects the court’s recognition of
the significant work we undertook beginning last fall to enhance
processes designed to ensure foreclosures are being processed
correctly,”  Dan Frahm , a spokesman for Bank of America, said in
an e-mail.  “We appreciate having had the opportunity to present
details about our procedures, and we are pleased with the result
announced yesterday,” a Citigroup spokesman,  Mark Rodgers , said
in an e-mail.  Theresa Schrettenbrunner, a Wells Fargo spokeswoman, said
that when the bank can’t help homeowners stay in their homes,
foreclosures prevent problems with vacant and unkempt dwellings.  ‘We Will Resume’  “Now that the New Jersey court has validated Wells Fargo’s
foreclosure processes, we will resume these practices for the
benefit of New Jersey’s communities,” she said by e-mail.  Tom Kelly , a JPMorgan spokesman, declined to comment
immediately.  Attorneys general  from all 50 states in October started
probing mortgage servicers after revelations that they may have
acted illegally in having employees sign affidavits that they
didn’t review. State and federal officials are negotiating a
settlement with the five largest mortgage servicers.  In announcing the review last year, Rabner said New Jersey
was the first U.S. state to take such an action. The state’s
courts received 21,752 new foreclosures in 2006 and 65,222 in
2010 through late December. Only 6 percent of cases were
contested last year, meaning 94 percent lacked “any meaningful
adversarial proceeding,” a court order said at the time.  Banks Not Included  The orders didn’t affect two banks subject to the review,
Ally Financial Inc. and OneWest Bank. Williams hasn’t provided
his reports on the two companies to Jacobson, according to
Winnie Comfort, a spokeswoman for the New Jersey courts.  The case is In the Matter of Residential Mortgage
Foreclosure Pleading and Document Irregularities, Superior Court
of New Jersey, Chancery Division-General Equity Part, F-59553-
10, Mercer County (Trenton).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in  Newark , New Jersey,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
David McLaughlin in  New York 
at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 