-- 
BofA Said to Weigh Foreclosure Pact That Allows New York Probe

-- B y   H u g h   S o n ,   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 
2011-08-17T04:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/bofa-weighs-foreclosure-deal-with-n-y-probe.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  may settle a
state and federal probe of foreclosure practices in a deal that
lets New York proceed with an inquiry into securitizations,
according to two people with direct knowledge of the talks.  The firm may pursue an accord with most of the 50 state
 attorneys general , even if it omits New York’s  Eric Schneiderman 
and at least two other states who are opposed because a deal
would impede related inquiries, said one of the people.
Negotiations on a broad settlement stalled after Schneiderman
indicated he wouldn’t let it block his probe into the bundling
and sale of mortgages, said the people, who declined to be
identified because talks are private.  Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan , seeking to
reverse a 44 percent stock slide this year, has booked about $30
billion in settlements and writedowns to clean up mortgage
liabilities at the biggest  U.S. bank  since the start of 2010.
One of the largest legal matters still pending is the multi-
state probe into whether firms servicing mortgages used bogus
documents to justify foreclosures.  “They need to resolve this because it’s looming out there
as an unknown liability,” said Brian Chappelle, a partner at
mortgage-finance consultancy Potomac Partners LLC in Washington
and former executive at the  Mortgage Bankers Association . “It’s
harming the housing recovery because the large institutions are
reluctant to originate new loans because of the uncertainty.”  Bank of America executives, concerned that a delay in
resolving the case is hurting the firm’s stock, are open to a
deal that would resolve most of it, even if some mortgage
investigations continue, said one of the people. The bank has
been pushing for liability releases for loan activities besides
servicing, such as securitization and lending.  Other States  Attorneys general from Delaware, Massachusetts and Nevada
have also voiced concern that a proposed settlement would
protect banks from mortgage investigations that aren’t yet
finished. Nevada Attorney General Catherine Cortez Masto, whose
office sued Bank of America and is conducting civil and criminal
foreclosure probes, said in an interview this week that she will
be “very cautious” about agreeing to a settlement that hinders
those inquiries.  Danny Kanner, a spokesman for Schneiderman, and Melissa
Karpinsky, a spokeswoman for Massachusetts Attorney General
 Martha Coakley , declined comment on Bank of America’s settlement
talks. Edie Cartwright, a spokeswoman for Masto, didn’t comment.
 Jason Miller , a spokesman for Delaware Attorney General  Beau Biden , didn’t respond to an e-mail.  Global Settlement  Negotiations with regulators and the five largest mortgage
servicers including Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
Citigroup Inc., Wells Fargo & Co. and Ally Financial Inc. have
bogged down over details of the proposed deal, which may cost
the firms a total of more than $20 billion, people with
knowledge of the talks have said. At least one of the banks
objected to the size of its share of the settlement, arguing
that its practices were better than others.  The holdup has spurred Bank of America to pursue talks with
some states separately from the larger group, two people with
knowledge of the matter said earlier this month. A settlement is
probably still at least weeks from being completed, one person
said.  The bank’s preference is still for a “global settlement,”
said  Dan Frahm , a spokesman for the Charlotte, North Carolina-
based lender, who declined to comment further.  Moynihan, 51, met with Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and Federal Reserve governor  Daniel Tarullo  in
 Washington  last week to press for a resolution to the
foreclosure talks, said the people. Moynihan had argued that
delays were interfering with a housing market’s recovery.  Servicing Standards  Officials are seeking a deal that sets standards for how
the banks service loans, interact with borrowers and conduct
foreclosures, according to terms proposed in March. They are
also seeking payments including fines.  “Attorney General Schneiderman remains concerned by any
settlement agreement that would preclude state attorneys general
from conducting comprehensive investigations of the mortgage
crisis,” his spokesman, Kanner, said last month in an e-mailed
statement.  Bank of America shares have been dogged by concerns that
mortgage expenses and a stagnating U.S. economy will crimp
profit and force it to bolster capital by selling new shares.
Moynihan has repeatedly said this year that the firm won’t need
to issue common stock. The company plunged 20 percent on Aug. 8
after a ratings downgrade of  U.S. debt  sparked concern that the
economy may stall into recession.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugh Son in  New York  at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  