-- 
BP Replaces Strategy Chief as Investors Look for Share Revival

-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 
2011-08-16T10:51:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/bp-replaces-strategy-head-as-investors-seek-share-revival-after-gulf-spill.html
BP Plc (BP/)  replaced its head of strategy
as the company looks at ways to boost a share price that’s
failed to recover from last year’s $41 billion  Gulf of Mexico 
oil spill disaster.  Fergus MacLeod, head of  investor relations  since 2002 and a
former Deutsche Bank AG oil analyst, took over the strategy team
from Ian Smale at the start of the month, according to London-
based BP spokesman  Robert Wine . The strategy team reports to
Chief Executive Officer  Robert Dudley .  Dudley said last month that “all options” are possible
after analysts said that splitting up the company could unlock
as much as $100 billion in value. The appointment of McLeod, who
continues to oversee BP’s relations with investors and analysts,
may be welcomed by shareholders unhappy that the company hasn’t
rebounded faster.  “MacLeod is credible and well-known in the City,” said
Colin McLean, chief executive officer at SVM Asset Management
Ltd. in Edinburgh, who oversees about $900 million in securities
including BP shares. “I don’t think people will be unhappy with
the choice. The stock has flat-lined over the past year, and we
would have expected more of a recovery.”  BP slipped below 400 pence a share last week for the first
time in 11 months and has fallen 12 percent this year, outpacing
Royal Dutch Shell Plc’s 7.3 percent drop. The stock is trading
more than 37 percent below the pre-spill level of 658 pence,
even though Brent crude prices are more than 25 percent higher.  ConocoPhillips  U.S. oil company ConocoPhillips said last month month it
will spin off its refining operations in the first half of 2012
to focus on exploration and production in  Texas ,  Norway ,  China 
and the U.K. Its plan follows a similar move announced by
Marathon Oil Corp. at the start of the year.  Dudley has yet to resume drilling new wells in the Gulf of
Mexico, where BP is the largest producer, as the company
implements higher safety and drilling standards than regulators
require. Earnings missed estimates in the second quarter as
production fell 11 percent.  “People may be willing to give Dudley a longer
honeymoon,” said McLean. “But the easy bits have been done and
investors will certainly want to see some production growth. If
BP can recommence in the Gulf, it will lift shares.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  