-- 
Brazil Weaker Than Forecast Job Growth Another Sign of Cooling Economy

-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 
2011-08-16T15:11:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/brazil-weaker-than-forecast-job-growth-another-sign-of-cooling-economy.html
Brazil ’s rate of job creation slowed
in July to its lowest level since March, adding to evidence that
 Latin America ’s largest economy is cooling.  Brazil generated 140,563 registered jobs in July, down from
215,393 in June. The number was lower than all 10 forecasts in a
Bloomberg survey of 10 economists. In the same month in 2010 the
economy added 181,796 jobs.  Today’s number reinforces the view that the central bank
will this month call a halt to a cycle of interest rate
increases that began in January and have raised the benchmark
Selic to 12.50 percent, said  Zeina Latif , a senior economist
with RBS Securities Inc. in Sao Paulo.  “The next move will be to cut rates in the first half of
next year, assuming there is lower credit creation, and assuming
that the global crisis is indeed going to reduce growth,” Latif
said, speaking by telephone from  Sao Paulo .  Labor Minister Carlos Lupi told reporters in Brasilia that
the job creation number was not as good as he had hoped. The
number is likely to improve in August, he added, renewing his
forecast that the country will create 3 million formal jobs this
year.  Brazil’s industrial production fell 1.6 percent in June,
the second-biggest drop in output since 2008, and business
confidence in the second quarter fell to its lowest level since
2009. The purchasing manufacturer’s index, an indicator of the
strength of manufacturing activity, fell in July to its lowest
level in nearly two years.  Global Slump  The global slowdown is driving down commodities prices and
curbing inflation expectations in Brazil, causing traders to bet
that the central bank will cut borrowing costs a quarter point
this year.  As recently as July 15, futures showed the central bank
would raise borrowing costs for the sixth time this year on Aug.
31 to bring annual inflation down from a six-year high.  The yield on the interest rate futures contract maturing in
January 2012 rose 1 basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to
12.29 percent at 11:11 a.m. New York time.  Unemployment remained close to record lows in the first
half of the year, after the economy grew 7.5 percent, its
fastest pace in more than two decades, in 2010. Unemployment
fell to 6.2 percent in June from 7 percent a year earlier.  Economists covering the Brazilian economy cut their 2011
and 2012 inflation forecasts for a second straight week in the
most recent central bank survey, as commodity prices tumbled 4.8
percent this month, according to the Standard & Poor’s GSCI
Index.  Government-registered  job creation  number is a balance of
posts created minus job eliminated. Registered jobs, so-called
formal work, assure employees a range of benefits such as
 unemployment insurance , bonuses and retirement payments by the
government.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net 
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  