-- 
Britain’s Pound Gains Versus Euro After U.K. Inflation Accelerates to 4.4%

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-08-16T15:41:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/britain-s-pound-snaps-3-day-rally-versus-dollar-before-u-k-inflation-data.html
The pound strengthened against the
euro after a report showed U.K. inflation accelerated more than
economists forecast, reducing the likelihood the central bank
will inject further monetary stimulus into the economy.  Sterling advanced against 13 of its 16 major counterparts
after the  Office for National Statistics  said consumer-price
inflation quickened to an annual 4.4 percent in July from 4.2
percent the previous month. Economists had predicted 4.3
percent, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.
Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  maintained his view that
inflation would slow below target as global financial turmoil
curtails growth.  “Raising rates just doesn’t make sense in this economic
environment but I doubt very much that there will be further
quantitative easing,” said Mike Berg, a foreign-exchange
strategist at 4Cast Ltd. in London. “Central banks across the
world are at a loss as to how to stimulate economic growth
without letting inflation get out of hand. Sterling remains
trapped.”  The pound gained 0.5 percent to 87.71 pence per euro at
4:33 p.m. in  London , its fourth gain in five days. Sterling rose
for a fourth straight day against the dollar, climbing 0.2
percent to $1.6422, erasing an earlier 0.4 percent drop.
Britain’s currency traded at 126 yen from a previous close of
125.93 yen.  Investors are betting the Bank of England will refrain from
raising  interest rates  until after July next year, data from
Tullett Prebon Plc on forward contracts for the sterling
overnight interbank average, or Sonia, show. As recently as
February, the data indicated traders were betting on a rate
increase this May.  ‘Particular Concern’  “Recent developments in world stock markets and in the
euro area are of particular concern,” King said in a letter to
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne , after inflation kept
above the central bank’s 3 percent ceiling. There’s a risk of
“severe stress and dislocation in financial markets and, were
this risk to crystallize, it would have a significant impact on
the U.K. economy,” he wrote  “The BOE definitely can’t afford to consider QE with
inflation at these levels,” said Elizabeth Gregory, a Geneva-
based market strategist at Swissquote Bank SA. “It’s one thing
having to write a letter to the chancellor explaining that CPI
is more than double its intended target when you are passively
letting it happen, it’s quite another to be doing so while
actively stoking inflation higher with quantitative easing.”  BOE Minutes  The  Bank of England  will tomorrow publish minutes of its
Aug. 3-4 policy meeting, when it left its benchmark interest
rate on hold at 0.5 percent.  The yield on the 10-year gilt rose two basis points to 2.55
percent, after earlier falling to 2.51 percent. Two-year yields
declined two basis points to 0.65 percent.  Osborne said on Aug. 11 the U.K.’s recovery will “take
longer and be harder,” while King signaled a day earlier that
he may resume pumping cash into the economy to boost growth.  Britain’s economy will expand 1.2 percent this year,
compared with a projected 3.4 percent in  Germany  and a 1.8
percent increase in the U.S., Bloomberg surveys show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  