-- 
British Commuters Face Rail Fare Squeeze on Higher Inflation

-- B y   B e n   E d w a r d s
-- 
2011-08-16T13:49:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/british-commuters-face-rail-fare-squeeze-on-higher-inflation-1-.html
U.K. rail commuters will pay about 8
percent more for their season tickets next year, with a possible
extra hike on top, based on today’s inflation figures.  Fare increases are pegged to the Retail Price Index
inflation measure, which remained at 5 percent in July,
according to today’s data. For the next three years, an extra 3
percent will be added to all regulated fares instead of the
current formula of RPI plus 1 percent. Some fares may increase
by another 5 percent on top, as long as operators balance that
with reductions elsewhere.  An annual season ticket from Surbiton, a suburb in  London ’s
commuter belt, to London Waterloo will increase about 123 pounds
($201) to 1,671 pounds a year, based on current prices listed on
the National Rail website.  “We’re already paying some of the highest fares in
 Europe ,” Guy Dangerfield, a spokesman for Passenger Focus, a
U.K. passenger watchdog, said today in a telephone interview.
“In this country it costs around a third more than a comparable
railway service elsewhere in Europe.”  In May, Transport Secretary Philip Hammond said U.K. rail
operators should slash costs by 30 percent to rein in fares,
citing a report that showed a 40 percent efficiency gap on the
train network when compared with services in  France , the
Netherlands,  Sweden  and  Switzerland .  “Increasing the money raised from fares will mean that
taxpayers contribute less to the running of the railways,”
David Mapp, commercial director at the Association of Train
Operating Companies, said in a statement on its website.  The Rail, Maritime and Transport Union said it is “utterly
opposed” to the fare increases. “It’s shabby to suggest this
is about improving services, it’s about protecting the profits
of privateers who take money out of the industry,” a spokesman
for RMT said today in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Edwards in London at 
 bedwards35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at  