-- 
Calpers Lowers Target for Real Estate Investments, Boosts Stocks, Bonds

-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-08-16T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/california-pension-lowers-target-for-real-estate-investments-boosts-stock.html
The California Public Employees
Retirement System, the largest U.S. pension, will lower its goal
for real-estate investments for the rest of the year and put
greater reliance on stocks and bonds.  Calpers’s investment committee in Sacramento voted to lower
the $226.1 billion fund’s  goal  for real estate as a proportion
of assets to 8 percent from 10 percent. Stocks were raised 1
percentage point to 50 percent, and bonds by 3 percentage points
to 19 percent.  Real-estate holdings were valued at $18.5 billion as of
Aug. 12, with equities at $112 billion and fixed-income assets
at $41.3 billion, according to data on Calpers’s website. Stocks
and private-equity gains led to a 20.7 percent return in the 12
months ended June 30, the best result in 14 years.  “We’re trying to maintain some program discipline,” said
 Joe Dear , the chief investment officer. “One way to do that is
to take some pressure off the target.”  Real estate accounted for 7.8 percent of the Calpers
portfolio as of June 30, according to a  staff report  to the
investment committee. The system lagged behind its target
because real-estate holdings suffered “significant writedowns”
during the housing bubble, the report noted.  Calpers was about $5 billion short of meeting its 10
percent goal. That would require the fund to purchase properties
whose prices have become too high to provide adequate returns,
according to the staff report.  Market Demand  “Given the market demand for real estate, deploying an
additional $5 billion in net exposure (likely ~$10 billion in
gross exposure) at fair prices will take a considerable amount
of time,” according to a  memo  from Andrew Junkin, managing
director and principal at  Santa Monica , California-based
Wilshire Associates, to investment Chairman George Diehr.
“Thus, the underweight will persist for some meaningful amount
of time, especially since staff has been focusing more over the
past few years on disposing of problem assets and improving the
quality of the existing portfolio than on making new
investments.”  The Calpers real-estate strategy is focused on “core,
cash-generating properties,” wrote Paul Mouchakkaa, managing
director of Pension Consulting Alliance Inc., in a separate  memo 
to the investment committee. Such properties are in high demand,
driving up prices, he wrote.  The  changes  approved yesterday also reduce the target for
infrastructure and forestland to 2 percent of assets from 3
percent, and for inflation-linked assets to 3 percent from 4
percent. The policy is retroactive to July 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in  Sacramento  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  