-- 
California July Revenue Missed Budget Forecast by 9.2%, State Agency Says

-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-08-16T21:58:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/california-revenue-fell-541-million-below-july-forecast-state-reports.html
California revenue fell short of
budget estimates by $541 million or 9.2 percent last month, the
first of the 2012 fiscal year, the state Finance Department
reported.  The data was in line with figures from Controller John Chiang, who said Aug. 9 that cash receipts for the month missed
the forecast by $538.8 million. Chiang said the miss may mean
further budget cuts are needed for fiscal 2012.  Of the $541 million shortfall in the Finance Department
calculation, $166 million was likely due mostly “to the timing
of deposits,” according to the Finance Department bulletin. The
amount included receipts from tribal gaming and regulatory fees.  Chiang, a Democrat, warned of “drastic” cuts to
universities, home health care and social programs if the trend
continued. A series of “triggers” written into the most-
populous state’s $86 billion general-fund budget would cut
spending in those areas as well as libraries if revenue falls $1
billion short of plan. A $2 billion gap would mean a seven-day
cut in the school year and an end to busing subsidies.  New forecasts for revenue in the current spending plan will
be drawn up in November and December “based on the economic and
cash data available at those times,” H.D. Palmer, a Finance
Department spokesman, said by e-mail. The new forecasts “will
determine whether the ‘trigger’ budget reductions will be
implemented.”  Later Data Key  The Finance Department bulletin said the personal income-
tax and corporate tax payments between December and July 2012
will play a major role in determining whether the state
ultimately hits its target.  Brown signed the budget in June after failing to persuade
Republican lawmakers to agree to let voters decide whether to
extend expiring levy and fee increases. The plan cut spending by
$12 billion and counted on a recovering economy to deliver $4
billion in extra  tax revenue .  In July, the retail-sales levy dropped to 7.25 percent from
8.25 percent and vehicle-registration fees fell to 0.65 percent
of value from 1.15 percent as the temporary measures ended.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in  Sacramento  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  