-- 
Canada July Existing Home Sales (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-08-16T13:07:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/canada-july-existing-home-sales-text-.html
According to statistics released
today by The  Canadian Real Estate Association  (CREA),
national resale housing activity was stable on a month-to-month
basis in July following an uptick in June.
Highlights:
• Sales activity was stable from June to July, but posted a big
year-over-year gain due to weakened demand in July 2010.
• Year-to-date sales continue to run in line with the ten-year
average.
• The number of newly listed homes inched up by less than one
per cent from June to July.
• The national housing market remains firmly entrenched in
balanced territory.
• The national average price posted the largest year-over-year
gain since April 2010, but was below where it stood in June.
• Upward skewing of the national average price is diminishing
due to fewer expensive sales and a declining share of
national activity in  Vancouver  and Toronto.  National home sales activity held steady in July 2011 compared
to the previous month, with just over half of local markets
posting month-over-month gains.  Major markets that saw gains compared to June include Edmonton,
 Montreal , as well as Newfoundland and Labrador. Activity also
held steady in Toronto, while Vancouver recorded a small
decline.  “The continued stability in national sales activity shows that
homebuyers remain confident about the soundness of investing in
a home,” said Gary Morse, CREA’s President. “Mortgage interest
rates are low and keeping home affordability within reach,
making it an excellent time for buyers to take advantage of very
favourable financing. Prices and affordability evolve
differently among local markets, so buyers and sellers should
consult their local REALTOR to better understand how the outlook
for housing supply, demand, and prices is shaping up in their
housing market.”  Actual (not seasonally adjusted) sales activity came in 12.3
per cent above national levels reported one year earlier. This
increase reflects weakened activity in July 2010, when levels
for the month reached their lowest point since 2002.  A total of 284,537 homes have traded hands via Canadian
MLS Systems so far this year. This stands just 1.6 per
cent below levels in the first seven months of last year, and
continues to run in line with the ten-year average.  The number of newly listed homes edged up by less than
one per cent from June to July. New listings were down in
60 per cent of local markets, but increased in many large
urban centres including Toronto, Vancouver,  Edmonton , and
Ottawa.  The national housing market remains firmly planted in
balanced territory. The national sales-to-new listings ratio, a
measure of market balance, stood at 51.8 per cent in July,
which is little changed from 52.3 per cent in June.  Based on a sales-to-new listings ratio of between 40 to 60
percent, about three in every five local markets in Canada were
balanced in July. Half of the remaining markets may be
classified as sellers’ markets, with a sales-to-new listings
ratio of above 60 per cent.  The number of months of inventory stood at 6.1 months at the end
of July on a national basis, which is little changed from the
end of June (6.0 months). The number of months of inventory
represents the number of months it would take to sell current
inventories at the current rate of sales activity, and is
another measure of the balance between housing supply and
demand.  The actual (not seasonally adjusted) national average price for
homes sold in July 2011 stood at $361,181, which is the lowest
level since January. While up 9.3 per cent from its year-ago
level, the increase reflects a short-lived decline in the
average price following the introduction of the HST in B.C. and
Ontario, and tighter mortgage regulations earlier in 2010.  “Earlier this year, the national average price was being skewed
upward by sales in some expensive Vancouver neighbourhoods, but
this factor is now diminishing,” said Gregory Klump, CREA’s
Chief Economist. “Upward skewing of the national average price
is also shrinking due to overall sales trends in Vancouver, and
most recently in Toronto. Their market shares as a percentage of
provincial and national sales activity are declining from the
elevated levels seen in the first half of the year.”  “Changes in the national average home price are open to being
misinterpreted,” added Klump. “They often signify changes in the
mix of sales activity across and within local markets, rather
than a rising or falling price trend for typical homes in a
specific market.”  “The national share of sales activity in some of  Canada ’s more
expensive urban centres may retreat further from elevated levels
recorded earlier this year, resulting in an easing trend for the
national average home price,” he added. “Even so, the stability
of Canada’s housing market will likely continue to stand in
stark contrast to further expected volatility in financial
markets.”  PLEASE NOTE: The information contained in this news release
combines both major market and national MLS® sales
information from the previous month.  CREA cautions that average price information can be useful in
establishing trends over time, but does not indicate actual
prices in centres comprised of widely divergent neighborhoods or
account for price differential between geographic areas.
Statistical information contained in this report includes all
housing types.  MLS® is a co-operative marketing system used only by Canada’s
real estate Boards to ensure maximum exposure of properties
listed for sale.  The Canadian Real Estate Association (CREA) is one of Canada’s
largest single-industry trade associations, representing more
than 100,000 REALTORS® working through more than 100 real estate
Boards and Associations.  Further information can be found at
 http://www.crea.ca/public/news_stats/media.htm .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  