-- 
Canada June Manufacturing Sales Report (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-08-16T12:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/canada-june-manufacturing-sales-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
 Canada 's manufacturing shipments report for June released
by  Statistics Canada .  Manufacturing sales fell 1.5% (-$713 million) in June
to $45.3 billion, the lowest level since November 2010.
Sales have declined for three consecutive months after
growing steadily since May 2009.  Constant dollar manufacturing sales were down 1.6% in
June.  Sales of durable goods declined 1.9% in June, while
sales of non-durable goods were 1.2% lower. In particular,
sales were down in the petroleum and coal product,
miscellaneous, and machinery industries.  Lower sales were reported in 15 of 21 industries,
representing 77.5% of total manufacturing. In June, six
provinces reported declines.  Petroleum and coal sales behind much of June's decrease  Sales of petroleum and coal products fell 6.6% in June
to $5.8 billion. The decrease reflected price declines of
2.6% and lower volumes as a result of ongoing shutdowns
for retooling at various plants.  Miscellaneous manufacturing sales fell 16.1% in June
after rising 2.4% in May. The decline mainly reflected a
drop in sales by manufacturers of jewellery and
silverware.  Machinery manufacturing sales declined 4.2% in June
after a 7.8% increase in May. Despite the drop, machinery
sales remained strong and have risen in 14 of the past 17
months.  On the upside, sales in the  chemical industry  rose
5.8%, reflecting gains in the pesticide, fertilizer and
other agricultural chemical industry.  Manufacturing sales decline in most provinces  Manufacturing sales were down in six provinces in June,
with Ontario,  Quebec , and Newfoundland and Labrador
reporting the largest sales decreases.  In Ontario, sales fell 2.0% as 17 of 21 industries
reported declines. The greatest decreases came in the
miscellaneous, food, and transportation equipment
industries.  Sales in Quebec declined 1.6% in June, as a result of
decreases in petroleum and coal products, primary metals,
and computer and electronic products. Increases in food
and machinery sales partially offset the declines.  Sales in Newfoundland and Labrador fell 26.9% in June,
as a result of declines in non-durable goods. It was the
third consecutive monthly decline.  Manitoba posted the largest sales growth in June, up
3.9%. The increase was driven by advances in the chemical,
primary metal, and machinery industries.  Inventory levels flat for June  After 12 consecutive months of growth, inventory levels
were unchanged in June, remaining at their highest level
since April 2009.  Increased inventories were reported by manufacturers in
the machinery (+2.2%), food (+2.1%) and miscellaneous
(+5.1%) industries.  These increases were offset by declines in the
petroleum and coal product (-3.6%) and chemical (-1.8%)
industries.  The inventory-to-sales ratio increased from 1.37 in May
to 1.39 in June, the highest level since December 2009.
The ratio has been rising steadily since January 2011.  Unfilled orders rise again  Unfilled orders advanced 3.4% in June to $58.9 billion,
the sixth consecutive monthly increase.  The increase in unfilled orders was concentrated in the
aerospace product and parts industry (+6.9%). This
increase partly reflected the depreciation of the Canadian
dollar. Excluding the  aerospace industry , unfilled orders
increased 0.4% to $30.4 billion.  The largest decrease occurred in the primary metal
industry, where unfilled orders fell 9.1% from May.  New orders increased 1.6% in June to $47.3 billion, led
by gains in the aerospace product and parts industry. The
increase was partially offset by declines in petroleum and
coal product, primary metal and miscellaneous goods.  Note to readers  All data in this release are seasonally adjusted and
are expressed in current dollars unless otherwise
specified.  Preliminary data are provided for the current reference
month. Revised data, based on late responses, are updated
for the three previous months.  Non-durable goods industries include food, beverage and
tobacco products, textile mills, textile product mills,
clothing, leather and allied products, paper, printing and
related support activities, petroleum and coal products,
chemicals, and plastics and rubber products.  Durable goods industries include wood products, non-
metallic mineral products, primary metal, fabricated metal
products, machinery, computer and electronic products,
electrical equipment, appliances and components,
transportation equipment, furniture and related products
and miscellaneous manufacturing.  Production-based industries  For the aerospace industry and shipbuilding industries,
the value of production is used instead of sales of goods
manufactured. This value is calculated by adjusting
monthly sales of goods manufactured by the monthly change
in inventories of goods in process and finished products
manufactured.  Unfilled orders are a stock of orders that will
contribute to future sales assuming that the orders are
not cancelled.  New orders are those received whether sold in the
current month or not. New orders are measured as the sum
of sales for the current month plus the change in unfilled
orders from the previous month to the current month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  