-- 
Canadian Dollar Depreciates on Anemic European Growth, Crude Oil Decline

-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r   a n d   J o e   R a g a z z o
-- 
2011-08-16T21:18:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/canadian-dollar-depreciates-on-anemic-european-growth-crude-oil-decline.html
Canada ’s dollar fell the most in
almost a week as crude oil declined and European expansion
slowed more than forecast, adding to evidence the global
recovery is in jeopardy.  The loonie, as the currency is sometimes known, has lost
4.4 percent against the greenback since reaching a three-year
high on July 26. Canada’s dollar has weakened on speculation
tepid global growth will hinder demand for the nation’s exports.
Inflation slowed in July, a report later this week is forecast
to show.  “The risk-off session with global stocks and commodities
being lower, along with some weaker-than-expected Canadian data
today, has led to the loonie’s weaker tone against the
greenback,” said  Joe Manimbo , a market analyst in  Washington  at
Travelex Global Business Payments, a currency-exchange network.  The Canadian dollar depreciated 0.3 percent to 98.24 cents
per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto, from 97.92 cents
yesterday. It weakened as much as 0.8 percent, the biggest
intraday drop since Aug. 10. The currency rallied on July 26 to
94.07 cents, the strongest since November 2007, before plunging
to C$1.0010 on Aug. 9. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0179.  The loonie briefly pared losses as German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said they were
working on “ambitious” joint proposals to defend the euro. It
slid after they rejected a mechanism for the euro region to
jointly issue bonds to contain its sovereign-debt crisis.  ‘Short-Lived’ Rally  “It was initially a positive for risky assets, but the
rally proved to be short-lived,” Manimbo said.  The Canadian dollar and the currencies of two other
commodities exporters, the Australian dollar and the South
African rand, were the worst performers against the greenback
after the Swiss franc. Crude oil for September delivery fell 0.8
percent to $87.15 a barrel in New York trading. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index dropped 1 percent.  Canadian manufacturing sales dropped 1.5 percent in June,
more than double the 0.7 percent decline in the median forecast
in a Bloomberg News survey, according to data released today by
 Statistics Canada .  The  consumer price index , a measure of inflation, rose 2.8
percent in July from a year earlier, after a 3.1 percent gain in
the previous month, according to forecasts from economists in a
separate Bloomberg survey. The statistics agency is due to
release the data on Aug. 19.  ‘Good Buy’  “Around the 99-cent level, we’ll start to see a lot of the
U.S. dollar sellers come out of the woodwork: Canadian
corporates looking to do some longer-term hedging,” said Blake Jespersen, director of foreign exchange in Toronto at Bank of
Montreal’s BMO Capital Markets unit, in a telephone interview.
“You see good interest from reserve managers as well, generally
Asian, some South American. The view is that the setback in the
market will be short-term, and the Canadian dollar is a good buy
on any weakness.”  Canada’s currency pared earlier declines after government
data showed U.S. industrial production rose in July by the most
this year, and  Fitch Ratings  affirmed America’s AAA credit
rating, saying the outlook was stable.  That tempered data from the European Union’s statistics
office in Luxembourg that showed gross domestic product in the
euro area rose 0.2 percent in the second quarter, from a 0.8
percent expansion in the first quarter. The median forecast of
economists in a Bloomberg survey was for 0.3 percent expansion.  Canadian  government bonds  rose, pushing the benchmark two-
year note yield down two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point,
to 0.99 percent. The yield touched 0.783 percent on Aug. 9, the
lowest in Bloomberg records dating to 1989. The price of the 2
percent security due in August 2013 rose 4 cents to C$101.96.  Canada’s two-year note yield narrowed one basis point to 81
basis points above the equivalent-maturity U.S. security. The
so-called spread shrank last week to 55 basis points, the
tightest since February 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Ragazzo in New York at 
 jragazzo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  