-- 
Carl Lewis Can’t Appear on New Jersey State Senate Ballot, Official Says

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-08-16T21:43:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/carl-lewis-can-t-appear-on-new-jersey-state-senate-ballot-official-says.html
Olympic gold medalist Carl Lewis
can’t appear on the general election ballot for  New Jersey ’s
state senate because he hasn’t met residency requirements, the
state’s top elections official said.  Absent a decision from a court to the contrary, Lewis
wasn’t a resident of the state for the constitutionally required
four years prior to the general election in November, Secretary
of State Kimberly Guadagno said yesterday in a letter to three
county clerks in the state’s eighth legislative district.  “I am statutorily required to make and certify a statement
of all candidates for whom voters ‘may be by law entitled to
vote’ in November,” Guadagno said in the letter obtained by
Bloomberg News. “In view of my statutory obligations, I cannot
certify the name of Frederick Carlton ‘Carl’ Lewis.”  A hearing is scheduled for Aug. 19, William Tambussi, an
attorney for Lewis, said today in an e-mail.  Lewis, a 49-year-old Democrat, persuaded the  U.S. Court of
Appeals  in Philadelphia to stay an April 26 ruling by Guadagno
that found him ineligible to run for office because of residency
requirements. The ruling temporarily allowed Lewis’s name on the
ballot for the June 7 primary election until a district court
judge could decide the constitutionality of the state’s
residency provision as it was applied to the former athlete.  ‘Unilateral Political Tactic’  “This eleventh hour, unilateral political tactic is
further evidence of the Secretary of State’s utter disregard of
the facts,” Tambussi said in an e-mail. “Mr. Lewis’ position
from the outset has been and remains that the election should be
in the hands of the voters and not a political actor.”  Lewis, who grew up in New Jersey before moving to Texas and
 California , is fighting to represent a district that has
traditionally elected Republicans. Incumbent Dawn Marie Addiego,
a Republican, was appointed to fill the vacancy left by Phil Haines, who was tapped for a judgeship.  The nine-time Olympic gold medalist argued that he bought a
home in New Jersey in 2005, which made him a state resident. He
got a state driver’s license in 2006 and became a volunteer
assistant track coach at Willingboro High School, his alma
mater, in 2007. Guadagno, a Republican who is also the
lieutenant governor, said the record showed Lewis didn’t buy his
current home until Nov. 16, 2007, eight days after the cutoff.  The federal case is Lewis v. Guadagno, 1:11-cv-02381, U.S.
District Court, District of New Jersey (Camden).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Wilmington at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 