-- 
Chelsea to Go Back to Spurs With $49 Million Modric Offer: Soccer Roundup

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-08-16T06:54:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/chelsea-to-go-back-to-spurs-with-49-million-modric-offer-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Blues Go Back  Chelsea will go back to London rival Tottenham with a new
30 million-pound ($49 million) bid for midfielder Luka Modric,
the Sun  reported .  The Blues will offer 30 million pounds in cash or 27
million pounds plus Yossi Benayoun, who is not against a move to
White Hart Lane, the newspaper said. Chelsea already bid 22
million pounds and 27 million pounds for Modric, the Sun added.  Meireles Move  Chelsea also is considering a move for Liverpool midfielder
 Raul Meireles , whom Blues coach Andre Villas-Boas sees as an
ideal foil for Modric, the  Daily Mail   reported .  Liverpool is willing to sell the Portuguese international
to help offset its off-season spending on players and wants
close to 12 million pounds for the 28-year-old, the Mail said.  Anelka Wants Out  Nicolas Anelka wants to leave Chelsea after being
overlooked in favor of fellow striker  Fernando Torres , the Daily
Mirror  reported .  The 32-year-old French forward, who has a year remaining on
his contract, is ready to listen to offers as Villas-Boas builds
his team around club-record signing Torres, the newspaper said.  Gerrard Returns  Steven Gerrard  will return to light training this week as
the Liverpool captain continues his recovery from the infection
that’s prevented him from starting the season, the Guardian
 reported .  The midfielder, who hasn’t featured for Liverpool since
March following groin surgery and a subsequent infection related
to the operation, “will be stepping up his recovery this
week,” the Guardian cited Liverpool manager Kenny Dalglish as
saying. Gerrard is targeting a comeback in mid-September, the
newspaper added.  Striker Signing  Tottenham manager  Harry Redknapp  has been told by Spurs
Chairman  Daniel Levy  to make his next signing a striker, the
Mirror  reported .  Levy wants to use the club’s available transfer funds on a
forward, then do some selling before bringing in the other
players Redknapp has targeted, the Mirror said. Manchester City
striker Emmanuel Adebayor may join on loan once the two clubs
work out how to pay his wages, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  