-- 
China Slowing ‘Significantly’: Conference Board

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-16T04:50:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/china-economy-slowing-significantly-conference-board.html
China  will achieve a “soft
landing” even as growth moderates after the government
tightened monetary policy, the  Conference Board  said as its main
indicator for the economy rose.  The New York-based researcher’s leading economic index for
China increased 1 percent in June, it said in a release today.
The index climbed 0.6 percent in May and 0.3 percent in April.  The gain may ease concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis and a
weakening U.S. recovery will weigh on growth in the world’s
second-largest economy. China’s benchmark stock index has
retreated 14 percent from its April high as the government
stepped up efforts to cool the fastest inflation in three years.  “The economy is significantly moderating right now and also
over the next couple of months,” Bart van Ark, the
organization’s chief economist, told Bloomberg Television from
 New York  today. “We still expect it to be pretty much a soft
landing.”  The Shanghai Composite Index fell 0.3 percent as of the
11:30 a.m. local time break in trading.  Inflows of capital from trade and investment may help to
sustain growth, while complicating central bank efforts to
control the  money supply  and restrain inflation. Foreign direct
investment rose 20 percent to $8.3 billion in July, the commerce
ministry said in a statement today.  Reserve Requirements  The Chinese economy is cooling after the government raised
 interest rates  and banks’ reserve requirements and extended
curbs on the real-estate market, adding to concerns about the
outlook for the global economy.  Christine Lagarde , the
International Monetary Fund’s managing director, today urged
developed countries to support economic growth even as they make
fiscal cuts.  The nation’s expansion may slow to 9.2 percent in the third
quarter from 9.5 percent in the previous three months, the China
Securities Journal reported today, citing the State Information
Center.  Beyond six months, the Chinese economy may face “more
problems” as a result of bank lending that remains at levels
that are probably not sustainable, van Ark said. The nation
needs to shift to more of a consumer economy and to build more
“social infrastructure rather than the hard infrastructure,” he
said.  “Growth in China is actually slowing more seriously than
the headline numbers suggest,” Kevin Lai, an economist at Daiwa
Capital Markets in Hong Kong, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview today. He said that trade volumes showed demand
slowing “sharply” in China and the world.  A slowdown in Hong Kong has highlighted the threat of
another global slump as weakness in the  U.S. economy  and a debt
crisis in Europe cap demand for exports. The city last week
reported that gross domestic product contracted in the second
quarter from the previous three months.  “For the advanced economies, there is an unmistakable need
to restore fiscal sustainability through credible consolidation
plans,” Lagarde wrote in the Financial Times. “At the same
time we know that slamming on the brakes too quickly will hurt
the recovery and worsen job prospects.”  --Susan Li, Zheng Lifei, with assistance from Victoria Ruan.
Editors: Paul Panckhurst, Ken McCallum.  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7570
 vruan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in  Hong Kong  at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  