-- 
China Finance Ministry Said to Begin Yuan Bond Sale Tomorrow

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-16T06:56:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/china-finance-ministry-said-to-begin-yuan-bond-sale-tomorrow-1-.html
China ’s Ministry of Finance plans to
start selling 20 billion yuan ($3.1 billion) of bonds in Hong
Kong tomorrow, according to a person familiar with the matter.  The two-part issue will consist of 15 billion yuan of notes
for institutional investors and 5 billion yuan of notes which
have been earmarked for individual investors, the person said,
asking not to be identified as details are private.  The sale will be the China’s Ministry of Finance’s third
and largest issue of yuan-denominated bonds in Hong Kong,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, as appreciation
prospects spur demand for the nation’s currency and policy
makers seek to promote its use in global trade and investment.  The Ministry of Finance last sold so-called dim sum bonds
in November 2010, when it raised 8 billion yuan by issuing 5
billion yuan of notes to institutional investors and 3 billion
yuan of debt to individuals,according to Bloomberg data. Its
first such sale was in September 2009 when 6 billion yuan was
raised, the data show.  This year’s institutional sale will be conducted via a
Dutch auction starting at 9:00 a.m.  Hong Kong  local time Aug.
17, the person said. The sale to individual investors will begin
Aug. 18 via participating banks in the city and should be
complete by the end of the month, the person said. A Dutch
auction is an offer in which investors can specify the price,
within a set range, at which they are willing to buy or sell.  Price Guidance  The 15 billion yuan sale will consist of 6 billion yuan of
three-year bonds, 5 billion yuan of 5-year bonds, 3 billion yuan
of seven-year bonds and 1 billion yuan of 10-year bonds, the
person said.  The three-year bonds are being offered to investors to
yield about 0.7 percent to 0.9 percent while the five-year notes
are being marketed in the area of 1.2 percent to 1.5 percent,
according to three people familiar with the matter.  The seven-year bonds may yield 1.7 percent to 2.2 percent
while the 10-year notes may yield 2.2 percent to 2.5 percent,
the three people said. The notes’ final price will be determined
via tomorrow’s auction.  Bank of Communications Co. is helping to organize the sale
to institutional investors, while  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and Bank of
China Ltd. are helping to organize the sale to individual
investors, according to the first person. Those five billion
yuan of notes will mature in two years, the person said.  Tomorrow’s auction ceremony will be attended by China’s
Vice Premier  Li Keqiang . During his visit he will discuss closer
cooperation with Hong Kong, he said, speaking after he arrived
at the city’s airport today.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net . 