-- 
Chinese Video Site Tudou Selling U.S. IPO at 62% Discount to Rival Youku

-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 
2011-08-16T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/chinese-video-site-tudou-selling-ipo-at-discount-to-rival-youku.html
Tudou Holdings Ltd.,  China ’s second-
biggest video website, is attempting a U.S. initial public
offering at a 62 percent discount to larger rival  Youku.com Inc. (YOKU) 
after equities plunged this month, sapping demand for new stock.  The Shanghai-based company is seeking to raise as much as
$180 million offering 6 million American depositary receipts for
$28 to $30 each, according to a regulatory filing. That values
the company at about 16 times sales in the 12 months through
March 31. Youku.com, which went public in the U.S. last year,
trades at a multiple of 41.  Tudou’s site offers user-generated videos much like Google
Inc.’s YouTube as well as licensed and proprietary content. The
company needs cash to invest in copyrighted movies and TV series
to gain visitors amid a crowded online-video market, according
to Shanghai-based RedTech Advisors LLC. Even at the steep
discount to Youku, Tudou’s price range is high, according to
David Menlow, president of Ipofinancial.com.  “It’s a little rich relative to what they have at this
point in terms of losses accumulating in the manner that they
are,” he said. The discount to Youku “could be the only reason
why people are interested in it.”  Tudou, which is losing market share even as it spends more
money, is attempting to complete its sale after 13 U.S. IPOs
were withdrawn or postponed from Aug. 7 to Aug. 12, the most in
a week since 2000, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. More
than $2 trillion was erased from U.S. equity values in the past
three weeks amid  Europe ’s debt crisis, signs the  U.S. economy  is
slowing, and a downgrade of the government’s credit rating.  Baidu Bid?  While U.S. stocks rose yesterday, erasing last week’s drop,
Tudou may be better off selling itself, Menlow said.  “If the stock is going to go down after the IPO, the
company would be better off to sell it at a lower price and sell
all of the shares,” he said. Last week, following a report that
Baidu Inc. had approached Tudou about a takeover, people with
knowledge of the situation said Tudou planned to press forward
with the share offering.  The company is tapping the public market for cash to
finance technology upgrades, bandwidth expansion and rights to
videos as it vies with Youku.com for visitors in the world’s
biggest online market. China had 485 million  Internet users  at
the end of June, according to  data  from the government-sponsored
China Internet Network Information Center. There were about 215
million U.S. Internet users in the U.S. as of July, according to
Reston, Virginia-based researcher ComScore Inc.  Getting Eyeballs  Tudou’s expenses to license videos for the site ballooned
to 68.2 million yuan in 2010, more than 11 times what it spent
in 2008, its filing shows. The cost of content and leasing
Internet bandwidth to deliver videos to users will continue to
increase, and the company may not achieve profitability,
according to the prospectus.  “It’s a land grab to go out and get eyeballs,” Scott Billeadeau, who helps oversee about $17 billion at Fifth Third
Asset Management in  Minneapolis , said of Tudou’s spending.
“It’s tough to assess, as the land grab is going on, whether
you’re paying the right price or you’re overpaying.”  At the same time, Tudou is losing market share. It
accounted for 14 percent of online-video advertising revenue at
the end of the second quarter, compared with 17 percent at the
end of 2010, while Youku gained two percentage points to 23
percent and Sohu.com Inc.’s video site jumped to 13 percent from
7.9 percent, according to data from researcher Analysys
International.  Another 28 percent of the market is split among five
competitors including Baidu’s Qiyi.com; a site operated by
Xunlei Ltd., which is part-owned by Google Inc.; and Nasdaq-
listed Ku6 Media Co., the data show.  Ad Revenue  “Tudou has to price at a pretty significant discount to
get investors interested” in a space that has too many
competitors, said Michael Clendenin, managing director at
RedTech Advisors.  The companies get most of their income from advertising
revenue, which for Chinese video sites almost  doubled  to 1
billion yuan ($157 million) in the second quarter, according to
Beijing-based Analysys. Tudou had 90 million registered users at
the end of June, according to its filing, compared with 35.6
million at the end of 2008.  Investors in Tudou include  Singapore ’s state investment
company Temasek Holdings Pte, which will trim its stake to 17
percent after the offering from 21 percent, according to the IPO
prospectus, and Crescent Point, which plans to trim its stake to
about 13 percent from 16 percent.  Accumulated Loss  The company has accumulated losses of $179 million since
the website launched in 2005, according to its filing, while
annual revenue has jumped more than 43-fold since 2007. Net
revenue, which excludes  sales tax , was about $53 million in the
12 months through March, according to the regulatory filing.  Youku, which has posted combined net losses of more than
$100 million since 2007, raised $233 million pricing its Dec. 7
IPO above the marketed range, and the shares surged 161 percent
in their  New York  Stock Exchange debut.  Each of Tudou’s ADRs will represent four Class B ordinary
shares and will trade on the Nasdaq Stock Market under the
symbol TUDO.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  are
leading the offering.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net . 