-- 
China’s Economy Slowing, Should Have ‘Soft Landing,’ Conference Board Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-16T01:30:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/china-s-economy-slowing-should-have-soft-landing-conference-board-says.html
Growth in  China , the world’s second-
biggest economy, is slowing “significantly,” according to The
Conference Board, a New York-based research organization.  “The economy is significantly moderating right now and
also over the next couple of months,” Bart van Ark, the
organization’s chief economist, told Bloomberg Television from
 New York  ahead of the release of the organization’s leading
indicator for China. “We still expect it to be pretty much a
soft landing.”  The data is due at 10 a.m. Beijing time today.  China’s
economy  is cooling after the government raised  interest rates 
and banks’ reserve requirements and extended curbs on the real-
estate market, adding to concerns about the outlook for the
global economy.  Christine Lagarde , the International Monetary
Fund’s managing director, today urged developed countries to
support economic growth even as they make fiscal cuts.  China’s economy is full of imbalances that need to be
addressed, van Ark said. The nation needs to shift to more of a
consumer economy and to build more “social infrastructure
rather than the hard infrastructure, he said.  The nation’s expansion may slow to 9.2 percent in the third
quarter from 9.5 percent in the previous three months, the China
Securities Journal reported today, citing the State Information
Center.  Demand Slows ‘Sharply’  “Growth in China is actually slowing more seriously than
the headline numbers suggest,” Kevin Lai, an economist at Daiwa
Capital Markets in Hong Kong, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview today. He said that trade volumes showed demand
slowing “sharply” in China and the world.  A slowdown in Hong Kong has highlighted the threat of
another global slump as weakness in the  U.S. economy  and a debt
crisis in Europe cap demand for exports. The city last week
reported that gross domestic product contracted in the second
quarter from the previous three months.  “For the advanced economies, there is an unmistakable need
to restore fiscal sustainability through credible consolidation
plans,” Lagarde wrote in the Financial Times. “At the same
time we know that slamming on the brakes too quickly will hurt
the recovery and worsen job prospects.”  --Susan Li, Zheng Lifei, with assistance from Victoria Ruan.
Editors: Paul Panckhurst, Ken McCallum.  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7570
 vruan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in  Hong Kong  at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  