-- 
People’s Bank of China Raises Bill Yield for First Time in Seven Weeks

-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 
2011-08-16T09:07:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/china-central-bank-raises-bill-yield.html
The People’s Bank of  China  raised
the yield on one-year bills for the first time in seven weeks, a
sign policy makers are not yet convinced monetary policy has
been tightened enough to contain inflation.  The central bank sold 5 billion yuan ($782 million) of the
securities at a yield of 3.584 percent, up from 3.4982 percent a
week ago, according to a statement on the central bank’s
website. The securities yielded 3.60 percent in the secondary
market yesterday, according to data compiled by Chinabond, the
nation’s biggest debt clearing house. Swap contracts based on
the one-year deposit rate rose the most in a month, reflecting
bets that borrowing costs will be raised once more in the coming
12 months.  “The surprise higher PBOC yield today definitely spooked
the market,” Wee-Khoon Chong, a Hong Kong-based fixed-income
strategist at Societe Generale SA, wrote today in a research
note. “This could be a signal for further tightening ahead,”
though there would likely be one or two more increases in bill
yields before benchmark  interest rates  are raised, he wrote.  China’s two-year interest-rate swaps that exchange the
PBOC’s one-year deposit rate for a fixed payment rose as much as
eight basis points to 3.65 percent before last trading at 3.61
percent as of 4:30 p.m. in Shanghai. Buyers of the swaps receive
the deposit rate for one year, after which the floating payment
is reset for the second year at the prevailing deposit rate.  Inflation Risk  The monetary authority said Aug. 1 that it was too early to
loosen monetary policy because of the risk that inflation may
accelerate. Policy makers raised interest rates three times this
year and boosted lenders’ reserve-requirement ratios on six
occasions, moves that helped drive the seven-day repurchase rate
to 9.20 percent on June 24, the highest level since October
2007.  The repo rate, a gauge of liquidity in the financial
system, fell one basis point to 3.23 percent today in  Shanghai ,
according to a weighted average compiled by the National
Interbank Funding Center. One-year interest-rate swaps based on
the repo rate, increased seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage
point, to 3.71 percent, based on data compiled by Bloomberg.  China’s economic growth may slow to 9.2 percent in the
third quarter from 9.5 percent in the three months through June,
China Securities Journal reported today, citing the State
Information Center. Consumer-price gains may quicken to about
6.2 percent from 5.7 percent, according to the report. The July
inflation rate of 6.5 percent was the highest in three years and
compares with an official target of 4 percent.  “With economic growth still high, policy makers may like
to see a tighter liquidity condition,” said  Frances Cheung ,
senior strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in  Hong Kong . “If they
want to drain a larger amount via bill sales, they have to let
yields go up to make them attractive.”  The central bank also issued 29 billion yuan of 28-day
 repurchase agreements  at a yield of 2.8 percent today, according
to its statement. The rate was unchanged for a fourth sale,
having been increased from 2.6 percent on July 5.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  