-- 
China Coal Prices Face ‘Upward Pressure,’ UOB-Kay Hian Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-16T03:35:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/china-coal-prices-face-upward-pressure-uob-kay-hian-says-1-.html
China’s thermal coal prices face
“upward pressure” and may rebound earlier than expected after
stockpiles at ports and power stations declined, UOB-Kay Hian
Ltd. said.  Demand for domestic coal was reflected in rising freight
rates to deliver the fuel from Qinhuangdao port to Shanghai or
Guangzhou,  Helen Lau , a Hong Kong-based analyst at UOB-Kay Hian,
said in an e-mailed note today. Freight costs climbed as much as
3 percent for the week ended Aug. 10 from a week earlier,
reversing a downtrend since June, she said.  China’s thermal coal prices typically fall during July
through September after power plants complete stockpiling the
fuel to meet summer demand. Last year, prices began to rebound
in late September as utilities replenished inventories consumed
during the peak season, according to data from the Beijing-based
China Coal Transport and Distribution Association.  Inventories at the top six Chinese power generation
companies have fallen to the equivalent of 15 days of
consumption after staying above 17 days since June, Lau said in
today’s note. Inventories below 15 days represent supply
tightness, she said.  Daily coal consumption at power plants rose to a record in
July as electricity demand expanded 12 percent from a year
earlier, Cai Hongyu, a Hong Kong-based analyst at  China 
International Capital Corp., the nation’s biggest investment
bank, said in a separate e-mailed note today.  China’s thermal coal prices should rebound in September as
utilities restock and maintenance begins at Daqin railway, a
major coal transportation rail-line, Cai wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chua Baizhen in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net ;
Winnie Zhu in Shanghai at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  