-- 
China Vice Premier’s Hong Kong Tour Shows City in Dual Light

-- B y   B e n   R i c h a r d s o n   a n d   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 
2011-08-16T10:46:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/chinese-vice-premier-s-hong-kong-tour-shows-city-in-dual-light.html
Chinese Vice Premier  Li Keqiang 
swept through Hong Kong’s financial district today, with police
blocking footbridges between the world’s fifth-biggest stock
exchange and the Asian headquarters of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  when
his cavalcade of more than 18 vehicles passed beneath.  The front-runner to replace Premier  Wen Jiabao  arrived as a
helicopter flew overhead with a banner by  Industrial &
Commercial Bank of China (601398)  Ltd. for tomorrow’s 20 billion yuan
($3.1 billion) sale of bonds by China’s Ministry of Finance.
While the skyscrapers and fundraising are badges of Hong Kong’s
success, Li today toured a public housing estate in a city where
a growing wealth gap is stoking discontent.  Chief Executive  Donald Tsang  has failed to win backing from
a majority of the public for more than a year, according to the
latest  findings  in a University of  Hong Kong  survey tracking his
popularity since his appointment in 2005. Fourteen years after
Hong Kong’s autonomy was enshrined in law to calm fears for the
capitalist enclave, Tsang is increasingly turning to the
Communist central government to sustain economic growth.  “Beijing is quite concerned about the economic stability
in Hong Kong, as the city may see a rising risk of unrest over
poverty,” said Willy Lam, an adjunct professor of history at
 Chinese University of Hong Kong . “Since the handover, Hong Kong
has made no real progress in diversifying its economy, relying
heavily on finance and property for growth, sectors that won’t
create lots of jobs.”  Li said he would announce policies to support local
development at a forum tomorrow on  China ’s latest economic plan.
Central bank Governor Zhou Xiaochuan, Commerce Minister  Chen Deming , and China’s top economic planner Zhang Ping will also
speak at the meeting, according to a government  statement .  Care, Support  “The inclusion of Hong Kong in the 12th five-year plan
shows the central government’s care and support,” Li, who is
responsible for China’s affordable housing policy, said on his
arrival at Chek Lap Kok airport.  While Hong Kong faces challenges, Li told Tsang he had
“confidence” in the city’s future.  While Hong Kong’s stock exchange overtook Germany and
 France  during Tsang’s watch to become the world’s fifth-biggest
by market capitalization, it was outstripped by China. Hong Kong
also lost its place this year as the world’s biggest center for
initial public offerings as the flow of multibillion-dollar
sales by Chinese state-owned companies dried up. Hong Kong IPOs
raised $15 billion this year, while the U.S. had $36 billion
worth, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Li’s visit comes a week after the city said its economy
shrank for the first time since 2009 as exports grew at a slower
pace.  Recession Looms  Hong Kong’s export-led economy is sinking into a recession
that is likely to last for at least a year on weak global
demand, Daiwa Capital Markets economist Kevin Lai said
yesterday. The city posted a 0.5 percent contraction in the
second quarter from three months earlier.  The Chinese government has pledged to help Hong Kong
develop as an offshore yuan center. China’s currency is not now
fully convertible, and policy makers are seeking to promote its
use in global trade and investment.  Li is due to attend a ceremony marking the Ministry of
Finance’s sale of “dim sum bonds” tomorrow, its third and
largest issue of yuan-denominated debt in Hong Kong. The
ministry will start selling 20 billion yuan ($3.1 billion) of
debt tomorrow.  The timing of ICBC’s helicopter ad was a coincidence as it
was planned before Li’s trip was confirmed, said Hilda Chow, a
spokeswoman for the Hong Kong arm of the world’s biggest bank by
market capitalization. The campaign will run for the three days
that Li is in Hong Kong.  Tsang’s Ratings  Tsang’s public-support ratings rebounded last month to 48.3
out of 100, according to the University of Hong Kong’s Public
Opinion Programme today. In July, Tsang’s popularity hit a
record low of 45.6, it showed.  A 45 grade could signal a “governance crisis,” poll
director Robert Chung said. China’s top official on Hong Kong,
Wang Guangya, warned the city’s leaders in June that  home prices 
may turn into a “political problem.”  Wen said in March that Hong Kong’s leaders should resolve
“deep-rooted conflicts” and raise  living standards .  Wages adjusted for inflation in Hong Kong are lower now
than they were a decade ago, as incomes failed to keep pace with
rising rents, supermarket prices and school costs.  Tsang will finish his term next year, and his replacement
will be selected by a group of people appointed by the Chinese
government.  Li is one of nine members of the Communist Party’s ruling
Politburo Standing Committee and is mentioned by political
analysts such as  Li Cheng  of  Washington ’s  Brookings Institution 
as being a likely successor to Wen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net 
Ben Richardson in Hong Kong at 
 brichardson8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  