-- 
Clinton Fundraisers Step Up to Fill Obama Re-Election Account

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 
2011-08-16T04:00:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/clinton-fundraisers-step-up-to-fill-obama-re-election-account.html
Almost one in every 10  Barack Obama 
fundraisers for the 2012 presidential campaign worked four years
ago generating cash for former Democratic rival  Hillary Clinton .  Of the 244 individuals identified by the Obama campaign as
bringing in at least $50,000 for his re-election, 23 were
“Hillraisers,” collecting at least $100,000 for Clinton, now
U.S. secretary of state, during her unsuccessful 2008 Democratic
primary campaign. Just four of the 23 raised at least $50,000
for Obama after he defeated Clinton and won the nomination,
according to a Bloomberg News analysis.  The former Clinton fundraisers, some of whom were courted
by the president, are both strengthening the Obama team that
raised a record $745 million for his first White House run and
replacing those who are sitting this race out after supporting
the president four years ago.  “Having the Hillary fundraisers on his team isn’t going to
hurt,” Democratic consultant Glenn Totten said. “There is no
question President Obama has alienated some members of the
Democratic Party. Those people are clearly filling in some of
the holes in the fundraising operation.”  Ben LaBolt , an Obama campaign spokesman, said Republican
calls for cuts to programs for the middle class and elderly, and
the party’s refusal to ask wealthy Americans to help reduce the
deficit, are helping to unify the Democratic Party.  “The more the Republican candidates pledge allegiance to
the  Tea Party  instead of pledging to create opportunities for
the middle class, the more supporters will join our campaign,”
LaBolt said.  Piling On  A spokeswoman for the  Republican National Committee ,
Kirsten Kukowski, said it’s the Democrats who are rebelling
against Obama’s economic policies.  “As Democrats pile on against the president’s failed
economic leadership, from unions to liberal pundits to members
of Congress, it’s interesting that the White House is trying to
argue that their party is unified on the economy,” Kukowski
said.  The consolidation of the Democratic fundraiser ranks is
important because campaign-finance experts are predicting the
2012 campaign may require each party nominee to raise as much as
$1 billion. It also signals an easing of tension between the
Clinton and Obama camps that lingered after his inauguration in
2009.  Presidential Courtship  Obama personally wooed some Clinton fundraisers at a March
dinner at the St. Regis Hotel across Lafayette Square from the
White House. About 60 prospective bundlers, many of whom were
veterans of the team that helped Clinton raise almost $200
million, joined Obama for dinner as he sought their help.  In addition, Obama campaign manager  Jim Messina  traveled
across the U.S. to recruit prospective fundraisers.  “They are making a very concentrated effort to reach out
to the donor community,” said Robert Zimmerman, a  Democratic
National Committee  member from Long Island who raised money for
Clinton in 2008 and brought in between $50,000 and $100,000 for
Obama’s campaign this year. “This is no longer a Hillary
Clinton-Barack Obama story. It’s now a story of Barack Obama’s
campaign rebuilding its connections with the donor network.”  The list of Clinton fundraisers bringing in donations for
Obama’s re-election includes Marc Lasry, chairman and chief
executive officer of the New York-based investment management
firm Avenue Capital Group, and David L. Cohen, executive vice
president of Philadelphia-based  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)   Another is Chad Griffin, a Los Angeles political
consultant.  ‘We Are Democrats’  “At the end of the day, we are Democrats,” said Griffin,
who co-chaired a Los Angeles fundraiser in June featuring first
lady  Michelle Obama  that brought in more than $1 million. “He
is our president and I and others strongly believe and consider
it a top priority that the Democrats keep control of the White
House.”  Obama raised $46 million for his re-election through June
30 and had $37.1 million in the bank. He also helped the
 Democratic National Committee  raise $58 million in the first six
months of the year. Much of that money will be spent on Obama’s
re-election.  In addition to the need to raise money for the re-election
campaign, Obama’s senior political strategist  David Axelrod  has
told supporters that he expects independent Republican groups to
spend as much as $500 million to oust the president.  Two key Republicans groups, American Crossroads and
Crossroads GPS, are being guided by  Karl Rove , a political
adviser to former President  George W. Bush .  $100 Million Goal  To blunt those attacks, former White House aides  Bill Burton  and Sean Sweeney this year created two Democratic outside
groups, Priorities USA and Priorities USA Action.  The Crossroads and Priorities groups each have announced
fundraising goals of about $100 million for the 2012 campaign.  On the Republican side, former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney is the top money raiser, taking in $18.3 million through
June 30 with a bank balance of $12.7 million. The  Republican
National Committee  raised $37 million through June 30.  Zimmerman said there is no reason to talk about Clinton
supporters and Obama supporters as if they were still at odds.  “There are no longer separate camps in the  Democratic
Party ,” he said. “There’s one very clear specific mission, and
that is re-electing Barack Obama.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan D. Salant  in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 