-- 
CLP First-Half Profit Falls After Paying Acquisition Charge

-- B y   G u o   A i b i n g
-- 
2011-08-16T08:28:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/clp-first-half-profit-falls-after-paying-acquisition-charge.html
CLP Holdings Ltd. (2) ,  Hong Kong ’s
biggest electricity supplier, reported a 2 percent decline in
first-half profit after booking an acquisition-related charge.  Net income fell to HK$5.8 billion ($745 million) in the six
months ended June 30 from HK$5.9 billion a year earlier, CLP
said in a statement to the Hong Kong stock exchange today. That
beat the HK$4.7 billion estimate by  Michael Parker , a Hong Kong-
based analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. Operating profit,
which excludes the one-off charge, gained 13 percent to HK$5
billion as earnings in Australia rose.  The utility expanded overseas to counter curbs by the Hong
Kong government on returns from its power business. In December,
CLP and Origin Energy Ltd. agreed to buy New South Wales
electricity assets for a total of A$5.3 billion ($5.6 billion)
to gain customers in  Australia ’s most populous state.  CLP took a charge on the A$78 million stamp duty paid on
its purchase of the assets for A$2.2 billion in March, according
to its earnings statement.  Earnings from CLP’s businesses outside Hong Kong grew 41
percent to HK$1.7 billion in the first half. Profit from its
Australian energy business more than doubled to HK$1.2 billion,
while income from  India  climbed 59 percent to HK$183 million.  Profit from the utility’s electricity business in Hong Kong
increased 3.3 percent to HK$3.1 billion.  CLP has gained 17 percent in the past year in Hong Kong
trading compared with the 4.3 percent drop in the benchmark  Hang
Seng Index . The stock rose 1.8 percent to close at HK$68.10,
following the earnings announcement.  Overseas Expansion  Under Hong Kong government rules introduced in October 2008
to curb electricity charges, the rate of return on fixed-asset
spending by CLP was cut to 9.99 percent from between 13.5
percent and 15 percent. To offset the reduced returns, the
utility has acquired power assets in  China , Taiwan, Australia,
India, Thailand and the Philippines.  Unit TRUenergy Holdings Pty agreed to acquire a stake in
coal-seam gas reserves in New South Wales from Santos Ltd. for
A$284 million to help support CLP’s generation and gas retail
operations, the Hong Kong utility  said  on July 18.  CLP is unlikely to pursue any acquisitions in the near
future on the scale of the New South  Wales  power-asset purchase,
Chief Executive Officer Andrew Brandler said at a media briefing
in Hong Kong after the earnings announcement.  The utility prefers “organic” growth in Australia and
India, Brandler told reporters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aibing Guo in Hong Kong at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 