-- 
Computer Hacking May Be News Corp.’s ‘Next Scandal,’ U.K. Lawmaker Says

-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 
2011-08-17T14:51:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/computer-hacking-may-be-news-corp-s-next-scandal-watson-says.html
Revelations that U.K. tabloid
journalists may have graduated to hacking computers in addition
to mobile phones may form the next scandal facing  Rupert Murdoch ’s News Corp., a U.K. lawmaker investigating privacy
violations by the now-defunct News of the World said.  Police and parliament have mostly focused their probes on
how journalists illegally accessed the voice mails of
celebrities, politicians, and crime victims, and who at the
company knew about it. More revelations of computer hacking and
other forms of spying could emerge,  Tom Watson , a Labour Party
lawmaker, said yesterday.  “My own concerns are that this will lead to other forms of
covert surveillance and I think the next scandal will be
computer hacking and we’re going to be living with this for
weeks and months to come,” said Watson, a member of the
 Culture, Media and Sport Committee  that is investigating phone
hacking. Watson made the comments after the committee published
additional statements from  News Corp. (NWSA)  deputy chief operating
officer  James Murdoch  and others beyond what they offered in
their initial testimony July.  London’s Metropolitan Police opened a third investigation
into reporting tactics at the end of July which focuses on
computer hacking while not specifically targeting News Corp. The
probe, dubbed Operation Tuleta, is considering “a number of
allegations regarding breach of privacy” and computer hacking
that they have received since January, police said.  The allegations are outside the scope of the two other
police probes opened earlier this year into phone hacking and
police bribery.  Hurst Claims  Tuleta began following allegations by Ian Hurst, a former
British Army intelligence officer. Hurst on Aug. 1 sued News
Group, the unit of the New York-based company that publishes the
Sun and formerly the News of the World, claiming it hired a
computer expert to hack into his e-mail, according to his
lawyer,  Mark Lewis .  Hurst said his computer was accessed by a man hired by the
News of the World’s Dublin office in 2006 using an e-mail virus.
Hurst, who used the pseudonym “Martin Ingram,” helped to
expose an Irish Republican Army officer as an informer. He co-
wrote the book “ Stakeknife : Britain’s Secret Agents in
Ireland” in 2004.  News International declined to comment via e-mail when
asked about computer hacking. Regarding the statements to
parliament the company said “We recognize the seriousness of
materials disclosed to the police and parliament and are
committed to working in a constructive and open way with all the
relevant authorities.”  Harris Clients  Allegations of computer hacking by News Corp. have surfaced
before.  Charlotte Harris, a lawyer with nearly 70 clients who were
potential victims in the phone-hacking scandal, said she’s seen
evidence of possible computer hacking in some of her cases.  Sienna Miller , who accepted 100,000 pounds ($165,000) from
News Corp. in June to end a lawsuit she filed against the
company for accessing her voice mails, might have also had her
e-mail hacked, her lawyer,  Hugh Tomlinson , said at a hearing in
April. No claims related to computer hacking were made in her
lawsuit.  Private Investigator  “If it did happen, it would’ve been a private investigator
doing it rather than a journalist directly,” said Niri Shan,
head of media law at Taylor Wessing LLP in London. “It’s a
criminal offense, as it’s a criminal offense to listen to
someone’s voicemail.”  In 2009, the News of the World was sued by lawmaker  Nigel Griffiths  for allegedly hacking into his computer to gain access
to photos the member of Parliament took during a sexual liaison
in his office with a woman who wasn’t his wife. The front-page
story featured pictures of Griffiths in his underwear.  His lawyer has said the photos were obtained in an
“extremely underhand way,” and that they didn’t know how they
were removed from Griffiths’ computer.  The case hasn’t gone to trial, and court filings in the
matter aren’t public.  In the U.S., Manhattan federal prosecutors have joined the
inquiry into allegations that News Corp.’s American marketing
arm hacked a password-protected website at Floorgraphics Inc.,
an attorney for Floorgraphics has said.  William Isaacson, a lawyer at Boies, Schiller & Flexner LLP
who represented Floorgraphics at a 2009 civil trial against News
America Marketing In-Store Services, said two Manhattan
prosecutors participated in his July 18 interview by the FBI. In
its lawsuit, Floorgraphics, based in Hamilton,  New Jersey ,
claimed News America hacked its website in 2003 and 2004.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in  London  at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  