-- 
Copper Falls as Sagging European Economy May Damp Metal Demand

-- B y   Y i   T i a n   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 
2011-08-16T18:14:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/copper-falls-on-demand-concern-as-euro-region-growth-weakens.html
Copper fell for the first time in
four sessions as the slowest growth in the euro-area economy in
two years spurred concern that metal demand will decline.  The European Union statistics office said today that gross
domestic product rose 0.2 percent in the second quarter from the
first, In  Germany , the region’s biggest economy, growth almost
stalled. U.S. housing starts fell in July, and building permits,
a proxy for future construction, also dropped, government
figures showed today.  “The focus now is on worsening macro readings,
particularly out of the U.S. and Europe,”  Edward Meir , a senior
analyst at MF Global Holdings Ltd. in Darien,  Connecticut , said
in a report. “Prices will continue to struggle over the balance
of the year.”  Copper futures for December delivery declined 3.8 cents, or
0.9 percent, to close at $4.015 a pound at 1:16 p.m. on the
Comex in  New York . The price has dropped 10 percent this month
amid escalating debt woes in the U.S. and  Europe .  The metal, which earlier fell as much as 1.9 percent, pared
losses after a report showed U.S. industrial production climbed
in July by the most this year.  On the London Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months dropped $78, or 0.9 percent, to $8,830 a metric ton
($4.01 a pound).  Danske Bank A/S lowered its 2012 price forecast to $9,800
from $10,125, citing a slowing economy. The metal has averaged
$9,412 this year.  “With leading indicators expected to decline further,
recession fears are likely to stay elevated and potentially even
rise further,” Christin Tuxen, a Copenhagen-based bank analyst,
said in a report.  Lead, zinc and tin also fell in  London . Nickel rose, and
aluminum unchanged.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yi Tian in New York at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net ;
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  