-- 
Corporate, Sovereign Bond Risk Rises in Europe as Growth Slows

-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 
2011-08-16T12:22:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/corporate-sovereign-bond-risk-rises-in-europe-as-growth-slows.html
The cost of insuring sovereign and
corporate debt rose in  Europe  after reports showed the region’s
economic growth slowed more than forecast in the second quarter
as  Germany ’s recovery almost ground to a halt.  The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-default swaps
linked to 40 companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings
increased 22 basis points to 619.5, according to JPMorgan Chase
& Co. at 1 p.m. in London. Contracts on the Markit iTraxx SovX
Western Europe Index tied to the debt of 15 governments rose 7
basis points 282, snapping three days of declines.  Germany’s gross domestic product climbed 0.1 percent in the
second quarter and with  Spain , the Netherlands and  France  all
posting slower growth there’s mounting concern company profits
will suffer.  Hong Kong ’s export-led economy may sink into a
year-long recession as sharp slowdowns in the U.S. and Europe
lead to less demand, according to Daiwa Capital Markets.  “You’re seeing an adjustment here -- an across the board
widening in spreads which indicates weaker economic growth
prospects that results in weaker earnings prospects,” said
Maureen Schuller, an analyst at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam. “If
you have also growth in Germany slowing, that is definitely not
a positive for credit spreads.”  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings rose 5 basis points to 147 basis
points.  Credit-default swaps on Spain increased 10 basis points to
356, according to CMA. The cost of insuring Italian  government
bonds  climbed 2 basis points to 343. France was little changed
at 148 and Ireland was 22 higher at 758.  ‘Signs of Weakness’  “The whole problem is in the periphery, and ultimately we
need economic growth to climb out of the crisis,” said Teo
Lasarte, a European credit strategist at Bank of America-Merrill
Lynch in London. “Any signs of weakness, especially in Germany,
makes the market less confident.”  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros ($14.4 million) of debt from default for five
years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in  London  at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  