-- 
Cosan Quarterly Profit Jumps on Joint Venture With Shell

-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i   a n d   K a r e n   E e u w e n s
-- 
2011-08-16T14:56:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/cosan-quarterly-profit-jumps-on-joint-venture-with-shell-1-.html
Cosan SA Industria & Comercio, which
jointly controls the world’s largest sugar-cane processor with
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , said quarterly profit was boosted by a
gain from the formation of the Raizen venture with Shell.  Net income rose to 2.3 billion reais in the fiscal first
quarter that ended June 30, from 400,000 reais in the year-
earlier period, Sao Paulo-based Cosan said today in a statement.
Cosan didn’t report per-share profit figures.  Cosan and Shell in June concluded combining sugar, ethanol
and fuel-distribution assets in  Brazil . Cosan, which is
contributing 23 mills, 1,730 gas stations and other assets,
transferred about 5.24 billion reais in net debt to the venture.
Shell invested an estimated $1.6 billion of cash and assets.  “The conclusion of the venture was the big driver for our
results,” Chief Financial Officer Marcelo Martins said today on
a conference call with journalists.  Profit was boosted by 2.2 billion reais from the Raizen
venture, the company said.  Sugar prices averaged 54 percent higher on ICE Futures U.S.
in  New York  in the period, while hydrous ethanol, which accounts
for about more than two-thirds of Cosan’s ethanol sales,
increased 58 percent in the domestic market, according to the
University of Sao Paulo’s Cepea research institute.  Ethanol Drought  Net sales climbed 30 percent to 5.19 billion reais. Sugar
output declined 6.7 percent while ethanol volumes fell 17
percent after a drought in Brazil’s Center South, the world’s
largest producing region, reduced output of the tropical plant.  Cosan reported under international financial reporting
standards and provided comparable year-earlier figures using the
same guidelines.  The earnings report was released before the opening of
stock market trading today.  Cosan was unchanged at 22.80 reais at 10:07 a.m. New York
time in  Sao Paulo  today. The stock has dropped 17 percent this
year, less than the 23 percent decline in Brazil’s benchmark
Bovespa Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucia Kassai in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net ;
Karen Eeuwens in London at 
 keeuwens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Price at 
 lprice3@bloomberg.net  