-- 
Crude Oil Futures Decline as Investors Speculate Global Economy Is Slowing

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-08-16T12:41:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/crude-oil-futures-decline-as-investors-speculate-global-economy-is-slowing.html
Oil dropped from the highest in
almost two weeks in  New York  after  Germany ’s economy all but
stagnated in the second quarter, heightening concern that fuel
consumption will diminish.  Futures slid as much as 1.8 percent today after Germany’s
 Federal Statistics Office  said gross domestic product, adjusted
for seasonal effects, rose 0.1 percent from the first quarter.
Growth across Europe slowed more than economists forecast. U.S.
builders began work on fewer homes in July, indicating
residential real estate is failing to contribute to growth. The
Energy Department may say tomorrow U.S. crude oil stockpiles
declined to a five-month low.  “The overall picture is that worldwide economic activity
is slowing down a bit, and of course that’s bearish for oil,”
said  Sintje Diek , an analyst at  HSH Nordbank  in Hamburg who
correctly predicted that Brent prices would fall to $100 this
summer. “There are fears the recovery in the euro zone will be
very sluggish because of the debt crisis. Maybe we’ll see lower
prices than $100.”  Crude for September delivery declined as much as $1.62 to
$86.26 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $86.29 at 1:33 p.m. London time. The
contract yesterday gained 2.9 percent to $87.88, the highest
settlement since Aug. 3. Prices have risen 15 percent in the
past year.  Brent oil for September settlement fell $1.24, or 1.1
percent, to $108.67 a barrel on the ICE Futures  Europe  in
London. The European benchmark was at a premium of $22.32 to
U.S. futures, compared with a record close of $23.79 on Aug. 10.  Slower Growth  Gross domestic product in the 17-nation euro area rose 0.2
percent from the first quarter, when it increased 0.8 percent,
the European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said in a
statement today. That’s the worst performance since the euro
region emerged from a recession in late 2009.  “A lot of the indicators out of Europe have been weak,”
said  Ben Westmore , a minerals and energy economist at National
Australia Bank Ltd. in  Melbourne , who predicts oil in New York
will average $93 a barrel in the third quarter. “We all knew
that it was going to take a long time for these areas to get
back on their feet and there would be this lull in activity
after all the stimulus had washed out.”  Growth in  China , the world’s second-biggest oil consumer,
is “significantly moderating,” the Conference Board, a New
York-based research organization, said today. The nation’s
expansion may cool to 9.2 percent in the third quarter from 9.5
percent in the previous three months, the China Securities
Journal reported today, citing the State Information Center.  Building Permits Slump  Housing starts fell 1.5 percent to a 604,000 annual rate,
in line with the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News, from June’s 613,000 pace, Commerce Department
figures showed today in  Washington .  An Energy Department report tomorrow may show U.S. crude
stockpiles declined as imports fell and refineries ran near the
highest rates of the year, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  Inventories dropped 750,000 barrels from 349.8 million in
the seven days ended Aug. 12, according to the median of 10
analyst estimates in the survey. The fall would leave stockpiles
at the lowest since the week ended March 4.  Tropical Storm Gert weakened after passing  Bermuda 
yesterday and heading northeast into the Atlantic, the U.S.
National Hurricane Center said.  Gert, 410 miles (660 kilometers) northwest of Bermuda,
moved at a faster pace of 22 miles per hour and lower intensity,
with maximum sustained winds of 45 mph, the center said in a
statement released at 4:35 a.m. Atlantic Standard Time. Storm
force winds extended 70 miles from the core, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  