-- 
Czech Economic Growth Slows From Fastest in 11 Quarters on Dropping Demand

-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 
2011-08-16T07:35:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/czech-economic-growth-slows-from-fastest-in-11-quarters-on-dropping-demand.html
Czech economic growth slowed in the
second quarter from the quickest pace in almost three years as
government austerity measures curbed domestic consumption and
foreign demand weakened.  Gross domestic product rose 2.4 percent from a year
earlier, compared with 2.8 percent in the first quarter, the
Prague-based Czech Statistics Office said in a flash estimate on
its website today. The result was above the median estimate of
2.3 percent in a Bloomberg survey of 12 analysts. Detailed GDP
data will be published on Sept 8. On a seasonally adjusted
basis, GDP grew 0.2 percent from the previous three months.  “Despite a partial slowdown, foreign trade remains the
source of growth” for the economy, the office said in a
statement. “A decline in final consumption worked in the
opposite direction.”  The Czech economy’s recovery is dependent on demand for its
products, including Skoda Auto AS cars, in western  Europe  as
exports account for about 70 percent of total GDP. Domestic
consumption has been constrained by government measures to cut
the  budget deficit  and a slow improvement in the job market as
the  unemployment rate  has stayed above 8 percent for two years.  The koruna was little changed at 24.334 to the euro as of
9:27 a.m. in Prague.  Differing Views  Policy makers in Prague have shown differing views on
economic trends and inflation risks as they debate when to start
raising the benchmark  interest rate  from a record low. Five of
seven board members voted to keep the two-week repurchase rate
at 0.75 percent on Aug. 4. They held borrowing costs at three-
quarters of a percentage point below the  European Central Bank ’s
main rate saying GDP growth driven by exports wasn’t creating
inflationary pressures.  Two policy makers demanded a quarter-point increase in
August, saying they saw inflation risks next year.  The central bank in August raised its forecast for 2011
economic growth to 2.1 percent, from 1.5 percent. It cut the
next year’s estimate to 2.2 percent, from 2.8 percent.  “Domestic producers, mainly in the industrial sector,
benefited from strong German demand in the first half of the
year,” Jiri Skop, an economist at Komercni Banka AS, owned by
Societe Generale SA, wrote in a note to clients. “The second
half of the year will be a bigger challenge because the economy
will probably be affected by weaker foreign demand caused by the
debt crisis abroad.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in  Prague  at 
 placa@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  