-- 
D.E. Shaw Takes AIG Stake as Berkowitz Boosts Its Holding

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-08-16T20:58:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/d-e-shaw-takes-aig-stake-as-berkowitz-boosts-holding-of-insurer.html
D.E. Shaw & Co., the $21 billion
hedge-fund firm founded by  David Shaw , was among investors that
bought  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  shares as the U.S.
Treasury Department reduced its majority stake in the insurer.  D.E. Shaw had  4 million shares  in New York-based AIG as of
June 30, it said in a regulatory filing yesterday. That compares
with 57,827 shares three months earlier. Wellington Management
Co., which oversees more than $600 billion, said in a filing
that it held 10.5 million shares at the end of the second
quarter. Wellington didn’t disclose a holding as of March 31.  Asset managers are betting AIG will recover after selling
some of its most profitable units to repay a government bailout
that swelled to $182.3 billion. The stock traded yesterday at
half of book value, a measure of assets minus liabilities,
almost three months after the Treasury sold 200 million shares
of the insurer in a public offering.  AIG is “one of the cheaper stocks there is out there” by
book value, said Paul Newsome, an analyst at Sandler O’Neill &
Partners LP. Investors are “betting on the solidness of the
balance sheet.” He advises clients to buy the stock.  AIG slipped 1 cent to $24.51 at 4:15 p.m. in  New York  Stock
Exchange composite trading, the second-best performance in the
22-company Standard & Poor’s 500 Insurance Index. The firm has
declined 49 percent this year.  Bruce Berkowitz ’s Fairholme Capital Management LLC, the
largest non-government shareholder in AIG, boosted its stake to
103.2 million shares as of June 30 from 44.2 million three
months earlier, according to regulatory filings. The holding
would be valued at $2.53 billion based on yesterday’s closing
price on the New York Stock Exchange.  ‘We Swing Big’  “When a recovering icon trades at half of our
understanding of intrinsic value for a reason that has nothing
to do with its prospects, we swing big,” Berkowitz wrote in a
 letter  to investors last month. AIG is undervalued “due mostly
to market pressures caused by the  U.S. Treasury ’s desire to sell
its 77 percent ownership.”  AIG repaid the remaining $21 billion it owed to the  Federal
Reserve Bank of New York , and the Treasury converted its
preferred stake into 92 percent of AIG’s common stock in
January. The holding was cut in the May share sale.  ‘Crisis is Over’  “AIG’s crisis is over,” Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche , 67, told analysts on a conference call Aug. 5.
“Whatever is owed to the government for what they gave us in
the beginning is all covered by collateralized partnerships or
the common shares.”  AIG was first rescued in September 2008 after losses on
housing-market bets by the Financial Products unit. The bailout
was revised at least four times as the U.S. extended more credit
and lowered the interest charged.  Kari Elassal, a spokeswoman for D.E. Shaw, and Robert J. Toner, a vice president at Wellington listed on the filing,
didn’t immediately respond to requests for comment.  Separately, AIG named Executive Vice President Brian Schreiber as treasurer, replacing Robert Gender, according to a
statement yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  