-- 
Dell’s Shares Tumble After Sluggish Consumer PC Spending Weighs on Revenue

-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 
2011-08-17T21:25:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/dell-misses-sales-estimates-on-weaker-consumer-spending.html
Dell Inc. (DELL) , the second-largest
personal-computer maker, fell the most in almost three years on
the Nasdaq Stock Market after slower spending on PCs and
consumer technology crimped its sales forecast.  The company projected sales growth of 1 percent to 5
percent this year, down from a previous range of 5 percent to 9
percent. Second-quarter sales rose less than 1 percent to $15.7
billion,  Round Rock , Texas-based Dell said yesterday. Analysts
had estimated revenue of $15.8 billion in the period, which
ended July 29, according to Bloomberg data.  Lackluster demand from consumers and market-share gains by
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  weighed on results, offsetting stronger corporate
orders for server computers. Households have stepped up
purchases of tablets and smartphones, while curtailing purchases
of PCs, Dell’s mainstay. Renewed concerns that the economy will
fall back into recession also may be curbing spending.  “The macroeconomic environment has weakened not only here
in the U.S., but globally,” said Shaw Wu, an analyst at Sterne,
Agee & Leach Inc. in  San Francisco . He has a “neutral” rating
on the shares. “The guidance is definitely disappointing, and
that’s the main reason why the stock’s off. The Street already
had some skepticism that the numbers were too high.”  The stock dropped $1.60, or 10 percent, to $14.20 at 4 p.m.
New York time. That was the biggest decline since October 2008.  ‘Uncertain Demand’  In cutting its full-year revenue forecast, Dell cited “a
more uncertain demand environment” and a strategy shift aimed
at boosting sales of higher-margin products. Government
customers also have delayed spending. The public sector accounts
for more than a quarter of Dell’s sales.  Even as Dell tempered its revenue outlook for the year, it
said operating income would increase by as much as 23 percent,
up from a previous forecast of up to 18 percent. Acquiring
technology for data centers and discontinuing sales of less
profitable products have improved results, executives said.  On a conference call yesterday, Chief Executive Officer
 Michael Dell  said the company would keep making acquisitions and
maintain its focus on midsize business customers.  “You’ll see us continue to identify opportunities in a
disciplined way that will generate profitable growth,” he said.  Run of Acquisitions  The company has been making deals to expand in data
storage, networking and software. On July 20, Dell announced
plans to buy networking company Force10 Networks Inc., which it
said had about $200 million in sales.  Dell’s second-quarter net income rose to $890 million, or
48 cents a share, from $545 million, or 28 cents, a year
earlier. Excluding some costs, profit was 54 cents a share.
Analysts had projected 49 cents.  Sales of storage products declined 20 percent, following
the decision to end Dell’s agreement to resell products from EMC
Corp., the biggest producer of storage computers. Still, revenue
from Dell-owned storage technology grew 15 percent last quarter.  The consumer business, meanwhile, has been a struggle, said
Chief Financial Officer Brian Gladden.  “We’ve seen weakness there and it’s become even more
challenging recently,” he said. “The enterprise side of the
business is executing well.”  Apple’s Mac computers and iPad tablets are selling to small
and midsize companies, in addition to consumers, cutting into
Dell’s market share, said  Sterne Agee ’s Wu.  Not Trivial  “If you add those two segments together, the impact on
Dell isn’t that trivial anymore,” Wu said. About 45 percent of
Dell’s business is susceptible to inroads by Apple, he said.
“Apple is definitely having an impact on the small and medium
business market.”  The overall PC industry saw lower-than-expected shipments
last quarter, market researchers said in July. Global shipments
climbed 2.6 percent, IDC said, just shy of the 2.9 percent it
had forecast. PC sales in the U.S. slipped 4.2 percent.  Apple, whose Mac sales have benefited from the popularity
of its iPhone and iPad mobile devices, bucked that trend. It saw
shipments grow almost 15 percent in the U.S. last quarter,
making it the country’s third-largest PC seller, with 10.7
percent of the market, IDC said.  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  was the
largest supplier, with Dell coming in second. Hewlett-Packard
reports its quarterly results tomorrow.  Dell is planning new tablet computers that use either
Android and Microsoft’s Windows 8 operating system, due next
year. The company’s current Streak tablets, which use an older
version of Android, have only found niche customers, Dell
executive Stephen J. Felice said in June. The company has
discontinued a version of the Streak with a 5-inch screen.  Google Inc.’s $12.5 billion acquisition of Motorola
Mobility Holdings Inc., announced this week, also may increase
competition. The deal makes Google a rival to Dell in hardware
markets, including Android devices.  “We’re still quite interested in Android,” Dell’s CEO
said. And the company’s early work developing a tablet running
Windows 8 “looks to be pretty encouraging,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  