-- 
Dollar May Decline to Record 75 Yen on Ichimoku Lines: Technical Analysis

-- B y   H i r o k o   K o m i y a   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 
2011-08-16T04:34:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/dollar-may-decline-to-record-75-yen-on-ichimoku-lines-technical-analysis.html
The dollar may fall below a post-
World War II record against the yen, Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd.
said, citing trading patterns.  The ichimoku chart, used to predict a currency’s direction
by analyzing the midpoints of historical highs and lows, shows
the dollar may weaken past 75 yen, said  Hiroyuki Tanaka , chief
technical analyst at Mizuho in  Tokyo . The  U.S. dollar  declined
to a record low of 76.25 yen on March 17. It traded at 76.86 yen
as of 1:08 p.m. in Tokyo from 76.83 yen yesterday in  New York .  The chart’s so-called baseline fell to 78.34 today from
78.89 on Aug. 12, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
conversion line will start to drop this week after Japan’s
intervention to sell its own currency spurred the dollar to a
three-week high of 80.24 yen on Aug. 4, Tanaka said.  “The falling base and conversion lines will put downward
pressure” on the dollar against the yen, said Tanaka, whose
company is a unit of Japan’s third-biggest publicly traded bank
by market value. “The fact that the dollar is in range-bound
trading near a record low is already a sign of weakness.”  The conversion line plots the daily average of highs and
lows in the preceding nine trading days, while the baseline is
the same calculation over the past 26 days, according to the
website of Nomura Securities Co.  In  technical analysis , investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to forecast changes in a security,
commodity, currency or index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hiroko Komiya in Tokyo at 
 hkomiya1@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 