-- 
Dubai Consumer Prices Slow as Housing Costs Fall Most on Record

-- B y   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 
2011-08-16T12:19:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/dubai-consumer-prices-slow-as-housing-costs-fall-most-on-record.html
Consumer prices in Dubai, the
second-biggest member of the  United Arab Emirates , rose at a
slower pace in July as housing and electricity prices tumbled
the most on record.  Consumer prices increased an annual 0.62 percent compared
with 0.75 percent in June, according to data published today by
the  Dubai Statistics Center . Housing, water and electricity
costs fell 3.5 percent, the most since May 2010, when Bloomberg
began tracking Dubai inflation. Food and non-alcohol prices rose
at a slower pace last month, 6.1 percent, after that rate almost
doubled in June.  “The inflation outlook for the U.A.E. will be capped on
the upside with all this housing stock coming to the market,”
said Shady Shaher, an economist with Standard Chartered Plc in
Dubai. “Yes, food prices are rising, but they are not giving
that push for inflation; it continues to be capped by the
housing component.”  In 2009, Dubai sought $10 billion from the U.A.E. central
bank and another $10 billion from  Abu Dhabi  and its banks to
help its state-owned companies after the global credit crisis
suppressed property prices by more than half from their 2008
peak and frozen credit markets forced some of the emirate’s
companies to delay loan payments. Property prices in Dubai, the
 Middle East ’s worst performer for three years, have plunged more
than 55 percent since mid-2008, according to Deutsche Bank AG.  Consumer prices in Abu Dhabi, the capital, rose 2.3 percent
in July from a year ago, the Statistics Center of Abu Dhabi said
in an e-mailed statement today. Food and non-alcoholic beverage
costs climbed 9.1 percent, mirroring the increase in global food
prices.  Economic growth will accelerate to about 3.5 percent in Abu
Dhabi this year and to 3 percent in Dubai, the  International
Monetary Fund  said in April.  The National Bureau of Statistics said on Aug. 14 that
inflation for the seven-emirate federation slowed to 1.3 percent
in July from 1.7 percent the previous month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivian Salama in Abu Dhabi at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  