-- 
ECB Bond Buying ‘Encouraging’ as Shows Bang for Buck: Analysts’ Comments

-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-08-16T08:06:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/ecb-bond-buying-encouraging-as-shows-bang-for-buck-analysts-comments.html
Analysts discuss the amount of
 government bonds  purchased by the  European Central Bank  under
its Securities Market Program last week when it began buying
Italian and Spanish debt to contain the region’s fiscal crisis.
The comments were collected from reports published by banks.  The Frankfurt-based ECB said yesterday it settled purchases
worth 22 billion euros ($31.7 billion) in the week through Aug.
12, more than the 15 billion-euro median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey of economists and strategists. That also surpasses
the 16.5 billion euros the ECB spent during the first week of
its initial foray into Greek markets in May last year.  Ken Wattret, chief euro-area economist at BNP Paribas SA in
London:  “An encouraging aspect for the ECB of the intervention is
the bang for buck. The impact on the Italian and Spanish
government bond markets has been large, and sustained, despite
the fact that the ECB will have purchased a much smaller share
of the outstanding level of debt in Italy and Spain than was the
case for other distressed markets, including  Greece  in
particular, in the first round of buying.”  Biagio Lapolla and Harvinder Sian, rate strategists at Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc in London:  “The upside surprise is likely to bring further near-term
stabilization around Italy and Spain as it highlights a real ECB
commitment to buying and provides a more credible backstop to
any attempt to restore a more appropriate  risk premium  to these
countries.  “Still, some perspective is needed beyond the short term.
For instance, the large size of the Italian and Spanish bond
markets suggests intervention amounts will be much more than
many in the council are comfortable in taking and so some
dissent going forward is likely.  “Moreover, ECB bond buying is a necessary but not
sufficient condition to preserve a stable equilibrium, and to
really stabilize the markets fiscal and political steps need to
be taken at a European level. ”  Orlando Green, a fixed-income strategist at Credit Agricole
Corporate & Investment Bank in London:  “The amount itself is not vastly important to a degree but
it was essential that it reflected that the ECB was committed to
the cause as and when needed. Rather than targeting a certain
amount of bond buying, we think the ECB will be targeting
ongoing stability in the Italian and Spanish markets.  “The crucial test for the success of the SMP program will
be whether it can continue to provide stability when both Italy
and  Spain  offer fresh bond supply.”  Barclays Capital’s Giuseppe Maraffino, a fixed-income strategist
in London:  “Yesterday, the ECB did not seem to be active in the
market, and assuming today’s buying will be relatively small as
well, we would expect the purchases for the Aug. 10 to Aug. 16
period to total around 10 billion euros.”  Ulrich Leuchtmann, head of currency strategy at Commerzbank AG
in Frankfurt:  “The ECB traders seem to be aiming for levels around 5
percent for 10-year bonds. The only new information yesterday
was that this effort required a surprisingly high intervention
volume -- obviously because the selling pressure on the part of
the investors had been particularly high. Not exactly an
encouraging signal.  “The fact that the news about the surprisingly high
intervention volume of these risky measures had a positive
effect on the euro is evidence for the inherent weakness of the
single currency.  “It must be in a pretty bad shape for the surprisingly
pronounced ECB intervention to be better than relying on the
political and real economic mechanisms to overcome the debt
crisis. Accordingly the lower end in euro-dollar seems more
attractive to us today.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  