-- 
Ecopetrol Buyers ‘Lose Heart’ as $1.4 Billion Sale Falling Short of Target

-- B y   H e a t h e r   W a l s h
-- 
2011-08-16T21:16:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/ecopetrol-buyers-lose-heart-as-1-4-billion-sale-falling-short-of-target.html
Ecopetrol SA (ECOPETL)  has received orders for
69 percent of the stock it seeks to sell in  Colombia ’s largest
offering in four years, less than its 2.5 trillion-peso ($1.4
billion) target a day before the sale is set to expire.  The company booked orders for 1.72 trillion pesos of stock
from July 27 to Aug. 14, according to an e-mail from a company
press official who can’t be identified because of corporate
policy. Colombian markets were closed yesterday for a holiday.  Orders slowed following a rout in global equity markets
that pushed Bogota-based Ecopetrol’s shares on Aug. 8 below the
offer price of 3,608 pesos for buyers paying in cash. Ecopetrol,
Colombia’s largest oil producer, may fall short of its target as
some investors shun stock purchases, said Mauricio Restrepo, an
analyst at brokerage Bolsa y Renta, which rates the stock a
“buy.”  “The sale was going well until the drop in the markets,”
Restrepo said today by telephone from Medellin, Colombia.
“Buyers lost heart. Demand was hurt a lot.”  Ecopetrol fell 15 pesos, or 0.4 percent, to 3,695 pesos at
in Bogota trading as oil declined. Ecopetrol on Aug. 9 traded as
low as 3,580 pesos. The company seeks to sell 676 million shares
at 3,700 pesos each for buyers not paying cash. Shares have
fallen 9.9 percent this year, compared with a 10 percent drop in
Colombia’s benchmark Colcap stock index.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  Chief Executive Officer Jose Sergio Gabrielli said Aug. 8 that global economic crisis and plunging
stock markets may reduce demand for assets that the company is
planning to sell. Petrobras, as the company is known, aims to
raise as much as $13.6 billion in asset sales and cost savings.  Public Offering  Ecopetrol last sold shares in November 2007 during its
initial public offering, when it raised 5.72 trillion pesos in
the largest ever issuance in the Andean nation.  The sale will help to finance Ecopetrol’s plans to increase
output to 1 million barrels a day in 2015 and 1.3 million
barrels a day in 2020. Second-quarter output rose to 727,200
barrels a day, from an average 594,400 barrels a year earlier.  Ecopetrol is exploring in Colombia, the U.S. Gulf of
 Mexico ,  Brazil  and  Peru  to increase its reserves as part of an
$80 billion investment plan this decade. The company has enough
funds to finance its investments this year even if the stock
sale fell short, according to Restrepo, who doesn’t own
Ecopetrol shares. Some pension funds may be waiting until this
week to place orders, he said.  Rising Output  Rising production at Ecopetrol has helped make Colombia
the third-largest oil producer in  South America  after Venezuela
and Brazil. Improved security also has drawn international
investors including billionaires Eike Batista and  Carlos Slim .  Crude oil for September delivery declined $1.23 to settle
at $86.65 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices
have dropped 5.2 percent this year.  President  Juan Manuel Santos  plans to sell as much as 10
percent of the government’s stake in Ecopetrol over four years
in multiple rounds. The sale, which is separate from the current
issuance, will finance infrastructure projects pending approval
of the plan by the nation’s Congress, Santos said Aug. 12.  Rising investment in oil and mining and government inroads
against guerrilla groups in the last decade helped Colombia
garner an investment-grade  credit rating  this year.  The country was raised to Baa3, the lowest level of
investment grade, from Ba1 by Moody’s Investors Service on May
31, while  Standard & Poor’s  increased Colombia to BBB- on March
16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Walsh in Bogota at 
 hlwalsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  