-- 
Elliott Gains Opening to Press for Change With Brocade Stake

-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 
2011-08-17T22:23:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/elliott-management-says-it-has-8-5-percent-stake-in-brocade-1-.html
Elliott Management Corp., the
investor that pushed Novell Inc. to sell itself last year,
amassed an 8.5 percent stake in  Brocade Communications Systems
Inc. (BRCD) , gaining an opening it could use to agitate for change.  The New York-based hedge-fund investor holds 40.8 million
shares of San Jose, California-based Brocade, according to an
Aug. 15 filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Elliott added to its stake becoming Brocade’s biggest
shareholder on Aug. 5, the day Brocade’s shares fell 28 percent
to $3.52, the biggest decline since its 1999 initial public
offering. The plunge came after the company disclosed sales and
profit that missed forecasts, citing tepid demand. Elliott may
be planning to urge Brocade to sell itself, said  Rajesh Ghai , an
analyst at ThinkEquity LLC.  “If Brocade was managed better, it could be worth much
more,” Ghai said. “It comes as no surprise that someone like
Elliott would increase its stake and try to push for a sale.”  Brocade, which has lost 29 percent of its value this year,
has a market value of $1.79 billion. The stock fell 2 cents to
$3.73 at 4 p.m. New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  Brocade has been looking for potential buyers with the
assistance of  Frank Quattrone ’s Qatalyst Partners for the past
two years, a person familiar with the matter said last month.
Dell Inc. considered buying Brocade before opting instead to
acquire Force10 Networks Inc. last month, the person said.  Potential Acquirer  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , the largest maker of database software, is a
potential acquirer, said Ghai, who has a “buy” recommendation
on Brocade and a $5 target price.  Peter Truell , a spokesman for Elliott, declined to comment,
as did John Noh, a spokesman for Brocade. Deborah Hellinger, a
spokeswoman for Redwood City, California-based Oracle, didn’t
respond to a request for comment.  Fund managers sometimes use their status as shareholders to
urge management to shift strategy or look for a buyout. Activist
investor  Carl Icahn  pressed Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. on
July 21 to explore strategic alternatives. Google Inc. said on
Aug. 15 that it bought Motorola Mobility for $12.5 billion.  After buying a stake in McGraw-Hill Cos., Jana Partners LLC
disclosed in an Aug. 1 filing it held talks with the textbook
publisher and owner of  Standard & Poor’s  about corporate
structure and future plans.  Elliott made an unsolicited $2 billion offer for Novell
last year after building an 8.5 percent stake in the Linux
software maker. Novell was later bought by Attachmate Corp. for
$2.2 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
 Jennifer Sondag  at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net . 