-- 
Telstra’s Thodey Says Google Will Deepen Android Integration

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-08-16T06:18:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/telstra-s-thodey-says-google-will-deepen-android-integration.html
David Thodey, chief executive
officer of Telstra Corp., comments on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s proposed
$12.5 billion purchase of Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc.  Melbourne-based Telstra is  Australia ’s biggest fixed-line,
mobile-phone and Internet carrier and is also the nation’s
biggest provider of phone directories through its Sensis unit.  Thodey made the comments during a business lunch in
 Melbourne  today.  On Google’s motivation:  “What I think Google has realized is that one of the
things in terms of making a very good user experience is that
the operating system in your phone and the hardware really need
a deeper level of integration. As the Android developers have
been working away on the West Coast they have had to build the
Android operating system for many different types of phones like
Samsung, you’ve got HTC, you’ve got some NEC phones etc.  “By actually acquiring Motorola mobile, which is what they
have done, they will be able to deepen the integration and make
a better product.”  On Google becoming a maker of hardware:  “The question is how will Google go at actually being a
manufacturer. Google have always had a model that they are
innovators and make money out of advertising dollars and they
never want to talk to you as a customer. If it’s a Google phone
now, who is going to provide the support etc.”  On Telstra’s relationship with Google:  “We are Google’s biggest customer here in Australia, we
sell the Android operating system. Sensis provides all their
content to Google for the  search engines . Like many of these
companies, they go through different stages and you sort of find
a way to work with them. I think Google is a very powerful and
relevant product and everyone uses them in some way. Us having
local content and local capability is enormously important for
Google, for example in the small business area because we are
talking to them every day.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  