-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Drop on Europe Economic Growth Concern

-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 
2011-08-16T21:36:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/emerging-market-stocks-set-for-biggest-two-day-gain-since-april.html
Emerging-market stocks in  Latin
America ,  Europe , the Middle East and Africa dropped after data
showed European economic growth slowed more than economists
forecast in the second quarter.  The MSCI Emerging Market Latin America Index fell 0.2
percent at 5:00 p.m. New York time, after sliding as much as 1.8
percent. The MSCI Emerging Europe, Middle East and Africa Index
declined 0.8 percent to 342.43. The benchmark emerging-markets
equity gauge rose 0.5 percent to 1,018.64, buoyed by South
Korean companies as the Kospi Index rallied 4.8 percent
following a holiday yesterday.  Gross domestic product in the 17-nation euro area rose 0.2
percent from the first quarter, when it increased 0.8 percent,
the European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said in a
statement today. Economists had forecast the economy to expand
0.3 percent, according to the median of 34 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey.  “Something of a buying opportunity begins to develop in
the sense we doubt policy makers will accept much more growth
weakness without adjusting policies,” John Lomax, an emerging-
markets strategist at HSBC Holdings Plc, said in a phone
interview from  London . “The valuations look pretty cheap. The
equity markets have underperformed a range of other cyclical
indicators. So in the sense of discount, it’s not bad news.”  Brazil ,  Saudi Arabia   Brazil’s Bovespa Index fell 0.6 percent, the first decline
in six sessions, and  Chile ’s Ipsa index slid 0.8 percent. Equity
indexes for  Israel , Saudi Arabia and  South Africa  also fell.  Poland’s stock benchmark advanced for the third session and
Turkey’s XU100 Index added 1.1 percent.  Speculation the U.S. recovery is faltering and Europe’s
debt crisis will spread dragged MSCI’s emerging-markets measure
down 10.5 percent this month. That sent valuations on the gauge
to 9.3 times estimated profits in 12 months, the lowest level
since March 2009, according to data tracked by Bloomberg.  In the U.S., production at factories, mines and utilities
rose 0.9 percent in July, almost twice the 0.5 percent median
forecast of 85 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, according
to data today from the  Federal Reserve  in  Washington . Housing
starts fell 1.5 percent to a 604,000 annual rate from June’s
613,000 pace that was less than previously estimated, figures
from the Commerce Department showed.  Fitch Ratings  affirmed its AAA credit rating for the U.S.
and said the outlook is stable, citing the nation’s central role
in the global financial system and the flexible, diverse
economy. Moody’s Investors Service affirmed its top U.S. ranking
last week while  Standard & Poor’s  on Aug. 5 cut its U.S. credit
rating to AA+.  Bovespa Drops  The Bovespa snapped a five-day rally as commodity prices
slid on European growth concern and a measure of Brazilian
inflation quickened more than forecast.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , Brazil’s state-controlled oil
company, followed crude prices lower even after reporting profit
that beat forecasts. MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA, the iron-ore
producer controlled by Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista ,
joined the rout for raw-material producers and lost 4.2 percent.  Mexico ’s Grupo Financiero Banorte SAB dropped 2 percent and
 Grupo Financiero Inbursa SA (GFINBURO) , the financial services firm
controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim , retreated 2.9 percent
after French President Nicolas Sarkozy said his nation and
 Germany  will propose a financial transaction tax.  “We are probably very close to the lows of the year; the
reason I don’t emphatically say this is the buying moment is we
still have an inflation problem in the big emerging markets,”
 Adrian Mowat , the chief  Asia  and emerging-market strategist at
JPMorgan, said in a Bloomberg Television interview in  Hong Kong .  Poland,  Turkey , Russia  Poland’s WIG20 Index advanced 2.4 percent. Russia’s Micex
Index slid 2 percent. The FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index lost
0.6 percent in Johannesburg.  OTP Bank Nyrt.,  Hungary ’s biggest lender, fell 3.4 percent
after statistics office data showed gross domestic product was
unchanged from the first quarter. The median estimate of nine
economists in a Bloomberg survey was for an increase of 0.4
percent.  India ’s Sensitive Index slipped 0.7 percent. The Shanghai
Composite declined 0.7 percent.  Hyundai Glovis Co., the logistics unit of Hyundai Motor
Group, advanced 8.3 percent in  Seoul  after saying second-quarter
net income jumped 92 percent. In Taipei, Compal Communications
climbed 7 percent, the most since July 5.  South Korea ’s ELK
Corp. and Interflex Co., which supply parts to Motorola, surged
by the daily limit of 15 percent after Google Inc. said
yesterday it agree to buy Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. for
about $12.5 billion in cash.  The Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index of eastern European,
 Middle East  and Africa credit-default swaps gained two basis
points to 241.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries climbed two basis points, or 0.02
percentage points, to 3.63 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in Beijing at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  