-- 
Emerging Stocks Not Yet a Buy Amid BRIC Inflation ‘Problem,’ JPMorgan Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-16T09:19:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/emerging-stocks-not-yet-a-buy-jpmorgan.html
Emerging-market stocks may not have
reached their lows because inflation has yet to slow in the so-
called BRIC nations of  Brazil , Russia, India and  China ,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “We are probably very close to the lows of the year; the
reason I don’t emphatically say this is the buying moment is we
still have an inflation problem in the big emerging markets,”
 Adrian Mowat , the chief Asia and emerging-market strategist at
JPMorgan, said in a Bloomberg Television interview in  Hong Kong .  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index rose 0.5 percent to 1,018.5
at 5:16 p.m. in Hong Kong. The gauge has slumped 12 percent this
year, compared with a 6.4 percent drop in the MSCI World Index
of developed nations, as countries from India to Brazil raised
borrowing costs to curb rising consumer prices. The  MSCI BRIC (MXBRIC) 
Index has fallen 14 percent in 2011.  India’s wholesale price index rose 9.22 percent in July,
the commerce ministry said today, the eighth month of inflation
above 9 percent. The central bank has increased interest rates
11 times since the start of last year. China’s July
inflation rate of 6.5 percent was the highest in three years and
compares with an official target of 4 percent.  Brazil’s central bank has raised its target rate five times
this year. Consumer-price increases have stayed above the bank’s
target range of 2.5 percent to 6.5 percent since April as rising
wages and credit growth stoked consumption.  “Equity markets are going to hit their lows when growth
has slowed down, inflation is coming off and analysts are very
aggressively downgrading earnings,” Mowat said.  Russia’s inflation was 9 percent in July. Bank Rossii left
 interest rates  unchanged for a third month in August, citing a
balance between risks from inflation and a slowing economy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Irene Shen in Shanghai at 
 ishen4@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Li in Hong Kong at 
 sli31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Richard Frost at 
 rfrost4@bloomberg.net  