-- 
Merkel-Sarkozy Accord Avoids Euro Bond in Favor of Integration to Fix Debt

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 
2011-08-17T07:42:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/merkel-sarkozy-propose-closer-regional-cooperation-shunning-euro-bonds.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  rejected an expansion of the
440 billion-euro ($633 billion) rescue fund and rebuffed calls
for joint euro borrowing to end the debt crisis, saying greater
economic integration was needed first.  The leaders of Europe’s two biggest economies agreed to
press for closer euro-area cooperation, tougher deficit rules
and a harmonization of their corporate tax rates. A plan to
resubmit a financial-transaction tax, which the European Union
rejected in 2010, sent European stocks lower.  Sarkozy and Merkel spoke after a two-hour meeting in Paris
yesterday as investors clamored for indications that they would
do more to end the euro-area debt crisis amid a slowdown in
their economies. Unprecedented bailouts by governments and the
 European Central Bank  have so far failed to stamp out concerns
that rattled markets in AAA-rated France last week.  “What they say is not going to work,” said Marchel Alexandrovich, an economist at Jefferies International Ltd. in
 London . “We could easily be back in September with them
discussing either expanding the fund to 1.5 to 2 trillion or
committing to a euro bond by 2013 or facing breakup. The
politicians have their heads in the sand again.”  With Sarkozy proclaiming their “absolute determination”
to defend the euro, the leaders proposed debt limits be written
into national law and establishing a “euro council” to be
headed by European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy  as part of
a planned “economic government” for  Europe .  Van Rompuy 
declined immediate comment.  EU Rules  Plans to toughen deficit rules and establish constitutional
balanced-budget provisions are already working their way through
the EU machinery.  “It’s very obvious that in order for this to work we need
a stronger convergence in finance and economic policy within the
euro zone, and  Germany  and France are at the vanguard of that
effort,” Merkel told reporters.  Shares of financial firms and securities exchanges fell
after Sarkozy said finance ministers would be charged with
developing a transaction tax, which he called a “priority.” He
didn’t provide details or specify if the levy would apply to
euro countries or all 27 in the EU, which includes Britain.  Stock Exchange Owners  Deutsche Boerse AG, which is merging with  NYSE Euronext (NYX) ,
the New York Stock Exchange owner, lost as much as 4.9 percent.
NYSE Euronext slid 8.4 percent in New York trading yesterday.
 Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) , which operates venues in  Nordic
countries , fell 2.8 percent,  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE) ,
owner of ICE Futures Europe in London, shed 4.5 percent.  The euro weakened 0.5 percent to $1.434 at 9:10 a.m. in
Berlin.  EU finance chiefs failed to agree in September 2010 on a
transaction tax, which Merkel pushed to help repair the damage
to national budgets caused by the banking crisis. “It’s
politically desirable and it’s financially unpredictable,”
International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde ,
then French finance minister, said at the time.  Any proposal for cross-border taxes in the EU requires
unanimity among governments. French leaders have proposed a
version of the levy, known as a Tobin Tax, since 2001.  Sarkozy and Merkel revived the tax as one element of a
four-part package they proposed to expand economic cooperation
and restore confidence that Europe will be able to reduce its
debt load and curb its national budget deficits. In  France  and
Germany, government debt totals more than 80 percent of gross
domestic product, compared with the EU ceiling of 60 percent. In
Greece, it’s headed to more than 160 percent.  ‘Work Steadily’  “We need to work steadily and step by step to win back
confidence,” the German Chancellor told reporters.  That may not be fast enough for investors who sent
borrowing costs to euro-era records in Italy and  Spain  this
month, forcing the ECB to aid the euro region’s third- and
fourth-biggest economies and triggering calls for euro bonds and
an expansion in the bailout fund, the European Financial
Stability Facility.  Sarkozy said announcing an increase in the rescue pool
risked backfiring.  “If we tripled the fund, then at the next press conference
you would ask us ‘why didn’t you multiply it by four,’” he
said. “We’re trying to manage it seriously and reasonably. We
believe the fund is sufficient.”  Red Line  Their willingness to consider euro bonds, or joint
guarantees among the 17 euro nations, underscored how far the
euro’s leaders have moved in the past two years, as they erased
what had been a red line.  “We suspect it would have been ruled out much more
completely just weeks ago,” said Malcolm Barr, a London-based
economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Euro bonds would provide  market access  to those now shut
out, such as  Greece  and Ireland, and raise borrowing costs in
the top-rated countries.  “We could imagine having euro bonds one day, but at the
end of a European integration process, not at the beginning of
an integration process,” Sarkozy said.  “In the current state of European institutions, we do not
have the democratic legitimacy to do so,” he said. “Euro bonds
may be the outcome of an integration process, not the prelude.
They would seriously threaten the most stable euro-zone
countries with the top ratings and they would then have to
guarantee debt that they do not control.”  ‘Healthy Dose’  While “a healthy dose of skepticism” is warranted as to
whether the German and French leaders can achieve closer
integration, their announcement showed “a clear and pragmatic
grasp of the steps needed to keep the Euro zone alive,” said
Marco Annunziata, chief economist at General Electric Co.  “The steps needed to ensure greater fiscal and economic
integration may seem so daunting as to be beyond the powers of
EU leaders,” he said. “But as the alternative would most
likely be a disintegration of the Euro zone and the collapse of
the decades-long European project, they will be taken.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Paris at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 Hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  