-- 
Erste Isn’t Interested as BCP Puts Poland Unit Up for Sale

-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 
2011-08-16T15:44:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/erste-says-it-isn-t-interested-acquiring-bcp-s-bank-millennium-in-poland.html
     Aug. 16 (Bloomberg) --  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) , an Austrian
lender trying to expand into Poland, said it isn’t interested in
buying  Bank Millennium SA (MIL) , Poland’s seventh-largest bank by
assets, which is being put up for sale by  Banco Comercial
Portugues SA. (BCP)   “We are not interested” and therefore won’t ask for
further information on Millennium, Erste spokeswoman Hana Cygonkova said today in an e-mailed response to questions. BCP
will next week sound out suitors for its stake in the lender, a
sale that may value Millennium at about 1.4 billion euros ($2
billion), two people with knowledge of the matter said
yesterday.  While Erste and its Austrian peer  Raiffeisen Bank
International AG (RBI)  are the second- and third-biggest eastern
European lenders by assets, respectively, both are seeking to
expand in the region’s biggest economy. Erste Chief Executive
Officer Andreas Treichl said last month he considers  Poland  a
market where Erste should be present and is “carefully
looking” at opportunities.  “We do carefully look at the market, there seem to be a
number of opportunities,” Treichl said in a conference call for
analysts July 29. “What we’re looking for is really high
quality, extremely strong liquidity, top management, and
something that is within our reach,” he said.  Polish Assets  Poland is one of the few markets in Eastern Europe where
bank assets are for sale as some Western European lenders exit
the area to repair balance sheets or comply with European Union
conditions for state aid.  KBC Groep NV (KBC) , the recipient of a 7
billion-euro bailout from the Belgian government, said last
month that it plans to sell its Polish  Kredyt Bank SA (KRB)  as well as
its insurance unit to raise capital. Erste in June said it isn’t
interested in Kredyt, which ranks eighth among Polish banks.  Raiffeisen agreed in February to buy EFG Eurobank Ergasias
SA’s Polbank to become Poland’s sixth-biggest lender by assets.
The sale is due to be closed by early next year, Raiffeisen said
June 30. The lender continues to observe the market and will
have a closer look at suitable targets, spokesman Michael Palzer
said in an e-mail when asked about Millennium.  UniCredit SpA’s  Bank Pekao SA (PEO) , Poland’s second-biggest
lender, “will capture” opportunities to “create value for our
shareholders,” Pekao’s Chief Executive Officer Luigi Lovaglio
told investors in a conference call Aug. 3.  BCP, based in Oporto, is exploring the sale as  Portugal ’s
central bank presses lenders to reinforce their capital this
year and next. While regulators found Portuguese lenders had
enough capital to withstand a recession in European Union stress
tests last month, the Bank of Portugal urged Banco Comercial and
Espirito Santo Financial Group SA to create a bigger cushion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  