-- 
Europe’s Utilities Offer No Refuge as States Search for Cash

-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 
2011-08-17T16:15:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/europe-s-utilities-no-safe-haven-as-states-search-for-cash.html
European utilities no longer offer
investors a refuge from turbulent stock markets as governments
seeking to close deficits use power companies to raise cash.  Europe ’s main utilities index has fallen 41 percent
compared with an 17 percent drop in the STOXX Europe 600 index
since a recession in the region began in 2008. That’s a reversal
from the three-year  bear market  starting in March 2000, when
utilities did better than the wider market.  Last weekend,  Italy  joined Germany and Finland in imposing
levies on utilities, whose shares typically hold up in a slump
because of steady electricity demand and higher-than-average
dividends. The industry also is investing hundreds of billions
of euros to meet the European Union’s renewable energy targets
at a time when austerity is holding back economic growth.  “Utilities are not defensive anymore,” said Lueder Schumacher, an analyst at  UniCredit SpA. (UCG)  “They were clearly
exposed when this whole credit crisis kicked off, only banks did
worse. This is because they’re state proxies and you get states
helping themselves to money via utilities.”  The STOXX 600 Utilities index gained 0.8 percent today.  The imposition of a 170 million euro ($240 million) tax on
nuclear and hydro generation in Finland, as well as Germany’s
decision to introduce a levy on nuclear fuel rods, has drawn
attention to the political risks, Citigroup Inc. analyst  Peter Atherton  said in an interview. Generation profits have also been
hit by over-capacity and higher commodity costs.  Broaden Scope  Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  this weekend won
approval for a law that according to UniCredit will net the
government 1.8 billion euros from utilities in 2012 alone. The
changes increase the  tax rate  on power producers and broadens
the scope of the levy to include distribution companies. Power
grid operator Terna Rete Elettrica SpA declined 2.4 cents in
Milan trading today after dropping by a record 14 percent
yesterday.  “In 2004-2008, the sector had fantastic run, the big
market cap stocks were driven forward by generation,” Atherton
said. “The complete reverse has been true over the last four
years. The ones that have done worst are big market cap,
generation businesses.”  German utility shares have been among the biggest losers.
EON AG,  Germany ’s largest utility, has dropped 34 percent this
year and announced plans to cut 10 percent of its workforce and
reduce dividends last week. RWE, the second-biggest, has seen
its shares plunge 45 percent this year.  Faced with the cost of bailing out Portugal, Ireland and
 Greece , as well as their own budget deficits, European leaders
are scrambling for funds. Utilities, many of which are partially
state owned, are an attractive source of  tax revenue , according
to Schumacher.  Solar Power  Spain  trimmed subsidies for solar power in January to rein
in electricity prices. The policy change followed a similar move
last year by the Czech government, which imposed a tax on
revenues from existing solar parks. The Dutch government
announced plans to scale back incentives for offshore wind
projects in May.  “Dividends aren’t safe at all,” Schumacher said. “In
2008, the market started to crash and basically there was this
attitude of putting your head in the sand and pretending it was
just a financial crisis and then it became clear that the
financial crisis has an effect on the real economy: power demand
was hit quite severely.”  Lower Dividends  Other companies that have warned dividends may be lower
include  Veolia Environnement SA (VIE) , this year’s biggest loser in
the STOXX 600 utilities index, hit by a drop in demand for waste
management services. Power generator EDP-Energias de Portugal SA
may also be forced to reconsider its dividend policy if the
country’s economy fails to rebound, Deutsche Bank AG analysts
said.  The outlook for utilities may improve as excess capacity in
countries including the U.K. and Germany shrinks, increasing
power prices, according to Deutsche Bank.  In the U.K., 12,000 megawatts of coal and oil plants are
due to come offline by 2015 and another 9,800 megawatts of
nuclear and gas generation will close over the same period. The
U.K.’s margin of reliable capacity over peak demand will go from
27 percent to a shortfall by 2018, the analysts said. Capacity
in Germany will be tight by 2015, they said.  Companies with prices fixed by government regulators, like
network operators  National Grid Plc (NG/)  and U.K. water utilities
Pennon Plc and Severn Trent Plc, are among the few that still
provide stable returns to investors, Atherton said.  ‘Defensive Stocks’  “Network stocks continue to behave as normal defensive
stocks, they’ve done what you’d expect them to do and that’s
also been the case for the most part in  Asia  and  North
America ,” the analyst said.  Earlier this month, a group led by Hong Kong billionaire Li
Ka-shing’s  Cheung Kong Infrastructure Holdings Ltd. (1038)  agreed to
buy  Northumbrian Water Group Plc (NWG)  for 2.4 billion pounds ($3.9
billion) in its second U.K. acquisition in a year.  Still, Italy’s tax on Terna and Snam shows regulated
companies may not be immune. Even these stocks are at risk if
uncertainty continues, Schumacher said.  “As long as the sovereign crisis continues, utilities will
struggle irrespective of valuation and, more or less, they’re
all exposed,” he said. “Regulated utilities were doing well,
but now they’re being caught up into the sovereign crisis. It’s
difficult to see places to hide.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  