-- 
Euro Falls Second Day Versus Yen as Joint-Bond Plan Rejected; Franc Gains

-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 
2011-08-17T09:32:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/euro-holds-fall-after-sarkozy-merkel-reject-euro-bonds-before-cpi-data.html
The euro weakened for a second day
against the yen after the leaders of Germany and  France  rejected
calls for joint bond issuance to stem the region’s debt crisis
amid signs growth is slowing.  The 17-nation currency depreciated most against the Swiss
franc, which appreciated against all of its major counterparts.
 Switzerland ’s central bank stopped short of indicating whether
it’s considering pegging the franc to the euro, though it said
it will take further measures if needed to weaken the currency.
The dollar fell against the yen before reports this week that
are forecast to show U.S. price pressures are easing.  “The outcome of yesterday’s meeting was disappointing,”
said  Sebastien Galy , a senior foreign-exchange strategist at
Societe Generale SA in London. “Most people expected a move
toward a framework that would include a common euro bond.
There’s some reserve diversification out of the dollar, and
that’s supporting the yen.”  The euro slipped 0.1 percent to 110.49 yen at 10:16 a.m. in
 London . It erased a decline of as much as 0.6 percent against
the dollar, climbing 0.2 percent to $1.4433. The dollar slipped
0.3 percent to 76.54 yen.  The franc gained 1.2 percent to 1.13244 versus the euro. It
strengthened 1.4 percent against the dollar to 78.47 centimes.  Merkel-Sarkozy Meeting  “Most of the move in the euro was linked to the Swiss
National Bank announcement, which also disappointed the market,
and that pulled euro-Swiss sharply lower,” Galy said.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  also rebuffed expanding the region’s 440-
billion-euro ($632 billion) rescue fund. A plan to resubmit a
proposal for a financial-transaction tax, which the European
Union rejected in 2010, sent U.S. stocks lower yesterday.  The Swiss National Bank today said it aims to expand banks’
so-called sight deposits, cash available for immediate
withdrawal, to 200 billion francs ($254 billion) from 120
billion francs. The SNB said it will also employ foreign-
exchange swaps, will keep buying back outstanding SNB bills, and
is ready to take more measures if needed.  “There were strong expectations, maybe too much of an
expectation, from foreign-exchange market participants for the
announcement of some kind of SNB intervention” or a peg to the
euro, Steven Saywell, head of foreign-exchange strategy for
 Europe  at BNP Paribas SA in London, said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “On The Move” with  Owen Thomas .  Euro ‘Top End’  The euro weakened against most of its 16 major peers
tracked by Bloomberg.  “European leaders haven’t addressed the underlying problem
of deficits in the individual countries, and the exposure for
banks and the crisis is set to bubble on,” said Derek Mumford,
a Sydney-based director at Rochford Capital, a foreign-exchange
and interest-rate risk-management firm. “Everything that’s
going on in Europe would make it the sickest one at the moment.
The euro is possibly at the top end of its range.”  Euro-region inflation slowed in July as Europe’s deepening
debt crisis and a faltering global economy damped the growth
outlook, data showed today.  The inflation rate in the 17-nation euro area fell to 2.5
percent, down from 2.7 percent in June, the European Union’s
statistics office in Luxembourg said. That’s in line with an
initial estimate published on July 29 and exceeded the  European
Central Bank ’s 2 percent limit for an eighth month.  Inflation Data  A Credit Suisse AG index shows traders are betting that the
ECB will cut its benchmark interest rate of 1.5 percent by 11
basis points. A report yesterday showed the euro-area economy
grew 0.2 percent in the second quarter, its worst performance
since emerging from the last recession in 2009.  The dollar slipped for a second day versus the yen before
Labor Department data that economists said will show a 0.1
percent gain in the producer-price index for July, according to
a Bloomberg News survey. The so-called core measure, which
excludes volatile food and energy costs, probably increased 0.2
percent after a 0.3 percent advance in June.  A report tomorrow will probably show consumer prices
excluding food and fuel costs climbed 0.2 percent, the smallest
gain in three months, according to a separate survey.  “We have no sign of the U.S. coming out of this slow
growth period,” said Kurt Magnus, executive director of
currency sales at Nomura Holdings Inc. in Sydney. “That’s
bearish for the  U.S. dollar .”  Aussie, Kiwi  The dollar has slumped 6.5 percent so far this year, the
worst performer among the 10 currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes.  Australia’s and  New Zealand ’s currencies declined against
the yen as concern the global economic recovery is losing
momentum curbed demand for higher-yielding investments.  “There are all sorts of hurdles around in global
markets,” said  Sean Callow , a senior currency strategist at
Westpac Banking Corp. in Sydney. “That will hurt risk appetite
and that would hurt Aussie and kiwi in particular.”  New Zealand’s dollar declined to 63.91 yen from 64.21 yen
in  New York  yesterday. It dropped 0.2 percent to 83.41 U.S.
cents after earlier falling as low as 83.13 cents.  Australia ’s
currency fell to 80.38 yen from 80.53 yen and bought $1.0489
from $1.0486.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Jenkins in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  