-- 
European Economy Slows More Than Forecast as Debt Crisis Saps German Might

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-08-16T12:05:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/europe-s-second-quarter-expansion-slows-more-than-forecast-on-debt-crisis.html
European economic growth slowed more
than economists forecast in the second quarter as  Germany ’s
recovery almost ground to a halt amid the worsening sovereign-
debt crisis.  Gross domestic product in the 17-nation euro area rose 0.2
percent from the first quarter, when it increased 0.8 percent,
the European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said in a
statement today. That’s the worst performance since the euro
region emerged from a recession in late 2009. Economists had
forecast the economy to expand 0.3 percent, according to the
median of 34 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Europe ’s economy may struggle to gather strength as
governments from Italy to  Spain  step up budget cuts to fight the
debt crisis. In Germany, Europe’s largest economy, growth almost
stalled in the second quarter. German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
will meet French President Nicolas Sarkozy today in Paris under
pressure to do more to combat the fiscal crisis.  “Growth may virtually stagnate in the second half and
there’s a threat of a renewed recession,” said Martin van Vliet, senior economist at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam. “It’s up
to Merkel and Sarkozy to prevent further contagion to the
economy; the longer the turbulences persist, the higher the risk
of a recession.”  German Slowdown  The euro declined from a three-week peak against the dollar
and European stocks fell for the first time in four sessions,
with the Stoxx Europe 600 Index dropping 1.6 percent. The euro
traded at $1.4363 at 1:04 p.m. in  London , down 0.6 percent on
the day.  Euro-area exports dropped a seasonally adjusted 4.7 percent
in June from the previous month, when they rose 1.5 percent, the
statistics office said in a separate report today. Imports
slumped 4.1 percent and the trade deficit widened to 1.6 billion
euros ($2.3 billion) from 800 million euros.  German GDP rose 0.1 percent in the second quarter after
increasing 1.3 percent in the previous three months. That’s the
worst performance since a contraction in the first quarter of
2009. The French economy unexpectedly stalled in the April-June
period, while Italy’s GDP increased 0.3 percent.  “With Germany’s economy faltering, the euro region didn’t
have any significant growth impulses,” said  Alexander Krueger ,
chief economist at Bankhaus Lampe KG in Dusseldorf, Germany.
“The second half will only show a modest expansion overall.”  Financial Turmoil  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , the region’s biggest automaker, last month
forecast the western European market will be “burdened” in the
second half by governments’ fiscal woes.  Adding to signs of slowdown, European manufacturing growth
eased in July and economic confidence slumped to the lowest in
almost a year. German investors were the most pessimistic in 2
1/2 years last month and executive confidence also weakened.
Industrial output unexpectedly dropped in June.  “A slowdown was to be expected” after an “extremely
strong first quarter” in most countries, Thomas Herrmann, an
economist at Credit Suisse Group AG in Zurich, told Bloomberg
Television before today’s report. “The important question will
be to what extent the recent financial turmoil and debt crisis
will have knock-on effects on confidence.”  European leaders last month were forced to pledge a second
aid package to  Greece  to prevent the crisis from spreading to
larger nations. The  European Central Bank  earlier this month
started purchasing Italian and Spanish government debt and
extended its unlimited lending to banks through the end of the
year to ease tensions on financial markets.  Budget Crisis   While ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  cited  “ongoing
tensions”  on financial markets among the growth risks, the
central bank last month increased borrowing costs a second time
this year, bringing the benchmark to 1.5 percent, to fight price
pressures.  “The best we can hope for is policy-rate stability through
the rest of the year,”  Steven Barrow , the London-based head of
Group-of-10 currency research at Standard Bank Plc, said in an
e-mailed note. The prospects for a rate cut are “more dependent
on a downward spiral in the region’s debt problems than a lurch
toward recession.”  Increasing concern about a budget crisis spilling over into
the broader economy led to an 11 percent decline in the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index over the past two months. Germany’s benchmark
DAX Index has slumped 15 percent over that period, bringing
annual losses to 13 percent.  Kion Group GmbH, a German forklift maker, last week
signaled concern that tougher austerity measures could hurt
economic growth and earnings.  Spending Cuts  “The current sovereign-debt crisis could have a material
adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results
of operations,” the company said on Aug. 12. “There could be
another downturn or so-called double-dip recession.”  With governments from  Italy  to Ireland toughening spending
cuts to lower their debt burdens and plug budget gaps, companies
have relied on faster-expanding markets for order growth. German
sports-car maker Porsche AG said on Aug. 1 that its first-half
operating profit jumped 59 percent, with sales increasing
fastest in  China .  Euro-area exports to the U.S. rose 17 percent in the five
months through May from a year earlier, while shipments to the
U.K., the euro area’s largest market, increased 14 percent.
Exports to China surged 27 percent. Detailed data are published
with a one-month lag.  Sales Growth  Companies may struggle to maintain their sales growth as
economies around the world show signs of cooling.  Hong Kong ’s
economy shrank for the first time since the global financial
crisis in the April-June period. In  Russia , economic growth
weakened for a second straight quarter.  With exports cooling, Royal Bank of  Scotland  lowered its
2012 euro-area growth forecast to 1.1 percent from 1.6 percent,
economist  Nick Matthews  said in an e-mailed note on Aug. 12. In
the third quarter, the economy probably expanded 0.1 percent, he
said.  “The external environment appears to have deteriorated
more meaningfully than expected,” he said. “In an environment
of continued periphery stress, we expect growth in the second
half of this year to be much weaker than previously forecast.”  Second-quarter GDP rose 1.7 percent in the euro region from
a year earlier, today’s report showed. The statistics office
will release a breakdown of the GDP data next month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  