-- 
Texas A&M Mulls Athletic Future After Nebraska, Colorado Desert Big 12

-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 
2011-08-16T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/texas-a-m-mulls-athletic-future-after-nebraska-colorado-desert-big-12.html
Texas  A&M University is assessing
whether to remain in the Big 12 after  Nebraska  and  Colorado 
officially left the conference last month.  The Aggies inquired about joining the  Southeastern
Conference  and may look at other possibilities for its athletics
programs after the board of regents told school President R.
Bowen Loftin to take any action necessary over A&M’s future
athletic home.  “It’s not so much what’s wrong with the Big 12, it’s
what’s right for  Texas A&M  and where we want to go in time,”
Loftin said last night in  video comments  on the school’s
website.  The  Big 12  will begin the football season Sept. 2 with 10
schools after the defection of Nebraska to the  Big Ten  and
Colorado’s move to the  Pac-12 . Both schools, which said in June
2010 they would be leaving the Big 12, began play in their new
conferences last month.  The SEC, whose teams have won the past five national
football championships, yesterday said it will remain a 12-
school conference for the time being, nixing A&M’s prospects of
joining in the near future.  Mark Emmert, president of the  National Collegiate Athletic
Association , called on top college officials to meet to discuss
how to realign conferences in an orderly way, the New York Times
reported.  College Station , Texas-based A&M hasn’t set any timetable
on whether to leave the Big 12 and any decision will follow a
“lengthy” process, Loftin said.  “What we do, if anything, will be in the best interest of
Texas A&M and the state of Texas,” he said. “We’re also very
concerned about the members of the Big 12. We don’t want the Big
12 to go away. We have no intention of doing anything that might
precipitate that.”  The Big 12 wants the Aggies to remain a member, conference
Commissioner Dan Beebe told  USA Today  on Aug. 14.  “We’re just working hard to try to figure out how they can
stay with us because of the value that institution has and the
quality academic and athletic programs it offers,” Beebe told
the newspaper.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 