-- 
Mexico Fines UBS Equities Trader, Bank of Nova Scotia, HSBC

-- B y   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z   a n d   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 
2011-08-16T13:13:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/mexico-fines-ubs-equities-trader-bank-of-nova-scotia-hsbc.html
Mexico ’s National Banking and
Securities  Commission  fined Hans Klingbeil, an equities trader
at  UBS AG (UBSN) , 1.5 million pesos ($123,000) for using inside
information to make stock recommendations to his clients.  The commission also fined Bank of Nova Scotia’s local unit
10 million pesos for nine violations, including failure to give
clients proper information to make trading decisions, according
to rulings posted on the agency’s  website  and dated Aug. 8.  The fines were the first issued by the commission since
September, according to the website. The commission also fined
Grupo Financiero Banorte SAB 48,670 pesos for failing to refuse
a client’s request that violated securities laws and fined  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  19,468 pesos for failing to notify the agency about
changes in its board of directors. UBS wasn’t fined in
Klingbeil’s case.  Carlos Lopez-Moctezuma, a spokesman for the commission,
said yesterday that all the fines have been paid and there are
no appeals pending for any of them.  Klingbeil, who works out of UBS’s offices in Stamford,
 Connecticut , after serving as head of the bank’s equity trading
in Mexico City, didn’t return voice and e-mail messages seeking
comment. Christiaan Brakman, a spokesman for Zurich-based UBS,
declined to comment on the case, saying the bank wasn’t accused
of any wrongdoing and that UBS “takes its regulatory
responsibilities with the utmost seriousness.”  Humberto Castro, a spokesman for  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  in
Mexico City, didn’t return a message seeking comment on the
fine. Press officials for Banorte and HSBC didn’t return voice
and e-mail messages seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net ;
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  