-- 
Express Scripts Seen Losing Sales During Antitrust Review

-- B y   P a t   W e c h s l e r
-- 
2011-08-16T20:46:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/express-scripts-seen-slipping-during-review.html
Express Scripts Inc. (ESRX) ’s bid for  Medco
Health Solutions Inc. (MHS)  may boost competition in the U.S.
marketplace as rivals challenge the merged company’s ability to
serve its largest clients and seek to capitalize on a lengthy
antitrust review of the deal.  “That becomes an argument for approving the deal,” said
 Art Henderson , a Jefferies & Co. analyst in Nashville,
 Tennessee , in a telephone interview. The pharmacy services
industry “has always been competitive and, in the short run,
this makes it more so.”  Express Scripts, of  St. Louis , offered $29.1 billion for
Franklin Lakes, New Jersey-based Medco on July 21 in a deal that
combines two of the top three U.S. pharmacy services providers,
spurring a regulatory review that may take as long as six months
to conclude. In the meantime, Express Scripts must plot how to
integrate two companies that historically have served different
types of clients as 2013 contracts come up for renewal.  Express Scripts in the past has concentrated on midsize
clients while Medco and  CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS) , the No. 2 pharmacy
services manager behind Express Scripts, focused on larger
companies with different demands, said Helene Wolk, an analyst
with Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York.  “Medco and CVS are much more alike than Medco and Express
Scripts, and that may help CVS with customers that want to stay
with a Medco-like company,” Wolk said in a telephone interview.  Largest Customers  Some larger companies ask that vendors guarantee that
member phone calls be answered within a certain number of
minutes, a service smaller clients may not have the muscle to
demand, she said. CVS may gain an edge by questioning whether
Medco’s capacity to handle larger companies will be as robust
once the merger is completed and  Express Scripts  management is
in control, Wolk said.  “There’s no doubt there will be attrition,” Jefferies’
Henderson said. “This opens up an opportunity for CVS in
particular.”  Express Scripts, Medco and CVS in Woonsocket, Rhode Island,
declined requests for interviews.  More competition among pharmacy benefit managers may
satisfy the demands of an antitrust review that will weigh
whether rivals offer viable alternatives that can keep prices to
customers low, said Robert Maness, a College Station, Texas-
based economic and antitrust consultant with Charles River
Associates. The more business lost by Medco or Express Scripts
during the review, the more it proves that customers have
financially attractive options, he said.  Deal Skepticism  “To the extent that employers can easily switch to other
PBMs, that would give the Federal Trade Commission some
comfort,” Maness said in a telephone interview. “And you can
bet when they lose a contract, Express Scripts will be on the
phone to the FTC letting them know.”  Investors are skeptical that the deal will be approved,
given the spread between the takeover offer of $71.36 a share in
cash and stock and Medco’s share price of $53.94 at 4 p.m.  The industry’s focus now is on 2012 when bigger customers
will negotiate new deals for contracts expiring in 2013, Wolk
said.  Coventry Health Care Inc. (CVH)  in Bethesda,  Maryland , is among
the large Medco clients with a contract coming due in early
2013. The agreement involves about $3 billion to $4 billion in
revenue and covers the insurer’s Medicare and commercial plan
participants, she said.  MedImpact  Other contracts set to renew include agreements with the
states of  New Jersey  and Ohio. The New Jersey contract is valued
at about $1.2 billion and the Ohio agreement is estimated at
about $500 million, Wolk said.  “Medco customers have always been so loyal,” said John Gardynik, senior vice president of MedImpact Healthcare Systems
Inc., a closely held pharmacy benefits manager in San Diego,
 California . “That’s not the case now, and I have seen Medco
customers out in the market looking for alternatives.”  MedImpact fills about 150 million prescriptions annually,
Gardynik said, compared with the combined Express Scripts-Medco,
which may handle as many as 1.2 billion. The company offers
guaranteed per-member, per-month pricing, something the largest
pharmacy managers haven’t wanted to do, he said.  Drew Crawford, chief executive officer of closely held
Benecard PBF, a pharmacy-services company based in Orlando,
 Florida , said his phone has been “ringing off the hook since
the deal was announced, with questions from customers and
potential customers and pharmacists trying to understand what it
means for them.”  Acquisitions  Pharmacy benefits managers like Express Scripts charge
employers and government for handling worker drug claims and
negotiating prices with drugmakers. The more prescriptions a
company handles, the more leverage it carries in getting lower
prices, and the more ability it gains to present cost-conscious
deals to prospective clients and boost revenue.  The merger may also spur consolidation as smaller companies
grow concerned they won’t be able to compete, said Eugene Goldenberg, an analyst at BB&T Capital in New York.  Catalyst Health Systems Inc. in Rockville, Maryland, is
already looking for potential acquisitions, even as it
integrates the pharmacy benefits business of  Walgreen Co. (WAG)  in
Deerfield,  Illinois , it bought in June, Goldenberg said. The
company fills about 70 million prescriptions, according to
Wolk’s data.  UnitedHealth May Benefit  SXC Health Solutions Corp. (SXC)  in Lisle, Illinois, handling 40
million prescriptions a year, is also a potential target and
acquirer, Goldenberg said. The company announced on Aug. 3 the
purchase of a small closely held, for-profit pharmacy unit in
San Antonio called PTRx Inc. and SaveDirectRx, its exclusive
mail-order pharmacy provider, for as much as $81.5 million.  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)  of Minnetonka,  Minnesota , with a
pharmacy benefits unit called OptumRx, also may benefit from the
Express Scripts-Medco deal, said Maness of Charles River. Medco
announced July 21 that an $11 billion contract with UnitedHealth
wouldn’t be renewed after expiring in December 2012.  UnitedHealth will take the Medco business in-house, Tyler Mason, a UnitedHealth spokesman, said today in an interview.
Analysts had expected the insurer would choose to do so.  With the Medco business, which covered the insurer’s
commercial plans, UnitedHealth will fill about 500 million
prescriptions annually, Wolk said.  Vulnerable to Attack  Medco, accused of corporate misconduct, already has been
vulnerable to attack, losing at least $3.5 billion in contracts
this year before the takeover was announced. A report
commissioned by the California Public Employees’ Retirement
System, the largest U.S. pension system, accused Medco employees
of using improper favors to win Calpers’s pharmacy contract.  On Aug. 3, Blue Cross and Blue Shield of  North Carolina ,
its sixth-biggest client, said it also would switch business to
rival Prime Therapeutics of Eagan, Minnesota. The contract
generates $1.6 billion annually, according to Lawrence Marsh, an
analyst at  Barclays Capital  in  New York . The move isn’t
connected to Express Scripts’s proposed takeover, said Lew
Borman, a spokesman for North Carolina Blue Cross.  Prime Therapeutics fills about 143 million prescriptions,
according to Wolk’s data.  “This is a very different market these days,” Benecard’s
Crawford said. “Medco isn’t Medco anymore because of the
Calpers thing. It was once the consolidator and now it’s getting
swallowed up.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pat Wechsler in New York at 
 pwechsler@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  