-- 
Facebook Says Contract Shows Claims are Phony

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-08-16T15:10:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/facebook-says-authentic-ceglia-contract-undermines-his-ownership-claims.html
Facebook Inc. said its discovery of
an “authentic contract” between its chief executive officer,
 Mark Zuckerberg , and  Paul Ceglia  shows the western New York
man’s claims to part-ownership of the company are phony.  The document, which doesn’t mention Facebook, was found on
Ceglia’s computer, embedded in electronic data from 2004,
according to papers filed by Facebook yesterday in federal court
in Buffalo, New York. It refers only to StreetFax, a company
Ceglia was trying to start at the time.  Facebook attached a blurry image of the contract to its
court papers. The document, dated April 28, 2003, appears to
include signatures by Zuckerberg and Ceglia and a handwritten
addition to the contract’s terms.  “The court-ordered forensic testing has uncovered the
authentic contract between Mark Zuckerberg and StreetFax that
Ceglia attempted to conceal,” Facebook said in its filing.
“This smoking-gun evidence confirms what defendants have said
all along: the purported contract attached to the complaint is
an outright fabrication.”  If the contract included in yesterday’s Facebook filing
proves to be genuine, it would doom Ceglia’s claim to part-
ownership of the world’s biggest social networking site.
Facebook is valued at $69.2 billion, according to
Sharespost.com, an online marketplace for shares of privately
held companies.  Ownership Claim  Ceglia claims, in his suit filed last year, that Zuckerberg
agreed to give him a share of Facebook in exchange for $1,000 in
startup money.  “This ‘image’ they claim is the original is forged and we
will prove it has no authenticating properties whatsoever,”
Ceglia said in an e-mail message sent from Ireland, where he is
currently living.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Leslie Foschio last month ordered
Ceglia to let Facebook run forensic tests on his computers, hard
drives and electronic storage media, as well as on the contract
and the e-mails he says support his claim.  In court papers Aug. 5,  Palo Alto , California-based
Facebook said its inspection, by the computer forensics firm
Stroz Friedberg LLC, had turned up “smoking gun” evidence of
fraud.  Facebook said Stroz Friedberg also found evidence that
Ceglia is concealing six removable  storage devices  containing
documents with names that include “Zuckerberg Contract
page1.tif” and folder named “Facebook Files.”  Facebook Allegation  “It is very likely that Ceglia used these removable
devices to manipulate and store documents, including the
purported ‘Facebook contract,’ in the belief that this evidence
would not be discovered -- or that the devices could easily be
discarded if necessary, as Ceglia has now apparently done,”
Facebook said in the court filing.  Foschio has scheduled a hearing in the case Aug. 17.  The case is Ceglia v. Zuckerberg, 1:10-cv-00569, U.S.
District Court, Western District of  New York  (Buffalo).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  