-- 
Fannie and Freddie Would Survive in New Form Under Obama Plan

-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 
2011-08-16T17:05:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/fannie-and-freddie-would-survive-in-new-form-under-obama-plan.html
The Obama Administration is working
on a proposal to maintain a large government role in mortgage
finance, effectively preserving most of the functions of Fannie
Mae and  Freddie Mac , according to a person with direct knowledge
of the effort.  The primary goal is to encourage reliable sources of
residential lending by continuing an 80-year-old practice of
government guarantees on most home loans. At the same time, the
administration wants to reduce government’s dominance in the
system by imposing limits on Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or their
successors.  In February, U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner 
and Housing and Urban Development Secretary Shaun Donovan
presented Congress with three options for weaning the almost $11
trillion mortgage market from its dependence on government.  There is no timeline for delivering the new proposal, which
is based on one of the options in the February report, according
to the person, who did not want to be identified because the
work is in an early stage.  The administration also is exploring steps it can take in
the interim without legislation to shrink the companies’ role in
the market, the person said.  White House spokesman Matt Vogel said President  Barack Obama  has made no decision to move forward with a particular
plan.  ‘Winding Down’  “We remain committed to winding down Fannie and Freddie,
though such significant measures would need to be done gradually
and with care,” Vogel said. “We believe that it is essential
to bring private capital back to the center of a reformed
housing system.”  The administration has been working to develop scenarios
under all three options, Vogel said. “All three options remain
under active consideration and we are deepening our analysis
around how each would potentially be implemented.”  Washington-based  Fannie Mae  and its smaller rival, Freddie
Mac in McLean,  Virginia , were chartered by Congress to boost the
availability of home loans. For a fee, the companies buy and
guarantee home loans which they then bundle and sell.  Government’s implied guarantee of the mortgage-backed bonds
helped create investor demand. Today the companies own or
guarantee more than half of U.S. home loans.  A credit crisis triggered by subprime mortgage lending
drove the two companies to near collapse in 2008. That year,
they were seized by the government and have drawn more than $170
billion in aid to remain solvent.  Government Role  Since then, the administration and Congress have been
exploring ways to rebuild the market. Policy makers disagree on
how big a role government should play in a new system.  The option being explored by the administration is based on
the proposal in the February report that retained the largest
government role and hews closest to the current system.  It would allow private companies to buy, bundle and sell
loans that meet certain criteria, much like Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac do now, and provide government-backed “catastrophic
reinsurance” on the securities should they fail. The government
would charge a fee for the insurance, which would be used to
offset any losses to taxpayers and in theory, would prevent
future bailouts.  The government reinsurance would kick in only after the
private companies have taken the bulk of the losses, according
to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 