-- 
Fire Hoses for $39,000 Bring Fame to Theaster Gates: Hot Art

-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 
2011-08-16T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/fire-hose-art-for-39-000-brings-fame-to-hot-urban-recycler-theaster-gates.html
Theaster Gates , 37, is an artist,
urban planner, ceramist, performer and lecturer at the
 University of Chicago .  Take that,  James Franco .  Less than two years after he burst onto the mainstream art
scene, Gates’s works sell for as much as $50,000. They are in
the collections of the  Walker Art Center  in  Minneapolis  and the
Brooklyn Museum in  New York .  He’ll be the official artist of  the Armory Show  in New York
in 2012.  Last week, Gates was the toast of Aspen, where a dozen of
the world’s top art collectors enjoy an active social calendar
anchored by the Aspen Art Museum and  Anderson Ranch Arts Center .  “If you are a contemporary art collector in Aspen this
August, it’s going to be pretty hard avoiding hearing about
Theaster Gates,” said Dennis Scholl, a part-time Aspen resident
who recently bought two pieces by Gates. “He’s on the list of
every contemporary collector right now.”  On Aug. 12, 200 people filled  Anderson Ranch ’s performance
space to capacity to hear Gates and two members of his Black
Monks of Mississippi music ensemble croon about a 19th-century
potter they call “Dave the Slave.”  Expensive Fire Hose  The following day, Gates’s sculpture, featuring an old fire
hose, fetched $39,000, surging past its $20,000 estimate and
becoming the priciest piece sold at the art center’s charity
auction.  “Doing a performance in Aspen takes an artist from zero to
60,” said Lowell Pettit of  Pettit Art Partners , a  New York- 
based art advisory firm. “Within the 5-mile radius, you have a
deeper collector concentration than anywhere else in the
world.”  Until last year, Gates didn’t have the gallery
representation or make much sellable art. In  Chicago , his
hometown, Gates was known as a performance artist and founder of
the  Dorchester Project , which buys abandoned houses in the
rundown South Side area and converts them into affordable
housing for artists.  “Everyone knew about him and was waiting for him to start
making work,” said Kavi Gupta, whose Chicago- and Berlin-based
gallery began working with Gates in 2010, the year he was
included in the  Whitney Biennial  and began turning the gutted
material from the Dorchester Project into art that reflects on
black history and social inequality.  His first solo show at the  Kavi Gupta Gallery , “An Epitaph
for Civil Rights and Other Domesticated Structures,” sold out
before its opening in April, with prices ranging from $20,000 to
$50,000.  Most pieces featured decommissioned fire hoses, a reference
to the police’s hosing of civil-rights demonstrators in
Birmingham,  Alabama , in 1963. The coiling hoses were framed by
old moldings, mantle pieces and floor boards, and had titles
like “In Event of Race Riot.”  “They are beautiful, beautiful objects, almost abstract,”
said Scholl. “Then you read the title and you get a little
shiver.”  (Katya Kazakina is a reporter for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  To contact the reporter of this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 