-- 
Fitch Affirms U.S. AAA Rating, Says Outlook Stable on Diversified Economy

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-08-16T17:01:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/fitch-affirms-u-s-aaa-credit-rating.html
Fitch Ratings  affirmed its AAA
credit rating for the U.S. and said the outlook is stable,
citing the nation’s central role in the global financial system
and the flexible, diverse economy.  Fitch had put the rating under review after lawmakers
reached a compromise Aug. 2 on a debt-limit agreement that
prevented a U.S. default.  Standard & Poor’s  on Aug. 5 cut its
U.S. credit rating to AA+ from AAA, saying lawmakers failed to
cut spending enough to reduce record deficits. Moody’s Investors
Service affirmed its top U.S. ranking last week.  Since S&P, the New York-based subsidiary of McGraw-Hill
Cos., downgraded the U.S., the yield on the 10-year Treasury
note, a benchmark for everything from home mortgages to  car
loans , has declined to as low as 2.03 percent from a high this
year of 3.77 percent. Treasuries are on pace in August for the
biggest monthly gain since December 2008.  Interest rates  on
American bonds are lower today than on most of the countries
with AAA ratings by S&P and the Treasury recently financed its
outstanding debt at the lowest cost ever.  The U.S. may be placed on negative outlook, indicating more
than a 50 percent probability that the nation will be downgraded
in the next two years, should weaker than estimated economic
growth or a failure by a congressional committee to enact $1.2
trillion in budget cuts spur projected debt levels to rise more
than estimated, Fitch said today in a statement. A one-step
downgrade is “less likely.” Lawmakers’ agreed on Aug. 2 put in
place a plan to enforce $2.4 trillion in spending reductions
over the next 10 years.  Marketable Debt  “The Fitch reassessment of waiting to see what the
committee comes up with is prudent and also appropriate given
the mandate of the” committee, said Christian Cooper, head of
U.S. dollar derivatives trading in  New York  at Jefferies Group
Inc., which as one of the 20 primary dealers is obligated to bid
in Treasury sales. “The concern that the market has is, will
the super committee members be able to put what is still a very
recent partisan fight aside and come to some agreement?”  Marketable  U.S. government debt  outstanding has risen to
$9.4 trillion from $4.34 trillion in mid-2007 as the government
borrowed to bail out the nation’s banking system and lift the
economy out of recession. The U.S. went from budget surpluses
averaging $139.7 billion from 1998 through 2001 to a deficit of
$1.29 trillion last year, Bloomberg data show. That hasn’t
raised the country’s borrowing costs. Average debt yields of 1.5
percent in July compare with 6.54 percent in 2000.  ‘Fiscal Challenges’  The Aug. 2 law reduces the deficit by a minimum of $4.1
trillion in the coming decade, such that the fully implemented
plan “would bring U.S. public finances materially closer to a
sustainable path,” Fitch said.  The ratings firm forecasts that publicly-owned federal debt
will stabilize at 85 percent of gross domestic product and gross
government debt at 105 percent, higher than any other AAA ranked
sovereign entity and “at the limit” of debt that would be
“consistent” with a top credit grade.  “The Treasury Department continues to believe that
 Treasury securities  are AAA investments,” Treasury spokesman
Anthony Coley said today in an e-mail. “Today’s report
underscores the importance of Congress taking additional actions
to address our long-term fiscal challenges.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  