-- 
Forest Labs CFO Faults Icahn’s Slate

-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 
2011-08-16T21:14:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/forest-labs-cfo-says-icahn-slate-lacks-needed-experience.html
The four nominees billionaire
investor  Carl Icahn  has proposed for  Forest Laboratories Inc. (FRX) ’s
board are conflicted and lack necessary industry experience,
said Frank Perier, the drugmaker’s chief financial officer.  “If you look at everyone on our board, they’ve had
meaningful, real-life business or medical-practice experience,”
Perier said today in a telephone interview. Icahn’s nominees
have “no true hands-on business experience.”  Alex Denner, senior managing director at  Icahn Enterprises
LP (IEP)  and a nominee, said Perier’s assertion is “factually
incorrect.”  “For instance, does running a major biotech company not
count as business experience?” Denner said in a telephone
interview today, citing his time running ImClone Systems Inc. in
2007. “We would be very happy to have their four directors and
our four get on a conference call so all shareholders can hear
from each of them.”  Forest gained 82 cents, or 2.4 percent, to $35.31 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
have increased 10 percent this year.  Perier also said Denner and another Icahn nominee, Richard Mulligan, have conflicts of interest because they sit on the
boards of  Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB)  and  Amylin Pharmaceuticals Inc. (AMLN) ,
companies that compete with New York-based Forest. The other two
nominees are Eric Ende and Lucian Bebchuk.  Business Model  “Our entire business model is built upon licensing and
acquiring drugs at various levels of development,” Perier said.
“All of these potential products are reviewed with the board.
We’re uncomfortable having that level of information shared with
a conflicting company.”  Icahn has said in a regulatory filing this month that
Denner and Mulligan “have no conflict to serve on Forest Labs’
board,” and “throughout the health-care industry, directors
serve on multiple boards.”  The investor has targeted at least six companies in the
pharmaceutical industry in the last four years, including
Weston, Massachusetts-based Biogen, ImClone and Genzyme Corp.,
pushing to restructure, shake up management and orchestrate
sales. ImClone was sold in 2008 to Eli Lilly & Co. for $6.5
billion. Paris-based Sanofi bought Genzyme in February for $20.1
billion.  At Forest, Icahn has criticized the company’s spending and
said its “scattered efforts across therapeutic areas may not
fill” a revenue gap from patent expirations in the next few
years on the company’s top sellers, the antidepressant Lexapro
and the Alzheimer’s medicine Namenda.  Sharper Focus  If Icahn wins board representation, his directors would
look for ways to sharpen the company’s focus on medicines
prescribed by primary-care physicians, Denner said. He cited the
obstetrics medicine Cervidil and pain-management drug Combunox
as areas Forest should exit. Combunox is a controlled substance
that requires additional oversight and has increased regulatory
costs, he said.  Perier today said both medicines are “legacy products”
with annual revenue of $30 million to $40 million, and require
no sales or marketing support from the company.  “If that’s where you’re going to get your synergies from,
I think it gives you the order of magnitude of the level of
actual understanding of our business,” Perier said.  Forest has proposed a 10-member board slate including three
new directors. Shareholders are set to decide at the company’s
annual meeting on Aug. 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 