-- 
Fraga-Like Rates Reversal Anticipated to Avoid 2008 Redux: Brazil Credit

-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 
2011-08-16T13:27:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/fraga-like-rates-reversal-anticipated-to-avoid-2008-redux-brazil-credit.html
Traders are betting the Brazilian
central bank will lower borrowing costs as soon as October in
the fastest reversal of monetary policy in 10 years to protect
 Latin America ’s biggest economy from the global slowdown.  The yield on interest-rate futures contracts due in October
fell six basis points in the past month to 12.37 percent,
suggesting investors expect policy makers to cut the benchmark
rate a quarter-percentage point from 12.5 percent by the meeting
that month after raising it in August.  Central bankers in Turkey and  Serbia  have lowered borrowing
costs this month as concern mounts that the European and U.S.
debt crises are driving the global economy into recession.
Brazilian traders expect central bank President Alexandre Tombini will respond faster than his predecessor,  Henrique Meirelles , did during the global financial crisis. Meirelles
raised the Selic five days before  Lehman Brothers  Holdings Inc.
collapsed in September 2008 and waited four months to cut it.  “We see signs that the reaction this time will be
different than in 2008,” Marcelo Salomon, chief economist for
Brazil at Barclays Plc, said in a telephone interview in New
York. “The tool that is going to be used to prevent a bigger
slowdown will be interest rates.”  The last time Brazil changed course faster was 2001, when
policy makers led by bank President Arminio Fraga raised the
overnight rate in March after cutting it in January. In 1999,
Fraga, a former hedge fund manager for billionaire  George Soros ,
reversed direction even quicker, cutting the rate to 42 percent
on March 24 after boosting it three weeks earlier to stem the
real’s devaluation.  Commodities Slump  The deepening global slump is driving down commodities and
curbing inflation expectations in  Brazil , prompting traders to
abandon calls for more rate increases.  As recently as July 15, futures showed the central bank
would raise borrowing costs for the sixth time this year on Aug.
31 to bring annual inflation down from a six-year high. Tombini,
who served as a director on the bank’s board for five years
before taking the top spot in January, has raised the Selic 175
basis points in 2011.  The yield on the Brazilian government’s benchmark bonds due
in 2021 fell 40 basis points in the past month to 12.15 percent
at 8.52 a.m. New York time, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The  Federal Reserve  pledged last week to keep the benchmark
U.S. interest rate near zero until at least mid-2013 because
growth in the world’s biggest economy is “considerably slower”
than anticipated.  ‘Big Wave’  Hypermarcas SA (HYPE3) , a consumer products company, expects a
“big wave” of deceleration in the Brazilian economy in the
second half, which will hit other industries as a “tsunami,”
Chief Executive Officer Claudio Bergamo said on a conference
call with analysts yesterday. The economy will grow 3.9 percent
this year, according to the median forecast in an Aug. 12
central bank survey of about 100 economists, down from 7.5
percent last year, the fastest pace in more than two decades.  “If we continue on this trajectory of falling world
growth, we could have a rate cut this year,” Carlos Kawall,
chief economist at Banco J. Safra SA, said in a telephone
interview from  Sao Paulo . “The chances of a cut are rising.”  Brazil’s gross domestic product shrank 4.2 percent in the
fourth quarter of 2008 in the wake of the collapse of Lehman
Brothers, its deepest contraction on record. The economy
contracted 1.9 percent in the first quarter of 2009.  Yield Spread  Brazil is likely to rely on lowering  interest rates  to
stimulate growth rather than boosting  government spending , which
would drive up debt levels, Barclays’s Salomon said. President
 Dilma Rousseff  told her top allies in Congress last week that
she will oppose any measures to increase expenditures this year
because it would send the wrong signal to investors, said a
government official who declined to be identified because the
talks were private.  The central bank’s press office declined to comment in
response to an e-mailed question.  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell 2 basis points to 198,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The cost of protecting Brazilian bonds against default for
five years fell 10 basis points yesterday to 140, according to
data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a government
or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  ‘High Level’  Inflation remains too high to give the central bank room to
cut interest rates this year, said Maristella Ansanelli, chief
economist at Sao Paulo-based Banco Fibra SA. Consumer prices
rose 6.9 percent in the 12 months through July, the fastest pace
since 2005. Tombini last week repeated a pledge to bring
inflation down to the mid-point of the government’s 4.5 percent
target range by next year, a goal Ansanelli says he’s unlikely
to meet.  “Domestic demand is sustaining services inflation at a
very high level,” Ansanelli said in a telephone interview. The
drop in “commodities might help, but it’s not enough,” she
said.  Commodity prices tumbled 4.8 percent this month, according
to the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index.  Brazil’s biggest exports are  iron ore , crude, soy, sugar
and coffee, according to trade ministry figures. Food prices
have a 23 percent weighting on the benchmark inflation index,
while transport costs, which include fuel, have a 19 percent
weighting.  ‘Deflationary Forces’  Economists covering the Brazilian economy cut their 2011
and 2012 inflation forecasts for a second straight week in the
most recent central bank survey. Brazilian consumer prices will
rise 5.23 percent next year, according to the median forecast in
the  survey . The estimate is down from 5.27 percent on Aug. 5 and
5.3 percent on July 29.  “There are significant deflationary forces at play that
suggest emerging-market central banks are now on hold, and could
cut rates if necessary,” HSBC Holdings Plc. analysts, including
New York-based head of emerging-market research Pablo Goldberg,
said in a report yesterday. “Economic activity is decelerating
in most places.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in  New York  at 
 Papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  