-- 
Franc Rises, Halts Three-Day Slide Versus Euro, as European Growth Slows

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-08-16T13:45:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/franc-rises-halts-three-day-slide-versus-euro-as-european-growth-slows.html
The franc strengthened, snapping a
three-day slump against the euro, as reports showing growth
slowed across  Europe  last quarter drove investors to the
perceived safety of the Swiss currency.  The franc, a traditional refuge from financial turmoil,
climbed versus all except one of its 16 major peers tracked by
Bloomberg after German data showed Europe’s biggest economy
almost stalled in the second quarter. It gained for the first
time in five days against the dollar even as policy makers
debate how to counter the currency’s strength. The franc pared
its advance after a U.S. report showed industrial production
climbed by the most this year in July.  “On days when risk is off it will go up,” said  Adam Cole ,
global head of currency strategy in  London  at Royal Bank of
Canada, the nation’s largest lender. “That is something which
hasn’t changed on the back of what is thus far just rhetoric”
from the  Swiss National Bank , he said.  The franc strengthened 0.3 percent to 1.12926 per euro as
of 2:29 p.m. in London, after earlier rising as much as 1.5
percent. The Swiss currency gained 0.3 percent to 78.62 centimes
per dollar, after tumbling 8.1 percent during the past three
days, the biggest drop since the euro was introduced in 1999.  The euro weakened and the Stoxx Europe 600 Index fell after
the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said German gross
domestic product, adjusted for seasonal effects, rose 0.1
percent from the first quarter. Economists had forecast growth
of 0.5 percent, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  Growth in the 17-nation euro area slowed to 0.2 percent in
the second quarter, also worse than economists forecast and the
least in two years.  U.S. Production  U.S. industrial production increased 0.9 percent after a
revised 0.4 percent gain in June that was more the previously
estimated, figures from the  Federal Reserve  showed today.  The Swiss central bank may introduce a currency peg with a
lower limit of slightly above 1.10 against the euro before
gradually increasing it, SonntagsZeitung reported on Aug. 14,
citing people familiar with the situation. Policy makers are
battling to curb gains that have seen the franc surge 14 percent
this year against a basket of nine developed-market peers,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes.  Swiss National Bank Vice President Thomas Jordan said they
are assessing “a whole range of options,” according to an
interview with Weltwoche published on Aug. 11.  Gains in the franc are “unlikely to reverse quickly,”
according to strategists at BNP Paribas SA. The bank is
“sceptical” the SNB will peg it to the euro.  “After suggestions that a plan of action might be adopted
as early as tomorrow, euro-franc could collapse if the markets
are disappointed,” strategists led by Ray Attrill, head of
currency strategy in  New York , wrote in an e-mailed note today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net . 