-- 
Goldman, FrontPoint, A&P, TCW, Facebook, BofA in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-08-16T11:31:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/frontpoint-optionable-carbon-fraud-tcw-deutsche-post-in-court-news.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  was sued by
Allstate Insurance Co. over the sale of more than $100 million
worth of residential mortgage-backed securities that the insurer
claims the bank itself called “junk” and “lemons.”  Allstate asked for damages including the lost market value
of the securities, plus principal and interest payments in the
complaint filed yesterday in New York state Supreme Court in
Manhattan.  The insurer, based in Northbrook, Illinois, has filed
similar suits against  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  over $700 million of
mortgage-backed securities the bank sold the insurer;  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  units for more than $231 million of the
securities; Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit over some
$167 million;  Citigroup Inc. (C) , over more than $200 million; and
Deutsche Bank AG, over about $185 million. Allstate said the
banks misrepresented underwriting standards, owner occupancy
data and loan-to-value ratios.  Goldman Sachs knew these types of securities were “junk,”
“dogs,” “crap” and “lemons,” according to yesterday’s
suit, which claims the words are Goldman Sachs’s own, recently
revealed in governmental investigations, to describe them.  Michael Duvally, a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, declined to
comment on the suit.  Allstate purchased more than $123 million of the securities
from April 2006 to March 2007 in reliance on Goldman Sachs’s
misrepresentations and omissions, according to the complaint.  The case is Allstate Insurance Co. v. Goldman Sachs & Co.,
652273/2011, New York state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Ex-FrontPoint Manager Skowron Pleads Guilty in Insider Case  Ex-FrontPoint Partners LLC hedge fund manager Joseph F.
“Chip” Skowron pleaded guilty in a U.S.  insider-trading  case.  Skowron, a medical doctor, pleaded guilty to one count of
conspiring to commit  securities fraud  and to obstruct a
Securities and Exchange Commission investigation. He was accused
of trading on inside information about Human Genome Science Inc.
and then lying to investigators.  “I knew my actions were wrong and I deeply regret my
participation in these activities,” Skowron told U.S. District
Judge  Denise Cote  in Manhattan yesterday. Skowron faces as much
as five years in prison when sentenced Nov. 18.  The government claimed that Skowron obtained nonpublic
information from Yves Benhamou, an expert in hepatitis drugs and
a former adviser for Human Genome Sciences. The tips, concerning
hepatitis C drug trials, let Greenwich, Connecticut-based
FrontPoint avoid more than $30 million in losses, the U.S. said.
Benhamou has pleaded guilty.  Benhamou acted as a paid consultant to hedge funds while
working as an adviser to HGSI and serving on its steering
committee for trials of Albuferon, a hepatitis treatment, the
U.S. said. Prosecutors claimed Skowron gave Benhamou more than
$14,600 in cash and paid for hotel rooms and expenses.  The guilty plea is the latest in a nationwide federal
investigation into insider trading at hedge funds.  “Dr. Skowron lied to and misled FrontPoint’s internal
compliance team, the external counsel hired to independently
investigate his actions, and the federal government,”
FrontPoint said in a statement yesterday. “FrontPoint was never
accused of any wrongdoing and has fully resolved this matter
with the government.”  In a plea agreement, prosecutors and lawyers for Skowron
agreed that federal sentencing guidelines would call for him to
serve 87 to 108 months in prison. Conspiracy carries a top
sentence of 60 months, or five years.  In addition, Skowron faces the possibility of three years
supervised release and a fine, according to Cote. As part of the
plea agreement he agreed to forfeit $5 million to the
government.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Skowron, 11-MAG-00997; the
civil case is Securities and Exchange Commission vs. Benhamou,
10-cv-8266, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Former Ahold Executive Kaiser Pleads Guilty in Fraud Case  The ex-marketing chief of a former U.S. unit of Dutch
grocer Royal Ahold NV pleaded guilty to conspiracy 13 months
after his previous conviction for overstating earnings was
overturned.  Former U.S. Foodservice Inc. executive Mark Kaiser, 54,
admitted yesterday in Manhattan federal court to participating
in an $800 million securities fraud. At his sentencing Dec. 7,
he could receive as much as five years in prison.  Prosecutors alleged Kaiser made fraudulent representations
about U.S. Foodservice’s financial condition in a bid to burnish
his resume for a promotion at the Columbia, Maryland-based unit.
He was convicted in 2006 of helping the subsidiary inflate
profits from 2000 to 2003 by wrongly recording promotional
rebates as income and sentenced to seven years in prison.  In July 2010, the U.S. Court of Appeals in New York threw
out his convictions for securities fraud, conspiracy and four
counts of making false filings with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. The appeals court said he was entitled to a
new trial because the lower court judge erred by admitting into
evidence the statement of the unit’s general counsel.  Royal Ahold, based in Amsterdam, sold U.S. Foodservice in
2007 to Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. and Clayton Dubilier &
Rice Inc. for $7.1 billion.  The case is U.S. v. Kaiser, 04-cr-733, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Ex-Optionable Chief Admits to Scheme to Hide Bank Losses  Former  Optionable Inc. (OPBL)  Chief Executive Officer Kevin
Cassidy pleaded guilty to his role in a scheme to hide millions
of dollars in losses at the  Bank of Montreal. (BMO)   Cassidy, 52, pleaded guilty yesterday in Manhattan federal
court to one count of conspiracy to commit wire fraud. The judge
set a Dec. 15 sentencing date.  The case stems from C$680 million ($690.5 million) of
pretax commodity-trading losses the bank announced in April
2007. Those losses grew to C$853 million for the fiscal year,
paring profit by C$440 million. Cassidy was charged with fraud
in 2008 for helping a former trader at the bank conceal the
losses.  Cassidy, an ex- convict  who hid his criminal record, helped
former trader David Lee hide commodity losses from the bank to
win business for Optionable, a brokerage firm focusing on energy
derivatives, according to prosecutors.  Cassidy was sentenced to 30 months in prison for credit-card
fraud in 1997 and six months for income- tax evasion  in 1993,
court records show.  The case is U.S. v. Cassidy, 08-CR-1101, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  A&P Reaches Settlement With OfficeMax Over Executive Hires  Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea Co. (GAPTQ)  settled  OfficeMax Inc. (OMX) ’s
lawsuit accusing the bankrupt supermarket operator of hiring
away OfficeMax executives.  The agreement ends litigation between the companies and
allows A&P to focus on its restructuring, Montvale, New Jersey-
based A&P said in an Aug. 12 bankruptcy court filing. Terms of
the settlement are confidential.  OfficeMax, based in Naperville, Illinois, sued A&P, its
Chief Executive Officer Sam Martin and two other executives last
year. The office-supply company said Martin left to join A&P and
improperly recruited the other two executives in violation of
agreements with OfficeMax.  The bankruptcy case is  Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea Co. (GAP) 
Inc., 10-24549, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New
York (White Plains).  British Man Confesses in German Carbon-Trading Tax-Fraud Trial  A British national confessed he was one in a chain of
carbon-emission trading company managers who cost Germany about
230 million euros ($332 million) in lost tax revenue.  The 27-year-old man, whose full name can’t be used under
German law, is one of six suspects in a trial that began
yesterday in Frankfurt on claims they took advantage of German
valued-added tax rules in place until June 2010. Like other
suspects, he ran a trading company and sold certificates to
 Deutsche Bank AG. (DBK)   “It was clear that, with the under-market prices we were
trading at, someone in the line before me must have evaded the
19 percent of value-added tax and the trading chain was part of
the arrangement,” he told the court. “I thought at the time
that my actions were only morally wrong. I know now that they
are also a form of criminal tax evasion.”  The case is part of the biggest crackdown on emissions-
related tax fraud since Europe began its cap-and-trade system in
2005. German authorities enlisted assistance from 10 countries
last year and froze 100 million euros in funds. Frankfurt
prosecutors estimate German tax authorities lost a total of 850
million euros and are investigating a total of 170 people. The
six on trial yesterday were indicted first because they are in
custody.  Presiding Judge Martin Bach disclosed the court had told
the defendants in April that they may get a reduced sentence if
they confessed. A sentence of about seven years in prison is
likely for the man who confessed, Bach said.  The court has scheduled more than 40 additional trial days
through March. The trial will resume on Aug. 22 when a second
defendant is scheduled to address the court on the allegations.  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  DoubleLine’s Gundlach Says He Offered to Buy TCW in 2009  DoubleLine Capital LP’s  Jeffrey Gundlach  testified that in
September 2009 he offered to buy TCW Group Inc., the asset-
management company that fired him three months later.  Gundlach, who started DoubleLine weeks after TCW fired him
in December 2009, told a Los Angeles jury yesterday that he
offered about $350 million for 51 percent of the firm. TCW
claims that Gundlach and three other former TCW employees stole
its trade secrets to open a rival business. Gundlach says TCW
fired him to avoid paying hundreds of millions of dollars in
fees.  TCW, the Los Angeles-based unit of  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA,
sued Gundlach, 51, in January 2010, a month after more than half
of TCW’s fixed-income professionals had joined his new firm. TCW
seeks $375 million in damages, claiming Gundlach stole its trade
secrets, including client portfolio data, to start DoubleLine.  Gundlach, who had worked at TCW for 25 years and who was
named Morningstar’s Fixed Income Manager of the Year in 2006,
countersued, saying that TCW fired him to avoid having to pay
management and performance fees for the distressed-asset funds
his group managed and that went “through the roof.” Gundlach
seeks about $500 million.  TCW argues that Gundlach wouldn’t have been able to get
DoubleLine started so quickly if he hadn’t had access to TCW
trade secrets and confidential information.  Gundlach testified that he offered to buy the majority
stake in TCW at a Sept. 3, 2009, meeting with the firm’s chief
executive officer, Marc Stern, when he thought Stern was about
to fire him.      The case is Trust Co. of the West v. Gundlach,
BC429385, California Superior Court, Los Angeles County.  For more, click here.  Deutsche Post Appeals Court Ruling on E-Postbrief Advertising  Deutsche Post AG (DPW) , the world’s biggest carrier of air and
sea freight by volume, is appealing a court decision forbidding
the marketing of its E-Postbrief electronic-message service as
being as secure as normal mail.  The E-Postbrief isn’t allowed to be advertised as “as safe
and reliable as a letter” or as having “the advantages of the
classic letter on the Internet” because the service doesn’t
allow senders to sign a legally binding physical document,
according to a June 30 ruling by the regional court in Deutsche
Post’s headquarters city of Bonn. The  case  was brought by
Germany’s VZBV consumer-rights association.  Deutsche Post has already filed an appeal to the Higher
Regional Court in Cologne, Matthias Nordmeyer, a spokesman at
the court in Bonn, said yesterday. The postal service contends
in the appeal that the E-Postbrief has contractual validity in
certain cases that should allow the advertising to continue,
Stefan Hess, a spokesman for Deutsche Post, said in a phone
interview.  “There have always been certain contracts, those which
need a signature on paper, which aren’t legally binding if
communicated via E-Post,” Hess said. “But there are also
others, such as bills of sale, which can be, and we don’t
therefore think that these are misleading advertising slogans.”  Oscar Mayer Wieners Battle Ball Park Franks in Hot Dog Fight  Sara Lee Corp. (SLE) , the maker of Ball Park-brand frankfurters,
began its trial against Oscar Mayer Wiener-making regional rival
 Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT)  over which company’s advertisements are
truthful.  Kraft, the world’s second-biggest food company, stands
accused of deceiving consumers about the ingredients in franks
it says are 100 percent beef and of lying about taste-test
results. Northfield, Illinois-based Kraft countersued, claiming
Downers Grove, Illinois-based Sara Lee is lying about its claim
to award-winning taste for its products.  The trial over encased meats began yesterday midway between
each company’s headquarters at the federal courthouse in
Chicago, where the common hot dog is served on a poppy seed bun
topped with yellow mustard, green relish, diced tomatoes,
chopped onions, sport peppers and a quarter of a pickle.  “Let the wiener wars begin,” U.S. Magistrate Judge Morton
Denlow said as the proceeding started.  Consumers in the U.S. bought more than $1.6 billion worth
of hot dogs last year, eating about 7 billion of them from the
federal holidays of Memorial Day in late May to Labor Day at the
beginning of September, according to statistics compiled by the
 National Hot Dog & Sausage Council , a Washington-based meat
industry advocacy group.  Sara Lee, which also produces desserts, breads, coffees and
luncheon meats, sued Kraft in 2009, alleging it violated
Illinois laws prohibiting deceptive trade practices. Sara Lee,
challenging the composition of Oscar Mayer 100 percent jumbo
beef franks, seeks unspecified money damages in the trial.  The hot dogs, according to Sara Lee’s complaint, contain
water, salt, corn syrup, paprika, dried garlic, spices and other
ingredients.  “The product is neither 100 percent, nor pure beef,”
according to Sara Lee’s complaint, which also accuses Kraft of
lying about taste-test results.  Kraft engaged in a “massive and unprecedented” campaign
to mislead consumers, Sara Lee lawyer Richard Leighton told
Denlow yesterday. He said the campaign was driven by Kraft’s
fear that Ball Park sales would eclipse those of Oscar Mayer.  Kraft, the maker of Nabisco cookies, A-1 steak sauce, Cool
Whip dessert toppings and Velveeta processed cheese, accused
Sara Lee of violating the state’s deceptive-trade laws by
claiming its Ball Park Angus Beef Franks won prizes they didn’t
win.  “Sara Lee did not possess competent and reliable evidence
that the claims were true,” Kraft said in its complaint. Kraft
also seeks unspecified money damages.  The case is Sara Lee Corp. v. Kraft Foods Inc., 09-cv-
03039, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Illinois
(Chicago).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Facebook Says ‘Authentic’ Ceglia Contract Proves Claims Phony  Facebook Inc. says its discovery of an “authentic
contract” between its chief executive officer, Mark Zuckerberg,
and  Paul Ceglia  shows the western New York man’s claims to part-
ownership of the company are phony.  The document, which doesn’t mention Facebook, was found on
Ceglia’s computer, embedded in electronic data from 2004,
according to papers filed by Facebook yesterday in federal court
in Buffalo, New York. It refers only to StreetFax, a company
Ceglia was trying to start at the time.  Facebook attached a blurry image of the contract to its
court papers. The document, dated April 28, 2003, appears to
include signatures by Zuckerberg and Ceglia and a handwritten
addition to the contract’s terms.  “The court-ordered forensic testing has uncovered the
authentic contract between Mark Zuckerberg and StreetFax that
Ceglia attempted to conceal,” Facebook said in its filing.
“This smoking-gun evidence confirms what defendants have said
all along: the purported contract attached to the complaint is
an outright fabrication.”  If the contract included in yesterday’s Facebook filing
proves to be genuine, it would doom Ceglia’s claim to part-
ownership of the world’s biggest social-networking site.
Facebook is valued at $69.2 billion, according to
Sharespost.com, an online marketplace for shares of privately
held companies.  Ceglia claims, in his suit filed last year, that Zuckerberg
agreed to give him a share of Facebook in exchange for $1,000 in
start-up money.  Ceglia’s lawyer, Jeffrey Lake, didn’t return a phone
message yesterday seeking comment on the Facebook filing.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Leslie Foschio last month ordered
Ceglia to let Facebook run forensic tests on his computers, hard
drives and electronic storage media, as well as on the contract
and the e-mails he says support his claim. In court papers Aug.
5, Palo Alto, California-based Facebook said its inspection, by
the computer forensics firm Stroz Friedberg LLC, had turned up
“smoking gun” evidence of fraud.  The case is Ceglia v. Zuckerberg, 1:10-cv-00569, U.S.
District Court, Western District of New York (Buffalo).  BofA, Other Banks Can Resume N.J. Mortgage Servicing  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , JPMorgan Chase & Co. and two other
mortgage lenders and loan servicers received approval from a  New
Jersey  judge to resume uncontested foreclosures in the state.  Citigroup Inc.’s mortgage unit and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  also
won permission in an order yesterday by Superior Court Judge
Mary Jacobson in Trenton, New Jersey. Each had to show their
processes and procedures to ensure that information in
uncontested foreclosures is based on a personal review of
records. The judge ordered the four lenders to undergo
monitoring.  The lenders were among six whose practices came under
scrutiny Dec. 20, when New Jersey Supreme Court Chief Justice
Stuart Rabner said they were implicated in “robo-signing,” in
which foreclosure documents were automatically signed without
personal verification of the contents.  For each bank, Jacobson signed an order outlining a series
of conditions, including: Has the bank “established specific
procedures for staff to ensure that the information set forth in
affidavits/certifications submitted in foreclosure proceedings
is based on a personal review of business records?”  The orders didn’t affect two other banks subject to the
review, Ally Financial Inc. and OneWest Bank.  In announcing the review last year, Rabner said New Jersey
was the first U.S. state to take such an action. The state’s
courts received 21,752 new foreclosures in 2006 and 65,222 in
2010 through late December. Only 6 percent of cases were
contested last year, meaning 94 percent lacked “any meaningful
adversarial proceeding,” according to a court order at the
time.  Attorneys general from all 50 states in October started
probing mortgage servicers after revelations that they may have
acted illegally in having employees sign affidavits that they
didn’t review. State and federal officials are negotiating a
settlement with the five largest mortgage servicers.  The case is In the Matter of Residential Mortgage
Foreclosure Pleading and Document Irregularities, Superior Court
of New Jersey, Chancery Division-General Equity Part, F-59553-
10, Mercer County (Trenton).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Court News  Wisconsin Prosecutor Probes Pre-Labor Ruling Judge Assault  The district attorney of Wisconsin’s Sauk County will probe
the alleged assault of one state supreme court justice by
another on the day before the panel upheld a law restricting
collective bargaining.  The incident allegedly took place June 13 at the court in
Madison, the seat of Dane County. The next day, it reinstated
the legislation, which applies to state employees.  Dane County District Attorney Ismael Ozanne, who filed the
suit that led to the ruling, had sought the appointment of a
special prosecutor to investigate the incident involving
Justices David Prosser and Ann Walsh Bradley. Bradley  accused 
Prosser of putting her in a chokehold, a claim Prosser denied,
according to the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel.  Ozanne cited a report from the office of Sheriff David
Mahoney in making his request to Dane County Chief Judge C.
William Foust, who announced the appointment yesterday of
Patricia Barrett, a Republican. She declined to comment on her
selection.  Prosser and Bradley couldn’t be immediately reached. Tom
Sheehan, a spokesman for the state supreme court, said Prosser
“is not able to comment” and Bradley isn’t available to
comment.  Ozanne, a Democrat, challenged Republican Governor Scott
Walker’s collective-bargaining legislation in a suit filed in
March asserting Republican legislators violated the Open
Meetings Law, invalidating the adoption by the state senate.  For more, click here.  Litigation Departments  Lawyer Daugerdas Seeks New Trial Based on Juror Misconduct  Paul Daugerdas, a former lawyer at the defunct law firm
Jenkens & Gilchrist, and three other defendants convicted of a
10-year tax shelter scheme asked a judge for a new trial,
claiming a juror lied about her background to get on the panel.  In papers filed in Manhattan federal court, lawyers for the
convicted defendants claimed that Catherine Conrad, Juror No. 1
in the trial, hid details of her background from the court,
including a law degree, at least four arrests and the fact that
she is serving a sentence of probation for shoplifting.  The request for a new trial was dated July 8. U.S. District
Judge William Pauley yesterday ordered the request made public.  In May, the jury including Conrad convicted Daugerdas on
more than 20 criminal counts, including conspiracy, tax evasion
and attempting to impede the Internal Revenue Service. The
jurors found three of Daugerdas’s co-defendants guilty of tax
evasion and other charges and acquitted a fourth.  There was no answer at an office phone listing for
Catherine Conrad, a suspended Bronx, New York, attorney
identified by the defendants as Juror No. 1. A voice message
wasn’t immediately returned. It couldn’t be independently
confirmed whether the suspended attorney is the same person as
Juror No. 1.  Carly Sullivan, a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Preet
Bharara in Manhattan, declined to comment on the matter.  In court papers unsealed yesterday, defense investigators
said they first looked into Conrad’s background after she sent a
May 25 letter to Assistant U.S. Attorney Stanley Okula praising
the prosecution team and discussing the jury’s deliberations.  In the letter, Conrad described herself as “the nerdy
person with the ‘Susan Brune’ glasses, I was always head down
taking notes!” Susan Brune is a lawyer who represented
convicted defendant David Parse, an accountant who formerly
worked as a client adviser at Deutsche Bank AG unit Alex. Brown,
in the case.  In the letter, Conrad said she “held out for two days” to
convict Parse of a conspiracy charge, then “had to throw in the
towel.”  The defendants claim Conrad wouldn’t have been permitted to
serve on the jury if she had told the truth about her
background. Her presence on the panel deprived them of a fair
trial, they said.  The case is U.S. v. Daugerdas, 09-CR-581, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 