-- 
Galleon’s Rajaratnam Loses Motion for Acquittal on Insider-Trading Charges

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-08-16T22:02:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/galleon-s-rajaratnam-loses-motion-for-acquittal-on-insider-trading-charges.html
Galleon Group LLC co-founder  Raj Rajaratnam , who was found guilty of all 14 criminal counts
against him by a jury in May, lost a bid to have his convictions
thrown out.  U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell in Manhattan denied
Rajaratnam’s request for a post-trial acquittal, ruling that
prosecutors presented sufficient evidence of conspiracy and
securities fraud for the jury to convict. Holwell’s ruling was
dated Aug. 11 and filed today.  Prosecutors from the office of U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara ,
calling Rajaratnam “the face of illegal insider trading,” have
asked Holwell to give Rajaratnam as long as 24 years and five
months in prison when he’s sentenced Sept. 27.  The U.S. called Rajaratnam the most “egregious violator”
of insider-trading laws ever to be caught. He engaged in a
seven-year conspiracy to trade on inside information from
corporate executives, bankers, consultants, traders and
directors of public companies including  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS) , prosecutors said.  Terence Lynam, a lawyer for Rajaratnam, declined to comment
on the ruling.  Rajaratnam, 54, gained $63.8 million as a result of the
scheme, according to the government.  Inside Information  Prosecutors told jurors that Rajaratnam used inside
information to trade ahead of public announcements about
earnings, forecasts, mergers and spinoffs involving more than a
dozen companies, according to the evidence presented to jurors
in the eight-week trial. Among the companies were  Santa Clara ,
California-based  Intel Corp ., Google Inc., ATI Technologies Inc.
and Clearwire Corp.  Twice during the trial -- at the end of the prosecution
case and at the close of the defense case -- lawyers for
Rajaratnam asked Holwell to find that the evidence didn’t
support a conviction. Holwell delayed ruling until after the
jury convicted Rajaratnam of five counts of conspiring to trade
on inside information and nine counts of trading on inside
information.  In his ruling today, Holwell considered each of the counts,
finding that prosecutors had introduced “evidence sufficient
for a reasonable jury to find Rajaratnam guilty beyond a
reasonable doubt” on all of them.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 