-- 
Italian, Spanish Bonds Rise on Speculation ECB Buying the Nations’ Debt

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-08-16T16:14:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/german-bonds-advance-after-economy-expands-less-than-economists-forecast.html
Italian and Spanish  government bonds 
gained amid speculation the  European Central Bank  has kept
buying the nations’ securities to stabilize markets.  The gains pushed the extra yield that investors demand for
holding Italian 10-year bonds instead of similar-maturity German
bunds to the least since July 25, while the Spanish spread also
narrowed. Benchmark 10-year German bonds were little changed
after climbing earlier, when data showed the euro area’s
economic growth slowed more than economists predicted. German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  is meeting French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  to discuss the euro region’s debt crisis this evening.  “The ECB has intervened aggressively over the last week,
and that has put a lid on yields,” said  Nick Stamenkovic , a
fixed-income strategist at RIA Capital Markets Ltd. in
Edinburgh. “There’s been a big narrowing of spreads against
bunds, but further progress near-term is likely to be fairly
modest unless the ECB ups the amount of intervention.”  The yield on the Italian 10-year bond fell three basis
points to 5 percent as of 4:20 p.m. in  London . That left the
extra yield investors get for holding the securities instead of
German bunds at 269 basis points, down from 271 basis points
yesterday.  Spain ’s 10-year yield fell two basis points to 4.98
percent, leaving the spread over bunds at 266 basis points,
versus 267 basis points yesterday.  The Frankfurt-based ECB said yesterday that it settled
government-bond purchases worth 22 billion euros ($31.7 billion)
in the week through Aug. 12, more than the 15 billion-euro
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of economists and
strategists.  Three people with knowledge of the transactions said the
ECB bought Italian and Spanish securities today.  Growth Slows  Merkel and Sarkozy may announce proposals that “go in the
direction” of joint euro-area bonds,  Peter Bofinger , an
economic adviser to the German government, said in an interview
today on Bloomberg Television. “They cannot end this day empty
handed. I think they have to deliver something.”  The European Union’s statistics office said gross domestic
product in the 17-nation euro area rose 0.2 percent in the
second quarter, less than the 0.3 percent median estimate of 34
economists in a Bloomberg survey. That’s the worst performance
since the euro region emerged from a recession in late 2009.  German gross domestic product, adjusted for seasonal
effects, expanded 0.1 percent in the second quarter, government
statistics showed. That’s less than the 0.5 percent median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Dutch growth also
slowed to 0.1 percent, less than the 0.3 percent estimate in a
separate forecast.  Safe Havens  “Clearly the market did not pencil in this much downside
risk for the German economy,” said  David Schnautz , a fixed-
income strategist at Commerzbank AG in London. “This also
increases the appeal of the flight to quality. The worse we get
in terms of growth, the better it is to be invested in safe
havens if sovereign-debt concerns are lingering.”  Ten-year German yields fell one basis point to 2.31
percent, after being as low as 2.27 percent. The 3.25 percent
securities maturing in July 2021 rose 0.105, or 1.05 euros per
1,000-euro face amount, to 108.165. Yields on two-year notes
were little changed at 0.72 percent.  Spain sold 5.7 billion euros of bills, its largest such
sale since February. The yield on Greek two-year notes was 37
basis points higher at 34.48 percent as the nation sold 1.3
billion euros of 13-week bills at a yield of 4.5 percent.  Germany  is scheduled to auction as much as 7 billion euros
of two-year notes tomorrow.  German government bonds handed investors a profit of 4.4
percent this year, compared with 6.6 percent for U.S.
Treasuries, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  