-- 
German Second-Quarter Growth Almost Stalls as GDP Rises 0.1%

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 
2011-08-16T09:19:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/german-economy-almost-stalled-in-q2.html
The German economy,  Europe ’s
largest, almost stalled in the second quarter as the region’s
sovereign-debt crisis weighed on confidence.  Gross domestic product, adjusted for seasonal effects, rose
0.1 percent from the first quarter, when it jumped a revised 1.3
percent, the  Federal Statistics Office  in Wiesbaden said today.
Economists had forecast growth of 0.5 percent, according to the
median of 33 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. From a year
earlier, GDP increased 2.8 percent.  The worse-than-expected GDP data from Germany, which had
been powering euro-area growth, add to signs Europe is flirting
with a renewed economic slump as the debt crisis curbs spending
across the region. France’s recovery unexpectedly ground to a
halt in the second quarter, Italian and Spanish expansion
remained sluggish and  Greece ’s economy contracted.  “The German data are certainly disappointing,” said
 Juergen Michels , chief euro-area economist at Citigroup Inc. in
 London . “Going forward, I wouldn’t exclude that the euro area
will fall into recession, but the main scenario is still one for
weak expansion.”  The euro dropped about a quarter of a cent after the
release and traded at $1.4399 at 11:10 a.m. in  Frankfurt .
European stocks fell for the first time in four days, with the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index declining 1.2 percent.  Euro-Area Data  Growth in the 17-nation euro region slowed to 0.2 percent
in the second quarter from 0.8 percent in the first, the
European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said today.
Economists had forecast growth of 0.3 percent, a Bloomberg
survey shows.  France  said last week its economy stagnated in the three
months through June, while reports on Aug. 5 showed Italy’s GDP
rose 0.3 percent and Spain’s increased 0.2 percent. The Dutch
economy grew a less-than-forecast 0.1 percent, while Austria’s
expanded 1 percent.  Europe’s malaise is further confirmation of a cooling
global economy. Japan cut its annual growth forecast last week
on weaker export prospects, Hong Kong’s economy unexpectedly
shrank in the second quarter and  China ’s expansion slowed. In
the U.S., Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled he
may expand record monetary stimulus to revive a faltering
recovery and reduce unemployment stuck around 9 percent.  Market Turbulence  “The external environment for growth is weakening,” said
 Christian Schulz , senior economist at Joh. Berenberg Gossler &
Co. in London. “Supported by resilient domestic demand,  Germany 
should fare better during the current growth pause than other
countries. But if the U.S. were to fall into recession and with
it other countries, the large open German economy would be hit
harder.”  Some $6.1 trillion has been wiped off equity markets since
July 26 after Europe’s debt crisis spilled into Italy and Spain
and the U.S. saw its  credit rating  cut for the first time. The
fallout may have a “material adverse effect” on business,
Germany’s Kion Group, a forklift maker, said on Aug. 12.  Germany’s second-quarter GDP result is the weakest since
the country emerged from recession two years ago, prompting
Commerzbank AG to cut its 2011 growth forecast to 3 percent from
3.4 percent. The statistics office revised first-quarter growth
down from an initially reported 1.5 percent.  ‘Slower Gear’  Imports rose more than exports in the second quarter, the
office said. While that boosted inventories, it also ensured
that net trade had a negative impact on GDP. Private consumption
and construction also dragged on growth. Company investment
rose. A detailed breakdown will be published on Sept. 1.  “The economy has shifted into a slower gear,” said
 Andreas Scheuerle , an economist at Dekabank in Frankfurt.
“While there are no signs of a double dip in Germany and all
options to turn the corner remain open, recession risks have
increased as a result of recent market developments.”  The Bundesbank in June predicted the economy will expand
3.1 percent his year and 1.8 percent in 2012, saying increased
household spending will help to compensate for slowing export
growth. Unemployment is at a two-decade low of 7 percent.  Even so, confidence among consumers, businesses and
investors fell in July. Three of Germany’s biggest companies,
 Siemens AG (SIE) , BASF AG and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , reported second-quarter
earnings that missed analyst estimates and said they had become
more cautious about the economic outlook.  ‘Turning Point’  “The second quarter marks a turning point in the German
business cycle,” said  Andreas Rees , chief German economist at
UniCredit Group in Munich. “The period of exuberant growth is
now behind us, but German companies do have one major trump card
up their sleeve that will soften the negative effects stemming
from a slowing global economy -- very high backlog orders which
can be worked off in coming months.”  MAN SE (MAN) , Europe’s third-largest truckmaker, raised its 2011
earnings outlook last month after second-quarter profit
increased and orders climbed 18 percent.  Linde AG (LIN) , the world’s
second-biggest maker of industrial gases, in June won an order
to construct Indonesia’s largest air separation plant and on
July 29 reported second-quarter profit that beat analysts’
estimates.  In today’s release, the statistics office said it revised
its historical data series from 1991 to take account of a new
classification of economic sectors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  