-- 
Germany’s Opponents of Common Bond Provoked by U.S. Downgrade: Euro Credit

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 
2011-08-17T09:55:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/germany-s-opponents-of-common-bond-provoked-by-u-s-downgrade-euro-credit.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s resolve
to defend  Germany ’s top credit rating in the wake of  Standard &
Poor’s  U.S. downgrade is at odds with the likely expense of
containing Europe’s debt crisis.  Merkel faces a domestic audience both wedded to Germany’s
AAA rating and divided over whether Europe’s largest economy
should provide financial succor to its currency-union partners
in the form of common bonds. Mohit Kumar of Deutsche Bank AG
estimates an aggregate credit rating of AA+ for the euro region,
a notch lower than Germany is used to, which would make it
impossible to maintain a top grade while allowing Euro bonds.  “A transfer union where Germany pays for the debt of other
countries, but has no access to their tax revenues, would
probably be the worst outcome for Germany’s rating,” said
 Kornelius Purps , a strategist at UniCredit SpA in Munich.  The difference between the cost to insure German bunds and
U.S. Treasuries rose to a record 34 basis points on Aug. 11, as
traders increased bets that Germany will end up responsible for
the debts of countries such as Italy and  Spain , whose 10-year
borrowing costs topped 6 percent this month. The German-American
gap widened even after Standard & Poor’s cut the U.S.
government’s credit rating one level to AA+ on Aug. 5.  “The downgrade by S&P sends a significant sign to market
participants” that there’s a “turnaround” in the perception
of debt sustainability for major economies, said Peter
Walschburger, a professor at Berlin’s Freie Universitaet who
specializes in economic psychology.  ‘Final Step’  Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings both kept the
U.S. at AAA. Germany holds the top rank at all three companies.  Germany’s opposition Green and Social Democratic parties
back joint euro-region bonds, as do Italy and Greece. Such
common issuance is opposed by Merkel’s junior coalition
partners, the Free Democrats.  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said yesterday that euro
bonds “would seriously threaten the most stable euro-zone
countries with the top ratings, and they would then have to
guarantee debt that they do not control.”  Sarkozy was speaking in Paris at a joint press conference
with Merkel, who said common bonds won’t “help us now.”  Germany would face additional interest costs of 47 billion
euros ($68 billion) per year if joint euro-region bond sales
were introduced, the Ifo economic institute said today. “For
Germany, an artificial convergence of  interest rates  by means of
a communization of liabilities would generate significant
additional costs long-term,” Ifo said in its paper.  French Jitters  Economics professor Wilhelm Hankel, 82, who is challenging
Germany’s role in the Greek bailout and the euro-region rescue
fund in constitutional court, says those extra costs would be
enough to send the nation into a recession.  Investors currently demand a six-basis-point premium to
hold German 10-year bunds instead of benchmark U.S. Treasuries.
That spread has reversed from an 18 basis-point gap in Germany’s
favor during the past year.  Concern about the creditworthiness of France, the euro’s
second-largest member, helped fuel a stock slide by the
country’s banks last week and sent the premium for French
 government bonds  versus those of Germany to a euro-era record.  The French jitters followed the ECB’s decision to start
buying Italian and Spanish bonds on Aug. 8 to shore up markets.  “The downgrade of the U.S. was a signal that changed
everything,” said  Anton Boerner , head of Germany’s BGA
association of exporters and wholesalers. “Germany and the
whole of  Europe  need the euro, and therefore we must make Europe
happen also politically, and be ready to go all the way,” he
said. Any alternative to euro bonds would cost the currency
region’s members even more in the end, he said.  ‘Absolute Determination’  Germany and France share an “absolute determination” to
defend the euro, Sarkozy said yesterday. They proposed debt
limits be written into national law and establishing a “euro
council” as part of a planned “economic government.”  Solutions proposed by others, such as expanding the size
and scope of the emergency fund, creating euro bonds or
increasing fiscal transfers “miss the point,” Michael Meister,
the finance spokesman for Merkel’s  Christian Democrats , has
previously said, because they don’t incentivize the countries
receiving aid to trim their debts and deficits.  Merkel and other euro-region leaders have pledged to do
“whatever is needed” to shore up the 17-nation currency bloc.
Germany has guaranteed the largest share of loans totaling about
275 billion euros to help  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal .  No Alternative  “There has to be some fiscal risk pooling,” said Kumar,
Deutsche Bank’s head of euro-region and U.K. rate strategy.
“It’s bad for Germany in the short run, but the alternative on
the table is the dissolution of the euro zone.”  Fifty-two percent of those who support Merkel’s party said
they oppose rescuing struggling euro-area states, while 42
percent were in favor, according to a Forsa poll for the
Hamburg-based magazine Stern published on Aug. 10.  “The number of those in parliament who are critical toward
additional aid measures and don’t want to go down this road
anymore is growing,” Klaus-Peter Willsch, a lawmaker from
Merkel’s CDU, said in a phone interview. He’s called for a
special party congress before the September vote in parliament
on more aid for Greece and changes to the rescue fund, known as
the European Financial Stability Facility.  Willsch said he “hopes” that the U.S. rating downgrade
will inhibit Germany from bailing out the so-called peripheral
euro members.  Slowing Growth  German appetite for supporting weaker nations may wane as
growth stalls, said  Christoph Rieger , head of fixed-income
strategy at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . The German economy grew
just 0.1 percent in the second quarter, data released yesterday
showed, while  France  didn’t grow in the same three months.  Asked if bailouts should be used again, “even if they were
necessary to keep the euro zone intact,” 59 percent of Germans
disagreed and 20 percent agreed, according to a Bloomberg/YouGov
Plc poll published on Aug. 16. Three quarters of those surveyed
disapproved of Merkel’s actions so far.  Germany can still help its neighbors without losing the AAA
rating, said  Steven Major , head of fixed-income research at HSBC
Holdings Plc in  London .  “Germany needs its people to start to understand that the
country has benefited a lot from the euro zone in the last 10
years, from a trade point of view,” Major said. “It’s got the
headroom to find a solution.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 