-- 
Gilead Takes AIDS Drug-Cocktail Approach to Fighting Cancer

-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 
2011-08-16T20:19:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/gilead-takes-aids-drug-cocktail-approach-to-fighting-cancer.html
Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD)  is on a mission
to make cancer more like AIDS -- an illness that can be kept at
bay over the long term, rather than a lethal disease.  The company, which leads the market for AIDS drugs, is re-
entering the market for cancer medicines a decade after selling
its oncology unit. Since December, Gilead has spent $600 million
for two companies developing experimental therapies and signed a
research deal with  Yale University , just as scientists are
suggesting that drug cocktails may work as well against cancer
as they do against HIV.  Gilead seeks to capitalize on advances in  cancer research 
that help pinpoint the way to fighting tumors, letting it repeat
the company’s success in matching combinations of medicines to
prolong the lives of AIDS patients. The return to oncology, the
world’s top-selling drug category, is a smart move for the
 Foster City , California-based company because it can expand its
portfolio and boost revenue, said Joel Sendek, an analyst at
Lazard Capital Markets in New York.  “They have a very strong balance sheet, their HIV business
is generating a lot of cash, and they have a clear plan for the
next generation of HIV drugs,” Sendek said. “They’re at a
stage in their maturity where they need to do more.”  Cancer-drug sales generated almost $56 billion in 2010 and
will expand 12 percent to 15 percent annually, reaching as much
as $80 billion by 2012, according to Norwalk, Connecticut-based
IMS Health.  Gilead rose $1.58, or 4.2 percent, to $38.85 at 4 p.m.  New
York  time in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading. The
company’s shares have gained 7.2 percent this year.  Beyond Chemotherapy  While traditional cancer treatments use radiation and
chemotherapy in an attempt to kill the disease’s spread, that
approach can damage healthy tissue. The ability to sequence
genomes rapidly has allowed researchers to discover mutations in
certain cancers that may be targeted by new drugs without
damaging other parts of the body.  Gilead, which sold its oncology business in 2001 to OSI
Pharmaceuticals Inc. for about $200 million, is betting it can
use these advances to find new medicines.  “Ten years from now, if you have any cancer, or pre-
cancer, you will be sequenced, and based on the genetic changes
identified, you will be assigned treatments,” Norbert Bischofberger, Gilead’s chief scientific officer, said in an
interview.  The company’s most advanced experimental cancer drug is GS-
1101, which blocks the so-called PI3 kinase pathway.
Phosphoinositide-3 kinases, or PI3K, are enzymes linked to tumor
growth and survival.  Blood Cancer  The drug, acquired with the $375 million takeover of
Calistoga Pharmaceuticals Inc. announced in February, is in the
second of three stages of clinical trials. It’s being tested on
patients with different types of blood cancer.  Still, expanding into different areas may be difficult,
said Alan Carr, a Needham & Co. analyst in New York.  “When you spread yourself out like that, you can create
some challenges: Can you have expertise in all these different
indications?” Carr said. “With their oncology, we’ll have to
wait and see how this plays out. It’s very early and they don’t
have a track record in this area.”  Gilead also isn’t alone in seeing the potential for new
oncology treatments. Companies such as  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , Amgen Inc.
and Roche Holding AG are testing at least 18 experimental drugs
targeting the PI3 kinase pathway.  DNA Sequencing  They’re also using drugs developed from DNA sequencing as
part of treatment combinations. Daiichi Sankyo Co.,  Japan ’s
third-largest drugmaker, acquired closely held Plexxikon Inc. of
Berkeley,  California , earlier this year for about $935 million.
Plexxikon’s medicine targets the  BRAF  gene, a cancer-causing
mutation expressed only in tumor cells.  London-based  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  is studying a combination
of two experimental medicines in melanoma -- one that tries to
block a protein spurring the spread of the disease, the other
that thwarts a protein that helps the cancer evade drugs.  Another focus for Gilead is monoclonal antibodies that
stimulate a patient’s immune system to attack disease-causing
cells. Its acquisition of Arresto Biosciences Inc. for $225
million, gave the company a drug that targets the LOXL2 protein
believed to aid in the early spread of tumors. The experimental
therapy, GS-6624, is in the first stage of clinical testing.
Earlier this month, Gilead purchased a 70,000-square-foot lab
from  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s  Genentech  to make GS-6624.  More Predictable  “We really shied away from being in cancer because
typically Phase I studies are about as non-predictable as they
can be,” John Milligan, Gilead’s president and chief operating
officer, told analysts in March. “What we’ve been doing over
the last year or so is we started looking at areas where the
biology and the chemistry had matured to the point where parts
of human disease were very much well, more well understood.”  Other novel approaches may come from its collaboration with
Yale, and through more acquisitions, Bischofberger said.  “We have looked at a number of commercial products that
are potentially for sale, or available for licensing,” he said.
“We’re getting a huge amount of proposals and requests and
we’re spending a fair amount of time sifting through them.”  Future developments may lead to a cocktail of drugs that
add years to a cancer patient’s life -- similar to how HIV was
transformed from a death sentence 15 years ago. HIV is
manageable today with medicines such as Gilead’s two-therapy
combination Truvada, Bischofberger said.  ‘Absolutely Convinced’  “I am absolutely convinced the same will be applicable in
cancer,” he said. “That’s where we think the field is going.”  Even after the acquisitions, Gilead will need to boost
spending on research and acquisitions to expand into oncology,
Bischofberger said. The company spends about 13 percent of its
revenue in research, compared with the industry average of about
24 percent, according to Bloomberg data.  “The absolute intent, desire and ambition is that 10 years
from now, and hopefully sooner, we will be a major player in
oncology,” Bischofberger said. “If we don’t screw it up, and
things continue to go well, I think we can do that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 