-- 
Google Paying Dot-Com Bubble Price in Motorola Deal: Real M&A

-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-08-16T20:25:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/google-set-to-pay-dot-com-bubble-price-in-motorola-mobility-deal-real-m-a.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  needs to secure mobile-
phone patents so badly it’s willing to pay the highest premium
for a wireless-equipment company since the dot-com bubble.  Google, maker of the Android mobile-phone software, agreed
to acquire Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. for $40 a share in
cash, or 73 percent more than the stock’s 20-day trading
average. That’s the most expensive premium paid in a wireless-
equipment takeover greater than $500 million since 1999,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The $9.8 billion price
tag including net cash is 32 times the target’s 2010 adjusted
earnings, also the highest valuation in 12 years, the data show.  While General Counsel Kent Walker said last month Google
would be “disciplined” in its approach to patents, the
 Mountain View , California-based company is paying a rich enough
premium to deter rival bids for Motorola Mobility’s more than
17,000 patents, said Nomura Holdings Inc. After losing out on
Nortel Networks’ licenses to a group including  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,
Google is now using its $39 billion in cash to buy exclusive
rights to mobile-device technologies to fend off lawsuits and
compete against rival smartphones such as Apple’s iPhone.  “In order for Google to gain leverage, Google was forced
to overpay for this company,” Chad Morganlander, a  Florham
Park , New Jersey-based  money manager  at Stifel Nicolaus & Co.,
which oversees more than $115 billion in client assets, said in
a telephone interview. “This deal is a defensive move by
Google.”  Becki Leonard, a spokeswoman for Motorola Mobility, and
Aaron Zamost, a spokesman for Google, declined to comment on the
valuation.  Biggest Takeover  Motorola “has a strong patent portfolio, which will help
protect Android from anticompetitive threats from Microsoft,
Apple and other companies,”  Larry Page , chief executive officer
for Google, said on a conference call yesterday.  Google, the biggest maker of smartphone software, agreed to
pay $12.8 billion for Libertyville, Illinois-based Motorola
Mobility’s equity, according to data compiled by Bloomberg that
includes exercisable options, to add its mobile patents and
expand in the hardware business. Motorola Mobility also has $3
billion in cash and no debt.  The deal, which was approved by both companies’ boards, is
the largest in the wireless-equipment industry in at least a
decade, the data show.  The 73 percent premium is the highest offered for a
wireless-equipment maker greater than $500 million since MCI
WorldCom Inc. agreed to buy CAI Wireless Systems Inc. at a 209
percent premium more than a decade ago, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The industry average is 38 percent.  ‘Big Premium’  Based on 2010 financial results, Google is paying 32 times
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
the data show. That’s the most expensive valuation since  Intel
Corp . offered 43 times Ebitda for DSP Communications Inc. in
1999, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “They just wanted to make sure that this was very, very
attractive to Motorola and that they’d say yes without any
issues,” Mike Genovese, a Greenwich, Connecticut-based analyst
at MKM Partners, said in a phone interview. “So, they’re doing
it at a big premium and all in cash.”  Motorola Inc. split in January into Motorola Mobility and
Motorola Solutions Inc., which makes radio equipment for
emergency workers and scanning devices for retailers. Motorola
Mobility’s Ebitda is expected to climb 42 percent this year to
$436 million, according to 17 analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. The deal multiple would be 22.5 times Ebitda, based
on 2011 financials, the data show.  Reverse Breakup Fee  Given Motorola Mobility’s cash, the purchase price is not
“crazy,” said Brian Barish, Denver-based president of Cambiar
Investors LLC, which oversees about $8 billion, including almost
7.9 million shares of Motorola Mobility. Google may sell the
television set-top box and mobile-phone hardware businesses, he
said.  Google agreed to pay Motorola Mobility $2.5 billion if the
deal falls through, said a person with knowledge of the
situation, who declined to be identified because the detail
hasn’t been disclosed. The reverse breakup fee is more than six
times the typical amount relative to the transaction’s
enterprise value, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Motorola Mobility, which had dropped 26 percent since its
separation before the takeover was announced, closed at $38.12
yesterday. The mobile-phone company was about 4.7 percent below
the purchase price, a “normal discount,” according to  Timothy Ghriskey ,  Bedford Hills , New York-based chief investment officer
at Solaris Group LLC, which manages $2 billion.  ‘Premium Bid’  “I’d be surprised if there’s another bidder, especially
given the premium that Google is paying and the reverse breakup
fee and the fact that this is all cash,” Ghriskey said in a
phone interview. “Clearly this is a premium bid.”  Motorola Mobility fell 0.3 percent to $38.02 today. Google
declined 3.3 percent to $539, after dropping 1.2 percent
yesterday.  The deal values Motorola’s more than 17,000 patents, as
well as 7,500 more that are pending, at about $6 billion, or
almost two-thirds of the total equity price,  Stuart Jeffrey , a
New York-based analyst at Nomura, wrote in a research note
yesterday.  “In Google’s mind, the patents make up the majority of
that value,” Chris Marlett, chief executive officer of MDB
Capital Group, a  Santa Monica , California-based investment bank
specializing in intellectual property, said in a phone
interview. “Right now everyone is getting very excited about
patents. There’s an urgency in the mobile space.”  Nortel Patents  Google, with $39.1 billion in cash and short-term
investments, was outbid in June for bankrupt Nortel’s 6,000
patents with a $4.5 billion offer from a group of six companies
including Apple and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  That was five times the
amount of Google’s initial bid.  Last month, billionaire  Carl Icahn  urged Motorola Mobility
to explore alternatives for its patent portfolio, which the
activist investor said was “substantially larger than Nortel
Networks’ and includes numerous patents concerning 4G
technologies.”  Google is aiming to increase competition with Apple’s
iPhone by bolstering Android, which Google offers to phone
manufacturers for free,  Matt McCormick , a money manager at
Cincinnati-based Bahl & Gaynor Inc., which oversees $4 billion,
said in a phone interview.  “This is an attempt to increase the ante in the smartphone
market,” McCormick said. “Google is committed to Android and
is willing to pay a substantial premium to maintain its position
and enhance it.”  Bolstering Android  Android was the top smartphone operating system in the
second quarter as sales rose more than fourfold to account for
43.3 percent of the market, according to research firm Gartner
Inc. The Android software runs on Motorola Mobility’s phones, as
well as some handsets made by Samsung Electronics Co. and HTC
Corp. Apple had an 18.2 percent share, the researcher said.  Apple and Microsoft have sued Android-based device makers
regarding the use of intellectual property, disputes that are
still awaiting court rulings. In a  blog post  Aug. 3, Google said
Apple, Microsoft and Oracle Corp. were using patents to wage a
“hostile, organized campaign” against Android.  “If a company intends to compete in mobile devices and
doesn’t come to the table with a broad array of patents at its
disposal, it will be competitively disadvantaged,” said
Cambiar’s Barish.  The acquisition shows that Google is fighting to maintain
its foothold in the mobile-device industry, said MDB Capital’s
Marlett.  “Luckily they have the market value to be able to
compete,” Marlett said. “Google’s entire franchise is based
upon capturing your eyeballs on a screen, and all the eyeballs
are going to mobile devices. Google either has to get into the
device side of the business, or they have to buy enough IP that
they can battle effectively.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in  New York  at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 