-- 
Google Buys Motorola for ‘Superpower’ Status

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   I a n   K i n g
-- 
2011-08-16T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/google-buys-motorola-for-superpower-status-in-feud-with-apple.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  is relying on its
planned $12.5 billion purchase of Motorola Mobility Holdings
Inc. to forestall patent litigation and force settlements with
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  over smartphone technology.  Google cited patent disputes as key to its agreement to buy
Motorola Mobility, announced yesterday. Apple, maker of the
iPhone, and Microsoft, developer of Windows Phone software, have
targeted phones that run on Google’s best-selling Android
system, including handsets built by Motorola Mobility, Samsung
Electronics Co. and  HTC Corp. (2498) , in lawsuits worldwide.  Lacking its own trove of patents to vie with Apple,
Microsoft and other companies, Google and its hardware partners
were targeted by suits aimed at slowing the adoption of Android
smartphones. Adding the 17,000 patents of Motorola Mobility,
which has been inventing mobile-phone technology since the
industry began, may help Google stanch the onslaught.  “The analogy to a nuclear arms race and mutually assured
destruction is compelling,” said Ron Laurie, managing director
of Inflexion Point Strategy LLC, which counsels companies on
purchasing intellectual property. Google and its rivals “look
pretty evenly matched at the moment. Google may have become a
patent superpower.”  The goal of Google’s new patent clout is also to act as
protection for the handset makers that have been bearing the
brunt of the litigation, the company said yesterday.  Patent Weaponry  Competition for dominance in the smartphone market has
heated up since Google introduced Android in 2008. Patents,
which grant exclusive rights to use a specific invention, have
become a way to fight for market share and inhibit rivals from
introducing new features.  Apple stepped up the patent feud by suing Android
manufacturers, claiming Google-powered devices copy the iPhone
and iPad. Microsoft has sued Motorola Mobility and Barnes &
Noble Inc., whose Nook reader runs Android software.  Apple and Microsoft have focused on the devices that run on
Android, while  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , which has sued  Mountain View ,
California-based Google directly, contends Android was developed
using its Java programming language. Oracle is seeking billions
of dollars in damages for patent- and copyright-infringement,
and Google’s response has been limited to challenging the
validity of Oracle’s patents.  Heightening the dispute, a group led by Apple and Microsoft
won an auction of patents owned by Nortel Networks Corp. in June
after bidding up the price to $4.5 billion, beating out Google
in the largest-ever patent auction.  Google Shops Around  Before agreeing to buy Motorola Mobility, Google had few
patents on mobile-phone technology. The company’s research had
focused largely on its main search-engine business.  Google, seeking to tilt the balance, has actively sought
patents that it said could be used as a deterrent to litigation,
culminating in the purchase of Motorola Mobility. Google bought
more than 1,000 patents in July from International Business
Machines Corp.  “Yesterday you could sue Google and you weren’t taking any
risks because they didn’t have any patents,” said  Pierre
Ferragu , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein in  London . “Today
it’s the same as suing Motorola.”  The purchase of Motorola Mobility lessens the likelihood of
future bidding wars, Ferragu said.  “You have very, very few transactions that would make
sense today,” he said. “You possibly have some smaller
transactions as Google continues to shop around for quality.”  ‘Level Playing Ground’  Motorola Mobility traces its roots to the 1928 founding of
Galvin Manufacturing Corp. in  Chicago . The company, renamed
Motorola, was a pioneer of early televisions and two-way radio
in World War II. It helped lay the foundation for the mobile-
phone industry, demonstrating its first handset in 1973.  “Motorola was a pioneer in this business,” said Will Strauss, an analyst at Tempe, Arizona-based Forward Concepts Co.
“They certainly have a lot of intellectual property. It will
certainly level the playing ground quite a bit. It’s going to
give them an awful lot to defend Android with.”  The purchase would directly embroil Google in litigation,
where its partners have until now been the main targets.
Motorola Mobility has its own pending lawsuits against Apple and
Microsoft. A case Microsoft brought against Motorola Mobility is
due to begin trial Aug. 22 at the U.S. International Trade
Commission in  Washington , and a victory may mean a ban on
imports of Motorola phones. Motorola Mobility retaliated with a
bid to ban U.S. imports of Microsoft’s Xbox video-game systems,
with a trial scheduled for October.  Protecting the Ecosystem  Motorola Mobility’s case against Cupertino, California-
based Apple also was scheduled to begin Aug. 22, though it’s
been postponed. Apple’s case against Motorola begins in
September at the ITC. Samsung and HTC also have each filed
separate suits against Apple.  “We believe we’ll be in a very good position to protect
the Android ecosystem for all of the partners,” Google Chief
Executive Officer Larry Page said in a conference call with
analysts yesterday. Motorola will manage the litigation until
the acquisition is completed, expected by the end of this year
or early next year, he said.  Kevin Kutz , a spokesman for Redmond, Washington-based
Microsoft, declined to comment on what Google’s purchase of
Motorola Mobility might mean for the litigation. Kristin Huguet,
an Apple spokeswoman, also declined to comment.  Nokia Agreement  Apple has been winning so far, with an ITC judge’s finding
that, if upheld, could lead to a ban on imports of HTC phones
into the U.S. and a court order that prevents Samsung from
introducing its new Galaxy Tablet in most of the European Union.
As yet, nothing has stopped sales of Motorola’s phones or Xoom
tablet.  Google may be hoping that an agreement can be reached with
Apple that mirrors one the computer maker struck with another
phone pioneer,  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , said Bernstein’s Ferragu.  The Finnish phone maker in June said it won an almost two-
year patent dispute with Apple in a settlement that provided it
with a one-time payment plus royalties.  “From that, you could infer that in the end it’s going to
be Apple paying Motorola, paying Google,” Ferragu said.  While there will continue to be patent purchases in the
mobile-phone market, litigation may slow if Google is successful
in its strategy of using patents as leverage to strike
settlements and keep further lawsuits at bay.  “It may not be the end, but you can see it from here,”
said Inflexion Point Strategy’s Laurie. Google “was such an
obvious target, and now they’re not,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  