-- 
Google, Pfizer, Vizio, Zynga, Apple: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-08-16T11:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/google-pfizer-vizio-zynga-apple-sturgis-cbs-intellectual-property.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , the biggest maker of
smartphone software, agreed to buy Motorola Mobility Holdings
Inc. for $12.5 billion in its largest acquisition, gaining
mobile patents and expanding in the hardware business.  Motorola Mobility, under pressure from activist investor
Carl Icahn to shift strategy, gives Google more than 17,000
patents it can leverage in negotiations with competitors such as
Apple.  Larry Page, the Google co-founder who took over as chief
executive officer in April, is pushing the Web company into
smartphones to take on Apple Inc.’s iPhone and gain more clout
for its Android software in the wireless business.  Motorola shareholders will get $40 a share in cash, the
companies said in a statement yesterday. That’s 63 percent more
than Motorola Mobility’s closing price on the  New York  Stock
Exchange on Aug. 12. Both boards have approved the takeover.  T-Mobile USA Inc. introduced the first phone powered by
Google’s Android software, made by HTC, in October 2008.
Android, which Google offers for free, will remain available to
other manufacturers, the company said. Winston Yung, chief
financial officer of HTC, gave his support to the deal, saying
it will strengthen “the whole Android ecosystem.”  Google said Samsung and Android-phone manufacturers Sony
Ericsson Mobile Communications AB and  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)   also
support  the transaction. In a  blog posting  Aug. 3, Google
accused Apple, Microsoft and Oracle Corp. of using patents to
wage a “hostile, organized campaign” against Android.  “There is an intellectual property arms race between
Apple, Google and Microsoft,” said Kevin Smithen, a
telecommunications analyst at Macquarie Securities Group in New
York.  Google had a total of 754 patents assigned to it as of last
week, according to the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office
database, not including patents Google bought last month from
International Business Machines Corp. Apple received 563 new
patents just last year, the agency said.  The deal marks the end of independence for a company that
helped pioneer mobile phones and introduced its first consumer
handset in the early 1980s.  Motorola announced a plan to spin off its mobile-phone
business in March 2008 amid market share losses and pressure
from billionaire Icahn. The company completed the split in
January, after the global recession delayed the deal. Motorola
Inc. became Motorola Solutions Inc., which makes radio equipment
for emergency workers and scanning devices for retailers.  The Google acquisition is likely to attract the attention
of regulators, said  Mark Mahaney , an analyst at Citigroup Global
Markets, who rates Google a “hold.” The company, which owns
the world’s most popular search engine, is already under review
by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission over its business
practices.  “Regulatory scrutiny will likely be material,” Mahaney
said in a report yesterday. It’s “very hard to see this deal
closing by year-end,” he wrote.  Still, the scrutiny may be tempered by the fact that Google
doesn’t currently make handsets, and that Apple and Microsoft
have already gained approval for the purchase of Nortel’s
patents, said Macquarie’s Smithen.  “We’re quite confident that this will be approved,” said
David Drummond, Google’s chief legal officer.  Pfizer Wins Viagra Patent-Infringement Case Against Teva  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  won a patent-infringement case that prevents
 Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  from marketing a generic
version of the impotence drug Viagra until 2019.  U.S. District Judge Rebecca Beach Smith in Norfolk,
 Virginia , ruled Aug. 12 against Petach Tikva, Israel-based Teva,
which claimed patent 6,469,012 wasn’t valid and couldn’t be
enforced.  “Teva has not shown by clear and convincing evidence that
the patent is invalid,” Smith said in a 110-page opinion. In
addition, “there is utterly no evidence” to support Teva’s
claim that that Pfizer intentionally withheld documents from the
U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, Smith wrote.  Viagra sales increased 5.5 percent in the first quarter to
$479 million, Pfizer said in May. New York-based Pfizer, the
world’s biggest drugmaker, posted net income of $8.26 billion
last year on sales of $67.8 billion.  “Protecting the intellectual property rights of our
innovative core is critical,” Amy Schulman, Pfizer’s general
counsel, said in a statement. “Friday’s court decision
acknowledges Teva’s clear violation of our patent rights.”  The ruling was “a surprise,” Bloomberg Industries analyst
Asthika Goonewardene said in an interview.  “The patent was a method-of-use patent, and usually these
don’t hold up that well in court for small molecular drugs,”
Goonewardene said. “The court’s decision to uphold this patent
means other filers wanting to enter in 2012 are not likely to do
so then.”  Denise Bradley, a Teva spokeswoman, declined to comment on
the ruling.  The case is Pfizer v. Teva, 10-cv-128, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Virginia (Norfolk).  Renesas Patent Complaint Seeks to Bar U.S. Imports of Vizio TVs  Renesas Electronics Corp. (6723) , the world’s biggest maker of
microcontrollers used in cars and appliances, filed patent-
infringement complaints seeking to block Vizio Inc. televisions
from the U.S.  Renesas accused Vizio of violating rights on two patents in
an Aug. 12 filing with the U.S. International Trade Commission
in  Washington . The Japanese company also sued closely held Vizio
in a federal court in Marshall,  Texas .  Patent 7,199,432 covers an arrangement of connections on
the surface of the circuit. Patent 6,531,400 is for a
manufacturing process that reduces corrosion, according to the
ITC complaint. Kawasaki, Japan-based Renesas contends that
circuits in Vizio’s digital televisions are made using these
patented inventions.  Vizio, based in  Irvine ,  California , has its own patent-
infringement case pending against Renesas at the ITC that was
instituted last month. A trial in that case, which also involves
digital TVs, is scheduled for next June, according to
information on the agency’s website.  Renesas, formed in 2003 from the semiconductor divisions of
 Hitachi Ltd. (6501)  and  Mitsubishi Electric Corp. (6503) , is owned by those
two companies and NEC Corp., according to the ITC complaint.  The civil case is Renesas Electronics Corp. v. Vizio Inc.,
2:11-cv-00356, U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of
Texas (Marshall). The ITC case is In the Matter of Digital
Televisions Containing Integrated Circuit Devices, Complaint No.
2840, U.S. International Trade Commission (Washington).  The Vizio case against Renesas is In the Matter of Digital
Televisions and Components Thereof, 337-789, U.S. International
Trade Commission (Washington).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Zynga Has Company in Quest for ‘With Friends’ Trademarks  Zynga Inc., the online game developer that is planning an
initial public offering, applied to register “With Friends” in
March 2011, according to the database of the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office.  The San Francisco-based company said it planned to use the
term for computer games, according to the pending application.
It also applied in January 2011 to register “words with
friends” for computer games. Zynga is best known for its
 Farmville and Mafia Wars games  played through Facebook Inc.’s
social media site.  Some of the other “with friends” possibilities may be
forestalled by a group of 12 applications filed earlier this
month by Roxy Friday LLC of Newport Beach, California. According
to the applications, marks such as “canasta with friends,”
“cribbage with friends,” “dominos with friends,” and
“farkle with friends” are all to be used for computer games.  Two applications have been filed this month for the use of
“crosswords with friends” for computer games. One application
is from Roxy Friday and the other is from Montie Jacobson of
Irvine, California.  According to the fusible.com website , one of the officers
of Roxy Friday is Brian Fargo, the chief executive officer of
inXile Entertainment of Newport Beach California. Closely held
InXile is also a game company.  City Officials Shut Down 22 Fake Apple Stores in Kumming,  China   All 22 fake versions of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s stores have been shut
down in Kumming, China, Tech World  reported .  The city itself took action closing the stores upon receipt
of a complaint Apple sent Aug. 2, according to Tech World.  Apple is one of the most popular brands in China, with huge
lines forming outside its authorized stores in China every time
the Cupertino, California-based company releases a new product
in that country, Tech World reported.  The company, best known for its iPhone and iPad, has only
four official stores in China, two in  Shanghai  and two in
Beijing, according to Tech World.  Sturgis Trademark Enforcement Causes Decline in Event Vendors  The number of vendors at the annual gathering of motorcycle
fans Aug. 8-14 in Sturgis, South Dakota, declined this year in
the wake of the rally’s sponsor’s attempt to enforce its
trademark, the Rapid City Journal  reported .  The non-profit  Sturgis Motorcycle Rally Inc.  registered
trademarks earlier this year and sent letters to potential
vendors demanding they not sell merchandise bearing the marks
without permission, the newspaper reported.  Property owners in downtown Sturgis who ordinarily rented
space to rally vendors lost money “because their main guys
didn’t come back” over the trademark dispute, David Wilson of
Sturgis Real Estate Promotions told the Rapid City Journal.  Dean Kenney, chairman of Sturgis Motorcycle Rally Inc. said
after his group sent out cease-and-desist letters, some vendors
did sign licensing deals and he saw little evidence of boycotts
of the licensed products by rally attendees, the newspaper
reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Stephen King’s ‘Duma Key’ Doesn’t Infringe Copyright, Court Says  A federal judge in Atlanta has dismissed a copyright
infringement suit against best-selling author Stephen King and
his publishing house  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s Simon & Schuster.  Rod Marquardt, a South Carolina resident, sued King in
December 2010, claiming that King’s “Duma Key” infringed the
copyright to his novel “Keller’s Den.”  The South Carolina writer claimed King’s book too closely
resembled his in terms of “plot, plot devices, structure,
sequence of events, setting, characters, characterizations,
character function and relationships.”  King’s publisher responded in February, saying in a court
filing that the only common elements in the two works are
“abstract ideas, stock elements and random similarities
isolated from the expressive context in which they appear, none
of which are protected by copyright.”  Marquardt, who by the end of the case was no longer
represented by counsel, filed a motion July 7 opposing the
publisher’s request that the case be dismissed. In that filing
he said that the defendants’ “downplaying similarities is a
tactic that is expected but should not be construed as
accurate.”  In a July 9 order, U.S. District Judge Julie E. Carnes said
that Marquardt’s book failed to meet copyright law’s standards
for infringement due to “substantial similarity,” and
dismissed the case.  The case is Marquardt V. King, 1:10-cv-03946-JEC, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Georgia (Atlanta).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  DoubleLine’s Gundlach Says He Offered to Buy TCW in 2009  DoubleLine Capital LP’s  Jeffrey Gundlach  testified that in
September 2009 he offered to buy TCW Group Inc., the asset-
management company that fired him three months later.  Gundlach, who started DoubleLine weeks after TCW fired him
in December 2009, told a Los Angeles jury yesterday that he
offered about $350 million for 51 percent of the firm. TCW
claims that Gundlach and three other former TCW employees stole
its trade secrets to open a rival business. Gundlach says TCW
fired him to avoid paying hundreds of millions of dollars in
fees.  TCW, the Los Angeles-based unit of  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA,
sued Gundlach, 51, in January 2010, a month after more than half
of TCW’s fixed-income professionals had joined his new firm. TCW
seeks $375 million in damages, claiming Gundlach stole its trade
secrets, including client portfolio data, to start DoubleLine.  Gundlach, who had worked at TCW for 25 years and who was
named Morningstar’s Fixed Income Manager of the Year in 2006,
countersued, saying that TCW fired him to avoid having to pay
management and performance fees for the distressed-asset funds
his group managed and that went “through the roof.” Gundlach
seeks about $500 million.  TCW argues that Gundlach wouldn’t have been able to get
DoubleLine started so quickly if he hadn’t had access to the
trade secrets and confidential information.  TCW claims Gundlach instructed subordinates to download
confidential and proprietary information, including client data,
around the time of the September meeting to be used at his own
firm. Gundlach today disputed testimony by Cris Santa Ana, a co-
defendant and counter-claimant, detailing the kind of TCW
information he wanted collected.  Gundlach also said he spoke with Western Asset Management
Co. earlier in 2009 about moving the funds he managed at TCW to
the rival company. The talks were prompted by Paris-based
Societe General’s announced intention to get out of the asset-
management business and the arrangement he contemplated would
have been beneficial to TCW as well, Gundlach said.  A proposed June 12, 2009, compensation arrangement by
Western Asset Management, based on an estimated $150 million in
revenue from his business, was a non-starter and he didn’t read
a follow-up proposal, Gundlach said.  The case is Trust Co. of the West v. Gundlach, BC429385,
California Superior Court, Los Angeles County.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 