-- 
Gundlach Says He Was ‘Furious’ When Employee Failed to Return TCW Device

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-08-16T18:20:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/gundlach-says-he-was-furious-when-employee-failed-to-return-tcw-device.html
DoubleLine Capital LP’s  Jeffrey Gundlach  said he was “furious” that an employee failed to
return a device belonging to TCW Group Inc. after the company
fired him.  In his third day of testimony, Gundlach told a Los Angeles
jury today that DoubleLine’s policy was to return all TCW
devices and information.  “I yelled at everybody,” Gundlach said, describing a
meeting with DoubleLine staff after he learned in early 2010
that one of them, Jeffrey Mayberry, had been late returning a
computer drive with TCW files. “I told them this was
unacceptable.”  TCW, the Los Angeles-based unit of  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA,
fired Gundlach, 51, in December 2009 and sued him in January
2010 after more than half of its fixed-income professionals
joined his new firm. TCW seeks $375 million in damages, claiming
Gundlach stole its  trade secrets , including client portfolio
data, to start DoubleLine.  Gundlach, who had worked at TCW for 25 years and who was
named Morningstar’s Fixed Income Manager of the Year in 2006,
countersued, saying TCW fired him to avoid having to pay
management and performance fees for the distressed-asset funds
his group managed and that went “through the roof.” Gundlach
seeks about $500 million. Mayberry is a co-defendant and cross-
complainant in the case.  ‘Useful to Have’  Cris Santa Ana, a former managing director of Gundlach’s
mortgage-backed securities group at TCW, testified earlier that
Gundlach instructed him in September 2009 to start backing up
data that “might be useful to have” in case Gundlach was
fired.  Santa Ana  is a co-defendant and cross-complainant with
Gundlach.  Santa Ana, who was fired together with Gundlach and joined
DoubleLine, said he downloaded or asked others to copy client
contracts, portfolio holdings and contact information, as well
as files of trade orders and TCW’s entire mortgage-backed
securities database. Santa Ana said he downloaded part of the
data to an external hard drive.  A TCW vice president testified that she smuggled a hard
drive out of TCW’s office in her bra the evening of Dec. 4.
Santa Ana said he and other former TCW employees that joined
DoubleLine didn’t use any of the TCW’s proprietary information
at the new firm.  TCW argues that Gundlach wouldn’t have been able to get
DoubleLine started within weeks after he was fired if he hadn’t
had access to TCW trade secrets and confidential information.  Gundlach said today that that from when DoubleLine started
on Dec. 14, 2009, the policy had been not to use any TCW files
they still had and to return them to TCW.      The case is Trust
Co. of the West v. Gundlach, BC429385, California Superior
Court,  Los Angeles  County.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  