-- 
Miami Declares ‘Financial Urgency’ as It Moves to Cut Worker Pay, Benefits

-- B y   S i m o n e   B a r i b e a u
-- 
2011-08-16T20:44:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/miami-declares-financial-urgency-as-it-moves-to-cut-worker-pay-benefits.html
Miami, facing a $61 million fiscal
2012 deficit, declared a state of “financial urgency” for a
second straight year, moving toward wage and benefit cuts.  The declaration gives unions for municipal workers two
weeks to agree to contracts for the year that starts in October
or be subject to actions imposed by the City Commission. Workers
including police and firefighters absorbed about $80 million in
reduced pay, health insurance and pensions in fiscal 2011.  “In order to balance the budget, sacrifices have to be
made by everyone,” Pat Santangelo, a spokesman for Mayor Tomas Regalado, said today by telephone. The city is the state’s
second-largest by population, after Jacksonville.  Miami joins at least two Florida cities that also have
invoked the fiscal statute, including one that may force
reductions on union workers. Hollywood, which made a declaration
in May, is set to cut salaries, including for police and
firefighters, as much as 12.5 percent. State law gives cities
special powers when they declare financial urgency.  Unions for Miami police, firefighters, sanitation workers
and general employees will get letters notifying them that he
had declared financial urgency to begin the two-week period,
City Manager Johnny Martinez said yesterday in a statement.  Pembroke Pines  In 2009, Pembroke Pines declared financial urgency to
reopen employment contracts to help close a projected deficit,
according to the city’s website. City Manager Charles F. Dodge
didn’t respond immediately to telephone messages seeking comment
on how the issue was resolved.  Miami’s estimated 2012  budget deficit  grew to $61 million
from $54 million because of court-ordered reimbursements from
taxes on mobile-telephone data plans, Martinez told the City
Commission, the equivalent of a city council, on July 28.  Standard & Poor’s  cut Miami’s general-obligation bond
rating two steps to BBB, the second-lowest investment grade, on
June 28 and gave it a negative outlook, partly because of
lawsuits from city unions stemming from cuts imposed in August
2010. The legal actions “expose the city to significant
liabilities at a time when its available reserves and liquidity
are low,” S&P said in a report.  Miami sold about $70.6 million in revenue refunding bonds
on July 13, with an insured 20-year security, rated AA+ by S&P,
maturing in February 2031 priced to yield 5.75 percent, or 1.09
percentage points more than a Bloomberg Valuation index of
similarly graded municipal debt. In the most recent trade on
Aug. 9, the yield fell to 5 percent, or 0.53 percentage point
more than the Bloomberg index.  2011 Lows  Yields on top-rated 20-year municipal debt fell to about
3.51 percent yesterday, the lowest since November, according to
a Bloomberg Valuation index. Yields on 10-year Treasury notes
sank to a record of 2.03 percent Aug. 9 as U.S. equity prices
slid to the lowest level of the year.  Members of Miami’s police union voted last week to support
a recall effort to oust Regalado, citing “mismanagement” of
the city’s finances.  “The mayor is not qualified to lead this city into
financial stability,” Armando Aguilar, president of the union,
said in a statement on its  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Baribeau in Miami at 
 sbaribeau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 