-- 
Libyan Prince Says Qaddafi Will Be Ousted If Rebels Are United

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-08-16T11:59:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/libyan-prince-says-qaddafi-will-be-ousted-if-rebels-are-united.html
Libyan Prince Muhammad bin Sayyid
Hassan as-Senussi said  Muammar Qaddafi  will be toppled “sooner
rather than later” if rebels keep their unity and resolve, as
the conflict in the North African nation enters its sixth month.  “Day after day, week after week, most of the nation has
stood together, united against the tyrant as brave freedom
fighters have taken up arms,” as-Senussi said in a statement on
his website today. “For  Libya  to take its place among the great
nations of the world, we must work together as one people.”  On Feb. 17, Libyans in the eastern town of Benghazi staged
a peaceful protest calling for more rights, and were fired upon
by security forces. In March, amid international condemnation of
Qaddafi’s escalating crackdown on dissent, the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization began an air campaign to protect civilians.  After several weeks of stalemate, the rebels are claiming
advances on the battlefield. Opposition forces say they have
ended nightly rocket attacks by Qaddafi’s military by taking the
town of Tarwaga, near the western city of Misrata. They also say
they are inside Zawiya, 35 miles (56 kilometers) from the
capital, Tripoli.  Qaddafi has lasted longer than expected amid reports of
fuel and food shortages in Tripoli, which he controls. This
week, he urged his supporters to resist NATO and rebel fighters
in a speech aired as an audio file on state television.  “United we must fight for a new society in which the
freedoms and rights of the people come first,” said as-Senussi,
who now lives in  London . “This long struggle, one that has been
longer than we had hoped, is not yet over,”  As-Senussi is the son of Hassan as-Senussi and the great-
nephew of King Idris, who was overthrown by Qaddafi in September
1969. The prince, who pushed for a no-fly zone over Libya in
February, has worked with Libyan expatriates to send goods,
clothing and medicine to the North African country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 