-- 
Middle East-Asia Supertanker Rents Plunge as Ship Glut Persists

-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 
2011-08-16T16:13:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/middle-east-asia-supertanker-rents-plunge-as-ship-glut-persists.html
Rental income for supertankers
hauling Saudi Arabian crude oil to  Japan  decreased today as a
glut of available vessels remained.  Daily returns for very large crude carriers, each able to
haul 2 million barrels on the benchmark voyage between the
 Middle East  and  Asia , plunged to minus $1,041, according to the
 Baltic Exchange  in London. Rental income, which varies with
bunker fuel costs, turned negative yesterday after three
sessions in a row of positive returns last week.  Charter rates for VLCCs moved 0.4 percent higher to 45.49
Worldscale points, according to the exchange. That’s 35 percent
lower than the start of the year.  “Spot bookings of vessels look weaker on world scale
points,” Ben Goggin, head of freight derivatives at SSY Futures
Ltd. in  London , wrote in an e-mail today. SSY Futures is part of
Simpson, Spence & Young Ltd., the world’s second-largest
shipbroker.  Worldscale points are a percentage of a nominal rate, or
flat rate, for more than 320,000 specific routes. Flat rates for
every voyage, quoted in U.S. dollars a ton, are revised annually
by the Worldscale Association in London to reflect changing fuel
costs, port tariffs and exchange rates.  The price of global ship fuel, or bunkers, increased 0.6
percent to $640.05 a metric ton today, rising 26 percent from
the start of the year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
from 25 ports worldwide.  The Baltic Dirty Tanker Index, an overall measure of
shipping crude that includes vessels smaller than VLCCs,
declined by 0.3 percent to 693, according to the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  