-- 
Highway Spending Often a Dead-End Investment: Edward Glaeser

-- B y   E d w a r d   G l a e s e r
-- 
2011-08-16T00:00:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/highway-spending-often-a-dead-end-investment-edward-glaeser.html
There is a time to spend and a time
to cut and we are now in an age of austerity. Even since
 Standard & Poor’s  downgraded the U.S.’s AAA credit rating
earlier this month, some Keynesians still favor more spending.
They say the threat that the economy will dip back into
recession calls for more public outlay.  They are right that the recovery is weak. Seasonally
adjusted unemployment remains at 9.1 percent, and among people
older than 20 the rate actually fell from June to July,
according to the  U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics .  Europe ’s debt
problems are unsolved and the U.S. stock market is
extraordinarily volatile.  But Congress has made clear it won’t respond by spending
more money -- and that is probably a good thing. In the past,
stimulus funding has been aimed at improving roads, airports and
other forms of infrastructure. Yet it’s not at all clear that
such spending provides enough value for the dollar.  Consider, for example, spending on highways. President
 Barack Obama ’s  2012 budget  called for investing $556 billion on
surface transportation over the next six years.  If we spend an extra $100 billion building roads, we boost
the economy and reduce unemployment. But if the $100 billion
spent generates only $50 billion worth of value to drivers in
the form of safety and faster, smoother commutes, then it’s not
necessarily worth the price.  Unfortunately, as the  Office of Management and Budget  noted
when it evaluated federal spending on highways, in most cases
“funding is not based on need or performance and has been
heavily earmarked.”  Need for Roads  Fans of infrastructure spending often argue generally that
America’s great need for improved roads, bridges, airports and
the like calls for federal outlays, but their case has never
been made convincingly.  The  McKinsey Global Institute , for example, has cited
relatively low broadband penetration in the U.S., and the
nation’s world ranking in infrastructure, which fell to 23rd in
2010, from seventh in 2000.  It is true that only 68 percent of American households have
 broadband , compared with more than 95 percent of South Koreans.
But  South Korea  strongly subsidizes broadband. And it’s not
clear why the U.S. government should do the same. Why bribe
people to download YouTube videos more quickly?  Only 3.1 percent of people who don’t have broadband say
it’s because they lack access to it, according to the National
Telecommunications and Information Administration. Most people
say it’s because the connection is too expensive, or they are
just not interested.  Our infrastructure ranking isn’t all that bad in comparison
with our standing on budget-balancing: 118th, right ahead of
 Romania . On wastefulness in  government spending , the U.S. ranks
68th, just behind  Ghana . These numbers don’t exactly suggest it
would be a good idea to borrow more money to spend on tunnels
and dams.  Of course, we still need to fix our infrastructure, but we
ought to find ways to invest in it more economically. Why not,
for example, get users to pay? Many roads and airports, for
example, benefit primarily the people of a single state. So it
would make more sense to have state governments foot the bill.  Congress has made it clear that it wants to not only avoid
new stimulus spending but also find ways to further trim the
budget. The way to do this wisely in a slow economy is to
overhaul government. And in doing so, we should aim at our great
entitlements: Social Security and Medicare.  Raise  Retirement Age   If it weren’t for the politics involved, reducing spending
on Social Security would be easy: Just increase the retirement
age. Cuts to Medicare, on the other hand, would be hard both
politically and conceptually. I can’t wait to see the proposal
produced by the Congressional supercommittee that is being
formed as a result of the recent deal to raise the debt limit.  A good cost-benefit analysis of our various defense
programs is in order, too.  After that, we are left with four big budget categories
that aren’t related to entitlements or national security: health
and human services; education; transportation; and housing and
urban development. This spending includes some investment and
some humanitarian relief. Money for education serves both
functions, given that America’s economic future depends on its
human capital. So education isn’t a good target for deep cuts.  On the contrary, saving money by reducing school spending
would be penny-wise, pound foolish. Both the “Race to the Top”
and “No Child Left Behind” programs help ensure access to decent
schooling.  Massachusetts  lifted its limit on  charter schools 
partly to qualify for “Race to the Top” funds.  Can spending on infrastructure possibly be as important?
Certainly, trucks need to be able to move swiftly throughout
America, but truckers should be able to pay for their own roads.
Good airports are also important, but air passengers can finance
their own amenities. We shouldn’t have to subsidize people to
drive or take planes.  Rethink Poverty Programs  Compared with most advanced economies, the U.S. spends
relatively little on  social safety . To cut our spending on  food
stamps , housing vouchers or temporary assistance for needy
families would be to cause real suffering. The right approach is
not to keep the same system and spend less, but to rethink our
approach to poverty. We could start by consolidating three
massive programs, now each run by a separate department:
Agriculture handles food stamps, Housing and  Urban Development 
runs the housing program, and Health and Human Services manages
Temporary Assistance for Needy Families. A single entity should
be charged with delivering the most effective combination of aid
our budget can buy.  Needless to say, savings could be found in many other
programs, including the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration and agricultural subsidies. Tax breaks for things
such as ethanol and low-income housing could certainly be
reduced.  None of these reductions should happen right now, of
course, while the economy remains very weak. But Congress can
enact budget cuts that are phased in as the recovery progresses.  We can create a better government, if we are careful to
trim spending where costs exceed benefits. Let’s pull out our
green eyeshades and start calculating.  (Edward Glaeser, an economics professor at  Harvard
University , is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the author of
“Triumph of the City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Edward Glaeser at  eglaeser@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 