-- 
Milk Powder Prices Slump to Lowest in More Than a Year at Fonterra Auction

-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 
2011-08-17T01:41:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/milk-powder-prices-decline-to-lowest-in-12-months-fonterra-auction-shows.html
Whole-milk powder declined to the
lowest in more than a year as escalating concerns that global
economic growth may falter reduced demand.  Powder for October delivery fell to $3,359 per metric ton,
the lowest level since Aug. 3 last year, from $3,477 two weeks
earlier, according to Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd., the
largest dairy exporter. The near-term contract fell 2.9 percent,
according to a trade-weighted  price index  from the company.  Lower dairy prices may help cap global food costs that rose
in June for the 10th time in the past year, staying near a
record reached in February. Whole-milk powder has slumped 32
percent since reaching a record $4,958 in March as high prices
spurred farmers in the U.S. and New Zealand to boost output.  There’s “more realization that global growth, or at least
growth in the western world, is a lot slower than what some were
hoping for, and that will likely feed through into lower demand
for commodities and for dairy products,” said Doug Steel,
markets economist at Bank of New Zealand Ltd. in Wellington.
“There was the potential for buyers to be less willing to step
up given what’s been going on in financial markets.”  Standard & Poor’s  cut the U.S. credit rating by one level
from the top AAA grade on Aug. 5., spurring a rout in global
equities last week and stoking concern that the U.S. may lapse
into another recession.  European Growth  Gross domestic product in the 17-nation euro area rose 0.2
percent from the first quarter, when it increased 0.8 percent,
the European Union’s statistics office said yesterday. That’s
the worst performance since the euro region emerged from a
recession in late 2009.  European leaders are scrambling to halt a government-debt
crisis after concern spread last week to  France , the second-
largest euro economy, and calls grew for the leaders to discuss
joint borrowing or a mutual guarantee among the 17 euro states.  Auckland-based Fonterra said in May that production in  New
Zealand  was 4 percent ahead of a year earlier and output may
reach a record after mild autumn weather boosted pasture growth.  New Zealand’s milk output may surge 5.7 percent in 2011-
2012, the  Ministry of Agriculture  and Forestry said on June 14.
U.S. production gained 1.1 percent in June to 16.5 billion
pounds (7.5 billion kilograms) from a year earlier as prices on
the Chicago Mercantile Exchange surged 43 percent in the past
year, the Department of Agriculture said last month.  Asian Demand  Chinese demand for New Zealand milk products last year
surged more than fivefold from 2008 to about 353 million
kilograms, according to Fonterra. Demand in the Asian nation
will expand by 36 million tons and almost triple in value by
2020, the company said in April.  “Certainly indicators are a lot stronger than those in the
west and we know that’s where a lot of the demand for dairy
products has been coming from,” said Steel. “The auction
results suggest that demand hasn’t tapered too much.”  Global consumption of liquid-dairy products may increase 30
percent over the next decade as the middle classes expand in
China and  India , Tetra Pak Group said July 11.  Fonterra , which accounts for about 40 percent of the global
trade in dairy products, sells whole and skim-milk powder,
dried-milk fat and casein at its  GlobalDairyTrade  auctions. The
company offers one-month contracts with delivery from two months
after the sale, and two three-month contracts with delivery
three and six months later. Casein is a protein found in milk.  Whole-milk powder for delivery from November to January
fell 2.6 percent, Fonterra said. Powder for shipment from
February to April was unchanged. Across all contracts, prices
declined 2.2 percent.  In other auctions, near-term cheddar rose 5.8 percent,
while butter-milk powder and milk-protein concentrate also
increased. Milk fat, skim-milk powder and casein prices fell.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  