-- 
One Million Online Users Bringing Rift Between Sony-Microsoft Games: Tech

-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 
2011-08-17T17:27:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/million-online-bringing-rift-between-sony-microsoft-games-tech.html
A million  Internet users  have
flocked to the fantasy world of “ Rift ” since its March
release, in a trend that threatens games consoles such as  Sony
Corp. (6758) ’s PlayStation and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Xbox.  Trion Worlds Inc.’s “Rift” costs $50 for initial access
to a space where customers can link with other gamers to fight
fantastic creatures and each other. By 2013, revenue from games
that can be played online or on a mobile device will jump 50
percent to $32.6 billion, overtaking those of console games for
the first time, according to  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP .  Trion and rivals such as  Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI) , whose
titles include “Call of Duty,” are aiming for a bigger share
of that market as they flaunt their latest hits this week at
 Gamescom  in Cologne, Germany, Europe’s largest video-game fair.
The battle is also heating up among hardware makers, with
consoles that only enable games probably losing ground to
connected devices, according to Microsoft, whose Xbox 360 was
the top-selling console in the U.S. in June.  “The impact of smartphones and tablet PCs is a watershed
event for the console games developers,” said Reimar Mueller, a
consultant at PwC in  Frankfurt . “When you look at the handheld
consoles, like the Nintendo DS, they are limited to playing
games, whereas if you buy a smartphone, it’s an entertainment
device that lets you do everything.”  ‘Angry Birds’  Online offerings include Activision’s “World of
Warcraft,” a “massively multiplayer” role-playing game with
more than 11 million players, and titles from Zynga Inc., which
has 232 million active monthly users for titles including
“Farmville.” Rovio Entertainment Oy’s “Angry Birds” game has
been downloaded more than 300 million times to computers and
mobile phones.  U.S. retail sales of packaged games and hardware fell 26
percent in July, researcher NPD Group said. Consoles accounted
for 67 percent of video-game sales in the U.S. last year, or
$10.3 billion, according to PwC figures. In  Asia , console games
revenue contributed to 34 percent of the total, or $7.7 billion.  “The overall console market is stagnating,” Oliver Kaltner, who is responsible for Microsoft’s game business in
 Germany , said in an interview in Cologne. “If you are offering
gaming consoles only, this might limit your sales potential for
the future because consumers expect more. They expect connection
to their movies, they want to connect with their friends and
families.”  Voice Control  Microsoft, which boosted sales of the Xbox after
introducing the movement detection sensor Kinect last year,
plans to add voice control that can work both in games and in
the Bing search engine on the console this Christmas, Kaltner
said.  Microsoft is also addressing mobile-phone users, bringing
the Internet Explorer 9 browser to its Windows Phone software
and introducing 18 new games this fall. “Gaming is one of the
major components you have to have on a smartphone,” he said.  A “standout case” of a company exploiting digital
opportunities in games is  Electronic Arts Inc. (ERTS) , the world’s
second-largest maker of games, said Piers Harding-Rolls, head of
 games analysis  at IHS Screen Digest in  London . The maker of
“The Sims,” “ Star Wars ” and “Harry Potter” games bought
companies such as Playfish Inc. and PopCap Games to expand in
the social games market and supports multiple platforms.  Electronic Arts’s soccer game “FIFA 12” will be available
on 12 platforms, including games consoles, mobile handsets,
Facebook and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad, said Jens Uwe Intat, general
manager for EA Publishing in Europe.  ‘Massive Growth’  “The massive growth in the industry right now is in
online, mobile, social” platforms, John Riccitiello, chief
executive officer of  Redwood City , California-based Electronic
Arts, said in an interview.  Bigpoint GmbH, one of  Europe ’s largest online games
companies and maker of the browser game based on television show
“Battlestar Galactica,” sidestepped consoles from the start
and is planning its first games for smartphones and tablet
computers this fall.  “Tablet PCs will replace consoles,” CEO Heiko Hubertz
said in an interview today. “Already by the end of the year
there will be technology that allows for a high-definition WiFi
connection between tablets and your television, where your
tablet will be the controller.”  Nintendo Co. last month slashed the price of its 3DS
portable console by as much as 40 percent. It sold 214,821 3DS
units in  Japan  last week, the most since 371,326 units in the
last week of February, when the 3DS was introduced, Tokyo-based
researcher Enterbrain Inc. said.  Twitter on PlayStation  Nintendo “didn’t have a sufficient amount of high-quality
software at launch or straight after launch,” said  Nick Gibson, 
an analyst at Games Investor Consulting Ltd. in London.  Nintendo’s decision has also put pressure on Sony to cut
the price of the PlayStation Vita portable player that will come
to Japan by the end of 2011 and to the U.S. by next year.  Sony will add a host of social-networking applications to
the handheld system, allowing users to access sites including
those run by Facebook, Foursquare Labs Inc. and Twitter Inc. The
console costs as much as $430 in Europe.  Sony also said yesterday it will lower the price of its
Playstation 3 console to $249 from $299 with immediate effect.
Sony plans to release a new version of its portable handheld
games player PSP this fall for 99 euros in Europe,  Jim Ryan ,
chief operating officer of the company’s European operations,
said in Cologne. The current model sells for 169 euros.  Wii Successor  Before today, Sony had declined 42 percent this year in
Tokyo trading, while Nintendo was down 51 percent. Microsoft
fell 9.2 percent on the Nasdaq Stock Market. Electronic Arts was
up 22 percent.  Sony slipped 0.8 percent to 1,687 yen on the Tokyo exchange
today. Nintendo rose 2.8 percent to 12,030 yen. Microsoft lost
1.1 percent to $25.06 at 1:25 p.m. in  New York . Electronic Arts
was down 1.9 percent to $19.64.  Nintendo is preparing a successor to its Wii console for
2012, called the  Wii U , making it likely Sony and Microsoft will
soon follow with successors to  Xbox 360  and PlayStation 3,
Gibson said. PWC said it expects the next generation of consoles
to be released by 2015.  While Trion will publish games for any platform with a Web
connection, a gamer can go into a store and buy “Rift” in “a
nice shiny box” for a console if they want, CEO Lars Buttler
said. The console in this case is just the access point and a
broadband connection is necessary as the game updates
continuously on Trion’s servers.  The console “is no longer the ultimate platform,” Buttler
said. “There will be another generation of consoles, but this
next one might be the last.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ragnhild Kjetland in Frankfurt at 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  