-- 
Import Prices in U.S. Rose 0.3% in July; Ex-Petroleum 0.2%

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-08-16T13:01:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/import-prices-in-u-s-rose-0-3-in-july-ex-petroleum-0-2-1-.html
Prices of goods imported into the
U.S. rose in July, led by gains in costs of fuel, industrial
supplies and clothing.  The 0.3 percent gain in the import-price index followed a
revised 0.6 percent drop in June, Labor Department figures
showed today in  Washington . Economists projected a 0.1 percent
decrease for July, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey. Prices excluding petroleum rose 0.2
percent.  Slowing growth in emerging economies such as China and
 Brazil , coupled with weakening demand in the U.S. amid political
gridlock and stock declines, means import prices are likely to
taper off this month. Federal Reserve policy makers last week
said they expected inflation to “settle” lower as commodity
price gains “dissipate further.”  “While core prices continue to operate higher than
expected, they should roll over in coming months as trade
volumes slow because the dollar looks to have found its
bottom,” said  Eric Green , chief market economist at TD
Securities Inc. in  New York . “From the Fed’s perspective they
don’t want more inflation, they want less, which will make it
easier for them to address some of the recent growth concerns.”  Projections  Projections for import prices ranged from a decrease of 1.8
percent to an increase of 0.4 percent, according to the
Bloomberg survey of 54 economists.  Stock-index futures held earlier losses after the report on
growing concern over a global growth slowdown after  Germany  said
its economy almost stalled in the second quarter. The contract
on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 1.2 percent to 1,183.9
at 8:34 a.m. in New York.  Treasury securities  rose, sending
the yield on the benchmark 10-year note down to 2.27 percent
from 2.31 percent late yesterday.  Compared with a year earlier, import prices rose 14
percent, today’s report showed. That was the largest 12-month
increase since the 18.1 percent gain in the period from August
2007 to August 2008.  The cost of imported petroleum rose 0.6 percent from the
prior month and was up 49 percent from a year earlier.  Excluding all fuels, import prices increased 0.2 percent
from the prior month and were up 5.5 percent from July 2010.  Prices for industrial supplies excluding fuels rose 0.7
percent in July, led by costlier fertilizers and other
chemicals.  Imported food was 0.5 percent more expensive last month.
Costs of imported automobiles, parts and engines fell 0.3
percent, the first decline since December 2010. They were up 3.9
percent over the past 12 months.  Cotton Apparel  Consumer goods  excluding vehicles showed a 0.4 percent
advance after increasing 0.2 percent in June. Higher prices for
cotton apparel and diamonds drove the advance for consumer
goods.  Imported goods from China rose 0.4 percent, while those
from the European Union rose 0.6 percent.  Federal Reserve policy makers last week said they expect
“inflation will settle, over coming quarters, at levels at or
below those consistent” with the Fed’s dual mandate of
maintaining  price stability  as well as fostering job growth as
“the effects of past energy and other commodity price increases
dissipate further.”  Fed policy makers also said economic growth so far this
year had been “considerably slower” than expected. They
announced they would hold the benchmark lending rate near zero
“at least” through the middle of 2013 to spur growth.  The Fed’s preferred price gauge, which excludes food and
fuel, rose 1.3 percent in June from a year earlier. Fed policy
makers aim for long-run overall inflation of 1.7 percent to 2
percent, according to their June forecast.  Commodity Costs  Most companies are finding ways to attenuate higher costs
for commodities such as fuel and cotton rather than increasing
prices at a time when demand is weak.  Consumer spending  grew at
a 0.1 percent annual rate in the second quarter, the slowest in
two years, the Commerce Department said last month..  Packaging Corp. of America, a maker of packaging products
for shipment, is working to offset higher costs with increased
volume and productivity, Mark Kowlzan, chief executive officer
of the  Lake Forest , Illinois-based company, said on a July 19
conference call.  “Inflationary cost pressures continued, however, and
remain a concern, with higher costs reducing our earnings,” he
said. “We’ve been on a roller coaster.”  Department store chain J.C. Penney Inc. is among retailers
that have been able to work with suppliers to mitigate the
effects of higher prices.  “Our suppliers have worked very hard with us to optimize
the way we buy,” Myron E. Ullman, chairman and chief executive
officer at J.C. Penney Co. Inc., said on a conference call last
week. “Cotton prices are coming down, or have come down, so
we’re a bit more optimistic in the second half of spring that
we’ll get back to more normalized cost structure.”  Export Prices  U.S. export prices decreased 0.4 percent, the first decline
in a year, after advancing 0.1 percent the previous month,
today’s figures showed. Prices of farm exports fell 4.3
percent, the biggest drop since July 2009, while those of non-
farm goods rose 0.2 percent.  The import-price index is the first of three monthly price
gauges from the Labor Department. Data on producer prices come
out tomorrow, and the consumer-price index will be released on
the following day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net 
NI US
NI ECO
NI USECO
NI TRD
NI INF
NI AUT
NI ECOSTAT
NI GOV
NI  CHINA 
NI JAPAN
NI EUROPE
NI LATAM
NI WEBDELAY0
NI UST
NI FRX
NI TOP
NI BB 