-- 
Limuru Tea of Kenya First-Half Profit Plunges as Output Drops on Drought

-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 
2011-08-16T11:53:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/limuru-tea-of-kenya-first-half-profit-plunges-as-output-drops-on-drought.html
Limuru Tea Co., a Kenyan grower of
the leaves, said first-half profit plunged 72 percent as
production dropped amid poor rainfall and warned there may be no
improvement in the second half unless prices remain high.  Net income dropped to 5.37 million shillings ($57,835) in
the six months through June, from 23.1 million shillings a year
earlier, the Nairobi-based company said in a statement e-mailed
by the city’s stock exchange today. Sales fell 51 percent to
36.3 million shillings, it said.  “The second half of the year has not started well in terms
of crop volumes due to poor rainfall,” it said. “However, if the
fourth quarter crop forecast is achieved and tea prices remain
favourable, the company’s profitability should improve in the
second half.”  A drought in  Kenya , the world’s biggest tea exporter,
reduced production of the crop by 16 percent to 178.4 million
kilograms (393.3 million pounds) in the first half of this year,
according to Tea Board of Kenya. Exports from the East African
nation fell 2.4 percent in the period, it said last month.  Limuru is the first of Kenya’s five publicly traded tea
companies to report first-half earnings and to provide an
outlook for the second half. Its stock fell 0.6 percent to 3.15
shillings at 2:50 p.m. in Nairobi, heading for the lowest close
since July 28.  The results were “very disappointing,”  Aly-Khan Satchu ,
chief executive officer of Rich Management, a Nairobi-based
 investment adviser  to high-net-worth individuals, said in a
phone interview today. “It has to get more innovative in
creating value for shareholders like converting some land to
real estate,” he said.  Average tea prices at the auction in Mombasa, the world’s
biggest, have risen 7.9 percent so far this year to $2.74 per
kilogram, according to Tea Brokers East Africa Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net . 