-- 
GM’s Cruze Drawing Prius Owners Powers Small-Car Revival: Cars

-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   J o s h u a   A r m s t r o n g
-- 
2011-08-16T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/in-gm-small-car-revival-cruze-replaces-prius.html
Mike Sussman is one of the buyers
helping  General Motors Co. (GM)  come back in the small-car business.
The 45-year-old systems analyst just traded in a Toyota Prius
for a Chevrolet Cruze, seeking both high mileage and more pep.  “I was very, very leery about buying U.S., to be honest,”
said Sussman, who lives in Greensboro,  North Carolina . “They
got me with the mileage. It actually drives like a regular car.
With a Prius, you always feel like you’re driving a science
experiment. It just doesn’t have a lot of guts.”  The Cruze was the best-selling U.S. compact in July at
24,648 cars, beating the Toyota Corolla, Hyundai Elantra and
 Ford Focus , and it outsold cars of any size in June. GM has
found the sweet spot in the market, pricing the Cruze at as
little as $16,525, between the Corolla and the Prius, and
delivering mileage of 30 mpg or more.  The Cruze helped make GM the world’s top seller of vehicles
in the first half, a ranking it lost on an annual basis in 2008,
the year before the company’s government-backed bailout. The
company’s rise in the small-car market, where GM has
traditionally been a laggard, is emblematic of a turnaround for
the automaker.  GM’s U.S. market share rose to 20 percent in this year’s
first seven months, from 19.2 percent in the year-earlier
period. Passenger cars accounted for 42 percent of the Detroit-
based company’s sales, compared with 39 percent last year,
according to Autodata Corp. of  Woodcliff Lake ,  New Jersey .  While GM’s small-car revival has followed the March 11
natural disasters that delayed production at  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) 
and Honda Motor Co., the spurt may not be an anomaly. GM is
benefiting from improved cars and new advertising plus missteps
by the Japanese rivals, analysts and executives said.  ‘First Time Ever’  “We’re competitive for the first time ever,”  Joel
Ewanick , GM’s chief marketing officer, said in an interview.
“The buyers are completely different than we’ve seen before.”  The March earthquake and tsunami in  Japan  caused a shortage
of parts and finished vehicles. Through July, sales slid 8.1
percent for the Toyota Corolla and 9.7 percent for Honda’s
Civic.  “If the vehicle you want isn’t on the showroom floor, who
knows if you’re going to be waiting for the deliveries to come
in when there’s something equivalent in terms of performance
capabilities and fuel-efficiency?” said Chris Hopson, analyst
with IHS Automotive, a research firm based in Lexington,
 Massachusetts .  GM has sold 147,620 Cruzes in the U.S. this year through
July, more than the 74,427 Prius sold during that period while
still trailing Corolla at 154,324. Cruze sells for $16,525 to
$22,920. Prius sells for $23,520 to $30,000 while Corolla’s
price range is $15,900 to $17,770.  GM, Ford  Both GM and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  have marketed their compact cars
with high-tech features and made them more attractive than
previous low-priced economy car models, Hopson said.  Ford has advertised the Sync voice-activated entertainment
and phone system in the Focus since its 2007 introduction and in
the subcompact Fiesta since the car debuted in the U.S. in 2010.  GM’s television ads also plug high-tech features in the
Cruze. One ad shows how consumers can unlock their car remotely
using an OnStar connection through a smart phone. In another
commercial, a motorist gets Facebook updates while driving.  The automaker also took a page from Toyota’s 1989
introduction of its Lexus luxury division. GM ran ads touting
accolades the car received in the motoring press, Ewanick said.  Honda and Toyota  Inventory shortages aren’t the only issues confronting
Toyota and Honda, said Alec Gutierrez, manager of vehicle
valuation for Kelley Blue Book, an automotive research firm in
 Irvine ,  California .  Toyota’s image was hurt after recalling millions of
vehicles in the U.S. and abroad last year after driver
complaints about unintended acceleration.  Honda’s new Civic, on sale since late April, hasn’t been
well-received and was more conservative than consumers expected,
Gutierrez said.  Consumer Reports  scored the car too low to
recommend, the publication said on Aug. 9. The Yonkers, New
York-based magazine said the Civic is noisy and has a choppy
ride.  The Cruze is winning converts. Sussman, who drives 94 miles
to work, said his Prius delivered on high mileage but wasn’t fun
to drive. With the Cruze Eco, which the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency rates at 31 mpg in combined city and highway
mileage, he has been getting more than 36 mpg.  He said he can accelerate past merging vehicles instead of
being forced to slow down. The highest-volume version of the
Cruze has combined 30 mpg.  ‘Definitely Appealing’  The U.S. rates Prius at 50 mpg in combined city and highway
driving. The manual transmission version of Corolla gets 31 mpg
combined while the automatic transmission Corolla gets 29 mpg
combined.  “The Cruze is definitely appealing to the audience that
would look at Japanese and Korean compacts,” Gutierrez said.
“Domestic compacts are doing a better job of swaying that
audience.”  GM produces the Cruze at its Lordstown, Ohio, plant, which
employs 4,150 hourly workers and 350 salaried employees,
according to the company’s website. GM added 1,200 jobs to the
factory last year for a third shift.  The automaker doesn’t disclose profitability for specific
models. It’s a profitable car for GM, said  Jim Hall , principal
of consulting firm 2953 Analytics Inc. in Birmingham, Michigan.
The Cruze’s average price is $4,200 more than Cobalt, the GM
model it replaced. Cobalt lost money on all but the most-
expensive trim levels, Hall said.  Labor Costs  GM’s annual labor costs also are down $11 billion since
2005, the company said in an Aug. 9 analyst presentation.
Reductions were made as GM closed plants, reduced headcount and
negotiated with the  United Auto Workers  during 2007 contract
talks and the 2009 U.S.-backed bankruptcy.  The U.S. initially took a 61 percent stake in GM as part of
the $49.5 billion bailout. The U.S. stake is down to 32 percent
after GM’s initial public offering in November.  Cruze will encounter more competition as Toyota and Honda
rebuild inventories. Honda’s Greensburg, Indiana, plant that
builds Civics is scheduled to add a second assembly shift on
Oct. 24. Toyota said in June it expects its North American
plants will return to normal in September.  “The competitive landscape is ripe right now” for GM, IHS
Automotive’s Hopson said. “Who knows if it will still be ripe
for them as we move along when things seem to get more normal?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Welch  in Southfield,  Michigan  at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Armstrong in Southfield, Michigan at 
 jarmstrong39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  