-- 
India Protests to Prevent UN Stopping Supply of HFC-23 Carbon Credits

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r   a n d   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-08-16T14:08:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/india-protests-to-prevent-un-stopping-supply-of-hfc-23-carbon-credits.html
India , the world’s second-most
populous nation, lodged a formal complaint to prevent the United
Nations emissions market regulator from stopping issuances of
credits derived from projects that cut hydrofluorocarbon-23 gas.  “India considers such steps to be violative of the rights
and obligations of parties under the  Kyoto Protocol  and has
lodged formal protest with the UN Framework Convention on
Climate Change Secretariat” in Bonn, according to a  statement 
from Environment Minister Shrimati Jayanthi Natarajan.  Five Indian projects that destroy the gas, which traps
about 11,700 times the heat in the atmosphere compared with
carbon dioxide, have together received about 61.6 million metric
tons of credits, according to a Bloomberg calculator using UN
data. They are valued at 529 million euros ($761 million) based
on 8.59 euro-a-ton spot price of Certified Emission Reduction
credits on the BlueNext exchange in Paris as of 3:09 p.m. They
have fallen 28 percent in the year to date.  Kalpana Palkhiwala, spokeswoman at the environment
ministry, declined to comment immediately when contacted today
by phone.  The European Union this year banned factories and power
stations in its carbon market, the world’s largest, from using
HFC-23 credits from May 2013. A Danish proposal to ban the use
of the credits by governments to meet their own climate goals
gained support from almost half the 27-member EU, the
Environmental Investigation Agency said in June.  Germany ,  France  and the U.K. are among 11 nations that
officially support the proposal to ban EU countries from using
HFC-23-linked CERs to comply with emission limits under the
protocol, according to an e-mail from EIA and Bonn-based CDM-
Watch, two non-governmental groups seeking a wider ban of the
credits.  The Clean Development Mechanism Executive Board, regulator
of the UN market, will further consider revising rules governing
HFC-23 credits at a meeting planned for Sept. 25 in  Quito ,
 Ecuador , according to a report from a board meeting that ended
July 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alessandro Vitelli at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net  