-- 
India’s Inflation Rate May ‘Peak’ in August, Finance Ministry’s Basu Says

-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n   a n d   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 
2011-08-16T10:24:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/india-inflation-slows-to-9-22-pressure-for-higher-interest-rates-remains.html
India ’s inflation rate may “peak”
in August and will be about 10 percent, Kaushik Basu, the chief
economic adviser in the finance ministry, said after the price
gauge eased for a third straight month in July.  The wholesale-price index rose 9.22 percent from a year
earlier after a 9.44 percent jump in June, the commerce ministry
said in New Delhi today. The median of 22 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey was for a 9.2 percent increase.  “Till December, inflation will stay around the same
levels,” Basu told reporters in New Delhi today. “Next month,
it will peak and will be close to 10 percent. After December,
we’ll see a sharp drop in inflation.”  Price gains in India are the fastest among the so-called
BRICS nations and policy makers have raised borrowing costs 11
times since the start of 2010. Central bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said Aug. 12 that it’s “too early to say” whether
there would be a change in stance amid threats to expansion
posed by  Europe ’s debt crisis and a faltering U.S. recovery.  “Higher inflation readings over the next few months are
more or less factored in by markets,” said Sudhakar Shanbhag,
who manages $1.9 billion as chief investment officer of Mumbai-
based Kotak Mahindra Old Mutual Life Insurance Ltd. “The
inflation indicators are favoring further tightening of rates.”  Rate Increase  He expects the central bank to raise the repurchase rate by
a quarter of a percentage point to 8.25 percent on Sept. 16.  India’s 10-year government bond yields were little changed
at 8.30 percent as of 3:22 p.m. in Mumbai. The Bombay Stock
Exchange Sensitive Index fell 0.4 percent and the rupee gained
0.1 percent to 45.29 against the dollar.  Inflation erodes spending power, particularly in a nation
like India where the  World Bank  estimates three-quarters of the
population live on less than $2 a day.  India today revised its wholesale-price inflation reading
for May to 9.56 percent from 9.06 percent. By comparison,
consumer prices rose 6.9 percent in Brazil, 9 percent in  Russia ,
6.5 percent in  China  and 5 percent in  South Africa .  India’s Prime Minister Manmohan Singh said yesterday taming
inflation in the South Asian nation would be his coalition’s
“top-most” priority.  The July inflation data includes the impact of higher
diesel and cooking gas costs announced by India on June 24.  Pricing Power  Indian companies continue to have the power to pass on
higher prices to consumers and there is a need to curb inflation
expectations, Subbarao said last week. The  Reserve Bank  on July
26 maintained its growth forecast of 8 percent for the current
fiscal year ending March 31. The economy expanded 8.5 percent
the previous year.  Coal India Ltd. (COAL) , the world’s largest producer of the fuel,
posted a 63 percent increase in profit during the April-June
quarter from a year earlier after it increased prices and demand
rose. Steel output by companies including  Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA) 
climbed 12.5 percent in June from a year ago, compared with a
6.1 percent gain in May, according to the commerce ministry.  “Overall, there are reasons for the RBI to tighten, but a
wait-and-see approach cannot be ruled out if the global backdrop
worsens,”  Rajeev Malik , a senior economist at CLSA Asia Pacific
Markets in  Singapore , said in an e-mailed note before the
inflation report today.  Central bankers in most advanced nations are racing to
shield their economies from fiscal tightening and lopsided
currency swings that threaten a new global recession.  Global Crisis  The European debt crisis has shown no sign of abating with
investors’ concerns rattling  France  last week and the  European
Central Bank  starting to buy Spanish and Italian debt.  Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke and his policy-
making colleagues pledged on Aug. 9 to hold the main  interest
rate  at a record low near zero at least until mid-2013, saying
economic growth is “considerably slower” than anticipated.  “A pause, even if it is announced, on Sept. 16 should not
be mistakenly assumed to indicate that the RBI is necessarily
done with its tight money policy,” CLSA’s Malik said. “Barring
a significant global crisis that also adversely impacts domestic
liquidity, the RBI will probably stay on hold for some time
before shifting to an easier stance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  