-- 
Indonesia Increases 2012 Spending as Global Growth Slows

-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   W i d y a   U t a m i
-- 
2011-08-16T12:21:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/indonesia-increases-2012-spending-as-global-growth-slows-1-.html
Indonesia  plans to boost government
capital spending by 19 percent next year to spur Southeast
Asia’s biggest economy as President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono
warned a global slowdown may disrupt growth.  The 168 trillion rupiah ($19.7 billion) in capital spending
next year will help the nation improve its infrastructure as the
government expects economic growth to quicken to 6.7 percent,
Yudhoyono told parliament in Jakarta today. Growth may reach 6.5
percent this year, the fastest since the 1998 Asian financial
crisis, even with recent shocks to the global economy, he said.  “The financial crisis in  Europe , inflation and the risk of
overheating in China and India, and the ongoing fiscal crisis in
the  United States  are additional risks for the global economy
this year and next year,” Yudhoyono said. “All this we must
watch out for and anticipate so that it won’t disrupt the
economy of our country.”  Easing inflation and interest rates near a record low are
supporting Indonesia’s economy as soaring consumer prices
threaten growth in the biggest developing nations. Domestic
consumption accounts for about 56 percent of the Indonesian
economy, mitigating the impact of a demand crush among developed
nations.  Bank Indonesia  has kept its benchmark  interest rate  at
6.75 percent since February, 25 basis points above its record
low, after inflation eased for a sixth month in July.  Domestic Demand  Central banks in  China , India and Brazil tightened monetary
policy last month while economic growth in Europe slowed more
than forecast in the second quarter. Gross domestic product in
the 17-nation euro area rose 0.2 percent from the first quarter,
when it increased 0.8 percent, the European Union’s statistics
office in Luxembourg said in a statement today.  Standard &
Poor’s  downgraded this month the U.S. rating for the first time,
stoking concern that the global economic recovery may be at risk.  “Domestic demand is rising and export growth won’t be
significantly impacted by the slowdown in the U.S.,” said Eric Alexander Sugandi, a Jakarta-based economist at Standard
Chartered Plc.  The government plans to build 150 kilometers of railway (93
miles), 14 new airports and 4,005 kilometers of roads to boost
connectivity between regions, Yudhoyono said. Total  government
spending  may rise 7.4 percent this year to 1,418.5 trillion
rupiah, he said.  Still, the 2012  budget deficit  may narrow to 1.5 percent of
the nation’s gross domestic product, Yudhoyono said. That
compares with an estimated 2.1 percent this year, Vice Finance
Minister Anny Ratnawati said June 28.  The government has prepared measures to anticipate capital
outflow and the impact of a downturn in the global economy,
Yudhoyono said. These include buying back  government bonds ,
setting up a bond stabilization fund and using surplus funds
from the previous year’s budget to stabilize government bonds in
the domestic market, he said.  Meanwhile total subsidy spending is forecast to decline by
28.3 trillion rupiah next year while fuel subsidies alone may
amount to 123.6 trillion rupiah, Yudhoyono said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Novrida Manurung at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net ;
Widya Utami in Jakarta at 
 wutami@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net  