-- 
Industrial Output in U.S. Climbs, Easing Concern on Manufacturing Recovery

-- B y   J i l l i a n   B e r m a n   a n d   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-08-16T20:18:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/industrial-production-in-u-s-increased-0-9-in-july-the-most-this-year.html
Manufacturers in the U.S. churned
out more cars, computers and furniture in July, easing concern
that one of the mainstays of the recovery was giving way.  The 0.9 percent increase in production at factories, mines
and utilities was almost twice the median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News and the biggest gain of the year,
according to data today from the  Federal Reserve  in Washington.
Another report showed homebuilders cut back last month.  Part of the jump in manufacturing reflects a rebound from
the supply shock caused by the earthquake in  Japan , indicating
it will be difficult for factories to maintain this pace of
output as consumer spending and exports cool. At the same time,
companies have kept inventories lean, limiting the need for
large-scale cuts that could trigger an economic slump.  “Given some of the other negatives in the economy, I think
you still have to point to manufacturing as a bit of a bright
spot,” said  Stephen Stanley , chief economist at Pierpont
Securities LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , who correctly predicted
the gain. “It’s not great, but a decent outcome.”  Stocks fell on growing concern over economic growth in
 Europe . The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined 1 percent to
1,192.76 at the 4 p.m. close in New York.  Treasury securities 
rose, sending the yield on the benchmark 10-year note down to
2.22 percent from 2.31 percent late yesterday.  The median forecast of 85 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
projected a 0.5 percent rise in production for July. Estimates
ranged from gains of 0.1 percent to 1 percent.  Housing Slump  The residential real estate market is still struggling,
figures from the Commerce Department showed today. Housing
starts fell 1.5 percent to a 604,000 annual rate from June’s
613,000 pace that was less than previously estimated. Building
permits, a proxy for future construction, also dropped.  Falling sales, foreclosures and a lack of jobs may keep
delaying a rebound in homebuilding, depriving the world’s
largest economy of a source of strength seen in the early stages
of past recoveries. Concern over housing is prompting banks to
maintain strict mortgage lending rules and was one reason the
Fed said it would hold borrowing costs at a record low until at
least mid-2013.  “The housing market is still very depressed,” said
 Patrick Newport , an economist at IHS Global Insight in
Lexington,  Massachusetts . “Demand for new homes is extremely
weak and the foreclosure pipeline is still high. It’s because of
the weak economy, weak job growth and falling home prices.”  Auto Rebound  Output at factories, which account for about 75 percent of
industrial production, increased 0.6 percent last month, led by
gains at the nation’s automakers, the Fed’s report showed.  Production of automobiles and parts climbed 5.2 percent
last month, the first gain in four months and the biggest in a
year, as the industry rebounded from the supply chain
disruptions caused by the March earthquake in Japan, the Fed
report showed. Manufacturing excluding motor vehicles climbed
0.3 percent after a 0.2 percent gain in the prior month.  Deliveries at Detroit-based  General Motors Co. (GM)  climbed 7.6
percent in July from the same month in 2010.  “Although the economy has clearly lost some momentum, we
do believe that it will continue to recover, but more gradually
than we had originally anticipated as we move through the second
half of the year,”  Don Johnson , GM’s vice president of U.S.
sales said on an Aug. 2 conference call.  Taking Up Slack  Capacity utilization, which measures the amount of a plant
in use, increased to 77.5 percent, the highest since August
2008. The gauge compares with the average of 79.5 percent over
the past 20 years.  Mining production, which includes oil drilling, rose 1.1
percent after a 1.2 percent gain. Utility output increased 2.8
percent, the most this year, as temperatures soared across the
U.S. Texas and  Oklahoma  set record-high average temperatures for
the month, according to the National Climatic Data Center. July
was “above normal” or “much above normal” in 41 of the 48
contiguous U.S. states, it said.  A report yesterday raised the risk that the acceleration
will be short-lived. Manufacturing in the region covered by the
Federal Reserve Bank of  New York , shrank in August for the third
consecutive month, the central bank reported yesterday. In
addition, the  Institute for Supply Management ’s manufacturing
index signaled that manufacturing almost stalled in July as
orders dropped for the first time since the last recession ended
in June 2009.  The declines in the ISM indexes “suggest that
manufacturers have yet to feel the full force of the recent
global slowdown,” said  Paul Dales , a senior U.S. economist at
Capital Economics Ltd. in Toronto. “While we still think that
another recession will be avoided, economic growth will remain
anemic.”  Finally today, a report from the Labor Department showed
prices of goods imported into the U.S. rose in July, led by
gains in costs of fuel, industrial supplies and clothing. Prices
excluding petroleum rose 0.2 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jillian Berman in  Washington  at 
 jberman13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  