-- 
Linkers Dropping Most Since Lehman Show Deflation Deepening: Japan Credit

-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 
2011-08-17T06:48:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/linkers-dropping-most-since-lehman-show-deflation-deepening-japan-credit.html
Japan ’s inflation-linked bonds are
poised for a second monthly decline as the stronger yen
exacerbates deflationary pressure on an economy still reeling
from a record earthquake and a nuclear crisis.  Securities that reflect the outlook for consumer prices
have handed investors a 0.02 percent loss in August, an index
compiled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch shows, set for the
first two-month slide since November 2008 in the aftermath of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s collapse. By comparison, U.S.
inflation-linked debt has increased 6.4 percent since the end of
June, while  Germany ’s has risen 3.3 percent.  The yen has recovered all losses against the dollar since
Japan sold its currency on Aug. 4 for the third time in a year,
re-approaching a postwar record set in March. A gauge of price
trends known as the deflator fell in the second quarter by the
most in more than a year, data showed this week, adding to
evidence the stronger currency is deepening deflationary
pressures that have gripped the country for more than a decade.  “I expect linkers to continue to slump,” said  Takeshi Minami , chief economist in Tokyo at Norinchukin Research
Institute Co., a unit of Norinchukin Bank, which has $920
billion in assets. “The yen’s appreciation counters rising
prices on commodities and adds to downward pressure on the
domestic economy by hurting exporters’ earnings, so it has
negative influence over consumer prices.”  Consumer Prices  Japan’s economy shrank at a 1.3 percent annual pace in the
three months through June, the third-straight quarter of
contraction, the Cabinet Office said on Aug. 15. The deflator
dropped 2.2 percent in the period from a year earlier, more than
the median estimate of economists for a 1.7 percent decrease.  Deflation, or a general drop in prices, boosts the value of
fixed payments from debt. The so-called breakeven rate, or the
difference between yields on five-year notes and inflation-
linked debt, fell to negative 0.48 percentage points on Aug. 9,
the least since April 7, and was negative 0.44 percentage points
today. That compared with a positive 1.70 percentage points in
the U.S.  Japan’s statistics bureau will change the base year to 2010
from 2005 for the computation of consumer prices starting with
July data that’s due for release Aug. 26.  Consumer prices excluding fresh food probably fell 0.3
percent last month, according to estimates by Norinchukin’s
Minami.  Yen’s Appreciation  “Expectations for inflation have barely risen in Japan,”
said Hiroto Kuwahara, chief quantitative analyst at Mitsubishi
UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co. in  Tokyo , one of the 25
primary dealers obliged to bid at government debt sales.
“Accordingly, demand for linkers is stagnant.”  The yen traded as strong as 76.61 per dollar in Tokyo
today, compared with as weak as 80.24 on Aug. 4 when Japan
unilaterally sold its currency. It hit a record 76.25 on March
17 amid speculation Japanese companies would repatriate assets
to cope with earthquake and tsunami-related damages. The yen
returned to those levels this month as investors sought a refuge
from debt crises in the U.S. and  Europe .  Japan’s bonds climbed today, with 20-year yields sliding
three basis points to 1.82 percent as of 3:09 p.m. in Tokyo.
Ten-year bonds yielded 1.02 percent, or 0.82 percentage points
more than the growth rate of consumer prices. The so-called real
yield on similar-maturity  U.S. debt  was a negative 1.34
percentage points.  ‘Vicious Cycle’  “There is a vicious cycle of the yen appreciation and
deflation,” said  Masafumi Yamamoto , chief currency strategist
at Barclays Bank Plc in Tokyo. “A stronger yen definitely could
create deflationary pressure. Higher Japanese real yields are
supportive for the yen at the same time, which will likely
strengthen to 75 per dollar over the next month.”  A re-emergence of deflation and the yen’s strength may
prompt the  Bank of Japan  to ease policy further. The BOJ
expanded an asset-purchase fund, which buys securities ranging
from  government bonds  to corporate debt to stock funds, by 5
trillion yen ($65 billion) on Aug. 4 to total 15 trillion yen.  “Depending on foreign-exchange rates, the economic outlook
and most of all consumer prices, pressure on the BOJ for
additional easing will certainly increase,” said Shuji Tonouchi, a senior fixed-income strategist in Tokyo at
Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  