-- 
Insight Debt May Get 7-Step S&P Upgrade on Time Warner Purchase

-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 
2011-08-16T19:20:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/insight-debt-may-get-7-step-s-p-upgrade-on-time-warner-purchase.html
Bonds of Insight Communications Co.,
the cable-television operator being purchased by  Time Warner
Cable Inc. (TWC) , may get a seven-level upgrade from  Standard & Poor’s 
if the debt remains outstanding after the acquisition.  S&P expects to raise the B- grade on the company’s $495
million of 9.375 percent senior notes maturing in 2018 to match
Time Warner Cable’s BBB if the debt remains outstanding,
analysts Michael Senno and Richard Siderman wrote in a note
today. The notes were placed on “CreditWatch” with positive
implications because it’s not clear if Time Warner Cable will
refinance the securities, the analysts wrote.  Insight’s debt is the top performer in Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s US High Yield Master II Index in August, gaining
at least 5 percent in the worst month for speculative-grade
bonds since November 2008. Time Warner Cable, the second-largest
U.S. cable-television operator, agreed to buy New York-based
Insight for $3 billion in cash to gain customers in the Midwest,
according to a statement yesterday.  The companies expect to complete the transaction in the
first half of 2012, S&P said.  Moody’s Investors Service also said it may boost Insight’s
credit rating, according to a note yesterday. The company has a
B3 grade on the bonds, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The review of Insight’s ratings will focus on Time
Warner’s plans regarding the existing Insight debt,” Moody’s
analysts Gerald Granovsky and John Diaz wrote in the note.
“Should the debt be unconditionally and irrevocably guaranteed
or legally assumed, the ratings will likely be upgraded. If the
debt is repaid, Moody’s will withdraw Insight’s ratings.”  Issue Price  Insight issued $400 million of the bonds at 105.75 cents on
the dollar to yield 6.25 percentage points more than similar-
maturity Treasuries in June 2010, and then offered more of the
securities later that year, Bloomberg data show.  The bonds traded yesterday at 115 cents on the dollar at a
spread of 364.7 basis points, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  High-yield, high-risk, or junk, debt has lost 3.99 percent
this month, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.
Speculative-grade debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s and lower
than BBB- by S&P.  Private-equity firm  Carlyle Group  and co-founders Sidney Knafel and Michael Willner took Insight private in 2005.
Crestview Partners and MidOcean Partners, bought a stake in
Insight from Carlyle and other shareholders last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  