-- 
Hippie, Shorty Fire Up Debut Play; ‘Enter Laughing’ Sag Harbor

-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 
2011-08-16T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/hippie-shorty-fire-up-the-talls-enter-laughing-in-sag-harbor-review.html
A long-legged hippie who shuns bacon
and bras, Isabelle Clarke is the valedictorian of her Oakland,
California, high school, bound for  Brown University .  She’s home alone when a chipper young campaign manager
helping her dad’s bid for city comptroller comes calling.
Russell James seems to be a square careerist, short of stature,
but he’s brainy with nice sideburns. Hormones do the rest.  Set in 1970, “ The Talls”  at  Second Stage Theatre  is the
funny off-Broadway debut of playwright  Anna Kerrigan . Its 80
minutes fly by and leave you with plenty to chew on, including
how much responsibility an eldest child should shoulder when
parents are distracted or remote.  The action takes place in the Clarkes’ cozy suburban living
room, a set designed by Dane Laffrey with family photos and a
wooden tennis racket in a corner.  Like any family, this Catholic clan has secrets, one of
which is revealed when mom (Christa Scott-Reed) falls apart
after a family friend is hit by a bus.  As directed by Carolyn Cantor, the actors shine. Shannon
Esper is delightful as Isabelle. Gerard Canonico is a perfect
Russell, her sexual-awakening collaborator. (Fittingly, he
appeared on Broadway in “Spring Awakening.”) Timothee Chalamet
is slyly appealing as 12-year-old Nicholas Clarke, who spies on
his sister’s surreptitious sinning.  Through Sept. 11 at 2162 Broadway at 76th St. Information:
+1-212-246-4422, or  http://www.2st.com/plays/tickets/200/ .
Rating: ***  ‘Enter Laughing’  During the Great Depression, young David Kolowitz (a
charming Josh Grisetti) dreams of becoming a star of the stage,
even though he doesn’t seem to have read or seen a play. In
“Enter Laughing: The Musical” at Bay Street Theatre in Sag
Harbor, he enrolls in the Marlowe Free Theatre and School for
Dramatic Arts, calling himself Donald Colman, after his hero
Ronald Colman.  In one of the funnier bits, David begins a rehearsal
proclaiming, “Enter laughing,” clueless that stage cues aren’t
to be recited. His ignorance drives director Harrison Marlowe
(Richard Kind) to distraction and to drink.  Under the name “So Long, 174th Street,” the show played
16 performances on Broadway in 1976. Director Stuart Ross
resurrected it, first at off-Broadway’s York Theatre in 2008 and
now on  Long Island , and the old-fashioned musical has its
moments.  Top Talent  Its provenance is impressive. The book is by Joseph Stein
(“Fiddler on the Roof”), based on his 1963 play, which in turn
was adapted from a 1958 semi-autobiographical novel by Carl Reiner. The songs by Stan Daniels are a liability, though. Each
one takes a silly joke and bludgeons it to death.  An exception is “Hot Cha Cha,” performed gallantly by
David’s boss (Ray DeMattis) and father (Michael Tucker).
Tucker’s real-life wife, Jill Eikenberry, also from television’s
“L.A. Law,” plays against type as David’s needling mother,
wearing a dreadful wig.  “Enter Laughing” seems ideal for nostalgic audiences at
regional theaters. A Bay Street press release says it’s
Broadway-bound. Here’s hoping investors will exit laughing.  Through Sept. 4 at 1 Bay Street, Sag Harbor. Information:
+1-631-725-9500, or  http://www.baystreet.org . Rating: * 1/2  (Philip Boroff is a writer for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Philip Boroff in  New York  at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 