-- 
Lira Falls on Central-Bank Rate Outlook, European Growth Concern

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k   a n d   M a r k   B e n t l e y
-- 
2011-08-16T15:16:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/lira-declines-for-first-day-in-three-after-german-economy-almost-stalled.html
The lira fell for the first day in
three on bets the central bank will keep rates at a record low
and as  Germany ’s economy almost stalled, adding to concern of
recession in the European Union, Turkey’s biggest export market.  The lira depreciated 0.6 percent to 1.7765 per dollar at
5:28 p.m. in Istanbul, bringing its drop over the past month to
7 percent, making it the worst-performing emerging-market
currency among more than 20 tracked by Bloomberg. Yields on two-
year benchmark bonds declined 15 basis points, or 0.15
percentage point, to 7.96 percent, according to a Turk Ekonomi
Bankasi AS index of the securities, closing at the lowest level
since Jan. 27.  Germany’s gross domestic product, adjusted for seasonal
effects, rose 0.1 percent from the first quarter, when it jumped
a revised 1.3 percent, the Federal Statistics Office in
Wiesbaden said today. Economists had forecast growth of 0.5
percent, according to the median of 33 estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey.  “The second-quarter figures disappointed with a lower
reading, and as Germany is one of the largest trading partners
of  Turkey , this certainly does not bode well,” Thu Lan Nguyen,
a currency strategist at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt , said in e-
mailed comments.  The lira was the worst performer among 178 currencies
tracked by Bloomberg so far in the second half of the year. It
headed for a record low against the equally weighted euro and
dollar basket and last traded 0.3 percent down at 2.167.  Record-Low Rate  “The lira continues to underperform peer emerging-market
currencies and we expect the currency to remain under pressure
on the back of the central bank’s policy to keep rates low,”
BNP Paribas SA wrote in an e-mailed report to clients today.  Turkey’s central bank cut its key one-week repo rate by 50
basis points to a record low of 5.75 percent at an emergency
meeting this month, citing concern that the economic slowdown in
 Europe  is spreading to Turkey. Exports grew 19 percent in June,
less than half the pace of imports, widening the trade deficit
to a record.  The central bank sold $100 million of foreign currency to
banks for a third day, raising the total sold in the eight
auctions held so far to $590 million. The bank in Ankara got
$251 million of bids, the most since auctions started on Aug 5.  Akbank TAS, the lender part-owned by Citigroup Inc., is
monitoring sales abroad by its corporate clients after the debt
crisis in Europe deepened, Chairwoman Suzan Sabanci Dincer said
in an interview in Istanbul yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  