-- 
Iranian-Backed Militias Pose Top Threat to Iraq, General Says

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-08-17T04:01:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/iranian-backed-militants-pose-main-threat-to-iraq-after-attacks-u-s-says.html
Iranian-backed militant groups pose
a bigger and more long-term threat to  Iraq  than an al-Qaeda
affiliate that this week killed more than 60 people in one day,
U.S. Army Major General Jeffrey Buchanan said.  The Aug. 15 attacks, the most in a single day this year,
fit the pattern of assaults by al-Qaeda in Iraq, a Sunni
militant group, said Buchanan, the top spokesman for U.S.
Forces-Iraq, during a forum with the Pentagon Press Association
at the Defense Department outside Washington yesterday.  Still, the group doesn’t have the kind of institutional
domestic and foreign support that drives the Iranian-backed
Shiite militants responsible for killing 14 American soldiers
and one U.S. civilian in June, he said. The Shiite groups are
larger, have domestic political ties and get direct support from
the  Iran ’s Revolutionary Guard Corps’s Quds Force, Buchanan
said.  “Al-Qaeda in Iraq doesn’t represent the existential threat
to the government of Iraq that it once did,” he said, citing
the swaths of territory the group controlled in Anbar, Diyala
and other provinces during 2005 and 2006. “They are still
capable and will continue, from time to time, to rear their ugly
head and conduct very terrible, vicious attacks.”  The threats work into the calculations by the Iraqi
government and the Obama administration on whether to keep a
residual American force in the country after the remaining
47,000 U.S. troops are due to withdraw in December. Iraqi
officials have said they will open discussions with the U.S. to
continue training and other support.  Developing Options  The U.S. military is developing options in case of a
request, based on statements made by Iraqi leaders in the past
about what they think their needs are, Buchanan said.  The leaders have cited continuing needs such as training on
military equipment they are buying, maritime defense and ability
to defend their air space and secure their borders against
conventional threats.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , in a joint appearance
with Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta , said yesterday she doesn’t
think the Iraqis plan to ask for any kind of U.S. combat role.  “Their main goal right now is to get the kind of training
that will allow them to improve their defense capability,”
Panetta said in the televised forum for  CNN  at the National
Defense University in Washington.  This week’s al-Qaeda attacks are similar to a rash of
assaults the group staged at this point in the Muslim holiday of
Ramadan last year, Buchanan said. The group remains dangerous
and continues its attempts to overthrow the government and
install a Salafist caliphate, he said. At least 63 people were
killed in 17 cities, the  Associated Press  reported.  Daily Attacks  Still, the number of daily attacks continues to fall,
Buchanan said. This year, the number of security incidents has
fallen to an average of 14 a day, including attacks on
civilians, Iraqi forces and U.S. troops, compared with 20 in
2009, 49 in 2008 and 145 a day at the peak in 2007.  The U.S. also doesn’t see any connection between Iran and
al-Qaeda in Iraq, Buchanan said.  “In the big scheme of things, Iraqi security forces have
done a fairly credible job maintaining security throughout the
country” since the U.S. handed off lead responsibility last
September, he said. Built from zero in 2003, they are now “the
most capable counter-insurgency force in the region,” he said.  U.S. and Iraqi forces have been “very, very successful”
in eroding the power of al-Qaeda in Iraq, even as the group
demonstrates a “pretty surprising” ability to regenerate
leaders who are “no less committed” than their predecessors,
Buchanan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in  Washington  at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net . 