-- 
Misrata, Once Besieged, Relaxes as Libyan Rebels Advance Against Qaddafi

-- B y   C h r i s   S t e p h e n
-- 
2011-08-16T21:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/misrata-once-besieged-relaxes-as-libyan-rebels-advance-against-qaddafi.html
Libya ’s rebel-held city of Misrata,
under siege by forces loyal to  Muammar Qaddafi  for the past six
months, is experiencing something new: traffic jams.  With rebels advancing toward the Libyan capital, Tripoli,
about 100 miles (160 kilometers) to the west, honking horns and
the voices of children playing in Misrata’s streets have
replaced the explosions of incoming rockets and artillery
shells.  “We are confident we are safe now,” English student Aisha
Alifafer, 20, said in an interview yesterday. “We can go
shopping and visit others. In the last six months we could not
go outside and see the sun.”  The conflict in Libya entered its sixth month today with
the rebels claiming advances on the battlefield after several
weeks of stalemate. Qaddafi, who seized power in the oil-rich
North African nation in a military coup in 1969, controls
Tripoli and has told his followers to keep fighting even as the
leader appears to be losing ground.  Rebel forces reached the nearby town of Tawarga to the east
over the weekend, pushing government Grad missile launchers out
of range and ending nightly attacks on downtown Misrata. In the
west, opposition forces claim to be inside Zawiya, 35 miles from
Tripoli.  Fighting continues to rage west of the town, with a daily
rumble of gunfire from the front line, as rebel units struggle
to capture Zlitan, an obstacle to a planned advance along the
coastal highway to Tripoli.  “We feel good,” Mohammed Elfeturi, 35, a former oil
engineer who is a fighter with the rebel Faisal brigade, said as
he and his comrades broke the Ramadan fast at an outdoor café at
sundown. “We have some success.”  NATO Airstrikes  Another fighter, Farouk Arifay, 20, credited airstrikes by
the  North Atlantic Treaty Organization  for helping to weaken
Qaddafi’s forces. In the nine days to Aug. 15, NATO claimed on
its website to have destroyed 179 government military targets.  “We have to thank NATO,” he says. “NATO has been hitting
their weapons day after day.”  Popular viewing in Misrata is the repeated screening on
Libyan state television of Qaddafi’s Aug. 14 speech in which he
said that “the blood of martyrs is fuel for the battle.”
Another report said government troops are making gains and have
taken two-thirds of Misrata.  “The television of Qaddafi is saying things that are
desperate, hysterical,” said former Libyan diplomat Abdulrahman
Ben-Naser, who returned from 26 years of exile to his home town
last month.  Qaddafi “is finished,” said Mahmoud Abushaala, owner of
a city photographic shop. “In any war, the one who has the air
and the ground is the one who is going to win.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Stephen in Misrata through the Dubai newsroom at 
   barden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 