-- 
Israel-Lebanon Oil Dispute Must Be Stopped Short of War: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-08-16T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/israel-lebanon-oil-dispute-must-be-stopped-short-of-war-view.html
The chance of armed conflict between
 Israel  and Hezbollah is increasing. Renewed hostilities would be
disastrous for all involved, so the U.S. and its allies need to
act now to prevent events from spinning out of control.  Energy companies say that large oil and gas reserves might
lie off the Israeli and Lebanese coasts. The countries’ maritime
border is undefined, and each nation says the possible energy
deposits are within its exclusive economic zone.  Hezbollah , the
Lebanese terrorist group, may use this dispute as an excuse to
provoke a conflict and reassert its claim to be the one Arab
entity willing and able to confront Israel. In a July 26 speech,
Hezbollah leader  Hassan Nasrallah  warned Israel not to “steal”
Lebanon’s resources. Israel has vowed to protect the gas fields.  Hezbollah was founded in 1982 by the Iranian and Syrian
intelligence services to serve as their proxy against Israel and
the U.S., and to speak for Lebanon’s formerly marginalized
Shiite community. In the West, it is best known for bombing the
U.S. and French barracks in  Beirut  in October 1983, kidnapping
Americans and Europeans in Lebanon during the 1980s, and
attacking a Jewish  community center  in  Argentina  in 1994.  But it is also the dominant party in the Lebanese coalition
government, giving Shiites an unprecedented amount of political
power. Regionally, Hezbollah was seen, even by non-Shiites, as
the resistance against Israel. Its popularity soared in 2000
when its military wing forced Israel to end its 18-year
occupation of parts of southern Lebanon, and then again in 2006
when it fought Israel to a draw during a monthlong war. This
gave Hezbollah a record of military success that was unique
among Arab armies.  But Hezbollah has reasons to worry. Almost all of its
sophisticated weapons, including the long- and medium-range
missiles it uses to threaten Israel, enter Lebanon through
 Syria . Hezbollah is closely associated with Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad. Although Hezbollah’s spokesman has denied that
it helped Syria’s security services crack down on Assad’s
opponents, some anti-government protesters have burned Hezbollah
flags during demonstrations.  Hezbollah’s ties to Assad have made it look retrograde in
the eyes of young Arabs who are at the forefront of the Arab
Spring and who previously were most likely to admire Hezbollah’s
willingness to “stand up” to the U.S. and Israel. Assad’s fall
would be a disaster for Hezbollah, especially if a new Syrian
government were dominated by the strongly anti-Shiite Muslim
Brotherhood.  Hezbollah is also a victim of its own success. With Israel
now out of Lebanese territory, there is no longer anything to
resist, and many Lebanese question why Hezbollah has refused to
disarm. And with its Shiite constituency enjoying an
unprecedented degree of political influence and prosperity, they
have more to lose if Hezbollah provokes a confrontation with
Israel or Lebanon’s other confessional groups.  To add to Hezbollah’s troubles, the  United Nations Special
Tribunal for Lebanon , which is looking into the 2005
assassination of former Lebanese Prime Minister  Rafiq Hariri ,
has indicted four members of Hezbollah. The terrorist group has
refused to cooperate with the tribunal and won’t allow the
Lebanese government to assist the investigation. The tribunal’s
next step might be to try the four suspects in absentia, meaning
that details of the assassination and Hezbollah’s alleged role,
including any cooperation with the Syrian intelligence service,
would be made public.  Under these circumstances, Hezbollah might conclude that a
confrontation with Israel is the perfect way to divert attention
from its ties to the Assad regime and Hariri’s murder. Tension
with Israel could also serve Assad’s interests by taking the
focus off the brutal crackdown on his opponents. Some Israeli
leaders might see another round with Hezbollah as an opportunity
to make up for the inconclusive end to the 2006 war. Even if
neither Hezbollah nor Israel wants a full-scale conflict, there
is the possibility that a cycle of Hezbollah provocations and
Israeli military responses will escalate.  The last thing the U.S. and its allies want is another
crisis that would strengthen Hezbollah and its Syrian and
Iranian patrons, and further destabilize the  Middle East . The UN
is now examining each side’s claims on their maritime border and
will arbitrate between them. We would welcome a speedy decision.  There are a number of other options. Although the U.S. and
its European allies have very little leverage with Hezbollah,
they should encourage those who do, such as  Turkey , to warn
against provoking Israel. Western officials should also make
Lebanon, including Lebanese Shiites, aware that it would be the
big loser if there is a worsening crisis. The U.S. should also
try to dissuade Israel from falling into Hezbollah’s trap by
overreacting to a provocation.  We understand why President  Barack Obama  and his European
counterparts might be reluctant to get involved in Lebanon, but
a little preventive diplomacy would be worth it.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 