-- 
Israel Will Push for Mideast Peace Talks With Help of UN ‘Moral Minority’

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-08-16T18:28:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/israel-will-push-for-mideast-peace-talks-with-help-of-un-moral-minority-.html
Israel , anticipating a United
Nations vote to recognize Palestinian statehood next month, is
waging a global campaign for what its ambassador called a
“moral minority” to push for resumption of peace talks.  “We know we are not going to win this thing,” Ambassador
Ron Prosor said of the UN vote.  Prosor said Israel wants the minority of the UN’s 193
members that votes against recognition to tell the Palestinian
Authority to resume direct peace talks.  “We are talking to all the relevant countries, from all
our embassies abroad, and we here at the UN mission,” he told
reporters today at Israel’s mission to the UN.  “There are no quick fixes,” he said. “The whole world is
begging the Palestinians to go back to direct negotiations,
where the outcome of these negotiations would be an independent
Palestinian state.”  The  Palestinian Authority  will seek full UN membership in
September, Executive Committee member Ahmed Majdalani said on
Aug. 13. That would require  Security Council  approval, which the
U.S. would likely veto. The Palestinians would turn then to the
UN General Assembly, where the bid for recognition would require
only majority support, according to Prosor.  His analysis came before the Middle East Quartet, including
the UN, U.S., European Union and  Russia , issued a statement
saying it is “greatly concerned” by Israel’s recent
announcement of new housing construction in Ariel and East
Jerusalem.  Quartet Statement  “The Quartet reaffirms that unilateral action by either
party cannot prejudge the outcome of negotiations and will not
be recognized by the international community,” the statement
said. “ Jerusalem  in particular is one of the core issues that
must be resolved through negotiations between the parties, which
underscores the urgent need for the parties to resume serious
and substantive talks.”  Israeli-Palestinian peace talks stalled in September after
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu refused to extend a
construction freeze in West Bank settlements and Palestinians
said they wouldn’t resume talks without a full building halt.  Asked about the settlements, Prosor said they haven’t been
an obstacle to talks in the past and aren’t the major problem
now.  “We have shown that when we really want to do something,
settlements are not the major hurdle to peace,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner at the  United Nations  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  