-- 
Missing Toolboxes, Lost Men, Signal U.S. Woes: Jeffrey Goldberg

-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 
2011-08-16T00:00:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/missing-toolboxes-lost-men-signal-u-s-woes-jeffrey-goldberg.html
It was in the parking lot of the
United Auto Workers hall in Janesville,  Wisconsin , that I
learned, among other things, about the insufficiencies of my
toolbox.  I was visiting the UAW several years ago, to talk about
politics with some of its members. We were standing around a
Ford F-350 that belonged to a veteran  General Motors Co. (GM) 
assembly-line worker. A monstrous, gull-winged toolbox took up a
quarter of the truck’s bed. Its owner had two GM trucks, but his
decision to drive a Ford that day made him the target of amiable
mockery. A Toyota or a Honda in the lot would draw not insults
but vandals. I was told that local police would categorize
slashed tires on a Japanese car in a UAW lot as an act of God,
and leave it at that.  But about that toolbox. Its proud owner gave me the tour,
handing me tools I had never seen with names I had never heard.
I’m not a complete alien in these situations -- I’ve worked on a
farm and on a loading dock -- but this was an education. The box
must have cost $600, and the tools were doubtless worth
thousands.  He used the tools on the light-truck assembly line at GM’s
mammoth Janesville plant, and also for home repair and vehicle
fixes and carpentry. He could do anything with his hands, he
said. He was a high-school dropout, but his hands were geniuses.  Among the ‘Pinched’  I thought about this man when I heard, at the end of 2008,
that GM was shuttering the Janesville plant, and I thought about
him again as I read a compelling and disturbing new book about
the U.S. unemployment crisis called “ Pinched ,” by Don Peck.
(Peck is a colleague of mine at the Atlantic magazine, but I’m
not involved in his coverage of the economy.)  Peck  explains , with coolness and concision, the brutal new
realities faced by Americans without college degrees. And he
delivers a dystopian vision of a country in which the American
dream will soon be dead to the majority of its citizens.  He describes an already entrenched two-tiered U.S. economy.
The upper tier is populated by people without elaborate
toolboxes but with advanced degrees and superior analytical,
creative and interpersonal skills. These people congregate in
places like  Washington ,  Boston  and  San Francisco . They feel few,
if any, effects of the recession.  The lower tier is made up of people in places like Phoenix
and  Las Vegas  and Tampa,  Florida , who are educationally and even
dispositionally ill-equipped for a globalized economy. The
recession was a body blow to these people, of course, but they
are also suffering because of some longer-term and more
systematic problems, such as our neglect of our national
infrastructure (think of the jobs that would have been created
if we had taken care of our bridges, highways and airports over
the past 30 years), our long journey away from manufacturing,
and the painful consequences of increased automation and
globalization.  The Main Victims  The Janesville GM workers fell into this lower tier -- men
who may not have excelled at school but who knew how to make
things and fix things.  Men, in fact, are the main victims in this economy.
“Pinched” describes a downturn in which men with limited
education have suffered disproportionately, and perhaps
permanently.  About three-quarters of the 8 million jobs that disappeared
in 2008 and 2009 were held by men, and many industries dominated
by men, such as construction, were devastated. The economy now
needs nurses, not assembly-line workers. Men can and do work as
nurses, but many men -- and especially, Peck says, men who pride
themselves on the toughness of their jobs -- loathe the idea of
work in what they see as feminized fields. And they are
terrified by the thought of returning to the classroom. So what
do they do instead?  “They leave the workforce,” Peck told me. “In 1967, among
men with a high-school degree between the ages of 30 and 50, 97
percent had jobs. Today, it’s 76 percent. There are a lot of
guys who are just leaving the workforce.”  What happens next, of course, is disaster.  “When you have these communities where you have a lot of
people without much education, and all of a sudden the
construction and manufacturing jobs are lost, the guys don’t
know what to do, and the whole community changes,” Peck said.
“You have a very low marriage rate, but women still want to
have kids and do have kids. Couples just don’t stay together.”  He went on, “These men derive so much of their sense of
self-worth from their jobs, and that translates into happy
marriages, good family, strong churches and civic life, clean
streets, deep friendships, lower rates of domestic violence, far
less drinking and much more stability generally.”  Peck  points  to a survey from last year that found that, among
people unemployed for seven months or more, 46 percent said they
had become quick to anger; a majority said they tried to avoid
encountering friends and acquaintances; and 14 percent said they
had become substance abusers. Rates of out-of-wedlock births
that were once seen as socially catastrophic are now the norm in
some communities.  No Easy Fixes  Peck prescribes some fixes for these problems, but none of
them will be easy. In particular, he calls for a second
stimulus, one that focuses heavily on public works projects, the
sort of work that would draw brigades of toolbox owners. In the
longer run, he says, the country needs to carve a path to the
middle class that doesn’t rely on a four-year college degree --
we spend a great deal more money on college aid and loans than
we do on vocational and retraining programs, though only about
30 percent of Americans have degrees.  Overall, he makes a compelling case that the most pressing
problem the U.S. faces is not the bloated national debt, but the
hollowing of the middle class.  “We’re talking about the disappearance of the American
idea,” he said. “We are not bound by common ethnicity or
religion, we’re bound together by optimism and the sense that
everyone can get ahead if they apply themselves. That is what is
being lost, right now.”  I spent some time on the phone last week looking for a couple
of workers I had met in Janesville. The fellow with the toolbox,
as far as I can tell, moved to  Arizona  after the plant closed.
Perhaps he will move back: GM is considering expanding domestic
operations, and the UAW is pressing the company to restart the
Janesville line. In its desperation, the union has offered
significant wage concessions, telling the company it would be
willing to see some new workers paid $14 an hour.  That’s half what a typical Janesville plant worker earned
before the shutdown. It’s enough to put food on the table. But
$14 an hour is not a wage that sustains a middle class, or that
buttresses a skilled worker’s self-worth.  It is, ultimately, a reminder that some dreams are no longer
attainable.  (Jeffrey Goldberg is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
national correspondent for the Atlantic. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
 Jeffrey Goldberg  at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 