-- 
Italian Utilities Fall After Berlusconi Increases Tax Rates

-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 
2011-08-16T15:51:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/italian-utilities-fall-after-berlusconi-increases-tax-rates-in-budget-plan.html
Enel SpA (ENEL) ,  Terna Rete Elettrica
Nazionale SpA (TRN)  and  Snam Rete Gas SpA (SRG)  fell in Milan trading after
a government austerity package raised tax rates on utilities.  Enel,  Italy ’s largest power producer, retreated 15 cents,
or 4.3 percent, to 3.47 euros. Power grid operator Terna dropped
by a record 14 percent and natural gas distributor Snam fell 9.9
percent, the most in five years years. Utilities were the
biggest decliners in Milan today.  A law approved on the weekend raised a tax on power
generators to 10.5 percent from 6.5 percent and extended the
levy to distribution and transmission companies. The changes
will net Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s government 1.8
billion euros ($2.6 billion) in 2012 and 900 million euros the
following two years, according to  UniCredit SpA. (UCG)   “The financial crisis helps the government in finding the
rationale to increase the tax burden, especially in sectors
considered to be cash cows, as the energy one,” UniCredit
analyst Luigi Monica said in a note to investors today.  Snam and Terna will bear the brunt of the new levies,
Monica said. Enel will suffer less because of its business
outside Italy, the analyst said.  The tax may reduce earnings per share for Italian
integrated utilities as much as 7 percent, according to Credit
Agricole Cheuvreux’s Francesca Pezzoli. For Snam and Terna,
earnings per share may drop by as much as 15 percent, she said.  The levy will increase costs by about 150 million euros
annually for fiscal years 2011, 2012 and 2013, Snam said in a
statement today. The company reconfirmed its dividend policy.  Struggling to balance the budget and trying to convince
investors that Italy can tame the region’s second-biggest debt,
Berlusconi’s Cabinet approved 45.5 billion euros in deficit
cuts. The plan will raise the capital gains tax, increase levies
on the highest earners, cut  government spending  and reduce
funding to regional administrations. It must be approved by
parliament within 60 days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  