-- 
Hitler, Astor Millionaire Drooled Over Hot Paris Divas: Review

-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 
2011-08-16T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/hitler-astor-millionaire-drooled-over-hot-paris-divas-jorg-von-uthmann.html
Hitler was smitten with her.
“Madame,” he said, “you are a seductress.”  The Fuhrer wasn’t the only admirer of Germaine Lubin. Star
tenor Lauritz Melchior claimed that he had “never awoken a more
beautiful Brunnhilde in my long career as a Wagner singer. I
remember especially that she was the only Brunnhilde who had
wonderfully painted toe nails.”  Lubin was also the most tragic of the 40 or so divas feted
at the  Palais Garnier  in Paris in an exhibition called “Les
Tragediennes de l’Opera 1875-1939.”  After the war, she was accused of collaboration with the
enemy and imprisoned for three years. Her Paris apartment and
country chateau were confiscated, and her career ended.  Many of the names in the exhibition, which brings together
photographs, costumes, jewelry and a few films, will be known to
record collectors.  Mary Garden, the first Melisande (in Debussy’s “Pelleas et
Melisande”) also appears as Strauss’s Salome, a role in which
she shocked the audience: Her lascivious kissing of John the
Baptist’s severed head outraged the bien-pensants. In the photo,
she looks more perplexed than perverted.  Genevieve Vix, another Salome, seems closer to the real
thing. Her come-hither look is convincing, and her flesh-
revealing dress would pass muster at the  Folies Bergere .  Lina Cavalieri actually sang and danced at that music hall
before she became an opera star. She was renowned more for her
beauty than for her voice. In the show, you can watch a 1928
short “Institut de Beaute Avec Lina Cavalieri.”  Astor Conquest  One of her numerous conquests was the New York millionaire
Robert Winthrop Chanler from the Astor clan. After a terrible
week of married life, he divorced her, which cost him a chunk of
his fortune. Cavalieri, who had sung at the  Metropolitan Opera ,
was never invited back.  Appropriately, the show also includes a photograph of her
as Thais, Massenet’s Egyptian courtesan.  The composer wrote that role for Sybil Sanderson, a
glamorous Californian, with whom he was infatuated. In the
photo, she looks more like the monk she’s supposed to seduce.  A pastel of Emma Calve, the greatest Carmen of her time, is
more persuasive. George Bernard Shaw was so overwhelmed that he
needed a week “before I can trust myself to speak of her Carmen
and her Santuzza or indeed of herself with a decent pretense of
critical coolness.”  Sanderson is not the only American in the show. Emma Eames
and Geraldine Farrar made their names in  Europe  before they
became prima donnas at the  Metropolitan Opera .  “Les Tragediennes de l’Opera 1875-1939,” which is
supported by Ernst & Young, is at the museum of the Palais
Garnier in Paris through Sept. 25. A sumptuous catalog has been
published by Editions Albin Michel SA (49 euros or $74.30).
Information:  http://www.operadeparis.fr .  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at  mbeech@bloomberg.net  or. 