-- 
News Corp. Editors Had Been Aware of Phone Hacking Since ’07, Goodman Says

-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n ,   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-08-16T19:25:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/james-murdoch-may-face-more-questions-by-lawmakers-in-phone-hacking-probe.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s editors at the News of
the World Sunday tabloid discussed phone hacking in daily
meetings, a former reporter said, increasing pressure on
executives to explain when they became aware of the practice.  Phone hacking was “widely discussed in the daily editorial
conference” until “explicit reference to it was banned by the
editor,” former royal reporter  Clive Goodman  said in a March
2007 letter to top News International executives that was
 published  by U.K. lawmakers today. News Corp. deputy Chief
Operating Officer James Murdoch will probably be recalled to
parliament to answer more questions about the allegations at the
now-defunct tabloid.  Murdoch told lawmakers last month that he hadn’t realized
until late 2010 that phone hacking was widespread at the News of
the World. That’s been contradicted by Tom Crone and  Colin Myler , two former executives of the tabloid, who said they
informed him in 2008 about an e-mail that suggested more
reporters had been involved. The Culture, Media and Sport
Committee today examined fresh responses from former employees
to explain contradictions in Murdoch’s testimony.  “Once he answered questions, he would inevitably seek to
blame underlings,” said David Corker of the London law firm
Corker Binning, who acts for clients implicated in regulatory
and criminal investigations. “Now he’s facing a welter of new
evidence from those underlings.”  Deleted Messages  Goodman, who was sentenced for phone hacking in January
2007, said he was promised a job in return for staying quiet.  News Corp. shut the News of the World last month after a
report that its journalists deleted messages from a murdered
schoolgirl’s mobile phone. The tabloid was also accused of
hacking into voicemails from terror victims, celebrities, 
sports athletes and politicians.  "We recognize the seriousness of materials disclosed to the
police and parliament and are committed to working in a
constructive and open way with all the relevant authorities,"
News International said today in an e-mailed statement. A
management and standards committee set up in July is cooperating
fully with the police investigation, the company reiterated.  Goodman once reported on the royal family for News of the
World.  Les Hinton , then the executive chairman of parent company
News International, fired Goodman in February 2007 after he
pleaded guilty to hacking for “very serious breach of your
obligations as an employee,” according to the dismissal letter
published today.  Private investigator  Glenn Mulcaire , who helped Goodman
carry out the voicemail interception, was also jailed.  Payments  Goodman disputed his dismissal, saying that his hacking was
carried out in the knowledge of his superiors at the company and
that tapped voicemails were the subject of discussions at
editorial meetings.  He said he was promised “on many occasions” that “I
could come back to a job at the newspaper if I did not implicate
the paper or any of its staff in my mitigation plea” in a
letter to News International’s former director of human
resources Daniel Cloke.  Goodman was ultimately paid 243,503.08 pounds
($399,903.47), in connection with his dismissal and the unfair
dismissal claim he filed. About 13,000 pounds went to legal
fees, according to  James Murdoch ’s letter to parliament.
Mulcaire’s lawyers were paid 246,000 pounds as part of an
agreement to cover his legal fees, which was formally terminated
last month.  Internal Probe  New York-based News Corp. rose 1.1 percent to $17.10 at
3:08 p.m. in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have fallen
about 5 percent since news of the phone-hacking scandal broke
July 4.  James Murdoch joined News International as chairman in
December 2007, after the alleged hacking took place.  News Corp. hired law firm Harbottle & Lewis to look into
Goodman’s accusations that hacking was widely known about within
the company. The firm looked into six e-mail addresses and found
no evidence that their owners participated in hacking, according
to correspondence published by parliament.  News Corp. and Harbottle & Lewis, which filed copies of
Goodman’s letter to parliament, said they were asked to redact
some details by the police. Goodman made no submission to the
parliamentary committee himself.  Goodman “made allegations that the whole editorial team at
the tabloid were involved in discussions around phone hacking at
the time that  Andy Coulson  was the editor of the paper,” Labour
Party lawmaker  Tom Watson  said today. “If accurate, the whole
foundation of the company’s defense for the past three years
collapses.”  Political Ties  Coulson, who was Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s director of
communications until he resigned in January over the hacking
scandal, was editor of the News of the World from 2003 to 2007.
Coulson was arrested this year.  Goodman’s March 2 letter to Cloke was also sent to Hinton.
Four days later, when asked whether he thought that Goodman was
the only one who knew what was going on, Hinton told lawmakers:
“I believe he was the only person.”  Hinton, who resigned as chief executive officer of News
Corp.’s Dow Jones & Co. unit in July, was chairman of News
International for 12 years until 2007, giving him a leading role
at the U.K. newspaper unit during the time when the alleged
hacking took place.  The circumstances surrounding the 2008 payment to victim
 Gordon Taylor , chief executive of the Professional Footballers’
Association, were also the focus of many lawmakers’ questions to
Murdoch.  ‘For Neville’  Murdoch says he was not told about any further hacking at
the company when he approved Taylor’s settlement in June 2008
and nothing was discussed that led him to believe that a further
investigation was necessary.  Murdoch has said he agreed to the payment -- more than 10
times the record court award in a privacy case at the time -- on
advice of outside counsel.  However, Crone, the former News International legal
manager, said the company decided to settle after Taylor’s
lawyer found an e-mail from a junior reporter toMulcaire, the
private investigator at the center of the phone-hacking
allegations. The e-mail contained a transcript of Taylor’s
voicemail messages. The e-mail was marked “for Neville.” At
the time of the message, the only Neville working at the tabloid
was chief reporter Neville Thurlbeck.  Murdoch has said he doesn’t recall seeing this letter.
Crone said he would have mentioned the letter and may not have
shown Murdoch a copy.  Dropped Bid  “He could use what I characterize as the prime ministerial
defense” Corker Binning’s Corker said. “He could say, ‘How can
I know everything? I must rely on my advisers.’’  Crone and Myler, its one-time editor, are likely to be
recalled in September to answer further questions, John Whittingdale, who chairs the committee, said today, adding that
James Murdoch would appear after Crone and Myler. The committee
won’t recall James’ father  Rupert Murdoch , the chief executive
officer of News Corp.  ‘‘What is plain is we are receiving accounts that are
completely different and contradict each other at various points
in a number of areas,” Whittingdale said.  As a result of the phone-hacking scandal, News Corp.
dropped its 7.8 billion-pound ($12.8 billion) takeover bid for
the 61 percent in U.K. pay-TV broadcaster  British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  that it doesn’t already own. If Murdoch
is found in contempt of parliament, his position as chairman of
BSkyB might also be in jeopardy, Damian Collins, one of the
lawmakers reviewing the statements today, said in an interview.  After his initial testimony, James Murdoch was supported by
the board of BSkyB, which last month unanimously backed him to
remain as chairman of the satellite television broadcaster.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  