-- 
Japanese, Australian Stock Futures Fall on Transaction-Tax Plan

-- B y   A k i k o   I k e d a   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 
2011-08-16T23:16:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/japanese-australian-stock-futures-fall-on-european-transaction-tax-plan.html
Japanese and Australian stock
futures fell as concern increased that a planned financial-
transaction tax in Europe will discourage investment and
threaten global economic growth.  American depositary receipts of  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial
Group Inc. (8306) , Japan’s largest bank by market value, lost 1.8
percent from the closing share price in Tokyo. Those of  Sony
Corp. (6758) , Japan’s biggest exporter of consumer electronics, dropped
0.8 percent as Europe’s economic growth trailed estimates and
U.S. housing starts slumped. ADRs of  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the
world’s largest mining company and Australia’s No. 1 oil
producer, declined 0.6 percent on lower commodity prices.  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average expiring in
September closed at 9,060 in Chicago yesterday compared with
9,070 in Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 9,050
in Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s S&P/ASX
200 Index slipped 0.1 percent today. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index
gained 0.2 percent in Wellington.  “A financial-transaction tax is a policy that deactivates
markets, so introduction of the tax will have a negative impact
on the stock market,” said  Hiroichi Nishi , an equities manager
in  Tokyo  at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. “There wasn’t much to
the meeting and it confirmed debt issues cannot be resolved in a
short period of time.”  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slid 0.4 percent
today. In New York, the index fell 1 percent to 1,192.76
yesterday as German and French leaders proposed a financial-
transaction tax and rejected selling euro bonds to halt a debt
crisis threatening economic growth.  European Growth  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  said they will press for closer euro-area
economic integration with tougher deficit rules and stricter
supervision to stamp out the debt crisis. Merkel and Sarkozy
rejected euro bonds and expanding the 440 billion-euro ($633
billion) rescue fund. They also proposed a plan to resubmit a
financial-transaction tax, which was rejected in 2010.  Gross domestic product in the 17-nation euro area expanded
0.2 percent in the second quarter from the previous three months,
when the economy grew 0.8 percent, the European Union’s
statistics office in Luxembourg said in a statement yesterday.
That’s the weakest growth since the euro region emerged from a
recession in late 2009 and was less that the 0.3 percent median
estimate of 34 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  In the U.S., housing starts fell 1.5 percent in July from
June, the Commerce Department reported yesterday. Building
permits, a proxy for future construction, also dropped.  “The U.S. housing numbers were not strong, and that
signals a slowdown in the  U.S. economy  may persist,” Nishi said.  Industrial Production   Another report showed industrial production in the U.S.
climbed in July by the most this year. The 0.9 percent increase
in output at factories, mines and utilities followed a revised
0.4 percent gain that was more the previously estimated, figures
from the  Federal Reserve  showed. Economists projected 0.5
percent growth in July, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 9.3 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with drops of 5.2 percent by the S&P
500 and 14 percent by the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index. Stocks in the
Asian benchmark are valued at 12.5 times estimated earnings on
average, compared with 12 times for the S&P 500 and 9.8 times
for the Stoxx 600.  Crude oil for September delivery declined 1.4 percent to
settle at $86.65 a barrel in New York yesterday. The London
Metal Exchange Index of prices for six industrial metals
including copper and aluminum dropped 0.5 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Akiko Ikeda in Tokyo at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 