-- 
JAL, Qantas Found Jetstar Japan as Low-Cost Rivalry Expands

-- B y   M i y u k i   S e g u c h i   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 
2011-08-16T09:21:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/japan-airlines-qantas-to-start-a-low-cost-carrier-in-japan.html
Japan Airlines Co. and the low-cost
unit of  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)  will start Jetstar Japan, the
country’s third new budget carrier announced this year, as
competition intensifies for low-fare travelers in  Asia .  JAL, Qantas and Mitsubishi Corp., Japan’s largest trading
group, will commit a total of 12 billion yen ($156 million) in
capital, according to an e-mailed statement from the Tokyo-based
airline. JAL and Qantas will own 42 percent each, with
Mitsubishi owning the rest, it said.  Jetstar Japan will start on domestic routes by the end of
2012 with a fleet of Airbus SAS A320 aircraft, targeting 100
billion yen in annual sales within a few years,  Bruce Buchanan ,
chief executive officer of Qantas’s Jetstar unit, told reporters
today in  Tokyo . Rival All Nippon Airways Co. is starting two
low-cost airlines serving Japan, while budget carriers  Spring
Airlines  and AirAsiaX have added flights to the country.  “There may be some competition between operating JAL, a
traditionally high-cost firm, and this low-cost joint venture,”
Minoru Matsuno, president of Value Search Asset Management Co.,
a Tokyo-based investment advisory firm, said in a telephone
interview today. Skymark Airlines Inc. and other low-cost
carriers operating in Japan won’t be affected much by the
competition from Jetstar Japan because they have “good know-how
and experience,” he said.  Generating Demand  Jetstar Japan, which said it may offer fares 40 percent
below current rates, expects to use the low-cost model to
increase the popularity of  air travel  and may add destinations
in  China , the Philippines and  South Korea  within a few years.  The venture “will broaden the spectrum of travelers as it
creates new demand in this market,” JAL President Masaru Onishi
said in the statement.  Jetstar Airways Pty, the Qantas budget unit that operates
domestic and overseas services, already flies between Australia
and Japan. Jetstar Japan will fly from Tokyo’s Narita airport
and Osaka’s Kansai International.  ANA’s low-cost venture,  Peach Aviation Ltd. , said it plans
to start domestic flights from Osaka  by March  and add service to
Seoul from May.  Tokyo-based ANA will also start a budget carrier called
AirAsia Japan with AirAsia Bhd., Asia’s biggest discount
carrier, with flights set to begin in August next year from a
hub at Narita. It will operate domestic and international
routes.  ‘Stronger Commitment’  “All Nippon Airways has a much stronger commitment to its
low-cost carrier business,”  Ryota Himeno , an analyst at
Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley said in a telephone interview
after today’s Jetstar  Japan  press conference. “At the moment we
are not able to tell who leads the newly launched company among
Japan Airlines, Qantas Group and Mitsubishi.”  Shanghai-based  Spring Airlines  started flights to Ibaraki
airport, an hour’s drive to the north of Tokyo’s Narita, last
year, while AirAsia X started flights to Haneda airport in
December.  JAL, which slashed routes and staff under  bankruptcy
protection , is increasing code-shares and tie-ups with other
airlines to boost its network.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Miyuki Seguchi in Tokyo at 
 mseguchi@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  