-- 
S&P’s Next Target Has Bob Marley on its Mind: William Pesek

-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 
2011-08-16T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/japan-s-troubles-will-vex-s-p-evoke-bob-marley-william-pesek.html
On a hot Friday evening in Osaka,
 Japan , street musician Jun Fukuda is channeling  Bob Marley  on a
downtown bridge. Not the feel-good, party-hearty Marley, but the
mortality-questioning ballad “Redemption Song.”  As the 20-year-old belts out the lyrics “emancipate
yourself from mental slavery” he scans the 20 or so Japanese
hipsters gathered around to be sure they’re getting the point.  “There is no future in Japan for people like me,” Fukuda
tells me, as a few of his buddies nod in agreement. “Our
leaders are useless, our economy is bad, there’s nuclear stuff
in my food. There is nothing out there for my generation.”  Herein lies Japan’s biggest problem as growth wanes,
deflation deepens and radiation leaks in Fukushima. Economists
predicting a recovery expect rebuilding after the March 11
earthquake and tsunami to drive growth the way it did in Kobe in
1995. Yet they ignore how the events of the last five months
shook the Japanese psyche in ways that bode poorly for the
world’s third-biggest economy.  Those “animal spirits” of which John Maynard Keynes spoke
are unpredictable things. What Japanese of all ages see is a
political culture overwhelmed by a combination of crisis,
generational change and forces of globalization. Their economy
has been overtaken by  China , and no one knows how to catch up.  They know Naoto Kan’s days are numbered, and that Japan,
perhaps by the end of August, will have its sixth prime minister
in five years. They realize no strong candidates are waiting in
the wings to put the country on a firmer footing.  Greater Uncertainty  All this means less household consumption in a nation that
even before March 11 was saving too much. It means less business
investment in an economy that was struggling before the ground
under the northeast Tohoku region shook and the seas rose. It
means greater uncertainty than Japan has seen in decades.  There’s still hope that the events of the last five months
will catalyze Japan to reinvent itself. Yet I haven’t found a
smidgen of evidence that real change is afoot.  Rather than taking steps to enliven growth, politicians
are, as usual, relying on the  Bank of Japan  to take the lead.
Instead of encouraging fresh alternative-energy research,
lawmakers are digging in to protect the primacy of nuclear
power. Bickering in Tokyo is delaying rebuilding efforts.  Is Tokyo looking anew at how to open its economy and create
growth via freer trade? Nope. Is it moving to address an aging
population by better using its female workforce or welcoming
more immigrants? Of course not. Are legislators looking for ways
to inspire growth with more innovative tax policies? Hardly. Are
regulators strengthening corporate governance to create a more
robust stock market? Definitely not.  Downgrade Looms  Neither bold thinking nor heavy lifting is in the DNA of
today’s Japanese leaders. There’s still no serious discussion of
an alternative to adding to a debt that’s more than twice the
size of the economy. With  Standard & Poor’s  yanking away the
U.S.’s AAA credit rating, Japan should brace for its own
downgrade. In January, S&P lowered Japan to AA-, the same level
as China’s. Imagine what being rated lower than a developing
nation would do to Japanese confidence.  The absence of new ideas can be seen in Japan’s recent
currency intervention. That ill-fated exercise was the handiwork
of Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda , who is tipped to replace
Kan. Noda doesn’t seem to understand what everyone else does --
that the yen is surging because of panic in global markets, not
because of anything going on in Japan.  Lost Generations  The yen will get even stronger as the dollar and euro lose
favor -- deal with it. The lack of vision in  Tokyo  is affecting
confidence as world events darken.  Hong Kong ’s slide toward
recession shows that things are about to get worse. Its export-
led economy is a highly reliable barometer of global growth.  We need to stop talking about Japan’s “lost decade” and
begin mulling lost generations. Even before Fukushima there was
the “Lehman shock,” a phrase that has great resonance among
Japanese who watched contagion rush from  Wall Street  to Tokyo in
the financial equivalent of a tsunami. Its effects were still
being felt on March 10. Japan’s economy was already contracting
and on the verge of its third decade of stagnation.  Forecasters have only begun to mull the countless knock-on
effects from nuclear reactors leaking radiation into the skies.
Ditto for Tokyoites fretting about the “Big One.”  The recent earthquake occurred along a different fault
line, making seismologists wonder if it was a foreshock that
affected pressure on the tectonic plates under Tokyo. A huge
“What if?” is now a permanent fixture of day-to-day life in
Tokyo, putting a damper on consumer and business spending.  Japan’s leaders have spent far too much energy in the past
decade preserving entrenched ways of doing things. It’s time for
economists and investors to emancipate themselves from their own
kind of mental slavery. Japan’s best hope of a strong rebound
will require fresh thinking about labor, energy, capital and the
role of government. The average 20-something Marley fan can tell
you that. Why can’t Japan’s leaders?  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in  Osaka  at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 