-- 
Japanese Stocks Rise Second Day as S&P Rally Boosts Investor Confidence

-- B y   A k i k o   I k e d a
-- 
2011-08-16T08:00:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/japan-s-stocks-rise-for-second-day-as-s-p-rally-boosts-investor-confidence.html
Japanese stocks rose for a second
day after the biggest three-day rally on the  Standard & Poor’s 
500 Index since 2009 boosted investor confidence following three
weeks of losses.  Sony Corp. (6758) , Japan’s biggest exporter of consumer
electronics, advanced 0.4 percent.  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058) , the
country’s largest trading house by market value, gained 0.7
percent as oil traded near its highest in two weeks.  Tokyo
Electric  Power Co. led declines among power companies after
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said uncertainty surrounding government
policy makes utilities a poor long-term investment.  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 0.2 percent to 9,107.43
at the 3 p.m. close in Tokyo. The broader Topix index gained 0.3
percent to 779.06. Volume on Japan’s biggest stock exchange was
lower than average in the middle of a traditional holiday period.  “Stocks will continue to rebound as long as sentiment
stabilizes,” said  Masaru Hamasaki , who helps oversee the
equivalent of $18 billion as chief strategist at Toyota Asset
Management Co. in Tokyo. “Even though Japanese stocks are very
cheap in terms of valuations, you could still see markets plunge
if we have some bad news that stirs up anxiety.”  The Topix lost 7.4 percent this month amid concern Europe’s
debt crisis will damage the banking system and damp demand in
one of Japan’s biggest export markets. Japanese stocks also fell
after Standard & Poor’s on Aug. 5 cut its rating on  U.S.
government debt .  Price-To-Book  Declines in Japanese shares this month reduced the average
price of stocks in the Topix to 0.91 times book value, the
lowest level since March 2009. A level below 1 means a company’s
assets are worth more than its market capitalization.  Yoshifumi Kikuchi, head of dealing at Nissan Century
Securities Co. in  Tokyo , said trading volume was light today
because of the O-bon holiday, a period starting Aug. 13 during
which many Japanese companies close for as long as a week and
people return to their hometowns. The value of shares traded on
the first section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange was about 24
percent less than this year’s daily average of 1.41 trillion yen.  Investors were also in “a wait-and-see mood” ahead of a
meeting between French President Nicolas Sarkozy and German
Chancellor Angela Merkel, Kikuchi said. The leaders of Europe’s
two largest economies will meet today in Paris to discuss
enforcement of European Union budget rules and expanded
coordination of national economies, according to French Finance
Minister  Francois Baroin .  France Hammered  Doubts over France’s AAA credit rating last week hammered
shares in the country’s banks and sent the risk premium of its
 government bonds  to a euro-era record.  Futures on the  S&P 500  slipped 0.8 percent today. The index
gained 2.2 percent yesterday in  New York , erasing last weeks’
drop, as valuations near the cheapest level in two years helped
extend the best three-day rally since March 2009.  Lower stock prices also contributed yesterday to a spate of
U.S. takeovers.  Google Inc. (GOOG) , the biggest maker of smartphone
software, agreed to buy Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. to
expand in the hardware business. The $12.5 billion acquisition
was Google’s largest yet. Time Warner Cable Inc. also agreed to
buy Carlyle Group’s Insight Communications Co. for $3 billion.  “Large-scale acquisitions are increasing in the U.S.,
indicating stocks are relatively cheap,” said  Fumiyuki Nakanishi , a strategist at Tokyo-based SMBC Friend Securities Co.
“There’s no doubt that Japanese stocks are cheap in terms of
valuations and the rebound will continue.”  Exporters Gain  Japanese exporters to the U.S. advanced. Sony gained 0.4
percent to 1,700 yen.  Canon Inc. (7751) , the world’s biggest camera
maker, rose 0.4 percent to 3,600 yen. Carmaker Nissan Motor Co.
added 0.6 percent to 720 yen.  Trading houses gained after the price of crude oil futures
increased 2.9 percent yesterday in New York. Mitsubishi rose 0.7
percent to 1,855 yen. Mitsui & Co., Japan’s second-largest
commodities trader, increased 0.6 percent to 1,314 yen.  Chemical maker  DIC Corp. (4631)  jumped 3.2 percent to 161 yen
after the Nikkei newspaper reported the company is teaming up
with the University of Tsukuba to develop technologies for mass
producing bio-fuel material out of algae.  Power companies declined after Goldman Sachs said utilities
are not attractive long-term investments because “the
visibility on policy is very poor.” Tokyo Electric dropped 3.2
percent to 425 yen. Kansai Electric Power Co., the nation’s
second-largest utility, fell 1.8 percent to 1,290 yen.  While Japan’s parliament on Aug. 3 approved state support
to help Tokyo Electric compensate victims of the Fukushima
disaster, many details of the plan, which calls for “cooperation
from shareholders and other interested parties,” remain unclear.  Trade Minister  Banri Kaieda  said he didn’t know how much
other utilities would be asked to contribute. Nuclear and
Industry Safety Agency spokesman Tatsuji Narita has said the
government isn’t providing an estimate for how many people will
be compensated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Akiko Ikeda in Tokyo at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 