-- 
JBS Posts Unexpected Second-Quarter Loss on Hedging Contracts, Cost Gains

-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i   a n d   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 
2011-08-16T15:53:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/jbs-reports-second-quarter-loss-on-higher-grain-costs-australian-dollar.html
JBS SA (JBSS3) , the world’s largest beef
producer, posted an unexpected second-quarter loss on
derivatives, rising costs and a stronger Australian dollar.  The net loss was 180.8 million reais ($114 million), or 7
centavos a share, compared with a profit of 3.7 million reais,
or less than 1 centavo, in the year earlier period, Sao Paulo-
based JBS said late yesterday. The company was expected to post
profit of 7 centavos a share excluding some items, the median
estimate of five analysts in a survey by Bloomberg.  The company, led by Chief Executive Officer Wesley Batista,
posted a financial loss of 591 million reais in the quarter,
from a loss of 539.8 million a year earlier, because of a
foreign exchange hedge position. A stronger Australian dollar
and rising grain costs also hurt earnings, the company said.  “JBS reported materially weaker second-quarter results,”
Fernando Ferreira, an analyst with Bank of America Merrill
Lynch, wrote in a note to clients today. “The company continues
to record material derivative mark-to-market losses,” said
Ferreira, who holds a “underperform” rating on the stock.  About 75 percent of sales are from JBS’s U.S. and Australia
units. The real gained 4.4 percent against the dollar in the
quarter, while the Australian dollar appreciated 3.8 percent.  Sales rose 3.6 percent to 14.6 billion reais from 14.1
billion reais a year earlier.  Improved Results  The company expects improved results in its  Pilgrim’s Pride
Corp. (PPC)  unit in the fourth quarter, CEO Batista told analysts
today on an earnings conference call.  JBS fell 12 centavos, or 2.8 percent, to 4.14 reais at
11:52 a.m. New York time in Sao Paulo trading today. The stock
has plunged 42 percent this year, compared with a 22 percent
decline in  Brazil ’s Bovespa index.  JBS is reducing production of chicken products in the U.S.
“to balance supply and demand,” because of an excess of supply
in the market, according to Batista. The company is also closing
its Dallas plant as it seeks to reduce production costs.  The average price of corn, used as an  animal feed , was 89
percent higher in the second quarter than a year earlier, while
soybean prices averaged about 44 percent more. Cattle prices
rose 22 percent.  JBS USA raised $2.06 billion through bonds sales and bank
loans in May and June to pay off debt in Brazil. The move will
help save about $150 million a year, the company said June 30.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucia Kassai in  Sao Paulo  at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net ;
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Buenos Aires  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net . 