-- 
JetBlue Pilots Spurn Union Representation a Second Time

-- B y   A l e x   B a r i n k a   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 
2011-08-16T20:46:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/jetblue-pilots-spurn-union-representation-a-second-time-1-.html
JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU)  pilots voted
for the second time against joining a union, maintaining the
company’s status as the biggest U.S. airline without organized
labor groups.  Fifty-eight percent of the votes were cast against union
representation, and 41 percent were in favor, Mateo Lleras, a
JetBlue spokesman, said in an e-mail. The union needed a
majority of 2,050 valid votes to prevail under a 2010 federal
rule change. Previously, unions had to win a majority of all
potential members, with abstentions counted as “no” votes.  The lack of union costs has helped JetBlue keep expenses
lower than some competitors during the  11 years  since it began
flying. The airline doesn’t have to cope with contract
restrictions on schedules and pay or possible work slowdowns and
strikes if it can’t reach an agreement with a union.  Chief Executive Officer David Barger thanked the pilots in
a statement after the vote for choosing “to retain and expand
their direct relationship with the company.”  In previous efforts to unionize, the International
Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers fell short of
votes needed in 2006 to represent baggage handlers, and pilots
cast insufficient votes to create an independent bargaining unit
in 2009.  The Air Line Pilots Association asked the  National
Mediation Board  June 2 to authorize the most recent election
“on behalf of a strong majority of JetBlue pilots,” according
to a letter to JetBlue’s Barger from Lee Moak, president of the
association. Voting began July 26 and ended today.  The airline, whose largest shareholder is  Germany ’s
 Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) , fell 5 cents, or 1.1 percent, to $4.41 at
4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares
have fallen 33 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Barinka in New York at 
 abarinka@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein at   maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  