-- 
Jinchuan Seeks to Use Metorex for Africa Metals Growth

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-08-17T12:03:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/jinchuan-seeking-to-use-1-36-billion-target-metorex-for-african-expansion.html
(Corrects period of profit forecast in sixth paragraph of
story published yesterday.)  Jinchuan Group Ltd., the second-
largest cobalt producer and fourth-largest nickel company by
capacity, may use a planned $1.36 billion takeover of  Metorex
Ltd. (MTX)  as a platform to expand its African metals operations.  “ Africa  has been Jinchuan’s focus for overseas development
and Metorex has a very good management team,” Vice President
Zhang Sanlin said in a translated interview in Johannesburg
today. “After this acquisition, Jinchuan would like to leverage
Metorex to look at more opportunities in Africa as well.”  The bid for Metorex and its copper mines in the Democratic
Republic of Congo follows Jinchuan’s acquisition of a stake in
Johannesburg-based  Wesizwe (WEZ)  Platinum Ltd. this year as the Asian
company seeks to become a multinational minerals producer. The
corporation, based in the city of Jinchang, is already  China ’s
largest producer of nickel, cobalt and platinum group metals.  Jinchuan is “confident” of succeeding with its bid, which
topped Brazilian rival  Vale SA (VALE3) ’s $1.1 billion, and won support
from major Metorex shareholders, Zhang said. It also got “very
encouraging” feedback from authorities in Congo, where Metorex
operates the Ruashi mine, Peter J. Deneen, senior vice president
of Jinchuan Group International Resources Co., told Bloomberg.  “The mining industry has a very long value chain so it can
become a very fundamental driver for local economic growth,”
Zhang said. “We see significant economic growth and social
development” in Africa. Shareholders vote on the bid Sept. 2.  Pretax Profit  Jinchuan will probably post sales of more than 100 billion
yuan ($16 billion) this year, while total asset value is about
80 billion yuan, he said. Pretax profit is forecast to exceed 15
billion yuan by the end of 2015, according to a company report
handed to Bloomberg.  The company has 150,000 metric tons of nickel capacity a
year, 600,000 tons of copper, 10,000 tons of cobalt and 10 tons
of platinum group metals, according to Zhang.  Jinchuan owns Sino-Nickel Ltd. and part of  Albidon Ltd. (ALB)  in
 Australia , Songshang Mining Ltd. in Tanzania, Tyler Resources
Ltd. in Canada, Hungary Jinchuan Mining Co., Jin-gang Mining Co.
in Congo, and Jinsheng Mining Co. in Indonesia.  Among Jinchuan’s owners, the Gansu provincial government
holds 69.57 percent of Jinchuan, while Baosteel Group Co. and
Taiyuan Iron & Steel (Group) Co. each have 5.94 percent.  South Africa  has the world’s largest platinum reserves and
Zambia is the continent’s biggest copper producer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  