-- 
K&L Gates Former Partner Apologized to Firm for Gambling Habit

-- B y   D e b r a   M a o
-- 
2011-08-16T05:29:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/k-l-gates-former-partner-apologizes-for-taking-clients-money-gambling.html
A former partner at K&L Gates LLP
admitted to taking money from client accounts to cover his
gambling habit and apologized, according to a lawyer
representing the U.S.  law firm .  Victor Dawes, who is representing K&L Gates in its lawsuit
against Navin Kumar Aggarwal, said the defendant wrote in a
letter to the firm that he had taken money from the escrow
accounts of clients to pay his gambling debts.  “What we have is an admission about a systematic scheme
that had taken place over a number of years,” Dawes said today
at a hearing in Hong Kong’s Court of First Instance. Aggarwal’s
lawyer, Kevin Hon, didn’t dispute the veracity of the letter.  Aggarwal sought at the hearing to have about HK$3.7 million
($475,000) released from his account to pay for his legal fees.
The law firm applied to freeze the accounts after police charged
the 44-year-old corporate lawyer with three counts of theft and
three counts of forgery on June 24.  Aggarwal, in custody at  Hong Kong ’s Lai Chi Kok Reception
Centre, is scheduled to appear in court on Aug. 22 to face
allegations that he stole HK$16.6 million from the accounts of
RIM China Co. held with K&L Gates and transferred the funds to
Wynn International Marketing Ltd. last year.  Dawes said Aggarwal wrote in the letter to the firm that he
was “sorry” and that “the money was used to cover my gambling
losses accumulated over the years.”  Aggarwal resigned when confronted with the allegations in
mid-June, K&L Gates said. The firm, which itself has been sued
for at least HK$250.4 million, sued Aggarwal for breach of trust.  “The police investigation is still ongoing,” Hon said
after the hearing when asked whether his client plans to plead
guilty in view of the letter he wrote to the firm.  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN) , the indirect owner of Wynn International
Marketing, operates two casinos in Macau, a 70-minute ferry ride
from Hong Kong.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Debra Mao in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  