-- 
Kerry Shareholder Approves Cutting Threshold Stake to 10%

-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 
2011-08-16T16:31:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/kerry-shareholder-approves-cutting-threshold-stake-to-10-1-.html
Kerry Group Plc (KYG) ’s largest
shareholder voted today to back a measure giving it scope to cut
its minimum stake in Ireland’s largest food company to as low as
10 percent.  Members of Kerry Co-operative Creameries Ltd. voted to
reduce its minimum threshold holding from 20 percent, according
to Kerry spokesman Frank Hayes. It currently holds a 22.8
percent stake, according to Bloomberg data. Almost 80 percent of
co-op voters last month backed the measure, which needed to be
confirmed today with a second vote.  About 86.2 percent of those who voted backed the measure
today. The vote enables the co-operative to transfer a proposed
10 million Kerry Group shares, or about 6 percent of the Tralee,
western Ireland-based company to its farming members.  The vote won’t result in more shares being issued and is
“more of a liquidity issue” for the co-operative as it will
allow it to distribute shares to farming members,  Joe Gill , a
Dublin-based analyst at Bloxham Stockbrokers said before the
vote, held near Kerry’s head office in Tralee.  Kerry will probably reaffirm tomorrow its adjusted earnings
per share growth forecast of 8 to 12 percent for the year,
according to four analysts, including Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc and Davy. Adjusted EPS growth in the first half may be
at the lower-end of that full-year guidance at 8 percent to 9
percent, according to NCB Stockbrokers.  “ Consumer goods  will probably be difficult for them in
the second half, but their ingredients business is performing
very well,” said Darren Greenfield, a Dublin-based analyst at
NCB, who expects Kerry to record about 10 percent adjusted EPS
growth for the 12 months.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Finbarr Flynn at 
 fflynn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  