-- 
Tears for Peers Are Newly OK in Modern Workplace: Anne Kreamer

-- B y   A n n e   K r e a m e r
-- 
2011-08-16T00:00:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/kreamer-tears-for-peers-are-newly-ok-in-workplace.html
On the first page of her recent
biography, “Bossypants,” comedian  Tina Fey  wrote, “If you are a
woman and you bought this book for practical tips on how to make
it in a male-dominated workplace, here they are. No pigtails, no
tube tops. Cry sparingly.”  And with that thought, Fey became every working woman’s
heroine.  But if we remove the tongue from cheek and look a little
more closely, does her simple, and funny, post-feminist mantra
hold up? Well, like most of us, Fey is a work in progress, and a
few years ago she was taking a different line.  In a 2007 Chicago Tribune  interview  after the public airing
of an angry message her “30 Rock” co-star Alec Baldwin left on
his daughter’s phone, Fey said: “InTouch Weekly said, ‘Alec
makes Tina cry,’ No. Other than the fact that it’s just not
true, I was like, ‘Don’t make it sound like I cry in my
workplace. I’m 37. I don’t cry at my workplace. I cry in my
kitchen. About the fact that I’m always working.’”  So what changed between 2007 and 2011? For Fey, maybe just
some mellowing and reconsideration, and the difference between a
new, struggling show and an Emmy-winning one that’s run five
years and counting. But in the world at large there have been
big changes that make women less defensive about tears at work.  As the numbers flowed in after the recession, which
devastated male-dominated industries such as construction, there
were headlines proclaiming that women made up the majority of
the American workforce for the first time. This is a big deal.
Four decades into the era of all women expecting and being
expected to work for a living, we can finally and fully move
beyond phase one, in which working women more or less tried to
simulate maleness.  Obliged to Adapt  As workplaces filled with women, men had the luxury of
behaving more or less the way they always had. Women, on the
other hand, were obliged to adopt and adapt to the dominant male
standards of professional behavior.  To be successful, many late 20th-century women felt they
had to suppress distinctly female parts of themselves -- their
essential femininity, their nurturing impulses, aspects of their
intrinsic emotional biology. Such as crying.  When  Martha Stewart , on her “Apprentice” television series,
told a contestant, “Cry and you are out of here; women in
business don’t cry, my dear,” she was fully embodying that
first-generation feminist viewpoint about “manning up.”
Despite women’s rising prominence the workforce, this notion,
that a woman’s tears at work are prima facie evidence of failure
or weakness, remains deep-seated.  Old School  Recent books such as “Nice Girls Don’t Get the Corner
Office,” “Leading From the Front: No-Excuse Leadership Tactics
for Women,” or “If You Have to Cry, Go Outside: And Other Things
Your Mother Never Told You,” buy the old-school norms. But this
point of view denies real underlying differences between the
genders, not just socially conditioned but neurobiologically
hard-wired.  In research I conducted for my latest book, I discovered
that 41 percent of women and 9 percent of men reported that they
had cried in the workplace during the past year. This finding
conforms to the national gender split that neurologists have
found. Women, who produce higher levels of prolactin, the
hormone that controls tear production, cry on average 5.3 times
a month, compared with 1.4 times for men. Women’s tear ducts are
also anatomically different from men’s -- they are smaller,
which means that when women cry tears tend to spill out and down
their faces, whereas when men cry their tears merely well up.  No Crying Ceiling  What surprised me in the data from my surveys, however, was
that there was no crying ceiling. Successful people at every
level of the professional hierarchy, women and men, reported
that they cried at work, bosses (like Fey) as well as junior
staff. Additionally, whether someone had cried at work seems to
make no difference in how much they like their job, for men or
women.  Tears are a biological phenomenon, and when they appear
they should be regarded not as bad in and of themselves but as a
message, like the check-engine light going off on the car
dashboard. Tears at work signal that something’s not quite
right. They aren’t necessarily a moral failing or a sign of
weakness.  I suggest readers follow Fey’s “Bossypants” advice on
pigtails, tube tops and how much to cry. But I’d make an
addition, and suggest you do as Fey does: Don’t take yourself
too seriously.  (Anne Kreamer is the author of the recently published book
“It’s Always Personal: Emotion in the New Workplace.” The
opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Anne Kreamer at  kreamer@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 