-- 
Kumba Reapplies for Sishen Mining Rights as Case Continues

-- B y   J a n a   M a r a i s   a n d   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 
2011-08-16T17:29:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/kumba-reapplies-for-sishen-mining-rights-as-case-continues-1-.html
Anglo American Plc (AAL)  unit  Kumba Iron
Ore Ltd. (KIO)  submitted a second application to the South African
government seeking the mining rights it does not already own
over its Sishen mine, court documents show.  Kumba’s Sishen  Iron Ore  Co. is seeking to reverse an award
to Imperial Crown Trading 289 Ltd. of 21.4 percent prospecting
rights over the Northern Cape mine. That case is being heard in
the North Gauteng High Court in Pretoria.  In court papers handed to journalists today, Sishen Iron
Ore said it reapplied for the 21.4 percent mining right, which
was originally held by ArcelorMittal  South Africa , the
continent’s biggest steelmaker. Sishen Iron Ore’s first
application was turned down by the mineral resources department,
who decided in favor of Imperial.  South African criminal investigators raided the offices of
Imperial and the mineral resources department last month in a
probe into the rights dispute. ArcelorMittal lost its rights
after failing to renew the title, prompting Kumba to cancel
supplies of iron ore to the steelmaker at below market rates.  The department has yet to respond to Sishen Iron Ore’s
application, which was resubmitted on Jan. 26, Kumba said in an
e-mailed response to questions today.  Kumba canceled an agreement to supply 6.25 million metric
tons of iron ore at cost plus 3 percent to ArcelorMittal when it
learned the prospecting right was awarded to Imperial.  The cancellation is the subject of a separate arbitration
set to start in May 2012.  Imperial’s owners include Jagdish Parekh, a business
partner of South African President  Jacob Zuma ’s son Duduzane.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Marais and Sikonathi Mantshantsha in
Johannesburg at   jmarais@bloomberg.net  or
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alastair Reed at 
 areed12@bloomberg.net  