-- 
New Zealand Second-Quarter Producer Input Prices Rise 0.9%

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-08-16T23:05:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/new-zealand-second-quarter-producer-input-prices-rise-0-9-1-.html
Prices paid by  New Zealand  farms,
factories and other producers for commodities and services rose
by less than economists forecast as dairy prices fell.  Producer input prices gained 0.9 percent in the April-June
period from the first quarter,  Statistics New Zealand  said in
Wellington today. The median expectation of six economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News was for a 1.1 percent rise. From a
year earlier, input prices increased 4.8 percent  Prices paid by dairy companies for milk fell 1.8 percent,
the first decline since the third quarter of 2009. Fonterra
Cooperative Group Ltd., the world’s largest dairy exporter,
lowered its forecast payment to farmers for the 2011-12 season
because of weaker global markets.  “We’re not immune to economic volatility,” Fonterra Chief
Executive Officer Andrew Ferrier of the Auckland-based company
said in an interview on TVOne’s Q+A program Aug. 7.  Today’s report showed overall input costs gained for a
seventh consecutive quarter, led by higher prices for livestock,
wool and fuel. Prices paid by meat processors increased for a
fifth quarter, rising 5.5 percent. Textile companies paid more
for wool, and the transport and postal industries had higher
fuel costs, the statistics agency said.  Oil companies  paid more
for imported crude oil.  Producer output prices, which are paid to factories, farms
and other producers, advanced for a sixth quarter, rising 1.4
percent from the previous three months, the agency said. The
median forecast of economists surveyed was a 0.8 percent
advance. From a year earlier, output prices rose 4.5 percent.  Payments to farmers for their livestock and wool increased
and dairy companies received higher prices from the global milk
powder market, the statistics agency said. The  petroleum
industry  received higher prices for refined products.  Limiting price gains, the New Zealand currency rose 5.1
percent against the  U.S. dollar  and also rose against the pound
and yen during the period. The  price index  is calculated based
on exchange rates as of May 15 compared with Feb. 15, the
statistics agency said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  