-- 
News Corp.’s James Murdoch Challenged on Hacking Testimony, Faces Recall

-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-08-17T16:03:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/news-corp-s-james-murdoch-may-need-to-explain-some-hacking-contradictions.html
A trove of documents and statements
released by the U.K. Parliament in the  News Corp . phone-hacking
scandal implicates top former executives while contradicting
testimony of Chief Operating Officer James Murdoch on what and
when he knew about the illegal practices.  The contradictions mean Murdoch may be called to Parliament
again to answer more questions about a confidential settlement
he approved with one of the first known hacking victims,
according to a statement issued by the Culture, Media and Sport
Committee, which is investigating the scandal.  The documents and statements prompted lawmakers to request
explanations for inconsistencies from several executives,
including  Andy Coulson , the tabloid’s former editor, and  Les Hinton , who recently resigned as publisher and CEO of Dow Jones
& Co. and had led News Corp.’s U.K. publishing unit.  The most critical new evidence the committee is working to
get to the bottom of are accusations made in a 2007 letter from
 Clive Goodman , the former royal reporter at the center of the
scandal. Goodman claims in the letter, which was released
yesterday, that hacking was widespread at News of the World,
editors discussed it during meetings and that he was promised
his job back if he didn’t reveal the problem to  law enforcement .  Devastating if Accurate  “The Goodman letter is devastating because, if it’s
accurate, the whole foundation of the company’s defense and all
the evidence they gave to all the inquiries was bogus,” said
 Tom Watson , a Labour Party lawmaker and member of the committee
probing the allegations. “If Goodman’s accurate, then this is
the smoking gun.”  Murdoch told lawmakers last month that he hadn’t realized
until late 2010 that phone hacking was widespread at the News of
the World. That’s been contradicted by Tom Crone and  Colin Myler , two former executives of the tabloid, who said they
informed him in 2008 about an e-mail that suggested more
reporters were involved. They said Murdoch was told about it
when they asked him in 2008 to approve a 700,000-pound ($1.2
million) settlement with  Gordon Taylor , the chief executive
officer of the Professional Footballers’ Association, who may
have had knowledge of further interceptions by the paper.  Goodman’s letter to the head of human resources at News
Corp.’s News International unit after he was sentenced to prison
for phone hacking claimed he was wrongly fired.  ‘Unfair Dismissal’  “From Clive Goodman’s letter of unfair dismissal and Tom
Crone’s meeting with James Murdoch it appears many of the senior
executives were becoming aware that phone hacking was a wider
issue, the question is what did they do with that information,”
said Damian Collins, a member of the parliamentary committee.
“There still remains a lot of ambiguity about what knowledge
 James Murdoch  had. It’s highly significant and we hope to get to
the bottom of that.”  Harbottle & Lewis LLP, a London law firm hired by News
Corp. to assist in looking into Goodman’s allegations about
widespread hacking, said in its statement to the committee that
 Rupert Murdoch  had been “inaccurate and misleading” in stating
why the firm had been hired. It disputed statements by Murdoch
and his son James that it had been engaged to give News Corp. a
“good conduct certificate” and said its findings in its
investigation were for “a wholly different purpose.”  James and Rupert Murdoch had overstated the limited scope
of Harbottle & Lewis’s mission, which was to examine 2,500 e-
mails for any evidence of hacking involved not just Goodman but
five other News of the World employees, whose names were
redacted from the statement at the request of the police,
according to the firm.  ‘Rested On’  Harbottle & Lewis rejected the evidence of James Murdoch
that News International “rested on” the firm’s conclusions for
his belief, until 2010, that Goodman was a rogue reporter.  The firm’s managing partner, Glen Atchison, said last month
that Harbottle asked News International to release it from
“professional duties of confidentiality” so that it could
respond to “inaccurate statements” in Murdoch’s testimony. The
request was granted, after initially being denied.  The committee wants four former executives, Crone, Myler,
former News International human resources director Daniel Cloke
and Jonathan Chapman, the unit’s former director of legal
affairs, to return to give further testimony, it said yesterday.  Goodman, who was jailed for hacking phones, also said
Coulson, the editor at the time, was fully aware of phone
hacking. Coulson, who stepped down from his post at the
newspaper after Goodman was jailed, resigned as U.K. Prime
Minister  David Cameron ’s spokesman earlier this year and was
arrested in July for questioning. He has maintained that he
wasn’t aware of any phone hacking.  Serious Implications  “It could have serious implications for Coulson,” Niri
Shan, the head of media law at Taylor Wessing LLP in  London ,
said of Goodman’s letter. “He’s categorically denied he knew
what was going on. Murdoch was at least one removed from the
editorial meetings.”  Coulson’s lawyer, Jo Rickards, didn’t respond to a phone
call or e-mail seeking comment. A spokeswoman for Crone and
Myler didn’t respond to calls and an e-mail seeking comment. In
letters to Parliament earlier this month Crone and Myler stood
by their earlier testimony.  News Corp.’s Management and Standards Committee “is
cooperating fully with the Metropolitan Police and is
facilitating their investigation into illegal voice-mail
interception at the News of the World and related issues,” News
Corp. said in an e-mailed statement. “We recognize the
seriousness of materials disclosed to the police and
Parliament.”  ‘Perverse’ Decision  The committee will offer Coulson, another former News of
the World editor, Stuart Kuttner, Rebekah Brooks, who was the
unit’s chief executive officer, and Hinton a chance to clarify
their comments. Brooks said she was out of the country and
couldn’t immediately provide all the data the committee wanted.  Goodman said in his letter Hinton’s decision to fire him
after his conviction was “perverse” because his hacking
activities had been carried out with the “full knowledge and
support” of staff members, whose names were redacted in the
letter. Other reporters also engaged in hacking without being
fired, he said.  Four days after the date of the letter Goodman sent to
Hinton, who had fired him, Hinton testified to Parliament that
he believed Goodman was the only News of the World reporter who
had hacked voice mails.  When he resigned last month, Hinton said in a statement
that he, “watched with sorrow from  New York ” as the News of
the World story unfolded and allegations of wrongdoing while he
was executive chairman of News International emerged.  Ignorant  “That I was ignorant of what apparently happened is
irrelevant and in the circumstances I feel it is proper for me
to resign from News Corp. and apologize to those hurt by the
actions of News of the World,” he said then.  Efforts to reach  Hinton  for further comment weren’t
successful.  “There needs to be a great deal of scrutiny into what
Goodman is saying,” Shan said. “There may be documented
evidence one way or the other to show whether he’s right.”  The ex-royal reporter was paid 243,503 pounds to settle the
case over his dismissal, according to James Murdoch’s letter to
Parliament, which was published yesterday. That contradicts
Brooks’ evidence in 2009 that they were forced to settle with
Goodman because it could cost more than 60,000 pounds and the
amount they agreed on was less than that. She’s being asked to
clarify her statement, Watson said.  Gross Negligence  “Here’s a man who’s gone to prison for criminal
wrongdoing, he’s sacked for gross negligence and he’s received a
quarter of a million pounds as severance,” Watson said. “I
don’t know any gross negligence case where that’s happened
before.”  Prosecutors, the lawyer for the private investigator who
did the hacking for Goodman and the sentencing judge in
Goodman’s case all agreed other News of the World employees used
the services of the investigator,  Glenn Mulcaire , Goodman said.
Goodman also specified who signed off on payments to Mulcaire,
although the name of the payer was redacted.  Linklaters LLP, which represents the Management and
Standards Committee of News Corp. board of directors, said in a
separate letter an 85,000-pound settlement paid to Mulcaire to
resolve a 2007 employment dispute was authorized by Hinton and
News International’s then-finance director Stephen Daintith.  “As far as I am aware, no other member of staff has faced
disciplinary action, much less dismissal,” Goodman said in the
letter. “My conviction and imprisonment cannot be the real
reason for my dismissal.”  Crone, the former News International legal manager,
attended almost all meetings related to Goodman’s case and knew
in advance he would plead guilty, Goodman said. The newspaper
continued to employ him and said he could return to a job at the
News of the World if he didn’t implicate the publication or its
staff as part of his plea, according to the letter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  