-- 
News Corp. Editors Had Been Aware of Phone Hacking Since '07, Goodman Says

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-08-16T11:57:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/news-corp-executives-were-aware-of-phone-hacking-since-2007-goodman-says.html
News of the World executives may
have been aware of widespread phone hacking at the U.K. tabloid
since 2007, U.K. lawmaker Damian Collins said, citing a letter
by former royal reporter  Clive Goodman .  Goodman wrote that hacking was discussed at editorial
conferences in a  letter  in which he was suing for unfair
dismissal, Collins said in an interview today. Goodman is the
only journalist from the newspaper who has been jailed for phone
hacking.  Alice Macandrew, a spokeswoman for  News Corp. (NWSA) , declined to
comment on Clive Goodman’s accusations.  The Parliament’s Culture, Media and Sport Committee today
examined responses from former News Corp. employees and found
“devastating revelations,” Labour Party lawmaker Tom Watson,
who sits on the committee, told reporters in London. The
lawmakers still found differences in the statements on how
much senior News Corp. executives knew about the scope of
phone hacking.  Tom Crone, the News of the World legal manager, and  Colin
Myler , its one-time editor, are likely to be recalled in
September to answer further questions, said John Whittingdale,
who chairs the committee. The lawmakers will probably also 
recall  James Murdoch , who would appear after Crone and Myler, 
Whittingdale said. The committee won’t recall James’ father
 Rupert Murdoch , the chief executive officer of News Corp.  James Murdoch, who has overseen the News International
U.K. arm since 2007, told lawmakers last month that he hadn’t
realized until late 2010 that phone hacking was widespread at
News Corp.’s News of the World. That’s been contradicted by
Crone and Myler, who said they informed him in 2008 about an e-
mail that suggested more reporters had been involved, leading
lawmakers to demand responses to explain the inconsistency.   Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in  London  at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  