-- 
Nigerian Inflation Slows to 9.4% in July, Lowest in More Than Three Years

-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 
2011-08-16T14:19:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/nigerian-inflation-slows-to-9-4-in-july-to-within-central-bank-s-target.html
Nigeria ’s annual inflation rate
declined to 9.4 percent in July, the lowest level in more than
three years, as the naira strengthened against the dollar,
curbing imported food costs in Africa’s most-populous nation.  Inflation slowed from 10.2 percent in June, an official
from the  National Bureau of Statistics  told reporters in the
capital, Abuja, today.  The naira surged to 150.125 against the dollar on July 1,
its highest level in more than six months after the central bank
lifted a curb on foreign investors’ bond holdings. Since then
the currency has dropped 0.8 percent against the dollar, while
 government spending  has increased, keeping pressure on the
central bank to raise its benchmark  interest rate  following four
increases this year to 8.75 percent.  “Inflation could now remain in single-digits in coming
months,”  Samir Gadio , an emerging markets strategist at
Standard Bank Group Ltd. in London, said in an e-mailed response
to questions today. “This, however, does not necessarily imply
that the Central Bank of Nigeria will not hike rates at its
September” interest rate meeting.  The outlook for inflation this year is “uncertain” due to
the state’s plan to more than double the monthly minimum wage to
18,000 naira ($116) and to deregulate fuel prices, central bank
Governor Lamido Sanusi said last month.  Core inflation , which
excludes food, will probably accelerate in the second half of
the year, he said.  Nigeria’s economy probably expanded about 7.9 percent in
the second quarter and is expected to grow 8 percent this year,
according to the statistics office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  