-- 
Norquist Won’t Oppose Extension of Gas Tax

-- B y   C a r o l   W o l f
-- 
2011-08-16T16:28:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/norquist-won-t-oppose-extension-of-gas-tax.html
Anti-tax crusader  Grover Norquist 
said he won’t oppose an extension of U.S. gasoline and diesel-
fuel taxes set to expire Sept. 30, as he pushes for broader
transportation-funding overhaul.  Norquist, president of  Americans for Tax Reform , said today
that an extension with no changes wouldn’t violate a pledge
signed by many congressional lawmakers not to raise taxes.  That may allow Republicans to agree to extend surface
transportation funding and authority to collect the gasoline
tax. The  Federal Aviation Administration  last month temporarily
lost its authority to collect airline ticket taxes when Congress
couldn’t agree on an extension bill for that agency, and about
4,000 FAA workers were furloughed for two weeks.  “We’re interested in the broader issue that states should
keep their own fuel taxes. We don’t want it run through
Washington,” Norquist said in a telephone interview. “Why
should  Connecticut  pay for what’s going on in  Wyoming  and
Wyoming pay for the New York City subway system?”  The federal government receives 18.4 cents from the sale of
every gallon of gas for the Highway Trust Fund, which pays for
road and bridge construction projects, and uses a formula to
determine how much money each state gets in return. Under the
current plan, some states receive less money than they send to
the federal government while others get more.  ‘Their Own Taxes’  “We want to show governors how much they can keep of their
own taxes,” he said. “We want them to understand that this
reform can happen in their term.”  Eliminating the federal gas tax will take between two to
five years, he said. Norquist hopes to drum up  support  for two
 bills  that allow states to opt out of the Highway Trust Fund.  “Prying  Washington ’s hands off the money will take some
time,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carol Wolf in Washington at 
 cwolf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  