-- 
Norway to Curb Krone Gains as Surplus Lures Buyers

-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r   a n d   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t
-- 
2011-08-16T08:32:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/norway-to-curb-krone-gains-as-surplus-lures-buyers.html
Norway  pledged to counter krone
gains that threaten its exports as the widest budget surplus of
any AAA rated nation draws investors seeking refuge from debt
crises in the U.S. and Europe.  The krone is up 12 percent against the dollar since a Nov.
30 low and reached a four-year high against the euro this month.
Norway, which like  Switzerland  isn’t a member of the European
Union, posted the widest budget surplus of any top-rated
sovereign last year at 10.5 percent of gross domestic product,
according to  Fitch Ratings .  The krone’s strength is “probably largely due to the
uncertainty we see and, of course, Norway’s solid economy
attracting capital to Norway,” Finance Minister Sigbjoern Johnsen said yesterday in an interview in Oslo. “And that
underlines how important it is for us, through our fiscal
policy, to do what we can to reduce the pressure on  interest
rates  and thereby also on the krone.”  Curbing the ascent may prove difficult. The surplus of the
world’s seventh-largest oil exporter will widen to 12.5 percent
of GDP this year, while the economy, excluding oil and shipping,
will grow 3.3 percent this year and 4 percent in 2012, the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said in
May. That’s about twice the expansion rate in the euro area, the
OECD estimates. Norway’s krone, which traditionally tracks oil,
has also outperformed crude which slumped this month.  Rock Solid  “The oil price has fallen somewhat from its high level,
while the Norwegian krone remains strong because of its rock-
solid government finances and continued good growth in Norway,”
said Kari Due-Andresen, a senior economist at Svenska
Handelsbanken AB in Oslo.  The krone was the second-best performing major currency
yesterday after Sweden’s krona against the dollar, the euro and
the yen, gaining 1.5 percent against the dollar to 5.4382.
Today, the krone lost 0.7 percent against the dollar, declining
for the first day in four, to trade at 5.45738 at 9:33 a.m. in
Oslo. Norway’s krone was the third-worst performing major
currency today against the dollar, the yen and the euro.  Policy makers across the globe are stepping up efforts to
guide exchange rates as a stock market rout has investors
hunting for havens.  Global Interventions  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis and  Standard & Poor’s 
downgrade of the U.S. have driven investors to the perceived
safety of Japanese yen and Swiss francs.  Japan moved to curb yen appreciation on Aug. 4 in an effort
to stem “ongoing one-sided moves” that would hurt the county’s
recovery from a March earthquake, according to Finance Minister
 Yoshihiko Noda .  South Korea ’s government is reviewing “all possibilities”
on curbing capital inflows, Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan said
on Aug. 4, while the  Philippines ’ Central Bank Governor Amando Tetangco the same week said the country was prepared to impose
controls to cap volatility in the peso after the currency rose
to a three-year high versus the dollar.  The Swiss central bank is assessing “a whole range of
options” to prevent further appreciation of the franc, which
reached a record against the euro this month. The Alpine
nation’s economic outlook has “deteriorated substantially”
after the franc’s surge against the dollar and euro, the Zurich-
based bank said earlier this month.  Oil, Krone Disconnect  Paul Mackel , senior currency analyst in  London  at HSBC
Holding Plc, said the relationship between Norway’s krone and
oil “has broken down.”  Even if oil falls, the krone “should remain relatively
resilient because it’s a sound sovereign story compared to some
of the ugly stories out there at present,” Mackel said in an
interview last week.  Norway, which together with Switzerland boasts Europe’s
lowest jobless rate, is trying to limit its currency’s strength
to protect exporters such as aluminum producer  Norsk Hydro ASA. (NHY) 
The government’s warning comes as the Swiss franc, which hit a
record high against the euro on Aug. 10, pares gains as that
country’s central bank threatens to act to weaken the currency.  Rate Rise Scrapped  Norway’s central bank this month scrapped a planned rate
increase and signaled it may shelve any monetary tightening for
the remainder of the year as global market turmoil risks
derailing an economic recovery. Norway’s benchmark  OBX stock
index (OBX)  is down 15 percent this year. Norsk Hydro lost 22 percent
in the period. Hydro, which sells aluminum in dollars, will see
its income hurt if the krone continues to strengthen against the
dollar, spokesman Halvor Molland said by phone yesterday.  “What we are worried about is the export oriented
companies because they can have a double influence from weaker
international markets and the growth of expenses in Norway,”
Trade Minister Trond Giske said in an interview. Norway also
faces higher interest rates as wage growth fuels domestic
demand, which can “weaken” competitiveness, he said.
“Economic policy needs to take this into account.”  The government will this year seek to limit expenditure to
4 percent of its $550 billion sovereign-wealth fund, as
stipulated by its fiscal rule. The  Finance Ministry  breached the
rule in 2010 and 2009 in an effort to pad the economy against
the fallout of the global crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 Jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  