-- 
Norway Sees Longer Oil Era as North Sea Find Offers Hidden Giant

-- B y   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t
-- 
2011-08-17T10:25:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/norway-sees-longer-oil-era-as-north-sea-find-offers-hidden-giant.html
Norway may slow a decade-long slump
in oil production after a series of discoveries from the Arctic
to the North Sea.  Statoil ASA (STL)  has made two offshore finds of more than 250
million barrels of oil equivalent in Norway this year. The
country’s biggest oil and gas producer yesterday said Aldous
Major South and Avaldsnes in the North Sea are part of one
“giant” oil field, and among Norway’s top 10 discoveries. The
discovery is less than 10 feet away from where  Total SA (FP) , then
Elf Aquitaine, drilled a dry well in 1971, according to Statoil.  “This shows Norway still has the capacity to deliver
world-class discoveries,” Tim Dodson, Statoil’s exploration
chief, said in Oslo yesterday. “It’s probably the largest
offshore oil discovery anywhere in the world this year. It has
given the entire oil industry renewed optimism.”  Norway , the seventh-biggest oil exporter, is facing
dwindling production due to maturing fields. Output peaked in
2000 and may drop 6 percent this year to about 1.7 million
barrels a day, according to the  Norwegian Petroleum Directorate .
Statoil, which operates 80 percent of Norway’s production,
missed its 2010 target and may produce less this year than last.  The Aldous and Avaldsnes oil discoveries located on the
Utsira High may hold 500 million to 1.2 billion barrels of
recoverable oil, according to the Stavanger-based company. The
company is scheduled to drill a well next week at the Aldous
Major North prospect, which has a 50 percent chance of striking
oil and may add as much as 300 million barrels of recoverable
oil, Dodson said.  Wildcat Wells  More than 40 percent of the 24 wildcat wells drilled off
Norway this year were classified as commercially interesting, of
which more than half were in  North Sea , according to Petroleum
Directorate data.  That’s a far cry from how the industry looked in March,
when four wells drilled in the Barents and Norwegian seas had
failed to find oil or gas, adding to two dry wells in the North
Sea. It marked the biggest number of failures to start a year
since the country first tapped oil in 1966, according to
government data.  “To discover an elephant in Norway is in our view
remarkable, especially given that it’s in the North Sea,” said
Trond Omdal, an analyst at Arctic Securities ASA in Oslo.
“Production could be 250,000 to 300,000 barrels a day, and
given that Norway’s production last year was 2.1 million and
this year has been below 2 million, that shows the impact.”  Skrugard, Goliat  Statoil in April announced a find at the Skrugard prospect
that may hold as much as 500 million barrels of recoverable gas,
eclipsing  Eni SpA (ENI) ’s nearby Goliat find, which had been the
largest off Norway since 2000 with 240 million barrels of oil
equivalent.  Total SA and  Lundin Petroleum AB (LUPE)  subsequently struck
natural gas at the Norvarg and Skalle prospects in the  Barents
Sea , further boosting prospects that the region could become
Norway’s new petroleum province.  Oil producers including Eni, Statoil, GDF Suez SA and Dong
Energy A/S are drilling seven wells in the Barents Sea this year
and another seven in 2012, amid a push to make discoveries in a
region that has yielded two developments after 30 years of
exploration.  Skrugard and other prospects indicate that Norway’s oil era
is not nearing the end, Petroleum and Energy Minister Ola Borten Moe said last week, citing  Winston Churchill ’s speech from
November 1942: “It is not even the beginning of the end, but it
is, perhaps, the end of the beginning.”  Estimated Resources  An estimated 60 percent of Norway’s petroleum resources are
still underground. The country had an estimated 10 to 16 billion
standard cubic meters of oil equivalent in recoverable resources
by the end of 2010, according to a report published in September
by the Ministry of Petroleum and Energy.  “These are enormous areas, with enormous potential, where
we can witness incredible things and we already are,” Borten
Moe said in an Aug. 9 interview. “The activity level in general
is high and the discoveries that are being made are raising the
level of interest, creating a virtuous circle.”  DNO International ASA, the first foreign company to pump
oil in  Iraq  since the 1970s, may return to Norway after its
departure as an operator about four years ago, lured by the
prospect of more finds in the North Sea.  “We have good knowledge and experience from Norway,”
Chief Executive Officer Helge Eide said in an Oslo interview
today. “The North Sea is an area we consider to be interesting,
so there are a lot of good industrial arguments.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marianne Stigset in Oslo at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ; 