-- 
NYSE Euronext, Deutsche Boerse Retreat After Plan for European Trading Tax

-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 
2011-08-16T20:54:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/nyse-euronext-nasdaq-retreat-amid-french-german-plan-for-transaction-tax.html
NYSE Euronext (NYX)  and  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) 
led exchange operators lower in U.S. trading after French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said his nation and Germany will
propose a financial-transaction tax in September.  Sarkozy didn’t provide details on the proposal during a
press conference with German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  in Paris.
The Bloomberg World Exchanges Index of 25 companies lost 1.6
percent at 4:54 p.m. in New York as NYSE Euronext, which
operates stock and derivatives exchanges in London and Paris,
fell 8.4 percent. Deutsche Boerse AG, owner of the Frankfurt
exchange, slumped 8.4 percent in U.S. trading.  The French and German leaders failed to convince European
leaders last year to adopt a tax on securities trades. In
September, U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said
it was difficult to envision how such a system would work.  “Normally it’s bad news for those who are at the center of
transactions, which is the exchanges,”  Mike Shea , a managing
partner at Direct Access Partners LLC in New York, said in a
telephone interview today. “If they want to raise revenue,
who’s paying it? Traders, banks, exchanges? There’s nothing
specific here. They are proposing something, but we don’t know
what it is. The knee-jerk reaction is ‘Let’s sell exchanges that
have exposure to Europe.’”  Lower Sales  A tax on trades at  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE)  has cut
equity volume and an extension threatens to reduce sales growth
among venue operators in the region, according to Richard Perrott, an exchange analyst at Berenberg Bank in  London .  “Exchanges earn revenue by taking a tariff each time a
trade goes through, and lower activity implies lower revenue,”
he said in a phone interview today. “We still need more clarity
on what products it will affect and what kinds of trading.
Shares in the U.K. change hands less frequently than in Germany
and Spain, and that goes to the heart of the exchange model.”  The speed of trades in the U.K., where investors must pay a
0.5 percent tax on the value of their trades, is about 30
percent less than in Europe, Perrott said.  A 1996 report on financial transactions taxes for the
Canadian government found that  Sweden ’s 1984 levy of 1 percent
on equity trades, doubled two years later, caused half of the
country’s trading to move to London by 1990, a year before the
tax was abolished. Capital gains revenue decreased as volume
sank, “almost entirely offsetting revenues from the equity
transactions tax,” the report said.  Taxing equity trades might reduce U.S. stock market volume
by 90 percent, Interactive Brokers Group Inc. Chief Executive
Officer Thomas Peterffy said on Jan. 29, 2010. Iowa Senator Tom Harkin and Oregon Representative Peter DeFazio, both Democrats,
said during the prior year that such a tax might help fund the
government’s deficit and curb speculation. No such rule was ever
enacted in the U.S.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in  New York  at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  