-- 
Obama on Iowa Stump Says Strong Recovery Will Begin With Small Businesses

-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-08-16T19:26:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/obama-says-washington-partisan-brinksmanship-boosts-economic-uncertainty.html
President  Barack Obama  told an
audience in rural Iowa that the  U.S. economy  will come back
“stronger than before” after the worst recession in decades,
as he sought to regain the initiative on the economic debate
that likely will dominate the 2012 campaign.  In opening a forum on the rural economy at Northeast
Community College in Peosta, Obama said the recovery must be led
by small businesses and entrepreneurs and “isn’t going to be
driven by Washington.”  “It is going to be driven by folks here in Iowa,” he
said.  In the state that launched his successful bid for the
Democratic presidential nomination in 2008, Obama said the
historic resilience of the American people will see the country
“through this moment of challenge.” He also criticized the
political atmosphere in  Washington .  The “politics of the short term” and “the refusal of a
faction in Congress to put country ahead of party” are stalling
measures to bolster growth, Obama said.  On the second of three days traveling through rural areas
of the Midwest, Obama is outlining proposals that the
administration says will aid the economy in the farming regions
outside the nation’s big cities.  Rural Initiatives  Among them are expanded loan programs run by the Small
Business Administration through a $1 billion investment fund
aimed at luring private capital, job search and training
services, and increased access to health care and technology.
Money will come from existing programs and funding, according to
a White House fact sheet.  The administration also is announcing that the Navy and the
departments of Agriculture and Energy will invest as much as
$510 million in a program aimed at producing biofuels for
aircraft and ships. The plan, part of the administration’s
energy strategy, will benefit rural areas, according to
Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack.  As he did yesterday during stops in Minnesota and  Iowa ,
Obama listed initiatives he has proposed, including renewing a 2
percentage point cut in the  payroll tax  paid by workers, which
is set to expire at the end of the year, and passing legislation
to spur  road construction .  “We could do even more if Congress is willing to get into
the game,” he said.  Stocks Fall  U.S. stocks fell for the first time in four days on concern
that the European debt crisis may worsen and after the Commerce
Department said housing starts fell last month. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index declining 1 percent to 1,192.5 at 2:09 p.m. in
New York. The benchmark rallied 7.5 percent in the three
previous sessions, its biggest jump since March 2009.  Federal Reserve data showed today that industrial
production in the U.S. climbed in July by 0.9 percent, the most
this year and almost twice as fast as economists forecast  The administration said the trip was about the economy
rather than the coming campaign. Obama, though, has taken aim at
the Republican presidential candidates for rejecting, during
their Iowa debate on Aug. 11, any increase in taxes to trim the
deficit even if they were offered $10 in spending cuts for each
$1 in new government revenue.  “None of them would take it,” he said yesterday. “That’s
just not common sense.”  Taxes  Obama also criticized House Speaker  John Boehner  for
rejecting a $4 trillion deficit-cutting deal “because his
belief was we can’t ask anything of millionaires and
billionaires and big corporations.”  To back up his call for a mix of tax increases for the
wealthy along with shrinking spending, Obama throughout the day
cited an opinion article by billionaire investor  Warren Buffett 
that was published in the  New York  Times.  “My friends and I have been coddled long enough by a
billionaire-friendly Congress,” the chairman and chief
executive officer of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc . wrote. “It’s time
for our government to get serious about shared sacrifice.”  Buffett expanded on the issue in an interview with  Charlie Rose  broadcast on PBS yesterday, calling the stance of the
Republican candidates on taxes “pathetic.”  “When they take that attitude they are really saying, ‘you
know I want to win this primary,’” Buffett, who has served as
an informal adviser to Obama said. “They are saying ‘The
country be dammed, I want to win this primary.’”  White House Reaction  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said while he wasn’t
aware of any coordination between the administration and Buffett
regarding the message on taxes, “We endorse his point of
view.”  The  Republican National Committee  responded to Obama’s trip
by releasing an ad, “Obama’s Debt-End Bus Tour,” that lists
the jobs lost in  Minnesota , Iowa and  Illinois  since he took
office.  The president also was the target of criticism from Texas
Governor  Rick Perry , who announced Aug. 13 that he is running
for the Republican presidential nomination.  “The president of the  United States  has conducted an
experiment on the American economy for almost the last three
years, and it has gone tragically wrong,” Perry said yesterday
at a Republican fundraiser in Cedar Rapids, Iowa. Perry said any
move by Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  to act on
stimulus measures before the 2012 election would be
“treasonous.”  Carney told reporters that the administration takes the
Fed’s independence “quite seriously” and criticized Perry’s
“threatening” language.  Private Talks  The president traveled about 160 miles, rolling through
rural parts of Minnesota and Iowa rarely visited by presidential
motorcades, meeting with local residents along the way. In
Guttenberg, Iowa, this morning, Obama met with five owners of
small businesses and greeted local residents at Rausch’s Cafe.  Among the residents was Betty McVicker, 90, who said she is
a registered Republican and didn’t vote for Obama in 2008.
Still, she went to Rausch’s for a chance to meet him.  “He’s our president,” she said. “I’m thrilled to
pieces.”  The Midwest tour is reminiscent of Obama’s campaign swings
though the area in 2008, including the same music soundtrack.  Now, as an incumbent, Obama faces one of the most
challenging periods of his presidency. A worsening economic
outlook,  Standard & Poor’s  first-ever downgrade of the U.S.
credit rating, risks of a spillover effect from  Europe ’s debt
crisis and volatility in global markets are drawing comparisons
to the beginning of the 2008 financial crisis.  Fitch Ratings today affirmed its top AAA rating on U.S.
Treasuries. Standard & Poor’s, another of the three major
ratings companies, on Aug. 5 cut its rating on federal debt to
AA+ from AAA. The yield on the benchmark 10-year note dropped
0.06 percentage point to 2.25 percent at 12:52 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Peosta, Iowa, at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  