-- 
Mol Second-Quarter Net Jumps, Company Eyes Acquisitions

-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 
2011-08-16T09:08:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/mol-second-quarter-net-jumps-company-eyes-acquisitions-1-.html
Mol Nyrt.,  Hungary ’s biggest
refiner, posted a profit in the second quarter, following a loss
a year earlier, after oil prices and production rose and
financial losses narrowed.  Net income was 54 billion forint ($288 million), compared
with a loss of 43.2 billion forint a year earlier, the company
said in a filing to the Budapest Stock Exchange today. That
compares with an average estimate of 52.1 billion forint by
seven analysts in a Bloomberg poll.  Mol, which is active in 13 countries, including Iraq,
Russia, Syria, Pakistan and Oman, benefited from a 4 percent
advance in oil prices and higher production during the quarter,
overcoming a financial loss of 10.3 billion forint derived in
part from foreign-currency loans. The year-earlier financial
loss was 77.5 billion forint.  Its “underlying earnings look rather strong,” Olena Kyrylenko, an analyst at KBC Securities, said in an e-mailed
note today. “We maintain our bullish view on the stock as Mol
remains one of the few stocks to offer organic growth at good
returns, increasing exposure to upstream margins and high
quality assets that can weather storms in refining.”  The company’s “base scenario” is for  oil prices  and
refining margins to be little changed in 2011 and for a “slow”
rise in demand, Deputy Chief Executive Officer Jozsef Simola
said in a phone interview today. Mol sees an increasing risk of
a double-dip recession, though it has the “necessary financial
flexibility” to face that, he said.  Output Levels  Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization rose 40 percent to 155.3 billion forint.  The company aims to keep production at current levels for
the rest of the year and may purchase new assets in the medium
term, Simola said.  Mol shares fell 150 forint, or 0.9 percent, by 9:50 a.m. in
Budapest as the benchmark BUX index declined 1.2 percent. The
shares have dropped 16.5 percent this year, compared with a 12.8
percent decline in the 13-member BUX gauge.  Mol’s dividend hinges on full-year results and any
potential acquisitions, Simola said. The company last paid a
dividend in 2008.  Production in  Syria  is “undisturbed” for now and the
company has evacuation plans drawn up in case violence affects
Mol’s production areas, Simola said.  Syrian government forces have killed more than 2,400 people
so far, according to the Arab Organization for Human Rights.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  