-- 
Homebuilding in U.S. Probably Fell as Sales Dropped, Foreclosures Climbed

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-08-16T04:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/homebuilding-in-u-s-probably-fell-as-sales-dropped-foreclosures-climbed.html
Builders probably began work on
fewer houses in July, showing residential real estate is failing
to contribute to U.S. growth two years into an economic
recovery, economists said before a report today.  Housing starts fell 4.6 percent to a 600,000 annual rate,
according to the median estimate of 77 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Another report may show factory production rose
as auto making began to bounce back from the disaster in  Japan .  Falling sales, foreclosures and a lack of jobs may keep
delaying a rebound in homebuilding, depriving the world’s
largest economy of a source of strength seen in the early stages
of past recoveries. Concern over housing is prompting banks to
maintain strict mortgage lending rules and was one reason the
 Federal Reserve  said it would hold borrowing costs at a record
low until at least mid-2013.  “Housing is going nowhere fast,” said  Joshua Shapiro ,
chief U.S. economist at Maria Fiorini Ramirez Inc. in  New York .
“Demand is just really not there, and there’s an overwhelming
supply of unsold homes.”  The homebuilding report is due from the Commerce Department
at 8:30 a.m. in  Washington . Survey estimates ranged from 570,000
to 650,000, after a 629,000 pace in June that was the highest
level in five months.  The median projection compares with last year’s tally of
587,000 starts, the second-fewest on record. Home construction
totaled 554,000 units in 2009, the lowest since record-keeping
began in 1959. During the past decade’s housing boom, starts
reached a peak of 2.07 million in 2005.  Fewer Permits  Building permits, a proxy for future construction, may have
fallen 1.9 percent to a 605,000 annual rate from 617,000 in
June, according to the Bloomberg survey.  Labor Department figures, also due at 8:30 a.m., may show
the import-price index fell 0.1 percent last month, the second
straight decline as commodity prices dropped, according to the
Bloomberg News survey median.  At 9:15 a.m., the Fed may report industrial production grew
0.5 percent in July after a 0.2 percent gain in June, according
to the survey median. Economists’ forecasts ranged from 0.1
percent to 1 percent. Manufacturing, included in the industrial
output report, accounts for about 12 percent of the economy.  The output figures may also reflect a jump in utility use
as temperatures soared across the U.S., with July records in
Texas and  Oklahoma , according to the National Climatic Data
Center. Last month was the fourth-warmest July in 117 years, it
said.  Manufacturing ‘Cooling’  “Industrial production improved a bit after supply
disruptions eased and it got a boost from utilities last
month,” said Shapiro. “But the manufacturing sector is cooling
from an unsustainably strong pace as economies around the world
are slowing. We have a very weak economy.”  Builders have little incentive to take on more work.
Combined sales of new and previously owned homes dropped in June
to the lowest level of the year, according to reports from the
Commerce Department and the National Association of Realtors.  The median price of a single-family house dropped in 109
out of 150 metropolitan areas in the second quarter as
foreclosures devalued real estate, the Realtors group said in a
report on Aug. 10.  “The housing sector remains depressed,” the  Federal Open
Market Committee  said in a statement after its meeting on Aug.
9. “Economic growth so far this year has been considerably
slower than the Committee had expected.”  Lending Rules  Bank-lending standards on home mortgages were little
changed for both prime and non-traditional loans during the
second quarter, the Fed said yesterday in its survey of senior
loan officers. In addition, about three-quarters of banks said
they expected the pace of mortgage lending “to remain at about
the same level through the rest of 2011,” the Fed said.  The banks cited “reduced or unchanged demand from
creditworthy borrowers” as a factor. They also pointed to
“unfavorable or uncertain forecasts for the broad economy and
for  house prices .”  While concerns that the expansion may falter sparked stock
market losses, homebuilders have fared worse. The Standard &
Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilder Index plunged 21 percent since
the end of June through yesterday, compared with a 8.8 percent
drop in the broader  S&P 500 Index. (SPX)   D.R. Horton Inc., the second-largest homebuilder by
revenue, reported third-quarter earnings that beat analyst
estimates as cost cuts helped the  Fort Worth , Texas-based
company to cushion a decline in revenue.  “Nothing’s really strong out there, and I would reiterate
that most of our markets continue to still be soft, softer, and
softest,” Chief Executive Officer Donald Tomnitz said on a
conference call with investors on July 28. “I would anticipate
that ‘12 will be better than ‘11 but I don’t expect it to be
significantly better,” he said.  A measure of builder confidence held at 15 in August,
according to a report yesterday from the National Association of
Home Builders/Wells Fargo.  Readings below 50 mean more
respondents said conditions were poor.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  