-- 
On Euro Bonds, Europe’s Politicians Lag Behind the Market: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-08-16T00:00:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/on-euro-bonds-europe-s-politicians-lag-behind-the-market-view.html
Spokesmen for German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  have said
that their bosses won’t talk about euro bonds when they meet
today in Paris.  That would pretty much make them the only Europeans not
talking about the financial instrument that could rescue  Europe 
from its growing debt crisis.  Since the idea was first seriously floated more than a year
ago, euro bonds have won considerable support. These securities
would be jointly issued and guaranteed by all 17 countries using
the common currency, replacing all or some of the individual
countries’ debts. We agree with the market players -- investors,
economists, business groups, traders -- who see euro bonds as
the best way to end the continent’s debt woes. Now the
politicians need to come aboard.  It’s understandable why Merkel and Sarkozy might resist.
Euro bonds would violate a central tenet of the currency bloc:
Each country is responsible for its own finances. The debate
also highlights the power struggle between Brussels and the
national capitals. Until now, more power has resided with the
national leaders. The birth of euro bonds would require a new,
region-wide fiscal authority with the ability to influence
taxing and spending; the creation of such an entity would
reshape the political landscape at a stroke.  Further Timidity  These are important considerations, but they are outweighed
by the risks of further timidity. The crisis has already spread
from the tiny economies of  Greece  and Portugal to the
heavyweights of Italy and  Spain . A July 21 euro-area agreement
to bolster the region’s rescue vehicle, the European Financial
Stability Facility, failed to calm markets. Now even  France  is
seen as vulnerable. The longer Merkel and Sarkozy shy away from
big steps, the more expensive it will become to rescue the euro.
The euro experiment itself may be at stake, not to mention the
global economy.  There is no way here to divorce economics from politics.
German opposition to euro bonds remains formidable. Many voters
and important figures in Merkel’s governing coalition and
cabinet, including Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble , are
against the idea. The hostility stems from the high price
Germans paid to finance unification in the 1990s. Germans bit
the bullet then, and they are hard-pressed to see why the Greeks
and others shouldn’t do the same. Merkel’s coalition partners,
the Free Democrats, are becoming the German equivalent of the
 Tea Party  with their strong anti-tax, anti-bailout views.  Changing Calculus  Still, the calculus for Merkel is changing, and she may be
better off taking the political risk of backing euro bonds and
trying to sell the concept to voters. No country has gained more
than Germany from the common currency, helping it sustain an
export-powered economy. German exporters drove that point home
yesterday by endorsing the euro bond idea.  What’s more, further piecemeal bailouts -- the sure cost of
putting off euro bonds -- would only stoke voter anger and
jeopardize the dwindling prospects of her  Christian Democratic
Union  in 2013 elections. All six regular opinion polls suggest
that the opposition  Social Democratic Party  and the resurgent
 Green Party , which both support euro bonds, would win if the
election were held today.  The main fear of German taxpayers is that mutual borrowing
through euro bonds will push up  Germany ’s debt costs. It’s not
necessarily so: The size of the market would be similar to that
for U.S. Treasuries, making euro bonds an attractive asset for
investors looking to park money at minimal cost.  Liquidity Premium   This liquidity premium could even lower Germany’s borrowing
costs, according to economists at the Brussels-based think-tank
Bruegel. And a unified finance ministry could easily exert the
control over individual countries’ finances that many in
Merkel’s party desire.  Sarkozy, too, should be looking more favorably at euro
bonds now that the crisis is at his doorstep. He faces voters in
eight months -- and the French economy has stalled out. Slow
growth means less  tax revenue , higher safety-net expenses and
increasing debt costs. French voters seem more sympathetic to a
tighter fiscal union, but Sarkozy has refrained from moving too
far ahead of Merkel on such a controversial topic.  The best thing Merkel and Sarkozy could do to restore
balance in the European economy is get in step with each other -
- and then join with their neighbors, both stable and shaky, in
creating euro bonds.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 