-- 
U.K. Bank Investors Chided as Vickers Returns Firms to 1950s

-- B y   L i a m   V a u g h a n ,   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 
2011-09-13T11:22:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/london-financial-job-vacancies-decline-10-in-july-survey-says.html
The  Independent Commission on
Banking  had a warning for investors as the government-appointed
panel published its report on the future of the country’s
financial industry.  “If you live in a world in which the real rate of interest
on safe  government bonds , bonds that the world regards as safe,
is about half a percent or less, you might wonder whether you
can reasonably expect a reasonably safe return of 15 percent on
equity in a bank,” Martin Wolf, one of five members of the
commission and a columnist for the Financial Times, told
reporters in  London  yesterday. Shareholder expectations “are
just a little bit unrealistic,” he said.  U.K. banks are bracing for higher funding costs, increased
competition and reduced profitability after the  report 
recommended lenders should build firewalls between their
consumer units and investment banks and raise up to what
analysts estimate could be as much as 200 billion pounds ($316
billion) in additional loss-absorbing capital. The changes will
require as much 7 billion pounds a year in implementation and
funding costs, said the commission, which was headed by former
Bank of England Chief Economist  John Vickers , 53.  “We are seeing a return to a more simple 1950s style of
retail banking, where it is perceived as more of a basic utility
with low return on equity for shareholders,” said Jon Pain, co-
head of KPMG’s Regulatory Centre of Excellence in Europe in
London.  Government Approval Needed  Vickers’ proposals must be approved by the government and
lobbying from banks remains intense as lenders struggle with
declining revenue and the threat of losses related to the
European sovereign debt crisis, which is raising the cost of
borrowing in the wholesale money markets. The plan is to be
implemented by 2019 under the commission’s proposed schedule.  “These reforms are likely to make it more difficult for
the U.K. banks to return to their already modest target levels
of return on equity,” said Leigh Goodwin, a bank analyst at
Citigroup Inc. in London. “The U.K. has the toughest liquidity
requirements and among the toughest  capital requirements . There
has to be an impact on lending and on the competitiveness of
U.K. banks.”  Bank Shares Decline  Return on equity at  Barclays Plc (BARC) , the U.K.’s second-biggest
bank by assets, was 5.2 percent at the end of the first half of
the year. In February, the bank reduced that goal to 13 percent
from an average of 18 percent over the past three decades.
 Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , the U.K.’s largest mortgage lender,
and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , Britain’s biggest
government-controlled bank, are targeting return on equity of
14.5 percent and 15 percent, respectively. Lloyds and RBS both
reported losses in the first half.  Barclays and RBS shares have both fallen 46 percent, while
Lloyds lost 53 percent. The 46-member Bloomberg  Europe  Banks and
Financial Services Index declined 37 percent.  “Although the rules are designed to make the sector safer
in the long run, which we welcome, complex, costly regulation
imposed unilaterally risks the international competitiveness of
the U.K. banking sector,” said Jeremy Whitley, who helps manage
186 billion pounds as head of U.K. and European equities at
Aberdeen Asset Management in London.  Funding Costs  The biggest threat to lenders is a jump in the cost of
funding for their investment-banking divisions as the implicit
government guarantee is removed, say analysts. Goodwin estimates
the new rules will mean banks may have to pay an additional 1 to
2 percentage points interest when issuing debt, eating into
profits. Investors are also likely to demand higher returns if
rating companies downgrade banks once the subsidy deriving from
implicit government support is removed, Goodwin said.  “Fifteen percent return on equity is not a realistic
return,” said Ismail Erturk, a senior lecturer of 24 years on
banking at  Manchester Business School  in Manchester,  England .
“It has never been sustainable. It is market pressure on banks
to deliver this return, which puts pressure on banks to take
lots of risk.”  If the recommendations are implemented, the so-called ring-
fenced units will include all checking accounts, mortgages,
credit cards and lending to small- and medium-sized companies,
the report said. As much as a third of U.K. bank assets, or
about 2.3 trillion pounds, will be walled off, while trading and
investment-banking activities will be excluded. Ring-fenced
banks should have an independent board, the report said.  New Capital Levels  The commission also recommended that the largest U.K. banks
bolster equity capital ratios of 10 percent with an added layer
of 7 percent to 10 percent of risk-weighted assets in unsecured
bail-in bonds, which leave investors liable for losses if a
lender gets into trouble, or contingent convertible bonds, which
convert into equity if capital falls below a specific level.  “There is no clarity on how banks are supposed to reach
this 17 percent to 20 percent loss-absorbency level by 2019,”
said  Ian Gordon , head of banks research at Evolution Securities
Ltd. in London. “They seem to be assuming there is some deep,
liquid, well-priced market for bail-in bonds. There is no market
for senior debt at the moment, let alone demand for a hybrid
instrument with equity features when nobody wants them. The
costs of implementation are clearly going to be material. The
whole thing is bad news for the banks.”  Costs at Record  European banks’ costs as a proportion of market value are
already at a record, according to Deutsche Bank AG analysts, who
say lenders will have to undergo a process of “serious
rationalization” and cost cutting before they will be
considered attractive by investors again. Costs at the 47
European banks that Deutsche Bank covers have increased to 314
billion euros ($426 billion) from 302 billion euros in 2008,
analysts led by  Matt Spick  said in an Aug. 25 note to investors.  “Any further reform measures adopted by the U.K.
authorities need to be carefully analyzed and compared with
those agreed internationally,” the  British Bankers’ Association 
said in a statement yesterday. “It is vital that the full
impact any further reforms will have on the economy, the
recovery and banks’ ability to support their customers in the
U.K. is understood.”  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne , 40, said the
government will pass a bill by the end of the current
parliamentary session in 2015.  “We should not confuse the interest of bank shareholders
with those of British taxpayers,” Osborne told parliament.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net ;
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  