-- 
Loose Money Will Keep Economy From Sliding Away: Ramesh Ponnuru

-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 
2011-08-16T00:00:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/loose-money-will-keep-economy-from-sliding-away-ramesh-ponnuru.html
The  Federal Reserve  is now the
subject of more political controversy than at any point since
the beginning of the 1980s.  The debate centers on what the Washington Post calls its
“ ultra-easy ” monetary policy: Is it hurting or helping the
economy? Has the Fed already loosened so much that it has used
up its ability to stimulate the economy?  It’s a heated debate, but its premise happens to be wrong.
We don’t have loose money, and we haven’t during our entire
economic slump. A big reason that slump has been so deep and
long is that the Fed is keeping money tight: It’s not letting
the money supply increase enough to keep current-dollar spending
growing at its historical rate.  That view sounds crazy to a lot of people. They look at low
interest rates, soaring commodities prices and an expanded  money
supply , and assume that these are clear indications of easy
money. And sometimes these conditions do reflect monetary ease.  But not always. The late great  Milton Friedman  looked at
 Japan ’s lost decade and grasped that its low interest rates
were, counterintuitively, a sign of tight money: The  Bank of
Japan  had choked the life out of the economy by keeping the
money supply too low, and that’s what kept interest rates down.  Short-term moves in commodity prices are not reliable
evidence of inflation, either. Otherwise we would have to
conclude that we have loose money any time Asian consumption of
precious metals increases, or there’s a disruption of the oil
markets.  As for the money supply, its increase signifies looseness
only if the demand for money balances stays constant. If the
supply rises but demand rises even faster, then the central bank
has, perhaps inadvertently, allowed money to tighten.  A Better Baseline  These are not just theoretical possibilities. The Fed of
the early 1930s offers us history’s most disastrous example of
extremely tight money, but at the time low  interest rates  and an
expanded monetary base misled central bankers into thinking
their policies were loose. By not sufficiently accommodating
increased demand for money balances, the Fed allowed nominal
spending to collapse.  You can’t figure out whether monetary policy is loose or
tight, in short, without picking the right baseline against
which to judge it. The baseline that makes the most sense at the
moment can be found in the record of the so-called Great
Moderation, from 1987 to 2007. During that time, Fed policies
kept the size of the economy growing at a fairly stable 5
percent a year in current dollars. (Inflation averaged 2
percent, real growth 3 percent.) That stability, in turn,
anchored expectations about how easy it would be to repay
nominal debts.  Recession Reaction  By this measure, money was loose during the closing period
of the Great Moderation, also known as the housing bubble:
Nominal growth in gross domestic product was above trend. Since
then, though, money has been tight. In 2008, the recession and
the financial panic sent the demand for money balances sharply
upward. (In other words, the “velocity” of money -- the rate at
which it changes hands -- dropped.)  The Fed, partly because it was worried that a surge in
commodity prices presaged future inflation, didn’t increase the
money supply enough to accommodate that demand. Making matters
worse, it instituted a policy of paying banks interest on
reserves, which discourages lending and money creation.  The results are all around us. Instead of rising, inflation
fell, and has stayed low. Nominal GDP fell faster than at any
other point in the last six decades. To return to the pre-crisis
trendline, nominal GDP would have to grow by more than 5 percent
annually for a few years. Neither round of the Fed’s
quantitative easing brought us close to that level. In per-
capita terms, nominal GDP is actually below where it was at the
start of the crisis.  A New Target  When nominal GDP falls below expectations, people find the
burden of their nominal debts -- such as mortgages --
unexpectedly rising. Uncertainty about the economic outlook
increases, and makes consumers and businesses more skittish than
they otherwise would be.  Economics professor and blogger  David Beckworth  suggests
that the Fed should abandon interest-rate targeting and instead
announce that it will do whatever it takes -- from further
quantitative easing to throwing money out of a helicopter -- to
restore nominal GDP to trend.  If markets believe the Fed will follow through,
expectations of the future path of nominal spending will adjust
upward and that should, in turn, increase nominal spending
levels right now. Part of that increase would take the form of
an uptick in inflation -- which markets currently expect to be
extremely low for the next decade -- but part of it would also
be increased economic activity.  Ending the Fed’s tight-money policies need not punish
savers, as is often alleged, because a healthy economic recovery
should raise real returns. Conservatives are suspicious of any
loosening because they think of it as a government intervention
in the free market. But they are wrong. A central bank that
keeps the supply of money too low is just as interventionist as
one that keeps it too high.  There’s a strong case against central banking itself --
against, that is, having a government agency with vast
discretion over the money supply. But as long as we have one, it
ought to set the best policy it can. And as long as we’re
debating its conduct, we ought to be asking the right questions.  (Ramesh Ponnuru is a Bloomberg View columnist and a senior
editor at National Review. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this article:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 