-- 
TD Card Deal Caps $20 Billion in Canadian Bank Purchases

-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 
2011-08-16T20:42:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/toronto-dominion-card-deal-caps-20-billion-in-canadian-bank-buying-spree.html
Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ’s agreement to
buy  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s credit-card business in Canada caps
a $20 billion buying spree for Canadian lenders taking advantage
of their relative strength to pick up assets from U.S. firms.  Toronto-Dominion Bank yesterday agreed to pay C$7.5 billion
($7.6 billion) for Bank of America’s Canadian MasterCard
portfolio. The purchase comes almost five months after the
Toronto-based lender bought Chrysler Financial Corp. for $6.3
billion and follows U.S. purchases by Bank of Montreal and
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce over the past 12 months.  Canadian banks, ranked the soundest by the  World Economic
Forum  the past three years, have snapped up assets as troubled
foreign lenders retreat from Canada and U.S. banks unload units
to shore up their capital.  “Canadian banks are sitting with strong balance sheets and
strong and resilient earnings streams have given them the
flexibility to do these things,” Robert Sedran, an analyst at
 CIBC World Markets , said in a telephone interview. “If these
assets are being shaken loose, you can expect the Canadians to
continue to participate.”  Canadian banks were involved in a record $16 billion of
announced acquisitions last year, including  Bank of Montreal (BMO) ’s
purchase of failed Illinois lender Amcore Bank, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Announced purchases have been about
$12.6 billion in 2011, according to Bloomberg data.  Profits Rising  Driven by lower loan-loss provisions, Canadian banks may
post average profit growth of 13 percent when the group begins
reporting fiscal third-quarter results this month, Sedran said.
Canada’s jobless rate fell last month to the lowest since 2008,
while  home prices  climbed to a record in July. U.S. home values
have slumped to the lowest in about 10 years.  An index of Standard & Poor’s/TSX financial stocks traded
last week for 20 percent more than an index of S&P financial
companies relative to forecast earnings, the highest in almost
three years.  Toronto-Dominion was downgraded today to “neutral” from
“outperform” by Macquarie Capital Markets analyst Sumit Malhotra on concern the bank will “encounter heightened revenue
pressure in the U.S.”  Toronto-Dominion fell 62 cents to C$76.26 at 4 p.m. in
trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange. The stock has risen 2.7
percent this year.  Profit estimates for Bank of America and other large U.S.
lenders may need to be slashed by as much as 30 percent if
economic growth slows to 1 percent or less, analysts at Deutsche
Bank AG said last week. The analysts were looking at consensus
estimates for 2012 and 2013.  Selling Assets  Lenders including Bank of America, the largest U.S. bank,
and  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the No. 3 lender, have been selling assets
to comply with new Basel III capital requirements, and to focus
on its consumer-banking customers.  Toronto-Dominion’s cash purchase of Bank of America’s MBNA
Canada unit includes a C$100 million premium and Canada’s
second-largest bank will assume about C$1.1 billion in
liabilities. The purchase makes Toronto-Dominion the largest
MasterCard issuer in the country, and increases its credit-card
customer base by almost 50 percent.  “It’s incredibly strategic for us,” Tim Hockey, Toronto-
Dominion’s group head of Canadian banking, said in an interview
yesterday. “We think of credit cards as being part of a very
important and growing part of the payments business.”  Insurance Sales  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , the New York-based
insurer bailed out by the U.S. government, also unloaded some of
its operations north of the border. The company sold its
Canadian mortgage insurer in April 2010 to a group led by the
 Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan , and in 2009 sold its Canadian
life insurance unit to Bank of Montreal for C$375 million.  Canadian Imperial, the country’s fifth-biggest bank, bought
Citigroup’s $2 billion Canadian MasterCard portfolio in a C$1.2
billion deal last year. CIBC also bought the 50 percent of CIT
Business Credit Canada that it didn’t already own in April 2010
from  CIT Group Inc. (CIT)   Intact Financial Corp., the country’s largest property and
casualty insurer, agreed in May to buy the Canadian unit of AXA
SA for C$2.6 billion.  Canadian financial firms have also been expanding outside
 Canada . Bank of Montreal, the fourth-biggest bank, completed its
takeover of Wisconsin lender Marshall & Ilsley Corp. last month
for about $4.56 billion plus a $1.73 billion payment to the U.S.
government under the Troubled Asset Relief Program. Toronto-
Dominion now has more branches in the U.S. than in Canada after
buying banks in  New England  and the New York area.  “They’re very strategic,”  Bob Decker , a  money manager  at
Aurion Capital Management in Toronto, said in a telephone
interview. “They’re taking advantage of tuck-under acquisitions
concentrated in their core areas, like the Midwest for Bank of
Montreal and Northeast for TD.”  Canadian Imperial agreed July 15 to buy a 41 percent stake
in American Century Investments from  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  for
$848 million to expand its asset-management business.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  