-- 
Motorola Mobility Investor Suit Says $12.5 Billion Google Bid Is Too Low

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-08-16T23:06:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/motorola-mobility-investor-suit-says-12-5-billion-google-bid-is-too-low.html
Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. and
its chief executive officer, Sanjay Jha, were sued by a
shareholder claiming they failed to get the best price when they
agreed to sell the company for $12.5 billion to  Google Inc. (GOOG)   Investor John W. Keating’s complaint, which was filed
yesterday at the state courthouse in  Chicago , also names Google
and nine members of Motorola Mobilty’s board as defendants. The
companies announced their agreement earlier in the day.  “The offered consideration does not compensate
shareholders for the company’s intrinsic value and stand-alone
alternatives going forward, nor does it compensate shareholders
for the company’s value as a strategic asset for Google,”
Keating claims.  Google, the biggest maker of smartphone software, agreed to
purchase Motorola Mobility in a transaction that would pay
Motorola shareholders $40 a share in cash, or 63 percent more
than the stock’s closing price on Aug. 12.  The boards of  Mountain View , California-based Google and
Motorola Mobility, based in Libertyville,  Illinois , approved the
transaction, the companies have said.  If the acquisition receives U.S. Justice Department
antitrust clearance, Google will also gain about 17,000 Motorola
Mobility patents. The company has been embroiled in patent
lawsuits worldwide with rival  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  -- the maker of the
iPhone -- and Microsoft Corp., which has developed proprietary
Windows Phone technologies.  Google handsets, made by Samsung Electronics Co.,  HTC Corp. (2498) 
and Motorola run its Android system.  11 Million Devices  Motorola Mobility, spun off from Motorola Inc. in January,
sold 11 million devices including 4.4 million smartphones and
440,000 tablet computers last quarter, it said last month,
reporting net revenue of $3.3 billion in the second quarter, a
28 percent increase from the same period a year earlier.  “Motorola has experienced an economic resurgence since
separating into two separate companies,” Keating said in a
complaint filed on behalf of all Motorola Mobility stockholders.
“The Android smartphone technology it relies on continues to
gain ground on Apple’s iPhone.”  Motorola Mobility shareholders now will be unable to share
in the company’s future successes, he said.  Keating accused the individual board members of breaching
their duty to investors and claims Motorola Mobility and Google
aided and abetted that breach.  He is seeking class-action, or group, status for the case,
an order declaring the agreement is unenforceable and an order
barring the completion of the sale.  Jennifer Erickson , a Motorola Mobility spokeswoman, said
the company hadn’t yet had an opportunity to review the
complaint and that she and couldn’t comment on it. Google
declined to comment, Katelin Todhunter-Gerberg, a company
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  The case is Keating v. Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc.,
11CH28854, in the Cook County, Illinois, Circuit Court,  Chancery
Division  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  