-- 
Pakistan Seeks Local Funds for Iran Gas Deal Opposed by U.S.

-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 
2011-08-17T10:07:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/pakistan-to-borrow-300-million-to-fund-gas-pipeline-from-iran.html
Pakistan  plans to borrow $300
million from local banks to build a pipeline that will carry
natural gas from neighboring Iran, easing its worst energy
crisis that is curbing economic growth.  Local state-owned companies will provide about $210 million
in equity for the $1.3 billion pipeline, said Mobin Saulat,
acting managing director of  Inter State Gas Systems Ltd. , the
agency responsible for the project. Pakistan may approach
foreign companies including OAO Gazprom, International Petroleum
Investment Co. and China National Petroleum Corp. for the rest
of the financing, he said.  “We’ve done the market testing to see the appetite among
local banks,” Saulat said in an interview Aug. 11. “The signal
we’ve got is that around $300 million can be raised from a local
consortium.”  Domestic funding is crucial because U.S. and international
sanctions against  Iran , imposed over concerns that the country
is trying to build nuclear weapons, are likely to block Western
and multilateral funding.  Pakistan is pursuing the Iranian gas deal as its ties with
the U.S. have come under strain this year following a seven-week
standoff over Pakistan’s detention of an American CIA contractor
who had killed two Pakistanis, and the May assault by American
forces that killed al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden in the
Pakistani town of Abbottabad.  Fuel Shortages  “The biggest question mark on this project is still the
availability of funding,” said Hasan-Askari Rizvi, a Lahore-
based analyst. “There are signs that the Americans are
softening their opposition to this project given the severity of
the energy crisis in Pakistan.”  Fuel shortages in Pakistan have forced the government to
ration supplies, cutting power for as much as half the day in
major cities and triggering street protests against the
government of Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani .  Inter State Gas, based in Islamabad, is responsible for
completion of the pipeline by 2014, a deadline agreed on by the
two countries last year after political and security concerns
delayed the project by a decade. Under an accord signed in June
2010, Iran will provide about 21.5 million cubic meters of gas a
day to Pakistan for 25 years. The deal can be extended by five
years and volumes may rise to 30 million cubic meters a day.  The U.S. last year tightened its sanctions, which target
Iran’s energy sector, and the administration of President  Barack Obama  has  publicly supported  an alternative gas pipeline project,
from  Turkmenistan  to  Afghanistan , Pakistan and  India , that would
bypass Iran.  Sanctions  Economic sanctions by the  United Nations , the EU and the
U.S. over  Iran’s nuclear program  have discouraged investment in
the Persian Gulf country. Royal Dutch Shell Plc,  Europe ’s
biggest oil company, and Repsol YPF SA of  Spain  pulled out of a
project in Iran’s South Pars gas field last year.  China National Petroleum, known as CNPC, replaced Total SA
at the field in 2009 after the French company postponed an
investment citing Iran’s strained relations with the West.  “So far, the sanctions primarily focus on development of
the fields,” Saulat said. “Iran is currently engaged in
exporting gas to  Turkey  through a pipeline and importing gas
from Turkmenistan. There was never a pipeline-specific
sanction.”  State-owned companies that may collectively buy a majority
stake in the planned pipeline include  Government Holdings Ltd. ,
Sui Southern Gas Co. and  Sui Northern Gas Pipeline (SNGP) , he said.
Pakistan is seeking $900 million in debt and $400 million in
equity funding for the project.  Overseas Companies  Gazprom, the Russian gas-export monopoly, International
Petroleum Investment, an arm of the Abu Dhabi government, and
CNPC have all shown interest in the venture, Saulat said.
Gazprom may fund and help build the 780-kilometer (485-mile)
pipeline, he said, declining to elaborate.  Liu Weijiang , Beijing-based director of CNPC’s
international department, didn’t answer three calls to his
office and mobile phones. Calls and an e-mail to an IPIC
spokesman yesterday after business hours in the Ramadan holy
month weren’t immediately returned. A press officer at Gazprom,
who couldn’t be identified in line with company policy, declined
to say whether the company is interested in the project.  Pakistan’s gas shortfall is forecast to reach 2.22 billion
cubic feet a day in the fiscal year that began July 1, according
to government data. The shortage has forced the government to
ration supplies to cars that run on compressed natural gas,
while the biggest cities have faced blackouts for as long as 12
hours a day.  Energy Mix  Last year, 53 percent of Pakistan’s energy came from
natural gas, 30 percent from oil and the rest from coal, nuclear
and hydropower, according to data from BP Plc. Pakistan produced
39.5 billion cubic meters of gas in 2010, or 3.8 billion cubic
feet a day, according to BP.  Inter State Gas invited banks last month to help arrange
the funding and plans to seek bids for construction next month,
Saulat said.  The pipeline will carry gas from the South Pars field via
Baluchistan province in southwest Pakistan to an off-take point
in Nawabshah. South Pars, which extends from Qatar’s North Field,
is the largest known gas deposit in the world.  “We are doing things in parallel for the expeditious
completion of this project,” Saulat said. “There is a huge
shortfall and we need to work on many options to meet that
growing demand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  