-- 
Pemex Bonds Trading Safest to Petrobras in Year: Mexico Credit

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n   a n d   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 
2011-08-17T02:20:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/pemex-bonds-trading-safest-to-petrobras-in-year-mexico-credit.html
The cost of insuring against a
default by  Petroleos Mexicanos  is falling to the lowest in
almost a year relative to Brazilian counterpart  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  as the Mexican producer curbs overseas debt sales.  Credit-default swap contracts for Pemex, as the Mexico
City-based company is known, traded at 158 basis points
yesterday, or 49 below those for Brazil’s state-controlled crude
producer, according to data provider CMA. The gap, the biggest
since Aug. 18, 2010, has swelled from 31 basis points, or 0.31
percentage point, at the end of July.  While Pemex is cutting international bond offerings to a
three-year low, Petrobras, as the Rio de Janeiro-based company
is known, is stepping up debt sales as slowing global growth
crimps demand for emerging-market assets. Pemex sold $2.5
billion of bonds abroad this year, compared with $6 billion in
issuance for Petrobras. The Brazilian oil producer plans to
spend $224 billion in the five years through 2014 to finance
investments, or about 67 percent more annually than Pemex.  “People are anticipating much more supply out of Petrobras
than Pemex,” Jack Deino, who oversees about $1.8 billion in
emerging-market debt at Invesco Inc., said in a telephone
interview. “Everybody knows that Petrobras is going to need to
issue a lot of bonds sooner or later. Unless you’re looking at
really low-hanging fruit, it’s not positive from a credit
perspective.”  Pemex’s dollar bonds due in 2021 yield 4.52 percent as of
yesterday, or two basis points less than similar-maturity
Petrobras debt, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Oil Prices   “The perception of Pemex risk has been favorable despite
the recent market volatility since the company’s indebtedness
has been moderate this year,” Pemex said in an e-mailed
response to questions.  Five-year credit-default swaps for Pemex have climbed 22
basis points in the past month as slowing global growth reduces
demand for crude oil, compared with an increase of 39 for
Petrobras contracts, according to CMA, which is owned by CME
Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. It costs 140 basis points to
protect dollar bonds sold by the Brazilian and Mexican
governments.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meets its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  Oil futures for September delivery slumped 15 percent to a
10-month low of $79.30 per barrel last week before posting gains
in the past few days.  ‘Less Daunting’  “The recent downdraft in oil prices favors Pemex’s name
more so than Petrobras’s name, given its less daunting capital
expenditure demands they have in front of them,”  Michael Roche ,
an emerging-market strategist at MF Global in  New York , said in
a telephone interview.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries rose six basis points to
180 today, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The peso fell 0.2 percent to 12.2575 per  U.S. dollar .  “This is a very short-term fluctuation,” Petrobras Chief
Financial Officer Almir Barbassa told reporters yesterday in  Rio
de Janeiro . “We’re looking at projects for the medium- and
long-term. What’s happening in the CDS market, credit default
swaps, is a story of people speculating in this market. They’re
not buying a bond to get a return.”  Pemex,  Latin America ’s largest oil producer, will invest
about $27 billion a year during the next decade to reverse a
six-year decline in oil output, according to company
presentations this year. The company plans to sell as much as 15
billion pesos ($1.2 billion) of bonds in three local offerings,
according to an e-mailed statement from  Standard & Poor’s .  ‘Playing Catch-up’  Petrobras’s investment plan is aimed at developing fields
located deep beneath a layer of salt under the ocean floor that
are the Western Hemisphere’s largest discoveries in about three
decades.  “Petrobras looks particularly better because it already
has the oil finds,” Luz Padilla, who manages about $400 million
of debt as head of DoubleLine Capital LP’s emerging-market
fixed-income fund in  Los Angeles . “Pemex is playing catch-up.
They will need to invest. Going forward, 10 to 20 years from
now, I could easily see Petrobras being a much more significant
player than Pemex and leaving Pemex behind.”  Pemex’s net debt relative to earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization fell to 1.9 times at the
end of 2010, according to data compiled by S&P analyst Fabiola Ortiz. The measure was 2.1 times in the same period for
Petrobras, S&P data show.  Net Income  Pemex posted net income of 9.1 billion pesos ($740 million)
in the second quarter, its biggest profit since 2008, up from a
net loss of 20.1 billion pesos a year earlier. Petrobras, the
world’s fifth-largest oil producer by market value, said second-
quarter profit rose 32 percent to 10.9 billion reais.  The Mexican government’s full control of Pemex suggests the
company is likely to receive support in the case of distress,
giving investors more comfort, MF Global’s Roche said.  Brazil ’s
government owns more than half of Petrobras voting shares.  With Petrobras, “you have mixed state-private sector
ownership with a demanding capex schedule,” Roche said. “That
accounts for a performance that’s worse than a more known
quantity in the form of a Pemex. Matters of this sort do convert
into a most definitive basis-point differential for that
perceived comfort through the degree of the sovereign’s presence
in the ownership structure.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 Pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  