-- 
Polish Bond Investors Curb Inflation Bets as Rate Cut Becomes More Likely

-- B y   M o n i k a   R o z l a l
-- 
2011-08-17T14:22:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/polish-bond-investors-curb-inflation-bets-as-rate-cut-becomes-more-likely.html
Bond investors in  Poland  have been
reducing inflation bets after consumer-price growth unexpectedly
slowed in July, suggesting the first interest-rate cut in more
than two years is on the cards.  The yield spread between inflation-linked and fixed-rate
notes, a measure of investor expectations over the next five
years, is hovering near a 10-month low of 233 basis points,
implying an average annual inflation rate of 2.3 percent over
the next five years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Consumer-price increases slowed to 4.1 percent from a year
earlier in July from 4.3 percent in June.  The  Narodowy Bank Polski , which raised its benchmark seven-
day interest rate by 1 percentage point to 4.5 percent between
January and June, left borrowing costs unchanged last month,
saying monetary tightening may be enough to bring the inflation
rate down to its 2.5 percent target next year.  “The market started betting on rate cuts as it would be
irrational to expect the central bank to continue restrictive
policy -- it’s clear economic growth will be its main concern
now” said  Krzysztof Izdebski , who helps manage as much as 8
billion zloty in debt and stocks at Union Investment TFI SA in
Warsaw. “If growth slows drastically, we should see a change of
direction in monetary policy.”  Money markets show confidence the central bank has ended
monetary tightening after raising borrowing costs four times
this year. Six-month forward rate agreements are trading 19
basis points below the three-month Warsaw Interbank Offered
Rate, pointing to a quarter-point cut in borrowing costs for the
first time since June 2006, compared with 61 basis points at the
beginning of 2011.  Eastern  Europe ’s Inflation  Inflation is slowing across eastern Europe, with Hungary’s
annual rate falling in July for a third month to 3.1 percent,
the lowest in more than two years,  Russia ’s dropping to 9
percent from 9.4 percent and the Czech rate declining to 1.7
from 1.8 percent.  “If inflation continues to decelerate I will vote for
interest rate cuts,”  Andrzej Kazmierczak  of the Monetary Policy
Council, told  Thomson Reuters  in an interview published
yesterday, adding that cuts are likely within the next 12
months.  The difference in yields between Poland’s inflation-linked
and fixed-rate bonds, known as the breakeven rate, is near the
central bank target, having narrowed from 338 basis points about
five months ago. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Slowing Growth  Slowing economic growth may also encourage monetary policy
makers to lower borrowing costs. Second-quarter gross domestic
product probably rose 4.2 percent from a year earlier, slowing
from 4.4 percent in the previous three months, according to a
Bloomberg survey of 17 economists. The statistics office in
Warsaw will release the data on Aug. 30.  “The declining inflation rate and slowing economic growth
in the second half will keep the Monetary Policy Council from
further tightening,” Monika Kurtek, chief economist at Bank
Pocztowy in Warsaw, said by phone on Aug. 11. “If it nears the
central bank’s target in the first quarter, which is very
likely, and the economy continues slowing down, a rate cut
between the first and second quarter can’t be ruled out.”  Yields on inflation-linked notes maturing 2016 climbed 6
basis point since the beginning of this year to 2.766 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on Poland’s
fixed-rate bonds due 2016 fell 45 basis points during the same
period.  ‘Main Concern’  The inflation rate will be within the target range of 1.5
percent to 3.5 percent next year, the central bank said in its
July projections, published every fourth month. For 2013, the
bank lowered its outlook to 1.8 percent to 3.4 percent, from the
March estimate of 2.1 percent to 3.7 percent.  “Inflation isn’t the main concern anymore,” said Jakub Taborowicz, who manages a 1.5 billion-zloty ($520 million)
fixed-income portfolio for the asset-management unit of Poland’s
top insurer, PZU SA. “The price outlook appears optimistic
given the tightening to date and likely economic slowdown,
though inflation may still be seriously distorted by currency
volatility.”  The  Finance Ministry  on Aug. 12 estimated a 3.5 percent
inflation rate in December, the PAP news service reported,
citing Slawomir Dudek, deputy head of the ministry’s statistics
department.  “Given the sharp deterioration in the global financial
situation and downward pressure on commodity prices we no longer
see major upside inflationary risks in Poland,”  Lars Christensen , chief emerging-market analyst at Danske Bank in
Copenhagen, wrote in an e-mailed comment.  Labor-market figures released today by the Statistical
Office also point to a reduction in price pressures. Average
corporate wages rose 5.2 percent from a year earlier in July,
compared with 5 percent the previous month. Corporate employment
growth slowed to 3.3 percent from 3.6 percent, missing the 3.5
percent median estimate for job growth from a Bloomberg survey
of 16 economists.  “These data confirm the labor market is not generating
inflation pressure so we believe the monetary tightening cycle
has reached an end,” economists at Bank Millennium in Warsaw
wrote in an e-mailed comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monika Rozlal in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  