-- 
Indian Anti-Graft Campaigner Hazare Jailed as Protests Spread Nationwide

-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a
-- 
2011-08-16T11:34:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/police-detain-anti-corruption-protest-leader-anna-hazare-at-new-delhi-home.html
The leader of a  campaign  against
corruption in India was today sent to jail for a week after
being arrested at a house in  New Delhi  hours ahead of a planned
hunger strike in the capital that police had banned.  The detention of veteran social activist Anna Hazare
sparked nationwide demonstrations by flag-waving supporters. In
the capital, up to 1,400 people were detained during protests,
the city’s police chief, B.K. Gupta, said at a press briefing.
Opposition parties forced adjournments in both houses of
parliament.  “This is a struggle for change,” Hazare said in a message
broadcast by television channels that was recorded before his
detention. “We should continue the movement through the path of
non-violence.”  A hunger strike by Hazare in April tapped nationwide anger
over graft cases, including allegations linked to a sale of
mobile-phone licenses in 2008 and last year’s Commonwealth
Games. Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh , whose government has been
weakened by months of protests, used his Independence Day
address yesterday to the nation to urge Hazare to take his
grievances to parliament not the street.  “Public opinion is strongly with the demands made by Anna
Hazare and his team,” said G.V.L. Narasimha Rao, managing
director of New Delhi-based Development & Research Services.
“The public mood has decisively turned against the government
on corruption issues, which will corner it further.”  Police Restrictions  Hazare was sent by a magistrate to New Delhi’s Tihar Jail
for seven days, police spokesman Rajan Bhagat said in a phone
interview. The septuagenarian was scheduled to begin an
indefinite fast to push demands for tougher laws to fight
corruption. Senior members of his movement were also detained.  Hazare’s supporters yesterday rejected police restrictions
on the proposed hunger strike that would have limited it to
three days and curbed the number of people who could attend to
about 5,000, Home Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said at a
press conference today. All those wishing to protest have to
accept conditions imposed on them to protect society, he said.  Television channels broadcast images of protests by
Hazare’s supporters in several cities, including Mumbai,
Bangalore, Kolkata and Hyderabad.  The rally in the capital attracted thousands of people who
milled in streets around the police station where Hazare, who
dresses in the simple white shirt and cap of  India ’s
independence movement, was being held.  ‘Sad Day’  Arun Jaitley, a senior leader of the main opposition
 Bharatiya Janata Party , said the arrest of Hazare marked a
“very sad day for Indian democracy.”  After consultations with Hazare and leading backers, the
government this month presented to parliament a bill to fight
corruption that excludes oversight of a serving prime minister,
judges, parliament and most bureaucrats. The legislation has
been referred to a panel of lawmakers for scrutiny. Critics,
including Hazare, say the proposals in the so-called Lokpal, or
Ombudsman Bill, lack teeth.  “We want a strong Lokpal to prevent corruption in high
places,” Singh said yesterday. “Now, only parliament can
decide what type of Lokpal legislation should be enacted.”  Singh, in the third year of a five-year term, has seen his
legislative agenda stall amid the corruption claims. Two
ministers have resigned over the sale of permits to run mobile-
phone services, which the country’s auditor says may have cost
the exchequer $31 billion.  Yoga Guru  One of them, former telecommunications minister  Andimuthu
Raja , is in Tihar jail while his trial continues. A federal
lawmaker and business executives have also been imprisoned.  Police in June use teargas and batons to break up a protest
camp in New Delhi and forcefully evict yoga guru Swami Ramdev,
who had joined the anti-graft movement.  While Hazare’s first fast forced the government to invite
him and his supporters to join a panel tasked with drafting the
anti-corruption bill, the two sides couldn’t agree on key
features, such as bringing the prime minister under its ambit.  “Those who don’t agree with this bill can put forward
their views to parliament, political parties and even the
press,” Singh said yesterday. “They should not resort to
hunger strikes and fast unto death.”  Corruption poses a risk to sustaining economic growth near
9 percent and winning overseas investment, auditing and
consulting company  KPMG  said in March. India first introduced
anti-corruption legislation in parliament four decades ago.  “The country will not accept” the way the government is
acting against the anti-corruption protesters, said  Prashant
Bhushan , a lawyer in the  Supreme Court  and civil-rights
activist, terming Hazare’s detention “undemocratic.” Hazare’s
team called for renewed countrywide protests tomorrow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Malavika Sharma in New Delhi at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  