-- 
Qantas Switches Focus to Asia With New Units

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-08-16T08:42:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/qantas-forms-asia-unit-japan-budget-venture-to-end-international-losses.html
Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)  Chief Executive
Officer Alan Joyce switched the airline’s focus to Asia with
plans to start two new carriers, betting on the region’s growing
prosperity to end losses at international operations.  Australia ’s largest airline will form a Japanese budget
carrier and an Asia-based full-service unit, while handing some
Europe services to British Airways, it said in a statement
today. Qantas will also order as many as 110 Airbus SAS A320s,
including 78 of the revamped neo version, it said.  The Sydney-based carrier will cut 1,000 jobs and delay the
delivery of six Airbus A380 jets under its plan to reverse A$200
million ($209 million) in annual overseas losses. Qantas intends
to pare its reliance on the Australia- Europe  route after losing
market share to Emirates Airline and because of rising demand in
Asia.  “The growth is going to come from Asia,” said Nachiket Moghe, an analyst with Morningstar Inc. in Auckland. “The
passenger numbers from there continue to grow strongly and
airlines need to position themselves for that.”  Qantas fell 0.3 percent to A$1.525 at the 4:10 p.m. market
close in Sydney, after earlier gaining as much as 4.9 percent.
The stock has fallen 40 percent this year compared with a 10
percent drop in Australia’s benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index.  The airline’s budget unit Jetstar will form a low-cost
carrier in  Japan  with Japan Airlines Co. and  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058) 
Jetstar Japan plans to start domestic flights from  Tokyo ’s
Narita and Osaka’s Kansai airports by the end of 2012 with a
fleet of Airbus A320 jets. It will operate 24 planes within its
“first few years,” Qantas said. Jetstar already has ventures
in  Singapore  and Vietnam.  Singapore,  Kuala Lumpur   Qantas hasn’t decided where to base the new Asian carrier,
which will have a different brand, Joyce told reporters in
Sydney today. Singapore and Kuala Lumpur are potential hubs for
the venture, in which Qantas will likely have a large minority
stake, he said.  “As a nation we used to fly over or via Asia, on our way
to Europe,” Joyce said. “Now, we fly to  Asia , both for
business and relaxation.”  The Asia-Pacific region will be the most profitable
aviation market this year, helped by economic growth in
countries like China and  India , the International Air Transport
Association forecast in June.  On European routes, Qantas will scrap services via Bangkok
and  Hong Kong . Instead, it will focus on flights via its
Singapore hub using A380s. British Airways will take travelers
from Bangkok and Hong Kong to  London  and lease some slots at
Heathrow from Qantas.  Qantas will offer voluntary redundancy packages as it cuts
jobs, Joyce said. A cabin-crew buyout announced in June
attracted about 400 workers.  ‘Intend to Fight’  Qantas’ long-haul pilots union and a labor group
representing check-in, clerical and information-technology staff
criticized the plans for the cuts and the new carriers.  “We intend to fight this,” the Australian Services Union,
the largest employee grouping at Qantas, said in an e-mailed
statement today. “The ASU believes significant numbers of its
members will ultimately be affected by this announcement.”  Transport Minister Anthony Albanese said the job losses
were “regrettable.” He said he plans to enforce rules
governing Qantas, such as requirements for a majority Australian
ownership, a main operation base within the country and a board
two-thirds comprised of local citizens.  Restructuring Costs  The restructuring will cost at least A$350 million, Chief
Financial Officer  Gareth Evans  told reporters in Sydney today.  The company’s forecast for pretax earnings between A$500
million and A$550 million in the 12 months ended June is
unchanged, it said. Qantas reports audited earnings on Aug. 24.  Qantas will delay six on-order A380s by at least five
years, with deliveries only starting in the year beginning June
1, 2018 at the earliest. The airline will have 12 of the double-
decker planes by the end of 2011. Two more will be handed over
before June 2018. The airline will also upgrade nine Boeing Co.
747-400s by the end of next year.  On Americas routes, Qantas will switch its South American
flights to Santiago from  Buenos Aires  to boost cooperation with
Oneworld partner  LAN Airlines SA. (LFL)  The Australian carrier also
intends to develop its partnership with AMR Corp.’s American in
the U.S.  “We cannot fly our own aircraft to every port, but we will
get our passengers wherever they want to go,” Joyce said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  