-- 
Radioactive Iodine Risks May Outweigh Benefit for Some Tumors, Study Finds

-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 
2011-08-16T20:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/radioactive-iodine-risks-may-outweigh-benefit-for-some-tumors-study-finds.html
The use of  radioactive iodine  to
treat thyroid cancer increased 40 percent from 1990 to 2008 even
though the risks may outweigh the benefits for some patients,
particularly those with early-stage tumors, researchers said.  About 56 percent of  thyroid cancer  patients in 2008 were
treated with radioactive iodine, which is used after the thyroid
is removed to treat residual cancer, compared with 40 percent in
1990, according to a study today in the  Journal of the  American
Medical Association . Determining who gets the treatment doesn’t
always depend on how severe the cancer is, researchers found.  Thyroid cancer is the 10th most common cancer in the U.S.
with more than 40,000 people diagnosed with the disease each
year, according to the study authors.  Medical guidelines  suggest
doctors reserve radioactive iodine for the most aggressive
thyroid cancers yet left the option open to physicians for use
in patients with less serious tumors, said  Megan Haymart , the
study’s lead author.  “There are some risks for this, so this rise in use of
radioactive iodine coupled with the fact that it’s not being
tailored to disease severity is somewhat worrisome,” said
Haymart, an assistant professor of internal medicine at the
 University of Michigan  in  Ann Arbor . “There need to be more
studies on which patients need radioactive iodine.”  The number of people diagnosed with thyroid cancer is
rising in the U.S. as doctors find tumors earlier and earlier,
she said. Patients with small, low-risk tumors often do fine
with just thyroid removal and no radioactive iodine, which can
cause secondary cancers and damage to tissues near the thyroid
including salivary glands and tear ducts, Haymart said. Patients
must also stay away from young children for a week and avoid
becoming pregnant for up to a year after treatment.  Cancer Database  Researchers in the study looked at data from 189,219 people
diagnosed with thyroid cancer at 981 hospitals between 1990 and
2008 in the  National Cancer Database , which captures about 85
percent of the thyroid cancers diagnosed in the U.S.  They found an increase in radioactive iodine use across all
tumor types from the least to the most severe.  “For some patients, radioactive iodine is a very important
part of treatment, but for others, the risks may outweigh the
benefit,” she said in a statement.  Those most likely to receive radioactive iodine were
younger, male, had private or government insurance and those
without other health conditions, the researchers found. Those
with the most aggressive cancer were more likely in the study to
receive radioactive iodine than those with stage I. While, those
with stages II and III were just as likely as those with stage
IV cancer to receive the treatment, the paper found.  Treatment Centers  Patients were also more likely to be given radioactive
iodine if they were at hospitals that often treat thyroid
cancers, the researchers said.  “Unfortunately many of the treatment centers tend to lump
all thyroid cancers together and don’t really individualize
their treatment and many patients have an expectation that they
need more treatment when in fact they do not,” said  Irwin
Klein , director of the Thyroid Unit at North Shore University
Hospital in Manhasset,  New York , in a telephone interview today.  “We’re detecting smaller and smaller thyroid tumors,”
said Klein, who was not an author on today’s paper. “While most
people agree that surgery is appropriate to remove those tumors,
the data out there suggests that these patients don’t need to be
treated the way that larger, bulkier tumors are treated with
radioactive iodine.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  