-- 
Rand Gains Versus Euro, South Africa Bonds Rise on Europe Growth Concern

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-08-16T14:02:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/rand-slips-for-first-day-in-5-as-german-data-adds-to-global-growth-concern.html
The rand advanced versus the euro
and bonds extended gains after a report showing European growth
slowed more than economists forecast, fueling speculation of
more currency-debasing monetary stimulus.  South Africa ’s currency gained as much as 1.6 percent to
10.1474 per euro, and traded 0.7 percent stronger at 10.2389 as
of 3:43 p.m. in Johannesburg. The rand rose 0.4 percent to
7.1161 per dollar.  The euro retreated from a three-week high versus the
greenback and weakened against most of its major peers after the
region’s growth slowed to the least since 2009, with Germany’s
expansion almost stalling. The  European Central Bank  spent a
record amount on  government bonds  last week as it began buying
Italian and Spanish securities to contain the region’s debt
crisis. More monetary stimulus may fuel inflation in the euro-
region.  “The ECB has gotten very aggressive, and that’s bullish
for the rand,”  Chris Becker , an analyst at Econometrix Treasury
Management, which advises companies on currency and bond
purchases, said by phone from Johannesburg. “The German and
other EU growth data shows that when the ECB stepped on the
brakes, that resulted in lower growth. They’re going to have to
create more  money supply .”  Gross domestic product in the euro area rose 0.2 percent
from the first quarter, when it increased 0.8 percent, the
European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said today.
Economists had forecast the economy to expand 0.3 percent,
according to a Bloomberg survey. German GDP, adjusted for
seasonal effects, rose 0.1 percent from the first quarter, when
it jumped a revised 1.3 percent, the Federal Statistics Office
said.  U.S. Recovery Doubt  “We already have serious doubts about the U.S. recovery,”  Ian Cruickshanks, head of treasury strategic research at
Johannesburg-based Nedbank Capital, a unit of South Africa’s
fourth-biggest bank, said by phone. “If  Germany , which is the
engine of the EU economy, has marginal growth, that sets the
alarm bells ringing.”  The eurozone accounts for 45 percent of South Africa’s
exports, according to  Department of Trade and Industry  data.
Slowing demand for South Africa’s metal exports would damp
demand for shares in the country’s mining companies and the
currency needed to buy them.  Four-Year Yields Record  Bonds gained, driving the yield on 2015 notes to a record
low, as signs of slowing growth in the U.S. and  Europe  drew
investors to the nation’s relatively high-yielding debt.  The 13.5 percent notes due 2015 added 34 cents to 123.26
rand, pushing the yield down nine basis points, or 0.09
percentage points, to 6.84 percent, the lowest on a closing
basis on record, according data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield
has dropped 111 basis points from its 2011 high reached on March
8.  The rally in South African bonds “is purely foreign-
driven,” Andre Roux, who oversees about 30 billion rand ($4.2
billion) of bonds at Cape Town-based Investec Asset Management,
said by phone. “It is more a response to global yields coming
down; we’re moving in sympathy rather than opposition to them.”  Foreign investors have bought 4.7 billion rand of South
African bonds in the past two weeks, even as they sold 5.9
billion rand of stocks as  risk aversion  rose after  Standard &
Poor’s  cut the U.S.’s credit ratings on Aug. 8. The extra yield
investors receive for buying South African four-year bonds over
 U.S. Treasuries  is 6.13 percentage points, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The spread has widened from 5.11
percentage points on Jan. 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  