-- 
RBA Extends Rate Pause on Global Uncertainty

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-08-16T03:16:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/rba-cites-global-uncertainty-extending-rate-pause.html
Global financial turmoil threatening
the U.S. and European economies turned the  Reserve Bank  of
 Australia  against an interest-rate increase, minutes of its Aug.
2 meeting showed.  “The case against tightening at this meeting was that the
downside risks to demand had probably increased, as a result of
the acute uncertainty in global financial markets,” the minutes
released in Sydney today showed. “This in turn could weaken the
outlook for demand relative to the central forecast and, over
the medium term, dampen the inflation outlook.”  Since Governor  Glenn Stevens  kept the overnight cash rate
target unchanged at 4.75 percent for an eighth straight meeting,
investor confidence has slumped after  Standard & Poor’s  cut the
U.S.’s credit rating and as  Europe ’s debt crisis deepened. That
helped drive down Australian  consumer confidence  and prompted
traders to bet the RBA’s next move will be down.  “The international environment is particularly malignant
right now with financial turmoil on both sides of the North
Atlantic,”  Huw McKay , a senior international economist at
 Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in Sydney, told Bloomberg Television
today. With Australia’s unemployment rate “ticking higher, we
really can’t see any argument for higher  interest rates  and an
increasingly strong argument to lower them.”  Rate Bets  Stevens will lower rates at least 75 basis points by
December, interbank cash-rate futures show. The Australian
dollar was little changed, trading at $1.0489 as of 1:11 p.m. in
Sydney, from $1.0480 before the minutes were released.  Since the Aug. 2 meeting, government and private reports
have shown weaker employment and consumer confidence.  Unemployment last month jumped for the first time since
October 2010, to 5.1 percent, a government report last week
showed. Consumer confidence deteriorated for a fourth straight
month to the lowest level in more than two years and demand for
mortgages grew at the slowest annual pace in June since 1977,
separate reports showed.  “Employment growth had clearly slowed,” policy makers
said in the minutes. “The forward-looking indicators continued
to point to moderate employment growth over the period ahead,
although the staff’s liaison with businesses indicated some
caution in hiring plans.”  Steel Jobs  Australia’s biggest airline and the nation’s second-largest
steelmaker announced today they will cut a total of 1,400 jobs.  Sydney-based Qantas Airways Ltd. said it will make changes
to its international business to make it profitable, involving
the loss of 1,000 positions.  OneSteel Ltd. (OST) , also based in
Sydney, said second-half net income dropped 19 percent,
prompting the company to shed 400 jobs at its Australian
manufacturing and distribution units by year end.  The RBA’s decision to hold rates was taken a day after the
 U.S. Congress  finished legislation to raise the country’s debt
limit and avert a potential default. Three days after the RBA
meeting, S&P lowered the U.S.’s credit rating to AA+ from AAA, a
move that caused equity-market turmoil the following week.  “Significantly, the downside risks had become more
pronounced recently,” policy makers said in the minutes,
referring to prospects for the global economy.  Stevens’s decision to leave the developed world’s highest
benchmark rate unchanged came a week after a government report
showed the RBA’s two preferred measures of annual inflation
accelerated to 2.7 percent in the second quarter, compared with
a gain of about 2.3 percent in the first quarter.  Currency Record  The price data helped push the Australian dollar to $1.1081
on July 27, the strongest level since exchange controls were
scrapped in 1983. It also prompted the RBA’s board to consider
tightening monetary policy, the minutes showed.  The central bank aims to keep underlying inflation in a 2
percent to 3 percent range on average.  “The argument for tightening further was that underlying
inflation had started to pick up and the central projection in
the staff forecasts envisaged it rising above the target range
during the forecast period,” policy makers said. “Members
believed there were grounds for concern about the medium-term
outlook for inflation.”  In deciding to extend the pause, members noted that credit
growth was “very subdued” by historical standards, asset
prices had softened and the  exchange rate  was high, the minutes
showed.  ‘Reasonable’ Restraint  “While various other factors were affecting these
variables, taken together they suggested that financial
conditions were already exerting a reasonable degree of
restraint,” according to the minutes.  Australian households are saving more as assets including
stocks and houses decline in value. A 17 percent rise in the
Australian dollar in the past year is hurting the manufacturing
and tourism industries.  Balancing that, Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s government
estimates that mining investment will reach A$76 billion ($80
billion) this fiscal year as resource companies aim to meet
demand from China and  India .  “With the forecasts suggesting that the terms of trade
were likely to be subtracting from income growth over coming
years, a significant pick-up in productivity growth would be
required to sustain real income growth around the rates seen in
recent decades,” policy makers said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  