-- 
Treasuries Rally as Merkel, Sarkozy Reject Euro Bond Issuance for Region

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 
2011-08-16T21:13:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/treasuries-rise-snap-yesterday-s-drop-before-u-s-housing-starts-report.html
Treasuries gained as French and
German leaders dismissed calls for the issuance of euro bonds
that would allow borrowing on behalf of all 17 euro states,
encouraging demand for a refuge in  U.S. debt .  The 30-year bond rose almost two points as  France ’s
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and Germany’s  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
avoided a U.S.-style fiscal union in favor of closer euro-area
economic integration with tougher deficit rules and a regional
financial transactions tax.  Fitch Ratings  affirmed the U.S. AAA
credit rating and said the outlook is stable.  “The market was hoping for more,” said Jason Rogan,
director of U.S. government trading at Guggenheim Partners LLC,
a New York-based brokerage for institutional investors. “It’s
not that the euro bond is the cure-all for their issues, but the
market is telling you it was hoping there would have been more
of an urgency to attack the crisis.”  Yields on benchmark 10-year notes dropped nine basis
points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 2.22 percent at 5:11 p.m.
in  New York , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The
2.125 percent note maturing in August 2021 gained 3/4, or $7.50
per $1,000 face amount, to 99 5/32.  The 10-year note yields touched 2.20 percent, the lowest
level since Aug. 11. The gain in 30-year bonds pushed yields
down as much as 13 basis points to 3.64 percent. Yields on two-
year notes were little changed at 0.18 percent.  Drop in Stocks  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index decreased 1 percent after
its biggest three-day rally since 2009. Crude oil for September
delivery slid 0.8 percent to $86.16 a barrel.  Bonds were supported after the  Federal Reserve  acquired
$2.909 billion of U.S. securities maturing from September 2015
to January 2017 under its policy of reinvesting proceeds of
maturing assets.  Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart  said yesterday in
Florence,  Alabama , that the central bank may purchase more
Treasuries or alter its balance sheet if the  U.S. economy  were
to slow further. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  may announce
policy intentions at a conference in Jackson Hole,  Wyoming , on
Aug. 26.  “We are still expecting a rather sluggish economy and
advise buying Treasuries on any backup in yield,” said Ira Jersey, an interest-rate strategist in New York at Credit Suisse
Group AG, one of 20 primary dealers that trade directly with the
Fed. “Treasuries should rally another 30 basis points by the
end of September as we should see 2 percent yields on the 10-
year note.”  Fed’s Target Rate  The central bank took the unprecedented step on Aug. 9 of
saying it will keep its target rate for overnight lending
between banks at almost zero at least through the middle of 2013
to support the economy.  Ten-year yields slid to a record 2.0346 percent that day,
while yields on two-year notes dropped to 0.1568 percent, the
least ever. Yields on 10-year notes have traded between today’s
low of 2.20 percent and a high of 2.33 percent Aug. 12.  “The market is finding itself in a tight range before
 Jackson Hole ,” said  Sean Murphy , a trader in New York at
Societe General, a primary dealer.  The spread between yields on two-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectation
for consumer prices over the life of the debt known as the
break-even rate, shrank yesterday to 91 basis points, the
narrowest in eight months. It was 95 basis points today.  Consumer Prices  The U.S. consumer price index climbed 0.2 percent in July
after a 0.2 percent decrease in the prior month, according to
the median forecast of 84 economists in a Bloomberg News survey
before a report from the Labor Department on Aug. 18.  Fitch Ratings affirmed its AAA credit rating for the U.S.
and said the outlook is stable, citing the nation’s central role
in the global financial system and the flexible, diverse
economy.  The company had put the rating under review after lawmakers
reached a compromise Aug. 2 on a debt-limit agreement that
prevented a U.S. default.  The U.S. may be placed on negative outlook should its debt
levels rise more than projected, indicating more than a 50
percent probability that the nation will be downgraded in the
next two years, Fitch said today in a statement.  S&P on Aug. 5 cut its U.S. credit rating to AA+ from AAA,
saying lawmakers failed to cut spending enough to reduce record
deficits. Moody’s Investors Service affirmed its top U.S.
ranking last week.  ‘Verifiable Commitment’  Merkel and Sarkozy set out joint proposals to strengthen
the euro including plans for all euro-area states to demonstrate
a “verifiable commitment” to anchoring debt limits in national
law and a “euro council” to be headed by European Union
President Herman van Rompuy. They rejected expanding the 440
billion-euro ($633 billion) rescue fund.  The European debt crisis that began in  Greece  in late 2009
has triggered 365 billion euros in emergency bailout loans,
exposed cracks in the euro’s architecture and rattled markets
around the world.  Treasuries rose earlier today after a report showed
European economic growth slowed in the second quarter as
 Germany ’s recovery almost ground to a halt.  “There are still concerns in  Europe , slow global growth
and no inflation on the horizon, which is keeping longer-end
Treasuries well-bid,” said Larry Milstein, managing director in
New York of government and agency debt trading at R.W.
Pressprich & Co., a fixed-income broker and dealer for
institutional investors. “We are in a buy-the-dip market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  