-- 
Rupert Murdoch ‘Confused,’ Misled U.K. Parliament, Firm Says

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n   a n d   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 
2011-08-16T16:36:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/rupert-murdoch-was-confused-misled-u-k-parliament-harbottle-firm-says.html
Rupert Murdoch  was “confused or
misinformed” when he gave testimony to British lawmakers
investigating phone hacking by News Corp.’s News of the World
tabloid, the company’s former U.K.  law firm  said.  The alleged confusion resulted in News Corp.’s chairman
giving “inaccurate and misleading” statements about why the
company’s U.K. unit hired Harbottle & Lewis LLP in 2007 when it
was faced with phone-hacking claims, the firm said in a letter
to parliament made public today. Murdoch had said he relied on a
clean bill of health from the law firm.  Murdoch, who testified with his son James last month, may
have confused Harbottle’s “narrow” focus on an employment
dispute with that of BCL Burton Copeland, another firm that
performed a nine-month review of potential privacy breaches at
the News International unit, the firm said.  Harbottle, based in London, “was not retained to provide
News International with a ‘good conduct’ certificate which it
could show Parliament, or anyone else, years after the event and
for wholly different purposes,” the firm said in the letter.
“Such use of its advice was expressly prohibited under its
terms of engagement.”  A call to BCL Burton Copeland about its probe wasn’t
immediately returned.  News Corp. (NWSA)  has declined to comment on the
new letters published today.  Rebekah Brooks  Parliament’s  Culture, Media and Sport Committee , which
heard testimony last month from the Murdochs and former News of
the World editor Rebekah Brooks, sought new statements after
conflicting comments were filed with lawmakers by other former
executives. The scandal has led to News Corp.’s shuttering of
the 168-year-old newspaper and forced it to abandon a 7.8
billion-pound ($12.8 billion) bid for the rest of British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc.  Harbottle said its review was limited to a study of e-mails
sought as evidence in a wrongful-termination claim filed by the
tabloid’s former royal reporter,  Clive Goodman , who was fired
after being jailed with private investigator  Glenn Mulcaire  in
2007 for hacking into celebrities’ phones.  The firm, after studying an “isolated” group of e-mails
between Goodman and five executives, determined the others
didn’t know about Goodman’s hacking activities, as he claimed.
Harbottle sent a letter to News International with its findings
in May 2007 and put the file into archived storage.  “Its exercise was specifically and only to assist News
International in an internal appeal by Mr. Goodman against his
dismissal,” the law firm said. “It was a short and limited
exercise lasting two weeks.”  Chapman’s Role  Jonathan Chapman, a former director of legal affairs at
News International for eight years until he quit in June, made
similar comments about the Harbottle review in a separate letter
filed with parliament.  Murdoch’s description of Harbottle’s 2007 review was “very
misleading” because the probe was never intended to be a
“general internal inquiry or investigation into the issue of
voice-mail interception at the News of the World,” Chapman said.  The Murdochs last month blamed Harbottle for delaying
resolution of the scandal, saying the firm had convinced the
company the illegal activity was limited. The Metropolitan
Police opened an investigation of hacking in January after new
evidence emerged in civil lawsuits against News International.  A full internal probe of widespread criminal wrongdoing
would have required unlimited access to all company e-mails and
other documents, direct access to key witnesses and the hiring
of forensic accountants and computer analysts -- none of which
Harbottle had in 2007, the law firm said.  ‘Wider Criminal Activity’  Harbottle “was not retained to look for evidence of wider
criminal activity and did not do so,” the law firm said.  The firm’s managing partner, Glen Atchison, said last month
the firm asked News International to release it from
“professional duties of confidentiality” so that it could
respond to “inaccurate statements” in Murdoch’s testimony. The
request was granted after initially being denied.  Chapman and Daniel Cloke, the former head of human
resources at News International, reviewed the e-mails at the
request of  Les Hinton , then chief executive of the U.K. unit,
before they were passed to Harbottle. They found “no reasonable
evidence of knowledge by others of voice-mail interception in
the e-mails reviewed,” according to Chapman’s letter.  “I do not understand why the Burton Copeland investigative
exercise is no longer referred to by News International,”
Chapman said. “Nor do I understand why the 2007 e-mail review
has now apparently become so hugely significant.”  Ken Macdonald, the former U.K. director of public
prosecutions, told a separate group of lawmakers last month
Harbottle had evidence that indicated “serious criminal
offenses” by News Corp. workers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsay Fortado in  London  at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  