-- 
Rusal Gets Improved Terms on $4.6 Billion Sberbank Loan

-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 
2011-08-16T08:45:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/rusal-gets-reduced-rate-extension-on-4-6-billion-sberbank-loan.html
United Co. Rusal, the world’s
largest aluminum producer, obtained improved terms on a $4.6
billion loan from state-controlled OAO Sberbank as part of a
debt refinancing.  Sberbank agreed to reduce the annual  interest rate  on the
loan to 4.5 percent above the London interbank offered rate from
5 percent, the Moscow-based company said today. The loan, which
had been due to expire in 2013, will now mature in five years.  Today’s agreement leaves Hong Kong-listed Rusal with only
$2 billion debt left to refinance with Russian banks. Rusal
is seeking to remove curbs on dividend and investment spending
imposed by lenders in 2009 after the largest corporate debt
restructuring in Russian history.  The amended terms of the loan will be approved by
Sberbank’s board of directors “in due course,” Rusal said in
a statement. “The agreements once again demonstrate our plans
to develop long-term relations with Rusal,” Sberbank said.  As a result, a $2.25 billion guarantee from
Vnesheconombank,  Russia ’s state development lender known as 
VEB, will be canceled.  Sberbank offered Rusal the loan last year to refinance $4.5
billion owed to VEB. Rusal had taken the loan from VEB in
November 2008 to pay back foreign lenders that helped it finance
a purchase of 25 percent in OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel, Russia’s
largest mining company. That 25 percent holding will remain as
collateral with Sberbank, Rusal’s press office said today.  Financial Crisis  Rusal, controlled by billionaire Oleg Deripaska, signed
accords with banks and shareholder  Mikhail Prokhorov  in 2009 to
restructure $17 billion debt as profit slumped during the world
financial crisis.  Rusal has also been in talks to renegotiate loan terms with
VTB and OAO Gazprombank, Oleg Mukhamedshin, the company’s head
of capital markets, said in June. An agreement with those banks
may be reached next month, Rusal said at the time. Its debt
totaled $11.3 billion by the end of the first quarter.  Natalya Staroselskaya, a spokeswoman for VTB, Russia’s
second-biggest lender, declined to comment. Nobody from
Gazprombank could be reached for comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  