-- 
Russia Security Chief in Iran, Holds Talks on Nuclear Plan

-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 
2011-08-16T07:13:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/russia-security-chief-holds-iran-nuclear-talks-press-tv-says.html
Russian Security Council chief
Nikolai Patrushev discussed a proposal to resolve the impasse
over  Iran’s nuclear program  with his Iranian counterpart at a
meeting in Tehran,  Press TV  reported today.  Patrushev, who’s in the Iranian capital for a two-day
visit, met late yesterday with Iranian Supreme National Security
Council Secretary  Saeed Jalili , the state-run news channel said
on its website today.  The two officials talked about a “step-by-step” approach
to Iran’s nuclear program that had been proposed by Russian
Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov on July 13, Press TV said.  Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman  Ramin Mehmanparast  did
not provide details of the talks, saying that Patrushev’s visit
was aimed at “boosting long-term relations” and that Iran had
yet to “officially” receive that nuclear proposal.  “As soon as we receive the plan, we will study it and
express our views,” Mehmanparast told reporters in Tehran in
comments broadcast live on state television today.  Based on the proposal, Iran would address questions raised
by the  International Atomic Energy Agency  about its nuclear
activities and be rewarded by gradual removal of sanctions, the
Press TV report said.  Iran is under  United Nations , U.S. and European Union
sanctions over its nuclear program, which the U.S. and its
European allies accuse of being a cover for the development of
atomic weapons. Russia, a veto-wielding member of the UN
Security Council, has build Iran’s first nuclear power plant
located in the city of Bushehr, which Iranian officials say is
scheduled to start generating electricity next month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  