-- 
Rutgers Athletics Grow at Expense of Academics Unlike at Texas

-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r   a n d   O l i v e r   S t a l e y
-- 
2011-08-16T18:51:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/rutgers-boosting-athletics-at-expense-of-academics-fails-to-emulate-texas.html
Rutgers University  forgave $100,000
of the football coach’s interest-free home loan last year. The
women’s basketball coach got monthly golf and car allowances.
Both collected bonuses without winning a championship.  Meanwhile, the history department took away professors’
desk phones to save money and shrank its doctoral program by 25
percent. After funding cuts by the deficit-strapped Legislature,
New Jersey’s state university froze professors’ salaries, cut
the use of photocopies for exams and jacked up student tuition,
housing and other fees.  Rutgers also increased funding for sports. The 245-year-old
school spent more money on athletics than any other public
institution in the six biggest football conferences during the
2009-2010 fiscal year, based on data compiled by Bloomberg. More
than 40 percent of sports revenue came from student fees and the
university’s general fund.  “I am dumbfounded,” said  New Jersey  Assemblyman David Wolfe, a Republican who is a professor of psychology at Ocean
County College in Toms River. “Rutgers officials appear before
the Legislature every year and claim they are underfunded and
need more money. Now we find out we have the No. 1-subsidized
athletics program in the country.”  In an environment of fiscal strain confronting state
governments, the New Brunswick, New Jersey, school is emblematic
of rising tension over funding of athletics at the expense of
academics. Of 53 institutions surveyed by Bloomberg, 46 diverted
money to sports in their fiscal years ended in 2010, based on
financial reports to the National Collegiate Athletic
Association obtained from state schools under open-records laws.  University Support Rises  The NCAA said in a financial analysis published in July
that student fees and support from university budgets in fiscal
2010 provided the biggest share of sports revenue since 2004,
based on the median of the 120 largest programs in the
organization, which the NCAA calls its Football Bowl
Subdivision. Schools’ subsidies and student fees accounted for
21 percent of the $6.3 billion in athletic revenue, the NCAA
said.  At Rutgers, of the $26.9 million given to subsidize
athletics in fiscal 2010, $18.4 million came from university
coffers, top among state schools in the Atlantic Coast, Big
East, Big Ten, Big 12, Pac-12 and Southeastern Conferences.  The remaining $8.4 million came from student fees, where
Rutgers ranks fifth.  Some universities spread the pain of fiscal belt-tightening
to sports. As California’s budget crisis forced cuts for higher
education, the  University of California , Berkeley, planned to
reduce athletic funding to $5 million annually within four
years. That will be down from $12 million in fiscal 2010, when
it was eighth-highest in the Bloomberg survey.  Campus Life  At the same time, officials of Rutgers and other schools
say sports do merit financial support. Athletics provide an
important element in campus life, create opportunities for
thousands of student-athletes and keep alumni donors involved,
they say. In the case of UC-Berkeley, supporters raised $21
million to prevent disbanding of the men’s baseball, rugby and
gymnastics and the women’s gymnastics and lacrosse teams.  Not all athletic programs rely on university funds. Seven
schools -- all with powerful programs in football, the most
profitable sport -- didn’t give any money to athletics in fiscal
2010. The NCAA doesn’t require universities to report data for
the fiscal year ended in 2011 until January.  Among those seven is the University of  Texas  at Austin,
which generated the most revenue from college sports in the U.S.
during fiscal 2010, the Bloomberg data show.  Texas Football Revenue  About two-thirds of the university’s $143.6 million in
revenue came from football, a program that has produced
Associated Press writers’ poll national champions three times.
The sport is so popular that the school can demand a donation on
top of the ticket price for 46,634 of its seats, while Rutgers
can do that for 5,950.  Texas athletics has been pouring funds into academics for
years and endowed two faculty chairs at $1 million each,
according to spokesman Nick Voinis. Once the 24-hour Longhorn
cable TV network starts this month, athletics and academics will
split $10 million a year in expected new revenue, he said.  When Rutgers hired  Tim Pernetti  as athletic director in
February 2009, the school made it one of his priorities to
shrink the university’s support for sports. His contract
provides for a $10,000 bonus in any year when the subsidy
doesn’t increase and the amount also falls as a percentage of
the athletic budget. Pernetti, a 40-year-old native of Wyckoff,
New Jersey, has never earned the bonus, said University
spokesman E.J. Miranda.  Revenue, Subsidies Rise  In the three fiscal years through June 30, 2010, athletic
revenue excluding support from the university climbed $7.6
million, or 25 percent, according to school records. The
department also took fatter subsidies, including a 21 percent
rise in university aid and 21 percent more from fees levied on
the 28,904 undergraduates, the data show.  All told, such subsidies for sports in fiscal 2010 came to
$26.9 million, or 42 percent of the $64.2 million Rutgers
athletic budget. The percentage was almost double the median of
26 percent among the 120 biggest programs in the NCAA, according
to the organization’s financial analysis. The amount was almost
twice the second-highest total in the Bloomberg survey, $14.6
million by the University of  Connecticut . Rutgers and UConn each
support 24 teams, the most among Big East Conference football
schools. UT-Austin has 20.  State Aid Decline  State funding for Rutgers in the three fiscal years ending
in June 2012 fell $29 million, or 10 percent, to $262 million,
Miranda said. Tuition and mandatory fees jumped 7.3 percent over
the same period to $12,755 for state students. The 2,800-member
faculty hasn’t received a raise since January 2010, according to
 Patrick Nowlan , executive director of the professors’ union.  Chris Christie , New Jersey’s Republican governor who gained
national prominence after cutting state aid to cities, towns and
school districts by $1.3 billion last year, declined multiple
requests to discuss the Rutgers sports funding. So did Rutgers
President Richard McCormick, who is retiring from the top job in
June 2012 and rejoining the history faculty.  New Jersey Senate President  Stephen Sweeney , a Democrat,
said in an e-mailed statement that “students and quality of
education have to come first.”  “These latest revelations yet again highlight the need for
strong, effective leadership at Rutgers,” Sweeney said. “As
Governor Christie conducts his search for a new president there,
I hope he will take into account that Rutgers’ new leader will
have to deal with these issues head on in a smart, cost-
effective manner that takes students and their families into
consideration.”  Rutgers was chartered in 1766 as Queen’s College and
changed its name in 1825 to honor Revolutionary War veteran
Henry Rutgers. In 1869, it played the first college football
game against the school now known as  Princeton University .
Graduates include the late economist Milton Friedman, the late
actor Paul Robeson and  Elizabeth Warren , a Harvard University
law professor and assistant to President  Barack Obama , who
received her law degree at Rutgers.  ‘Pony for Christmas’  Professors and students resent the general funding cuts,
some of them said in interviews. The reductions mean higher out-
of-pocket expenses and fewer resources for teaching and doing
research. Moreover, the subsidies to sports aren’t likely to pay
off for Rutgers, says Catherine Lugg, a professor in the
graduate school of education.  “We’re told that at some day in the future we will see the
pots of gold made by football,” Lugg said in an interview.
“When someone says that, I say ‘Yeah, and I’d like a pony for
Christmas.’ It’s just not going to happen.”  Lugg’s ability to conduct research on education policy has
been hampered by budget cuts at the library, she said. She now
has to pay for subscriptions to journals that used to be
available there, and for a while she was using the library at
Pennsylvania State University in  State College , where she is an
alumna, she said.  Cut Back Photocopies  Lee Jussim , chairman of the psychology department, told
staff members in a December e-mail that they had to shrink the
$40,000 budget for photocopies and computer-scanned forms for
giving tests. Failure would mean rationing or billing
instructors personally, he said. He recommended “giving fewer
tests, dramatically shortening your tests, giving students
online and take-home tests,” according to a copy of the e-mail.  “The cuts are sufficiently severe,” Jussim said in an e-
mail to Bloomberg, “that our ability to accomplish our core
missions are, for the first time in my career, under serious
threat.”  Academic funding has never been worse, says Rudy Bell, a
history professor at Rutgers since 1968.  “The short-term fixes are going to have long-term negative
effects on the quality of education at this university,” said
Bell, a Scarlet Knights football season ticket-holder, in a
telephone interview.  Wireless Internet service in his classroom is spotty,
making it hard for students when he uses websites in his
lectures, Bell says. He relies on an Internet voice service for
talking with students because he no longer has a telephone on
his desk, he says.  Unplugging the Phones  Two years ago, the department took away the phones from the
offices of 40 professors to save $21,000 annually, according to
James Masschaele, the history chairman.  “It was the least-bad option,” Masschaele says. The
department also cut the number of Ph.D. candidates to between 12
and 14, down from 16 to 18, he says, and lost faculty members to
rival institutions because of the budget constraints.  There isn’t enough classroom space for the 4,000 students
taking history courses, Masschaele says. The department
schedules lectures from 8:10 a.m to 10:30 p.m. and turns away
those who can’t get a seat at enrollment, he says.  Rutgers spent $11.2 million on coaches’ salaries and
benefits in fiscal 2010, third among Big East state schools
behind Connecticut’s $12.5 million and the University of
Louisville’s $12.1 million, the Bloomberg data show.
Compensation packages are determined by the market and reflect
the cost of top talent, says Pernetti, who holds a bachelor’s
degree in journalism and mass media and a master’s in
communication.  Coaches’ Pay  At the top of the Rutgers scale, football coach Greg Schiano made $2.03 million including bonuses for the fiscal year
ended in June, according to the school. The 45-year-old Schiano
won 59 games and lost 63 in 10 seasons, including a 4-1 record
in postseason bowl games.  While Schiano’s compensation isn’t out of line among
football coaches, it compares with an average of $142,000 for
full professors, $96,000 for associate professors and $49,000
for nontenure-track instructors, according to the professors
union.  Donald Siegel, 48, teaches introductory chemistry at
Rutgers for about $70,000 a year, he says. Under the professors
union’s 2007 contract, he was eligible for raises of as much as
17 percent over four years, but because of the salary freeze he
got 3.75 percent, he says. He and his wife just bought their
first house after 20 years of renting, he says.  Schiano’s Home Loan  “Athletics programs are always a net loss, and every
economic study that’s been done says that it brings in
donations, but it costs more than the donations it brings in,”
Siegel said in an interview. “It’s much bigger than it should
be, and Schiano’s salary is totally ridiculous. But the real
problem is the administration is top-heavy.” He said he resents
football spending less than other examples of waste.  Under the terms of Schiano’s contract, Rutgers sold the
football coach 0.86 acre (0.34 hectare) in nearby Piscataway and
spent $142,185 preparing the lot. The university then loaned him
$800,000 interest-free for construction of his house. Each year
he stays on, Rutgers forgives $100,000 of the balance, which was
down to $400,000 as of this year, Miranda said.  Pernetti, who played tight end at Rutgers from 1990-1993,
declined to make Schiano available for an interview. The coach
is well worth his compensation because he has kept the team
competitive, and football has the potential to bring in revenue
to pay for other sports, as it does elsewhere. Ticket sales,
donations and sponsorships related to the game make it the most
profitable sport, according to NCAA analyses.  Football Operating Loss  Football revenue at Rutgers totaled $24 million in fiscal
2010, according to the data compiled by Bloomberg. The team had
an operating loss of $2.9 million, excluding university
subsidies and student fees.  The deficit was the widest in the 53-school Bloomberg
survey. Connecticut reported the only other football red ink.
The average football team had an operating gain of $17.2
million, the data show.  Vivian Stringer, the women’s basketball coach, got the
second-highest pay among Rutgers coaches in fiscal 2011 at $1.3
million including bonuses, according to the school. She also
gets monthly allowances of $1,000 for a car and as much as $500
for golf. Stringer, 63, has coached the Rutgers women for 16
seasons, one of which ended in the national semifinal and one in
the final.  Even though it won two-thirds of its games over that
period, the team had an operating loss of $2.2 million in fiscal
2010, according to Rutgers records. Rutgers women’s basketball
attracted an average of 4,008 fans to road games and 3,039 at
home. Pernetti also declined to make Stringer available.  ‘Revenue Problem’  The athletic director, who will make $410,000 this year,
came to Rutgers from the CBS College Sports Network, where he
was an executive vice president. The university’s sports subsidy
is significant, especially as budget pressures force academic
belt-tightening, Pernetti says. The athletic programs don’t make
enough money to do without the support, he says.  “We have a revenue problem, not an expense problem,”
Pernetti says. “The president, the board, the administration
and I agree what the goal is. We want to develop a program that
protects the image of the university, that can succeed on and
off the field, and that can generate the revenue necessary to
stabilize and then reduce university support.”  Rutgers sold $10.6 million of football tickets in fiscal
2010, a third as much as UT-Austin’s $33.1 million, based on the
schools’ financial reports. The New Jersey school’s stadium
seats 52,454, compared with 96,119 at Texas, which charges twice
as much for tickets.  More TV Money  Pernetti negotiated a 10-year, $6.5 million contract this
year giving High Point Solutions Inc., based in  Sparta , New
Jersey, the right to rename the football stadium. He also got
almost $4 million from  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi for naming rights to
the club seating section. The deals were in line with similar
arrangements at comparable schools.  His plan to increase revenue depends on the Big East’s
ability to negotiate higher television fees when its football
contract with  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ESPN expires after the 2013
football season. The conference’s basketball accords with ESPN
and  CBS Corp. (CBS)  are up for renewal after the 2012-2013 season.
Pernetti estimates Rutgers’s television revenue and postseason
bowl payouts may triple from fiscal 2010’s $9.2 million, based
on other leagues’ recent deals.  Squeezing Boosters  In addition, Rutgers is working on squeezing more money out
of boosters, Pernetti says. In fiscal 2010, sports donations
totaled $9.2 million, third in the Big East behind Louisville
and West Virginia University, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares with $51.9 million at Oklahoma State
University, $39.4 million at the University of  Florida  and $37.1
million at UT-Austin.  Rutgers also plans to seek bids for an athletic-
departmentwide apparel deal, getting a manufacturer to pay for
having the Scarlet Knights showcase its shoes and uniforms,
according to Jason Baum, associate athletic director. The
football and basketball coaches now have their own deals with
 Nike Inc. (NKE)  and keep the fees, he said.  Paying Her Way  Emily Knox, a fourth-year doctoral student in library and
information science from Columbia,  Maryland , says she is
indirectly supporting a football team she doesn’t care about.
The budget reductions mean her pay as a teaching assistant was
cut $700, to $24,205 for the 2010-2011 school year, and she had
to pay more than $1,500 out of pocket to travel to academic
conferences in San Diego and  Seattle  after the school chipped in
only $200. She can’t save money by giving up her car because
Rutgers cut campus bus service to the neighborhood where she
lives, Knox says.  “I don’t know where that money went,” says Knox, 35.
“Did it go to the stadium? Did it go to the coach? They get
paid, no matter what.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net ;
Oliver Staley in New York at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Kaufman  at   jkaufman17@bloomberg.net . 