-- 
S&P Downgraded in Treasury Trade After Upgrading Communist China

-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-08-16T14:27:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/s-p-downgraded-in-treasury-trading-after-upgrading-communist-rule-in-china.html
Eleven days after lowering the
credit rating on the U.S. for the first time,  Standard & Poor’s 
is suffering a downgrade among global investors as American
bonds are proving world beaters -- undermining S&P’s
mathematical assumptions -- and prompting disbelief among
political scientists months after the company upgraded China
because of the stability fostered by Communist Party rule.  Since S&P, the New York-based subsidiary of McGraw-Hill
Cos., dropped the U.S. to AA+ from AAA on Aug. 5, the yield on
the 10-year Treasury note, a benchmark for everything from home
mortgages to car loans, has declined to as low as 2.03 percent
from a high this year of 3.77 percent, with American debt on
pace in August for the biggest monthly gain since December 2008.
Interest rates on American bonds are lower today than on most of
the countries with AAA ratings by S&P and the Treasury recently
financed its outstanding debt at the lowest cost ever.  If anything, the decision from S&P, the largest ratings
provider, resulted in an upgrade of U.S. securities as the
American  bond market  outperformed world bond indexes during the
period since the downgrade by S&P. Moody’s Investors Service and
Fitch Ratings, the two next biggest rating companies, affirmed
their AAA rankings on the U.S.  “The market has upgraded U.S. Treasuries,” said Andrew Johnson, the head of investment-grade fixed-income in Chicago at
Neuberger Berman Fixed Income LLC, which oversees $85 billion.
“Treasuries are still where people run to hide at least
temporarily and that’s what we’ve seen over the past week.”  $2 Trillion Error  S&P made its decision, saying the U.S. government is
becoming “less stable, less effective and less predictable,”
even after acknowledging to the Treasury Department a $2
trillion error in its calculations that by its own methodology
could have prevented any change from a AAA rating. Since S&P
still insisted on downgrading the U.S. eight months after
raising China’s rating, the company’s credibility has come under
increasing scrutiny.  “It was really kind of bizarre that they’ve become
political analysts,” said  Thomas Mann , a congressional scholar
at the Washington-based  Brookings Institution . “I certainly
never look to any of the three rating agencies as a source of
expertise, knowledge or wisdom on the political system.”  When  Warren Buffett  was asked about S&P’s decision, the
billionaire chairman of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. said the U.S.
should have been upgraded to “quadruple-A.”  The cut left the U.S., whose currency accounts for about 60
percent of the world’s reserves, rated below at least 15 other
nations and on the same level as Belgium, which hasn’t had a
government since June 2010.  Debt-to-GDP  S&P said in July that $4 trillion in budget cuts could be
enough for the U.S. to maintain its top grade. Lawmakers agreed
on Aug. 2 to raise the nation’s $14.3 trillion debt ceiling and
put in place a plan for $2.4 trillion in spending reductions
over the next 10 years. When S&P conferred with the Treasury
Department before announcing the downgrade, government officials
said the firm had overestimated the future national debt by $2
trillion.  S&P changed the numbers and said the error didn’t affect
its conclusions that the U.S.’s debt-to-gross domestic product
ratio will probably continue to rise in the next decade. S&P
“chose to proceed with their flawed judgment by simply changing
their principal rationale for their  credit rating  decision from
an economic one to a political one,” John Bellows, acting
assistant secretary at the Treasury, wrote on the department’s
website.  The Securities and Exchange Commission is scrutinizing the
method S&P used to cut the U.S.’s credit rating and whether the
firm properly protected the confidential decision, according to
a person with direct knowledge of the matter.  Treasury Yields Fall  SEC inspectors are examining S&P’s policies for conducting
such analyses and whether those procedures were followed when
the firm downgraded the U.S., said the person, who declined to
be identified because the inquiry isn’t public.  Ed Sweeney , an S&P spokesman, said the firm doesn’t discuss
specific interactions it has with regulators.  While S&P’s downgrade contributed to an equity rout that
erased about $6.1 trillion from global stocks between July 26
and Aug. 12, the bond market responded by driving up prices and
sending yields to record lows. Yields on 10-year  U.S.
Treasuries , which drop when demand rises, closed at 2.11 percent
on Aug. 10, a percentage point below the 3.1 percent yield on
AAA rated French debt and two points below Belgian bonds’ 4.1
percent yield.  ‘Risk-Free’  Buyers lined up for  U.S. debt  at last week’s auctions. The
Treasury paid a record-low average yield of 2.13 percent on $72
billion of 10- and 30-year notes and bonds, saving taxpayers
$647 million in interest payments during the life of the debt,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The market is saying S&P’s rating decision is wrong,”
Edward Marrinan, the head of macro credit strategy at RBS
Securities in Stamford, Connecticut, said in a telephone
interview on Aug. 10. “The Treasury bond is still seen as the
ultimate risk-free security.”  S&P said in the Aug. 5 report that the U.S.’s ratio of debt
to GDP would reach 79 percent in 2015 and 85 percent by 2021. In
2009, when the rater affirmed the U.S.’s AAA rating, analysts
wrote that the ratio would approach 90 percent by 2013.  “They have made no connection between any minimum required
metrics and various ratings tiers,” Glenn Reynolds, chief
executive officer of bond research firm CreditSights Inc., said
in an e-mail. “S&P took a soft variable and used it to
downgrade the U.S. on a very narrow set of forward political
assumptions.”  ‘So AA+’  The decision to cut the rating was reached by a team of
sovereign debt analysts, including Toronto-based Nikola Swann,
London-based David Beers and  John Chambers , who works in  New
York . They score countries on five criteria, including political
risks and debt burden. Sweeney, the S&P spokesman, declined to
say how the U.S. did in those categories or how many analysts
were on the committee.  Swann, the lead author of S&P’s report, said the U.S. lost
the top grade because political leaders failed to demonstrate
that they were serious about cutting the national debt.  “We really just came to the view that if it’s anything
less than $4 trillion it’s hard to argue they’re seriously doing
anything about it,” Swann said at conference with reporters on
Aug. 9. “So we came to the view, well they’re not seriously
doing anything about it, so AA+.”  Literature Degrees  Swann worked as an economist in Canada’s Department of
Finance prior to joining the rating company in 2002. Beers,
managing director of sovereign ratings, worked at Salomon
Brothers before joining S&P in 1990, and has a master’s degree
in economics from the London School of Economics. Chambers
studied literature at Grinnell College in Iowa and  Columbia
University  in New York.  “You have to work on  Capitol Hill  to know what the sausage
factory looks like,” Robert Auerbach, who worked in Congress
for 11 years and is now a professor of public affairs at the
University of Texas in Austin, said in a telephone interview on
Aug. 11. “The people at S&P are entirely wrong. This is how a
democracy works.”  Fitch affirmed its AAA rating for the U.S. today and said
the outlook is stable. New York-based Moody’s reiterated its top
Aaa rating for the U.S. in an Aug. 8 report, calling the debt
accord a “positive step.”  Steven Hess , Moody’s senior credit
officer, said the second-biggest ratings provider examines
“actual policies as opposed to the political debate.”  Reserve Currency  “We now see at least both parties having the same goal of
deficit and debt reduction over the long term, even though more
needs to be done,” Hess said in a telephone interview that day.
“More important to us than how contentious the process is, does
it produce results?”  Moody’s, which has rated the U.S. Aaa since 1917, said in
the report that the dollar’s role as the world’s main reserve
currency means “the U.S. government can support higher debt
levels than other governments.” The greenback represents 60.7
percent of the world’s currency reserves, compared with 26.6
percent for the euro, which has the next biggest portion,
according to the  International Monetary Fund  in Washington.  The dollar climbed against 14 of its 16 major peers last
week as investors sought a refuge for their assets with markets
around the world fluctuating. Treasuries have returned 2.27
percent this month, compared with 1.35 percent for government
debt worldwide excluding U.S. bonds, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data.  Treasury Holdings  Asian investors are likely to retain their Treasury
holdings for now, with options limited by the region’s foreign-
exchange rate policies. Japan, the second-largest international
investor in American government debt behind  China , sees no
problem with trust in the securities, a Japanese government
official said on condition of anonymity. Russia said the one-
step cut “can be ignored.”  China increased its holdings of  U.S. government debt  by 0.5
percent to $1.17 trillion in June, the third straight monthly
increase, while other foreign investors were sellers of
Treasuries for the first time since 2009, according to data
released yesterday by the Treasury Department.  The gap between political parties has grown, said former
Congressman Bill Frenzel, who served as the ranking Republican
on the House Budget Committee. In the Senate, the Republican
minority has used the filibuster to block debate more
frequently, with the number of cloture votes -- attempts to
break a filibuster -- doubling to 112 from 2007 to 2008 from 54
in 2005 to 2006, when the Democrats were in the minority,
according to data on the body’s website.  ‘So Highly Polarized’  “Members of Congress and the voting blocs that support
them seem to be so highly polarized that there is no opportunity
to achieve a compromise,” Frenzel said in a telephone
interview. “S&P is smart enough to understand that you can’t
balance the budget on discretionary spending.”  Marketable U.S. government debt outstanding has risen to
$9.4 trillion from $4.34 trillion in mid-2007 as the government
borrowed to bail out the nation’s banking system and lift the
economy out of recession. The U.S. went from budget surpluses
averaging $139.7 billion from 1998 through 2001 to a deficit of
$1.29 trillion last year, Bloomberg data show. That hasn’t
raised the country’s borrowing costs. Average debt yields of 1.5
percent in July compare with 6.54 percent in 2000.  ‘Fuel a Bubble’  S&P, Moody’s and Fitch engaged in a “race to the bottom”
to assign top grades to mortgage-backed securities at the
request of the banks that paid them, according to a report
released by a Senate panel in April. About 90 percent of AAA
rated bonds backed by subprime mortgages from 2006 and 2007 were
later downgraded to junk status, the Senate Permanent
Subcommittee on Investigations said in the report.  The ratings companies “helped fuel a bubble which, when
popped, caused government deficits to explode,” said Robert Reischauer, who led the  Congressional Budget Office  from 1989 to
1995. “Then the same group comes back to you and says, ‘We’re
worried about your ability to deal with these deficits.’”  China has been upgraded five times by S&P since 1999,
Bloomberg data show. “We believe the Chinese authorities would
respond to future threats to financial stability with timely
measures, based on our observations over the past two years,”
S&P said Dec. 16 in a statement.  The Communist Party of China has a “monopoly” on power,
meaning the country isn’t an electoral democracy, according to
Freedom House. The nine-member Politburo Standing Committee sets
policy, the Washington-based human-rights advocacy group  says  on
its website.  ‘Modest Indebtedness’  S&P also cited China’s “modest indebtedness” and
“exceptional” growth potential as reasons for the one-step
upgrade to AA-. The country was cut one level in July 1999 to
BBB from BBB+, China’s only downgrade since it was assigned a
ranking in 1992, as S&P warned that  government spending  was
hiding the extent of the nation’s economic slowdown.  In the U.S., S&P’s forecasts changed as the debt ceiling
approached. On April 18, S&P said that there was a one-in-three
chance of a downgrade within two years. Three months later, the
company said the likelihood had risen to 50 percent in the next
90 days. The Senate voted Aug. 1 to raise the nation’s debt
ceiling for the 79th time since 1960.  ‘Downright Opaque’  While lawmakers pushed the debt-limit debate to the
deadline set by Treasury, protracted disputes led to compromises
in the past. A bipartisan bill to balance the U.S. budget won
congressional approval in 1997 after government shutdowns and a
2 1/2 year tug-of-war between a Republican Congress and
Democratic President  Bill Clinton . The bill achieved most of its
savings by slowing the growth of Medicare and Medicaid.  Basing credit ratings on politics makes them “wholly
arbitrary and downright opaque,” CreditSights’ Reynolds wrote
in an Aug. 7 report. By relying on political analysis to
downgrade the U.S., S&P is discounting the views of bond
investors, who’ve shown they’re willing to lend to the U.S. at
rates that imply almost no risk, he said.  “There are two things you can count on -- the market is
smarter than S&P and the U.S. will not default,” Reynolds said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  