-- 
Saab Auto Must Pay Debt Today or Risk Collection

-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 
2011-08-16T10:53:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/saab-auto-must-pay-debt-today-or-risk-collection.html
Sweden’s Debt Enforcement Agency
will start a collection process against Saab Automobile tomorrow
unless the cash-starved carmaker pays two suppliers about
$620,000 today, an official at the regulator said.  “The collection process that may start tomorrow would
include investigating Saab’s bank accounts and potentially also
other assets,” which could mean freezing them pending payment,
Hans Ryberg, a division chief at the  state agency , said today by
telephone.  The companies that Saab must pay today to prevent the start
of the procedure are Kongsberg Automotive AB, a Norwegian
manufacturer of car-seat parts, and Infotiv AB, a Gothenburg,
Sweden-based consulting firm, Ryberg said. The “big majority”
of the money is owed to Kongsberg, he said.  Saab was forced to halt car production in late March
because of a cash shortage, and the assembly line has been quiet
since early June. The company is trying to raise more funds and
has said it aims to restart manufacturing in a few weeks.
Swedish Automobile NV, Saab’s Dutch owner, raised money
yesterday by selling 4 million new shares to GEM Global Yield
Fund Ltd.  “We’re of course totally aware of this situation with the
collection agency, but I can’t comment on what we’re going to
do,”  Eric Geers , a spokesman at Trollhaettan, Sweden-based Saab
Auto, said by telephone today.  Joachim Magnusson, head of Kongsberg’s auto division, and
Hans-Jorgen Morland, a spokesman at the Norwegian company,
didn’t immediately reply to voicemail messages seeking comment.
Infotiv Chief Executive Officer Alf Berntsson didn’t immediately
reply to a message left with a secretary.  Outstanding Debt  More than 100 debt claims against Saab have been filed with
the collection agency, with some companies filing more than one
claim, and eight proceeding to ask for the regulator’s
involvement, Christina Lindberg, another agency official, said
last month. Ryberg said he doesn’t know the total amount that
Saab owes. Another 5.1 million kronor ($792,200) is due to more
suppliers in about a week, he said.  The collection process usually takes from one to three
months, and can be halted in the event Saab pays the debts
involved, Ryberg said. At the end of the procedure, the Swedish
Tax Authority can request that Saab be put into bankruptcy
unless the manufacturer has paid the debts, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  