-- 
Salgado Says Spain Asset Sales May Cut Debt Issuance Needs by $17 Billion

-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 
2011-08-16T12:22:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/salgado-says-spain-asset-sales-may-cut-debt-issuance-needs-by-17-billion.html
Spain ’s asset sales will cut debt
issuance by as much as 12 billion euros ($17 billion) as the
government presses ahead with the program before the election in
November, Finance Minister  Elena Salgado  said.  Spain’s Socialist government will stick to its plan to list
lottery operator Sociedad Estatal Loterias y Apuestas del Estado
in the last week of October and to auction management contracts
for its two biggest airports in Madrid and Barcelona, Salgado
said in an e-mailed response to questions.  “It will allow debt issuance in the final part of 2011 to
be lower than forecast,” she said. “We will have to issue
around 10 billion to 12 billion euros less, which is good
news.”  Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero set
Nov. 20 as the date for general elections last month, four
months earlier than scheduled as the government struggles to
protect the economy from the spread of the sovereign debt
crisis. The opposition  People’s Party  opposes the asset sales
and has pledged to review them if it wins the election, as polls
suggest it will.  “The decision to bring forward the election will not
affect the timetable for the lottery listing,” Salgado said.
“The government intends to award the contracts for both
airports before the general election.”  Debt Sale  The gap between Spanish and German 10-year borrowing costs
surged to a euro-era high of 418 basis points on Aug. 5,
prompting the  European Central Bank  to start buying Spanish and
Italian debt. Spain’s Treasury, which plans to borrow 43.3
billion euros in net terms this year, paid an average yield of
3.335 percent to sell 12-month debt today, while 10-year yields
stood at 4.996 percent.  “The government needs the money now,” Carles Vergara-
Alert, a finance professor at the IESE business school who
focuses on asset pricing, said in a telephone interview from
 Barcelona . “Zapatero can’t afford to create confusion on the
markets and give the European Union the wrong signal, and he
would turn voters away by increasing taxes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  