-- 
San Francisco Gasoline Strengthens on Los Angeles Refiner Buying

-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 
2011-08-16T21:32:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/san-francisco-gasoline-strengthens-on-los-angeles-refiner-buying.html
     Aug. 16 (Bloomberg) --California-blend gasoline in  San
Francisco  strengthened to trade 4 cents above the same fuel in
 Los Angeles  as refiners bought supplies off the market.  The discount for Carbob in San Francisco narrowed 4.25
cents to 4.25 cents below gasoline futures traded on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange  at 4:18 p.m. East Coast time, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. In Los Angeles, the same fuel
strengthened 3.5 cents to a discount of 8.25 cents below
futures.  Prompt delivery in San Francisco gained 2.18 cents to
$2.8113 a gallon, while the fuel sold for $2.7713 a gallon in
Los Angeles. San Francisco Carbob hasn’t traded more than 4
cents above Los Angeles Carbob since May, when three  California 
refineries reported maintenance within nine days of each other.  “This means some refinery has a problem and is buying to
cover,” said David Hackett, president of energy consultant
 Stillwater Associates  in Irvine, California. “That refinery may
have a big enough problem that he is lifting the entire market,
not just the Bay.”  Carbob in San Francisco is generally cheaper than in Los
Angeles because demand is lower in the Bay area, Hackett said.  “An L.A. buyer is in the market,” said Bob van der Valk,
an independent fuel pricing analyst in Terry,  Montana . “Exxon
Mobil is buying gas as well but not enough to justify the number
being done.”  Randy Simpson, vice president of supply and trading at
Idemitsu Apollo Corp. in Sacramento, California, said refiners
have been “buying a lot of barrels in the Bay. There’s some
refinery issues going on.”  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ’s Torrance refinery in California
reported an equipment breakdown last week. The 150,000-barrel-a-
day plant shut two compressors associated with a hydrocracker,
according to two people familiar with the refinery’s operations.  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  is running the 297,000-barrel-a-day El
Segundo refinery in California at reduced rates while working on
a naphtha hydrotreater, a person with direct knowledge of the
matter said Aug. 9.  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline in Portland, Oregon,
strengthened the most since March to a premium of 13 cents
versus gasoline futures. That’s the largest premium for the fuel
in almost 10 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  