-- 
Savient Seeks Broader Gout Drug Sales Following Study Results

-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 
2011-08-16T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/savient-seeks-broader-gout-drug-sales-following-study-results.html
Savient Pharmaceuticals Inc. (SVNT) ’s
treatment for chronic, severe gout helped patients who didn’t
respond to other medications, a study found. Chief Executive
Officer John Johnson plans to boost sales with the results.  Savient’s Krystexxa, approved by the U.S. regulators last
year, lowered uric acid levels below targeted amounts in 42
percent of 84 patients given the drug biweekly, compared with 35
percent who took the medicine monthly, and zero response in the
placebo group, according to the research published today in the
Journal of the  American Medical Association .  “This will allow physicians to take a deep look at the
details of our data,” Johnson said in a telephone interview.
“They’ve never seen all the details together before.”  Savient initially focused on promoting the drug to
rheumatologists and will now broaden its scope to primary-care
physicians, Johnson said.  “This really now is the foundation for our launch of phase
two into the primary-care audience,” he said. “We expect to
see some acceleration in sales in the second quarter of next
year.”  Krystexxa generated $1.4 million in the net sales in the
first six months of the year, Savient reported Aug. 4.  Johnson, who headed up Eli Lilly & Co.’s oncology division
before joining Savient in January, said the company plans to
promote Krystexxa alone in the U.S. and is open to partnerships
in  Europe  and  Asia . Savient, based in East Brunswick,  New
Jersey , tried to sell itself last year but failed to find a
buyer.  As many as 6 million people in the U.S. suffer from gout, a
type of arthritis in which deposits of uric acid build up around
joints, causing pain, swelling and stiffness, according to the
report. About 3 percent of these patients don’t benefit from
other medicines on the market, and these were targeted for the
trials, conducted in 2006 and 2007, the study said.  Gout flares occurred in 80 percent of the patients in the
trial, and seven deaths occurred, including three in the placebo
group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 