-- 
Shell’s North Sea Oil Leak Persists After Second Hole Found

-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 
2011-08-16T17:16:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/shell-s-north-sea-oil-leak-persists-after-second-hole-discovered.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Europe ’s
largest oil company, said a spill into the North Sea is
persisting after crude escaped from a second flow-line hole.  Shell has managed to reduce the rate of the leak to less
than one barrel a day, down from about five barrels a day
 estimated  yesterday, according to Glen Cayley, a technical
director at Shell’s exploration and production unit in Europe.
The company has managed to stop the main leak from the flow line
and is now developing a plan to stop residual oil escaping from
the relief valve next to the original hole.  “A change in wave and wind conditions and general
visibility does mean that the sheen affects a wider area of
approximately 26 square kilometers” (10 square miles), Cayley
said today in an e-mailed statement. “Personnel on the platform
are safe and the platform continues to operate.”  The company found that crude was escaping from its Gannet
Alpha platform in the U.K.  North Sea  after spotting a sheen on
the water on Aug. 10. About 218 metric tons, or 1,300 barrels,
of oil has leaked from a flow line, according to Shell. That
would make it the largest U.K. spill  since 2000 , when about 524
tons were recorded, according to government data up to 2009.  “The initial release path was stopped on Thursday, however
the oil found a second pathway to the sea,” Sally Hepton, a
London-based spokeswoman at Shell, said earlier today in an e-
mailed statement. The company doesn’t expect oil to reach U.K.
land.  Gannet Alpha produced 175,760 tons of oil in 2009 (3,500
barrels a day), according to the Department of Energy and
Climate Change. It’s located about 112 miles (180 kilometers)
east of Aberdeen,  Scotland .  ‘Open and Transparent’  The Scottish government has urged The Hague-based Shell to
be more “open and transparent” about the incident, Scottish
Environment Secretary Richard Lochhead said today in a telephone
interview from Edinburgh.  The authorities were informed about the incident
“immediately,” Cayley told the  BBC .  Shell’s 1,300-barrel leak compares with BP Plc’s 4.9
million-barrel discharge into the  Gulf of Mexico  last year,
according to U.S. government estimates. Even so, Shell has
“important questions to answer” as it pursues plans to drill
in the Arctic, Vicky Wyatt, a campaigner from environmental
group Greenpeace, said today in an e-mailed statement.  Shell is advancing plans to start oil and gas exploration
in  Alaska ’s  Beaufort Sea  next year, after spending more than
$3.5 billion on licenses in the area. The company has said it
may invest as much as $100 million in equipment such as a
containment dome, which would be lowered onto a well in the
event of a spill.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  