-- 
Sinatra Family Among Dodgers’ Fans Seeking Official Status in Bankruptcy

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-08-16T21:06:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/sinatra-family-among-dodgers-fans-seeking-official-status-in-bankruptcy.html
Los Angeles Dodgers season-ticket
holders, including the singer  Frank Sinatra ’s three children,
will seek an official committee to represent their interests in
court during the team’s bankruptcy.  “We feel the season-ticket holders are the true
stakeholders in the bankruptcy case and currently have no voice
in the case,” Robbin L. Itkin, an attorney for five season
ticket holders, said in an e-mail today. Her clients, including
the Sinatras, represent “the interests of the public who have
supported the Dodgers franchise for years.”  Frank Sinatra Jr., Tina Sinatra and Nancy Sinatra hold
eight seats their father bought in 1958 when the Dodgers moved
to Los Angeles from  Brooklyn ,  New York , where the iconic 1950s
singer and actor became a fan, family attorney Jeffrey Berkowitz
said in an interview.  “They are long-time Dodgers fans,” Berkowitz said. Their
seats are behind the first base dugout in the first and second
rows, he said. The original chairs where Sinatra sat were
preserved and moved to the team offices after the stadium was
remodeled, Berkowitz said.  Bankruptcy Filing  The Dodgers filed for bankruptcy in June after almost two
years of falling attendance and a decline in merchandise sales.
Some fans have sent letters to the judge overseeing the
bankruptcy complaining about the management of the team by its
owner,  Frank McCourt .  The Sinatras and the other season ticket-holders
who plan to participate in the case will seek to have their
legal fees paid by the Dodgers through the appointment of a
court-approved committee.  “Each group member is a current Dodgers season-ticket
holder, with some members having held season tickets since
Dodger Stadium opened in 1962,” attorneys for the group said in
court papers filed today in Wilmington,  Delaware , where the team
is in bankruptcy.  Also today, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Gross declined to
force the team to immediately assume or reject an eight-year
contract with the Dodgers’ souvenir vendor, Los Angeles-based
Facility Merchandising Inc. The company has withheld more than
$300,000 in payments to the team as part of a dispute with
McCourt, company owner Milton A. Arenson said in court.  Attendance Falls  This year, attendance is down 25 percent from 2010, when it
fell 10 percent from the previous year, Arenson said.  “Dodger fans are genuinely disgruntled,” Arenson said in
an interview. “That’s a polite way to put it.”  Team attorney Sidney Levinson, with the law firm of Dewey &
LeBoeuf LLP, told Gross during the hearing that the team has
honored its agreements with FMI and that it was too early in the
bankruptcy case to decide whether the contract should be assumed
or rejected.  Levinson declined to comment on the ticket holders’ request
for a committee, saying he hadn’t yet seen the court filing.  The children of Sinatra, who died in 1998, hold the tickets
in the name of their father and a family lawyer, Itkin said.  There are about 17,000 season-ticket holders, Itkin said.  The case is In re  Los Angeles  Dodgers LLC, 11-12010,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Farr at 
 sfarr@bloomberg.net  