-- 
Singh’s Port Plan Targets China’s 7 Days With $60 Billion: Freight Markets

-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 
2011-08-16T18:38:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/singh-s-port-plan-targets-china-s-7-days-with-60-billion-freight-markets.html
India  aims to pour $60 billion into
ports by 2020 under a drive to spur the fastest growth in more
than two decades and ease bottlenecks stoking the highest
inflation among major economies.  The target is part of Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s
planned $1 trillion revamp of choked transport and power
networks to achieve faster expansion. The push must transcend a
history of insufficient investment, which has left the world’s
most populous democracy trailing a Chinese economy now more than
three times larger.  “If there isn’t enough capacity, you lose time and it adds
to cost,” said Leif Eskesen, a Singapore-based economist at
HSBC Holdings Plc who worked at the  International Monetary Fund .
“India is poised for continued strong growth over the medium
and long term, but further reforms are a must to bring sustained
double-digit growth within reach.”  India’s clogged harbors put  Thermax Ltd. (TMX) , a power-equipment
maker, at a disadvantage to Chinese rivals for obtaining raw
materials and shipping goods.  “It takes 45 days transportation for incoming cargo for me
and similar time when I send it to my customers overseas,” said
M.S. Unnikrishnan, managing director of the company, which is
based in the western city of Pune. “The Chinese can possibly do
it in seven days.”  India’s prime minister is relying partly on investment by
companies such as  DP World Ltd. (DPW)  and AP Moller-Maersk A/S to lift
capability at ports to 3.1 billion tons by 2020 from 963 million
tons in 2010. Achieving this objective would enable greater
imports of items from electronics to oil, helping damp inflation
by better feeding consumer demand. Deeper berths for bigger
 container ships  also are pivotal to India’s attempt at
 galvanizing  exports of items from clothes to cars.  Rival  China   Singh is striving to rival China, the fastest-growing major
economy, by achieving 10 percent annual gains in gross domestic
product, compared with 8.5 percent in the fiscal year that ended
March 31. India has grown at a 10 percent annual pace only  once
since 1953 , in 1988-1989.  China’s gross domestic product, which was about the same
size in 1980 as India’s $182 billion GDP, has swelled to almost
$6 trillion after boosting investment, compared with India’s
$1.7 trillion. About 76 percent of India’s 1.2 billion people
live on less than $2 a day, according to the  World Bank .  The South Asian nation’s attempt to address port-investment
shortfalls stands to benefit builder Larsen and Toubro Ltd.,
according to Taurus Asset Management Co. Increasing cargo
traffic makes Mundra Port & Special Economic Zone Ltd. a buy,
said K.R. Choksey Shares & Securities Pvt. Ltd.  Under Construction  Port projects worth 103 billion rupees ($2.3 billion) are
 under construction or implementation , Ministry of Shipping
figures show. They involve the government and private
enterprise, and include a 35-billion-rupee liquefied natural-gas
terminal at Cochin in the south and the 14.6-billion-rupee
development of berths and a terminal in western  Mumbai  city.  Mumbai-based Larsen and Toubro, India’s biggest builder of
power networks and airports, has climbed more than 9 percent
during the last two years. Mundra, a cargo terminal on the west
coast, is up 26 percent in the same period.  A global stocks rout this month hurt both shares, and the
Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index is down 18 percent so far
this year. Indian equities are now attractively valued and
Mundra is worth buying, said Deven Choksey, managing director at
Mumbai-based K.R. Choksey Shares & Securities, which has $125
million in assets.  ‘Substantial Performance’  Stock prices will recover, corporate-earnings growth will
improve and “then you will see substantial performance by the
infrastructure sector,” said Sadanand Shetty, a Mumbai-based
 fund manager  at Taurus Asset Management, which has about $665
million in assets. At least five of the funds Taurus manages
invested in Larsen and Toubro as of the end of July.  Investor concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis and a U.S.
slowdown will derail global growth sparked the stocks slide.
Even as such risks increase, capacity constraints in the Indian
economy are fueling price pressures, forcing the  Reserve Bank  of
India to fight inflation and protect purchasing power.  Prices climbed more than 9 percent in July from a year
earlier for the eighth straight month. The RBI raised  interest
rates  in 11 steps to 8 percent in July from 4.75 percent at the
start of 2010, with food and oil also stoking costs.  Singh’s effort to take advantage of India’s ports potential
is the latest chapter in a history of maritime commerce dating
from as early as the  third millennium BC , when boats sailed from
the northwestern  Indus Valley  to  Mesopotamia . The spice trade
with India later helped feed the Portuguese empire, before
leading to colonization by the British.  Trade Deficit  The nation has 13 major ports overseen by the central
government and 187 smaller harbors, together accounting for 90
percent of Indian exports by volume, according to the shipping
ministry. India imports more than it exports and had a trade
deficit of almost $105 billion in the last fiscal year.  Some terminals are managed by foreign businesses, including
APM Terminals, a unit of Maersk,  Denmark ’s biggest company. APM
operates  Gujarat Pipavav Port Ltd.  and a terminal at the
Jawaharlal Nehru Port in Mumbai. Dubai-based DP World, the
world’s fourth-largest port operator, has terminals at five
locations from Mundra in the northwest to Cochin in the south.  The push to add wharves and deepen drafts must overcome a
legacy of inadequate investment in a nation that fell 10 places
in the infrastructure ranking to 86th among countries in the
 World Economic Forum ’s 2010-2011  Global Competitiveness Report .
Spending on ports may amount to 406 billion rupees for the five-
year period ending March 2012, less than half the original aim,
according to the  Planning Commission .  ‘Problem Area’  “I am not sure about the ability to implement the
projects,” said Laveesh Bhandari, a director of Indicus
Analytics, an economics research firm in  New Delhi . “I have no
doubt that they will plan well, but execution and implementation
will remain the problem area.”  Cargo handling is more than twice as costly as in  Singapore 
and takes over four days on average compared with six hours in
 Hong Kong ,  research  by India’s Department of Commerce shows.  Sufficient rail and road links to ports also are lacking,
said Prakash Tulsiani, managing director of Gujarat Pipavav
Port. The government should let terminals set tariffs rather
than regulate prices, he said. Officials set fees for major
harbors.  Even as obstacles remain, port investment is on course to
jump 76 percent in the five years through March 2012 from 230
billion rupees in the previous five-year period, planning
commission data show. India’s  Maritime Agenda  has set a spending
goal of 2.77 trillion rupees by 2020.  Relax  Labor Laws   Further overhauling regulations that deter investment and
relaxing labor laws that make it difficult to hire and fire
workers can add 2.5 percentage points of growth to  Asia ’s third-
largest economy, Credit Suisse Group AG estimates.  Privately managed ports show the benefits of
liberalization, said Vinayak Chatterjee, chairman of Gurgaon,
India-based Feedback Ventures Ltd., which advises on
construction projects.  “They are far more aggressive and dynamic and customer
friendly,” he said. “Once allowed to implement and
operationalize, they deliver. The bottlenecks seem to be at the
policy level.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  