-- 
Skowron, Liquor Tax, Credit Suisse, Pfizer-Teva: Compliance

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 
2011-08-16T11:40:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/skowron-lockhart-liquor-tax-credit-suisse-viagra-patent-compliance.html
Ex-FrontPoint Partners LLC hedge
fund manager Joseph F. “Chip” Skowron pleaded guilty in a U.S.
insider-trading case.  Skowron, a medical doctor, pleaded guilty yesterday to one
count of conspiring to commit  securities fraud  and to obstruct a
Securities and Exchange Commission investigation for trading on
inside information about Human Genome Science Inc. and then
lying to investigators.  “I knew my actions were wrong and I deeply regret my
participation in these activities,” Skowron told U.S. District
Judge  Denise Cote  in Manhattan yesterday. He faces as much as
five years in prison when he’s sentenced Nov. 18.  “Dr. Skowron lied to and misled FrontPoint’s internal
compliance team, the external counsel hired to independently
investigate his actions, and the federal government,”
FrontPoint said in a statement yesterday. “FrontPoint was never
accused of any wrongdoing and has fully resolved this matter
with the government.”  The government claimed that Skowron obtained nonpublic
information from Yves Benhamou, an expert in hepatitis drugs and
a former adviser for Human Genome Sciences. The tips, concerning
hepatitis C drug trials, let Greenwich, Connecticut-based
FrontPoint avoid more than $30 million in losses, the U.S. said.  Prosecutors claimed Skowron gave Benhamou more than $14,600
in cash and paid for hotel rooms and expenses. Benhamou has
pleaded guilty.  As part of the plea agreement Skowron agreed to forfeit $5
million to the government.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Skowron, 11-MAG-00997; the
civil case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Benhamou,
10-cv-8266, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Lockhart Says Fed ‘Not Out of Bullets’ If Economy Slows  Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta President  Dennis Lockhart 
said the central bank could purchase more Treasuries or alter
its balance sheet if the U.S. economy were to slow further.  “If additional actions are required, I can assure you the
Federal Reserve is not out of bullets,” Lockhart said in a
speech yesterday in Florence, Alabama. “Expansion of the
balance sheet or changes in the composition of the Fed’s asset
portfolio are available, in my view. These could be quite
effective, particularly if done in sufficient size, in the event
that the economy retreats back into contractionary territory.”  The Federal Open Market Committee lowered its economic
assessment, saying it now “expects a somewhat slower pace of
recovery over the coming quarters.” It left the door open for
more action, saying it discussed “the range of policy tools
available to promote a stronger economic recovery.”  “I’m currently cautious about further monetary action,”
Lockhart said in the speech to the Rotary Club of Florence. “I
still maintain that a resumption of growth is the most likely
case. But if that assessment proves to be wrong, I believe we do
have tools to address whatever circumstances arise.”  For more, click here.  Philippine Liquor Tax Illegal, WTO Says, Backing U.S., EU  Philippine taxes on imports of distilled spirits made by
companies including Pernod Ricard SA and Brown-Forman Corp. are
illegal, the World Trade Organization said yesterday, backing
U.S. and the European Union complaints.  The ruling may help European and U.S. companies boost their
share of the Philippines’ $3 billion liquor market. WTO judges
in Geneva rejected the Philippines’ argument that imported
liquor such as Jim Beam whiskey, Brandy de Jerez and Southern
Comfort don’t compete with locally made distilled spirits and
that different taxes based on the raw material used to make the
liquor should be legal.  The Philippines applies a lower tax rate on sugar and palm-
based drinks produced within the country. Levies on foreign
spirits are in some cases almost 50 times higher than those on
domestic liquor, according to the EU. The Philippines should
bring its measure into conformity with its obligations, WTO
judges said in their  ruling , posted on the trade arbiter’s
website.  “The discriminatory taxation system has led to a decline
of overall consumption of imported spirits of 1 percent since
2005, while consumption of local spirits has grown over 8
percent in the same period,” according to the European
Commission in Brussels.  Compliance Action  Credit Suisse Likely to Settle Criminal Tax Probe, Lawyers Say  Credit Suisse Group AG, the Swiss bank facing possible U.S.
indictment for aiding  tax evasion , will likely settle with
prosecutors by admitting wrongdoing and paying a penalty that
may exceed $1 billion, tax lawyers said.  Credit Suisse, the second-largest Swiss bank, has too much
to lose by fighting the Justice Department and risking
indictment, said lawyers not involved in the case. Prosecutors
told the bank last month that it’s a target of a probe into its
former cross-border banking services to U.S. customers.  The lawyers expect Credit Suisse to reach an agreement like
that of  UBS AG (UBSN) , which was charged in 2009 with aiding tax
evasion by U.S. clients. UBS avoided prosecution by paying $780
million, admitting it fostered tax evasion, and giving the U.S.
Internal Revenue Service data on more than 250 accounts. It
later turned over data on another 4,450 accounts.  “The UBS deferred-prosecution agreement is going to be a
template for what happens with Credit Suisse,” said tax
attorney Bryan Skarlatos. “It’s very likely that they’ll reach
an agreement with the U.S. government, pay a fine, and possibly
turn over names.”  Victoria Harmon, a spokeswoman for Zurich-based Credit
Suisse, declined to comment, referring to a July 21 statement.
Seven Credit Suisse bankers, including the former head of North
American offshore banking, Markus Walder, were indicted that day
in federal court in Alexandria, Virginia, on a charge of helping
U.S. clients evade taxes through secret accounts.  “Credit Suisse is committed to a fully compliant cross-
border business,” the bank said in that statement. “Subject to
our Swiss legal obligations and throughout this process we will
continue to cooperate with the U.S. authorities in an effort to
resolve these matters.”  PwC Faulted by U.K. Regulator Probing JPMorgan Client Assets  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP failed to properly report on
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s compliance with U.K. rules to protect
client money, Britain’s accounting regulator said following a
10-month probe.  An independent tribunal will decide on any sanctions after
considering a formal complaint filed by the  Financial Reporting
Council , according to a statement on its website yesterday. The
company cooperated in the probe, according to the regulator.  “PwC did not carry out its professional work in relation
to these reports with due skill, care and diligence and with
proper regard for the applicable technical and professional
standards expected of it,” the regulator said.  The FRC investigated reports by PwC’s London unit covering
JPMorgan’s observance of the  Financial Services Authority ’s
client-asset rules, which are intended to segregate customer
assets from those of the company to protect them during a
liquidation.  “It is naturally a matter of regret that, in respect of
one aspect of our work, we did not meet our normal high
standards,” a PwC spokesman said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement.  Mercurius Capital Chief Fined $3.3 Million by U.K. Regulator  Michiel Weiger Visser, the chief executive officer of
Mercurius Capital Management Ltd., was fined 2 million pounds
($3.3 million) and banned by U.K. regulators from working in the
industry for market abuse and deceiving investors.  The hedge fund’s chief financial officer and head of
compliance, Oluwole Fagbulu, was fined 100,000 pounds and also
banned for disguising the financial performance of one of its
funds, which collapsed in 2008, the Financial Services Authority
said in a statement yesterday. The 20 investors in Mercurius’s
International Fund haven’t recovered any of the 35 million euros
($50 million) it had under management, the regulator said.  Visser hid his investment decisions for over a year,
allowing the fund to raise 8 million euros of new capital in the
three months before it collapsed, the FSA said.  Visser and Fagbulu “engaged in a sustained and deliberate
course of deception to present a picture of the fund’s
performance that was entirely false,” said Tracey McDermott,
the acting director of enforcement and financial crime at the
FSA.  Courts  Pfizer Wins Viagra Patent-Infringement Case Against Teva  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  won a patent-infringement case that prevents
 Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  from marketing a generic
version of the impotence drug Viagra until 2019.  U.S. District Judge Rebecca Beach Smith in Norfolk,
Virginia, ruled Aug. 12 against Petach Tikva, Israel-based Teva,
which claimed the patent wasn’t valid and couldn’t be enforced.  “Teva has not shown by clear and convincing evidence that
the patent is invalid,” Smith said in a 110-page opinion. In
addition, “there is utterly no evidence” to support Teva’s
claim that that Pfizer intentionally withheld documents from the
U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, Smith wrote.  “Protecting the intellectual property rights of our
innovative core is critical,” Amy Schulman, Pfizer’s general
counsel, said in a statement. “Friday’s court decision
acknowledges Teva’s clear violation of our patent rights.”  Denise Bradley, a Teva spokeswoman, declined to comment on
the ruling.  “While we expect Teva to appeal, the ruling represents a
clear positive for Pfizer,” said Christopher Schott, a New
York-based analyst for JPMorgan Chase & Co., in a note to
clients yesterday. He said the ruling is worth about 3 cents to
Pfizer’s 2012 earnings per share and about 6 cents to annual
earnings per share through 2019.  The case is Pfizer v. Teva, 10-cv-128, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Virginia (Norfolk).  Ex-Optionable Chief Admits to Scheme to Hide Bank Losses  Former  Optionable Inc. (OPBL)  Chief Executive Officer Kevin
Cassidy pleaded guilty to his role in a scheme to hide millions
of dollars in losses at the  Bank of Montreal. (BMO)   Cassidy, 52, pleaded guilty yesterday in Manhattan federal
court to one count of conspiracy to commit  wire fraud . The judge
set a Dec. 15 sentencing date.  The case stems from C$680 million ($690.5 million) of
pretax commodity-trading losses the bank announced in April
2007. Those losses grew to C$853 million for the fiscal year,
paring profit by C$440 million. Cassidy was charged with fraud
in 2008 for helping a former trader at the bank conceal the
losses.  Cassidy, an ex- convict  who hid his criminal record, helped
former trader David Lee hide commodity losses from the bank to
win business for Optionable, a brokerage firm focusing on energy
derivatives, according to prosecutors.  Cassidy was sentenced to 30 months in prison for credit-
card fraud in 1997 and six months for income-tax evasion in
1993, court records show.  The case is U.S. v. Cassidy, 08-CR-1101, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Renesas Complaint Seeks to Bar U.S. Imports of Vizio TVs  Renesas Electronics Corp. (6723) , the world’s biggest maker of
microcontrollers used in cars and appliances, filed patent-
infringement complaints seeking to block Vizio Inc. televisions
from the U.S.  Renesas accused Vizio of violating rights on two patents in
an Aug. 12  filing  with the U.S. International Trade Commission
in Washington. The Japanese company also sued closely held Vizio
in a federal court in Marshall, Texas.  One patent covers an arrangement of connections on the
surface of the circuit, while the second is for a manufacturing
process that reduces corrosion, according to the ITC complaint.
Kawasaki, Japan-based Renesas contends that circuits in Vizio’s
digital televisions are made using these patented inventions.  Vizio, based in Irvine, California, has its own patent-
infringement case pending against Renesas at the ITC that was
instituted last month.  Renesas, formed in 2003 from the semiconductor divisions of
 Hitachi Ltd. (6501)  and  Mitsubishi Electric Corp. (6503) , is owned by those
two companies and NEC Corp., according to the ITC complaint.  The civil case is Renesas Electronics Corp. v. Vizio Inc.,
11cv356, U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas
(Marshall). The ITC case is In the Matter of Digital Televisions
Containing Integrated Circuit Devices, Complaint No. 2840, U.S.
International Trade Commission (Washington).  The Vizio case against Renesas is In the Matter of Digital
Televisions and Components Thereof, 337-789, U.S. International
Trade Commission (Washington).  Ex-Ahold Executive Kaiser to Plead Guilty in Fraud Case  The former marketing chief of Dutch grocer Royal Ahold NV’s
U.S. unit, who was sentenced to seven years in prison for
overstating earnings only to have his conviction thrown out,
pleaded guilty in a Manhattan court.  Former U.S. Foodservice Inc. executive Mark Kaiser entered
a plea yesterday to charges he participated in an $800 million
securities fraud. He was convicted in 2006 of helping the
subsidiary inflate profits from 2000 to 2003 by wrongly
recording promotional rebates as income.  Prosecutors alleged Kaiser made fraudulent representations
about U.S. Foodservice’s financial condition in a bid to burnish
his resume for a promotion at the Columbia, Maryland-based unit.  In July 2010, the U.S. Court of Appeals in New York threw
out his convictions for securities fraud, conspiracy and four
counts of making false filings with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission.  The appeals court said he was entitled to a new trial
because the lower court judge erred by admitting into evidence
the statement of the unit’s general counsel.  The case is U.S. v. Kaiser, 04-cr-733, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Ex-Brocade Chief Reyes Agrees to Pay $845,000 in SEC Case  Former  Brocade Communications Systems Inc. (BRCD)  Chief Executive
Officer Greg Reyes, convicted of securities fraud for backdating
employee stock-option grants, agreed to pay $845,251 to resolve
a regulator’s lawsuit.  The settlement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, if approved by a judge, would resolve the agency’s
case “in its entirety,” SEC Assistant Regional Director Robert
Leach said in a filing yesterday in San Francisco federal court.  The amount includes a $550,000 fine and $295,251 in
disgorgement and interest, the filing said. Reyes also agreed
not to violate securities laws, according to a filing signed by
his attorney Neal Stephens.  Reyes was found guilty of securities fraud and other
charges last year at his second trial stemming from stock-
options manipulation at San Jose, California-based Brocade, the
biggest maker of switches for data-storage networks. He was
sentenced to 18 months in prison.  The case is SEC v. Reyes, 06-4435, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Francisco).  Pennsylvania Man Admits to Role in $18 Million Ponzi Scheme  A Pennsylvania man admitted to his role in a $17.6 million
Ponzi scheme that defrauded more than 260 investors.  Robert Stinson Jr., 56, of Berwyn, pleaded guilty yesterday
in federal court in Philadelphia to 26 charges, including wire
fraud, mail fraud,  money laundering  and bank fraud, the Justice
Department said in a statement. There was no plea agreement,
according to the plea memorandum.  Stinson was charged in November, accused of lying about his
education and promising returns of 10 percent to 16 percent from
real estate hedge funds. He allegedly told investors that the
funds made short-term commercial mortgage loans, while he used
the money to pay himself and relatives and to buy expensive cars
and vacations, according to an indictment.  The charges carry a maximum penalty of 329 years in prison
and a $6.8 million fine. His sentencing is scheduled for Dec.
13.  The case is U.S. vs. Stinson, 10-cr-00724; a related
lawsuit is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stinson, 2:10-
cv-3130, both in U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Pennsylvania (Philadelphia).  Goldman Sachs Sued Over ‘Junk’ Mortgage Securities by Allstate  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  was sued by Allstate Insurance Co.
over the sale of more than $100 million worth of residential
mortgage-backed securities that the insurer claims the bank
itself called “junk” and “lemons.”  Allstate asked for damages including the lost market value
of the securities, plus principal and interest payments in the
complaint filed yesterday in New York state Supreme Court in
Manhattan.  The insurer, based in Northbrook, Illinois, has filed
similar suits against JPMorgan Chase & Co. over $700 million of
mortgage-backed securities the bank sold the insurer;  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  units for more than $231 million of the
securities; Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit over some
$167 million;  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  for more than $200 million; and
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , over about $185 million. Allstate said the
banks misrepresented underwriting standards, owner occupancy
data and loan-to-value ratios.  Goldman Sachs knew these types of securities were “junk,”
“dogs,” “crap” and “lemons,” according to the complaint.
Allstate claims the words are Goldman Sachs’s own, recently
revealed in governmental investigations, to describe them.  The case is Allstate Insurance Co. v. Goldman Sachs & Co.,
652273/2011, New York state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  Interviews  Greece, Portugal Should Leave the Euro, Soros Says in Spiegel  A “regulated” exit for Greece and Portugal from the
single currency may be the best path, George Soros, the
billionaire investor, said in an interview with  Der Spiegel.   “The European Union and the euro would survive it,” the
German magazine quoted him as saying. Soros said that the
immediate introduction of euro bonds is the only way out of
Europe’s debt crisis, according to Der Spiegel.  Pitt Says ‘Impossible’ for SEC to Dictate Credit Ratings: Video  Harvey Pitt, chief executive officer of Kalorama Partners
LLC and former chairman of the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, talks about a possible SEC review into the method
Standard & Poor’s used to cut the U.S.’s credit rating and
whether the firm properly protected the confidential decision.  Pitt spoke with Erik Schatzker yesterday on Bloomberg
Television’s “InsideTrack.”]  To watch the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  Italy May Name Saccomanni Central Bank Governor, Repubblica Says  Italy’s Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi reached an
agreement with Bank of Italy Governor Mario Draghi to name
Fabrizio Saccomanni as his successor to lead the central bank,
 La Repubblica  reported, without saying how it obtained the
information.  Saccomanni, director general at the Bank of Italy, would
replace Draghi in November when he becomes head of the European
Central Bank, the newspaper said. Spokesmen at the bank and the
government press office didn’t answer calls for comment
yesterday, a holiday in Italy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 