-- 
Sky City Expects Rugby World Cup Fans, Asian Gamblers to Increase Revenue

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-08-16T21:57:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/sky-city-expects-rugby-world-cup-fans-asian-gamblers-to-increase-revenue.html
Sky City Entertainment Group Ltd. (SKC) ,
New Zealand’s largest casino company, expects increased revenue
and earnings from its Auckland site buoyed by Asian visitors and
 Rugby World Cup  fans.  “With Rugby  World Cup  upon us in less than a month and our
Auckland flagship property in great shape, we are excited and
optimistic about the future,” Chief Executive Officer Nigel Morrison said in a statement. The Auckland-based company today
reporter net income rose 21 percent to NZ$123 million ($103
million) in the year ended June 30. Analysts had forecast annual
profit of NZ$127.8 million.  New Zealand officials expect 95,000 overseas fans will
attend the rugby games in September and October, when Auckland
will host two semi-finals and the final as well as 12 other
games. Sky City has invested NZ$50 million at its Auckland site,
adding new bars, restaurants and gaming rooms for tourists and
high net worth visitors.  “Sky City has a major focus on attracting international
tourism, in particular visitors from China and  Asia , and the
eastern seaboard of  Australia ,” said Morrison.  The company opened new suites for so-called high-rollers in
mid-July, boosting gaming turnover compared with the year
earlier period, it said. Overall gaming machine revenue at its
Auckland casino in the period July 1 to Aug. 15 is 15 percent
higher than the year-earlier period, it said.  The Rugby World Cup will boost operating earnings at the
company’s Auckland hotel by NZ$8 million, it said.  Sky City also took a NZ$15 million write-down in the value
of the company’s 50-percent owned Christchurch casino, where
trading was affected by a severe earthquake.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson   iwilson2@bloomberg.net  