-- 
Slovak GDP Growth Slows to 3.3% on Exports, Spending Cuts

-- B y   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k
-- 
2011-08-16T12:11:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/slovak-economy-unexpectedly-grew-3-3-in-second-quarter-on-export-demand.html
The Slovak economy grew at a slower
pace in second quarter compared with previous three months as
the economies of its exports partners weakened and government
austerity measures hurt consumer demand.  The economy advanced a preliminary 3.3 percent from the
same period last year, compared with 3.5 percent in the previous
quarter and a median estimate of 3.6 percent in a Bloomberg
survey of four economists. On a quarterly basis, gross domestic
product grew a seasonally adjusted 0.9 percent, the same pace as
in the previous three months, the Bratislava, Slovakia-based
 office  said today on its website.  The euro-area member is relying on foreign demand for its
products, including cars made by Volkswagen AG’s local unit, to
drive economic growth after a recession in 2009. The slowdown in
its main export partners, such as  Germany  whose economy almost
stalled in the first quarter, represents a risk for Slovakia as
household consumption remains subdued because of the
government’s spending cuts.  “The expansion was probably driven by exports, Slovaks
remain cautious with spending despite rather strong employment
growth,” Eduard Hagara, an economist at ING Bank in Bratislava,
said in an e-mailed note. “Recent economic figures suggest
risks that full-year growth will be slower than expected.”  The second-quarter economic growth as well as the increase
in employment were “slightly” above central bank’s
expectations, Narodna Banka Slovenska said on its web site. The
bank said it will wait for detailed GDP data to draw any
conclusion.  Employment rose 2.1 percent from the second quarter of
2011, compared with a 2.2 percent increase in the previous
quarter, the office said. It didn’t release a breakdown of data.
It will publish a final second-quarter GDP report on Sept. 6.  The  Finance Ministry  expects the economy to expand 3.6
percent this year and 4.4 percent in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Radoslav Tomek in Bratislava News at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  