-- 
Solon Cuts Jobs in Germany, Arizona Amid Falling Solar Profit

-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 
2011-08-16T11:44:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/solon-plans-to-eliminate-60-jobs-at-its-headquarters-in-berlin.html
Solon SE (SOO1) , a German solar company,
plans to cut 15 percent of its workforce and shut a U.S. module
manufacturing plant to reduce costs amid falling profits.  Solon expects to slash the jobs of 60 of its 430 workers at
its Berlin headquarters and 60 more will lose work when its
Tucson, Arizona, manufacturing plant closes by the end of
October, Therese Raatz, a company spokeswoman, said today in a
phone interview.  More jobs may be affected if the module maker decides on
reductions elsewhere, she said. Die Welt newspaper reported that
Solon may fire 265 of its 805 employees in Germany, the U.S. and
 Italy . Raatz declined to comment on that figure, saying Solon is
“looking at all locations.”  Solon and rivals Q-Cells SE and Conergy AG have suffered as
governments in  Germany  and Italy cut subsidies for solar power
to limit new installations. They’re also coping with falling
prices for cells and modules and increasing competition from
Chinese peers including JA Solar Holdings Co. and Suntech Power
Holdings Co.  On Aug. 10, Solon reported a first-half net loss of 63.1
million euros ($91 million) compared with a 9.5 million-euro
loss in the same period in 2010. By the end of this year, Solon
must pay back a 275 million-euro loan to eight German banks led
by Deutsche Bank AG.  Solon is in negotiations to extend the group loan deadline
and expects an agreement in the fourth quarter, Raatz said.
“The negotiations are becoming more concrete,” she said.  The company expects the closure of its Arizona plant, where
it seeks to focus on developing solar projects for utilities and
large commercial clients, to result in yearly savings in the
“high single-digit-million-euro range,” Raatz said. In Berlin,
the cuts will affect mainly administration and not production,
she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  