-- 
Somali Militant Beatings Worsen Spiral of Famine as Refugees Flee Drought

-- B y   P a u l   R i c h a r d s o n
-- 
2011-08-17T06:26:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/somali-drought-extortion-by-al-qaeda-backed-rebels-fuel-famine.html
Abdi Hassan lies in a hospital bed
in the world’s biggest refugee camp recovering from a beating by
tax collectors from  Somalia ’s al-Qaeda-inspired militants who
smashed his left hip and knee with rifle butts.  The 20-year-old herder refused to hand over some of his
camels to the militants, known as al-Shabaab, or “the youth”
in Arabic, who confiscate crops and livestock from civilians to
help finance their campaign to overthrow  Somalia ’s western-
backed government. The militants generate $70 million to $100
million a year from taxation and extortion, the United Nations
 Monitoring Group on Somalia and Eritrea  estimated last month.  “Al-Shabaab used us for tax, but those of us who refused
were attacked,” Hassan said in an interview at the Ifo hospital
in the Dadaab refugee camp in northeastern Kenya. “I resisted
and they beat me. Now I can only lie on one side and I need my
mother’s help to move.”  With East Africa hit by what the UN says is the worst
drought in six decades, threatening 12 million people with
hunger, the insurgents’ levies are squeezing an increasingly
destitute population, exacerbating Somalia’s spreading famine.
Al-Shabaab’s own military and financial power is waning. Last
week, it withdrew from Mogadishu, the capital, after defeats by
African Union-backed government forces.  The $1 million a month the group once earned by controlling
the southern port of Kismayo has dwindled because the growth of
piracy off the Horn of Africa nation’s coast has cut the number
of vessels visiting the area, said Bronwyn Bruton, a Somalia
researcher and former fellow at the  Council on Foreign
Relations .  Swelling Exodus  In addition, the exodus of farmers is slashing the $500,000
a month al-Shabaab was earning from confiscating a portion of
their crops and livestock and trading in charcoal, she said.  More than 184,000 people have fled Somalia so far this year
to countries including neighboring Kenya, Ethiopia, Djibouti and
Yemen. The exodus has swelled the number of Somali refugees in
the region to more than 800,000 and overwhelmed international
efforts to deal with them.  The  UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs 
says donors so far have provided 46 percent of the $2.46 billion
needed to deal with the effects of the drought.  Dadaab, which was built 20 years ago for 90,000 refugees,
now is a complex of three camps and is home to more than 400,000
people, making it  Kenya ’s third-largest population center, after
Nairobi and  Mombasa , according to the 2009 census.  Acute Malnutrition  The U.S.-funded Famine Early Warning Systems Network
estimates that 38 percent of the population in southern Somalia
is suffering from malnutrition. About half of the country’s 7.8
million people need food aid, 560,000 of them children who are
either acutely or severely malnourished, Fewsnet said on its
 website .  “The worst is yet to come because the drought isn’t likely
to end for the next two to three months,” Abubakar Mohamed
Mahamud, a field coordinator for MSF, or  Doctors Without
Borders , a medical charity founded in  France , said in an
interview in Dadaab. “Even when the rains do come, there won’t
be food within a month.”  Al-Shabaab has described the UN’s declaration of a famine
in Somalia on July 20 as a “baseless claim” and has blocked
most humanitarian groups from operating in areas under its
control.  Troops Needed  Somali President Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed has visited
three East African countries since al-Shabaab’s exit from
Mogadishu, issuing appeals in Tanzania, Uganda and Burundi for
more forces to bolster the African Union’s peacekeeping mission
there. Only Uganda and Burundi now contribute peacekeepers to
the mission.  As the civilians flee Somalia, they face a gauntlet of Al-
Shabaab gunmen trying to stop them, says Rahul Oka, an economic
anthropologist at the University of  Notre Dame  in  South Bend ,
 Indiana , who has been researching Islamist movements in East
Africa for five years.  “They don’t want people leaving their areas because of the
tax they take from residents,” he said in a phone interview
from Mombasa, Kenya. “A fleeing populace is also seen as a
source of loss, that they’re losing the confidence of the
people.”  Sexual Assault  Sangabo Hassan’s eldest daughter was raped and all of her
family’s possessions were stolen by armed men on their 25-day
journey to Dadaab. After abandoning her home near Baidoa, 224
kilometers (140 miles) northwest of Mogadishu, the 40-year-old
single mother and her eight children headed for Dadaab.  “They caned us with sticks and took everything we had,”
Hassan said in an interview in Dagahaley, one of three camps in
the Dadaab complex. “They raped my 18-year-old daughter and
they took her away. She has come back and now she is pregnant.”  Sexual-assault cases among refugees arriving in Dadaab have
quadrupled from a year ago, according to  CARE International .  “The most dangerous period for refugees is when they are
on the move,” said Caroline Saint-Mieux, CARE’s emergency team
leader in Dadaab. “Women and girls are especially vulnerable to
rape, abduction, illness and even death on the journey.”  Those who make it to  Dadaab  live in an assortment of mud
houses, UN tents and “tukuls” -- dome-shaped dwellings made of
bent sticks and covered with grass, old blankets, empty food aid
bags or plastic. Once registered, they receive enough corn
flour, beans, sugar and salt for three weeks, as well as
sleeping mats, blankets and cooking utensils.  12-Day Walk  As grim as conditions are in the camp, they are a vast
improvement on life in Somalia, said Osoba Hassan, a 42-year-old
mother of five who spent 12 days walking to Dadaab from her home
in southern Somalia.  “There was no food to swallow and no water to drink,” she
said. “We would have to start from square one if we went back
and that’s what I’m doing here. It’s better to stay here where
it’s peaceful.”  In July alone, 40,434 Somalis reached Dadaab, the most
arrivals in a month since the camps were built, according to the
UN. With no end in sight to the influx, the UN is constructing a
fourth camp in the complex, said William Spindler, a spokesman
for the UN Refugee Agency.  “We’re under severe strain from the sheer number of people
who are arriving that have stretched the system to breaking
point,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Richardson  in Dadaab refugee camp, Kenya, at 
440 or  pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 