-- 
Soros, Mindich Cut SPDR Gold Share Holdings in 2nd Quarter

-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y   a n d   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-08-16T11:48:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/soros-mindich-cut-stake-in-spdr-gold-holding-as-cohen-s-sac-adds-options.html
George Soros  and  Eric Mindich  cut
their holdings in the SPDR Gold Trust in the second quarter as
prices rallied to a record, while billionaire  John Paulson 
maintained the largest stake, according to fund records.  Soros Fund Management LLC held 42,800 shares in the biggest
exchange-traded product backed by gold as of June 30, compared
with 49,400 at the end of the first quarter, a filing with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission showed yesterday.
Mindich’s Eton Park Capital Management LP cut its stake to
813,000 shares from 2.328 million, a separate filing showed,
while Paulson & Co. kept its 31.5 million shares.  Gold is set for an 11th year of gains as  Europe ’s
sovereign-debt crisis and concern that the  U.S. economy  may be
slowing spur demand for a haven. Money managers who oversee more
than $100 million in equities must file a Form 13F with the SEC
within 45 days of each quarter’s end showing U.S.-listed stocks,
options and convertible bonds, offering insights into how some
of the world’s biggest investors are positioned.  “The current low-interest-rate environment and the
weakening dollar will continue to enhance the appeal of gold,”
said Ong Yi Ling, an investment analyst at Singapore-based
Phillip Futures Pte. While some investors were concerned about
the pace of rally, prices are likely to reach $2,000 an ounce in
the next 12 months, she said by phone.  Bullion’s Rally  Bullion for immediate delivery, which reached a record
$1,814.95 an ounce on Aug. 11, was up 0.6 percent at $1,776.60
by 12:33 p.m. in London. The precious metal, which ended the
second quarter at $1,500.35, has rallied 25 percent this year,
compared with the 4.2 percent drop by the  Standard & Poor’s  500
Index. Treasuries returned 6.5 percent in 2011, a Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index showed.  Investors in gold-backed ETPs owned about 2,186 metric tons
of the metal as of yesterday, more than all except four central
banks hold, according to Bloomberg calculations. The amount of
gold tied to ETPs -- which trade on exchanges, with each share
representing metal held in a vault -- surged to record 2,217
tons last week.  Steven A. Cohen’s SAC Capital Advisors LP, which manages
about $14 billion, and Eton Park placed bets on rising prices
during the second quarter, their SEC 13F filings show.  $627.7 Million  Stamford, Connecticut-based SAC Capital held 4.3 million
 call options  linked to the SPDR Gold Trust valued at $627.7
million as of June 30, according to its filing. There was no
record of any  SPDR Gold shares (GLD)  or options in the billionaire’s
portfolio in the first quarter, another filing showed. Mindich
added 2.702 million call options on SPDR Gold shares during the
latest quarter, taking the total options position to 8.702
million.  At the end of the fourth quarter, Soros owned 4.72 million
shares of SPDR Gold and sold most of his holdings in the three
months to March 31. In January last year, the 81-year-old
described the precious metal as “the ultimate asset bubble.”  The metal has also risen to records in euros and pounds as
Europe’s debt woes boosted demand for a protection of wealth and
Standard & Poor’s cut its U.S. credit rating. The  Federal
Reserve  has kept borrowing costs near zero since December 2008.  ‘Safe-Haven Buying’  A lot of gold “is currently held by physical investors,
whose positions tend to be stickier than those of speculators,”
 Edel Tully , a London-based analyst at UBS AG, wrote today in a
report. “The investment demand that pushed gold to fresh highs
was safe-haven buying inspired by macroeconomic uncertainty
which is unlikely to disappear anytime soon.”  Paulson’s SPDR Gold holdings comprised almost 16 percent of
the firm’s total portfolio, and their value has soared about 62
percent since he bought the shares in 2009.  Paulson trimmed his stake in Johannesburg-based  AngloGold
Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  by selling 1.1 million American depositary
receipts, holding 39.9 million at the end of the quarter. The
company remained the hedge fund’s biggest investment after the
SPDR Gold Trust. Paulson sold his stake in Canadian miner
Kinross Gold Corp.  Michael Vachon , a spokesman for Soros, didn’t respond to a
voicemail or answer the phone after calls from Bloomberg outside
normal business hours.  Armel Leslie , a spokesman for  New York- 
based Paulson, declined to comment on the filing.  Mindich of Eton Park declined to comment. Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for SAC, didn’t immediately respond to a
voicemail left by Bloomberg outside normal business hours.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Larkin in  London  at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at   sstroth@bloomberg.net ;
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net  