-- 
South African’s Government Workers to Sign 6.8% Salary Increase Agreement

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-08-16T15:51:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/south-african-government-workers-to-sign-6-8-salary-increase-agreement.html
South African teachers, nurses and
other state workers accepted an improved government offer to
raise wages by 6.8 percent, averting the repetition of a strike
that shut schools and disrupted hospital services last year.  The wage offer can be implemented after it was accepted by
“81.8 percent of the public service unions,” the Public Service
and Administration Ministry said in an e-mailed statement today.  Sizwe Pamla, a spokesman for the 255,000-member National
Education Health & Allied Workers’ Union, and Nomusa Cembi, a
spokeswoman for the 250,000-member South African Democratic
Teachers Unions, confirmed the pay agreement.  The 14 unions representing  South Africa ’s 1.3 million state
workers previously demanded a 9 percent raise, while the
government offered 5.2 percent.  Last year, civil servants won a 7.5 percent raise and a 60
percent increase in housing allowances after staging a 20-day
strike that followed nine months of negotiations. South Africa’s
inflation rate was 5 percent in June.  The national budget, released on Feb. 23, provides for the
government wage bill to grow an average 6.6 percent annually
over the three fiscal years that began on April 1. That increase
includes the cost of hiring additional workers.  The Public Servants Association is still consulting its
220,000 members about whether to accept the government’s latest
wage offer, which will be backdated to May 1, said Manie de Clercq, the union’s deputy general manager.  “I do not think that we will get more when it comes to
salaries, even if we continue with negotiations,” he said by
telephone from  Pretoria  today.  Workers in the oil and mining industry have won pay
increases of as much as 10 percent over the past month, after
embarking on strikes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 