-- 
South African Four-Year Borrowing Costs Fall to Record Low on Yield Allure

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-08-16T11:58:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/south-african-four-year-borrowing-costs-fall-to-record-low-on-yield-allure.html
South African bonds gained, driving
the yield on 2015 notes to a record low, as signs of slowing
growth in the U.S. and  Europe  drew investors to the nation’s
relatively high-yielding debt.  The 13.5 percent notes due 2015 added 24 cents to 123.16
rand as of 12:49 p.m. in Johannesburg, pushing the yield down
six basis points, or 0.06 percentage points, to 6.87 percent,
the lowest on a closing basis on record, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The yield has dropped 104 basis points
from its 2011 high on March 8.  Foreign investors have bought 4.7 billion rand ($655.4
million) of South African bonds in the past two weeks, even as
they sold 5.9 billion rand of stocks as  risk aversion  rose after
 Standard & Poor’s  cut the U.S.’s credit ratings on Aug. 8. The
extra yield investors receive for buying South African four-year
bonds rather than U.S. Treasuries is 6.15 percentage points,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The spread has widened
from 5.15 percent on Jan. 5, the smallest this year.  The rally in South African bonds “is purely foreign-
driven,” Andre Roux, who oversees about 30 billion rand of
bonds at Cape Town-based Investec Asset Management, said by
phone. “It is more a response to global yields coming down;
we’re moving in sympathy rather than opposition to them.”  U.S. Treasuries rose, extending a 57 basis-point decline in
the 10-year yield over the past month, before a government
report that economists said will show U.S. housing starts fell
in July, signaling residential real estate is failing to
contribute to economic growth.  EU Growth  Treasuries also gained as reports showed European economic
growth slowed more than economists forecast in the second
quarter as  Germany ’s recovery almost ground to a halt.  “As long as U.S. Treasury yields continue to fall, our
market will follow,” Roux said.  Decelerating growth may prompt the  European Central Bank  to
increase monetary stimulus, Tradition Analytics strategists led
by Johannesburg-based Quinten Bertenshaw said in a research
note.  “The more it becomes clear that global central banks are
kick-starting the money creation process very aggressively, the
better so-called risk assets will do,” Tradition said. “Local
bonds will benefit from rebounding risk appetite going
forward.”  South African bonds also gained on speculation the
Pretoria-based  Reserve Bank  will delay an increase in borrowing
costs as growth in  Africa ’s biggest economy falters.  Rate Outlook  While the central bank’s mandate requires it to keep
inflation within a range of 3 percent to 6 percent, it also
needs to consider the impact of interest rates on growth and
employment. The Reserve Bank has kept its benchmark rate
unchanged this year, after lowering it three times in 2010, even
as inflation climbed to a 15-month high of 5 percent in July.  Standard Bank Group Ltd., Africa’s biggest lender,
yesterday revised its  interest-rate  outlook, saying it expected
the first increase in the third quarter of 2012. The
Johannesburg-based lender had previously estimated a rate
increase in the first quarter, analysts led by  Michael Keenan 
wrote in an e-mailed report.  “The Reserve Bank will be able to live with a slightly
higher inflation rate and will only want to pull the interest
rate hiking trigger once growth is more established across the
board,” Keenan said in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in Cape Town Nef at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  