-- 
South America Grain Output Threatened by La Nina, Oil World Says

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-08-16T13:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/south-america-grain-output-threatened-by-la-nina-oil-world-says.html
South American grain and oilseed
production may be in jeopardy from the formation of a La Nina
weather pattern, which might curb rainfall in parts of Brazil
and  Argentina , Oil World said.  Dry weather since April in central Brazil may prevent
seedlings from taking root when sowing starts in Mato Grosso,
Mato Grosso do Sul and Goias states, the Hamburg-based
researcher said in a report today. The weather pattern may bring
rain to the area in December, too late for crops, it said.  “At the moment, sea-surface temperatures are near normal
across the equatorial  Pacific Ocean , but there are indications
that anomalies are developing, creating La Nina conditions and
probably reducing rainfall in some important oilseed- and grain-
growing areas of  South America ,” Oil World said.  Argentina’s wheat crop is the biggest in  Latin America . The
country is the world’s second-largest corn exporter and  Brazil 
ranks second globally among soybean shippers, both after the
U.S. Corn has gained 14 percent this year in Chicago trading,
the second-best performance among grains after rice, and
soybeans have fallen 4.3 percent.  Rising Chinese demand for soybeans and corn has bolstered
the crops’ prices. The  U.S. Department of Agriculture  last week
lowered its estimates for world corn stockpiles and soybean
inventories. That put more pressure on Brazil and Argentina to
compensate for lost U.S. production, Oil World said.  China  is
the world’s top soybean importer.  Global Share  “South America has grown in importance as an exporter of
soybeans, soy oil and meal, satisfying a growing share of world
import requirements because U.S. export supplies have been
insufficient,” the researcher said.  Soybean production in five South American countries that
reached a record 136.4 million metric tons in early 2011 may
fall more than expected next year because of adverse weather and
competition from corn and wheat, according to the report.  Brazilian soybean stockpiles at the end of August will come
to 26 million tons, up 39 percent from the prior year, Oil World
said. In the next marketing year, dry weather and a smaller
planted area as growers seed more grains will hurt oilseed
inventories in the country, according to the report.  “Although larger-than-expected soybean stocks will be
available worldwide at the end of August 2011, the prospects for
a decline in world soybean production in 2011-2012 will tighten
supplies, raising prices of soybeans, oil and meal well above
the levels expected up to now,” Oil World said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in  London  at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter@bloomberg.net . 