-- 
Spain’s Economic Growth Slows in Second Quarter Amid Austerity Measures

-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   a n d   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-08-16T07:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/spain-s-economic-growth-slows-in-second-quarter-amid-austerity-measures.html
Spain ’s economic growth slowed in
the second quarter as austerity measures to tackle the sovereign
debt crisis undermined the recovery from a three-year slump.  Gross domestic product grew 0.2 percent, less than the 0.3
percent pace in the first three months of the year. The economy
expanded 0.7 percent from a year earlier, the National
Statistics Institute said in Madrid today. The quarterly figure
matched the estimate given by the Bank of Spain on Aug. 5, and
the average forecast of four economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Home to almost a third of the euro region’s unemployed,
Spain is relying on exports to offset declines in consumer and
public spending. Economic growth in  Germany ,  Europe ’s largest
economy, slowed to 0.1 percent in the second quarter, data
showed today, and  France ’s economy stagnated in the three months
through June.  “The recovery is very slow,” said Estefania Ponte, the
Madrid-based head of research at Cortal Consors. “What would
really help growth would be  job creation  to boost household
spending. This is unlikely after the rise in Spain’s borrowing
costs in August has made it even more difficult for companies to
finance themselves.”  The  European Central Bank  started buying Spanish bonds on
Aug. 8 to contain surging borrowing costs as investors’ doubts
over the nation’s ability to tackle its deficit swelled the gap
between Spanish and German yields to a record of 418 basis
points. That spread was 270 basis points today.  Foreign Sales  Exports from January to May, the latest data available,
rose 20.2 percent from the same period a year earlier, according
to the Industry Ministry. Foreign sales haven’t translated into
more jobs at home, and the jobless rate stayed above 20 percent
in the three months through June for the third quarter in a row.  Spain won the European Union’s consent on Aug. 11 to
restrict Romanians’ ability to seek jobs in the country until
the end of next year. Exceptional curbs are justified by the
“dramatic” problems facing the Spanish economy, the European
Commission said.  Norsk Hydro ASA, Europe’s third-largest aluminum maker, is
cutting jobs and capacity at its operations in Spain and
 Portugal  because of lower demand from builders, Chief Executive
Officer Svein Richard Brandtzaeg said on July 26. Spanish
industrial production dropped 2 percent from a year earlier in
June after stalling in May, adding to evidence the economy is
struggling to exit the worst recession in six decades.  Banco Espanol de Credito SA (BTO) , a retail-banking unit of
Spain’s biggest bank Banco Santander SA, reported a 31 percent
drop in second-quarter profit on July 12, as lending revenue
fell, deposits declined and costs for covering bad loans rose.  Property Market  “The international context is very complicated and the
Spanish construction sector is undergoing a clean up,” Ponte
said. Spanish home sales declined for the fourth month in June,
falling by 22.9 percent from a year earlier. Transactions
resumed their decline this year, after the government ended a
tax break implemented in 2010 to help reduce the growing stock
of unsold homes since the end of the housing boom in 2008.  Adding to pressure on Spanish consumers, the ECB raised its
benchmark  interest rate  in July for the second time in three
years and investors expect another increase this year. More than
90 percent of Spanish mortgages have variable rates, making
homeowners vulnerable to changes in benchmark borrowing costs.  Downgrade Warning  The Bank of Spain said on Aug. 5 that tensions on sovereign
debt markets could extend to the real economy as credit dries up
on financial markets. A week earlier, the  International Monetary
Fund  said many imbalances and structural weaknesses remain to be
fully addressed, calling for more reforms. The same day, Moody’s
Investors Service said it might downgrade Spain’s credit rating,
citing concern over its ability to meet budget targets.  Spanish Socialist Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero has called Cabinet meetings for Aug. 19 and Aug. 26 to
take measures to ensure the country meets its deficit goals this
year and boosts growth.  Unemployment and austerity measures have eroded support for
the government, which has called early elections on Nov. 20. The
opposition  People’s Party  would win the general election with
47.6 percent of the vote, compared with the Socialists’ 35
percent, if the ballot were held now, newspaper ABC reported on
Aug. 7, citing a poll.  The statistics institute will publish a full breakdown of
second-quarter GDP on August 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in  Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net 
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  