-- 
St Pancras Pits Bratwurst Against Brie in German-Friendly Revamp

-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-08-17T16:08:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/st-pancras-pits-bratwurst-against-brie-in-german-friendly-revamp.html
German bratwurst and Hugo Boss suits
are set to vie with croissants, camembert and other French
staples in shops at London’s Channel Tunnel terminus as the
station prepares for direct trains from Cologne and  Frankfurt .  Eurostar Group Ltd.  has been operating to Paris and French-
speaking Brussels for 16 years, giving St Pancras International
a distinctly Gallic air. That will change in 2013 when Deutsche
Bahn AG adds the new routes, while  Eurostar  itself aims to reach
 Germany  a year later and may also serve Amsterdam and Geneva.  St Pancras is already reviewing its retail lineup ahead of
the influx as it seeks to maximize returns for HS1 Ltd., which
paid 2.1 billion pounds ($3.5 billion) for a 30-year concession
including the station last November. Wendy Spinks, the company’s
head of revenue development, said the aim is to adapt shops to
the evolving passenger base while persuading people to part with
more cash by creating an airport-like shopping experience.  “Bringing in Deutsche Bahn adds to the international mix,”
Spinks said in an interview at the Searcys Champagne Bar which
overlooks the station’s continental platforms. “We really try
to cater to all our audience, as well as to create an
environment where people are tempted to make impulse purchases.”  French Flavor  St Pancras , which attracted 40 million travelers and
shoppers last year, features 90,000 square feet of retail space
housing brands ranging from shirt-maker Thomas Pink -- a unit of
Paris-based  Christian Dior SA (CDI)  -- and shoe store LK Bennett Ltd.
to the coffee kiosks and newsstands more typical of stations.  Continental-style outlets include  Sourced Market , which
features a charcuterie and fromagerie -- meat and cheese
counters -- and branches of Belgian chocolatier Neuhaus and  Le
Pain Quotidien , a boulangerie and patisserie that sells baked
foods including croissants, baguettes, tartines and pains au
chocolat, as well as hot meals and predominantly French wines.  Spinks says studies show 84 percent of people using the
station, including travelers to the English Midlands, belong to
high-income demographic groups. Shops are let for three to 16
years and generate 110 million pounds in annual revenue. Vendors
pay a percentage of takings, with a guaranteed minimum fee.  Retailer Talks  Discussions with German retailers are “ongoing,” said Ben Ruse, an HS1 spokesman, while declining to specify which
companies are involved until contracts are signed.  Deutsche Bahn  will probably begin services through the
Channel Tunnel late in 2013, spokesman Andreas Fuhrmann said
today. An Anglo-French safety committee has given the go-ahead
for the use of “distributed traction” in which engines are
located below passenger cars, but has yet to approve shorter
trains requiring modified evacuation procedures, he said.  The Berlin-based company plans to run two 200-meter (650-
feet) train sets, one from Amsterdam, the other from Frankfurt,
which would be coupled in Brussels before running through the
tunnel. The trip from Frankfurt will take about five hours.  Planet Retail analyst  David Gray  said the relative health
of the German economy will provide a boost for St Pancras, with
gross domestic product up 2.7 percent in the 12 months through
June versus 1.6 percent in  France  and 0.7 percent in the U.K.,
though the new shoppers may not be the most free-spending.  “German consumers recognize a good deal, so from a grocery
point of view they’re not the best customers,” London-based Gray
said. “But the German economy is growing slightly more strongly
than the U.K. so it’s good news having that new market.”  Wurst Option  French visitors preparing to board  Eurostar trains  at St
Pancras yesterday expressed little enthusiasm for German fare.  The station’s shops are attractive -- “sympa” -- said
Ludivine Decaux, a Paris student who bought lunch at  Marks &
Spencer Group Plc. (MKS)  Belgian Franz Vanheygen, a retired grain
trader, said he eats at St Pancras when visiting with his
grandson. Asked whether his appetite might extend to bratwurst,
he laughed and said: “I’m not going to comment on that.”  Spinks, who headed  London Heathrow airport ’s retail team
before joining HS1, aims to encourage travelers to spend more
time in shops by applying concepts from  Europe ’s busiest hub,
which generated 393 million pounds in retail revenue last year.  German trains should pull in people who previously made the
trip to London by plane and who are already amenable to airport-
style shopping, she said. To encourage that trend St Pancras has
begun displaying information on screens  inside shops  rather than
on a single large board outside so that passengers can spend
longer on purchases without worrying about their departure.  Mood Change  “We like to push the boundaries,” Spinks said. “It’s about
understanding people’s behavior and what they do when they’re
travelling. If they don’t have information on when their train
departs it will change their mood and whether they shop or not.”  Outlets at travel hubs, even ordinary railway stations, are
generally “very high margin” and outperform those elsewhere,
Planet Retail’s Gray said, though convenience items do better
than bigger-ticket purchases such as clothing and electronics.  “These are prime locations where retailers can charge a
lot more and the customer is very attentive,” he said. “You
get a lot of volume because you get a lot of passing trade.”  WH Smith Plc (SMWH) , a U.K. magazine retailer and stationer with
more than 1,000 stores, gets better margins from outlets serving
travelers, while  Tesco Plc , Britain’s top retailer, opened a
branch at Glasgow airport last year, Gray said. Retail sales at
St Pancras are generally “trending ahead” of city-center
shops, HS1’s Ruse said in an e-mail.  BNP, Guardian  Owned by Canadian funds Borealis Infrastructure Management
Inc. and  Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan  and named after the High
Speed 1 line to the tunnel, which is part of the concession, HS1
also aims to lure people to St Pancras who live or work nearby.  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA, France’s largest bank, agreed in December
to buy an office development in the area, while Saint Martins
art college is relocating there in October. Guardian Media Group
Plc moved 1,700 people to the nearby  Kings Place  block in 2008.  “The area is nice enough to sit around and it’s a good
place for people who work locally,” said Isabel Cavill of Planet
Retail. “I don’t think it’s a matter of catering for French or
German tastes but positioning as the gateway to Europe.”  Some people, though, may take more convincing. Charles
Detain, from Mitry-Mory, 24 kilometers (15 miles) northeast of
Paris, said he admires the station’s Victorian architecture but
that its food offerings are inauthentic and poor value.  “I know the food of France and for me this is for the
tourists,” he said. “I’d prefer a McDonald’s. It costs less.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Rothwell in  London  at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  