-- 
Europe’s Stalling Economy May Keep ECB Interest Rate on Hold

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-08-17T10:22:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/stalling-eu-economy-may-keep-ecb-rates-on-hold.html
Europe ’s unexpectedly sharp economic
slowdown has increased the risk of another recession and may
prevent the  European Central Bank  from raising interest rates
again this year.  The 17-nation euro-area economy may struggle to gather
momentum after growing just 0.2 percent in the second quarter,
its worst performance since emerging from the last recession in
2009, said economists including Marco Valli at UniCredit Global
Research and  Stewart Robertson  at Aviva Investors.  France ’s
economy stagnated and in Germany, the region’s economic engine,
expansion almost stalled.  “I’m comfortable believing that this is a temporary
slowdown, but the focus will remain on recession risks for the
next few months,” said Valli, chief euro-region economist at
UniCredit in Milan. “Rate hikes are off the table for now.”  Europe’s weakness may persist for the remainder of the year
as governments from Ireland to Italy cut spending to rein in
ballooning budget deficits and the global economy cools. The
ECB, which has raised its benchmark rate twice this year to 1.5
percent to tackle inflation, was last week forced to start
buying Italian and Spanish bonds to stop the region’s sovereign-
debt crisis from spreading.  Merkel, Sarkozy  The euro declined and stocks fell after yesterday’s gross
domestic product data, which added to evidence of a global
economic slowdown. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  later proposed to establish an euro-
area economic council and to seek a tax on financial
transactions as they try to stem the region’s turmoil.  Europe’s debt crisis, having prompted bailouts of
peripheral nations  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal , is now
affecting confidence in the region’s core economies. German GDP
rose 0.1 percent in the second quarter; the median forecast of
economists was for 0.5 percent growth.  “The weak GDP print piles pressure on euro-zone
authorities to come up with a structural solution to the debt
crisis,” said Martin van Vliet, senior euro-area economist at
ING Bank in Amsterdam, who hasn’t discounted the possibility of
a recession. “Much depends on whether further contagion from
the financial-market turbulence to consumer and business
confidence will be avoided.”  Euro Bonds  Merkel and Sarkozy, after meeting in Paris yesterday, said
jointly issued European bonds aren’t an immediate solution to
the crisis. So-called euro bonds may be “imaginable one day,”
Sarkozy said.  A faltering global recovery is compounding Europe’s
problems. Euro-area exports dropped a seasonally adjusted 4.7
percent in June from the previous month, the European Union’s
statistics office in Luxembourg said yesterday.  Growth in the euro-area manufacturing industry, as measured
by the Markit purchasing managers’ index, last month slowed to
the weakest pace in two years. Markit chief economist  Chris Williamson  said next week’s PMI for August “will give an
important insight into whether the soft-patch could turn into
contraction.” Weaker data “could prompt a hasty reversal”
from the ECB on  interest rates , he said.  The ECB, which is due to update its economic forecasts next
month, “will probably say growth risks have moved to the
downside,” said UniCredit’s Valli. “I don’t think that we’ll
see a rate cut, even though that’s something the markets are
going to speculate about.”  Slowing Inflation  The euro area’s inflation rate fell to 2.5 percent in July
from 2.7 percent in June, the European Union’s statistics office
in Luxembourg said today. The ECB aims to keep inflation just
below 2 percent.  Robertson, London-based chief European economist at Aviva
Investors, which manages $371 billion in assets, said while the
euro area is likely to avoid recession, sluggish growth will
keep ECB rates on hold well into 2012.  “I had penciled in a rate increase from the ECB every
quarter,” he said. “It now looks less likely that they’ll do
that.”  Economic uncertainty is “particularly high,” ECB
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said on Aug. 4, while maintaining
that risks to the outlook are “broadly balanced.”  U.S. industrial production climbed in July by the most this
year, figures from the  Federal Reserve  showed yesterday, as
carmakers started to shake off the effects of the disaster in
 Japan  and higher temperatures boosted utility use.  Spring Weather  In  Germany , mild spring weather led to construction work
being brought forward, which boosted first-quarter GDP figures
at the expense of the second quarter, according to Joerg Kraemer, chief economist at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt.
“Without this effect, second-quarter GDP would have grown by
0.4 percent rather than 0.1 percent,” Kraemer said.  German firms including Siemens AG, which reported record
order backlogs in recent months, may be able to maintain
production even as global growth slows.  “The focus is now on what the third quarter looks like,
and the big question is whether growth stabilizes at current
levels or drops further,” said Jens Sondergaard, senior
European economist at Nomura International PLC in  London , who
expects the Frankfurt-based ECB to enter wait-and-see mode.
“While this is a sharp slowdown, talk of an ECB rate cut is
premature.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christian Vits in  Frankfurt  at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  