-- 
Statoil Says Two North Sea Finds Are Probably Part of ‘Giant’ Discovery

-- B y   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t   a n d   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 
2011-08-16T11:52:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/statoil-says-north-sea-finds-linked-in-giant-oil-discovery.html
Statoil ASA (STL)  said two North Sea finds
are probably part of a single field that could be the country’s
largest oil discovery since the 1980s, helping to prolong the
nation’s output that has declined for 10 consecutive years.  The Aldous and Avaldsnes oil discoveries located on the
Utsira High may hold 500 million to 1.2 billion barrels of
recoverable oil, the Stavanger-based company said in an e-mailed
statement today.  “It’s probably the largest offshore oil discovery anywhere
in the world this year,” Tim Dodson, Statoil’s executive vice
president for exploration, said in an Oslo interview. “ Norway 
has not seen a similar oil discovery since the mid-eighties.”  The find could reverse Norways’s dwindling output due to
maturing fields in the  North Sea  and smaller new discoveries.
Production peaked in 2000 and is forecast to drop 6 percent this
year to about 1.7 million barrels a day, according to the
 Norwegian Petroleum Directorate . Statoil, which operates 80
percent of Norway’s oil and gas production, missed its 2010
output target and may produce less this year than last.  “To discover an elephant in Norway is in our view
remarkable, especially given that it’s in the North Sea,” said
Trond Omdal, an Arctic Securities ASA analyst. “Production
could be 250,000 to 300,000 barrels a day, and given that
Norway’s production last year was 2.1 million and this year has
been below 2 million, that shows the impact of it.”  Shares Rise  Statoil rose as much as 1.2 percent to 124.1 kroner and was
little changed at 123.3 kroner as of 1:11 p.m. in Oslo. Partner
 Det Norske Oljeselskap ASA (DETNOR)  soared as much as 30 percent to 41.3
kroner, the highest in intraday trading since October 2008.
Lundin, also a partner, climbed as much as 9 percent in
 Stockholm  to 87 kronor.  Statoil on Aug. 8 said its 16/2-8 well made a “high-
impact” oil find at the Aldous Major South prospect, estimated
at 200 million to 400 million barrels of oil equivalent, with
“additional upside” potential both north and south of the
find. The license is located west of  Lundin Petroleum AB (LUPE) ’s
Avaldsnes find.  The well also established common oil and water contact
between the Aldous and Avaldsnes structures, Statoil said today.
Between 200 million and 400 million barrels of resources have
been discovered at the Aldous Major South Well, with strong
indications from well data of another 200 to 400 million barrels
of recoverable oil equivalent in the same structure. A resource
base of 100 million to 400 million barrels is estimated in the
Avaldsnes structure.  ‘One-in-Two Chance’  Statoil will start drilling next week with the Transocean
Leader rig at the Aldous Major North prospect, which the company
estimates may hold as much as 300 million barrels of oil
equivalent, Dodson said. The company estimates it has a “one-
in-two chance” of striking oil there, Dodson said.  “We think it’s probably the same oil-water contact there,
but we won’t know for sure until we’ve drilled the well,”
Dodson said in the interview.  The Aldous-Avaldsnes discovery will add at least 4 to 5
kroner to the value of each Statoil share, Magnus Smistad, an
analyst Fondsfinans ASA, said by telephone today. “We’re
talking unrisked valuation of probably something around $2.7
billion to $2.8 billion,” he said, based on capital expenditure
of $5 billion. The discovery “is a huge one.”  High Recovery Rate  Statoil expects to start assessing development solutions
for the field toward the end of the year, Dodson said. A stand-
alone installation is most likely, he said. Production will
probably start within six to eight years, he said.  The company estimates the field to have a rate of recovery
of at least 50 percent, Dodson said. The country’s average
recovery rate is 46 percent, according to the Ministry of
Petroleum and Energy.  This is Statoil’s third so-called high-impact find, defined
as a discovery that holds more than 250 million barrels of oil
equivalent, this year.  The company expects its production to grow by about 3
percent a year during the next decade to exceed 2.5 million
barrels a day in 2020, it said in June. By that date, the state-
controlled producer expects to get 44 percent of oil and gas
output from outside Norway. The company won’t alter its
production forecasts based on today’s announcement.  Statoil’s partners in license 265 include Petoro AS with 30
percent, Det Norske with 20 percent and Lundin with 10 percent.
Avaldsnes is located in license 501 and is operated by Lundin,
which holds a 40 percent stake, while Statoil has 40 percent and
Maersk Oil has 20 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marianne Stigset in Oslo at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  