-- 
Sugar to Climb 6% as Brazilian Crop Slides Amid Chinese, Indonesian Demand

-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 
2011-08-16T09:13:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/sugar-to-climb-5-5-as-brazilian-crop-slides-amid-china-indonesia-demand.html
Sugar may advance 6 percent by
December as China, the second-biggest user, and  Indonesia 
replenish stockpiles and the crop declines in Brazil.  Futures in  New York  could gain to 29 cents a pound,
according to the median in a Bloomberg News survey of eight
exporters, importers and traders at a conference in Cebu, the
 Philippines . October-delivery traded at 27.36 cents today.  More expensive sugar may bolster near-record global food
costs and make it harder for central bankers and policy makers
to curb inflation. Food prices are close to their peak in 2008,
with corn and sugar helping fuel a 33 percent gain in the past
year, according to the  World Bank . That may worsen the lives of
the 1.1 billion the bank says live on less than $1 a day.  “The stocks-to-use is quite tight, which is keeping prices
high,” said Adam Tomlinson, Rabobank International’s Food &
Agribusiness Research and Advisory director, in an interview.
“That’s why you got countries like  China  managing their
reserves, adding 1 million tons to their imports.”  A surplus of about 4 million metric tons in the year
starting October will probably not be enough to allow importers
like China and Indonesia to replenish their inventories without
a considerable increase in prices, said  Peter Baron , executive
director of the  International Sugar Organization .  The market may have a “technical blip” to 30 cents, he
said in an interview Aug. 14 and predicted prices will stay high.
Futures averaged 12.81 cents in the past 10 years.  China, Brazil  China could purchase 2.5 million tons, exceeding its usual
import quota of 1.9 million tons, Baron said. Indonesia may buy
2.84 million tons, up from 2.48 million tons the previous year,
said Faruk Bakrie, chairman of the Indonesian Sugar Association.  The Asian region will have a 6 million ton shortage in the
season starting in October even as the global market swings to
surplus, said Rabobank’s Tomlinson.  The harvest in  Brazil ’s Center-South, the world’s largest
producing region, will fall short of previous estimates on
lower-than-expected yields, the Unica industry association said.
Output will be 31.6 million tons, down from a July 13 estimate
of 32.4 million tons, Sao Paulo-based Unica said Aug. 11.  Sugar may exceed 29 cents if the Center-South crop is
smaller, said Pedro Cortes, president of Energy Brazil. The
yields may be 1.1 million tons below the latest estimate after
drought, excessive rains and frost damaged crops, Cortes said.  Economy, India  Concerns that the global economy is slowing and a decline
in managed-money investments in futures may limit gains, said
Tomlinson. The bank forecast in July that prices may average 26
cents this quarter before slipping to 23 cents in the fourth.  Higher production in  India , the second-largest grower, and
 Thailand  will help make up for losses in Brazil, capping prices
at 29 cents on a sustained basis, said Abinash Verma, director
general of the Indian Sugar Mills Association, in an interview.  India may boost output to 26 million tons in 2011-2012 from
24.2 million tons a year earlier, said Verma.  The country could have a 4 million ton surplus in the
coming season and large quantities may be exported as producers
seek higher returns, Verma said. India has the world’s second-
lowest domestic price, he said.  While the Thai government expects the harvest to slip to
9.50 million tons in the year from November from a record 9.64
million tons this year, the nation will remain a major supplier,
Rangsit Hiangrat, director at the Office of the Cane and Sugar
Board, said in an interview.  -- Editors: James Poole, Thomas Kutty Abraham  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole in Singapore at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  