-- 
Swiss Franc Depreciates as Safety Bid Eases on U.S. Industrial Output Data

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   E d   B a l l a r d
-- 
2011-08-16T16:10:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/swiss-franc-erases-advance-as-safety-bid-eases-after-u-s-industrial-data.html
The Swiss franc declined versus the
euro and dollar as a report showed U.S. industrial production
climbed by the most this year, bolstering optimism for global
growth and lessening demand for the safest assets.  The franc weakened for a fifth day against the 17-member
European currency as policy makers mull measures to curb the
currency’s strength. U.S. industrial output increased 0.9
percent in July after a revised 0.4 percent gain in June that
was more than previously estimated, figures from the  Federal
Reserve  showed today. The Swiss currency had earlier advanced
after growth slowed across Europe last quarter. Swiss stocks
gained.  “The market reacted to the slightly better data out of the
 United States  and the improved risk appetite caused that
dramatic rebound,” said  Jeremy Stretch , executive director of
foreign-exchange strategy at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce
in London. “The industrial numbers helped arrest some of the
fears about global growth, which have been preying on markets in
general over the last two weeks.”  The franc weakened 1.1 percent to 79.31 centimes per dollar
as of 5.08 p.m. in London, after appreciating as much as 0.9
percent. It declined 1.1 percent to 1.14484 per euro, after
earlier climbing 1.5 percent.  Swiss stocks rose, extending the biggest four-day surge
since 2008. The Swiss Market Index gained 0.9 percent in Zurich,
after reversing an earlier 1.5 percent decline.  The currency earlier appreciated against all of 16 major
peers tracked by Bloomberg after German data showed  Europe ’s
biggest economy almost stalled in the second quarter.  German GDP  The Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said German
gross domestic product, adjusted for seasonal effects, rose 0.1
percent from the first quarter. Economists had forecast
expansion of 0.5 percent, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  Growth in the 17-nation euro area slowed to 0.2 percent in
the second quarter, also worse than economists forecast and the
least in two years.  The Swiss central bank may introduce a currency peg with a
lower limit slightly above 1.10 against the euro before
gradually increasing it, SonntagsZeitung reported on Aug. 14,
citing people familiar with the situation. Policy makers are
battling to curb gains that have seen the franc surge 13 percent
this year against a basket of nine developed-market peers,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes.  Swiss National Bank Vice President Thomas Jordan said
policy makers are assessing “a whole range of options,”
according to an interview with Weltwoche published on Aug. 11.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in  London  at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Ballard in London at 
 eballard2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  