-- 
Syria Forces Seal Off Latakia, Storm Suburbs of City of Homs

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y   a n d   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 
2011-08-16T11:15:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/syrian-forces-seal-off-port-city-of-latakia-storm-homs-to-hamper-protests.html
Syria ’s military closed off access
to the Mediterranean port of Latakia by land and sea and stormed
the suburbs of the city of Homs in an effort to prevent further
anti-government protests, activists said.  Latakia, which was overtaken by soldiers backed by
artillery and warships this week, was subjected to a fourth day
of tank fire today as Sunni Muslim areas were targeted and
troops restricted movement in and out of the city, Mahmoud Merhi, head of the Arab Organization for Human Rights, said
today by phone from Damascus, the capital. The government said
any naval action was a “routine exercise” and not an attack.  At least 33 people have been killed by security forces in
Latakia in the past three days, while the crackdown also left 15
protesters dead yesterday in Homs along with one in the eastern
town of Deir al-Zour and another in the northern province of
Idlib, Merhi said. The severing of communication links with
Latakia has made it difficult to learn whether the toll has
risen, he said. Protesters also returned to the streets of
Damascus and Daraa.  More than 2,400 people have been killed since the uprising
against Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s government began in
March, according to Merhi and Ammar Qurabi of the National
Organization for Human Rights in Syria. The  United Nations  put
the toll at about 2,000. The U.S. State Department estimated
that the government has detained more than 30,000 people.
Protests began after demonstrations toppled the leaders of
Tunisia and  Egypt , and destabilized  Libya .  ‘Protecting the Coast’  Syria’s military denied that a naval attack was waged by
its vessels and that they were “carrying out their routine
exercises for protecting the coast and preventing smuggling of
weapons into the country by sea,” the state-run  SANA  agency
reported.  International pressure on the government is increasing,
with U.S. President  Barack Obama ,  Saudi Arabia ’s King Abdullah
and British Prime Minister David Cameron calling on Syria to
stop attacking its people. U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  on Aug. 12 urged nations doing business with Syria to
cut off trade and arms sales.  Canada  is extending sanctions on
Assad’s regime.  The foreign minister of neighboring  Turkey ,  Ahmet Davutoglu , said yesterday that the “time for words will be
over” unless Syria ends military operations against its people.  Refugee Camp  The United Nations agency that helps Palestinian refugees
said a number of Palestinians were killed as the security forces
fired at a refugee camp in Latakia. The  UN Relief and Works
Agency for Palestine Refugees  called upon the authorities to
exercise the “utmost restraint in accordance with international
law,” according to a statement on its  website .  The European Union should freeze the assets of the Syrian
National Oil Co., the Syrian National Gas Co. and the  Central
Bank  of Syria until the government “ends gross human-rights
abuses against its citizens,” the New York-based Human Rights
Watch said today in an e-mailed statement.  “The aim is to harm the government’s ability to fund its
repression and not to hurt the Syrian people who are
courageously demanding their basic rights,” Lotte Leicht, EU
director for the group, said in the statement.  Under Syrian law, the government is the major shareholder
in the oil and gas industry through ownership of the two energy
companies, which have a 50 percent share in every oil and gas
project in the country. Syria, whose production is declining,
produces about 385,000 barrels of crude a day and has the  Middle
East ’s ninth-largest reserves, according to data from BP Plc.  Arab League  The 22-nation Arab League should hold an emergency meeting
about the crackdown and press Syria for unhindered access to the
country for a UN-mandated fact-finding committee and for
independent observers and journalists, HRW said yesterday.  Assad, who succeeded his father, Hafez, as president after
his death in 2000, has blamed the protests on foreign-inspired
plots. More than 500 members of the security forces have died
since the unrest began, the government has said.  Many of Assad’s top officials are from the Alawite branch
of Islam, an offshoot of Shiism, while most of Syria’s
population is  Sunni Muslim .  The U.S. is concerned about the prospect of sectarian
violence in Syria and the chance it will spark more instability,
a U.S. official said last week. The Obama administration may
call on Assad soon to step down, said the official, who asked
not to be identified because the administration was still
discussing the issue.  Report of Mission  Spain sent a secret mission to Syria in July in an attempt
to help end the violence and is prepared to offer asylum to
Assad and his family, the Spanish newspaper  El Pais  reported
yesterday, citing unidentified diplomats. Spain has made no such
offer yet nor has it been asked to do so, the newspaper said.  Rifaat al-Assad, who was exiled by his brother during Hafez al-Assad’s presidency in the 1980s, lived in southern  Spain  and
now resides in  London  with his family.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in  Beirut , Lebanon, at   mderhally@bloomberg.net ;
Vivian Salama in  Abu Dhabi  at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 