-- 
Bove Says U.S. Banks Probably Have Enough Capital: Tom Keene

-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-08-16T18:50:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/u-s-banks-may-avoid-raising-more-capital-rochdale-s-bove-says-tom-keene.html
U.S. banks probably won’t need to
raise more capital even as they struggle to maintain earnings
with low interest rates squeezing lending margins, said  Richard Bove , an analyst at Rochdale Securities.  “Some of them are overcapitalized,” Bove said today in an
interview on Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance” with
Tom Keene. It’s unlikely any of the 20 largest banks will raise
capital, even if some, such as Regions Financial Corp., are “at
the edge” of needing more, he said. Evelyn Mitchell, a
spokeswoman for Birmingham, Alabama-based Regions, said she had
no comment.  Lenders including Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of
America Corp. and  Citigroup Inc. (C) , based in New York, have
plummeted this month as investor concern that the U.S. may
experience a double-dip recession and the European sovereign-
debt crisis sent the  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  of 24 financial companies
down 15 percent this month through yesterday. The  Federal
Reserve  said Aug. 9 for the first time that it would keep its
benchmark interest rate at a record low at least through mid-
2013.  Bove said the Fed’s policy will pare bank earnings when
firms are also facing new regulations that will cut other
revenue. He predicted banks would charge customers more fees for
account maintenance, debit and credit cards and the use of
automated teller machines.  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the biggest U.S. home lender, is best
positioned to adapt to the new fee landscape, Bove said, citing
its pricing structure for services. The San Francisco-based
lender posted record profit in the second quarter and announced
a plan to cut $1.5 billion in quarterly costs by the end of
2012.  Wells Fargo fell 1.84 percent to $24.56 at 2:27 p.m. in  New
York  Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have fallen 19
percent this year through yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  