-- 
U.S. Stocks Fall as Germany, France Propose Transaction Tax

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-08-16T20:28:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/u-s-stock-futures-slide-after-german-economy-almost-stalled-last-quarter.html
U.S. stocks fell, following the
biggest three-day rally since 2009, as German and French leaders
proposed a financial-transaction tax and rejected selling euro
bonds to halt a debt crisis threatening economic growth.  NYSE Euronext and  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) , two of the biggest
exchange operators in Europe, dropped more than 2.7 percent.
 Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) ,  Deere & Co. (DE)  and  3M Co. (MMM)  declined at least 1.4
percent, pacing losses in companies most-tied to the economy, as
Europe’s economic growth trailed estimates and U.S. housing
starts slumped.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  slipped
more than 4.2 percent after billionaire John Paulson’s hedge
fund said it reduced positions in both lenders.  The S&P 500 fell 1 percent to 1,192.76 at 4 p.m. in  New
York . The benchmark gauge advanced 2.2 percent yesterday,
erasing last week’s decline. The Dow Jones Industrial Average
slid 76.97 points, or 0.7 percent, to 11,405.93 today.  “Europe will continue to be an overhang until they come up
with realistic policies,”  Peter Jankovskis , who helps manage
about $2.6 billion at Oakbrook Investments in Lisle, Illinois,
said in a telephone interview. “We’ve already got disappointing
economic numbers out of Europe earlier today. Then, you have a
program which is not really doing anything to address that.”  The  S&P 500  has fallen 13 percent since April 29 on concern
about an economic slowdown and Europe’s widening debt crisis.
Gauges of S&P 500 companies least-tied to economic growth,
including utilities and sellers of consumer staples, fell less
than the index during the slump, losing 1.7 percent and 4.5
percent, respectively. The index had rallied 7.5 percent over
the three days before today amid a decline in jobless claims, an
increase in retail sales and corporate takeovers.  European Recovery Weakens  Earlier losses in stocks today followed a report showing
European economic growth slowed more than forecast in the second
quarter as Germany’s recovery almost ground to a halt amid the
worsening debt crisis. Gross domestic product in the 17-nation
euro area rose 0.2 percent from the first quarter, the worst
performance since the euro region emerged from a recession in
late 2009. Economists had forecast growth of 0.3 percent,
according to the median of estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy said they’ll press for closer euro-area economic
integration with tougher deficit rules and stricter supervision
to stamp out the debt crisis. Merkel and Sarkozy rejected euro
bonds and expanding the 440 billion-euro ($633 billion) rescue
fund. They also proposed a plan to resubmit a financial-
transaction tax, which was rejected in 2010.  ‘Euro Council’  They proposed debt limits be written into national law and
establishing a “euro council” to be headed by European Union
President Herman van Rompuy as part of a planned “economic
government” for Europe. While joint euro-region bond sales may
come eventually, their introduction now would put the most
stable countries of the euro zone in grave danger, Sarkozy said.  NYSE Euronext (NYX) , which operates stock and derivatives
exchanges in Paris, Amsterdam, Brussels, Lisbon and  London , fell
8.4 percent to $26.54. Nasdaq OMX, the operator of Nordic and
Baltic bourses, slumped 2.8 percent to $22.97. The Bloomberg
World Exchanges Index of 25 companies lost 1.6 percent.  Concern about Europe’s crisis overshadowed a report showing
industrial production in the U.S. climbed in July by the most
this year. The 0.9 percent increase in production at factories,
mines and utilities followed a revised 0.4 percent gain that was
more the previously estimated, figures from the Federal Reserve
showed. Economists projected a 0.5 percent rise in July,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  AAA Rating  Fitch Ratings affirmed its AAA credit rating for the U.S.
and said the outlook is stable, citing the nation’s central role
in the global financial system and the flexible, diverse
economy. Fitch had put the rating under review after lawmakers
reached a compromise Aug. 2 on a debt-limit agreement that
prevented a U.S. default. S&P on Aug. 5 cut its U.S. credit
rating to AA+ from AAA, saying lawmakers failed to cut spending
enough to reduce record deficits.  “People are desperate for stability in unpredictable
times,”  Matt McCormick , a money manager at Cincinnati-based
Bahl & Gaynor Inc., which oversees $4 billion, said in a
telephone interview. “The economy and consumers are not as
strong as people thought regardless of how bad they wanted the
market to go up.  Europe  is a mess. There’s no easy answer on how
to get economic growth going again.”  The Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index of companies whose
earnings are most-tied to growth slumped 1.7 percent as 27 of
its 30 stocks retreated. Caterpillar, the largest construction
and mining-equipment maker, decreased 2.2 percent to $89.35.
Deere slid 1.8 percent to $75.16. 3M fell 1.4 percent to $82.13.  Financial Stocks Tumble  Financial stocks had the biggest decline in the S&P 500
within 10 groups, falling 1.9 percent.  Citigroup slid 4.3 percent to $29.94, while Bank of America
sank 4.6 percent to $7.40. Paulson & Co. sold 7.8 million shares
of New York-based Citigroup in the second quarter, leaving the
fund with 33.5 million shares as of June 30, according to a
filing yesterday with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission. The fund sold 63.2 million shares of Charlotte,
North Carolina-based Bank of America, leaving it with 60.4
million, according to the filing.  Financial companies posted the worst performance among 10
industry groups in the S&P 500 in the second quarter, losing 6.3
percent. The  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  of 24 companies fell 19 percent from
June 30 through yesterday, with Citigroup and Bank of America
plummeting 25 percent and 29 percent, respectively.  Gauges of energy and raw-material companies in the S&P 500
slumped at least 1.4 percent as oil and copper fell.  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM)  decreased 1.1 percent to $73.50.  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  dropped 2.4
percent to $12.26.  Wal-Mart Rallies  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  gained 3.9 percent to $51.92. The
world’s largest retailer boosted its profit forecast for the
year after second-quarter earnings rose and the Sam’s Club
wholesale chain helped the company halt a decline in sales at
its U.S. stores.  Home Depot Inc. (HD)  added 5.3 percent to $33.12. The largest
U.S. home improvement retailer raised its full-year profit
forecast after second-quarter profit exceeded analysts’
estimates, spurred by increased traffic and spending by
customers.  “Corporate America is in much better shape than the public
sector,” Alan Gayle, a senior strategist at RidgeWorth Capital
Management in Richmond, Virginia, which oversees about $48
billion, said in a telephone interview. “Still, the soft patch
remains the central focus right now.”  New Lows  U.S. stocks may slip to new lows in the next few weeks,
setting the stage for a rally of more than 20 percent in the S&P
500, said Tom DeMark, the creator of indicators meant to
identify turning points in the price of securities. The index,
which closed at 1,204.49 yesterday, will probably drop below the
11-month low of 1,119.46 set on Aug. 8 before surging above
1,363.61, its peak on April 29, DeMark said during an interview
in London today.  The rebound may last two to three months and also push the
Dow average and  Nasdaq Composite Index (CCMP)  above their 2011 highs,
DeMark said. European banks including  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA “look
like buys” after the shares tumbled this month, he said.  “We’re at the point right now where the next trip down
will probably generate a buy signal,” said DeMark, the founder
of Market Studies LLC. “Everything we follow is indicating the
Dow Jones and the S&P should make a minor new recovery high, and
probably the Nasdaq, too.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  