-- 
U.S. Firms Could Face Constant Auditor Shuffle in Proposal

-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-08-16T18:59:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/u-s-firms-could-face-constant-auditor-shuffle-in-proposal-1-.html
The U.S. regulator for auditors is
formally considering whether to force public companies to
routinely replace the firms that audit their financial
disclosures.  The  Public Company Accounting Oversight Board  voted 5-0
today to open a public comment period on the idea of
establishing  term limits  for auditors. Proponents said such
restrictions may eliminate inappropriate company influence on
long-term auditors.  “The long association of the largest audit firms with
their major audit clients is an issue that must be addressed in
order to fulfill the mission of the PCAOB,” said Chairman James R. Doty before the vote. Mandatory rotation of auditors should
be considered because of “the very size, complexity and
systemic risk found in today’s issuer population,” Doty said.  Of the so-called “Big Four” accounting firms,
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP declined to comment on the board’s
vote.  Deloitte & Touche LLP , Ernst & Young LLP and KPMG LLP
didn’t comment individually, saying their response would come
through the Center for Audit Quality, a Washington-based
industry group.  “As stressed by several board members, a cost-benefit
analysis should be central to the project,” Cynthia Fornelli,
executive director of the association, said in a statement.  Even with a unanimous vote, board members expressed
reservations that could put an eventual adoption of mandatory
rotations into question.  ‘Serious Doubts’  “I have serious doubts that mandatory rotation is a
practical or cost-effective way of strengthening independence,”
board member Daniel L. Goelzer said today. “Firm rotation would
not be cheap for American business.”  The board’s “concept release” would limit the number of
consecutive years that an auditor could work for a client. It
would combat “the pressure auditors face to develop and protect
long-term client relationships to the detriment of investors,”
Doty said. The board said it’s open to alternative ideas that
would foster auditor independence.  The PCAOB, a nonprofit corporation authorized by the
Securities and Exchange Commission as a watchdog for auditors of
U.S.-listed firms, will gather public comments for 120 days,
reviewing them in preparation for another meeting in March.  Martin Baumann, the board’s chief auditor, pointed out that
the PCAOB’s research and analysis staff so far found “no
correlation between audit failures and tenure.”  The  California Public Employees’ Retirement System  and New
York-based pension manager TIAA-CREF are among those that
already use rotations, according to the PCAOB.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at +1-
   jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net  