-- 
U.S. Company Credit-Default Swaps Climb as Homebuilding Slows

-- B y   W i l l   R o b i n s o n
-- 
2011-08-16T17:46:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/u-s-company-credit-default-swaps-climb-after-two-day-decline.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk rose after France and Germany’s leaders said they would
back a financial transaction tax and as fewer homebuilding
projects got started in the U.S.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, climbed 3.5 basis points to a
mid-price of 112.9 basis points as of 1:34 p.m. in New York.
Perceived credit risk worsened for real estate companies
Hovnanian Enterprises Inc. and Simon Property Group Inc.  The cost to protect corporate debt from losses climbed
after French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  said they would support a financial transaction
tax for the region. Earlier traders pushed the index higher as
European and U.S. economic data worsened the outlook for global
growth in the second half of the year.  “The economy is going to be the focus going forward and
the data that’s coming out is mixed at best and in some areas
it’s very weak,” said Rich Gordon, a fixed-income market
strategist at  Wells Fargo & Co . “There’s just no upward push
from housing in this economic cycle,” he said.  U.S. housing starts in July fell 1.5 percent to a 604,000
annual rate, Commerce Department figures showed. Second-quarter
gross domestic product in the 17-nation euro area rose by less
than economists estimated, the European Union said.  The gauge, which typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves, climbed 12.3 basis points
last week on concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis was deepening and
the U.S. economic recovery was faltering. The index trimmed
gains the past two trading days, dropping 5.8 basis points
yesterday in the biggest decline since November.  Hovnanian CDS  Credit-default swaps on Hovnanian rose 349.8 basis points
to 4933.6 basis points, according to data provider CMA. The cost
to protect the debt of the  Red Bank , New Jersey-based
homebuilder climbed after builders began work on fewer homes in
July.  Contracts on Indianapolis-based real estate investor Simon
Property Group increased 7.8 basis points to 113.1 basis points,
CMA data show. CMA is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meets its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt.
A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting
$10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Will Robinson in  New York  at 
 wrobinson11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  