-- 
U.S. to Invest Up to $510 Million in Biofuels for Planes, Ships

-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 
2011-08-16T21:31:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/u-s-to-invest-up-to-510-million-in-biofuels-for-planes-ships.html
The U.S. departments of Energy and
Agriculture and the U.S. Navy will invest as much as $510
million over three years to spur the development of biofuels for
commercial and military transportation.  The three agencies will fund the construction or retrofit
of U.S. plants to produce fuels that will be compatible with
existing infrastructure, they said today in a statement.  The program is expected to accelerate the efforts of
companies trying to create a commercially viable replacement for
fossil fuels. The collaboration means the Agriculture Department
can provide help in evaluating source crops while the Navy
offers a large potential market.  “What we’re doing is providing resources for the
construction of these commercial-sized operations, assistance
with feedstock, and then also a ready, willing and able customer
ready to purchase the product,” Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack said during a conference call.  Companies are expected to match the  government investment .
Funding will be doled out through competitive bids and will be
split equally between the three agencies.  Publicly traded biofuel companies with well-defined
commercialization plans may qualify for some of the government
investment, Stacey Hudson, an analyst at Raymond James &
Associates, said today in an e-mail.  ‘Attractive Partners’  “The visibility provided by these companies, as well as
their relatively strong cash positions following recent IPOs,
may make them attractive partners,” Hudson said. “The ability
to contribute private money seems like it will be a key factor
in the competitive allocation.”  Amyris Inc. (AMRS) , Gevo Inc., Solazyme Inc. and Kior Inc. are all
developing biofuels and have completed initial public offerings
in the last year.  Solazyme also supplied algae-based jet fuel and marine
diesel to the Navy for testing. “Companies that have already
been in talks with the military may have an advantage,” Hudson
said.  Energy Secretary Steven Chu singled out Gevo as a potential
candidate. The program “will help companies like Gevo to really
begin to scale up and build a pilot plant that could lead to
commercialization of large-scale plants,” he said during the
conference call.  The Navy  set  in January 2010 a goal of using alternative
fuels for half of its total needs by 2020. That equals about 8
million barrels of biofuel a year, Navy Secretary Raymond Mabus
said on the conference call.  The Navy already has authority to invest in renewable
fuels, Mabus said. The  Defense Production Act , a 1950 law,
allows the government to help nascent industries that are vital
to national security “get established and get off the ground,”
She said. “The Navy can also be the market. We have a big need
for biofuels,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  