-- 
U.S. Gained From Ending Gold Standard in 1971: Chart of the Day

-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-08-16T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/u-s-gained-from-ending-gold-standard-in-1971-chart-of-the-day.html
The U.S. “benefited immeasurably”
from dropping the gold standard four decades ago because the
dollar became the world’s reserve currency, allowing borrowing
costs to fall,  Societe Generale  SA said.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows how the Dollar Index, a measure
against six counterparts, declined as bullion advanced since
President  Richard Nixon  abandoned the gold standard in 1971. The
index is trading about 4.6 percent above the record low reached
in 2008, while gold hit an all-time high on Aug. 11 this year.
It would have to rise another 30 percent to match the peak of
$850 an ounce reached in 1980 on an inflation-adjusted basis.  “The dollar has fallen sharply since the end of the gold
standard, its value eroded by a tendency of U.S. authorities to
prefer a softer currency to making the economy live within its
means,” said Kit Juckes, head of foreign-exchange research at
Societe Generale in  London . “With no realistic alternative to
the dollar as a reserve currency, and too little gold in the
world to act as a viable basis for a return to the gold
standard, we are likely to muddle through for a while yet.”  While the gold standard may no longer exist, nations and
international organizations still have 30,700 metric tons of
bullion reserves, valued at about $1.75 trillion, according to
the London-based World Gold Council. Central banks are adding to
their holdings for the first time in a generation as gold enters
its 11th consecutive year of gains, the longest winning streak
since at least 1920,  International Monetary Fund  data show.  Record Low Yields  Treasuries rose last week after  Standard & Poor’s  cut the
U.S. credit rating from AAA,  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis
deepened and stock markets gyrated. The rally drove two- and 10-
year yields to all-time lows as the  Federal Reserve  promised to
keep rates at record lows through mid-2013 to revive growth. The
dollar represents 60.7 percent of the world’s currency reserves,
according to the International Monetary Fund in  Washington .  “The next couple of years will tell us if we are all
losers,” said Juckes. “Those who hanker for a return to gold
like the monetary and fiscal discipline it imposed. If those of
us who have been living beyond our means for half a lifetime get
our come-uppance now, they’ll shout ‘I told you so’.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Jenkins in London at 
 Kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  