-- 
UBP to Purchase ABN Amro’s Swiss Private-Banking Unit

-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 
2011-08-16T11:43:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/ubp-to-purchase-abn-amro-s-swiss-private-banking-unit-correct-.html
(Corrects assets under management in final paragraph.)  Union Bancaire Privée, the Geneva-
based wealth manager that reorganized after clients lost money
with  Bernard Madoff , agreed to buy ABN Amro Bank NV’s Swiss
private-banking business for an undisclosed sum.  The ABN Amro unit had 11 billion euros ($15.8 billion) in
client assets under management and 350 staff in  Switzerland  at
the end of the first quarter, the Amsterdam-based bank said in a
statement today.  It’s “a solid and high-quality private bank,” Guy de Picciotto, chief executive officer of UBP, said in a  statement .
“We are very pleased with this transaction, which adds scale to
our domestic platform.”  Assets at UBP, once the world’s largest investor in  hedge
funds , have declined by 55 percent since the end of 2007 as
client losses of about $700 million through investments tied to
Madoff magnified withdrawals in the wake of the credit crisis.
UBP had 60.7 billion Swiss francs ($77.7 billion) in assets
under management at the end of June.  ABN Amro , which has the largest private bank in the
Netherlands, aims to strengthen its position in the euro region
and expand in  Asia , and the Swiss unit doesn’t fit with that
strategy, said spokeswoman Brigitte Seegers by phone. The Dutch
lender also has private-banking operations in France, Germany
and  Belgium .  “There are more than 300 players active on the Swiss
market, of which we are a small to medium-size one,” Seegers
said. “We can create more value in markets where we have a
larger position.”  ABN Amro’s private banking units had 164.2 billion euros in
assets under management at the end of 2010, according to the
company’s annual report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Zurich at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly in Paris at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  