-- 
Tudou Said to Raise $174 Million After Pricing U.S. IPO at Middle of Range

-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 
2011-08-16T23:45:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/tudou-said-to-raise-174-million-after-u-s-ipo-priced-in-middle-of-range.html
Tudou Holdings Ltd., China’s second-
biggest video website, raised $174 million yesterday in its U.S.
initial public offering, said a person with knowledge of the
matter.  The Shanghai-based company sold 6 million American
depositary receipts at $29 apiece, said the person, who declined
to be identified because the details aren’t public. Tudou had
offered the ADRs for $28 to $30 each, according to a regulatory
filing. They will start trading today on the Nasdaq Stock Market
under the symbol TUDO.  Tudou priced its shares at a 58 percent discount to larger
rival  Youku.com Inc. (YOKU)  after a rout in equities earlier this month
decreased investors’ demand for new stock. The company also
completed its IPO after a report last week that Baidu Inc.,
China’s biggest Internet search site, had approached the video
provider about a takeover.  The IPO price values Tudou at $822 million, or about one-
third the size of Youku.com, which has a market value of $2.7
billion.  The midpoint of the offering range valued Tudou at about 16
times sales in the 12 months through March 31. At the close of
trading yesterday on the  New York  Stock Exchange, Youku.com
traded at 37 times sales for the same period.  Tudou’s IPO proceeds will be used for technology upgrades,
bandwidth expansion and rights to videos as it vies for visitors
in the world’s biggest online market. The site offers movies, TV
series and content it produces itself, as well as user-generated
videos such as are found on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube.  Falling Market Share  The company accounted for 14 percent of online-video
advertising revenue in China at the end of the second quarter,
compared with 17 percent at the end of 2010, while Youku gained
two percentage points to 23 percent and  Sohu.com Inc. (SOHU) ’s video
site jumped to 13 percent from 7.9 percent, according to data
from Beijing-based researcher Analysys International.  Another 28 percent of the market is split among five
competitors including Baidu’s Qiyi.com; a site operated by
Xunlei Ltd., which is part-owned by Google; and Nasdaq-listed
Ku6 Media Co., the data show.  China had 485 million  Internet users  at the end of June,
according to  data  from the government-sponsored China Internet
Network Information Center. There were about 215 million
Internet users in the U.S. as of July, according to Reston,
Virginia-based researcher  ComScore Inc. (SCOR)   Tudou completed its offering after 13 U.S. IPOs were
withdrawn or postponed from Aug. 7 to Aug. 12, the most in a
week since 2000, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Each
of Tudou’s ADRs will represent four Class B ordinary shares.
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  led the offering.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 