-- 
Forint Slips First Day in Four to Franc on Growth; Stocks Drop

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-08-16T12:38:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/hungarian-shares-snap-3-days-of-gains-as-forint-drops-on-growth.html
Hungary ’s forint weakened versus the
Swiss franc for the first day in four, increasing banks’ risk of
client defaults on foreign-currency mortgages, after the
country’s economic growth stalled in the second quarter.  Hungary’s currency depreciated 2.2 percent to 242.6 per
Swiss franc at 2:30 p.m. in Budapest, extending losses in the
third quarter to 10 percent. The forint fell 0.5 percent to
270.5 per euro, the biggest decline in almost a week. The
benchmark BUX index of shares snapped three days of gains to
retreat 2.9 percent to 18,288, led by OTP Bank Nyrt.  Gross domestic product in Hungary, the first European Union
country to receive a bailout led by the  International Monetary
Fund  in 2008, was unchanged from the first quarter, the
 statistics office  said in a preliminary report today. Growth was
forecast at 0.4 percent, based on the median of nine estimates
in a Bloomberg survey.  “The disappointing growth in Hungary is a negative factor
for the forint,”  Piotr Kalisz , an economist at Citigroup Inc.
in Warsaw, wrote in a research note. Slower growth will make it
more difficult for Hungary to reduce its debt burden, the
biggest relative to the size of the economy in the east of the
European Union, Kalisz said.  In  Germany , Hungary’s biggest export market, gross domestic
product, adjusted for seasonal effects, rose 0.1 percent from
the first quarter, when it jumped a revised 1.3 percent, the
 Federal Statistics Office  in Wiesbaden said today. Economists
had forecast growth of 0.5 percent, according to the median of
33 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. From a year earlier,
GDP increased 2.8 percent.  Slowing Growth  “As a result of the weak Hungarian and German GDP numbers
the forint jumped above 270 against the euro,” Peter Karsai, a
trader at Commerzbank AG in Budapest, and colleagues wrote in an
e-mail to clients today.  Hungary’s government bonds maturing in June 2022 declined
for the first time since Aug. 5, sending the yield three basis
points, or 0.03 percentage point, higher to 7.506 percent.  OTP sank 5.6 percent. Hungary’s largest lender is among
central European banks most at risk from a strengthening Swiss
currency, according to ING Groep NV. A doubling of non-
performing loans denominated in the franc may cut OTP’s profit
by about 20 percent, the Dutch bank wrote in a report on Aug. 9.  The weakness of the forint since June “will add a further
substantial drag on household and corporate balance sheets,”
Peter Attard Montalto, an economist at Nomura International Plc
in  London , wrote in a research report.  Mol Nyrt. fell 3 percent to 16,970 forint. Hungary’s
largest refiner sees a “rising risk” of a double-dip
recession, Jozsef Simola, deputy chief executive officer, said
in a phone interview today after the company reported a profit
for the second quarter, compared with a loss a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest 
 agergely@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  