-- 
Hungary Economic Growth Halted in Second Quarter on Exports

-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 
2011-08-16T08:54:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/hungary-s-gdp-growth-halted-in-second-quarter-as-export-demand-faltered.html
Hungary’s economic growth stalled in
the second quarter as the global recovery faltered, endangering
the government’s budget plans.  Gross domestic product was unchanged from the first
quarter, the Budapest-based  statistics office  said in a
preliminary report today. The median estimate of nine economists
in a Bloomberg survey was for an increase of 0.4 percent. The
economy expanded 1.5 percent from a year earlier, compared with
2.5 percent in the first quarter.  Output petered out amid concern the debt crises in  Europe 
and the U.S. and slowing growth in  China  will derail the global
recovery. That may foil Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s plan to
cut the  budget deficit  and the debt level.  “You can throw out the window the 3 percent growth
projections for next year,” Zoltan Arokszallasi, a Budapest-
based economist at Erste Bank AG, said by phone today. “There
is probably a need for further budget measures.”  The forint weakened to 270.29 per euro at 9:15 a.m.,
compared with 269.25 late yesterday. The Hungarian currency was
trading at 240.778 per  Swiss franc .  Swiss Franc  Gains of the Swiss franc, a haven for investors shunning
euros and dollars, may curb Hungary’s growth by 0.5 percentage
point by raising forint payments on loans in the Alpine currency
and choking consumer purchasing power,  Mihaly Varga , Orban’s
chief of staff, said July 22.  The government’s “conservative” forecast calls for 3.1
percent economic growth this year and 3 percent in 2012.  Exports to the euro region powered  Hungary ’s recovery from
its worst recession in 18 years, propelling the economy to the
fastest growth since 2006 in the first quarter, with factories
run by Audi AG and Nokia Oyj boosting production.  Germany ’s
economy almost stalled in the second quarter, expanding 0.1
percent from the first three months of the year.  Hungary’s industrial production growth slowed to 1 percent
in June from 13 percent a year earlier. Retail sales grew 0.7
percent last May from the previous year after contracting for 41
consecutive months through June 2010, showing domestic demand
remains subdued. Industrial production is the biggest component
in the calculation of GDP with as much as a 25 percent
weighting.  Faltering Production  “The slowdown was primarily due to faltering industrial
production, which was caused by a drop in demand for exports,”
statistician Istvan Bedekovics told reporters today.  The  central bank  in June cut its growth forecast for this
year to 2.6 percent from a March prediction of 2.9 percent and
to 2.7 percent from 3 percent for 2012.  Orban is relying on faster economic expansion to help
reduce the highest debt load among the European Union’s eastern
members and cut the deficit level sustainably below 3 percent of
GDP. Hungary’s debt is 77 percent of GDP.  The government aims to cut the fiscal gap to 2.5 percent
next year after running a deficit of 4.3 percent in 2010 and a
forecast one-time surplus this year due to the effective
nationalization of private pension funds.  A Cabinet commitment to meet fiscal targets convinced
investors to buy Hungarian assets earlier this year after Orban
rejected extending an International Monetary Fund-led bailout
Hungary obtained in 2008.  “This is a rather gloomy situation since the budget
targets of this year’s and the next were based on a more
optimistic scenario,” researchers at Equilor Zrt. in Budapest
said in an e-mail today. “Further harsh measures are
unavoidable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  