-- 
Ex-United Technologies Chairman David Rescued After Yacht Capsizes in Race

-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 
2011-08-16T18:31:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/united-technologies-david-is-rescued-after-yacht-capsizes-in-fastnet-race.html
Former  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) 
Chairman George David and 20 others were pulled from the Celtic
Sea after the 100-foot, record-breaking yacht Rambler 100 lost
its keel and capsized during the  Fastnet Race .  A dive boat searching in 15-foot (5-meter) swells found
David, 69, Rambler’s skipper, and four other members of the crew
tethered together off the southwest tip of Ireland yesterday,
according to Rachel Jaspersen, marketing director for the
yachtmaker Gunboat, who was on the rescue boat.  Jaspersen said in a telephone interview that her boat went
to the scene after Coast Guard officials asked local traffic to
assist in searching for five people washed away from the yacht,
which was racing from the Isle of Wight in England, around
Fastnet Rock off the southwest Irish coast and back to Plymouth,
England.  The other 16 members of the crew scaled the overturned hull
and were rescued by a lifeboat from Baltimore, Ireland, race
organizers said in  a news release . David and four others spent 2
1/2 hours in the water, according to the release.  Jaspersen said her boat’s crew was taking photographs near
Fastnet Rock when they heard the distress calls. She said the
weather was “pouring rain, quite dark, very low visibility and
a huge swell.”  Jaspersen and others on her boat found sailbags and other
debris from Rambler as they searched for about 45 minutes before
spotting the five looking “like one little red blob.”  “George insisted on coming onboard last,” she said.  Hypothermia Treated  One crewmember, Wendy Touton, was airlifted for treatment
of hypothermia, according to the race website. The rest of the
crew was reunited at Baltimore Harbor.  Rambler 100 capsized after rounding Fastnet Rock at 5:25
p.m. Dublin time yesterday, while leading the monohull fleet.
Mick Harvey, project manager for the boat, said in the release
that he was below with navigator Peter Isler, a two-time
America’s Cup winner, when they heard the keel break off. The
boat capsized immediately.  Rambler 100 was built by Alex Jackson, co-founder of the
London hedge fund Polygon Investment Partners LLP. Last month,
the boat set the record for fastest crossing of the Atlantic
Ocean during a yacht race, covering 2,975 nautical miles between
Newport, R.I. and Cornwall,  England  in 6 days, 22 hours, 8
minutes, 2 seconds.  Driving Train  David, in an interview last month, compared sailing Rambler
to driving a train in terms of size and power. He said the crew
had doubled the strength of the underwater daggerboards, which
are foils near the keel, after breaking three during previous
voyages.  “When the first daggerboard breaks someone says ‘you hit
something,’” he said at the time. “After it was all said and
done, we decided the daggerboards were under spec and so we
built them again, same geometry, but with twice the material.”  David didn’t discuss the boat’s 18-foot keel, which helps
it stay upright by canting as much as 45 degrees off center, in
the interview.  The 600-mile Fastnet race has claimed lives and boats in
the past. A Force 10 gale struck the fleet of about 300 yachts
in 1979 with winds of 60 nautical miles an hour (70 miles an
hour), causing 40-foot waves, according to John Rousmaniere’s
history of the disaster, “Fastnet, Force 10.” Fifteen people
died, five yachts sank and rescuers saved 136 sailors from the
water. Only 85 boats finished.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in  New York  at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 