-- 
Uranium Spot Prices Fall as Vacation Season Cuts Demand, Ux Says

-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 
2011-08-16T02:17:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/uranium-spot-prices-fall-as-holiday-season-cuts-demand-ux-consulting-says.html
Uranium spot prices, which weakened
after the Fukushima reactor crisis in  Japan , fell 1.9 percent in
the past week during the Northern Hemisphere’s summer holiday
season,  Ux Consulting Co.  said.  Uranium-oxide concentrate for immediate delivery traded at
$50.50 a pound in the seven days through yesterday compared with
$51.50 the previous week, Ux said in an e-mailed report today.
That’s based on the most competitive offer tracked by the
Roswell, Georgia-based company.  The spot price for the nuclear fuel has declined 24 percent
since the week before a March 11 earthquake and tsunami damaged
Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi power station. The
crisis prompted some nations to put their atomic power plans on
hold.  China  halted approval of new plants and  Germany  said it
will shut more than 25 percent of its nuclear capacity.  “The spot uranium market continues to edge downward on
price-sensitive demand,” Ux said. “August is the height of the
vacation season, giving buyers yet another reason to stay away
from a market that has been languishing this summer as the
implications of the Fukushima accident have set in.”  Nuclear-power utilities buy the bulk of their uranium from
mining companies, with the contracts mostly extending beyond 12
months. The market for immediate delivery, or  spot market ,
allows trading for delivery within a year and includes buying
and selling by financial investors.  “Perhaps the best thing that can be said about the market
is that the fall buying season is approaching, which could
provide some boost to demand and possibly lead to the price
bottoming out or showing some slight recovery,” Ux said.
“However, this is a far cry from the expanding demand we saw
last year that was sufficient to sustain a price increase over a
number of months. If sufficient demand is not forthcoming, the
price could continue its downward trend.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Perth at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  