-- 
Mercedes Targeted as Luxury Cars Burned in German Globalization Protests

-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a   a n d   A l e x   W e b b
-- 
2011-08-17T11:41:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/luxury-cars-burned-in-berlin-protests.html
Berlin resident Renate Langanke woke
up shortly after midnight to a loud explosion. When the
pensioner peeked out her window, she saw flames billowing from
two Mercedes-Benz brand cars parked across the street.  “Fire and smoke were everywhere, you could smell burned
rubber, it was awful,” said Langanke, who lives in a sleepy
area with tree-lined alleys in white-collar western Berlin.
“I’ve always felt safe here, now I’m scared.”  Arsonists have set fire to 26 cars in the German capital in
the last two days, mainly from  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes,  Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi, police said today.
That brings the total number torched this year in Berlin to at
least 138, more than double the figure for all of 2010.  The rise in Berlin car burnings coincides with widespread
lawlessness that erupted last week across  England . More than
1,500 people were arrested as rioters looted shops, attacked
bystanders and burnt autos. In Berlin, far-left extremists are
specifically targeting German luxury cars, symbols of the
country’s wealth and export prowess, police said.  “The arsonists want to hit what they say are ‘Fat
Cats,’” Berlin police spokesman Michael Gassen said. A special
unit is investigating the fires as political crimes after the
police received letters claiming responsibility that derided
globalization, gentrification and rising rents, he said.  Political Discontent  While the attacks are spread out over the year, police
usually see a spike during the summer months. In some cases,
arsonists have placed barbeque charcoal lighters on tires and
ignited them, Thomas Neuendorf, a Berlin police spokesman, said
today. Arsonists have in the past also lit a car’s hood on fire
after hosing it with accelerant. No arrests have been made in
the most recent string of attacks.  The fires come amid worsening economic data and political
discontent in the country. German growth, last year the motor of
 Europe ’s recovery, almost ground to a halt in the second
quarter. Gross domestic product, adjusted for seasonal effects,
rose 0.1 percent from the first quarter, the Federal Statistics
Office in Wiesbaden said yesterday.  Almost two years into the European debt crisis that began
in  Greece , restiveness over  Germany ’s contribution to rescues is
also weighing on Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s coalition as voters
rebel over providing aid to fellow euro countries.  Merkel’s  Christian Democrats  have the backing of 32 percent
of Germans, while her coalition partners, the Free Democrats,
are supported by 3 percent, according to a Forsa poll released
Aug. 10. The two parties won the 2009 election with a combined
48.4 percent support.  Luxury Cars  When the country in 2009 experienced its worst recession
since World War II, a record 221 autos were torched. A key
factor for the unrest is that about 40 percent of German youths
are either without a high school degree or a paying job,
according to Johannes Becker, head of the Center for Conflict
Studies at the University of Marburg.  “In Britain you have the phenomenon that people are
predisposed to jumping on the bandwagon,” Becker said. “They
see that something is up and want to be part of it, to add some
fuel to the fire, as it were. With these cars in Berlin, they
are in contrast consciously trying to send a message.”  Berlin also has a history of political protest, where the
violent Baader-Meinhof gang staged its first armed attack in the
city in 1970, and demonstrators today regularly clash with
police during May Day marches.  “It is not necessarily the financial crisis which is the
main motivation for these attacks,” said Carsten Koschmieder, a
political scientist at the Free University in Berlin. “The
perpetrators see themselves as being from the left, and protest
against capitalism, globalization and gentrification.”  Moving West  The attacks in the past happened mainly in eastern Berlin
districts where more affluent tenants had pushed out squatters
who arrived there after reunification in 1990. It’s a “new
trend” that arsonists have now moved west, targeting areas such
as Westend and its upscale neighbor Charlottenburg, said Michael
Maass, a Berlin police spokesman.  Pensioner Wolfgang Lambrecht inspected a burned-out silver
Mercedes yesterday afternoon that was parked next to a tree, its
trunk blackened by the fire. Lambrecht, who has lived in a
nearby apartment for 16 years, woke up in the middle of the
night when the smell of burning tires crept through his open
bedroom window.  “In the morning, when I saw all the damage, I was so
upset that I told my wife, ‘Let’s pack our bags and get out of
here,’” he said. “But that would be giving in to the radicals,
wouldn’t it?’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Webb in  Frankfurt  at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  