-- 
Venezuela May Move Reserves From U.S. to ‘Allied’ Countries, Says Lawmaker

-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l   a n d   C o r i n a   R o d r i g u e z   P o n s
-- 
2011-08-16T21:05:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/venezuela-may-move-reserves-from-u-s-to-allied-countries-says-lawmaker.html
Venezuela  may transfer billions of
dollars in cash and gold reserves held in U.S. and European
banks to financial institutions in “allied” countries,
opposition lawmaker Julio Montoya said today.  Montoya, speaking on the  Globovision  network from the
National Assembly, said the  Finance Ministry  wants to transfer
more than $6 billion of cash reserves to countries including
China,  Russia  and  Brazil . Of Venezuela’s $18 billion in gold
reserves, $11 billion is held abroad and could be transported
back to Venezuela, Montoya said, citing a document he said he
obtained from the ministry.  “We think that China, Russia and Brazil have asked
Venezuela to transfer the reserves to guarantee the loans that
the government has received in recent years,” Montoya said.
“President  Hugo Chavez  has not yet approved the plan.”  Chavez, who says he wants to eliminate the “dictatorship”
of the  U.S. dollar , has called on Venezuela’s central bank to
diversify its $28.7 billion in reserves away from U.S.
institutions. He has also promoted the expanded use of the
sucre, a currency created by the Alba bloc in 2009, for regional
trade.  Messages left for officials at the Finance Ministry and
central bank seeking comment weren’t returned.  Country Risk  A large-scale repatriation of gold reserves and transfers
of assets to non-U.S. and European banks may cause borrowing
costs to rise over investor concerns regarding the guarantee of
outstanding bonds, Asdrubal Oliveros, director of Caracas-based
consulting and research firm Ecoanalitica, said.  “The country risk would rise because the reserves are seen
as a guarantee of payment for foreign investors,” he said. “A
repatriation of gold reserves could cloud the transparency over
actual holdings.”  Venezuela has the highest borrowing costs of all emerging-
market countries. The extra yield investors demand to own
Venezuelan  government bonds  instead of U.S. Treasuries rose 9
basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 1,184, today at 4:15
p.m. in  New York , according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+.  Venezuela’s government may want to move funds out of the
U.S. to avoid any possible freezing of funds in the future, said
Montoya, without providing more details.  Venezuela sold $4.2 billion of bonds due in 2031 on Aug. 5
with an interest rate of 11.95 percent. The government had
previously sold $3 billion of securities with a coupon of 12.75
percent in 2010.  Public Spending  The central bank has also transferred some $40 billion of
international reserves since 2005 to a government-run
development fund known as Fonden to finance infrastructure
projects, including $3.25 billion this year.  China  has lent Venezuela as much as $32 billion since 2008
to finance infrastructure and social development projects. The
South American country, in turn, ships more than 200,000 barrels
of oil a day to China to repay the loan. The government is in
talks with both Brazil and Russia for new multibillion-dollar
loans, Chavez said on Aug. 11.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net ;
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net  