-- 
Wal-Mart, Home Depot Raise Full-Year Forecasts as Earnings Top Estimates

-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t   a n d   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 
2011-08-16T20:17:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/wal-mart-home-depot-raise-full-year-forecasts-as-earnings-top-estimates.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Home Depot
Inc. (HD)  raised their full-year forecasts after second-quarter
profits beat analysts’ estimates, helped by U.S. consumers
shopping for discount items and tools to repair their homes.  Profit in the year ending in January will rise to $4.41 to
$4.51 a share, up from a previous projection of $4.35 to $4.50,
Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart, the world’s largest
retailer, said today in a statement. Home Depot boosted its
annual earnings-per-share forecast by 4.5 percent.  Wal-Mart Chief Executive Officer  Mike Duke  restored
thousands of products on the shelves to lure shoppers seeking
lower prices as they cope with high unemployment and fuel costs.
At Home Depot, the largest U.S. home-improvement retailer,
consumers bought flowers and cleaning supplies following spring
storms, as well as kitchen appliances and building materials.  “The consumer is still plugging along but hasn’t fallen
off a cliff like some people had expected,” said  Walter Todd ,
chief investment officer for Greenwood Capital in Greenwood,
 South Carolina , with assets of $950 million including 139,000
Home Depot shares and no Wal-Mart stock.  Home Depot rose $1.66, or 5.3 percent, to $33.12 at 4 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, making it the
best-performing stock on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. Wal-
Mart, the fourth best-performing stock, advanced $1.94, or 3.9
percent, to $51.92. Before today, Wal-Mart had dropped 0.8
percent in 12 months, while the S&P gained 12 percent.  ‘Concerned About Sales’  Retailers increasing their guidance, also including
discount clothing seller TJX Companies Inc. today, doesn’t
always signal improved confidence for the rest of the year.  Raising forecasts “shows the companies are operating more
efficiently and controlling expenses well,” said  Joe Feldman ,
an analyst for Telsey Advisory Group who doesn’t rate stocks.
“The economy is weighing on everybody, putting pressure on the
consumer. So all retailers are concerned about sales.”  Wal-Mart’s net income in the three months ended July 31
climbed 5.7 percent to $3.8 billion, or $1.09 a share, from $3.6
billion, or 97 cents, a year earlier. The average estimate of 21
analysts in a Bloomberg survey was $1.08 a share. Revenue rose
5.4 percent to $109.4 billion, Wal-Mart said in a statement.  Sales at U.S. stores owned by Wal-Mart and open at least a
year were unchanged from a year earlier, excluding fuel, after
falling for eight quarters. Sales at Sam’s Club locations open
gained 5 percent, while those sales at  Wal-Mart stores  declined
0.9 percent on that basis.  ‘Compete on Price’  “What Wal-Mart does best is compete on price,” said  Matt Arnold , an analyst at Edward Jones & Co. in  Des Peres ,  Missouri .
He recommends holding the shares.  Wal-Mart shoppers now cite employment rather than fuel and
food costs as their biggest concern, Chief Financial Officer
Charles Holley said today on a conference call.  At Atlanta-based Home Depot, net income advanced 14 percent
to $1.36 billion, or 86 cents a share, in the quarter ended July
31, from $1.19 billion, or 72 cents, a year earlier. Analysts
projected 82 cents on average.  Revenue from stores open at least 12 months climbed 4.3
percent, exceeding the median forecast of a 1 percent gain by
Janney Capital Markets, Piper Jaffray Cos. and JPMorgan Chase &
Co.  The gain “shows their focus on making improvements in
their stores,” said Todd, of Greenwood Capital.  Home Depot, whose average sale rose 3.3 percent to $54.04
last quarter, caters to different customers than Wal-Mart, Chief
Financial Officer Carol Tome said in an interview.  “Ours is a pretty high-end customer and a homeowner,” she
said in an interview. “Our customer is spending money on
maintaining their homes.”  The company increased its per-share profit forecast for the
year ending Jan. 29 to $2.34. It had projected $2.24 in May.
Analysts expected $2.30.  Lowe’s Co., the second-largest U.S. home-improvement
retailer, said yesterday that profit in its fiscal 2011 will be
less than it previously projected after comparable-store sales
fell.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in  New York  at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net ;
 Chris Burritt  in Greensboro,  North Carolina , at   cburritt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at   korland@bloomberg.net . 