-- 
Wal-Mart Raises Full-Year Profit Forecast After Halting Drop in U.S. Sales

-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 
2011-08-16T20:10:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/wal-mart-raises-full-year-forecast-after-second-quarter-profit-climbs-5-7-.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s
largest retailer, boosted its profit forecast for the year after
the Sam’s Club chain and changes in merchandising helped the
company halt a decline in U.S. store sales.  Profit in the fiscal year ending in January will be $4.41
to $4.51 a share, up from a previous projection of $4.35 to
$4.50, Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart said today in a
statement. The average estimate of 25 analysts in a Bloomberg
survey was $4.47. Second-quarter net income climbed 5.7 percent.  Chief Executive Officer  Mike Duke  is restoring products and
adding smaller containers to shelves to lure cash-strapped
consumers from dollar stores. Wal-Mart shoppers’ biggest concern
is unemployment, rather than fuel and food costs, Chief
Financial Officer Charles Holley said on a conference call.  “There were definitely some signs of life at Wal-Mart,”
Robert Drbul, an analyst at  Barclays Capital  in New York, said
today in an interview. “They’re managing the business very
well.”  Second-quarter sales at the company’s U.S. stores open at
least a year were unchanged from a year earlier, excluding fuel,
Wal-Mart said. Those sales had fallen in the eight previous
quarters. Excluding fuel, sales at Sam’s Club locations open at
least a year gained 5 percent, while those sales at U.S. Wal-
Mart stores declined 0.9 percent.  Wal-Mart advanced $1.94, or 3.9 percent, to $51.92 at 4
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the second-
biggest gain in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  after Home
Depot Inc. The shares have dropped 3.7 percent this year.  Second-Quarter Profit  Net income in the three months ended July 31 climbed to
$3.8 billion, or $1.09 a share, from $3.6 billion, or 97 cents,
a year earlier, Wal-Mart said. The average estimate of 21
analysts in a Bloomberg survey was $1.08 a share. Revenue rose
5.4 percent to $109.4 billion.  Wal-Mart’s international net sales increased 16 percent to
$30.1 billion, while Sam’s Club’s rose 9.5 percent to $13.6
billion. Net sales in the U.S. climbed 0.4 percent to $64.9
billion. Currency exchange-rate fluctuations benefited second-
quarter net sales included by $2.3 billion, Wal-Mart said.  Mexico , the U.K.,  Canada ,  Brazil  and  China  provided the
strongest net sales growth for Wal-Mart’s international
operations during the quarter, Doug McMillon, Wal-Mart
International president, said on a conference call.  Massmart, Netto  During the last quarter, Wal-Mart completed its purchase of
a majority stake in  Massmart Holdings Ltd. (MSM) , the South African
discount chain, and of 147 Netto discount supermarket stores in
the U.K.  Wal-Mart is exploring a bid for Carrefour SA’s Brazilian
stores to help bolster its scale in  Latin America , several
people with knowledge of the process said last week.  “Regarding new acquisitions, we remain very thoughtful in
acquiring new operations,” Holley said today on a prerecorded
conference call. “Our focus will continue to be investing in
companies that can deliver value to our customers and
shareholders.”  Wal-Mart’s customers continue to be “strained” by
economic conditions, Holley told reporters on a later call. The
U.S. unemployment rate was 9.1 percent in July, the fourth
straight month at 9 percent or higher. Confidence among
consumers in August fell to the lowest level since May 1980,
according to a survey from Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan.  For the current quarter, the company forecast profit of 95
cents to $1 a share, excluding some items. The average estimate
of 21 analysts was 97 cents.  “The biggest problem on Wal-Mart’s plate is their core
customer and their ability to spend,” said  Matt Arnold , an
analyst at Edward Jones & Co. in Des Peres, Missouri. He
recommends holding the shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in  New York  at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at 
 korland@bloomberg.net  