-- 
Walcott Goal Gives Arsenal Slim Champions League Playoff Lead Over Udinese

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-08-16T23:22:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/walcott-goal-gives-arsenal-slim-champions-league-playoff-lead-over-udinese.html
Arsenal began life without Cesc Fabregas with a 1-0 win over Udinese in the opening game of
their Champions League soccer playoff.  Theo Walcott scored after four minutes last night at the
 Emirates Stadium  in London to give Arsenal the victory a day
after Fabregas completed his long-discussed move to hometown
club  Barcelona .  “Cesc was a great player for the club but now he’s gone,”
midfielder Aaron Ramsey, who set up Walcott’s goal, said in a
televised interview. “We dug in and gave absolutely everything.
The most important thing is the clean sheet.”  Lyon and Viktoria Plzen both won 3-1 last night, while BATE
Borisov and  FC Twente  rallied for home draws in the two-game
playoff openers in European soccer’s elite club competition. The
return matches will be played Aug. 24 with the series winners
advancing to the 32-team group stage.  Arsenal was outshot 15-11 and needed several saves from
goalkeeper Wojciech Szczesny to keep its lead going to  Italy ,
where it will attempt to reach the group stage for a 14th
straight season.  The Gunners, who came through a qualifying round to reach
the group stage in four of the last five seasons, are on a
three-game losing streak on the road in the competition.  “We believe we’re capable of going over there to win,”
Ramsey said.  Suspensions, Injuries  In addition to Fabregas, Arsenal was without striker  Robin van Persie  and midfielder Samir Nasri, who were serving
suspensions picked up in last season’s loss at Barcelona, and
injured midfielder  Jack Wilshere . The Gunners then lost
defenders Kieran Gibbs and Johan Djourou to injury in the game.  Manager  Arsene Wenger  also sat out a suspension from the
Barcelona game. He communicated with the bench by telephone in
the first half before stopping after being warned by tournament
organizer UEFA. He didn’t speak to the media after the game.  Arsenal took the early lead as Ramsey ran onto a ball at
the edge of the Udinese area and sent a pass into the middle
which Walcott directed past goalkeeper Samir Handanovic.  Udinese’s Antonio Di Natale, the leading scorer in Serie A
the past two seasons, hit the crossbar with a looping free kick
in the 13th minute. Szczesny then stopped Pablo Armero, who
broke in alone after splitting two defenders near midfield. Di
Natale’s shot on the rebound was blocked by  Alex Song .  Laurent Koscielny lost possession early in the second half
and Di Natale took advantage to shoot from inside the area,
though his effort was blocked by the sliding Djourou.  Missed Chances  Walcott shot weakly after getting behind the defense with
20 minutes left. Szczesny then dived to stop another Di Natale
shot, while Handanovic saved from Walcott. Armero had one final
chance in stoppage time, though shot wide.  “We didn’t take advantage of the chances we had,” Udinese
coach Francesco Guidolin said in a press conference. “But it is
still open and we have a chance of qualifying in the next
match.”  Strikes from Bafetimbi Gomis and Jimmy Briand, plus an own
goal, lifted Lyon to the home win over Rubin Kazan in  France .
Czech champion Plzen also used an own goal and scores from
Vaclav Pilar and Martin Fillo to win in Copenhagen.  Bryan Ruiz’s goal in the 80th minute earned FC Twente the
home draw with Benfica. Luuk de Jong gave the Dutch club the
lead in the sixth minute before Oscar Cardozo and Nolito
answered before halftime for Benfica.  Marko Simic scored in the 59th minute to give BATE Borisov
the home draw with Sturm Graz, which got a first-half goal from
Manuel Weber.  The Champions League playoffs continue tonight with five
more games, including FC Zurich visiting four-time champion
 Bayern Munich .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  