-- 
Wall Street Fights Terror’s Shadow With Green Parks, New Life

-- B y   J a m e s   S .   R u s s e l l
-- 
2011-08-16T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/wall-street-fights-terror-s-long-shadow-with-urban-life-james-s-russell.html
In the decade since Sept. 11,  Lower
Manhattan  has overcome antiterrorist bombast and mismanaged
rebuilding to make a powerful case that cities can civilize.  Before the attacks, the financial district was a
neighborhood with an uncertain future. People abandoned its
grimy canyons after office hours. The New York Stock Exchange
dithered over whether to build a $1 billion addition. Many
wondered if electronic trading would make the urban financial
capital irrelevant.  Ten years later it seems every building and street in Lower
Manhattan has gotten (or is getting) a good scrubbing. Exuberant
Art Deco towers soar out of the Cubist collage of brick and
stone structures that jostle each other along the shadowy
sidewalks.  The Stock Exchange didn’t grow, but it gleams in Roman
temple splendor. Ambling tourists and parents pushing strollers
temper the neighborhood’s BlackBerry-fueled bustle.  Many of the forgotten little squares have gotten sensitive
makeovers, like Louise Nevelson Plaza, with its black-painted
sculptures rising like primordial sentinels amid winsome cast-
glass benches by architects Henry Smith-Miller and Laurie
Hawkinson.  The number of people living in the neighborhood has more
than doubled since 2001, according to a study by the  Alliance
for Downtown New York . That’s Lower  Manhattan ’s big success
story, aided by substantial tax breaks and Liberty Bonds that
financed development.  Spectacular Views  The rumpled stainless-steel facade of the 8 Spruce Street
residential tower by Gehry Partners LLP looms into view when you
least expect it. Its 903 units with scalloped bay windows
opening to spectacular views are renting rapidly even though
many units and a ground-level school have yet to be completed.  The patches of yellow and gray bricks on the  William Beaver
House , with both rental and for-sale units (architect  Tsao &
McKown ), are visible from  Brooklyn . With a lap pool and
“Penthouse Sky Lounge,” it’s designed to facilitate hookups by
young Wall Street workers.  After 9/11, experts feared a business exodus to less
terror-prone suburbs. Though financial employment has declined
by about 15,000 over the decade, according to the Alliance
study, few displaced firms moved farther away than Midtown.  A 2005 study by the  Russell Sage Foundation  found that
financial firms wouldn’t give up the value of proximity.
Closeness to the ecosystem of brokers, buyers, lenders,
attorneys, accountants, dealmakers and competitors (rich
poaching grounds) won out.  Big Ideas Rethought  Some big ideas fell by the wayside when it wasn’t clear
that government agencies had the capacity to manage  Ground
Zero ’s technical complexities, like a futuristic transportation
hub to directly link Lower Manhattan to airports and the
suburban workforce.  While steel has risen for the Fulton Street Transit Center,
this project of the  Metropolitan Transportation Authority , years
late and over budget, is only a modest refurbishment and
rationalization of a sclerotic sprawl of underground passageways
serving 10 subway lines.  Residential and hotel towers rose on many sites once
considered office-building candidates, which means the costly
rail projects could not have helped Lower Manhattan compete with
Midtown in job growth.  The ballet of swinging tower cranes at Ground Zero is
astonishing under new management at the  Port Authority  of New
York and  New Jersey . The political rhetoric of patriotic
defiance no longer distorts decision-making. Part of the
memorial plaza will open to the public on Sept. 11th.  World-Class Promenade  A necklace of new and existing parks wraps Lower Manhattan
in what is now one of the world’s great promenades. The
esplanade of Battery Park City, west of Ground Zero, has grown
so lush that tree canopies filled with twittering birds
obliterate the sights and sounds of the city. It now connects to
a string of waterfront parks that extend up the West Side to the
George Washington Bridge.  The best late summer breezes can often be found in Battery
Park, Manhattan’s Southern tip, where  Piet Oudolf , a celebrity
horticulturalist, has planted lush gardens. Sea Glass, a
carousel conceived by theater designer George Tsypin and  WXY
Architects , is on its way.  In front of the Staten Island Ferry Terminal, pick up a
cold drink at a swooping masterpiece of refreshment-stand art
designed by the Dutch architect Ben van Berkel.  The waterfront offers a perpetually fascinating contrast of
piled-up towers and the horizontal expanse of rivers and sea.
Swarms of people head to ferries for  Governors Island  from the
spectacularly restored 1909 Battery Maritime building.  OK to Touch Water  The first completed segment of the East River Esplanade has
opened just south of the South Street Seaport. Lush plantings
make a persuasive attempt to disguise the elevated FDR Drive.
(Landscape architect Ken Smith collaborated with architecture
firm  SHoP .) You can even touch the water, a health-threatening
activity until recent years.  The steady, unwavering commitment to making a better city
rise from the twin-tower ashes quietly yet powerfully refutes
murderous ideological rage.  (James S. Russell writes on architecture for Muse, the arts
and culture section of Bloomberg News. Island Press has just
published his book, “The Agile City.” The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in  New York  at 
 jamesrussell@earthlink.net ,  http://web.me.com/jscanlonrussell .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 