-- 
Wall Street to Cut 5% of Revenue Producers, Coalition Says

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 
2011-08-16T14:28:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/wall-street-to-cut-5-of-revenue-producers-coalition-says.html
Wall Street ’s largest firms will
probably cut about 5 percent of revenue-producing employees in
the second half of the year after fixed-income trading fell,
according to industry consultant  Coalition Ltd.   First-half investment banking and trading revenue declined
to $91 billion at the top 10 global banks from $93 billion a
year earlier, according to a report today by Coalition. The
projected staff reduction includes cuts already announced, the
firm said.  The 50 largest global banks announced almost 60,000 job
cuts through the first week of August, the fastest rate since
2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Regulators are
pushing lenders to hold more capital, and companies are
restructuring to improve profit as the U.S. economy stagnates.  Fixed-income traders produced annualized revenue of $3.5
million in the first half, down from last year, while advisory
and underwriting bankers generated $2.3 million and equities
salesmen and traders produced $1.8 million, according to the
Coalition report.  Commodities trading was the only business within fixed-
income, currencies and commodities, or FICC, to post a revenue
increase in the first half, according to the report. Credit
trading declined the most, about 24 percent from the first six
months of 2010. That drop was fueled by a decrease of about 50
percent in European credit-trading revenue in the second quarter
from the first, Coalition said.  Equities-trading revenue rose about 5 percent in the first
half, driven by a 20 percent increase from derivatives and
convertibles, according to the report. Advisory and underwriting
revenue climbed 31 percent, helped by mergers from financial
firms and energy companies, Coalition said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  