-- 
Wealthy Take Estate-Tax Exemptions Beyond Grave Until 2013

-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 
2011-08-16T14:04:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/wealthy-take-estate-tax-exemptions-beyond-grave-until-2013.html
Wealthy individuals in the U.S. will
find it easier to cut their estate-tax bill as a result of a
provision for using their deceased spouses’ exemption credit.  Everybody has a gift and estate-tax exemption of up to $5
million this year and next. For people who died after Dec. 31,
2010, any unused portion of that can now be passed by the estate
to the surviving spouse, according to tax legislation enacted by
Congress in December. Before that law, couples set up
specialized trusts and had to be sure their assets were divided
up in a certain way.  “It’s something that can help someone caught dying before
they did any planning, but certainly shouldn’t be something you
count on,” according to John Olivieri, a partner in the private
clients group in the New York office of  White & Case  LLP.  The $5 million exemption covers gifts made while alive as
well as after death. For example, if a married man died this
year and left his $2 million estate to his children and had made
a $1 million lifetime gift, he would have a $2 million exemption
that was unused. The portability provision would allow his widow
to take advantage of that $2 million exemption and add that to
her $5 million exemption, and give away up to $7 million free of
federal gift and estate taxes if she dies before 2013.  There are 3,300 estates in the U.S. that would owe federal
estate taxes under the current threshold of $5 million,
according to  estimates  from the  Tax Policy Center , a joint
venture of the  Urban Institute  and  Brookings Institution , two
Washington research groups.  Bypass Trusts  Portability will expire and the estate tax will switch to a
top rate of 55 percent instead of 35 percent and the exemption
will fall to $1 million as of Jan. 1, 2013, unless Congress
acts. The deficit reduction legislation enacted Aug. 2 calls for
reducing the deficit by at least $2.1 trillion over 10 years.  Before this year, taxpayers would prepare wills that
included so-called bypass or credit-shelter trusts to preserve
exemption amounts when they died, and passed the rest of their
assets to their surviving spouses upon death. Gifts to spouses
who are U.S. citizens during life or upon death generally aren’t
taxed under the  Internal Revenue Service ’s  rules .  Upon the death of one spouse, couples would put up to the
exemption amount in a trust, which would be structured to allow
distributions to the surviving spouse, Olivieri said. When the
second spouse died, the assets in the trust would pass tax-free
to the heirs because they’re outside the estate.  ‘Safety Valve’  “Portability is a safety valve for married couples that
didn’t have wills that utilized the exemptions,” said Marco
Svagna, a certified public accountant at New York-based Berdon
LLP, who advises clients with net worth of $100,000 to more than
$1 billion.  Having a will that includes a bypass trust and other tax-
planning strategies could cost up to $10,000, Olivieri said.  “Portability is meant to address the perceived problem
that although there is an estate-tax exemption, unless you do
some level of sophisticated planning, a married couple could
lose the benefit of one exemption,” Olivieri said.  Passing all assets to spouses upon death and using the
portability provision rather than forming bypass trusts is best
suited for taxpayers who have estates worth about $7 million or
less, with the main assets being real estate and retirement
plans, said Linda Hirschson, a trusts and estates lawyer at
Greenberg Traurig LLP in  New York .  That’s because they might not want put those assets in a
trust, since they need to live in the house and may want to
easily access the money in the retirement account, she said.
Taxpayers with estates worth more than $10 million should
continue to use bypass trusts, she said.  Lower Portable Amounts  Wealthy taxpayers should beware of undoing bypass trusts
and relying on portability because it may not be extended by
Congress, said Carlyn McCaffrey, a partner in the law firm
McDermott Will & Emery LLP where she is co-head of the New York
private client group.  Even if it is extended, the carryover amount may change if
the tax thresholds are altered, Olivieri said. That’s because
the legislation says the portable amount is the lesser of the
unused exemption amount of the first spouse to die or the
exemption amount at the time of the second spouse’s death.  That means if the threshold switches to $1 million in 2013
and the surviving spouse in the above example dies that year,
her estate would only be able to use $1 million under
portability instead of $2 million from her deceased spouse.  Trusts can also protect assets from creditors and election
rights of spouses, said McCaffrey. And they ensure that assets,
as well as their appreciation, are outside of the estate, she
said.  Give Gifts  One strategy to preserve portability, if it expires, is to
give the unused exemption amount away as a gift before 2013,
according to McCaffrey. In the above example where the wife gets
$2 million carried over from her husband, she could make a gift
of that amount this year or next year, and may still be able to
preserve her individual exemption amount.  It’s unclear whether surviving spouses can use their
inherited exemptions first, so a better way to preserve
portability in the above example would be for the wife to give
away the full $7 million before she dies, Olivieri said.  To take advantage of a deceased spouse’s unused exemption
amount, the executor of the estate must fill out an estate-tax
form to preserve the exemption for the surviving spouse, even if
estate taxes aren’t owed, said Svagna of Berdon. Estate-tax
returns must be filed within  nine months  after death, and six-
month extensions are generally granted.  Beware of Remarrying  Widow or widowers who remarry should remember that
portability only applies to the last deceased spouse, said White
& Case’s Olivieri.  If the wife with the $2 million unused exemption carried
over from her husband were to remarry someone who died this year
or next, and who had used all of his exemption amount through
gifts during his life and upon death totaling $5 million, she
would only have her individual $5 million exemption.  If she died before he did, she would maintain the $2
million unused exemption, said Olivieri.  Taxpayers should keep in mind that states generally don’t
allow for portability of unused state estate-tax exemptions and
states may have lower thresholds than the federal government,
said Hirschson of Greenberg Traurig. In New York, the limit is
$1 million and in  New Jersey , it’s $675,000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in New York 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 