-- 
Xtep May Buy Chinese Shoe, Clothes Makers to Expand Network

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-16T09:47:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/xtep-may-buy-chinese-shoe-and-clothes-makers-to-boost-production.html
Xtep International Holdings (1368)  Ltd.,
the Chinese sportswear maker part-owned by the  Carlyle Group , is
looking for acquisitions in the clothing and shoemaking
industries to expand distribution and boost production.  Xtep may invest in smaller rivals in  China , Chairman and
Chief Executive Ding Shui Po said in a phone interview today
from  Hong Kong . “We’ll never give up the plan” to expand
through acquisitions, said Ding, declining to say how much the
company may spend or provide other details.  The Chinese sportswear industry’s projected growth of 15 to
20 percent this year and next is “sound and healthy” given the
large base, Ding said. Xtep will continue to open stores in
smaller cities where there’s room for expansion, Chief Financial
Officer Terry Ho said last month, amid increased competition
from overseas companies such as  Nike Inc. (NKE)  and local leaders such
as Li Ning Co.  “With some decent-sized acquisitions, especially on
distribution channel, Xtep may be able to lift its share in a
competitive marketplace,” said Liu Hui, an analyst with Capital
Securities Corp in  Shanghai .  The Chinese market for sportswear, including apparel and
shoes, grew 13 percent to 121 billion yuan ($19 billion) last
year, data from Euromonitor International show. Xtep was the
sixth largest company in the shoes segment with 5.5 percent
share and ranked seventh in apparel with 5.3 percent share,
according to Euromonitor.  Market Share  Nike, the world’s largest sporting-goods maker, led both
markets in China with a share of 18.3 percent in shoes and 10.6
percent in sports clothes.  Li Ning , China’s largest sportswear
maker and retailer, followed with 10.7 percent and 9.9 percent
share respectively, according to the London-based researcher.  Xtep rose 7.2 percent, the most since Oct. 22, to HK$4.18
at the close of trading in Hong Kong. The benchmark  Hang Seng
Index  fell 0.2 percent.  First-half net income grew 25 percent to 466 million yuan,
Xtep, based in the southeast Chinese province of Fujian, said in
a statement today. Revenue at the company climbed 26 percent to
2.57 billion yuan, it said.  Xtep, which also provides jerseys and sports products to
English Premier League football club Birmingham City and Spanish
La Liga team Villarreal C.F, had about 1.8 billion yuan in cash
($282 million) at hand as of the end of June, the company said.
It had 7,438 retail outlets at the end of June, 407 more than
the number at the end of 2010, according to the statement.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  