-- 
Yale Lab Where Student Died Lacked Safety Gear, U.S. Finds

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 
2011-08-16T23:03:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-16/yale-lab-where-student-died-lacked-safety-gear-u-s-finds-1-.html
Yale University  failed to equip a
laboratory lathe with safeguards or provide protective gear for
students, a U.S. agency said after investigating the death of a
woman whose hair became entangled in the equipment.  Michele Dufault, a senior weeks away from graduating, was
found dead April 13 after using the lathe in the Sterling
Chemistry Laboratory. Yale’s machine lacked an emergency stop
button, according to a letter yesterday from a regional office
of the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration.  The agency said it wouldn’t fine Yale, in  New Haven ,
 Connecticut , because it doesn’t have jurisdiction, according to
the letter.  OSHA’s assessment has “significant inaccuracies” about
safety, training and maintenance of machine-shop equipment, Tom Conroy, a Yale spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.  “Machine tool training provided by Yale was extensive,
consistently reinforced by professional staff and confirmed by
Yale’s expert to be exemplary,” Conroy said. “Personal
protective equipment was provided in the shop.”  Deficiencies found in the Yale lab included a failure to
post rules and regulations for using the machines, according to
the letter from Robert Kowalski, OSHA’s area director in
Bridgeport, Connecticut.  Dufault, an astronomy and physics major, was working in the
laboratory on a project at the time of the accident. Her body
was found by students working in the building, according to an
April statement by Yale President  Richard Levin .  ‘Machine Safeguarding’  The lathe was made in 1962 and had been owned by Yale since
at least 2000, according to the OSHA letter.  “Guards were not provided” on the machine, according to
OSHA. In addition, site safety inspections of the mechanical
shop “did not address machine safeguarding,” OSHA said.  The university said in April that it would assess safety
policies and practices in its laboratories, machine shops and
school facilities where undergraduates are permitted to work.  OSHA said it couldn’t issue citations because “there must
be an employer/employee relationship” and Dufault was a
student, according to the letter.  Yale should develop an inspection program conducted by
safety professionals and set up a personal protective training
program, according to OSHA. The university should also require
two people at all times when the machines are being used, the
agency said.  “Students were repeatedly instructed not to use machinery
without a buddy present,” Conroy said.  The  Associated Press  reported the OSHA letter earlier
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in  Washington  at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 