-- Afghan Army Will Bear Greater Brunt of Insurgency, Dempsey Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-02-09T22:08:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-09/afghan-army-to-bear-greater-brunt-of-insurgency-dempsey-says.html
The Taliban-led insurgency will
direct most of its intense combat this year against Afghan
security forces rather than U.S. and NATO troops, the top U.S.
military official said.  Given the “steady and gradual decline” in the 66,000-
strong U.S. force projected for this year, the Afghan military
will bear a greater share of the attacks, Joint Chiefs of Staff
Chairman General  Martin Dempsey  told reporters at Ramstein Air
Force Base in Germany yesterday.  Asked about the upcoming fighting season, Dempsey referred
to statements from Taliban leaders vowing that 2013 would be an
“intense year.” He pointed to casualty figures in January, the
first month in 19 that not a single U.S. or coalition member was
killed, while 25 Afghan soldiers died.  “Here’s what’s different -- this is the first summer in
which the Afghan Security Forces are literally in the lead,”
Dempsey said. “That intensity will be directed principally
toward them” and potentially “change the internal discourse”
as local security casualties increase, he said.  “This will be the first summer we’ll see how it changes,”
he said. “We’ll be there with them. What really hangs in the
balance now is the confidence level of the Afghan Security
Forces and its people, so that’s why we’ve got to sustain our
presence for the next two years.”  Command Change  Dempsey is traveling to Afghanistan for a change-of-command
ceremony today that will see U.S. Marine Corps General  Joseph Dunford  replace Marine General  John Allen  as the top North
Atlantic Treaty Organization commander in Afghanistan. Allen is
President  Barack Obama ’s nominee to serve as Supreme Allied
Commander of NATO and U.S. Forces in Europe.  Obama said after meeting with Afghanistan President  Hamid Karzai  earlier this month that “coalition forces will move to a
support role this spring” as Afghans take the lead. Obama has
pledged to remove most of the U.S. forces by the end of 2014.  Dempsey yesterday called the Afghan troops “capable
fighters.” As of the end of September, only one Afghan brigade
out of 23 was considered capable of operating independently,
even with the help of advisers, according to a Pentagon report
to Congress in December.  Asked about his impression of U.S.-Pakistan military
relations and that country’s willingness to attack Taliban
havens along its northwestern border with Afghanistan, Dempsey
said he has seen “encouraging” signs of cooperation.  Pakistan Cooperation  The Pakistanis “finally believe we are not just going to
shut out the lights and leave at the end of 2014,” Dempsey
said. “I think they see a viable partnership between them, us
and the Afghans. Co-operation at the tactical level has
improved, and I think it is migrating to the operational level”
between U.S. and Pakistani commanders.  Cooperation has extended beyond border posts to greater
coordination between “higher level commanders,” he said. “We
are sensing a greater recognition on Pakistan’s part that the
terrorism threat” poses as much of a peril to that country as
it does to the U.S., he said.  Dempsey said he’d never recommend withdrawing all U.S.
troops after 2014, an option White House officials mentioned
last month in a briefing with reporters. He said a presidential
announcement on the size, scope and pace of the U.S. drawdown
this year must come soon given it’s already February.  Dempsey said discussions between the U.S. and Afghan
governments over the agreement that will spell out legal
immunity for U.S. troops, a key to a final pact, are “going
pretty well.”  Asked about the prospects of political reconciliation with
the Taliban, Dempsey said the group is discussing its next move.  “Their behavior appears to be migrating toward becoming a
political factor” and “less an internal security threat,” he
said. While that’s “encouraging,” the Taliban hasn’t made a
major shift at this point, he said.  “There will be irreconcilable parts of the Taliban that
are just so ideologically skewed that the idea of any concession
is just anathema to them,” while other factions will be
“willing to become part of the political landscape, and not
part of the security landscape,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  