-- Automatic Cuts Risk Readiness Most, General Dempsey Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-02-09T14:30:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-09/automatic-cuts-risk-readiness-most-general-dempsey-says.html
The automatic budget cuts of about
$45 billion the Pentagon faces this fiscal year will fall on
readiness of U.S. forces more than on major weapons programs,
according to the top U.S. military official.  “Some of the stuff in these big procurement accounts are
already locked in for this calendar year and you just can’t
touch them,” Army General  Martin Dempsey , chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff, told reporters today en route to a change-of-
command ceremony in Afghanistan. “That’s why readiness is going
to be so dramatically affected this year.”  The automatic reductions in defense and domestic programs,
known as sequestration, will take effect March 1 unless Congress
and President Barack Obama reach agreement on an alternative
plan to reduce federal deficits. Defense programs would be cut
by about $45 billion in the seven months remaining in this
fiscal year ending Sept. 30 and about $500 billion over a
decade.  “We’re just going to have to sweep up every bit of money
that is not otherwise locked down,” said Dempsey, who is
scheduled to testify to Congress on the cuts next week. “Most
of the money you can get at, on such a short timeline, happens
to reside in the readiness accounts.”  Readiness includes training for U.S. forces and operations
and maintenance funds for war-fighting equipment.  If sequestration stays in effect for a decade, Dempsey
said, about one-third of the cuts would be achieved by reducing
the size of U.S. forces.  “The other two-thirds will come out of modernization,
compensation at some level and readiness,” and major weapons
programs would also be affected, he said.  Afghanistan Command  Dempsey traveled to Afghanistan to mark Marine Corps
General  Joseph Dunford  taking command of U.S. and North Atlantic
Treaty Organization forces there. He replaces Marine Corps
General  John Allen , Obama’s nominee to serve as Supreme Allied
Commander of NATO and U.S. Forces in Europe.  Allen’s nomination awaits Senate action. It had been on
hold until a probe by the Pentagon’s inspector general found no
wrongdoing in his e-mail exchanges with a Florida woman.  In addition to sequestration, Dempsey said the Pentagon is
absorbing $487 billion over 10 years in reductions from planned
spending mandated by the 2011 Budget Control Act as well as
reduced funding in a stopgap spending measure that expires March
27 and may be renewed by Congress.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio en route to Afghanistan
at  acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  