-- Incapital Sues BNY Mellon, Executives Over Secrets
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-02-10T17:26:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-09/bofa-s-incapital-sues-bny-mellon-executives-over-secrets.html
(Corrects to show Bank of America Corp. no longer holds an
ownership interest in Incapital in story published Feb. 8.)  Incapital LLC, a Chicago-based bond
underwriter and distributor, sued three former executives for
allegedly taking proprietary information to BNY Mellon Capital
Markets LLC when they left the firm.  The complaint, filed today at in Illinois state court in
Chicago, pits the  Bank of New York Mellon Corp.  unit against the
firm founded in 1999 by  Thomas S Ricketts , who also owns Major
League Baseball’s Chicago Cubs.  Incapital also accused the BNY Mellon unit of interfering
with its clearing relationship with Pershing LLC.  One of the defendants allegedly told one of the other two
they would “take the baseball bat to the back of (Incapital’s)
skull” upon moving to BNY Mellon, according to the complaint.  Incapital claimed  Adam Friedman , Matthew Reilly and  Andrew Murray  breached contractual obligations to their former firm by
scheming to “steal” its third party broker-dealer information.
It accused the BNY Mellon unit of contractual interference.  The firm, in which  Bank of America Corp . previously held an
ownership interest, is seeking a court order compelling the men,
each of whom lives in Florida, to immediately return to
Incapital any of the firm’s protected information they have in
their possession.  Kevin Heine , a spokesman for New York-based BNY Mellon,
said by phone that he was unaware of the allegations and
declined to comment on them.  In a regulatory filing last year, Bank of America listed
Incapital among its direct and indirect subsidiaries as of Dec.
31, 2011. The firm isn’t part of the lender,  Jerry Dubrowski , a
spokesman for the Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank, said
Feb. 10 in an e-mail.  The case is Incapital LLC v. Friedman, 2013ch03994, in the
Cook County, Illinois, Circuit Court, Law Division (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  