-- California Bus Company in Fatal Crash Shut Down by U.S.
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2013-02-09T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-09/california-bus-company-in-fatal-crash-shut-down-by-u-s-.html
The U.S. Transportation Department
shut down a California bus company five days after a crash that
killed eight people on a mountain highway, saying the firm
wasn’t maintaining or inspecting its vehicles properly.  Scapadas Magicas LLC was declared an imminent hazard to
public safety yesterday by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety
Administration. One of the National City, California-based
company’s three buses crashed into a car and a pickup truck on
Feb. 3. Seven bus passengers died, as did the truck driver. More
than 40 were injured, according to the government’s order.  “We will not tolerate unsafe bus companies on our nation’s
roads,” Transportation Secretary  Ray LaHood  said in a
statement. “We will not allow safety to be compromised.”  The bus involved in the crash near Yucaipa, California, was
ordered off the road twice last year because of defective
brakes. The company was cleared by U.S. regulators on Jan. 9 to
operate without restrictions. The bus was en route to Tijuana,
Mexico, after a day trip to the San Bernardino National Forest.  The bus had been taken out of service after roadside
inspections on May 25 and July 11, according to the FMCSA’s
website. The bus’s wheel fasteners were loose or missing on May
25. It had a damaged windshield on the July stop and again on
Oct. 16. During the three inspections, police found a total of
17 safety violations, the records show.  The driver reported before the crash that the brakes had
failed and passengers said they saw smoke coming from under the
bus, according to the order.  Investigators’ Findings  A post-crash investigation by regulators found the
company’s two other U.S. motorcoaches had serious mechanical
safety violations, and those buses were immediately taken out of
service, the Transportation Department said yesterday.  Investigators also found that the company had failed to
ensure that its vehicles were systematically inspected, repaired
and maintained, and that its drivers were properly qualified and
licensed, contrary to information provided by company officials
in January, according to yesterday’s statement.  Companies with multiple, known safety violations haven’t
been shut down until after a fatal crash, National
Transportation Safety Board Chairman  Deborah Hersman  said at a
meeting with reporters in Washington Feb. 6. She cited repeated
incidents involving bad maintenance and fatigued drivers.  “Is it the cost of business for these companies to get put
out of service?” said Hersman, whose board investigates
accidents and makes recommendations for safety improvements.
“We’ve got to have regulations with teeth, and the penalties
have to be a deterrent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  