-- Cameco Fourth-Quarter Profit Beats Analysts’ Estimates
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e   a n d   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2013-02-09T02:15:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-09/cameco-fourth-quarter-profit-beats-analysts-estimates-correct-.html
(Corrects writedown figure in eighth paragraph.)  Cameco Corp. , the third-largest
uranium producer, posted fourth-quarter profit that beat
analysts’ estimates, boosted by its electricity business.  Profit excluding some items was 60 Canadian cents a share
on revenue of C$958 million ($956 million), Saskatoon,
Saskatchewan-based Cameco said today in a statement. Analysts
had projected, on average, profit of 41 cents and C$769 million
in sales, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales and earnings in the electricity business gained on
higher generation and lower operating costs. The price Cameco
got per megawatt-hour of power rose 1.9 percent to C$54.  In 2013, Cameco expects revenue to rise as much as 5
percent, or up to C$2.44 billion, as the price of uranium
rebounds. Analysts estimate C$2.39 billion.  Uranium  for immediate delivery has rallied 7.4 percent
after touching a near 17-month low on Nov. 7, Metal Bulletin
data show. That’s amid optimism Japan will reconsider the
shutdown of nuclear reactors that followed the 2011 meltdown at
Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power
plant.  “There are strong indications that additional plants will
be coming back on line in Japan,” Cameco Chief Executive
Officer  Tim Gitzel  said in the statement.  Japan’s pro-nuclear Liberal Democratic Party won a two-
thirds majority in Japan’s lower house of parliament in a Dec.
16 election.  Cameco’s fourth-quarter net income fell 84 percent to C$45
million, or 11 cents a share, from a year ago. The company
recorded a C$168 million writedown of its interest in the
Kintyre project in Australia.  Kazatomprom, Kazakhstan’s state-owned producer, and Paris-
based Areva SA are the biggest uranium miners, according to the
 World Nuclear Association .  (Cameco scheduled a conference call for Feb. 11 at 11 a.m.
New York time and can be accessed at  http://www.cameco.com .)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Chediak in San Francisco at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  