-- China’s Toll-Free Holiday Roads Cut Traffic Jams Nationwide
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-09T07:31:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-09/china-s-toll-free-holiday-highways-cut-traffic-jams-nationwide.html
China eliminated tolls on its
nationwide highway network for most passenger vehicles for the
annual Lunar New Year holiday in a move meant to reduce traffic
congestion during the planet’s biggest human migration.  China Central Television’s news channel showed scenes of
smooth-flowing traffic on highways in the country’s heavily
populated eastern provinces today. Cars with seven seats or less
will be able to ride toll free from today through Feb. 15, the
official Xinhua News Agency reported.  Most of China’s major highways are dotted with toll booths,
and in previous years they became the source of delays as
traffic backed up waiting to pay the fees. Xinhua cited one
Beijing resident as saying he will save more than 200 yuan ($32)
in toll fees returning to his hometown in central China’s Henan
province tomorrow.  Icy weather this week has hindered New Year travel. Snow
and rain led to 4,680 traffic accidents in Shanghai as of the
late evening on Feb. 7. At least 13 people were killed in
collisions on an icy expressway in central Hunan province
yesterday, Xinhua reported.  Most of the northern part of China was clear today, the
China Meteorological Association reported on its  website , with
freezing rain continuing in the southern provinces of Guizhou,
Hunan and Jiangxi and snow tapering off elsewhere.  A record 3.41 billion passenger trips may be made this year
during the Lunar New Year period, Xinhua reported on Feb. 5,
citing the National Development and Reform Commission. Today,
the eve of Lunar New Year, the Ministry of Railways expects 3.54
million people to ride trains, down from 6.11 million yesterday,
Xinhua reported today. The country’s airlines have the capacity
to transport 35.5 million passengers in the 40-day holiday
period that began Jan. 26 and runs through March 6, Xinhua said.  Trains are set to record 225 million trips during the
holiday, Xinhua reported.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  