-- ECB’s Visco Says Some Italian Lenders Still Need More Capital
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-02-09T12:40:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-09/ecb-s-visco-says-some-italian-lenders-still-need-more-capital.html
European Central Bank council member
 Ignazio Visco  said some medium to large Italian banks need more
capital as the country’s recession drags on.  “Some large- and medium-sized groups still must make
progress on the road to broadening their resources,” Visco,
also head of Italy’s central bank, said in a speech today in
Bergamo, Italy. Increasing capital “allows a reduction of
financial leverage without cutting credit support to the real
economy. The strengthening is in the interests of
shareholders.”  Italy is mired in its fourth recession since 2001 as Prime
Minster  Mario Monti ’s policies to contain the budget deficit
curb domestic demand. Unemployment was at the highest in more
than 13 years in December and consumer confidence fell in
January to the lowest level since at least 1996.  “The economic decline may end in the second half of 2013,
with a return to growth at a modest pace and with high
uncertainty,” Visco said.  The image of Italy’s banks has been affected by the fallout
of accounting irregularities and criminal probes of  Banca Monte
Dei Paschi di Siena SpA . On Feb. 7, Monte Paschi said it will
take a 730 million-euro ($975 million) hit to its assets after
accounting for structured deals that hid earlier losses.  Derivative Deals  Siena prosecutors are probing the bank’s former managers
for alleged market manipulation, false accounting, obstructing
regulators and fraud, people familiar with the matter have said.  Monte Paschi Chief Executive Officer  Fabrizio Viola  told
reporters in Bergamo today that the bank hasn’t decided whether
to restructure two derivative transactions, dubbed Santorini and
Alexandria, which were used to disguise losses.  The bank is slated to receive a 3.9 billion-euro taxpayer
bailout this month to boost capital after failing to meet
regulators’ minimum requirements.  Monte Paschi  has declined 17 percent in Milan trading since
Bloomberg News first published details of the Santorini
transaction on Jan. 17.  Italian lender deposits rose an annual 6.9 percent in
December, the 11th consecutive monthly increase, the Rome-based
central bank said yesterday. Still, in the same month loans to
companies shrank by about 9.1 billion euros from November, the
 ECB  said in a Jan. 28 report.  Changing Management  Visco said today that regulators need more power to fire
managers at the companies it oversees.  “When a lender isn’t in a situation of crisis, the Bank of
Italy can ask shareholders to change management, but it can’t
overrule their decision,” Visco said. Regulators “must be able
to effectively intervene in cases where, on the basis of
established evidence, they see fit to oppose the appointment of
managers or remove them.”  The Italian central bank said on Jan. 24 that Monte
Paschi’s former managers hid from it “the nature of some
transactions.” The Bank of Italy has rejected criticism from
lawmakers and consumer associations of its oversight of the
Siena-based lender’s accounts and trades.  Former Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti  said on Jan. 25
that normally it’s up to the Bank of Italy to inform prosecutors
and not the other way around. “I think everything was very well
known in certain circles,” he said.  The Bank of Italy’s role isn’t to “police” lenders and it
wasn’t informed of Monte Paschi’s newly emerged transactions
producing losses, Visco said in a Jan. 25 interview in Davos,
Switzerland.  The Bank of Italy “has done everything it should, looking
ahead it will be important for Monte Paschi to follow through on
its restructuring plans,”  Mario Draghi , ECB President and
Visco’s predecessor at the Italian central bank, told reporters
in Frankfurt on Feb. 7. “It was me who signed both inspections
and don’t forget it was Banca d’Italia who gave most of the
papers to the judiciary.”  -- With assistance from  Sonia Sirletti  in Bergamo and Elisa
Martinuzzi in Milan. Editors:  Frank Connelly ,  Alistair Reed   To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  