-- Merkel Education Minister Steps Down to Fight Plagiarism Charges
-- B y   J o s e p h   d e   W e c k   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2013-02-09T13:42:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-09/merkel-education-minister-steps-down-to-fight-plagiarism-charges.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
education and research minister stepped down from the Cabinet to
fight allegations that she plagiarized her doctoral thesis.  Annette Schavan , 57, a member of Merkel’s Christian
Democratic Union party, was stripped of her doctorate by the
University of Dusseldorf on Feb. 5. She denies that she copied
her 1980 PhD and said she will challenge the charge.  Schavan “offered her resignation to me last night” and
“I very reluctantly accepted it,” Merkel said at a joint press
conference with her minister in Berlin today. She is “one of
the most recognized and distinguished education politicians in
the country,” who “lives education, research and science
policy,” Merkel said. “I thank her from the bottom of my heart
for everything she has done in her professional life for our
country.”  Merkel nominated  Johanna Wanka , the outgoing minister for
science and culture in Lower Saxony state to replace Schavan.
She will be appointed to the Cabinet on Feb. 14.  Schavan, a Merkel confidante and the only member of Cabinet
to have held the same post since the chancellor came to power in
2005, is the second German minister to be the subject of
plagiarism allegations in two years. Defense Minister  Karl- Theodor zu Guttenberg  stepped down in March 2011, two weeks
after he was stripped of his doctorate.  Internet Allegations  Anonymous allegations surrounding Schavan’s dissertation
surfaced on the Internet in May 2012 and the minister asked her
former university to investigate. Schavan was in South Africa on
an official trip when the Heinrich Heine University Dusseldorf
announced the results. It concluded she had “systematically”
copied parts of her 1980 doctoral thesis on philosophy.  “I won’t accept this decision and will sue against it,”
Schavan said today. “I neither copied nor cheated,” she said.
“The allegations insult me deeply.” She plans to retain her
seat in the lower house of parliament, the Bundestag.  While the affair is a distraction for Merkel eight months
before federal elections, it is unlikely to disrupt her bid for
a third term. Guttenberg’s loss didn’t cause any lasting damage
to Merkel’s approval ratings even though he was the most popular
German politician at the time.  “Schavan stepping down does not have a lot of consequences
for Merkel,”  Peter Matuschek , chief political analyst at the
Forsa polling institute in Berlin, said in a phone interview.
“We saw it with Guttenberg; once he resigned, the story was
over.”  Public opinion is “relatively divided” on whether Schavan
should go, lessening the political impact still further,
Matuschek said. In a Feb. 8 Forsa poll for broadcaster RTL, 49
percent of respondents said that Schavan should step down, and
43 percent said she should stay.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joseph de Weck  in Berlin at 
 jdeweck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  