-- Lew to Be Pressed on Cayman Islands Investment at Hearing
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2013-02-09T05:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-09/lew-to-be-questioned-on-caymans-investment-at-hearing.html
Jack Lew , nominated to be U.S.
Treasury secretary, had an investment in a Cayman Islands fund
located in a building known as home for offshore tax havens that
President  Barack Obama  criticized during his 2008 campaign.  Lew will be asked about his investment in a Citigroup Inc.
fund during his confirmation hearing before the Senate Finance
Committee on Feb. 13, Senator  Charles Grassley , an Iowa
Republican, said yesterday in a statement.  Lew had between $50,001 and $100,000 in the fund, according
to a 2009 financial disclosure form. The fund was located in a
building known as Ugland House, according to Securities and
Exchange Commission filings released by Grassley.  Lew, Obama’s former chief of staff and head of the Office
of Management and Budget, was a Citigroup executive before
joining the Obama administration in 2009.  White House spokesman Eric Schultz said that Lew’s
investment in the Cayman Islands fund is “not news to the
Senate,” as it had been disclosed in previous confirmation
proceedings for other administration positions.  “Jack Lew paid all of his taxes and reported all of the
income, gains and losses from the investment on his tax
returns,” Schultz said in a statement. “He played no role in
creating, managing or operating the fund and he sold his
investment in 2010 at a net loss.”  Ugland House, a five-story office building on South Church
Street in the Caymans, served as the official address for 18,857
corporations as of March 2008, according to a U.S. Government
Accountability Office study published that year. About half
those Cayman companies had billing addresses in the U.S.,
according to the study.  Obama Remarks  In January 2008, then-candidate Obama referred to a
building in the Cayman Islands that is “either the biggest
building or the biggest tax scam on record.”  During the 2012 presidential race, Obama’s campaign
released an ad in July accusing Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  of outsourcing jobs and stashing his money in overseas
accounts. Romney, a former Massachusetts governor who made his
fortune as a private-equity executive, last year reported
holdings that included investments in the Cayman Islands.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  