-- For Chinese New Year, Beijing Expects to Be Gasping
-- B y   E v a n   S o l t a s
-- 2013-02-09T16:00:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-09/for-chinese-new-year-beijing-expects-to-be-gasping.html
On Feb. 10, Beijing will celebrate
the Chinese New Year -- assuming the city can catch its breath.
January may have been its worst month ever for air pollution.
The level of airborne particulates was  six times higher  than the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency considers safe.  The EPA’s Air Quality Index measures small-particulate
pollution on a scale that runs from 0 to 500. Last month,
Beijing’s intraday high was often 360, deemed “ hazardous .” The
daily average was 230, deemed “very unhealthy.” A typical
reading for New York is 80, considered “moderate.” On Jan. 22,
Beijing’s pollution was  literally off the scale . Its AQI score
was 755. On five other days, the reading exceeded 500, the
nominal maximum.  It’s no surprise that the medical effects of breathing air
like that are grim. Living in Beijing is equivalent to smoking
one to three cigarettes a day, according to C.  Arden Pope III ,
an environmental economist at Brigham Young University. The risk
of respiratory and cardiovascular disease increases
substantially, Pope said in an e-mail. The risk of death from
lung cancer is roughly 40 percent higher, and the risk of
cardiovascular disease 30 percent higher (see this  2011 study ).  Air pollution, of course, is the textbook case of
externality: The costs are borne by everyone, not just those
responsible for it. In effect, the polluters are subsidized.
Hence they pollute too much. In principle the government should
step in, either to “internalize the externality” by pushing
the cost back on to the polluters or by regulating to similar
effect. But that would slow (conventionally measured) economic
growth, something China’s government has been reluctant to do.  “Air pollution is obviously not one of the priorities of
the Chinese elite, who are not responsive to their middle class,
and environmental protections would directly conflict with their
strategy for economic growth,” said  Daron Acemoglu , a
development economist at the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology. This isn’t just market failure, he said, but a
failure of institutions -- a reflection of China’s undemocratic
politics. “The Chinese political system does not make it so
easy for voices to be heard and actions to be taken in
response.”  Recently though, the situation has gotten so bad that it’s
becoming impossible even for China’s rulers to ignore. Protests
have been on the rise and the government has begun to respond --
for instance, by allowing  state media  to report levels of small
particulates, which it had previously resisted. The government
has also announced that somewhat stricter  vehicle-fuel standards 
will be mandatory by the end of next year. That’s something. At
least it’s no longer denying the problem.  If real change starts to happen, it may go further than
either the city’s choking residents or the Chinese government
envisage. Acemoglu said, “As the number of middle-class Chinese
people unhappy with air pollution increases, and they come to
understand that such problems stem from their lack of political
voice, this could be a spark for something bigger.”  ( Evan Soltas  is a student at Princeton University and a
contributor to the Ticker. The opinions expressed are his own.
Follow him on  Twitter .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Evan Soltas at  esoltas@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Clive Crook at   ccrook5@bloomberg.net . 