-- France Orders Inquiry on Use of Undeclared Horse Meat
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2013-02-13T17:42:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-09/france-orders-inquiry-on-use-of-horse-meat-readies-legal-action.html
French Consumer Minister  Benoit Hamon 
said he ordered an inquiry into the use of horse meat in Findus
Group Ltd. products and that the government is ready to press
charges that could lead to imprisonment in the case.  So far the inquiry has determined that the supplier of a
Luxembourg factory was Spanghero SAS, which bought frozen meat
from a Cypriot trader, who had sub-contracted the order to a
trader in the Netherlands, Hamon said in an e-mailed statement.
The Dutch trader bought the meat from Romania.  “The operation was run above all on financial logic that
brought in more than 300,000 euros ($400,650),” Hamon said.  The French government plans to prosecute if necessary under
laws that can lead to half the profits being confiscated, or, in
the case of fraud, lead to two years in prison and 37,500 euros
in fines, Hamon said. The results of the inquiry will be made
available by the middle of next week.  The French action comes after the  U.K. Food Standards
Agency  gave food makers a week to test all their beef products
after a range of lasagnas produced by Findus Group Ltd. was
found to contain more than 60 percent horse meat.  The agency also said it involved the police in the U.K. and
Europe as evidence of horse meat in burgers and lasagna “points
to either gross negligence or deliberate contamination in the
food chain,” according to a  statement  on its website today.  U.K. supermarkets including  Tesco Plc , Wal-Mart Stores
Inc.’s Asda and Aldi have removed some ranges of frozen beef
burgers from their shelves in the past month as concern has
escalated over tainted meat. Tesco last week dropped one of its
suppliers after the discovery of horse DNA in some products.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net  