-- German Bonds Advance as Draghi Says ECB Can Remain Accomm
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2013-02-09T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-09/german-bonds-advance-as-draghi-says-ecb-can-remain-accomm.html
German government bonds advanced this
week, with 10-year yields dropping the most this year, after
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  signaled that
further interest-rate cuts remain a possibility.  The yield on Germany’s  two-year  notes fell the most in two
months. Italian bonds declined for a second week as former
Premier  Silvio Berlusconi , who opposes the current government’s
reforms, narrowed front-runner  Pier Luigi Bersani ’s lead before
this month’s elections. Spanish securities dropped for a fourth
week as Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  faced calls to resign amid
contested corruption allegations.  “Draghi made it clear that they are still accommodative,”
said  Karsten Linowsky , a fixed-income strategist at Credit
Suisse Group AG in Zurich. “We still have some uncertainty
about the events in Italy, and also with what’s going on in
Spain. When you have a bit more uncertainty, you see spreads
widen again and bunds benefit.”  German 10-year yields fell six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 1.61 percent at 5 p.m. London time
yesterday, the biggest decline since the period ended Dec. 28.
The rate dropped to 1.58 percent, the least since Jan. 25. The
1.5 percent security due in February 2023 gained 0.575 or 5.75
euros per 1,000-euro ($1,337) face amount, to 98.995.  Two-year note yields slid seven basis points to 0.18
percent, the biggest drop since Dec. 7.  Draghi Comments  Inflation risks in the euro region are contained and the
risk to economic growth in the 17-nation bloc remains to the
“downside,” Draghi said in Frankfurt on Feb. 7. He was
speaking after ECB policy makers kept the central bank’s main
 refinancing rate  at a record-low 0.75 percent.  Berlusconi, who is appealing a four-year sentence for tax
fraud, reduced Bersani’s lead to within the margin of error of
an opinion poll before the Feb. 24-25 elections for the first
time on Feb. 6, according to a tracking poll by Tecne institute
for SkyTG24. Bersani led by 14 percentage points on Jan. 2.  Rajoy’s assurances that allegations he accepted illegal
payments are false failed to contain criticism, with opposition
leader  Alfredo Perez Rubalcaba  saying Feb. 3 that he should step
down to restore faith in the nation’s political class.  Italian  10-year yields climbed 22 basis points to 4.55
percent this week, while the rate on similar-maturity Spanish
bonds increased 16 basis points to 5.36 percent.  A report next week will show the euro-region  economy  shrank
0.4 percent in the three months through December, the third
straight quarter of contraction, according to the median
estimate of 28 analysts in a Bloomberg News survey. The data is
released on Feb. 14.  Germany is due to sell 5 billion euros of two-year notes on
Feb. 13, while the Netherlands and Italy are also scheduled to
auction debt next week.  German bonds handed investors a loss of 1.3 percent this
year through Feb. 7, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg
and the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.
Spanish debt returned 0.9 percent and Italian securities gained
0.4 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Goodman in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  