-- Germany Focusing on Southeast Asia for Growth, Westerwelle Says
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2013-02-09T06:56:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-09/germany-focusing-on-southeast-asia-for-growth-westerwelle-says.html
Germany plans to expand its economy
through free trade as it seeks more collaboration with Southeast
Asian nations, the country’s Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle 
said in Singapore today.  “There is a strategic, political decision in the German
government to intensify, strengthen our collaboration or
cooperation with these new centers of power in Southeast Asia,”
Westerwelle told reporters. “German engineering is well known.
Our credibility in the area of economy is well known. This is
what we can offer.”  Germany’s economy has slowed as the European debt crisis
damps export sales within the euro area, prompting its companies
to target faster-growing markets in Asia. Growth in the world’s
fourth-largest economy slowed to 0.7 percent last year from 3
percent in 2011, the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said
Jan. 15 in a preliminary estimate.  “We cannot create new growth with debts,” Westerwelle
said as he met with Singapore Foreign Minister  K. Shanmugam  in
the latest stop of his Southeast Asian tour. “This will not
work. It will destabilize economies in the world. The best
alternative is free trade.”  Rising Investment  Southeast Asia’s economies have proved resilient to the
2008 financial crisis and ensuing global slowdown, with domestic
consumption and rising investment looking set to propel growth
over the next few years, the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development said in November.  The Paris-based organization forecast that Indonesian gross
domestic product will increase by an average of 6.4 percent from
2013 through 2017, while Thailand will expand by 5.1 percent and
the Philippines by 5.5 percent.  Germany accounts for 20 percent of Singapore’s trade with
the European Union, with more than 1,300 German companies
located in the city-state, Shanmugam said.  “We in Singapore are optimistic about Europe,” he said.
“We believe the current problems will be overcome. It’s just a
question of time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  