-- Gillard Wins Refugee Help in New Zealand as Poll Support Slumps
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y   a n d   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-02-09T01:37:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-09/gillard-wins-refugee-help-in-new-zealand-as-poll-support-slumps.html
New Zealand’s government agreed to
resettle asylum seekers who reached Australia, helping Prime
Minister  Julia Gillard  as she bids to increase her country’s
refugee intake and prepares for elections this year.  As part of an annual intake of 750 refugees worldwide, New
Zealand will accept 150 asylum seekers from Australia, Prime
Minister  John Key  said today at a televised joint press
conference in Queenstown, New Zealand. Gillard said the
agreement will start in 2014.  “Both countries are committed to a regional approach to
counter people smuggling,” Key said. “Australia is grappling
with a huge challenge.”  Gillard, whose Labor party trails the opposition coalition
in polls before the Sept. 14 election, wants to increase
Australia’s annual refugee intake to 20,000 from about 13,700.
Opposition Leader  Tony Abbott  has pledged to strengthen border
controls, stop boats loaded with asylum seekers, and reverse
Gillard’s increased quota.  While asylum seekers have been arriving by boat in
Australia since the Vietnam War in the 1970s, the issue became
more politicized about a decade ago when then-Prime Minister
John Howard’s Liberal-National government detained refugees,
including children, in offshore processing camps or in detention
centers in remote areas.  At least 1,000 asylum seekers, often from war-torn Middle
Eastern and South Asian nations, are known to have drowned in
the waters between Indonesia and Australia since 2001.  Opinion Poll  Backing for Gillard’s ruling Labor party fell 5 percentage
points to 44 percent on a two-party preferred basis, with
Abbott’s Liberal-National coalition surging 5 points to 56
percent, according to the most recent Newspoll survey, published
in the Australian newspaper on Feb. 4.  Support ebbed after a former Labor lawmaker was arrested
over 150 fraud charges and two cabinet ministers resigned. In
New South Wales, the most populous state, an anti-corruption
inquiry has heard allegations that another ex-Labor lawmaker
earned millions of dollars from illegal property deals.  The 150 people assigned to New Zealand each year could come
from asylum seekers already in Australia, Gillard said. Further
agreements would be needed to send refugees processed offshore
at centers such as the South Pacific island of Nauru, she said.  “This is a regional problem, it’s not just one nation’s
problem,” Gillard said. “The more you cooperate the better.”  Australia shares intelligence on people smugglers with New
Zealand and today’s offer to accept refugees was partly in
exchange for that help, Key said. Some asylum seekers originally
headed for New Zealand have been taken by Australia, he said.  Australia received 15,441 asylum applications in 2011,
compared with 60,587 in the U.S. and 43,759 for Sweden,
according to the Refugee Council of Australia. While the
political debate is focused on so-called boat people, 6,316
people seeking asylum in 2010-11 arrived in Australia by air,
compared with 5,175 by boat, the council says.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Scott in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  