-- India Hangs Azfal Guru Convicted Over 2001 Parliament Attack
-- B y   T u s h a r   D h a r a
-- 2013-02-09T06:50:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-09/india-hangs-azfal-guru-convicted-over-2001-parliament-attack.html
India today hanged Mohammad Afzal
Guru, convicted by an Indian court for his role in the December
2001 attack on parliament, after a mercy petition was rejected,
Home Minister  Sushil Kumar Shinde  said.  Guru was executed at 8 a.m. local time at the Tihar Jail
after President  Pranab Mukherjee  rejected the petition on Feb.
3, Shinde told reporters in New Delhi today.  Authorities have tightened security in Jammu & Kashmir
state, the Himalayan province to which Guru belonged, Chief
Minister  Omar Abdullah  said in televised remarks. The hanging
comes less than three months after Pakistani militant Mohammed
Ajmal Kasab, the only gunman caught alive in the 2008 terrorist
attack on Mumbai, was executed.  “By hanging Mohammed Ajmal Kasab and Afzal Guru in
succession the government wants to give a strong message that
they are committed in handling terrorism issues,” said Sanjay
Kumar, a New Delhi-based analyst at the Centre for the Study of
Developing Societies. “There is a need to be cautious” now on
internal security in Kashmir and other parts of the country.  Twelve people were killed in the Dec. 13, 2001, attack on
the Indian parliament. Four of the five attackers were killed by
security forces and one killed himself. India blamed Pakistan
for backing the attack. Pakistan denied any role.  Waging War  Guru was the only person sentenced to death for the attack
on parliament and the Supreme Court in 2006 upheld the sentence
against the Kashmiri for committing terrorist acts and waging
war against the state. Two other accused in the case were
acquitted and the sentence of a third, Shaukat Hussain Guru, was
reduced to 10 years in jail from a death sentence awarded by a
lower court.  Afzal’s family, human rights groups and Kashmiri activists
had protested the verdict, which they said was not based on a
“transparent” investigation. The groups said Afzal wasn’t
“properly represented” during the trial.  The main opposition Bharatiya Janata Party had been
demanding the execution of Guru without delay, saying any mercy
to him would encourage separatist groups.  India and Pakistan have fought two of their three wars over
Kashmir, which has been claimed by both since independence from
British rule in 1947. Indian Foreign Minister  Salman Khurshid 
last month said Pakistan’s failure to investigate the killing of
Indian troops in Kashmir meant an end to “business as usual.”
Some of the most serious cross-border skirmishes in a decade
between the nuclear-armed neighbors have undermined a sustained
bid to improve bilateral trade and ease travel restrictions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tushar Dhara in New Delhi at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  