-- NASA Rover Drills Martian Rock, Looks for More Clues to Wet Past
-- B y   D a n   H a r t
-- 2013-02-09T19:34:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-09/nasa-rover-drills-martian-rock-looks-for-more-clues-to-wet-past.html
The  Curiosity  rover became the first-
ever robot probe to drill into Martian rock as it collected a
sample that may reveal further clues about a wet environment in
the planet’s past.  The hole, which measures 0.63 inches (1.6 centimeters) wide
and 2.5 inches deep, was visible in images and other data sent
back to Earth today by Curiosity, NASA said in a statement. The
rover will use lab instruments to analyze rock powder collected
by the drill, NASA said.  Controllers at the U.S. National Aeronautics and Space
Administration will issue commands to have Curiosity’s robotic
arm process the sample for analysis. Some of the rock powder
will also be used to scour traces of material deposited on the
rover’s hardware before it left Earth, NASA said.  Curiosity arrived on Mars in August after a 352 million-
mile (563 million-kilometer) journey and a subsequent plunge
through the planet’s atmosphere that was dubbed “7 Minutes of
Terror.” Scientists behind the $2.5 billion  mission  are trying
to determine if Mars once had an environment capable of
sustaining life.  Starting in 1976, Viking landers sent by NASA to Mars found
geological features such as river valleys, grooves carved into
rock and stream networks that typically form from large amounts
of water and suggested that rain may have once fallen there.  The Spirit and Opportunity rovers that preceded
Curiosity have demonstrated water flowed on the surface and
soaked the ground. Spirit and Opportunity also measured minerals
in rocks and soils.  Curiosity was launched from Cape Canaveral in Florida on
Nov. 26, 2011.  For Related News and Information:
More stories on the Curiosity rover:  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Hart  in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at   swier@bloomberg.net  