-- Former Cowboys’ Defensive Coordinator Rob Ryan Joins Saints
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-02-10T05:00:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-09/nfl-saints-hire-former-cowboys-defensive-coordinator-rob-ryan.html
The New Orleans Saints hired former
Dallas Cowboys’ defensive coordinator  Rob Ryan  to follow  Steve Spagnuolo  who was fired last month after the team ranked 32nd in
total defense in the National Football League.  Ryan was fired by the Cowboys on Jan. 8 by owner  Jerry Jones  who said the team needed to undergo changes after
finishing the season 8-8 and missing the playoffs.  The Saints also hired  Stan Kwan  as assistant special teams
coach. He spent the last three seasons with the Buffalo Bills.  “In regards to Rob, we have experience in preparing and
playing against his defense and they’ve always been challenging
in terms of the different looks and pressures that they
feature,” said coach  Sean Payton  in a statement yesterday.  Under Spagnuolo, the Saints allowed 440.1 yards per game,
an NFL single-season record for yards allowed. New Orleans also
was last against the run allowing 147.6 yards per game and were
31st against the pass and in scoring defense.  Spagnuolo was fired by Payton after the coach was
reinstated following a season-long suspension in connection with
the club’s bounty program.  “I have had the opportunity to get to know Sean Payton and
his staff a bit better recently and I am excited about joining
the team,” Ryan said.  Ryan, 50, a nine-year veteran as a defensive coordinator,
spent the past two seasons with the Cowboys whose defense
improved to 14th overall in 2011 after finishing 23rd in 2010.  Kwan, 45, who has been an NFL assistant for 22 years, comes
from the Bills, who ranked first last season in punt return
average with two touchdowns and were fourth-best in the league
in kick-off return average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nancy Kercheval  in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  