-- NRC Probing Edison Unit’s Documents on Nuclear Plant
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-02-09T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-09/nrc-probing-edison-unit-s-documents-on-nuclear-plant.html
The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory
Commission is investigating information that an  Edison
International  unit provided to the agency about two shuttered
reactors at the company’s San Onofre plant in California.  The probe, which began Sept. 28, is looking into the
“completeness and accuracy” of information from Southern
California Edison regarding steam generators at the plant,
agency Chairman  Allison Macfarlane  said yesterday in a letter to
Senator  Barbara Boxer , a California Democrat. Boxer’s office
released the letter.  “This investigation is a critical factor in determining
whether it is safe to restart the San Onofre reactor’s Units 2
and 3,” Boxer said in a statement.  The San Onofre plant’s two reactors have been out of
service since January 2012, after investigators found unusual
wear on steam generator tubes. Boxer, chairman of the Senate’s
environment and public works committee, and Representative
 Edward Markey  of Massachusetts, the top Democrat on the House’s
natural resources panel, have said the plant should stay closed
until the NRC ensures that it can operate safely.  The lawmakers asked Macfarlane on Feb. 6 to investigate
whether the utility and the supplier of the tubes, Tokyo-based
 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. , knew about problems with the
equipment’s design before it was installed. They cited a
Mitsubishi report that has not been publicly released.  Macfarlane said in her letter yesterday that the NRC is
also examining the report.  Southern California Edison “takes very seriously all
requests from the NRC related to the operation of the station,”
 Jennifer Manfre , a company spokeswoman, said in a statement.
“The plant has provided voluminous records, data information
and other accurate reports as requested in the months since the
plant was safely shut down.”  Manfre said the Rosemead, California-based company “will
continue to provide any and all relevant, factual material
requested by the NRC and provide any clarifications necessary.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  