-- Monte Paschi Not in Talks to Restructure Deals, CEO Viola Says
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2013-02-09T16:31:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-09/monte-paschi-not-in-talks-to-restructure-deals-ceo-viola-says.html
Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA 
isn’t in talks to renegotiate derivative deals, dubbed Santorini
and Alexandria, which contributed to a 730 million-euro ($975
million) hit to its assets.  “We are not in talks with the counter-parties to
restructure Alexandria and Santorini,” Chief Executive Officer
 Fabrizio Viola  told reporters in Bergamo, Italy today. “So far
we haven’t taken any decision; we will evaluate what to do.”  Viola and Chairman  Alessandro Profumo  are seeking to revive
profitability and restore investors’ confidence amid allegations
former management hid losses related to three derivative
transactions, labeled Alexandria, Santorini and Nota Italia. The
lender said Feb. 7 that the impact of Santorini will be 305.2
million euros, while Alexandria will bring losses of 272.5
million euros and Nota Italia of 151.7 million euros.  Monte Paschi has declined 17 percent in Milan trading since
Bloomberg News first published details of the Santorini
transaction on Jan. 17.  Monte Paschi has restructured only the Nota Italia deal so
far, removing risk related to Italian government bonds. The bank
paid 139 million euros to restructure the transaction on Jan.
23.  As for Santorini and Alexandria, “the cost of closing
would probably be prohibitive for the bank,” said  Alessandro Frigerio , a fund manager at RMJ Sgr in Milan. “Considering that
those transactions are under probe, Monte Paschi may have some
incentive to wait for the results of the investigation so it may
have more bargaining power.”  Siena prosecutors are probing the bank to see whether
crimes were committed by former executives related to market
manipulation, false accounting, obstruction of regulatory
activity related to the acquisition of Banca Antonveneta SpA and
fraud tied to derivatives trades, people familiar with the
situation have said.  Profumo reiterated today that he rules out the existence of
any more transactions that disguise previous losses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sonia Sirletti  in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  