-- Southampton Beats Manchester City 3-1 in English Premier League
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-02-09T20:07:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-09/tottenham-beats-newcastle-to-extend-premier-league-unbeaten-run.html
Southampton beat Manchester City 3-1,
damaging the defending English Premier League soccer champion’s
title chances, while Chelsea won to take pressure off manager
 Rafael Benitez .  Scores from Jason Puncheon and Steven Davis and an own goal
by  Gareth Barry  gave new Southampton manager Mauricio
Ponchettino his first victory.  “I think that was our best performance,” Southampton’s
Rickie Lambert told ESPN. “I’m over the moon because we got
three points. That’s what I was looking for today.”  Ramires,  Eden Hazard ,  Frank Lampard  and  Marko Marin  scored
as Chelsea beat Wigan 4-1 for its second win in seven matches in
all competitions.  Tottenham beat Newcastle 2-1 to extend its unbeaten run in
the league to 10 games, 10-man Arsenal held on for a 1-0 win at
Sunderland, Swansea defeated Queen’s Park Rangers 4-1, Stoke
beat Reading 2-1, while Fulham and Norwich finished goalless.  Manchester City’s loss gives Manchester United a chance to
increase its lead at the top of the standings to 12 points by
beating Everton at home tomorrow.  “I think now it’s 10 percent,” City manager  Roberto Mancini  said of his team’s title chances. “I think now it’s
really difficult.”  Southampton, which had one loss and two draws since
Ponchettino replaced the fired  Nigel Adkins  on Jan. 18, went in
front in the seventh minute as Puncheon put in the rebound after
his shot was blocked by  Yaya Toure .  Increased Lead  The Saints increased their lead 15 minutes later as City
goalkeeper  Joe Hart  dropped Lambert’s shot and Davis poked the
ball into the net.  Edin Dzeko  scored for City in the 39th minute but
Southampton once again went two goals up early in the second
half as Barry, trying to direct the ball back to Hart, put it
into the net for an own goal.  Chelsea’s recent poor run increased the heat on interim
manager Benitez, whom the Sun reported today faced being fired
if the Blues lost to Wigan, which is 18th in the 20-team league.  Ramires gave Chelsea the lead midway through the first half
at Stamford Bridge in west London with a shot into the top right
corner. Hazard, in his first game back from a three-match ban
after kicking at a ball-boy during a League Cup match last
month, then scored early in the second half.  Wigan struck back just two minutes later as  Shaun Maloney 
put a shot past onrushing goalkeeper  Petr Cech . Lampard scored
his 198th goal, moving him within four of Bobby Tambling’s club
record, in the 86th minute and Marin clinched the victory in
stoppage time.  Bale scored with a free kick in the fifth minute to give
Tottenham the early lead at White Hart Lane in north London.
Newcastle then tied the game in the 24th minute as a Yoan
Gouffran shot deflected off defender  Michael Dawson  and past
goalkeeper Hugo Lloris.  Loose Ball  Bale put the Spurs back in front with 12 minutes left as he
picked up a loose ball and went in alone to fire a shot past  Tim Krul  for his team-best 13th league goal of the season. The win
keeps Tottenham four points ahead of Arsenal in the race for
fourth place and the final qualifying spot in the Champions
League.  Arsenal moved above Everton into fifth place with its win
at Sunderland as  Santi Cazorla  scored in the 35th minute. Carl
Jenkinson was sent off for the Gunners for a second yellow card
in the 63rd minute and goalkeeper Wojciech Szczesny made late
saves against  Steven Fletcher  and Adam Johnson to preserve the
victory.  Miguel Michu  scored twice, ending a seven-game goalless
run, as Swansea routed last placed QPR. Michu now has 15 goals,
the third-most in the league.  Robert Huth  and Cameron Jerome scored in the second half as
Stoke beat Reading for its first win in seven games, while
Norwich is now winless in nine games after a home draw with
Fulham.  West Ham is at Aston Villa in tomorrow’s other match and
Liverpool hosts West Brom in two days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net  