-- Pound Gains Most in 2 Years Versus Euro After Carney
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2013-02-09T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-09/pound-gains-most-in-2-years-versus-euro-after-carney.html
The pound had its biggest weekly gain
since 2011 versus the euro amid speculation the Bank of England
will refrain from extending stimulus, while its European
counterpart may cut interest rates further.  Sterling rose against all but one of its 16 major
counterparts this week after Bank of England Governor-designate
 Mark Carney  suggested current monetary policy may be sufficient
to support the economy even as he stands ready to add more
stimulus if needed. European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi 
said the recent appreciation of the euro could damp inflation.
Gilts were little changed.  “The market had expected Carney to be very dovish based on
his previous comments, but he made it clear he thinks the
current Bank of England’s policy stance is appropriate,” said
 Lee Hardman , a currency strategist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi
UFJ Ltd. in London. “The rally in sterling is driven by people
scaling back their expectations of further stimulus.”  The pound rose 2.7 from last week to 84.61 pence per euro
yesterday, the steepest weekly gain since the period ended Jan.
7, 2011. It climbed 0.7 percent to $1.5808, the biggest advance
since Dec. 14.  While Carney said “slack in the economy” warrants
sustaining aid, he focused less on whether that would mean
further asset purchases and more on how to use communications to
secure cheaper market borrowing costs and encourage greater
spending by households and businesses.  BOE Decision  Bank of England policy makers left the benchmark interest
rate at a  record-low  0.5 percent on Feb. 7 and held the asset-
purchase  target  at 375 billion pounds, as predicted by all
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The 10-year gilt yield was little changed over the week at
2.10 percent. It rose to 2.17 percent on Feb. 4, the highest
since April 20. The price of the 1.75 percent bond due September
2022 was at 97.  U.K. inflation held at 2.7 percent in January, the fastest
rate since May, according to the median forecast of 26 analysts
in a Bloomberg survey. The Office for National Statistics will
publish the data on Feb. 12.  The yield difference, or  spread , between 10-year gilts and
similar-maturity bunds widened six basis points to 49 basis
points. That’s the biggest increase since the five-day period
ending Jan. 4. The spread was at 10 basis points on Aug. 6.  Gilts handed investors a loss of 2 percent this year
through Feb. 7, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and
the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. German
bunds dropped 1.3 percent and Treasuries fell 0.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  