-- Snedeker, Potter Share Lead Going Into 3rd Round at Pebble Beach
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-02-09T06:14:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-09/snedeker-potter-share-lead-going-into-3rd-round-at-pebble-beach.html
Brandt Snedeker  and Ted Potter share
the lead yesterday at 8-under par 134 going into the third round
of the Pebble Beach National Pro-Am.  Snedeker fired a 4-under 68 at Spyglass Hills, while Potter
carded a 3-under 67 on Shore Court at Monterey Peninsula Country
Club. Both played the back nine first in their second rounds.  Snedeker recorded birdies on the 12th and 14th holes to
move to 6-under. He then made 10 consecutive pars before
birdying the seventh and eighth to move into a share of the lead.  “I didn’t make a lot of putts today, but look forward to
going into the weekend  as  my confidence is very high,”
Snedeker told reporters. “After last week, I feel like my game
is where I want it to be and two good days to go, should be a
lot of fun  Potter eagled the par-5 10th at Monterey to start his round
and then had back-to-back bogeys at 14 and 15. He carded birdies
on the sixth and seventh and made pars on his final two holes to
share the lead.  Hunter Mahan  shot a 1-under 69 at Monterey to share third
place at 7-under with  Fredrik Jacobson ,  John Merrick  and Patrick
Reed.  Defending champion  Phil Mickelson  is tied for 39th at 2-
under after shooting a 1-under 71 at Spyglass yesterday. He had
three birdies over five holes on his opening nine, then bogeyed
three of four holes around the turn.  The cut will take place after the third round and will only
be the low 60 and ties along with the top 25 amateur teams.  San Francisco 49ers coach  Jim Harbaugh , coming off a loss
to the Baltimore Ravens in the Super Bowl, is leading the pro-am
part of the tournament. Harbaugh is partnered with  Jason Day  of
Australia, who scored a 68 yesterday at Spyglass Hill to stand
two shots off the lead.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nancy Kercheval  in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  