-- Consumers May Face More Bad Meat News, Paterson Says
-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 2013-02-13T17:35:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-09/u-k-consumers-may-face-more-bad-news-over-meat-paterson-says.html
U.K. Environment Secretary  Owen Paterson  said there “may well be more bad news” for U.K.
consumers as products are tested following reports by some
supermarkets that horse meat was found in packaged meals meant
to contain beef.  Paterson said he hoped further testing being conducted by
the Food Standards Agency would bring “meaningful results” by
Feb. 15. He spoke today after talks in London with the agency,
suppliers and retailers.  The FSA has given foodmakers a week to test all their beef
products after a range of lasagnas produced by Findus Group Ltd.
was found to contain more than 60 percent horse meat.
Supermarkets including  Tesco Plc ,  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. ’s Asda
and Aldi have removed some ranges of frozen beef burgers from
their shelves in the past month as concern has escalated over
tainted meat.  “The government has got to get a grip on this situation,”
 Ed Miliband , leader of the U.K.’s opposition Labour Party, said
in a statement. “It’s got to get the government-run testing
done as quickly as possible so we can provide reassurance to
people.”  Retailers are ultimately responsible for the contents of
the products they sell, Paterson said in an interview with Sky
News today. “We hope we will get to the bottom of this problem
as rapidly as possible and find how extensive it is.”  French Probe  Aldi has recalled Today’s Special Frozen Beef Lasagne and
Today’s Special Frozen Spaghetti Bolognese after finding horse
meat in some samples, the FSA said on its  website  today.  Findus apologized to consumers in a statement on its
 website  and in U.K. newspapers. The company said that while
horse meat was present in some of its lasagna products it didn’t
believe it posed a health risk to consumers. Findus said it
withdrew the beef lasagna on Feb. 4 while it investigated the
product and that tests confirmed the presence of horse meat two
days later.  French Consumer Minister  Benoit Hamon  said he ordered an
inquiry into the use of horse meat in Findus products and that
the government is ready to press charges that could lead to
imprisonment in the case.  The supplier of a Luxembourg factory was Spanghero SAS,
which bought frozen meat from a Cypriot trader, who had sub-
contracted the order to a trader in the Netherlands, Hamon said
in an e-mailed statement today. The Dutch trader bought the meat
from Romania.  The FSA said Feb. 8 that it had ordered all food businesses
to test their processed beef products and is conducting its own
survey of beef products, including those supplied to schools and
hospitals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  