-- ‘Hunger Games’ to Fuel $400 Million Profit for Lion Gate
-- B y   R o b   G o l u m
-- 2013-11-22T21:23:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/-hunger-games-to-fuel-400-million-profit-for-lion-gate.html
“The Hunger Games: Catching Fire,”
the film sequel about teens fighting to the death in a
totalitarian world, is set to dominate cinemas for three weeks
and earn $400 million or more for  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF)   The movie, with  Jennifer Lawrence  returning as heroine
Katniss Everdeen and  Josh Hutcherson  as her co-combatant Peeta
Mellark, opens in theaters worldwide today and is forecast to
take in $166 million domestically this weekend, according to
BoxOffice.com. That would give Lions Gate one of the top five
debuts ever, based on rankings from Box Office Mojo.  Lions Gate could earn more than $400 million from
“Catching Fire” over several years through its share of ticket
sales, DVDs,  pay television  and free TV, according to  Benjamin Mogil , an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. The film’s futuristic
setting, the appeal of the young characters and a story about
rebellion against an oppressive government should attract a wide
swath of movie fans.  “When you look at the tracking, it’s for everyone,” said
Greg Foster, senior executive vice president of  Imax Corp. (IMX) ,
which will show the film on all of its 650-plus screens for
three weeks, including almost 350 in the U.S. and  Canada . The
film is opening in a total of 4,163 North American locations,
according to  Rentrak Corp. (RENT) , including screenings last night.  “Catching Fire” underscores Lions Gate’s dependence on
blockbuster movie franchises, particularly since the last of
five “Twilight” teen-vampire films concluded its cinema run.
The shares have more than doubled this year, after gaining 97
percent in 2012.  Teen Rebellion  The movie grossed $25.3 million in early screenings last
night, the company said. An opening of $166 million would put
“Catching Fire” fourth on the weekend  all-time list  behind
“Marvel’s The Avengers,” “Iron Man 3” and “ Harry Potter  and
the Deathly Hallows Part 2,” the current No. 3 at $169.2
million, according to Box Office Mojo. (See table below)  “Catching Fire,” based on the Suzanne Collins novel,
garnered an 89 percent favorable rating on  RottenTomatoes.com ,
which aggregates critics’ reviews. The film picks up where “The
Hunger Games” left off, with Everdeen and Mellark touring the
fictional nation of Panem after winning the 74th Hunger Games.  They inadvertently become symbols of rebellion and are
forced to compete again, this time against more deadly foes --
former winners like themselves. Donald Sutherland again stars as
President Snow, and Woody Harrelson and Stanley Tucci return in
supporting roles. Lawrence, 23, won the best-actress Oscar this
year for “Silver Linings Playbook.”  Lions Gate  declined to comment, according to Peter Wilkes,
a spokesman.  Profit Forecast  Tickets sales for “Catching Fire” in the U.S. and Canada
could amount to $425 million over the full theatrical run, said
Mogil, who  recommends  buying shares of the  Santa Monica ,
California-based studio. He estimated the production cost at
about $90 million, including any tax subsidies, and said his
multiyear profit estimate for the picture excludes provisions
for corporate expenses or taxes along the way.  The first film, released in March 2012, generated $408
million in domestic ticket sales, according to Box Office Mojo,
an industry researcher.  More revenue from Imax theaters will contribute to sales of
the 146-minute picture as some fans choose the exhibitor’s
higher-priced, big-screen format over conventional cinemas,
Mogil said. At Fandango.com, the online sales service, tickets
for Imax shows at the AMC Century City 15 in  Los Angeles  are
$19, compared with $14 for a typical screen. The service said
advance sales are the highest for any picture this year.  Imax Factor  “The attendance hasn’t really changed, the average ticket
price hasn’t changed, but you’ll move some people from 2-D to 2-D Imax,” Mogil said.  Director  Francis Lawrence  used Imax cameras for a number of
shots, including arena sequences, and the scenes will expand
vertically in the specially equipped theaters in what Foster
called “an amped up version you can’t get anywhere else.”  “Catching Fire” may lead the box office for three weeks,
including Thanksgiving weekend, until “The Hobbit” sequel
opens on Dec. 13, according to Phil Contrino, chief analyst for
researcher BoxOffice.com.  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  is releasing two films: “Delivery Man”
this weekend, a Vince Vaughn comedy from DreamWorks Studios, and
“Frozen,” an animated feature going into wide release on Nov.
27. Strong word of mouth for “Frozen” could lead to an upset,
Contrino said.  Facebook ‘Likes’  Social media and Internet buzz are also giving “Catching
Fire” a boost. “Likes” at Facebook.com amounted to 11.6
million earlier this week, Contrino said, compared with around
2.9 million for the first film. At Twitter.com, tweets were
running 12 to 1 positive over negative, he said.  The movie’s best prospect for growth is outside the U.S.,
where sequels tend to do better, according to Mogil. Foreign
sales may be as much as $450 million, he said. The first film
generated $283.2 million internationally, or 41 percent of the
total, according to Box Office Mojo.  “This has a chance of getting to 50-50, foreign box office
equal to U.S. box office,” said Matt Harrigan, an analyst at
Wunderlich Securities Inc. in Denver who also recommends buying
Lions Gate. “It will do as least as well as the first one in
the U.S. and materially better overseas.”  Hedging Costs  The studio is spending generously to promote “Catching
Fire,” according to Harrigan, who estimated the marketing
budget at close to the film’s production cost.  Lions Gate is known for hedging its risks on high-cost
pictures by selling foreign rights in advance, as it did with
“The Hunger Games” and more recently “Ender’s Game.” With
“Catching Fire,” the studio has terms that provide for more
generous returns.  “The international deals are better,” Mogil said.  Lions Gate rose 3.7 percent to $33.76 at the close in  New
York . The company’s TV division produces “Mad Men” and
“Orange Is the New Black,” the women’s prison series on
 Netflix Inc. (NFLX)   A third movie from “The Hunger Games” will be in theaters
next November and the fourth a year later, according to Box
Office Mojo.  Next year, Lions Gate releases “Divergent,” mining a
similar vein with a young female character challenging an
authoritarian leader. The picture, scheduled to open in March,
is based on the novel by Veronica Roth. It features Shailene
Woodley, who garnered favorable notices in “The Descendants,”
and  Kate Winslet .  “I would be shocked if it did as well as ‘The Hunger
Games,’” Harrigan said. “Everyone realizes how difficult this
franchise is to replicate. Management will be first to tell you
that is too high a bar.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Golum in Los Angeles at 
 rgolum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  