-- AB Science Shares Plunge as EU Panel Fails to Back Cancer Drug
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2013-11-22T12:46:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/ab-science-shares-plunge-as-eu-panel-fails-to-back-cancer-drug.html
AB Science SA (AB)  failed to win backing
from a European Union advisory panel for masitinib to treat
intestinal tract cancers, a setback in its plan to expand use of
a medicine currently applied only on dogs. The shares plunged.  Masitinib was rejected by the  European Medicines Agency ’s
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use to treat
gastrointestinal stromal tumors that are resistant to first-line
treatments, the Paris-based company said in a statement late
yesterday. AB Science said it will appeal the decision. The
European Commission, the EU’s executive arm, usually follows the
panel’s recommendation.  “AB Science will continue to work with the CHMP to respond
to the pending concerns to reach positive consensus and obtain
conditional approval” of the medicine, the French company said.
The appeal should lead the CHMP to deliver a second opinion in
2014, it added.  AB Science shares lost as much as 31 percent today, the
steepest intraday decline since the company’s initial public
offering in April 2010. The stock was trading at 16.31 euros,
down 14 percent, as of 1:10 p.m. in Paris.  Masitinib targets mast cells, which help govern immunity,
and kinases, a type of enzyme that plays a role in the growth of
cancerous cells. The company, led by Chief Executive Officer
Alain Moussy, has said the medicine shows promise in other types
of cancer as well as asthma and multiple sclerosis.  Digestive System  Gastrointestinal stromal tumors, also known as GIST, are
cancers of the digestive system that affect 15 new patients per
one million each year, according to AB Science. The company has
also filed for EU approval of masitinib as a treatment for
pancreatic cancer.  AB Science, which was founded in 2001, sold shares to the
public in an initial public offering in 2010. As of yesterday’s
close, the stock had climbed 50 percent since the IPO.  Moussy is an engineer by education. He previously had a
role at consulting firm  Booz, Allen & Hamilton  and was head of
corporate development at  Carrefour SA (CA) ,  France ’s biggest
retailer.  Masitinib is also being tested in rheumatoid arthritis,
multiple sclerosis and asthma.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Geneva at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  