-- Thai Baht, Bonds Headed for Weekly Declines on Political Concern
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2013-11-22T02:32:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/thai-baht-bonds-headed-for-weekly-declines-on-political-concern.html
Thailand’s baht headed for a fourth
weekly loss and sovereign bonds dropped amid concern political
unrest will further damp economic growth.  The currency fell to a two-month low and 10-year yields
reached the highest level since September on speculation the
 Federal Reserve  is moving closer to reducing stimulus that’s
spurred inflows to  emerging markets . Thailand’s  Constitutional
Court  ruled this week against the government’s attempt to
establish a fully elected Senate. The opposition plans to hold a
protest this weekend, Suthep Thaugsuban, a former deputy prime
minister of the Democrat Party, said yesterday.  “Sentiment for the baht and Thai assets is weak due to the
political uncertainty,” said  Koji Fukaya , chief executive
officer and currency strategist at FPG Securities Co. in  Tokyo .
“Speculation Fed tapering will come sooner rather than later is
negative for emerging markets.”  The baht depreciated 0.7 percent from a week ago to 31.82
per dollar as of 9:21 a.m. in Bangkok, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The currency, which was little changed
today, touched 31.85 earlier, the weakest level since Sept. 17.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the  exchange rate  used to price options, fell four basis
points, or 0.04 percentage point, this week and today to 5.83
percent.  Thailand’s National Anti-Corruption Commission will set up
a committee to investigate petitions to remove House speaker
Somsak Kiatsuranont and Senate speaker Nikom Wairatpanij, NACC
member Prasart Pongsivapai said yesterday. The government cut
its 2013 expansion forecast on Nov. 18 to 3 percent from a range
of 3.8 percent to 4.3 percent projected in August.  The U.S. central bank’s $85 billion of monthly bond
purchases might be reduced as the world’s largest economy
improves, minutes of the policy-setting Federal Open Market
Committee’s Oct. 29-30 meeting showed this week.  The yield on  Thailand ’s 3.625 percent bonds due June 2023
climbed 17 basis points from Nov. 15 to a two-month high of 4.22
percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The rate was unchanged
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  