-- Taiwan Dollar Completes Fifth Weekly Loss as Fed Spurs Outflows
-- B y   J u s t i n a   L e e
-- 2013-11-22T09:02:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/taiwan-dollar-forwards-set-for-fourth-weekly-loss-on-fed-concern.html
Taiwan’s dollar fell for a fifth
week, its longest run of losses in 17 months, as global funds
sold local stocks amid signs the U.S. is preparing to cut
stimulus that’s buoyed  emerging markets .  Government bonds  rose.  Overseas investors sold $768 million more Taiwanese stocks
than they bought this week, exchange data show. Minutes of the
 Federal Open Market Committee ’s Oct. 29-30 meeting released this
week showed policy makers said bond buying may be cut in the
“coming months” as the world’s largest economy improves. The
Bloomberg  Dollar Index , which tracks the greenback against 10
major peers, advanced 0.4 percent since Nov. 15.  “The strength of the U.S. dollar and fund outflows from
Taiwan are putting some pressure on the local currency,” said
Cindy Yu, a Taipei-based economist at Fubon Commercial Bank Co.
“After the U.S. government shutdown dragged down the economic
outlook, there’s been a turnaround in expectations as tapering
in December now seems possible.”  Taiwan ’s dollar weakened 0.1 percent this week to NT$29.645
against the greenback, prices from Taipei Forex Inc. show. The
currency was little changed today, having slipped 0.2 percent in
the final 13 minutes of trading amid suspected intervention. The
monetary authority has sold the local dollar in the run-up to
the close on most days since March 2012, according to traders
who asked not to be identified.  Forwards, Volatility  One-month non-deliverable forwards on the  Taiwan dollar 
declined 0.1 percent this week to NT$29.515 per dollar,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The contracts were
little changed today.  One-month implied volatility in the Taiwan dollar, a gauge
of expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options,
decreased nine basis points this week to 3.17 percent.  Initial jobless claims in the U.S. fell to 323,000 in the
week ended Nov. 16 from a revised 344,000 the previous week,
official data showed yesterday. The median forecast of 47
economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a drop to 335,000.  The yield on Taiwan’s 1.25 percent government bonds due
October 2018 fell three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point,
this week and two basis points today to 1.095 percent, according
to Gretai Securities Market. That’s the lowest since Oct. 31.  Taiwan’s economic performance has been below expectations
this year and the government will strengthen economic
liberalization, President Ma Ying-jeou said at a briefing today.
The central bank will hold its policy rate unchanged until the
second quarter next year, according to a Bloomberg survey of
economists.  “As a rate hike is unlikely in the near term, shorter
bonds have been popular as a reflection of economic
fundamentals,” said Baker Tu, a bond trader at Capital
Securities Corp. in Taipei. “Conversely, holders of longer
bonds are more conservative.”  The  difference  between yields on five- and 10-year bonds
climbed to 64 basis points today, the widest since August 2004.  The  overnight interbank lending rate  was little changed
today and this week at 0.388 percent, a weighted average
compiled by the Taiwan Interbank Money Center showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justina Lee in  Hong Kong  at 
 jlee1489@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  