-- TalkTalk Says BT Cost Customers as Soccer Season Began
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-11-22T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/talktalk-says-bt-cost-customers-as-soccer-season-began.html
TalkTalk Telecom Group Plc (TALK)  Chief
Executive Officer Dido Harding said the British broadband
provider lost users to  BT Group Plc (BT/A) ’s new sports channels at the
start of this soccer season a few months ago.  Customers “began to believe the PR that you get BT Sport
for free,” Harding said at an investor conference in Barcelona
today. BT offers its sports channels at no extra charge when
users sign up for broadband service. The defections didn’t
continue as “the truth is you don’t save money,” Harding said.  BT’s broadband, phone and TV packages start at 15 pounds
($24) a month plus a 15.45-pound “line rental” fee and include
the BT Sport channels. London-based TalkTalk’s packages start at
7.50 pounds a month plus a 15.40 line rental fee.  After signing up more than 2 million customers to its
three-month-old sports channels, BT said Nov. 9 it agreed to pay
$1.4 billion for exclusive live broadcast rights to the  UEFA ’s
Champions League and Europa League soccer games. BT’s bid
trumped  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  for the rights, which
helped make BSkyB the biggest pay-TV company in the U.K.  When asked if TalkTalk would be interested in owning
similar content rights, Harding said “categorically not.”  “We are a value-for-money provider,” Harding said. “The
more our competitors spend ever larger sums on content, the
happier we are to be in another part of the market.”  TalkTalk  shares  have advanced 16 percent this year through
yesterday. They fell 12 percent on May 9, the day that BT’s
sports plan was unveiled. BT, also based in London, has gained
64 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in Barcelona at
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  