-- Baucus Plan Slows Capital Write-Offs With Companies Wary
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-11-22T15:28:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/manfacturers-wary-of-baucus-proposal-to-slow-deductions.html
Oil companies, manufacturers,
advertisers and real estate investors warned that a proposal
from Senate Finance Chairman  Max Baucus  to slow down deductions
for capital assets could raise the cost of investment.  Baucus’s draft proposal attempts to match the speed of
deductions for assets with their economic lives, rather than
letting companies write off investments faster. The Montana
Democrat would use the plan’s proceeds -- about $700 billion
over a decade -- to finance a cut in the corporate  tax rate .  “There’s kind of been this unspecific” effort to roll
back tax breaks that’s been paired with lawmakers’ promise of
rate cuts, said  Donald Marron , a former economic adviser to
President  George W. Bush  and acting director of the
 Congressional Budget Office . “Now the rolling back of tax
breaks is becoming more tangible,” he said.  Baucus released three  discussion drafts  this week as he
seeks to build momentum for the biggest changes to the U.S.  tax
code  since 1986.  Whether he and his House counterpart, Representative  Dave Camp , can succeed is far from clear. Camp, a Michigan Republican
who is chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, and
Baucus have been stalled in their efforts by a partisan divide
over whether the federal government should collect more revenue
as part of the changes.  Corporate Rate  Baucus has said he wants to reduce the corporate tax rate
to less than 30 percent from the current 35 percent. The rate
cut and depreciation changes are intended to make the effective
tax rates of companies more equal, taking breaks away from those
who now benefit and lowering the rate for everyone else.  Capital-intensive companies such as  Deere & Co. (DE)  probably
would be hurt and companies profiting from past investments such
as  Visa Inc. (V)  would benefit.  Even with prospects for a tax-code revamp appearing dim,
business lobbyists are analyzing the proposals closely and
trying to build opposition to items that may resurface.  Dan Jaffe, group executive vice president of the
Association of National Advertisers, opposes the part of
Baucus’s plan that would require companies to deduct half of
their advertising expenses immediately and the rest over five
years. Currently, such expenses are immediately deductible.  ‘Shot Down’  “This part of the draft needs to be shot down as quickly
as possible,” said Jaffe, whose group’s members include  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Kellogg Co. (K)  “Anybody who is not taking
these proposals extremely seriously is not only misguided but is
putting their head in the sand.”  The real effect on companies won’t be clear until Baucus
releases a complete draft and specifies a tax rate. Accelerated
depreciation is one of the largest corporate tax breaks, making
it an obvious target in a rate-for-breaks tradeoff, said  Douglas Holtz-Eakin , president of the American Action Forum, a small-government group.  “If you look at where you’ve got to go, there is a short
list of items that can be used as base broadeners to finance
other purposes, and this is one of them,” said Holtz-Eakin, a
former Congressional Budget Office director.  Currently, companies’ capital assets are depreciated for
tax purposes under a system that assigns an expected life to
each asset and sets a schedule for how quickly companies can
take deductions.  The changed system, modeled in part on rules in Canada,
would group assets into four pools designed to better reflect
the assets’ economic life.  Real Property  Within each pool, companies could deduct a set percentage
of the value each year -- 38 percent, 18 percent, 12 percent and
5 percent. Real property would be depreciable over 43 years.  “It is a huge change for manufacturers and one we’re going
to have to take a very close look at,” said Dorothy Coleman,
vice president of tax and domestic economic policy at the
National Association of Manufacturers, a Washington-based trade
group whose members include  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  and Pfizer Inc.
“It does raise concerns and red flags in some respects, but
it’s a process.”  For public companies concerned about investors’ reaction,
the depreciation change combined with a corporate rate cut would
cause an immediate one-time boost to earnings. That’s because,
for financial statement purposes, changes in timing of  tax
deductions  don’t affect earnings.  Reduce Value  The corporate rate cut would reduce the value of deferred
tax assets, lowering earnings. It would have the opposite effect
on deferred tax losses, so the financial statement effect for
any company would depend on its circumstances.  Marron, now director of economic policy initiatives at the
Urban Institute, said the effect on any particular company will
be determined by its mix of assets and investments. Companies
profiting from past investments that are already deducted might
fare best, he said.  “You’re going to win from a rate cut and not care as much
about investment being more expensive,” he said.  The Baucus proposal would repeal last-in, first-out
accounting, adopting an administration proposal opposed by
wholesalers and oil and gas companies.  Like advertising expenses, costs related to extracting
natural resources and conducting business research would be
deducted over five years, instead of immediately.  If the revisions were to become law, they would make the
tax code more efficient and less distortive, said  Calvin
Johnson , a law professor at the University of Texas in Austin.  ‘Cuts Loopholes’  “The legislative process inevitably cuts loopholes into
the tax base that will both increase the harm that tax does and
will get congressmen re-elected,” he said.  The  American Petroleum Institute , whose members include
 Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and  Parker Hannifin Corp. (PH) , released a statement
criticizing the plan.  Senator  John Cornyn , a Texas Republican, also faulted
Baucus’s plan.  “Our nation is in serious need of comprehensive  tax
reform ,” Cornyn said in a statement.  “Instead, what we’re
seeing from Senate Democrats is a plan that targets oil and gas
producers -- the very sectors our nation relies on for economic
growth.”  Real estate investments could be affected by the repeal of
the “like-kind” rules that allow tax-free exchanges of similar
assets. Other changes in Baucus’s plan on foreign investment in
real estate would be beneficial, Jeff DeBoer, president and
chief executive officer of the Real Estate Roundtable, said in a
statement.  “These tax reform proposals could greatly affect property
values, economic activity, and the liquidity of investments, and
could have broad unintended consequences,” DeBoer said.  For small businesses, Baucus’s proposal would make it
easier to use cash accounting and expense $1 million in capital
purchases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  