-- Apple Juror Credits Witness for Outmatching Samsung
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-11-22T07:10:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/apple-juror-credits-witness-for-outmatching-samsung.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  won more than $290
million from  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  in a do-over damages trial
by relying on the same tactics it used in a 2012 victory -- and
a witness who jurors said tipped the balance in Apple’s favor.  The federal jury of six women and two men, after a week-long trial in  San Jose ,  California , yesterday restored most of
the amount cut from a $1.05 billion verdict in favor of the
iPhone maker last year over copying of technology used in
smartphones.  Apple used the same lead lawyers, arguments, and witnesses
for this trial as it did last year, with the exception of a new
damages expert to replace a witness who died. Jurors said after
the verdict that the new expert,  Julie L. Davis , a Chicago-based
certified public accountant, provided clear evidence they could
use to arrive at their damages sum and was unflappable on the
stand.  “Ms. Davis was on it,” jury forewoman Colleen Allen, a
former U.S. military medic who served a tour in  Afghanistan  and
now runs a mobile blood-collecting business, said in an
interview. Davis was a “superstar witness” who remained steady
“even when she was cross-examined,” Allen said.  U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh cut $410.5 million from the
first verdict in March after finding it was flawed because
jurors miscalculated the period that the infringement occurred
for 13 Samsung devices. In the retrial, Apple sought to restore
$380 million of the amount cut, while Samsung recommended that
the jury award $52 million.  Global Battle  The world’s top two smartphone makers have spent hundreds
of millions of dollars in legal fees on claims of copying each
other’s features in a global battle to dominate the market.
Apple, which initiated the legal fight in 2011, had 13 percent
market share in the third quarter of this year, while Samsung
had 31 percent, according to IDC, a research firm based in
Framingham,  Massachusetts .  Apple rose 1.2 percent to $521.14 yesterday in trading in
 New York . Samsung  gained  0.7 percent to 1.45 million won at the
close of trade in  Seoul .  “The negative sentiment was all factored in when Apple won
$1.05 billion against Samsung last year.” said Lee Seung Woo,
an analyst at IBK Securities Co. “The Samsung-Apple patent
issue has been going on for some time, I don’t expect the
verdict will have an impact on sales of Samsung products or on
the company’s brand image.”  Fifth-Largest  On its own, yesterday’s verdict is the fifth-largest jury
award in the U.S. in 2013, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It’s the largest jury award this year in a patent
case. Total damages owed by Samsung now stand at $930 million.  Lauren Restuccia, a spokeswoman for Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung, said the company is disappointed with the
verdict, “which is based in large part on a patent that the
U.S. Patent and  Trademark Office  has recently deemed invalid.”  “While we move forward with our post-trial motions and
appeals, we will continue to innovate,” Restuccia said in an e-mail.  The verdict includes a breakdown for damages for the 13
Samsung devices covered by the retrial, including almost $100
million for Samsung’s Infuse 4G. None of the devices covered by
the trial are currently sold by Samsung.  ‘Butted Heads’  Allen, the forewoman, said jurors “butted heads” on $178
million that Samsung argued should be subtracted from profits of
more than $230 million that the companies agreed was
attributable to the infringing products.  Davis argued “absolutely none of it should come out,”
Allen said, referring to the $178 million, and Samsung didn’t
provide sufficient evidence to rebut Apple’s expert, to make its
case that the entire amount should be deducted for its operating
costs. Jurors agreed to take the “middle of the road” and cut
half of that amount, Allen said.  Another juror, Barry Goldman-Hall, concurred that Davis’s
testimony was key when asked about decisive evidence presented
at trial.  “For most of us it was  Julie Davis ,” he said in an
interview. “She offered us a lot of information” to determine
how much of the $178 million and what royalties should be
awarded to Apple, he said. Samsung attempted, and failed, to
block Goldman-Hall from being seated on the panel after he
disclosed during jury selection that his cousin’s employment
with Samsung ended “under bad circumstances.”  Juror’s Cousin  The cousin “didn’t have a favorable opinion of Samsung,
and I heard a lot from him about that,” Goldman-Hall told the
court. Goldman-Hall, a mental health therapist, said he was a
“shoulder to cry on, a good listener” for his cousin, and felt
like “he was treated very poorly.”  Koh rejected Samsung’s request to remove Goldman-Hall from
the jury, telling lawyers that he said he would be fair and that
“Samsung would not be behind because of his cousin’s
experience.”  In closing arguments, Apple lawyer Bill Lee of WilmerHale,
employing a tactic from the 2012 trial, urged jurors to focus on
documents that he said revealed Samsung’s motive for copying,
including a Samsung executive’s e-mail lamenting that the
company was experiencing a “crisis of design” due to
competition from the iPhone.  ‘Emotional’ Argument  Bill Price  of Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan LLP, an
attorney for Samsung, told jurors to resist Apple’s
“emotional” argument. In his opening and closing arguments,
Price argued Apple sought a “windfall” of damages based on its
attempt to patent “beautiful and sexy,” when in fact the
patents at issue are “very narrow.”  While Koh rejected Apple’s bid after the 2012 verdict for a
U.S. sales ban on infringing Samsung devices, a federal appeals
court on Nov. 18 cleared the way for the iPhone maker to pursue
an injunction targeting some of its rival’s products.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit in
 Washington  said that Apple can tailor its request to focus on
infringement of patents covering smartphone features, such as
multitouch technology, that were at issue in the 2012 trial. The
company can’t block Samsung products for infringing patented
designs, according to the opinion.  The jury’s damages verdict yesterday concludes the first
U.S. patent-infringement trial between the two companies.
Another trial is scheduled to go before Koh in March. That case
covers technology in newer smartphones, including Apple’s iPhone
5 and Samsung’s Galaxy S III.  “For Apple, this case has always been about more than
patents and money,”  Kristin Huguet , a spokesman for Cupertino,
California-based Apple, said by phone interview after the
verdict. “It has been about innovation and the hard work that
goes into inventing products that people love. While it’s
impossible to put a price tag on those values, we are grateful
to the jury for showing Samsung that copying has a cost.”  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  