-- Argentina Targets Luxury Goods to Slow Drain of Dollar Reserves
-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l   a n d   S i l v i a   M a r t i n e z
-- 2013-11-22T14:52:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/argentina-targets-luxury-goods-to-slow-drain-of-dollar-reserves.html
Argentina ’s government wants people
to pay more for luxury goods including cars, yachts and planes
as imports drag down  international reserves  to their lowest in
about seven years.  The government will send a bill to lawmakers today
proposing an increase in taxes for luxury imports, Cabinet chief
Jorge Capitanich told reporters in Buenos Aires. The proposal is
intended to discourage consumption of the goods to free up more
money for imports that will improve domestic output, he said.  “This project has to do with creating hindrances for those
who want to acquire luxury goods,” Capitanich said. “They’ll
have to pay more. That’s the goal.”  The South American nation’s dollar reserves have  plunged  27
percent this year to $31.7 billion as the government uses the
funds to pay dollar debt and import energy while Argentines
boost spending abroad. Sales of luxury cars are rising, with
purchases of Tata Motors Ltd.’s Land Rover brand jumping 170
percent from a year earlier, according to the car dealer
association.  Luxury car sales have risen as Argentines take advantage of
a widening gap in the official rate and a black market to buy
vehicles at discounts. By selling dollars at the black market
rate of about 9.9 pesos per dollar to pay for cars imported at
the official rate of 6.06, consumers reap discounts of as much
as 40 percent.  In a bid to slow demand for luxury cars, the nation’s
money-laundering watchdog published a decree Nov. 11 that
requires Argentines to justify purchases of vehicles costing
more than 350,000 pesos ($57,769) by providing details including
tax returns and bank account information.  “We’re going to promote an increase in the supply of
reserves, the rational use of them and push for more
predictability and macro-economic stability,” said Capitanich,
who was sworn in as Cabinet chief this week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Cancel in  Buenos Aires  at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net ;
Silvia Martinez in Buenos Aires at 
 smartinez19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  