-- Ariad Shares Soar on European Regulators’ Recommendation
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-11-22T21:07:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/ariad-shares-soar-on-european-regulators-recommendation.html
Ariad Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ARIA)  rose the
most in more than four years after European regulators allowed
the company to continue selling its leukemia drug, which is
suspended in the U.S. because of the treatment’s risks.  Ariad climbed 36 percent to $3.78 at the close in New York,
the biggest single-day increase since July 2009.  The shares had plunged 44 percent on Oct. 31 after the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration suspended sales pending a review.
The agency found about 24 percent of patients using the drug in
a trial had heart attacks, strokes and other serious vascular
events. The European Medicines Agency today recommended patients
with a history of heart attack or stroke stop using Iclusig
unless the benefits outweigh the dangers and that possible new
users be assessed for cardiovascular risks, Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based Ariad said today in a statement.  “We have been working closely with the EMA to provide
updated clinical-trial data on patients treated with Iclusig,”
Jonathan Dickinson, general manager of Ariad in Europe, said in
the statement.  The European regulators also recommended patients be
monitored and that Iclusig be stopped if a user’s hypertension
isn’t under control. The EMA plans to further review the
benefits and risks of Iclusig and may make additional
recommendations, Ariad said.  Iclusig is Ariad’s only product and was approved in July in
Europe and last year in the U.S. for two rare blood cancers. The
treatment is expected to generate revenue of $52 million next
year, according to the average of nine analysts’  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  In the U.S., the medicine was approved based on an
accelerated process that relied on a single trial showing it
helped patients. Companies that gain accelerated approval must
conduct additional research to prove the medicine is effective.
Those further results for Iclusig showed the increased safety
risks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  