-- Tarullo Backs More Capital for Firms Relying on Repo Funds
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2013-11-22T21:24:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/tarullo-backs-more-capital-for-firms-relying-on-repo-funding.html
Federal Reserve Governor  Daniel Tarullo  urged regulators to set market-wide minimums for safety
margins on loans backed by securities and favored high capital
requirements for banks that rely heavily on non-deposit funding.  The  remarks  are Tarullo’s most prescriptive to date on how
to deal with more than $1 trillion in non-deposit funding used
by banks and brokers that regulators are concerned is still
vulnerable to runs by investors in a market panic.  Regulators must “alter the environment that can lead to
short-term wholesale funding runs in order to create a stable
financial system,” Tarullo said today in a  speech  at the
 Economic Policy Institute  in  Washington . “Completion of this
task will require a more comprehensive set of measures, at least
some of which must cover” non-bank financial institutions.  Tarullo’s suggestion the government set prices on so-called
haircuts on repurchase agreements was met with skepticism by
some bankers who said that it would constitute a form of price-fixing, reducing competition and distorting markets.  “The Fed should tread very carefully,” said  Carl Lantz ,
head of interest-rate strategy at Credit Suisse Securities in
 New York . “It is hard to see where a regulator would have a
significant informational advantage” over banks on pricing such
transactions.  Capital Charges  Tarullo indicated he favored a regime of higher capital
charges for banks that use securities financing transactions,
which include repurchase agreements. In a repo, an investor or
financial firm posts securities as collateral against a loan.
The transaction usually reverses the next day, or several days
later.  “The idea that seems most promising is to tie capital and
liquidity standards together by requiring higher levels of
capital for large firms that substantially rely on short-term
wholesale funding,” Tarullo said.  The capital requirement would be calculated by a reference
to a definition of short-term wholesale funding, such as total
liabilities minus regulatory capital, insured deposits, and
obligations “with a remaining maturity of greater than a
specified term,” he said. Regulators could also weight the
capital charges by taking account of the unique risks of
different forms of funding.  With short-term funding and collateralized lending also
occurring outside the regulated banking system, there is a need
for “policy options in the form of regulatory tools that can be
applied on a market-wide basis,” Tarullo said.  Transaction Types  Such regulation would focus on “particular kinds of
transactions, rather than just the nature of the firm engaging
in the transactions,” he said.  One strategy would be applying “numerical floors” on the
safety margins or “haircuts” dealers demand for loans backed
by securities, he said. Typically, dealers loan less than one-for-one against securities, imposing a “haircut” depending on
the quality of the asset.  Tarullo identified three approaches to calculating the
floors. The levels could be based on current haircuts in the
repurchase-agreement market.  “These haircuts have increased significantly compared to
pre-crisis levels,” Tarullo said. “Establishing numerical
floors at around current levels could prevent the return of a
less prudent set of practices as memories of the crisis fade.”  A second approach could base haircuts on asset-price
volatility during times of stress, he said. A third could be
calculated on the basis of the capital a bank would need to hold
against the security if it were held in inventory.  Existing Laws  The Fed needs to clarify whether it could use existing laws
to make rules on margining outside of the banking system,
Tarullo said.  “We do have margin setting authority under the Securities
and Exchange Act of 1934 but that is not a plenary authority,
it’s not an untrammeled one, it’s one that’s got some limits,”
he said in a response to an audience question. “So that’s
obviously one of the questions we’ll all have to address going
forward as we develop these options.”  Shadow banking, including money-market funds and off-balance sheet investment vehicles, grew $5 trillion last year to
about $71 trillion, the Financial Stability Board, a global
financial policy group based in  Basel ,  Switzerland , said last
week.  Supervisors consider shadow banking to include off-balance
sheet transactions as well as activities that give investors an
opportunity to bypass lenders and the functions they
traditionally fulfill on the markets. A hedge fund, for example,
could in effect get loans against its securities from a non-bank
broker.  Central Bankers  Such activities grew by $41 trillion between 2002 and 2011,
the FSB, which is made up of regulators and central bankers,
said in a report last year.  During the financial crisis, short-term funding markets
dried up for securitized mortgage pools, forcing banks to bring
them back on their balance sheets. As mortgage defaults rose,
even some banks and financial institutions had difficulty
finding adequate financing for their assets.  Regulators are concerned that some of this financing, which
takes the form of  repurchase agreements  or short-term commercial
paper, could be subject to runs by investors in another market
extreme market shock.  Tarullo in a speech last year called managing the risk of
short-term funding markets “the most important remaining task
of financial regulatory reform.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  