-- Mauritania Holds Legislative Ballot Boycotted by Opposition
-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 2013-11-22T13:24:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/mauritania-holds-legislative-vote-boycotted-by-opposition-party.html
Mauritania  will hold its first
legislative and municipal elections since 2006 tomorrow that
most opposition parties are boycotting because they believe the
vote won’t be fair.  President Mohamed Ould Abdel Aziz’s Union for the Republic
is expected to win a majority of seats because of the boycott by
the Coordination of Democratic Opposition. There are 438
candidates competing for 147 seats in the national assembly,
while more than 1,000 candidates are taking part in the
municipal vote, the independent electoral commission said.  The opposition Rainbow party rejects the election because
it says a majority of black Mauritanians don’t have voter cards.
Police used tear gas to disperse protesters at the office of the
electoral commission this week, according to the news website
Noorinfo.com.  Abdel Aziz led a 2008 military coup that ousted President
Sidi Ould Cheikh Abdallahi a year after he was voted into office
in elections international observers said were fair. Donors
lifted sanctions following 2009 presidential vote won by Abdel
Aziz. Mauritania’s population is estimated at 3.8 million.  Desert Locusts  Africa’s second-biggest iron-ore exporter is vulnerable to
political instability, according to the  World Bank . More than
100,000 refugees who fled fighting in neighboring  Mali  are
living in Mauritania, according to the  United Nations Refugee
Agency . Mauritania’s food supply is also at risk because of
desert locusts that are grouping there, the UN’s Food &
Agriculture Organization said Nov. 20.  “Lingering questions about the legitimacy of past
elections, domestic social tensions, and the rebellion in
northern Mali all combine to create a high degree of political
risk,” the  World Bank  said on its website.  Mauritania receives about 70 million euros ($94 million)
from the European Union a year in return for fishing rights in
its coastal waters that contain one of the world’s most
important fish reserves.  State-owned Societe Nationale Industrielle et Miniere said
last month it had discovered new iron-ore reserves estimated at
830 million tons.  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  plans to drill for offshore oil
reserves in Mauritania this year, while other companies
including  Kosmos Energy Ltd. (KOS)  are carrying out seismic surveys.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pauline Bax in Accra at 
 pbax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  