-- Aussie Set to Match Longest Weekly Drop in 7 Years on RBA Threat
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2013-11-22T06:10:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/aussie-set-to-match-longest-weekly-drop-in-7-years-on-rba-threat.html
Australia ’s dollar dropped, poised
to match its longest run of weekly declines in seven years, amid
speculation the nation’s central bank will take steps to curb
currency strength.  The Aussie sank to a fresh five-year low against its New
Zealand counterpart after Reserve Bank of Australia Governor
Glenn Stevens said yesterday he remains “open-minded” on
currency intervention. The kiwi earlier strengthened as much as
0.5 percent against the U.S. currency even after Reserve Bank of
New Zealand Assistant Governor John McDermott said the local
dollar is overvalued. Two-year swap rates in the country climbed
to a two-year high on bets the RBNZ will raise borrowing costs.  “There is caution in the market that the RBA may cut rates
if the Aussie strengthens,” said  Daisaku Ueno , the chief
currency strategist at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities
Co. in  Tokyo . “Both the RBA and RBNZ are trying to talk down
the currencies, but the RBA has a bigger impact over the market,
so the kiwi is being bought unfortunately as a result of Aussie
selling.”  The Aussie fell 0.6 percent to 91.78 U.S. cents as of 4:58
p.m. in Sydney after touching 91.68, the lowest since Sept. 9.
It has lost 2 percent since Nov. 15, poised for a fifth weekly
drop and the largest such slide since August. There hasn’t been
a longer period of declines since the six weeks ended June 2006.  Australia’s dollar weakened 0.4 percent to NZ$1.1209 after
touching NZ$1.1171, the lowest since October 2008. The kiwi
retreated 0.2 percent to 81.89 U.S. cents, trimming its weekly
slide to 1.8 percent.  N.Z. Rates  New Zealand’s two-year swap rates climbed four basis
points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 3.65 percent, a level not
seen since August 2011. The RBNZ may start to raise the
benchmark rate from 2.5 percent by June next year, according to
economist estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  UBS AG lowered its forecasts for the Aussie, citing RBA
impatience with the currency’s strength and prospects the
Federal Reserve will taper bond buying that has tended to debase
the greenback. UBS said in a note to clients it projects the
Australian currency will decline to 90 cents in three months,
compared with an earlier expectation it would be at 93 cents by
then.  Foreign-exchange intervention can be effective as long as
it’s “judiciously used in the right circumstances,” the RBA’s
Stevens said in a speech in Sydney late yesterday.  Demand for the Aussie and kiwi was supported as Asian
stocks snapped a three-day decline. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index
of shares added 0.2 percent and was 2.1 percent from a five-year
high set in May.  “The Aussie is unlikely to fall much amid risk-on
sentiment,” Mitsubishi UFJ’s Ueno said.  The  yield  on Australia’s 10-year government note fell one
basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 4.32 percent, paring a
weekly advance to 12 basis points. It earlier reached 4.35
percent, the highest in two years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net  