-- Taylor, Jamison Outpace Commodity Hedge Funds Seeing Losses
-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r o w n
-- 2013-11-22T07:07:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/taylor-jamison-outpace-commodity-hedge-funds-suffering-losses.html
Commodity  hedge funds  run by George “Beau” Taylor and Stephen Jamison are posting gains this year
as peers lose money and investors.  The $860 million Taylor Woods Masters Fund advanced 18
percent from January through October, heading for the best year
since the February 2011 debut, according to a letter to clients
obtained by  Bloomberg News . Jamison’s $1.5 billion Koppenberg
Macro Commodity Fund Ltd. rose about 6 percent in the period,
according to two people with direct knowledge of the matter.  Commodity hedge funds on average lost 3.5 percent in the
first 10 months, while their assets dropped 10 percent to $76.6
billion as of Sept. 30 from February 2012 as raw material prices
head for the first annual loss in five years, according to
eVestment, which tracks 467 such funds. The group is the worst
performer within the industry this year after hedge funds
targeting  India , said Peter Laurelli, vice president for
research at the Atlanta-based researcher.  “There have been many strong moves in commodity markets
this year making it a surprise that funds targeting the segment
appear less than capable of capitalizing on them,” Laurelli
said. Many of the funds were hit by a “sharp decline” in crude
oil in October, he said.  About 313 funds investing in commodities have closed down
since the beginning of 2012 through this year to date, compared
with 500 of them that started in the period, according to data
compiled by Eurekahedge Pte.  ‘Lackluster Performance’  “The continued lackluster performance in 2013 as compared
to other strategies and the falling prices of commodities this
year would also weigh in on investors when considering their
allocation,” said Farhan Mumtaz, an analyst at the Singapore-based data provider.  Commodities as gauged by the S&P GSCI Index of 24 commodity
futures is heading for the first annual loss since 2008 this
year, as corn retreated more than 38 percent, gold futures
slumped 26 percent and  Brent crude  fell 1 percent. The index has
fallen 3.8 percent so far this year. Energy, metals and grains
dropped on signs of ample supplies and amid speculation that the
U.S. Federal Reserve will scale back stimulus.  West Texas Intermediate crude lost 5.8 percent last month
when the  discount  to Brent widened to as much as $13.09 a barrel
from less than $6 at the beginning of October. Rising
inventories at Cushing,  Oklahoma , depressed the New York-listed
benchmark. The Taylor Woods fund made money on its energy
investments, which accounted for about 83 percent of assets in
October, according to the letter to clients.  Taylor, Jamison  Taylor, who turns 43 this month, co-founded the fund with
Trevor Woods, his former colleague from Credit Suisse Group AG’s
global commodities team. The fund lost almost 5 percent in 2011,
and another 2.3 percent in 2012, according to the letter. Assets
exceeded $1 billion last year, according to a previous letter.
Blackstone Group LP, the world’s largest private-equity firm,
provided $150 million in initial capital to the fund.  Chief Operating Officer Bob Flicker at Greenwich,
Connecticut-based Taylor Woods Capital Management LLC declined
to comment on the latest performance.  Koppenberg, based in  New York  and named after a steep hill
in  Belgium  that is part of the Tour of Flanders cycling race,
advanced 2.7 percent in 2012, 8.15 percent in 2011 and 18.5
percent in 2010, according to the two people. It lost 7.6
percent from April to December 2009, the first trading year, the
people said.  Jamison, who spent 13 years with Morgan Stanley before
setting up the fund, declined to comment on the performance.  Red Kite  Some funds benefited from their investments in industrial
metals including copper.  Red Kite Group’s $280 million metals fund returned 30
percent to investors in the first 10 months while the $500
million Compass fund made 12 percent, according to a person with
direct knowledge of the matter. The Red Kite Prospect fund,
which manages $115 million, advanced 16 percent during the
period, the person said. The group had more than $2.3 billion
under management as of Aug. 31, according to its website.
Michael Farmer and David Lilley, both based in  London , are co-founders of the group.  Red Kite made profits in the year when copper futures are
poised to lose 11 percent, aluminum 14 percent and nickel 21
percent on the London Metal Exchange. Chief Financial Officer
Paul Coughlan declined to comment.  ’Super-Cycle’  Commodities tracked by the S&P GSCI Index rallied  every
year starting 2002  through last except in 2008, the period
during which crude prices more than quadrupled, copper increased
fivefold and gold’s value grew six times.  The “super-cycle” in commodity markets is over as demand
from developing nations has declined and supply has increased,
said Glenn Dubin, chairman of New York-based Highbridge Capital
Management LLC, which manages $29 billion in assets and is owned
by JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Prices have settled into a trading range after
“hyperbolic” market moves, Dubin said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television. Small investors aren’t investing
significantly in commodities, he said.  Not all commodity funds made money in October as crude
prices slumped. The $300-million energy-focused fund managed by
 Pierre Andurand  declined 5.8 percent last month, paring February
to October gains to 27 percent, according to two people with
direct knowledge of the matter. Sara Corsaro, head of marketing
and investor relations, declined to comment.  Frere Hall  Frere Hall Capital Management LLP, a hedge-fund firm
founded by former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. managing director
Taimur Hassan that started trading in July 2012, declined 22
percent in October, according to a person with direct knowledge
of the matter who asked not to be identified because the firm is
private. The fund, which managed $646 million at the end of
September, had gained 1.2 percent in the first nine months of
2013 after rising 9 percent last year, the person said.  Hassan didn’t return a phone call seeking comment on the
fund’s performance. Chief Operating Officer Damian Dwan declined
to comment.  Among the largest funds in the industry, Brevan Howard
Asset Management LLP’s $880 million commodity hedge fund
returned 1.8 percent in October, paring losses in the first 10
months to 3.3 percent, according to two people with direct
knowledge of the matter. The fund, managed by Geneva-based
Stephane Nicholas, started in 2010 with $200 million from the
parent company. Nicholas declined to comment.  The $968 million Armajaro Commodities Fund, managed by
London-based John Tilney, posted a 3 percent increase after a
remaining unchanged in October, according to two people with
direct knowledge of the numbers. An executive at Armajaro’s
office in London declined to comment, asking not to be named in
accordance with company policy.  “The managers who have done well have an understanding of
financial derivatives, supply and demand analysis, and physical
market knowledge,” said Gabriel Garcin, Paris-based  fund
manager  at Europanel Research and Alternative Asset Management.
“Most of the guys out there do not have the third one.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net ;
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  