-- Bangladesh Starts Inspecting Plants 7 Months After Rana Plaza
-- B y   A r u n   D e v n a t h
-- 2013-11-22T05:17:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/bangladesh-starts-inspecting-plants-7-months-after-rana-plaza.html
Bangladesh  engineers today start
their first full-fledged inspections of garment factories under
a government plan to improve safety, seven months after the
collapse of the Rana Plaza complex killed more than 1,000.  Thirty teams will initially begin by assessing 200 clothing
factories over eight weeks with plans to inspect 1,000 factories
on structural integrity, fire and electrical safety, according
to Mehedi Ahmed Ansary, a professor of the Bangladesh University
of Engineering and Technology. The government has sought the
help of the university for the checks.  The inspections begin as Bangladesh’s $20 billion garment
industry struggles to rebuild its image after the April deaths
at Rana Plaza, the country’s worst industrial disaster.
Officials have so far only conducted visual surveys and the
latest audits are the government’s first full-fledged assessment
of structural and fire safety, Labour Secretary Mikail Shipar
said by phone today.  “We had to sit with so many stakeholders in the garment
industry,” said Shipar. “Then we had to make sure the
standards are consistent with local laws and the national
building code. That’s why it took so long.”  In October, a fire at a garment factory on the outskirts of
the capital Dhaka killed at least seven, renewing safety
concerns.  Worker Protests  Two retailer groups that include companies such as  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB)  this week also agreed to
improve work safety inspection standards in the Asian country.  The inspections came after a meeting chaired by Shipar and
attended by factory owners, trade unions and government
agencies, according to the website of the International Labor
Organization, which will act as a facilitator.  The Alliance for Bangladesh Worker Safety, led by a group
of North American apparel companies such as Wal-Mart, and the
Accord on Fire and Building Safety, whose members include H&M,
were present at the meeting, the ILO said. The Alliance’s
members include J.C. Penney Co., Gap Inc., Target Corp. and
Macy’s Inc. The Accord has members including Inditex SA,
Carrefour SA and Marks & Spencer Group Plc.  A series of protests by workers demanding higher wages have
taken place in the past several months in the industrial zones
of Gazipur and Ashulia on the outskirts of the capital Dhaka.
Some workers clashed with the police in demonstrations, forcing
the shutdown of factories.  Two workers died and 30 others were injured in a protest
this week as thousands took to the streets demanding a higher
monthly salary of 8,000 taka ($103). The government last week
increased the  minimum wage  to 5,300 taka, below the amount
unions are demanding.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arun Devnath in Dhaka at 
 adevnath@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  