-- Bank of America Intern’s 5 A.M. E-Mail Before Death Worried Mom
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2013-11-23T01:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/bank-of-america-staff-quizzed-as-coroner-probes-intern-s-death.html
Bank of America Corp.  intern Moritz Erhardt worked day and night in the weeks before his death,
sending e-mails to his parents and colleagues in the early hours
of the morning.  The 21-year-old died of an epileptic seizure while taking a
shower on Aug. 15, a London coroner said after an inquest
yesterday. He never once complained about his workload,
Erhardt’s parents and co-workers said, even when staying up
until 5 a.m.  “It may be that Moritz had been working so hard that his
fatigue was a trigger for the seizure that killed him,” Coroner
Mary Hassell said at the inquest. “But that is only a
possibility.”  The plight of Erhardt prompted Bank of America to set up a
panel of senior managers to “review all aspects of this
tragedy,” the bank said following his death. Erhardt was found
unconscious at  Claredale House , a student residential facility
in East  London . He was pronounced dead at the scene at 8:34 p.m.
after being treated by paramedics.  “Moritz had a natural cause of death, though it’s not so
natural that a young man should die like this,” Hassell said.  Erhardt’s parents told the coroner that their son contacted
them the day before his death in a 5 a.m. e-mail.  “My wife noticed in his last week that he didn’t get
enough sleep,” Hans-Georg Dieterle, his father, said. “We
thought this might be a risk in terms of his epilepsy.”  An autopsy found that he was regularly taking medicine to
treat epilepsy.  Medical Form  Erhardt didn’t tell the bank about his condition, answering
“no” to questions about whether he suffered from seizures on a
medical form, according to Hassell, who read the document out in
court.  Jonathan Hough, a lawyer for the bank, asked the court to
make “no reference” to circumstances other than the primary
cause of death “including working practices” in the coroner’s
final verdict.  Erhardt’s mother bowed her head, almost touching the wooden
table in front of her, during Hough’s arguments.  “We continue to extend our heartfelt condolences and
sympathy to Moritz’s family,” the bank said in an e-mailed
statement. “Moritz Erhardt’s death was a tragedy that affected
and saddened everyone in our company and especially those who
had the privilege to spend time with him.”  Hassell questioned Erhardt’s development officer at the
bank’s Merrill Lynch unit about whether working late was
necessary in investment banking.  Peer Pressure  “It depends on deadlines,” said Juergen Schroeder, who
works in the corporate finance department. “Some of it is peer
pressure. There is a general expectation in our profession.”  Erhardt had been an exchange student at the University of
Michigan’s Stephen M. Ross School of Business and attended WHU -
- Otto Beisheim School of Management in Vallendar,  Germany ,
according to his biography page on social-network site
seelio.com.  “It’s not like anyone is forcing you to work,” Jana
Bakunina, who stayed at Claredale House as a Merrill Lynch
intern in 2001, said in a telephone interview. “It’s way more
subtle than that. The young people there just want to succeed.
It’s like a race track,” she said.  Clever Person  His father described Erhardt as “a very clever person, who
had a lot of joy in his life and connected to a lot of people.”  In addition to  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of
America’s investment-banking division, Erhardt also said he had
work experience at KPMG Consulting,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and Deutsche
Bank AG’s corporate finance division.  Erhardt went to high school at Faust-Gymnasium in Staufen,
Germany, where he excelled in math and tennis, according to the
biography page. His hobbies included sports and politics,
according to the profile.  His death brought a renewed focus to how hard interns and
other junior staff have to work in London’s financial center,
said Polly Courtney, who was an intern at Merrill Lynch in 2001
and is now an author.  “Being in the City is like being in a bubble,” said
Courtney, who wrote “Golden Handcuffs,” a 2007 novel about
London’s financial industry. “You throw yourself into it and
forget about the rest of the world.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  