-- Ackman Says Fannie, Freddie ‘Most Interesting’ Opportunity
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2013-11-22T20:00:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/bill-ackman-says-fannie-mae-is-most-interesting-opportunity.html
Activist  fund manager   Bill Ackman 
described his investment in mortgage giants  Fannie (FNMA)  Mae and
 Freddie Mac  as the most interesting since he acquired a stake in
General Growth Properties Inc. in 2008.  Ackman’s Pershing Square Capital Management LP said on Nov.
15 that it had bought a 9.98 percent stake in the common shares
of  Fannie Mae  that aren’t owned by the government, as well as a
9.77 percent stake in the Freddie Mac shares available to the
public. The firm may seek talks with shareholders, management
and the government, which owns almost 80 percent of the agencies
since bailing them out.  “Fannie Freddie is a little more dynamic situation where
the opportunity for profit is to make multiples of your money,
if you can come up with a solution to a problem that has vexed
Congress and the Treasury I think since the crisis,” Ackman
said in an interview today with Bloomberg Television’s  Stephanie Ruhle . “This is the most interesting investment I’ve seen since
my investment in  General Growth. (GGP) ”  The fund manager helped rescue General Growth from near-collapse by pushing it to file for bankruptcy in 2009, when he
also won a board seat. The effort “turned $60 million into $1.6
billion,” he told  Bloomberg News  in 2011.  No Berkowitz  Bruce Berkowitz ’s $10.5 billion mutual-fund firm, Fairholme
Capital Management LLC is proposing that it and other owners of
Freddie and Fannie preferred shares buy the mortgage insurance
business of the companies and leave common shareholders like
Ackman with stakes in the legacy business that would be wound
down.  President Barack Obama would reject proposals by  hedge
funds  to recapitalize Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, National
Economic Council Director  Gene Sperling  said this week, a view
that was repeated by Senator  Bob Corker  of Tennessee at a
hearing today.  Ackman, who doesn’t support Berkowitz’s plan, isn’t “yet
ready to really talk about what we have in mind,” he said today
after speaking at the Robin Hood Investors Conference in New
York, which is closed to the public.  Berkowitz and Ackman’s investments highlight how, in the
space of two years, Freddie and Fannie went from taxpayer
sinkholes to money makers that investment managers are fighting
to privatize. Seized by the government in 2008 in a $187.5
billion bailout, both companies returned to profit in 2012, when
Fannie Mae had record net income of $17.2 billion. Freddie Mac
earned $11 billion last year.  Howard Hughes  In his General Growth wager, Ackman paid $9.3 million for
20.1 million shares at an average of 46 cents each, according to
a filing at the time of his November 2008 purchase. General
Growth filed for Chapter 11 protection the following year after
weighing itself down with $27 billion in debt that it was unable
to refinance because of the financial crisis and collapse of the
commercial mortgage-backed securities market.  Berkowitz in 2010 joined Ackman and other investors
including Brookfield Asset Management Inc. in committing more
than $8 billion to bring the firm out of Chapter 11.  Ackman is also chairman of  Howard Hughes  Corp., the real
estate development company he spun off from General Growth,
which owns large tracts of land for housing throughout the U.S.
as well as the South Street Seaport in New York. Pershing Square
will probably own a stake in the company “forever,” he said.  Activist funds such as Pershing Square typically buy equity
stakes in companies and try to force management and directors to
make changes that boost share prices and investor returns.
Ackman’s $12 billion hedge-fund firm is known for detailed
research and concentrated investments.  Pershing Square this year successfully pushed for a shakeup
at Air Products & Chemicals Inc., and disclosed stakes in the
mortgage companies after two other high-profile bets lost money.
 Pershing Square  sold its stake in retailer J.C. Penney Co. for a
$500 million loss after unsuccessfully campaigning for another
CEO change, and has a paper loss on its bet that shares of
Herbalife Ltd., a weight-loss and nutritional supplement
company, will decline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  