-- Billionaire Fredriksen Sold TUI Travel to Raise TUI AG Stake
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-11-22T16:20:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/billionaire-fredriksen-sold-tui-travel-to-raise-tui-ag-stake.html
Norwegian billionaire  John Fredriksen  sold his stake in TUI Travel Plc to buy more stock in
parent company  TUI AG (TUI1) , handing TUI Travel shares their steepest
decline in two years.  The shift comes after TUI AG in January retreated from a
plan to combine with TUI Travel, in which it owns about a 54
percent stake, according to data compiled by Bloomberg,
succumbing to investor pressure to drop a share-based deal. TUI
Travel, created in 2007 from a merger of Hanover, Germany-based
TUI AG’s travel operations and First Choice Holidays Plc, is
 Europe ’s largest tour operator.  “We see Mr. Fredriksen increasing his stake as positive,”
Klaus Mangold, TUI AG’s chairman, said in an e-mailed statement.  TUI Travel shares fell as much as 7.6 percent to 359.90
pence in  London  today, suffering their biggest intraday decline
since Nov. 22, 2011. The stock was down 6.8 percent at 3:30 p.m.
local time, after gaining 38 percent this year through
yesterday. TUI AG shares gained 1.2 percent to 10.44 euros in
 Frankfurt .  Fredriksen’s Monteray Enterprises Ltd offered 60.1 million
TUI Travel ordinary shares, or 5.4 percent of the stock in an
accelerated bookbuild, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in a
statement yesterday. The offer price was 366 pence a share and
Monteray will acquire from Goldman Sachs 8 million shares of TUI
AG, or 3.2 percent of its share capital, for about 83 million
euros ($112 million), pushing its stake to above 20 percent,
according to Goldman Sachs.  Equity Value  A merger with  TUI Travel Plc (TT/) , isn’t “possible” because of
the equity value of the companies, with the stake in the U.K.
travel company worth more than the market capitalization of its
parent company, TUI AG Chief Executive Officer Friedrich Joussen
said on Sept. 26.  TUI AG has a market capitalization of 2.64 billion euros,
while its stake in TUI Travel is worth about 2.2 billion pounds,
or 2.6 billion euros, after the decline today.  “While this is not a material bear signal for TUI Travel,
the transaction suggests he sees limited immediate upside in the
TUI Travel share value,” James Hollins, an analyst with
Investec Securities in London said of Fredriksen in a note to
clients.  Fredriksen is TUI AG’s second-largest shareholder, owning
about 15 percent of the stock as of Sept. 30, according to data
collected by Bloomberg. The company’s largest shareholder,
Russian billionaire  Alexey Mordashov , owns 25 percent.  “It’s a difficult situation, and it’s a question of
valuation and synergies and so on,” Mordashov said in an
interview with Bloomberg television on Nov. 14, when asked if he
was pushing the two companies to merge. “Definitely there are
some pros and cons.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  