-- Biogen MS Drug Tecfidera Wins Additional European Protection
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2013-11-22T21:10:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/biogen-s-tecfidera-ms-drug-wins-additional-european-protection.html
Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB) ’s multiple
sclerosis drug Tecfidera won designation as a “new active
substance” in  Europe , giving it added protection against
generic copies and paving the way for approval there. The shares
rose the most in more than two years.  The designation gives Biogen an additional 10 years of
protection for Tecfidera, its pill for MS that’s projected to be
the company’s top-seller by 2015. The European Medicines
Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use posted
the decision on its  website  today, updating a previous opinion.  Tecfidera was cleared in the U.S. and recommended for
approval in Europe in March. Biogen had been in talks with
regulators on the status of the extra protection before seeking
final approval there, in an effort to hold off development of
copycats for as long as possible. Analysts  estimate  the drug
will draw $3.52 billion in revenue in 2016.  “The binary nature of this decision has been an overhang
to Biogen shares since late May,”  Eric Schmidt , an analyst with
Cowen & Co., wrote in a research note today. “With a global
launch of Tecfidera now likely, we expect Biogen to emerge as
the cleanest long-term growth story in biotech.”  Biogen, which will move into its new Cambridge,
Massachusetts, headquarters next week, rose 13 percent to
$285.62 at the close in New York, its biggest gain since April
2011. The stock has gained 95 percent this year.  Sanofi Pill  The EMA committee in June granted the new active substance
designation to a Sanofi MS pill called Aubagio, reversing an
earlier decision. Tecfidera’s main ingredient is dimethyl
fumarate, a substance also found in Fumaderm, an older medicine
used for psoriasis. Aubagio, also known as teriflunomide, has
some similarities to an earlier medicine, leflunomide,  Brian Abrahams , an analyst with  Wells Fargo (WFC) , wrote yesterday in a
research note.  Biogen also sells the MS drugs Avonex, an injection, and
Tysabri, an infusion.  Michael Yee , an analyst with  RBC Capital
Markets , said today he expects Tecfidera will be approved in
Europe by January and sold there starting in the first quarter
as Biogen obtains reimbursement for the medicine in each
country.  Approved in the U.S. in March, Tecfidera generated $286.4
million in third-quarter revenue, surpassing analysts’
estimates. About 35,000 patients are on the medicine, making it
the most-prescribed pill for relapsing-remitting MS, Tony Kingsley, Biogen’s head of commercial operations, said earlier
this month.  Sanofi’s Aubagio is also a pill, competing with Tecfidera
as well as Novartis AG’s Gilenya.  “We are ready to introduce Tecfidera in EU countries
shortly after anticipated approval,” Doug Williams, head of
Biogen’s research and development, said in a statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  