-- BlackRock Says JPMorgan Deal Undermining U.S. Market: Mortgages
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-11-22T13:58:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/blackrock-says-jpmorgan-deal-undermining-u-s-market-mortgages.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s (JPM)  record $13
billion deal to end mortgage bond probes has terms that
undermine U.S. efforts to reduce taxpayer support of the market,
according to BlackRock Inc., the world’s biggest money manager.  “ Washington  has a public policy goal of reducing the role
that the government plays in the housing-finance market, and at
the same time we now have a series of settlements where no
investors were at the table and where money toward the
settlements may come from investors’ pockets,” said Barbara Novick, vice chairman of BlackRock. “It discourages the
allocation of private capital to mortgage credit.”  JPMorgan struck the agreement this week to settle potential
state and federal civil claims of misrepresentations in
mortgage-bond sales by the lender and companies it acquired. The
largest  U.S. bank  can earn credit toward meeting $4 billion of
consumer relief required by the deal through reworking mortgages
owned by investors in the  securities , potentially harming
holders, according to Novick.  BlackRock (BLK) , which oversees $4.1 trillion, and other buyers
of  mortgage bonds  without government backing have criticized
multiple federal and local actions in the wake of the U.S.
housing crash as unfair to investors, saying they deter
participation in the $9.3 trillion home-mortgage  market .  ‘Best Interest’  With taxpayer-backed programs financing about 85 percent of
new home loans, issuance of non-agency bonds is about 1 percent
of the record level reached in 2005 and 2006. Sales of
commercial-mortgage securities have recovered to 34 percent of a
pre-crisis peak and loans to junk-rated companies are on pace to
exceed $1 trillion this year, more than during the boom years.  “Loan modifications will be done only if they are in the
best interest of the investor and in accordance with the bank’s
agreements with the investors,” said Adora Andy Jenkins,
 Justice Department  spokeswoman. “So when these modifications
are made, it’s because they’re good for investors, consumers and
 neighborhoods  across the country that are still recovering from
the financial crisis.”  BlackRock’s Novick said, “that’s hard for us as investors
to measure: We don’t get enough transparency into what’s going
on.”  Amy Bonitatibus , a spokeswoman for New York-based JPMorgan,
declined to comment.  Under the agreement, JPMorgan will receive partial credit
for steps it takes on loans serviced for others, according to a
 settlement document  on the Justice Department’s website. For
instance, the bank typically will get a 50 cent credit for each
dollar of principal reductions for homeowners whose debt it
doesn’t own. The bank gets 100 percent for loans it owns.  Lobbying Justice  The Association of Mortgage Investors was among groups that
lobbied the Justice Department to preclude the bank from getting
credit for loans owned by investors to help fulfill its
obligations, as occurred with 2012 agreements over foreclosure
practices involving JPMorgan and four other banks.  About 32 percent of credit granted to JPMorgan under the
earlier deal was tied to loans the bank serviced and didn’t
hold, according to a  court filing  last month by the monitor for
the settlement, which was sparked by allegations of “robo-signing.”  Graham Fisher & Co. analyst  Joshua Rosner  said that
allowing any consumer aid that may harm bondholders to be part
of the latest deal makes little sense.  ‘Investors Misled’  “These were claims about investments where investors were
misled,” Rosner said in a Nov. 19 interview on Bloomberg
Television. “Why is money going to consumers?”  Homeowners also were harmed by shoddy securitization
practices, according to a government official involved in the
settlement. Giving JPMorgan credit for loans held within bonds
will help more of the neediest get aid because many of the worst
mortgages were packaged into securities, said the official, who
asked not to be named because the discussions were private.  President  Barack Obama , Democrat and Republican lawmakers
and regulators including the Treasury Department and  Federal
Housing Finance Agency  have all said they want more private
capital in the home-loan market five years after the government
rescued  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac .  Mortgage-bond investors are still wary of the market after
record losses from the worst housing crash since the Great
Depression.  JPMorgan, Bears Stearns Cos. and  Washington Mutual  Inc.
home loans from 2005 through 2008 placed into non-agency bonds
have experienced more than $76 billion of losses, and $30
billion of the remaining debt is at least 60 days delinquent,
according to a Securities and Exchange Commission filing.  Promised Quality  Investors, insurers and regulators have said in lawsuits
against JPMorgan that reviews of soured loans showed in some
cases that more than 80 percent failed to match their promised
quality. The bank bought Washington Mutual’s banking assets and
Bear Stearns in 2008.  BlackRock, which is JPMorgan’s biggest  shareholder , and
other investors have also opposed efforts by local governments
to use their eminent domain powers to seize and rework mortgages
held within bonds. The asset manager, which joined in August
with competitors to seek a court order to block Richmond,
 California ’s efforts to advance such a plan, contends it will
depress private lending.  Municipalities in about 11 states from California and
Washington to  Ohio ,  New York ,  New Jersey  are still at least
looking into the idea, according toRobert Hockett, a Cornell
University professor who’s advised the local governments.  “The servicer settlement and the eminent domain proposals
all discourage private capital,” Novick said in a telephone
interview. “If you don’t know what your rights are as an
investor, why would you allocate capital?”  Investors’ Ire  Investors’ ire has built since a 2008 settlement between
Bank of America Corp.’s Countrywide Financial unit and state
attorneys general in which claims of predatory lending yielded a
deal that called for mostly investor-owned loans to be revised.  Since then, state and federal governments have taken a
series of steps to temporarily freeze or slow foreclosures.
Congress passed a law protecting servicers from certain investor
suits and the federal Home Affordable Modification Program was
structured in a way that aids banks, mortgage investors have
said.  In JPMorgan’s latest deal, the bank can get credit for
extinguishing second mortgages a day before a foreclosure in
which the debt will be wiped out, saidLaurie Goodman, director
of Urban Institute’s housing finance policy center. The bank
gets 40 percent credit for  non-performing  second loans, up from
as little as 10 percent in the earlier deal in which observers
questioned the credit, she said.  Principal Forgiveness  “There is a role for giving credit for principal
forgiveness on second liens but the 40 cents on the dollar seems
miscalibrated,” said Goodman, a former mortgage-bond analyst at
firms including UBS AG and Amherst Securities Group LP.  Credit is also available for  refinancing  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and
Freddie Mac mortgages serviced by others under the federal Home
Affordable Refinance Program, which JPMorgan “might be doing
anyway,” she said.  The bank’s costs from the consumer relief are already
accounted for in its provisions, Chief Financial Officer
Marianne Lakesaid on a Nov. 19 conference call.  Giving JPMorgan partial credit on investor-owned loans
hurts rather than helps bondholders because it means the lender
has to write down more mortgages to get the same amount, said
Chris Ames, a senior portfolio manager at Schroder Investment
Management North America Inc.  Judgment Call  “The decision by a servicer to write off debt is a
judgment call,” Ames said in an e-mail. The type of settlement
creates “perverse incentives, and the servicing of private
label securities isn’t transparent enough for investors to
evaluate the decision-making.”  The perceived harm to bondholders would be even less likely
if a separate agreement reached last week between JPMorgan and
21 institutional investors including BlackRock is finalized,
according to the government official.  Under that proposed settlement of mortgage-bond holders’
own claims of misrepresentations, JPMorgan would  allow  servicing
on certain loans to be transferred along with paying $4.5
billion. The agreement doesn’t cover Washington Mutual debt.  Trustees representing all investors in the deals have as
many as 120 days to accept the proposal. Certain investors may
seek to resist the accord, according to Nomura Securities
International analysts Paul Nikodem andPratik Gupta.  Nomura Estimate  The 7 percent payout relative to past and projected losses
on the loans is lower than the about 10 percent seen in a $8.5
billion proposed deal reached in 2011 by Bank of America still
being fought over in court, according to Nomura.  Novick declined to comment on that settlement, whileKathy Patrick, a partner at Gibbs & Bruns LLP representing the
investor group, didn’t return an e-mail seeking comment.  While Novick said BlackRock isn’t opposed to borrowers
getting their balances lowered, the firm “stands by” its view
that the step should mainly occur under a mediation process in
which borrowers’ unsecured debt such as credit-card borrowing
and second mortgages are extinguished first.  “We’re in favor of the rule of law, and the forgiveness of
debt in the order it should be under contract law,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  