-- Brazil Real Climbs With Stocks on $9.1 Billion in Airport Bids
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2013-11-22T20:29:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/brazil-real-trades-at-one-week-low-as-fed-concern-sinks-demand.html
Brazil’s real gained along with
stocks as companies made winning bids worth $9.1 billion to
operate two of the nation’s busiest airports, agreeing to pay
almost four times the minimum amounts set by the government.  The currency rose 1.1 percent to 2.2794 per  U.S. dollar  at
the close in Sao Paulo, extending the rally over the past five
days to 1.5 percent, its first weekly advance since Oct. 18. The
real was the best performer today among emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The Ibovespa equity index rose
0.2 percent to 53,800.74, paring its weekly drop to 1.2 percent.  In auctions testing Brazil’s ability to attract major
operators and revamp infrastructure before the 2014 World Cup
and 2016 Olympics, a group led by Brazil’s Odebrecht SA that
included  Singapore ’s Changi Airport Group won with a bid of 19
billion reais ($8.3 billion) to operate  Rio de Janeiro ’s Galeao
airport. The offer compares with the minimum required bid of
4.83 billion reais.  “There is an expectation of more dollar inflows once these
concessions happen,” Pablo Spyer, a director at Mirae Asset
Management in  Sao Paulo , said in a telephone interview.  A group led by CCR SA, which also includes the operators of
Munich’s and Zurich’s airports, agreed to pay 1.82 billion reais
for the right to operate Confins airport in  Belo Horizonte ,
compared with a minimum bid of 1.1 billion reais.  Sao Paulo-based CCR climbed 1.3 percent to 18.48 reais
after earlier advancing 1.8 percent. Petroleo Brasileiro, the
state-run oil producer, dropped 1.1 percent to 20.67 reais.  Itau Outlook  The drop in Brazil’s  unemployment rate  to the lowest level
this year will make it possible for the government to cut its
 budget deficit  before the 2014 presidential election and avoid a
reduction in the nation’s credit rating, according to Itau
Unibanco Holding SA.  “The government’s base-case scenario is that they can do
enough on the fiscal side to avoid a downgrade while keeping
unemployment low,”  Ilan Goldfajn , Itau’s chief economist, said
in an interview in Sao Paulo.  The national statistics agency reported yesterday that the
jobless rate fell to 5.2 percent in October, below the 5.4
percent median estimate of 32 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Brazil auctioned credit lines today as part of a
$60 billion intervention to bolster the currency and curb import
price increases. The central bank also extended the maturity on
$992 million of foreign-exchange swaps in a seventh straight
session of rollover auctions.  The real has fallen 1.7 percent since Oct. 31, when Brazil
reported that the September government  deficit  as a percentage
of gross domestic product swelled to the largest since 2009.  Investor Outlook  Investors have never been more pessimistic about President
Dilma Rousseff’s policies, with only 10 percent saying the
country can avoid a credit-rating downgrade in the next year, a
Bloomberg Global Poll shows.  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service lowered
their outlooks this year on the nation’s credit rating, which
both companies have at two levels above junk.  Brazil’s current-account deficit expanded to 3.7 percent of
annual gross domestic product in the 12 months through October,
the widest since 2002, according to a report today from the
central bank. The  gap  in the current account, the broadest
measure of a country’s trade in goods and services, was 3.6
percent in the prior month.  Foreign Investment  Foreign direct investment climbed in October to
$5.4 billion from $4.8 billion in the prior month. The median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for an increase
to $5.3 billion.  Swap rates on contracts due in January 2017 rose four basis
points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 12.09 percent today on
speculation the central bank will raise the target lending rate
to 10 percent this month to curb inflation. The swap rates
extended their weekly increase to 26 basis points.  Inflation accelerated to 5.78 percent in the 12 months
through mid-November, more than a percentage point higher than
the central bank’s target, the national statistics agency
reported Nov. 19.  Brazil  has raised the  target lending rate  to 9.5 percent
from a record low 7.25 percent this year, the most among 49
nations tracked by Bloomberg, in a bid to cool consumer demand
and hold down prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  