-- Buffett’s NetJets Lures East European Elite With Top-End Planes
-- B y   N a t a s h a   D o f f
-- 2013-11-22T09:17:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/buffett-s-netjets-lures-east-european-elite-with-top-end-planes.html
Warren Buffett ’s NetJets Inc. will
employ bigger, more luxurious jets to target increasing demand
for its fractional-ownership program in fast-growing East
European markets led by  Russia ,  Turkey  and Ukraine.  “Customers there want to see large cabins and the latest,
brightest and newest aircraft,” NetJets  Europe  Sales Director
Marine Eugene said in an interview, adding that the three
countries are among the region’s few growth markets.  The NetJets Inc. unit of Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/B) 
placed $17.6 billion of orders for 670 jets between 2010 and
2012, including options, with the planes due to enter service
over the next 10 years. Models including the  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B) 
Global 6000 and the Bombardier Challenger will provide a
competitive edge in  emerging markets  for the European unit, in
which the U.S company has a minority stake, Eugene said.  Private-jet usage collapsed worldwide following the 2008
credit crunch and recession as companies and high net worth
individuals reined in spending. While north and south-European
markets remain sluggish, demand has been steadily growing in
less developed economies to the east.  “Ukraine and Turkey have been making initial purchases of
aircraft non-stop for the past five years,” Eugene said. “They
are building up a fleet.” Russia opened up earlier, with
NetJets extending its main operating area to the country in
2004.  Bigger Planes  Under fractional-ownership plans, customers buy as little
as a 1/16 share of an aircraft, depending on how often they want
to use it, and have guaranteed access to flights anywhere in the
world at 10 hours’ notice.  East European customers generally require bigger planes for
longer trips than clients further west -- where the preference
is for short hops between cities -- to attend meetings in the
 Middle East , Central Asia and Russia’s Far East, Eugene said.  Bombardier’s Global 6000 can fly for 13 hours, according to
the Montreal-based company’s website, while the Challenger, due
to enter the NetJets fleet starting next year, can travel 7,400
kilometers (4,600 miles), depending on the model.  NetJets last year introduced a membership card for Russia
and Turkey with a 20 percent discount versus the company’s
ordinary loyalty card, reflecting higher per-kilometer savings
from long-distance flights. Ukraine was added in September.  “The card is a strategy to make sure that we keep our edge
in areas in the market that are more dynamic than our core
historical market,” Eugene said. “Our customer base in Russia
has been growing non-stop since we introduced it.”  Shorter Range  NetJets is also seeking to adapt to changing conditions in
Britain,  Germany  and  France , where demand is picking up as
Europe emerges from recession. The Brussels-based European
Business Aviation Association said in July that business-jet
flights reached almost 62,000 in June, up 9 percent from May.  West European demand will be met using some of the 125
 Embraer SA (EMBR3)  Phenom 300 aircraft ordered by Columbus, Ohio-based
NetJets Inc. from the Brazilian manufacturer in October 2010,
when they had a list value of $1.05 billion. The twin-engine,
short-range jets are due for delivery in Europe through 2014.  “Western European markets are very light-jet oriented, so
this is a really good market offer for us,” Eugene said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natasha Doff in London at 
 ndoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  