-- Canadian Dollar Touches Four-Month Low Before Inflation Report
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-11-22T13:08:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/canadian-dollar-touches-four-month-low-before-inflation-report.html
The Canadian dollar fell to its
lowest level in more than four months before a report projected
to show inflation fell below the Bank of Canada’s target, an
indicator the central bank has said will help determine policy.  The currency weakened against the majority of its most-traded peers along with its commodity exporting counterparts
 Australia  and New Zealand after Reserve Bank of Australia
Governor Glenn Stevens left open the possibility of intervention
to stop Aussie strength. The Canadian dollar has depreciated in
the past month since the central bank signaled its next move on
interest rate wouldn’t necessarily be higher.  “It does look like just a general rotation out of the
commodity currencies dragged CAD through the key technical
levels,” said Greg Anderson, head of global foreign exchange
strategy at Bank of Montreal, by phone from New York. If the
report this morning shows inflations slowed, “it’s just a bad
headline to add to what’s already not constructive price
action.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, fell 0.3 percent to C$1.0544
per U.S. dollar at 7:43 a.m. in Toronto. Earlier it touched
C$1.0569 per U.S. dollar, the lowest since July 9. One loonie
buys 94.84 U.S. cents.  The annualized  consumer price index  increase slowed to 0.8
percent in October from 1.1 percent the previous month,
according to a Bloomberg survey of 19 economists. The central
bank targets inflation between 1 percent and 3 percent.  Another report will show Canadian  retail sales  rose 0.3
percent in September from 0.2 percent the previous month, a
separate survey showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  