-- Canadian Dollar Declines as Inflation Rate Falls Short of Target
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-11-22T22:16:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/canada-dollar-weakens-as-inflation-trails-central-bank-s-target.html
Canada ’s dollar dropped versus most
major peers as the nation’s consumer-price index fell below the
central bank’s target, bolstering prospects policy makers will
keep interest rates low.  The currency, called the loonie, touched the weakest in
four months against the U.S. dollar before paring the loss as
another report showed Canadian retail sales climbed more than
three times what was forecast. Core inflation excluding more
volatile categories came in at expectations. A technical
indicator signaled the loonie may have fallen too much, too
fast. It was still set for the biggest weekly loss against the
greenback in a month.  “Core is basically in line with expectations and that’s
enough to make them think the best direction for rates is to
keep them on hold,” said David Tulk chief macros strategist at
Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD Securities unit by phone from
Toronto. “Core is the operational guide for the bank and I
think that’s close enough to their forecast that doesn’t provide
them with enough of a reason to jump off at this point.”  The loonie, nicknamed for the image of the aquatic bird on
the C$1 coin, was little changed at C$1.0514 per U.S. dollar at
5:00 p.m. in Toronto. It reached C$1.0569 earlier, the weakest
level since July 9. One Canadian dollar buys 95.11 U.S. cents.
The currency has dropped 0.7 percent this week, the most since
the five days ended Oct. 25.  Implied volatility for one-month options on the U.S. dollar
against its Canadian peer climbed to the highest level in two-months. It reached 6.42 percent, the most since Sept. 18. The
measure is used to set option prices and gauge the expected pace
of currency swings. The average this year is 6.47 percent.  Futures Positions  Futures traders increased their bets that the Canadian
dollar will decline against its U.S. peer, figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show. The
difference in the number of wagers by hedge funds and other
large speculators on a decline in the loonie versus those on a
gain, known as net shorts, increased to 16,335 contracts on Nov.
19, from 16,092 a week earlier.  Canada’s government bonds rose for a second day, pushing
 yields  on benchmark 10-year securities down five basis points,
or 0.05 percentage point, to 2.57 percent. The price of the 1.5
percent debt due in June 2023 gained 39 cents to C$91.01.  The loonie trimmed its decline against the U.S. dollar as
Statistics Canada reported that  retail sales  increased 1 percent
to a record C$40.7 billion ($38.6 billion). The gain exceeded
the forecasts of all 19 economists in a Bloomberg  survey  that
estimated a 0.3 percent increase.  Consumer Prices  “We’re a little bit stronger than we were prior to the
data’s release, so I think the focus has really been on the
retail-sales figures, which were substantially above
expectations,” said CIBC’s Enenajor. “Consumption is
continuing to be a key factor in the Canadian economy.”  The seven-day relative-strength index for the Canadian
dollar versus the greenback fell to 29.7, breaching the
threshold of 30 that shows it may be due for a reversal.  Canada’s  CPI (CACPIYOY)  declined to 0.7 percent in October from a year
earlier, the nation’s statistics agency reported, lagging behind
a Bloomberg survey’s forecast for 0.8 percent inflation rate. It
was 1.1 percent in September. The core rate, which excludes
eight volatile products, decelerated to 1.2 percent from 1.3
percent, matching economist forecasts.  “It could open the door to forward guidance of potential
policy changes in the future, if inflation stays this low,”
said Greg Anderson, head of global foreign-exchange strategy at
Bank of Montreal, by phone from New York.  Rate Outlook  Bank of Canada Governor Stephen Poloz said last month the
risk of inflation falling below policy makers’ 1 percent-to-3
percent target band led him to signal on Oct. 23 the next move
in interest rates wouldn’t necessarily be higher. He dropped
language about the need for higher rates that had been in every
policy statement for more than a year.  The central bank has kept its benchmark  rate  at 1 percent
since 2010 to support the economy. Policy makers will probably
maintain the rate until the second quarter of 2015, according to
the median estimate of 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
between Nov. 8 and Nov. 13.  Canada’s dollar fell earlier along with the currencies of
fellow commodity-exporting countries  Australia  and New Zealand
against major peers after Reserve Bank of Australia Governor
Glenn Stevens left open the possibility of intervention to stem
Aussie-dollar strength.  The loonie has dropped 2.8 percent this year against nine
other developed-nation currencies tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Index. The Australian dollar has fallen 9.7
percent, while the U.S. dollar has gained 3.7 percent.  “The bottom line is that everyone knows, and the bank also
knows, inflation has been very weak, and likely won’t be at 2
percent this year or next year,” Emanuella Enenajor, an
economist at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, said by phone
from Toronto. “So to see a number that’s that soft really just
confirms inflation is well under wraps in Canada.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  