-- Canadian Inflation Slows More Than Forecast to 0.7%
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-11-22T15:59:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/canadian-inflation-slows-more-than-forecast-to-0-7-.html
Consumer prices in  Canada  rose less
than forecast in October, putting the  inflation  rate below the
 Bank of Canada ’s target range.  Prices rose 0.7 percent from a year earlier, compared with
1.1 percent increases in the prior two months,  Statistics Canada 
said today in Ottawa. Economists projected a 0.8 percent gain
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Bank of Canada Governor Stephen Poloz told lawmakers two
days ago that inflation has been lower than he would like it to
be, and reiterated that the economy needs the “substantial”
stimulus of a 1 percent policy interest rate. Consumer prices
have been below the 2 percent midpoint of policy makers’ 1
percent to 3 percent target range since May 2012.  “It re-enforces the point there is exactly zero urgency
for the bank to move” interest rates higher, said  Doug Porter ,
chief economist at BMO Capital Markets in Toronto. “Years of
the world economy operating below capacity is cutting inflation
pressure everywhere.”  The Canadian dollar weakened 0.2 percent to C$1.0534 per
 U.S. dollar  at 10:53 a.m. in Toronto. It earlier reached
C$1.0569, the weakest level since July 9. Two-year federal
government bond yields were unchanged at 1.11 percent.  Gasoline prices fell 4.3 percent in October from a year
earlier and 5.1 percent from September, Statistics Canada said
today.  Core Inflation  The  core  inflation rate, which excludes eight volatile
products, slowed to 1.2 percent from 1.3 percent, matching
economist forecasts. The main price increases in October were
for shelter and food, which rose by 1.3 percent and 0.9 percent,
respectively.  Grocery pricing “is still very competitive,” Eric La Fleche, chief executive officer of Montreal-based grocery chain
Metro Inc., said on a Nov. 13 earnings call when asked about
food inflation.  The Bank of Canada has predicted inflation would average
1.3 percent in the October-December period, and the core rate
would average 1.4 percent. The bank said at its last interest-rate decision on Oct. 23, when it dropped language about raising
 interest rates , “the fact that inflation has been persistently
below target means that downside risks to inflation assume
increasing importance.”  Weak job growth and declines for prices of imported goods
such as food suggest inflation won’t rebound soon, said Matthieu Arseneau, senior economist at  National Bank of Canada  in
 Montreal .  ‘Very Tame’  “Inflation remains very tame in Canada,” Arseneau said in
a client note. Headline and core inflation will stay well within
the bottom half of the bank target range “for the foreseeable
future,” he said.  On a monthly basis, total  inflation  fell 0.2 percent in
October, the first decline since April, while the core rate rose
0.2 percent. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg predicted that
prices would fall 0.1 percent on a monthly basis and the core
rate would increase 0.2 percent.  Seasonally adjusted inflation fell 0.1 percent in October
after a revised 0.1 percent increase the prior month, and the
adjusted core price index was unchanged.  Statistics Canada today also reported that September retail
 sales  rose 1 percent on the biggest gain at new  car dealerships 
in more than four years.  Investors will focus more on the inflation report as a sign
of weakness the central bank must account for, said  Camilla Sutton , head of currency strategy at Bank of  Nova Scotia .  “There are some disinflationary pressures in Canada that
are likely to build a more dovish bank of Canada,” she said by
phone from Toronto.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  