-- China’s Money-Market Rate Set for Biggest Weekly Drop Since July
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-22T03:10:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/china-s-money-market-rate-set-for-biggest-weekly-drop-since-july.html
China’s benchmark money-market rate
headed for the biggest weekly drop since July after the central
bank stepped up fund injections into the financial system.  The People’s Bank of China added a net 59 billion ($9.7
billion) this week after withdrawing money in the two preceding
periods, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. It offered 14-day reverse-repurchase contracts yesterday for the first time
this month, pumping in 33 billion  yuan  into the financial
system, the largest  amount  since October.  The  seven-day repurchase rate , a gauge of funding
availability in the banking system, fell 78 basis points, or
0.78 percentage point, to 4.67 percent as of 10:02 a.m. in
 Shanghai , according to a weighted average compiled by the
National Interbank Funding Center. That was the biggest decline
since the five days ended July 5. It slid 24 basis points today.  “While liquidity might ease in December as government
spending picks up, seasonal patterns suggest further episodes of
tighter liquidity at end-December and then again at end-January
heading into the Chinese New Year holidays,” Citigroup Inc.’s
Singapore-based analysts Gaurav Garg and Siddharth Mathur wrote
in a research report yesterday.  China ’s central government usually transfers fiscal funds
to local administrations during November and December, boosting
cash available at commercial banks.  The cost of one-year interest-rate  swaps , the fixed payment
needed to receive the floating seven-day repo rate, added two
basis points this week to 4.56 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It declined five basis points today.  The yield on the 4.08 percent government bonds due August
2023 slipped two basis points today to 4.68 percent, according
to data from the Interbank Funding Center. The rate climbed
eight basis points from a week ago.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  