-- China H Shares Rise Led by Insurers as Premium to Shangha
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-22T09:22:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/china-stock-index-futures-rise-as-equities-head-for-weekly-gain.html
The benchmark index for Chinese
stocks in  Hong Kong (HSCEI)  capped its biggest weekly gain since
December 2011 as insurers climbed, widening a premium over
Shanghai shares.  Ping An Insurance (Group) Co. rallied to its highest level
since August 2011 in Hong Kong, while China Pacific Insurance
(Group) Co. added 2.9 percent. Fosun International Ltd. fell 4.3
percent in the city, paring a drop of 7.1 percent, after the
company rejected as untrue speculation that its parent’s
Chairman  Guo Guangchang  was detained.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index advanced 1 percent to
11,448.74 at the close, taking this week’s gain to 7 percent.
The Shanghai Composite slipped 0.4 percent to 2,196.38, trimming
a weekly advance to 2.8 percent. Mainland shares are valued at a
6 percent discount, the most in three years, according to the
Hang Seng China AH Premium Index.  “According to the Chinese calendar, 2014 is the year of
the horse and that horse is going to go galloping at a high
speed, and so we’re prepared by being fully invested,” Mark
Mobius, who oversees about $53 billion as the chairman of
Templeton  Emerging Markets  Group, said in Bucharest.  Chinese shares rallied this week after the government
announced the largest package of economic reforms since the
1990s. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. raised its recommendation on the
nation’s stocks to overweight, citing improving reform momentum,
while Credit Suisse Group AG said Chinese equities are among its
three top recommendations.  Insurers Gain  The reforms are getting a bigger vote of confidence from
foreign investors than from the nation’s own citizens. The H-shares gauge has jumped more than twice as much as the Shanghai
gauge since policy makers led by President Xi Jinping pledged to
ease the one-child policy and liberalize interest rates.  Ping An Insurance rose 3 percent to HK$73.15. China Pacific
Insurance added 2.9 percent to HK$31.50. Chinese
insurers will outperform in 2014, HSBC Holdings Plc said.  Yanzhou Coal rose 3.2 percent to HK$8.63, leading a rally
for energy companies.  China Shenhua Energy Co. (1088) , the biggest
producer of the fuel, advanced 1.9 percent to HK$26.65 in a
seventh day of gains. The company’s steam coal price increased
for a ninth week, the China Securities Journal reported.  Fosun Drops  Fosun International fell to HK$7.13. The rumors that Guo
had been detained are “unfounded,” Fosun International said in
an e-mailed statement. The company will take all necessary steps
to get to the bottom of the situation, according to the
statement, which cited Guo.  Shanghai Fosun Pharmaceutical Group Co., a unit of  Fosun
International, (656)  slid 4.2 percent to 17.84  yuan  after sinking as
much as 10 percent.  Tianjin Marine Shipping Co. dropped 7.6 percent to 7.39
yuan, snapping a five-day, 35 percent rally. Shares of companies
in Tianjin, a port city southeast of Beijing, had advanced on
speculation a planned free-trade zone will lure business and
boost profit. Tianjin Quanye Bazaar (Group) Co., a department
store operator, slid 6.7 percent to 5.56 yuan, paring this
year’s rally to 34 percent.  The H-shares gauge has risen 0.1 percent this year and
 trades  for 7.8 times projected earnings for the next 12 months,
compared with a multiple of 8.7 for the  Shanghai Composite. (SHCOMP)  The
Shanghai index has slipped 3.2 percent in 2013, while the MSCI
All-Country World Index has advanced 18 percent.  Chinese stocks in Hong Kong are “playing catch up with
other global markets in a classic year-end type rally,” said
Sandy Mehta, chief executive officer of Value Investment
Principals Ltd. in Hong Kong. “There is still room to rally
given valuations. Chinese A shares will likely follow, but many
investors are skeptical economic growth has truly bottomed out.
Further positive data points and proactive moves from the
leadership should lead to better performance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allen Wan in Shanghai at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Patterson at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  