-- China’s Path to U.S.-Style IPOs Confronts Get-Rich-Quick Culture
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-22T00:58:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/china-s-path-to-u-s-style-ipos-confronts-get-rich-quick-culture.html
China ’s plan to allow the market a
greater role in initial public offerings hinges on stamping out
a raft of practices that deceive investors, from lax
underwriting standards to executives who falsify earnings to
obtain higher valuations.  The proposed switch to a U.S.-style IPO model comes after a
14-month moratorium on Chinese offerings and is part of a wider
push by the Communist Party to lessen government control of the
economy. The so-called registration system would leave questions
of IPO supply and timing of deals to companies, not Chinese
regulators who now must approve most facets of an offering.
Hurdles abound, including creating a legal system robust enough
to guard against stock-sale fraud.  “The registration system is the right direction, but it
requires many other conditions to make it work,” said Zhang
Yuanzhong, a Beijing-based lawyer at Wentian Law Firm
specializing in securities litigation. “You need a compensation
mechanism that allows investors to recover losses, and a legal
definition of  securities fraud  needs to be established to allow
investors to bring cases to court.”  Beijing’s plan to overhaul its IPO process came in a  60-point statement  released Nov. 15 after leaders gathered in the
third full meeting, or plenum, of the party’s 18th  Central
Committee . China was home to the world’s largest IPO market in
2010 with $71 billion worth of offerings. The market is frozen
now as regulators draft rules to curb misconduct in first-time
share sales.  Acknowledging the obstacles to the proposal, China
Securities Regulatory Commission chairman Xiao Gang said Nov. 19
the shift to a looser IPO system must be gradual to avoid shocks
to the market.  ‘Touch One Hair’  The CSRC may need until at least 2015 to introduce the new
system, as it would first have to overhaul the country’s
securities law, said Leon Qi, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Daiwa
Securities Group Inc. It must also clear a backlog of more than
700 companies waiting to go public under existing rules, Qi
said.  Xiao  warned  of the enormity of the task at hand, saying
that creating a registration-based system is the kind of reform
where “if you touch one hair, the whole body feels the
impact.”  China now relies on the CSRC to act as a gatekeeper for
offerings. A seven-person listing review committee examines each
application in a lengthy process, judging factors such as
investment potential and profit sustainability. It even uses its
power to sit on IPO applications when stock markets are weak to
restrict the supply of new equity.  “Government control of the IPO tap provides a floor to the
markets,” said Keith Pogson, a partner at Ernst & Young who
oversees financial services in  Asia .  Legal Channels  Under the new model, the watchdog’s role would switch to
ensuring only that companies’ disclosures meet certain legal and
financial requirements, a model used by developed countries
including the U.S.  That places the burden of ensuring the accuracy of
disclosures on the listing companies and its bankers, some of
whom currently lack the capability to conduct proper due
diligence, according to Xiao.  “It’s going to be tough,” said Beijing lawyer Zhang.
“Many companies have deep-rooted connections with local
authorities, and local courts may lack independence.”  Chinese investors now lack legal channels to seek
compensation for fraud losses, according to Zhang. That’s
especially a problem as individual investors dominate trading on
China’s stock exchange. Institutions account for just 17 percent
of the free float, said former CSRC chairman  Guo Shuqing .  Realistic Valuations  One outcome of a registration-based system should be more
realistic valuations as the number of IPOs increases, said Gary
Liu, a researcher at the China Europe International Business
School in  Shanghai .  Rich valuations for IPOs helped drive a boom in new
offerings three years ago. Price-to-earnings ratios of Chinese
IPOs averaged 58 times in 2010 and 48 times in 2011,  according
to  former CSRC chairman Guo.  “The fact that so many companies have lined up to sell
shares indicates that valuations are still too high,” Liu said
in an interview in July.  Chinese regulators are already in the midst of a crackdown
on securities fraud. The CSRC, under pressure to avoid
exacerbating a 24 percent  slump  in the Shanghai Composite Index
in the past three years, has been drafting tougher rules to curb
misconduct. Last December the CSRC ordered companies to
reexamine their offering documents for spot checks, forcing more
than 200 firms to withdraw their applications.  Barred Bankers  Since May, at least 21 bankers, auditors, lawyers and
executives have been barred from China’s securities industry.  The CSRC fined Ping An Securities Co. 76.7 million  yuan 
($12.6 million) and Minsheng Securities Co. 3 million yuan in
May for failed due diligence in IPOs, while Nanjing Securities
Co. was censured for similar violations. Bankers at all three
firms were barred from the industry for life. Ping An was
arranging the IPO of Wanfu Biotechnology Hunan Agricultural
Development Co., which had forged financial data, the CSRC said.  “China still has this get-rich-quick mentality and it’s
deeply embedded in the current culture,” said Ernst & Young’s
Pogson. “People are more willing to take short-term risk and
care less about their long-term reputation.”  Proposed regulations, published in draft form in June on
the CSRC’s website, call for penalties against brokerages and
their employees for transgressions such as including inaccurate
information in a prospectus and poor risk disclosure, or when
companies post a drop of more than 50 percent in profit in the
year following an IPO.  Under the rules, the regulator could temporarily ban a
securities firm from equity underwriting if key data is omitted,
or if misleading or falsified information is published in the
prospectus.  “You can’t jump from complete state control to market-driven overnight,” Pogson said. “The transition needs to be
carefully managed.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  