-- China Says Candidates for Hong Kong Chief Election Need Vetting
-- B y   S i m o n   L e e
-- 2013-11-22T05:50:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/china-says-candidates-for-hong-kong-chief-election-need-vetting.html
China  said candidates for  Hong
Kong ’s chief executive election in 2017 must be vetted by a
committee, reiterating the ground rules as the city plans to
start public consultation on universal suffrage.  The nomination procedure allows for input from different
parts of society and will ensure the elected leader is
acceptable to all, Li Fei, deputy secretary-general of China’s
National People’s Congress Standing Committee, told lawmakers
and officials in Hong Kong today.  Li’s comments underline China’s desire to retain control of
the 2017 election process as opposition lawmakers in Hong Kong
call for the introduction of full-fledged democracy. Civic
groups have threatened to organize demonstrations in the city’s
financial district next July should Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying not speed up political reforms.  “The chief executive’s post must be filled by a patriot,”
Li said. “Someone who opposes the central government cannot
become chief executive.”  Leung is the last leader picked by a group of billionaires,
professionals and lawmakers to run Hong Kong as China has
pledged to allow an election in four years. Public consultation
on the electoral process will start next month, Chief Secretary
Carrie Lam said on Nov. 21.  Under the  Basic Law , Hong Kong’s de-facto constitution,
candidates for 2017 must be nominated by a committee. Universal
suffrage in the city will have “Hong Kong characteristics,”
Zhang Xiaoming, the Chinese government’s representative in the
city, said July 16.  Pro-democracy groups have called for a nomination process
open to the public, while Hugo Swire, a minister in the U.K.’s
Foreign Office, said Sept. 14 that the election system should
give Hong Kong people a “real stake” in the outcome.  “Prospects for universal suffrage by 2017 are dimming,”
according to the U.S.-China Economy and Security Review
Commission’s 2013  report  to Congress dated Nov. 20. “The
totality of the evidence suggests that Beijing does not intend
to allow real democracy to develop in Hong Kong.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Lee in Hong Kong at 
 slee936@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  