-- Citigroup Starts Program to Sell Zambia Debt-Backed Notes
-- B y   M a t t h e w   H i l l
-- 2013-11-22T13:35:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/citigroup-starts-program-to-sell-zambia-debt-backed-notes.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  said it is opening
Zambia’s local bond market to foreign investors with a global
depositary note program that will meet demand for higher-yielding securities from  Africa ’s biggest copper producer.  The program, the second in Africa after Nigeria, offers
investors access to yields more than twice that of Zambia’s
5.375 percent Eurobonds due September 2022, with rates on the
government’s kwacha-denominated 10-year debt reaching 17.25
percent at an Aug. 30 auction. The notes are backed by
underlying domestic bonds, with the principal debt and interest
payable in the local currency.  “There’s a population of investors that have expressed
interest in this market,” Scott Pollak, managing director for
depositary receipt services at Citigroup, said by phone from New
York on Nov. 20.  Foreign investors in the notes need to balance potential
returns against swings in the kwacha when converted back into
international currency,  Stuart Culverhouse , chief economist at
Exotix Partners LLP, said by phone from London today. The kwacha
has weakened 3.3 percent over the past month, falling to 5.56
per dollar on Nov. 19, the lowest close since May 2009.  “The kwacha has come under quite a bit of pressure over
the past couple of weeks so obviously investors would have to
weigh that up,” said Culverhouse. “If you assume a relatively
stable  exchange rate , then that does look attractive.”  Fitch Ratings  last month lowered Zambia one step to B, five
levels below investment grade and  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded
its outlook to negative, retaining its B+ rating.  Yields on the nation’s $750 million of Eurobonds have
climbed 224 basis points, or 2.24 percentage points, to 7.4
percent since being issued in September 2012, compared with an
average 150 basis-point increase for dollar-denominated
sovereign African debt, JPMorgan Chase & Co.  indexes  show.  Bank of New York Mellon Corp.  in September established
American Depositary Receipt programs for three companies in
Africa’s biggest copper producer. These were the first to be
established in southern Africa other than  South Africa .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Hill in Lusaka at 
 mhill58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  