-- Cliffs Mine Shutdown Threatens Ring of Fire Development
-- B y   G e r r i t   D e   V y n c k
-- 2013-11-22T21:48:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/cliffs-mine-shutdown-threatens-ring-of-fire-development.html
Cliffs Natural Resources Inc. (CLF)  is
postponing a $3.3 billion project in Ontario, threatening
development of the mineral-rich Ring of Fire area once described
as  Canada ’s most-promising mining region.  Cliffs’ plan to mine chromite, an ingredient for making
stainless steel, was among the most advanced in the Ring of
Fire, the horseshoe-shaped deposit about 1,000 kilometers (622
miles) northwest of Toronto and named by a mining executive
after the Johnny Cash song. Other companies working in the area
include  Noront Resources Ltd. (NOT)  and  KWG Resources Inc. (KWG) , both
headquartered in Toronto.  At stake is development of Northern Ontario, an area about
twice the size of  California , and projects to mine chromite,
copper and nickel. In 2010, former Ontario Premier Dalton McGuinty called the Ring of Fire “the most promising mining
opportunity in Canada in a century,” and Michael Gravelle, the
province’s mining minister,  values  the Ring of Fire’s mineral
potential at C$60 billion ($57 billion).  Cliffs’ decision is going to have “a huge impact on the
development of the Ring of Fire,” Michael Mantha, an opposition
 New Democratic Party  member from northern Ontario, said in a
telephone interview. The provincial government hasn’t
established a clear framework for developing the Ring of Fire,
he said. “It sends the wrong message to the rest of industry.”  Associated ‘Risks’  Exploration and technical work at Cliffs’ project will stop
by the end of the year and company offices in Toronto and
Thunder Bay, Ontario, will be shut, the Cleveland-based company
said in a Nov. 20 statement. Cliffs blamed “risks associated
with the development of necessary infrastructure” as metals
prices slumped this year and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. forecast
declines next year.  “When the macroeconomic conditions are tough, and you’re
facing infrastructure constraints also, it becomes a double
whammy,” Mitesh Thakkar, an analyst for FBR Capital Markets in
Arlington,  Virginia , said yesterday in a telephone interview.  Cliffs, the biggest U.S.  iron-ore  producer, calls its
chromite deposit  North America ’s largest. The company said in
January 2012 the estimated total cost to develop the project was
$3.3 billion, including mine development, a processing plant and
transportation infrastructure.  Cliffs has had challenges advancing the project. In June,
the company suspended an environmental-impact evaluation, citing
delays in negotiations with the provincial government and
uncertainty over the environmental review process because it was
being challenged by native groups in the area.  Transportation Infrastructure  Cliffs received a further setback in September when the
Mining and Lands Commission of Ontario  ruled  against the
company’s proposal for an all-weather road to transport ore that
would cross claims of KWG Resources.  KWG Chief Executive Officer Frank Smeenk said the
challenges faced by Cliffs may actually help spur resource
development in the region because they’ve prompted the
provincial government to establish a development corporation to
solve a lack of transportation infrastructure.  “There are risk items here that companies have no control
over,” Smeenk, whose company has a 30 percent stake in Cliffs’
Big Daddy project, said yesterday by phone.  A Cliffs spokeswoman said her company has spent $500
million on the project so far.  ‘Couldn’t Continue’  “With that level of spending and no certainty around the
infrastructure, we just couldn’t continue,” Patricia Persico
said yesterday in a telephone interview.  The land commission decision to not approve the road may
have been a “show stopper,” she said.  The province should have responded sooner to Cliffs’
concerns, said Greg Rickford, the federal minister responsible
for the Ring of Fire and development in northern Ontario.  “The land commissioner’s decision is the real source of
uncertainty,” he told reporters today in Timmins, Ontario.  Canada’s Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  said the federal
government has been talking to Ontario about the Ring of Fire
“over the last few years” on issues of regulation, investment
and aboriginal relations, however decisions over the development
primarily fall under provincial jurisdiction.  “Ultimately, it is private companies themselves that have
to make decisions about the viability of commercial projects,”
Harper told reporters in Winnipeg today.  ‘A Reprieve’  First Nations are in favor of developments like Cliffs’ as
long as they are consulted and there are tangible benefits for
their people, said Harvey Yesno, the Grand Chief of the
Nishnawbe Aski Nation, a political group representing 49 First
Nations’ communities in northern Ontario.  “In some ways, Cliff’s decision may just be a reprieve to
address some of the infrastructure issues,” Yesno said
yesterday by phone.  “There’s no question it’s significant,” Gravelle,
Ontario’s minister of northern development and mining, said
yesterday by phone, referring to Cliffs’ decision. While the
company played a big role in the Ring of Fire, there are other
players in the region that can step in, he said.  “The Ring of Fire project will move forward,” Gravelle
said.  Cliffs declined 1.5 percent to $26.04 at the close in  New
York , while Noront  fell  5 percent and KWG rose 11 percent in
Toronto.  Cliffs said last month that third-quarter net income rose
to $104.3 million, or 66 cents, from $85.1 million, or 59 cents,
a year earlier. Revenue increased 0.1 percent to $1.55 billion.  ‘Doesn’t Rot’  Gold, iron ore, soybeans and copper will probably drop at
least 15 percent next year as commodities face increased
downside risks even as economic growth in the U.S. accelerates,
Goldman Sachs said in a Nov. 20 note.  The risks are strongest for iron ore and follow increases
in supplies, analysts including  Jeffrey Currie  wrote in a
report.  Cliff’s decision is a setback for the Ring of Fire, but it
is only temporary, said Stan Sudol who runs
 RepublicOfMining.com , a blog focusing on mining in northern
Ontario.  “Ore in the ground doesn’t rot,” Sudol said. “It will
still be there a year or two from now and I think once all
governments come together and decide this is the route we’re
going to do with transportation, then the project will get new
wings.”  Noront vowed to continue developing its  Eagle’s Nest 
nickel, copper and platinum-group project in the Ring of Fire.
The project isn’t dependent on other companies, Noront said in a
Nov. 20 statement.  Cliffs’ decision is a wake-up call, Noront Chief Executive
Officer Alan Coutts said yesterday by phone.  “A move such as this might focus attention in the right
way,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gerrit De Vynck in Toronto at 
 gdevynck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  