-- More Cocaine Found Near Tokyo Brings Cache to $70 Million
-- B y   Y u k o   T a k e o
-- 2013-11-22T03:46:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/cocaine-found-on-beaches-near-tokyo-brings-cache-to-70-million.html
Two more backpacks of smuggled
cocaine were found washed ashore near Tokyo yesterday in a cache
said to be the largest discovered in  Japan .  The backpacks, each containing 20 kilograms (44 pounds) of
cocaine wrapped in waterproof tape, were found separately by
residents on beaches in Yokosuka city and the town of Hayama,
said a spokesman for the Kanagawa Prefectural Police
Department’s drug and firearms enforcement division, who asked
not to be named, citing department policy.  The discovery adds to four similar backpacks found on a
beach in Yokosuka on Nov. 19, which contained a combined 78
kilograms of cocaine, the spokesman said. The total amount now
found is worth about 7.1 billion yen ($70 million), based on a
police estimate that puts the drug’s market value at 60,000 yen
per gram.  Yokosuka, home to a U.S. Navy base, is about 50 kilometers
(31 miles) south of  Tokyo . Japanese police haven’t contacted the
Navy as there’s no indication of a U.S. connection so far, the
spokesman said.  A 74-year-old fisherman found the first four backpacks,
with a total of 78 packets weighing 1 kilogram each, according
to the police. The backpacks had plastic bottles tied to them,
with fluorescent rods inside. The two packs found yesterday
appear to have separated from the previous four, and police
aren’t expecting to find more, the spokesman said.  It’s the first time cocaine has washed up in Yokosuka,
although police have found the drugs ketamine and marijuana
previously, the spokesman said. Stimulants including
methamphetamine, the most popular illegal drug in Japan, often
wash up in large amounts around the country, he said.  Organized Crime  Police seized a total of 6.6 kilograms of cocaine in Japan
last year, accounting for less than 2 percent of all drugs
seized by weight, according to a report by the  National Police
Agency .  Japanese organized-crime groups involved in drug smuggling
may be working with transnational crime syndicates in  Mexico  and
elsewhere, as there has been a rise in methamphetamine
originating from Mexico, the U.S. State Department said in a
 report  in March.  The cocaine found this week was probably manufactured in
 South America , police said. It was the biggest discovery of the
drug so far in Japan, according to public broadcaster NHK.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuko Takeo in Tokyo at 
 ytakeo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net  