-- Company Credit Swaps in U.S. Fall to Six-Year Low on Jobs Data
-- B y   C a l l i e   B o s t
-- 2013-11-22T21:58:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/company-credit-swaps-in-u-s-fall-to-six-year-low-on-jobs-data.html
A gauge of U.S. company credit risk
fell to the lowest level since 2007 as  job openings  climbed to a
five-year high. The cost to protect the debt of  Time Warner
Cable Inc. (TWC)  against losses decreased.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, decreased
1.7 basis points to 68.8 basis points as of 4:22 p.m. in New
York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The benchmark
is poised to reach the lowest closing level since November 2007.  Investors are assessing gains in the job market as a sign
of improving corporate creditworthiness, even amid speculation
that positive economic data might prompt the  Federal Reserve  to
cut back on stimulus at its December meeting, according to
 Adrian Miller , director of fixed-income strategies at GMP
Securities LLC in New York.  “Risk markets continue to possess a positive tone,
reflected by stocks hitting all-time highs of late,” Miller
wrote in an e-mail. “Absent any data or event that throws cold
water on the positive vibe, investment-grade swaps will be
biased either lower or near” current tight levels.  The number of positions waiting to be filled in the U.S.
rose by 69,000 to 3.91 million in September, the highest since
May 2008, from a revised 3.84 million in August, the Labor
Department reported today in  Washington . The pace of hiring
increased.  Cable Talks  The swaps index typically falls as investor confidence
improves and rises as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Credit risk for Time Warner Cable fell as  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  and
 Charter Communications Inc. (CHTR)  were said to have discussed a joint
bid for the second-largest U.S. cable company that would divide
its assets between them.  Five-year swaps tied to the  debt  of New York-based Time
Warner Cable declined 28.5 basis points to 177.5 basis points as
of 3:26 p.m. in New York, according to data provider CMA, which
is owned by McGraw-Hill Financial Inc. and compiles prices
quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  The talks between Comcast and Charter have been
preliminary, and a Time Warner Cable breakup is one option amid
several under consideration, said people with knowledge of the
matter, who asked not to be identified because the matter is
private.  Speculative Grade  Speculative-grade corporate debt borrowers known as rising
stars that have been upgraded to an investment-grade ranking
this year rose to 31 issuers through Nov. 8, up from 29 the
previous month, according to a report released today by  Standard
& Poor’s .  There have been 19 borrowers downgraded to a high-yield
ranking from investment-grade, or fallen angels, this year, S&P
said in the report.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index, a credit-swaps benchmark tied to speculative-grade
bonds, fell 6.5 basis points to 340.9 basis points, Bloomberg
prices show.  The extra yield investors demand to hold dollar-denominated, investment-grade corporate bonds rather than
similar-maturity Treasuries fell 1.9 basis points to an average
128.1 basis points, Bloomberg data show. The measure for
speculative-grade, or junk-rated, debt decreased 0.7 basis point
to 559.6.  High-yield, high-risk, or junk debt is rated below Baa3 by
Moody’s and lower than BBB- at S&P.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Callie Bost in  New York  at 
 cbost2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  