-- Computer Warehouse Plans Nigeria Fundraising by 2015
-- B y   Y i n k a   I b u k u n   a n d   E m e l e   O n u
-- 2013-11-22T11:15:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/computer-warehouse-plans-nigeria-fundraising-by-2015.html
Computer Warehouse Group Plc (CWG) , a
Nigerian technology company, will seek to raise capital on the
country’s stock exchange within 18 months after listing existing
stock last week.  CWG needs extra funding to refocus the business toward
cloud computing from hardware and software, Chief Executive
Officer Austin Okere, 49, said in an interview yesterday at the
company’s head office in Lagos,  Nigeria ’s commercial capital.
CWG’s goal is to become the biggest cloud-computing provider in
 Africa  by 2015, he said.  “In twelve to eighteen months time, we will approach the
market again,” said Okere. “By that time, we would have
crystallized our transformation process.”  The Nigerian Stock Exchange, Africa’s second-largest
bourse, is seeking a $1 trillion market capitalization by 2016
by encouraging more technology and telecommunications companies
to go public. The exchange is working to make it easier for
companies from those industries to list, according to Nigeria’s
Information and Communication Technology Minister Omobola Johnson.  “Our role is to be a trailblazer; to go to the exchange
and show to people the value of going to the exchange,” Okere
said. “I won’t be surprised if this now opens the path for many
more IT companies to come and list.” CWG plans to sell shares
on the U.S. technology-dominated exchange  Nasdaq  in the longer
term, he said.  Acquisition Plans  CWG’s  shares  have gained 4.5 percent since they were listed
on the  Nigerian Stock Exchange  on Nov. 15, compared with a 3.2
percent gain on the all-share index over the same period.  CWG has a target to double profit in 2013 on sales of
$132.2 million, according to Okere. The company is considering
at least one acquisition, he said.  IT companies are increasingly turning to cloud computing,
which allows businesses to share resources and applications via
the Internet, as the margins are higher than traditional IT
services. Dimension Data Holdings Ltd., a South African
competitor owned by  Japan ’s  Nippon Telegraph & Telephone Corp (9432) ,
acquired California-based OpSource in 2011 to accelerate its
cloud strategy, according to a company press release.  CWG has a target to generate 75 percent of sales from cloud
services by 2019, up from 15 percent now, with small and medium-sized businesses the main customer base, Okere said. The company
still gets 53 percent of its revenue from hardware and almost a
third from software.  Many African businesses have limited access to IT services
and cloud technology would allow them to become more efficient
and spend less on computers, according to a Nov. 20 report
released by McKinsey Global Institute.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yinka Ibukun in Lagos at 
 yibukun@bloomberg.net ;
Emele Onu in Lagos at 
 eonu1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  