-- Congo Uncertainty Seen Posing Risk for Glencore, Randgold
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2013-11-22T17:58:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/congo-vote-uncertainty-seen-posing-risk-for-glencore-randgold.html
Mining companies in the  Democratic
Republic  of Congo including  Glencore Xstrata Plc (GLEN)  and  Randgold
Resources Ltd. (RRS)  face “serious risks” as the country’s 2016
elections approach, Liberum Capital Ltd. said.  An attempt by President  Joseph Kabila  to change the
constitution to seek a third term may destabilize the country,
while an opposition victory may jeopardize titles held by some
miners, the London-based investment bank said today in a note.  “Given the risks in the DRC significantly impact its
copper exposure, we believe Glencore should in fact trade at a
discount,” the bank said. Glencore has two copper projects in
the country that may eventually produce a combined 500,000
metric tons of the metal a year, according to the Baar,
Switzerland-based mining company.  Congo was the world’s eighth-largest source of copper last
year and the biggest producer of cobalt. It is also rich in
gold, diamonds, tin ore and coltan, a material used in
electronics. Glencore Xstrata,  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold
Inc. (FCX)  and  Eurasian Natural Resources Corp. (ENRC)  are the country’s
biggest copper and cobalt producers. Randgold operates the
Kibali gold project, also part-owned by  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)   Randgold Chief Executive Officer  Mark Bristow  said the
Liberum note was “out of context,” given changes in the
country. A spokesman for Glencore declined to comment.  Voluntary Exit  Congo’s 2006 constitution forbids changing the length or
number of terms for the president and was written after 32 years
under the rule of Mobutu Sese Seko, who was overthrown by
Kabila’s father. The country’s 2011 elections, in which Joseph
Kabila was re-elected to a second term, were disputed by the
opposition and criticized by observers from the European Union
and the country’s Catholic church.  Liberum “assumes” Kabila will amend the constitution to
run again. If he doesn’t, “whether his voluntary exit would
ensure stability is another matter entirely,” it said. “It is
dependent on how the country’s institutions and other political
candidates strengthen and mature towards the elections.”  “For me the report is sensational and it’s out of
context,” Randgold’s Bristow said by phone today from Austin,
 Texas . “If you look at the changes on the ground both in
Kinshasa and in eastern DRC, it’s a very different place today
than in 2002” when the country was still at war, he said.  Congo’s recent military success against the M23 rebel group
and attempts to improve diplomatic relations with its neighbors
are signs of progress, Bristow said.  The 2016 elections shouldn’t effect Randgold’s operations
in the country, he said. “Our business is structured in such a
way that we’ll survive political change,” Bristow said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  