-- Credit Suisse Partner Offers to Exit China Venture Before Merger
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-22T10:11:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/credit-suisse-partner-offers-to-exit-china-venture-before-merger.html
Founder Securities Co.,  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ’s Chinese partner, will offer to pull out of a
five-year-old investment banking venture with the Swiss bank as
it prepares to acquire a competitor.  Founder plans to offer Credit Suisse the option to request
that the Chinese brokerage sell part or all of its 66.7 percent
stake in Credit Suisse Founder Securities Co., the Changsha-based firm said in a  statement  to  Shanghai ’s stock exchange
today. Founder said it’s working on a proposal to acquire Minzu
Securities Co., which also has an investment-banking business.  The proposals follow the Chinese government’s announcement
a week ago of policy changes that portend the end of a 14-month
ban on initial public offerings that had damped brokerages’
investment-banking revenue.  China  last year relaxed rules to let
foreign investment banks increase their stakes in domestic joint
ventures to 49 percent from 33 percent.  Policy makers will push forward on a so-called registration
system on IPOs, according to a Nov. 15  statement  posted on the
Chinese government’s website detailing decisions from a meeting
of the Communist Party’s  Central Committee  last week. The system
may hasten the approval process for the more than 700 companies
still awaiting regulatory permission to proceed with share
sales.  Credit Suisse owns one-third of its venture with Founder,
which competes with similar partnerships between Chinese firms
and global banks including UBS AG,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. Foreign banks are allowed to underwrite
stocks and bonds in China only through joint ventures with local
firms.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  