-- Cruz Denies Washington Outsider Needed in 2016 Race (Transcript)
-- B y
-- 2013-11-22T21:55:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/cruz-denies-washington-outsider-needed-in-2016-race-transcript-.html
Senator  Ted Cruz , a  Texas 
Republican, said in an interview with Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend, that
the next president should be “someone who’s leading the fight
for free-market principles and the Constitution,” and who isn’t
listening to “the established politicians.”  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT: Welcome and we’re joined today by the junior
senator from Texas, Ted Cruz. Senator, thank you for being with
us.  TED CRUZ: Al, it’s great to join you.  HUNT: Big fight in the Senate this week over the rules
change. Republicans are furious at what Harry Reid did. The
atmosphere was pretty bad, anyway. This isn’t really going to
change anything, is it?  CRUZ: Well, it’s unfortunate. It’s yet another abuse of
power by the Democrats. And, frankly, it’s continuing the same
pattern we’ve seen with Obamacare. It is a pattern of smoke and
mirrors.  HUNT: Will it complicate passing budgets or debt ceilings
or anything?  CRUZ: Of course it will. I mean, it will poison the
atmosphere of the Senate, but, you know, it’s also an
illustration of the Democrats breaking their word. Just like
President Obama said, if you like your plan, you can keep it.
And he said it over and over again. We now know that at the time
he said that, he knew it was false.  Harry Reid  has said over and over again this year that he
was not going to break the Senate rules to change them and he
just broke his word.  HUNT: Let’s talk about Obamacare. You were denounced,
including by some members of your own party, for insisting the
repeal of the affordable healthcare act had to be part of the
continuing resolution. Since then – and, of course, Republicans
capitulated – since then, the rollout has been a disaster. There
have been other problems.  In light of this different environment, do you think when
the CR comes up again in January, are you going to insist that
repeal of Obamacare be a condition to that?  CRUZ: Well, I think there will be plenty of time to worry
about the specific tactical steps. What I think is critical is
that we keep focus on Obamacare and on fixing things -  HUNT: But, do you want to tweak it or change it in January?  CRUZ: I think what we need to do is repeal in its entirety.  HUNT: You think you have a better shot at doing something
in January than you did in October?  CRUZ: I think every day that people see how Obamacare isn’t
working, how it’s killing jobs, how it’s forcing people into
part-time work, how it’s causing premiums to skyrocket and how
it’s caused already over 5 million people to lose their health
insurance, every day people see that, I think the sentiment for
just starting over, for saying as a pragmatic matter, this thing
isn’t working, let’s start over. I think that sentiment grows.  HUNT: We talked about the budget resolution. The debt
ceiling is coming up in February. That also passed last month
with no conditions. You have said that’s the “best leverage” –
that’s a quote – that the Congress has to really rein in the
president. The debt is due in February; what conditions would
you like to see placed on that?  CRUZ: Well, you know, we’ve seen historically, the last 55
times the debt ceiling has been raised, half of them, Congress
has put significant spending restraints on the executive. And
the sad thing is when President Obama became president; we had
roughly $10 trillion in national debt. We now have over $17
trillion; bigger than the size of our entire economy.  And all across the country, people understand what we’re
doing -  HUNT: You stick conditions on the debt ceiling this time,
do you believe?  CRUZ: I certainly hope that Congress uses the debt ceiling
to insist upon real reform.  HUNT: If you repeal Obamacare, the affordable health-care
act, you also would repeal a provision that would give the right
to millions of people with pre-existing conditions to get
insurance coverage.  So, if you repeal it, would you replace that provision and
how, or would you just go back to the status quo?  CRUZ: Well, I think there are lots of positive reforms we
can do.  HUNT: But, on pre-existing conditions, what would you do?  CRUZ: Well, you can look at what a lot of the states have
done, which is high-risk pools, which expands coverage. But, I
think the most important reform we can do after we repeal
Obamacare or even in conjunction with repealing Obamacare, is
allowing people to purchase insurance across state lines because
if you want to expand coverage, what you want to do is you want
more choices and you want to have lower costs.  HUNT: Will that affect many of those people with pre-existing conditions? I mean, don’t you need some kind of special
protection for them?  CRUZ: Well, and many states had high-risk pools that
actually Obamacare is causing to be shut down.  HUNT: Well, but I’m – you know, Obamacare may be doing
that, but I’m just talking about the people with pre-existing
conditions. What do you do for them?  CRUZ: I think there are plenty of legal provisions you can
do. I’ll tell you one of the key ways to address pre-existing
conditions is with portability. You know, right now, if you or I
lose our jobs, we don’t lose our  life insurance , our car
insurance, our house insurance. There’s no reason we should lose
our health insurance.  And it’s the worst ones …  HUNT: But, these are some people who don’t have insurance.  CRUZ: But, my point is, that’s where much of the problem
with pre-existing conditions comes from is when someone has
coverage, has a job, they lose their job and then they can’t get
new health insurance because they have a pre-existing condition.  If your health insurance could be like your car insurance,
if it could be portable, it could go with you from job to job,
that solves an enormous amount of the problem with pre-existing
conditions and you can solve the rest of it with high-risk
pools, which Obamacare is eliminating.  And right now, the undeniable fact, more people have lost
their health insurance because of Obamacare than have gotten
health insurance because of Obamacare. The thing isn’t working.
It’s simple pragmatics.  HUNT: Let me turn to foreign policy. You have expressed
outrage at the Iranians’ imprisonment of a Christian pastor. Do
you think the president has done enough to protest this and
should we consider cutting off all talks with the Iranians until
this is resolved?  CRUZ: Well, the case you bring up is really heartbreaking.
It’s Pastor Saeed Abedini, who is an American. He was born in
 Iran , his wife and two small children are in  Idaho .  And a little over a year ago, he was in Iran building an
orphanage there and he was imprisoned and sentenced to eight
years in prison simply for sharing his Christian faith.  HUNT: So, what should we do?  CRUZ: Well, we should be speaking out vigorously.  HUNT: Is the president doing that?  CRUZ: The president raised it with President Rouhani and
I’ll tell you, Al, I praise the president for doing that. That
was the right thing to do, but we should continue to be – the
idea that we’re negotiating right now with Iran to lift
sanctions in exchange for a deal that wouldn’t require -  HUNT: Should we not do that until that pastor is released
or even talk?  CRUZ: I think – I’ve introduced a resolution to the Senate
that said a precondition for any discussion is that they release
prisoners of conscience, including Pastor Abedini.  And I think this administration is making a mistake
negotiating with Iran when they’re not even offering to
dismantle a centrifuge -  HUNT: If that’s wrong, if that’s a bad, bad agreement,
interim or not, should the  United States  seriously consider a
military strike against the Iranian nuclear facility and if so,
should the president seek the authorization of Congress to do
so?  CRUZ: What I think the president should do and what I think
a responsible president would do is make absolutely clear that
under no circumstances will Iran be allowed to acquire nuclear-weapons capability  HUNT: And if they don’t agree to that, should we strike?  CRUZ: And then we would use any and all means necessary to
prevent them, including overwhelming military force.  HUNT: And should the president seek authority from Congress
to do that?  CRUZ: Well, there have been repeated discussions with
congress about Iran. There is overwhelming support in Congress.  HUNT: So, in your view, should he seek -  CRUZ: You know, the difficulty with a specific military
action, particularly with the element of surprise, is that a
commander-in-chief cannot publicly announce the specific time or
what it intends.  So, ongoing consultation with Congress is important, but
part of the value of drawing that line is it decreases the
changes you’ll actually have to use necessary force. Iran will
keep working towards acquiring nuclear weapons capability unless
they believe the consequences of doing so are more significant,
and right now I think this administration’s weakness on this
policy is having the effect of encouraging Iran to move faster
towards acquiring nukes and if it acquired nukes, I think the
chances are unacceptable they would use those nuclear weapons
against Americans or against our allies like  Israel .  HUNT: Just a political question before we go, Senator.  Governor  Scott Walker  of  Wisconsin  says, Ted Cruz is a good
guy. He likes you, likes a lot of what you do, but he says -  CRUZ: Whoa, please don’t hold that against me.  HUNT: You should not be considered as a 2016 presidential
candidate because you’re a  Washington  person and the party needs
to turn to people outside Washington. Is he right?  CRUZ: I’ll tell you this; I agree with Governor Walker that
 Hillary Clinton  would make a very poor president. So on that, we
are on the same page  CRUZ: I like Scott Walker. I think he’s done a good job
standing up to unions in his state. What I think the next
president should be is someone who is leading the fight for
free-market principles and the Constitution, someone who’s
listening to the American people, not listening to the
established politicians.  HUNT: So, I’m not putting words in your mouth to say that
doesn’t matter if they’re inside or outside of Washington if
they -  CRUZ: What I think matters is, are they fighting to bring
back economic growth, to restore free-market principles, to
bring back jobs, to bring back the Constitution and are they
listening to the American people?  HUNT: You’re just -  CRUZ: The greatest frustration people have in this country
right now is that Washington politicians aren’t listening.  HUNT: You’re describing a real bona-fide conservative. Is
 Chris Christie  a bona-fide conservative?  CRUZ: Well, they’ll be plenty of time -  HUNT: But, what do you think? You’ve looked at him, you’ve
read a lot of him, you’ve seen him. Tell me what you’re gut
feels right now.  CRUZ: Look, Al, I know you want me to criticize other -  HUNT: No, I don’t. You can praise him.  CRUZ: But, I’m not going to do that. I like Chris Christie,
I’m glad he was re-elected. I think his blunt, brash style is
refreshing and I think we need a lot more people in Washington
who have the courage to stand up against Obamacare, against the
failed Obama economic policy and turn our country around. We are
facing a fiscal and economic cliff and we need real leadership
to pull back from it.  HUNT: Are you going to run in ’16?  CRUZ: My focus is on the Senate. Good try.  HUNT: It was a good try. Senator Ted Cruz, thank you so
much for being with us.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP. 