-- Dorchester Seeks to Add Luxury Hotels From New York to Asia
-- B y   A n n a   E d w a r d s   a n d   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2013-11-22T11:51:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/dorchester-seeks-to-open-luxury-hotels-in-new-york-asian-cities.html
Dorchester Collection is seeking to
add to a group of hotels that have hosted celebrities from
 Marilyn Monroe  to  Queen Elizabeth II  by opening properties in
New York and Asia.  “Beijing, Shanghai,  Hong Kong  and Singapore are cities
where we’d like to be represented,” Christopher Cowdray, chief
executive officer of the Brunei Investment Agency-owned company,
said in a Bloomberg Television interview. “We would like to be
in New York and that’s really our key focus.”  Dorchester Collection is planning properties in Asia as
competitors do the same, pushing down luxury-hotel occupancy
rates and prices. Marriott International Inc. opened six Ritz-Carltons in Asia in October, while  Starwood Hotels & Resorts
Worldwide Inc. (HOT) , owner of the luxury St. Regis and W brands, said
in September it plans to open 177 hotels in the region within
four years.  In Beijing, the average daily rate at luxury hotels fell
3.7 percent in the first nine months from a year earlier, as
occupancy dropped 6 percent and the number of rooms rose 2.7
percent, according to data compiled by researcher STR Global. In
New York, the average daily rate rose 5.2 percent, while the
number of rooms fell 0.7 percent.  Famous Guests  Dorchester Collection owns 10 hotels including the London
property where Queen Elizabeth had dinner before her engagement
was announced, and where her husband Prince Philip had his
bachelor party, according to the company’s website. The Beverly
Hills hotel hosted  Elizabeth Taylor , Marilyn Monroe,  John Wayne 
and  Frank Sinatra , among others.  The London-based company has hotels in Los Angeles, Paris,
Rome and Geneva. Dorchester Collection owned the New York Palace
Hotel before selling it to Northwood Investors LLC in 2011. The
hotel company has never had a property in Asia, spokeswoman
Julia Record said by phone.  Unlike most of its properties, the new hotels would carry
the Dorchester name, Cowdray said.  “The existing hotels have strong brand names. It would be
sacrilege to destroy that,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Edwards in London at 
 aedwards49@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  