-- Druckenmiller Shorting IBM in Bet Cloud Computing to Win
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n   a n d   J o s h u a   F i n e m a n
-- 2013-11-22T21:18:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/druckenmiller-shorting-ibm-in-bet-cloud-computing-to-win.html
Stan Druckenmiller, who has one of
the best track records in the hedge-fund industry over the past
three decades, said he’s betting against the shares of
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  because the company’s
business will be replaced by technology such as cloud computing.  “It’s one of the more higher-probability shorts I have
seen in years,” Druckenmiller, 60, said in an interview with
Bloomberg TV’s  Stephanie Ruhle  at the Robin Hood Investors
Conference in New York today. “IBM is old technology being
replaced by cloud technology.”  IBM fell 1.9 percent to $180.53 at 3:07 p.m. in New York.
James Sciales, a spokesman for Armonk, New York-based IBM,
didn’t immediately respond a phone call and e-mail requesting
comment on Druckenmiller’ wager.  IBM’s sales have dropped for six straight quarters as the
growth of services such as cloud computing have failed to make
up for slowing demand for older businesses like hardware. The
company is selling less-profitable divisions and is devoting
cash to stock repurchases to help reach its forecast for growth
in earnings per share.  IBM said last month that it added $15 billion to its
buyback plan, part of Chief Executive Officer Ginni Rometty’s
plan to achieve $20 in adjusted earnings a share by 2015, up
from $15.25 last year. The hardware unit, which makes servers
and other devices for business users, reported a loss last
quarter.  Amazon ‘Challenge’  Druckenmiller said he is betting on  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , and
praised CEO  Jeff Bezos . Amazon’s Web Services division, whose
server farms generate the processing power the retailer sells to
heavy corporate data users on the cheap, “is killing it,” he
said. IBM should be investing in its business and taking on the
“challenge of the Amazons of the world” instead of doing share
 buybacks , according to Druckenmiller.  “I think he’s a serial monopolist,” Druckenmiller said of
Amazon’s Bezos.  Shares of IBM were down 3.9 percent  this year  through
yesterday, compared with a 26 percent gain for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index and a 47 percent gain for Amazon. If IBM ends
the year in negative territory, it will be its first annual
decline since 2008. Rometty took over as CEO in January 2012.  IBM’s backers include billionaire  Warren Buffett , who has
said long-term investors should root for IBM shares to languish
in the short term, giving it a lower price to repurchase stock.  Druckenmiller said that while he has great respect for
Buffett, “I don’t think technology is his area of expertise. He
has often said that.”  Recommending Google  Druckenmiller described Google Inc. as the most
“innovative company on the planet,” citing the company’s web-enabled eyeglasses and self-driving cars. He said investors who
want to bet on innovation should buy shares of Google and those
who want to bet against innovation should buy IBM shares.  Druckenmiller, a former chief strategist for billionaire
 George Soros , shut his hedge-fund firm three years ago and now
manages his own wealth through his Duquesne Family Office LLC.
From 1986 through 2010, he produced average annual returns of 30
percent at his hedge fund Duquesne Capital Management LLC.  Druckenmiller said that while his returns over the last 10
years were “very subpar,” they are superior to what’s in the
market today.  Hedge funds  have returned an average of 6.9
percent this year through October, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Druckenmiller said he doesn’t share hedge-fund manager
 David Tepper ’s view that the stock market as a “no-brainer
opportunity.” Still, Druckenmiller said he doesn’t see anything
to change the rising trend of the market.  He said in September that he had only a few small trades on
as he waited to see who might replace Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  when he steps down at the end of January. Vice
Chairman  Janet Yellen  has since been nominated to the post and
is awaiting confirmation by the Senate.  In May, Druckenmiller said investors should bet against the
Australian dollar. The currency has since fallen about 9.8
percent against the  U.S. dollar .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saijel Kishan in  New York  at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Fineman in New York at 
 jfineman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  