-- Duke Said to Work With Citigroup on Sale of Midwest Plants
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M o n k s   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2013-11-22T19:39:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/duke-said-to-work-with-citigroup-on-sale-of-midwest-plants-1-.html
Duke Energy Corp. (DUK) , the largest U.S.
utility owner, is working with  Citigroup Inc. (C)  on plans to sell
more than a dozen Midwestern power plants, according to people
familiar with the matter.  While a sales process hasn’t started, bidders expect to be
asked to submit offers in early 2014, said the people, who asked
not to be identified because the matter is private. The plants
may fetch $1.5 billion to $2 billion together, the people said.  Duke,  American Electric Power Co. (AEP)  and other utilities have
struggled to maintain profitability from Midwestern plants that
sell power on the wholesale market run by PJM Interconnection
LLC from Chicago to Washington. PJM prices have fallen by more
than half since 2008, due to lower industrial demand and a glut
of cheap natural gas.  Duke rose 0.5 percent to $71.13 at 2:37 p.m. in  New York 
trading. The company has a market value of about $50 billion.  The plants Duke may sell comprise the bulk of its
commercial power segment, which earned $27 million in the third
quarter, down from $41 million in the second, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg. The plants have total capacity of about
6,800 megawatts; more than half burn coal and the rest burn
natural gas.  Duke Chief Executive Officer Lynn Good has told investors
the company would wait for a regulatory decision about how much
it can charge customers for costs that exceed market-based
prices before determining the fate of the Midwest plants.  Strategic Question  Duke, based in  Charlotte , North Carolina, doesn’t comment
on mergers and acquisitions,  Tom Williams , a spokesman, said
today in a telephone interview. Rob Julavits, a spokesman for
Citigroup, also declined to comment.  Whether to sell them is “certainly a strategic question
that we’ll need to answer,” Good said on a conference call to
discuss earnings on Nov. 6, according to a transcript compiled
by Bloomberg.  Duke wants to bill  Ohio  electric customers an additional
$729 million through May 31, 2015, for power-plant related costs
not included in current rates. The company is focused on winning
approval of that request from the Public Utilities Commission of
Ohio by the end of the year, Good said.  Duke supplies electricity to 7.2 million customers in  North
Carolina , South Carolina, Indiana, Ohio, Kentucky and Florida,
according to its website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Monks in New York at 
 mmonks1@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  