-- The U.S.’s Most Frustrating Ally
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-11-22T19:14:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/the-u-s-s-most-frustrating-ally.html
U.S. officials must be heartily sick
of Afghan President  Hamid Karzai , whose latest wheeze has been
to announce that a vital deal to retain a long-term U.S.
military presence in his country cannot be signed until after
elections next year.  In response, President Barack Obama’s administration has
said it needs a finished deal by the end of 2013. No doubt
waiting until May to begin preparations for the stay-behind
force would be hard. Mainly, though, the U.S. ultimatum appears
designed to push back against Karzai’s heavy-handed tactics.  The agreement, which was announced this week, would enable
about 10,000 U.S. troops to remain in Afghanistan after the main
allied force withdraws next year, training and supporting the
newly built Afghan army as it takes on the Taliban alone. When
Karzai presented the draft  agreement  to the tribal loya jirga
yesterday, he recommended its approval, but said he wouldn’t
sign it until after presidential elections in April -- in part
because he didn’t trust the U.S., which had made “propaganda”
about him.  Afghanistan’s loya jirga and parliament must decide for
themselves whether they will be better off with or without U.S.
military support. The U.S., however, shouldn’t bind itself to
ultimatums that will put its policy into the hands of the
erratic, lame-duck president. The test of this agreement’s value
should be whether it contributes to the U.S.’s long-term
security goals. So it’s important keep in mind what those are.  The draft Security and Defense Cooperation Agreement posted
on the Afghan foreign ministry’s website would enable a limited
U.S. force to stay in Afghanistan until 2024. That presence is
designed to ensure that the Taliban doesn’t re-establish itself,
possibly returning the country to a radical Islamist state and a
haven for terrorist groups such as al-Qaeda. A smaller
counterterrorist force would remain to help fight any remnants
of al-Qaeda, now much debilitated and based in Pakistan.  These two goals were worth fighting for in 2001, and they
are today, even with a price that could reach $10 billion a
year, more than half of which would go to funding and equipping
the Afghan National Army. That’s a lot of money, given neglected
U.S. commitments elsewhere, but the alternative is a resurgent
conflict, a revived al-Qaeda, lost progress and diminished U.S.
leverage. You don’t have to go far to imagine what that would
look like -- it’s a description of Iraq, where the U.S. failed
to agree a continued military presence after withdrawal.  Ultimately, 10,000 to 15,000 foreign troops can’t be
expected to defeat the Taliban where as many as 140,000 failed.
Yet a U.S. stay-behind force is the best among imperfect
alternatives and consistent with allied strategy in Afghanistan
to date: to build an Afghan army that can keep the peace when
international forces leave. Commitment to a longer-term U.S.
military presence, with the air power and logistical support
that entails, might convince Taliban leaders that they can’t win
against this new army either, and should consider peace talks.  A U.S. presence would also help with the effort to persuade
Pakistan and Afghanistan to a more stable rapprochement. And it
might persuade the warlords in Kabul to stop rebuilding private
armies against the day when the central government begins to
crumble. You would think that Karzai would value these goals,
too.  One of the few British survivors of the First Anglo-Afghan
War scathingly  described  the 1839-1842 campaign as “a war begun
for no wise purpose, carried on with a strange mixture of
rashness and timidity, brought to a close after suffering and
disaster, without much glory.” The hope that U.S. soldiers
don’t end up with a similarly brutal verdict after retiring
defeated from this “ graveyard  of empires” rests on staying to
help the Afghan army survive.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 