-- EADS Works Council Sees Talks on Job Cuts Dragging Out Into 2014
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   B r a u t l e c h t
-- 2013-11-22T11:44:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/eads-works-council-sees-talks-on-job-cuts-dragging-out-into-2014.html
European Aeronautic, Defence & Space (EAD) 
Co.’s works council expects negotiations with management about
job cuts to drag into next year as the two sides haggle over the
fallout from combining the defense and space units.  Talks will start after the management has informed
employees on Dec. 9 and 10 on its strategy and the savings it
sees from merging the operations, EADS European works council
head Ruediger Luetjen said in an interview in Hamburg.  “I have been a works council representative for more than
25 years and have experienced many restructurings, but I have
never seen a management concept to be implemented in its
original version,” Luetjen said after a press conference in
Hamburg, where EADS unit Airbus has a major production site.  EADS plans to move to a merged defense and space unit in
July next year after struggling to build up the military
business as European governments pare spending. The plan, which
will mostly affect employees in  Germany  and  France , is part of a
revamp that will see the entire business take the name of
jetliner unit Airbus.  According to Luetjen, the works council hasn’t yet been
informed on the number of job reductions. He said he cannot
comment on figures, including 8,000 reductions cited by German
news wire Deutsche Presse Agentur, yesterday.  “I can neither confirm that 8,000 jobs are cut nor 6,000
or 7,000, I just don’t know it, as it has not been a topic in
the meetings with the management so far,” he said.  The works council in conjunction with  IG Metall , one of
Germany’s most powerful unions, plans a day of protests at five
locations in Northern Germany on Nov. 28. The action will take
place at the Airbus factories in Hamburg, Bremen and Stade as
well as the Premium Aerotec sites in Varel and Nordenham.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Brautlecht in Hamburg at 
 nbrautlecht@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  