-- ECB Said to Consider Cypriot Police Demand in Bailout Probe
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2013-11-22T17:07:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/ecb-said-to-consider-cypriot-police-demand-in-bailout-probe.html
The  European Central Bank  is
considering whether to let Cypriot police see confidential
documents as part of a criminal probe into emergency lending by
the Cypriot central bank, two euro-area officials with knowledge
of the matter said.  Policy makers discussed this week whether they can comply
with a demand to the Cypriot central bank for ECB documents
related to Emergency Liquidity Assistance and minutes of
Governing Council meetings where the program was discussed, said
the people, who asked not to be named as the talks aren’t
public. The application was passed to the ECB’s legal committee,
they said. The ECB declined to comment. A spokesman for the
Cypriot police force also declined to comment or provide details
on the investigation.  The affair risks dragging the ECB into a political battle
that has haunted Cyprus for months, threatening to undermine the
independence of the Cypriot central bank and the Frankfurt-based
institution. Tension between the Cypriot central bank and the
government over the country’s bailout this year have escalated,
and President Nicos Anastasiades said in September he was
considering legal action to remove Governor Panicos Demetriades
because of his “shortcomings.”  Demetriades has said that he’s been subject to allegations
of wrongdoing in a campaign to force his resignation.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  wrote to European Commission
President  Jose Manuel Barroso  to request assistance on the
probe, one of the people said. The Governing Council of the
Frankfurt-based ECB is concerned about any threat to its
independence from a criminal prosecution involving monetary-policy operations, the person said.  Police Deadline  Cyprus’s Office for the Investigation of Financial Crime
has set a deadline of Nov. 29 for delivery of relevant central
bank documents, one of the people said.  As well as records of Governing Council meetings, it
requested documents such as applications by the Cypriot central
bank for ECB permission for loans to banks and details of funds
received by the  Bank of Cyprus  and Cyprus Popular Bank,
previously the island’s two biggest lenders, they said.  The dispute between Anastasiades and Demetriades in part
stems from a disagreement over  capital controls  during bailout
negotiations and emergency liquidity lending.  Anastasiades’ main complaint was described in a letter to
Draghi dated April 15. In it, the central bank chief was accused
of keeping the now-defunct Laiki Bank artificially afloat with
ELA funds throughout the second half of 2012 to enable the
country to reach elections in February 2013 without needing a
bailout.  Lending Program  “I have to say that I’m examining and documenting all the
things that make up his shortcomings or lack of adequacy in the
execution of his responsibilities,” Anastasiades said on
Cyprus’s Mega TV on Sept. 18, adding he was looking into
referring the matter to the  Supreme Court . Demetriades has said
he won’t resign under pressure.  The ELA has been used in countries including Ireland and
 Belgium  to provide liquidity to lenders that don’t have
acceptable collateral to access funds at normal ECB tenders.
While the loans are technically the responsibility of the
national central bank, the Governing Council must consent to
their use and votes on their continuance every two weeks.  As tensions between the central bank and the president
escalated in the run-up the bailout, Demetriades said in a
Bloomberg interview in April he’d received death threats and
that his ability to run the central bank was being undermined.  Under EU law, a governor of a Eurosystem member can only be
removed from office through incapacity or if found guilty of
serious misconduct. Draghi said last month he takes a “dim
view” of any attempt to undermine central bank independence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fergal O’Brien in London at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  