-- Mediaset Espana Sees End to Contraction of TV Ad Market
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2013-11-22T17:13:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/mediaset-espana-sees-end-to-contraction-of-spain-s-tv-ad-market.html
Spain ’s television advertising
market will probably end 10 consecutive quarters of shrinkage in
the final three months of this year, according to broadcaster
 Mediaset Espana Comunicacion SA. (TL5)   “In December there’s still a bit of uncertainty, but we
expect the TV ad market to be flat in the fourth quarter,”
Chief Financial Officer Javier Uria said in an interview today.
In the third quarter, spending  dropped  3 percent, according to
the Madrid-based company.  The recovery is driven by spending by telecommunications
companies, said Uria, who was attending an investor conference
organized by Morgan Stanley. Spending grew about 2 percent to 3
percent in October and will be little changed this month from a
year ago, he added. Telefonica SA and  Jazztel Plc (JAZ)  are among
phone companies competing for broadband Internet customers.  Spain’s economy grew 0.1 percent last quarter, marking the
first expansion in Europe’s fourth-largest economy since the
first quarter of 2011. Under Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy , the
country imposed the deepest budget cuts in its democratic
history, weighing on  consumer spending  and deterring companies
from spending to promote their products.  Total ad spending in Spain, which has contracted by about
half since 2007, will still probably decrease by more than 11
percent this year, according to researcher Zenith Vigia.  Mediaset Espana, which holds a 22 percent stake in
 Promotora de Informaciones SA ’s pay-TV business, is closely
monitoring whether Prisa is selling the unit, Uria said. Prisa
owns 56 percent of Digital Plus, while Telefonica holds the
remaining 22 percent.  “We are comfortable and happy with our minority stake as
we have a positive relationship operationally and a good
shareholder agreement,” he said. “But things could change and
if that happens we will have to react and make the best decision
in our interest.”  Mediaset Espana shares rose 5.2 percent to close at 8.35
euros in  Madrid  today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Barcelona at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  