-- Emerging Stocks Rise on German Confidence as Real Climbs
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e   a n d   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2013-11-22T21:56:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/emerging-stocks-rise-as-technology-firms-gain-while-baht-falls.html
Emerging-market stocks gained,
capping a second weekly advance, as a surge in German business
confidence bolstered optimism about global growth.  Brazil ’s real
jumped on speculation airport concessions will boost inflows.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index advanced 0.5 percent to
1,009.17. The Borsa Istanbul National 100 Index jumped to a two-week high, while OAO RusHydro paced a rally in Russian utility
shares. China Life Insurance Co. drove financial companies
higher. The real led gains among the 31 major currencies tracked
by Bloomberg as the government sold Brazil’s second-busiest
airport for nearly four times the minimum bid.  Stocks joined gains in global equities after data showed
German business confidence surged to the highest level in more
than 1 1/2 years, signaling that the recovery in  Europe ’s
largest economy remains on track. Today’s airport auction in
Brazil is part of a program by President  Dilma Rousseff  to
attract investments to modernize infrastructure and boost
expansion in  Latin America ’s largest economy.  “Confidence is good,” Kevin Caron, a Florham Park, New
Jersey-based market strategist at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., which
oversees about $150 billion, said by phone. “Improving
confidence on the part of business would be something you’d look
for if you’re expecting to see a pickup in investment in
manufacturing.”  All  10 groups  in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index rose, led
by utility and financial stocks. The iShares MSCI Emerging
Markets Index exchange-traded fund rose 0.7 percent to $42.05.
The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, retreated 3.3 percent to 23.36.  Petrobras Rallies  The Ibovespa snapped two days of losses as miner MMX
Mineracao & Metalicos SA jumped the most in three weeks.
Brazil’s real rallied for the first time in four days. The
Aeroportos do Futuro group led by Odebrecht SA, and including
Singapore airport operator Changi Airport Group, offered 19
billion reais ($8.3 billion) and won the right to operate Galeao
airport in Rio de Janeiro. The offer compares with the minimum
required bid of 4.83 billion reais.  The Borsa Istanbul National 100 Index gained 1.3 percent,
led by Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS. Russia’s Micex Index extended
its weekly advance as RusHydro jumped 3.2 percent. Stock gauges
in the Czech Republic and  Poland  also rose.  The benchmark index for Chinese stocks in  Hong Kong  capped
its biggest weekly gain since December 2011 as insurers climbed,
widening a premium over Shanghai shares. China Life Insurance
jumped 2.7 percent, while Ping An Insurance (Group) Co. rallied
to its highest level since August 2011. Chinese insurers will
outperform in 2014, HSBC Holdings Plc said.  India, Thailand  India ’s S&P BSE Sensex declined for a third week as
concerns the rupee will weaken further offset bullish
recommendations from CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets and Credit Suisse
Group AG.  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT)  slid 2.4 percent, while Cigarette
maker  ITC Ltd. (ITC)  dropped to the lowest in 11 weeks.  Thailand ’s baht had a fourth weekly loss as stocks and
sovereign bonds dropped amid concern political unrest will
further damp economic growth. The baht depreciated 0.8 percent
from a week ago to 31.835 per dollar as of 4:42 p.m. in Bangkok,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The SET Index sank 4.3
percent this week.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries was unchanged at 331 basis points,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  