-- Empire State IPO Opponents Ask Court to Rule Buyout Illegal
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-11-22T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/empire-state-ipo-opponents-ask-court-to-rule-buyout-illegal.html
Opponents of taking  New York  City’s
Empire State Building public asked an appeals court to declare
illegal a provision that could have seen some holders of
ownership units paid $100 a unit if they refused to go along
with a planned initial public offering.  Steven Meister, an attorney representing dissenting unit
holders who opposed including the building in a real estate
investment trust, asked the state  Supreme Court ’s Appellate
Division in  Manhattan  to reverse Justice O. Peter Sherwood’s
ruling in April denying a request to declare the buyout
provision unlawful under state corporation law.  Meister argued that the provision coerced dissidents into
voting in favor of the plan because they faced $100 buyouts on
ownership units that were worth hundreds of thousands of
dollars. Upholding Sherwood’s ruling would “effectively
eviscerate” the rights of the dissenters, he said.  “People were bludgeoned into changing their vote from
dissenters to assenters,” Meister told the court to applause
from opponents of the offering who filled the courtroom, many
wearing blue buttons with a picture of Empire State Building
crossed out by a red line with the words “Illegal Vote”
superimposed.  Empire State Realty Trust Inc., whose properties include
the Empire State Building, sold 71.5 million shares for $13 each
on Oct. 1.  Two-Year Quest  The sale culminated an almost two-year quest by the Empire
State Building’s supervisors,  Peter Malkin  and his son Anthony,
to take the iconic skyscraper and 20 other New York-area
properties public, a process marked by battles with some of the
tower’s longtime investors.  Of about 2,800 Empire State Building legacy unit holders, a
minority challenged the REIT proposal, preferring to keep a
steady income stream and the bragging rights that come with
owning a piece of such an landmark property.  Sherwood in May approved a $55 million settlement of
lawsuits over the plan to take the trust public, allowing it to
move forward. He had earlier rejected a request by investors
opposed to the settlement to intervene in the case, and denied a
bid to declare the $100-a-share buyout provision illegal.  The dissidents had argued that the buyout provision
deprived them of their right to get fair value for their assets
as members of Empire State Building Associates and therefore
violated the state’s limited liability law. Malkin Holdings LLC,
supervisor of the building, claimed they weren’t members and
weren’t entitled to those rights. Sherwood agreed with the
Malkins, and declined to declare the buyout provision illegal.  Unit Holders  The Malkins, who needed 80 percent approval from unit
holders to move forward with the IPO, said they would leave
voting open until Sherwood ruled on the buyout or held a final
hearing on the settlement. They said they gained the necessary
approvals in May.  Thomas E.L. Dewey, an attorney representing the Malkins,
asked the court yesterday to affirm Sherwood’s ruling or dismiss
Meister’s appeal, saying that not every holder of a membership
interest in Empire State Building Associates is a member.  “The IPO has occurred, the stock price is up,” Dewey
said. “There’s no reason to go back and revisit this issue.
This was not some sort of freeze out transaction. All the
investors were treated equally.”  The dissidents say a conversion to a REIT would mean giving
up a reliable income stream that should rise as renovations at
the skyscraper are finished. The Malkins have said their plan
gives unit-holders liquidity, regular dividends and greater
growth opportunities.  The case is Meyers v.  Empire State Realty Trust Inc. (ESRT) ,
650607/2012, New York State Supreme Court, New York County
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan at  cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  