-- Men’s Wearhouse Shunned Bid Can’t Stop Deal Bet: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2013-11-22T21:46:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/men-s-wearhouse-shunned-bid-can-t-stop-deal-bet-real-m-a.html
Traders aren’t buying what  Men’s
Wearhouse Inc. (MW)  is selling.  Men’s Wearhouse rebuffed a $48-a-share offer from rival
 Jos. A. Bank Clothiers Inc. (JOSB)  and refused to let it conduct due
diligence that could have led to a higher bid. Even though the
deadline to hold talks lapsed this month, the stock is still 33
percent  higher  than it was before the proposed deal was made
public in October.  While a takeover target’s stock price often collapses after
a buyer terminates its bid, Mizuho Securities USA Inc. says
Men’s Wearhouse has held up because some investors are still
betting on a takeover. Eminence Capital LLC, the biggest
 shareholder , is pushing for a special meeting so investors can
vote to change the bylaws and overhaul the board. Eminence wants
the company to sell to Jos. A. Bank because it sees the
transaction creating $2 billion of value. At the very least,
pressuring the board may lead to more stock  buybacks , limiting
the downside in the absence of a deal, MKM Partners LLC said.  “The stock is still up a long ways from its original
level,”  Keith Moore , an event-driven strategist at  Stamford ,
Connecticut-based MKM, said in a phone interview. “It’s holding
up because Eminence has a rather strong case, and I don’t think
Eminence is going away.”  Ken Dennard, a spokesman for Houston-based Men’s Wearhouse
who works for Dennard-Lascar Associates LLC, didn’t immediately
respond to a phone call or e-mail requesting comment.  First Approach  Jos. A. Bank said it first approached the board of Men’s
Wearhouse with the $48-a-share offer on Sept. 18, and it
publicly confirmed the proposal Oct. 9. That day, Men’s
Wearhouse rejected the bid, calling it inadequate, and
implemented a poison pill to thwart a hostile takeover.  The offer came three months after Men’s Wearhouse ousted
its founder George Zimmer over disagreements he had with the
board. The bid valued the men’s clothing chain at a 40 percent
premium to its average price in the 20 days leading up to Oct.
9, or about $2.3 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Jos. A. Bank said it might consider increasing the
price if it could see Men’s Wearhouse’s books, and gave the
company until Nov. 14 to entertain deal discussions.  “If, in the future, we are invited by the Men’s Wearhouse
board to discuss our acquisition of Men’s Wearhouse, or if
circumstances were otherwise to change, Jos. A. Bank may
consider whether a new proposal to acquire Men’s Wearhouse is
warranted,” Jos. A. Bank Chairman Robert Wildrick wrote in a
letter Nov. 15. Tom Davies, a spokesman for Hampstead, Maryland-based Jos. A. Bank who works for Kekst & Co., declined to
comment on Eminence’s actions.  Seeking Changes  By allowing the deadline to expire, “the board has
confirmed that it is not committed to exercising its basic
fiduciary duties,” Eminence, the New York-based hedge  fund (QEAAX)  that
has a 9.8 percent  stake  in Men’s Wearhouse, wrote in a Nov. 15
press release. The shareholder also said it’s seeking to hold a
special meeting on Feb. 14 so that investors can vote to change
certain bylaws, permitting them to remove directors without
cause before the company’s next annual  meeting , which will be
later in 2014.  So far, traders are betting that Eminence will be
successful. The stock closed at $46.78 yesterday, compared with
$35.24 before Jos. A. Bank’s offer was disclosed.  Today, Men’s Wearhouse shares rose 2 cents to $46.80.  Stock Strength  “The stock has remained relatively strong in the hope that
there could be a deal at the end of the road,” Betty Chen, a
San Francisco-based analyst at Mizuho, said in a phone
interview. “Eminence Capital is trying to have some say over
the board seats and replace them with ones that are perhaps more
sympathetic towards Eminence’s point of view and persuade them
to do a deal.”  It’s not an easy task, Chen said. The law in  Texas , where
Men’s Wearhouse is based, says that a special meeting can be
called by holders of at least 10 percent of the stock, according
to Eminence’s Nov. 15 statement. The poison pill prevents the
firm from boosting its stake to that level, so it needs to rally
support from other shareholders.  “The board has put up a number of obstacles, and it’s
become a very defensive battle,”  James Post , a corporate
governance and ethics professor at Boston University School of
Management, said in a phone interview. “Eminence has to try to
create a coalition of shareholders that’s big enough to force
the board to pay attention and not simply reject the demands out
of hand.”  Buyback Potential?  A representative for Eminence declined to comment on the
challenges it may face, referring instead to Men’s Wearhouse’s
bylaws. According to company filings, shareholders representing
two-thirds of the stock are needed to vote for amendments to the
bylaws, while a plurality of votes is needed to elect new
directors at the company’s annual meeting.  Investors’ downside is limited by the potential for share
buybacks, which the board of Men’s Wearhouse may feel pressured
to do to keep the stock price up in the absence of a deal, MKM’s
Moore said. The board approved a $200 million share-repurchase
plan in March, of which $152 million has been used.  “There’s no way a buyback can compete with the value you
create with a merger,” Ricky Sandler, chief executive officer
of Eminence, said in phone interview earlier this week. He said
he also would be “very happy” with Men’s Wearhouse buying the
smaller Jos. A. Bank.  Drawn Out  It’s going to take “quite a few months” for Eminence’s
efforts to play out, MKM’s Moore said. Some investors may not be
willing to wait that long.  Thomas Kirchner, manager of the Quaker Event Arbitrage Fund
in Malvern,  Pennsylvania , said he sold out of Men’s Wearhouse
because it’s shaping up to be a “drawn-out saga.”  “We prefer situations where we are on a clear path to a
resolution,” Kirchner said in a phone interview. “This is
something where you now have a war going on, and generally
that’s not a good situation for investors. Management is
distracted by having to fight the activist and meeting with
advisers and lawyers, rather than taking care of the business.”  The better approach would have been for Men’s Wearhouse to
put itself up for sale and see if it received a more attractive
offer, and if it didn’t, it could remain a standalone, he said.  It’s not imperative for Men’s Wearhouse to combine with
another company, in part because it has a solid  balance sheet 
and is able to generate  cash flow  to support growth on its own,
Chen of Mizuho said.  Better Together  Even so, Eminence, which says it also owns 1.4 million Jos.
A. Bank shares,  argues  that the two companies would be better
together. The firm estimates $75 million to $125 million of
costs could be cut by combining the retailers, and that $175
million to $390 million of so-called synergies could be achieved
from being able to cross-sell brands and products such as
tuxedos.  Together, they’d have a market value of $4.88 billion,
according to Eminence’s analysis. That’s about $2 billion more
than the sum of their market values before the proposal was made
public and $1.2 billion more than yesterday.  While it’s unlikely that Men’s Wearhouse and Jos. A. Bank
negotiate a friendly deal, it can’t be ruled out, according to
 Richard Jaffe , a New York-based analyst at Stifel Financial
Corp. The company needs to determine whether its long-term goals
as a standalone company will lead to a higher price than what
Jos. A. Bank is willing to pay now, he said.  “The board is between a rock and a hard place,” Jaffe
said in a phone interview. “They probably recognize the merit
to management’s long-term outlook for the company because there
are a lot of really good things percolating, but also recognize
their responsibility to shareholders to provide the best value
on a very time-sensitive basis.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsey Rupp in  New York  at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  