-- England Collapse Gives Australia Edge in Ashes Cricket Test
-- B y   B e n   P r i e c h e n f r i e d
-- 2013-11-22T10:43:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/england-collapse-gives-australia-edge-in-ashes-cricket-test.html
England collapsed to 136 all out
today to leave Australia in charge of the first Ashes cricket
Test with a 224-run lead going into day three.  Only two English players made it past 20 at the Gabba
stadium in Brisbane. Opener Michael Carberry, playing his second
Test, top-scored with 40 before he was caught by  Shane Watson 
off the bowling of  Mitchell Johnson , who took 4-61 for the
hosts. Six visiting players failed to reach double figures as
England went from 82-2 to all out in little more than 20 overs.  “You always like to have a guy with Mitch’s pace in your
team,”  Brad Haddin , Australia’s wicketkeeper, told reporters at
the end of the day’s play. “Any guy who can push the radar up
near 150 kilometers (93 miles per hour), no matter how well
you’re playing, can make it uncomfortable for the opposition.”  Australia chose to bat and reached 295 in its first innings
as  Stuart Broad  took 6 wickets for England, which is trying to
win the cricket series for a fourth consecutive time.  Carberry built partnerships of nearly 30 with Alastair Cook, Jonathan Trott and Kevin Pietersen before Johnson and Ryan
Harris, who took 3-18, swept through the top of the order.
Spinner Nathan Lyon dismissed  Ian Bell  and Matt Prior in
consecutive deliveries. Stuart Broad provided the only
resistance lower-down the batting order, scoring 32 before being
caught by  Chris Rogers  off Peter Siddle.  Australia finished the second day 65-0, with David Warner
on 45 and Rogers on 15, starting to build a lead that England
will have to chase over the final days.  “We know there are still three days to go in the game so
we are not totally out of it yet,” Carberry told Sky Sports.
“We have just got to come out tomorrow and fight hard.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Priechenfried in London at 
 bprie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  