-- Merkel’s Bavarian Allies Take Shot at SPD as Final Talks Loom
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-11-22T18:36:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/merkel-s-bavarian-allies-take-shot-at-spd-as-final-talks-loom.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s Bavarian
allies warned the Social Democrats to reel in their spending
demands, citing “difficult days” ahead as they aim to complete
talks to form a German government by the middle of next week.  While Merkel told a convention of the Bavarian  Christian
Social Union  that the negotiations can’t be about sticking to
“red lines,” CSU delegates attacked the SPD for making
excessive spending demands even after the party lost to Merkel
in the Sept. 22 election. Merkel’s bloc and the SPD want to wrap
up two months of coalition talks on Nov. 27.  “The SPD has to recognize that it lost the election,” CSU
General Secretary Alexander Dobrindt, a lead negotiator, told
the party meeting in Munich. “We can only talk on that basis.”  Merkel confronted increased resistance to a so-called grand
coalition this week from within her bloc as she warned her
 Christian Democratic Union  that the party will have to concede
to the SPD’s demand for a nationwide  minimum wage .  The chancellor repeated to the Bavarian delegates that
“we’ll have to compromise,” as CSU Chairman  Horst Seehofer 
said their faction will move forward to lock in an agreement in
five days. Party chiefs will meet on Nov. 25 in Berlin to thrash
out differences before negotiators come together the next day to
finalize the talks by mid-week.  “We will hopefully be able to form a government and then
this government will take up its work,” Merkel said in the
Bavarian capital. “It certainly won’t always be easy.”  Merkel’s CDU and the CSU had their best result in the Sept.
22 vote since reunification, placing the bloc five seats short
of an absolute majority in the lower house of parliament,
forcing Merkel to find a governing partner.  The SPD agreed to enter talks to forge a government only
after two delegation votes and a menu of 10 “essential”
demands, including a minimum wage of 8.50 euros ($11.50) an
hour. The party set up a further hurdle after it pledged to put
any draft accord to a vote of its 470,000 members, a process due
to take about two weeks.  Tensions arose last week after SPD leaders were buffeted by
internal opposition at a party conference in Leipzig, prompting
Chairman  Sigmar Gabriel  to demand that Merkel “deliver” on
policy. Officials in Merkel’s bloc, including Seehofer,
responded that they wouldn’t shy away from new elections of
negotiations failed.  “I say to the SPD: your election program of state spending
and tax increases was voted down,” Dobrindt told the crowd in
Munich.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Munich at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  