-- Merkel’s CDU, SPD Back Basel Debt Rule Opposed by German Lenders
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2013-11-22T11:43:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/merkel-s-cdu-spd-back-basel-debt-rule-opposed-by-german-lenders.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s bloc and
her prospective Social Democrat coalition ally back leverage
limits for banks advocated by the Basel Committee amid
opposition from German lenders including  Deutsche Bank AG. (DBK)   Merkel’s  Christian Democrats  and the SPD want Germany to
adopt a so-called “leverage ratio” proposed by the Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision, according to a draft coalition
paper obtained by Bloomberg News. Merkel and the SPD plan to
seal a coalition deal by Nov. 27.  Basel III capital adequacy rules should be applied “in a
consistent, timely manner,” according to the paper. “That
includes a binding upper limit on debt -- called leverage ratio
-- which takes appropriate account of the nature of risks in a
bank’s business model.”  Planned for operation in 2018, Basel III’s leverage ratio
rules sets an absolute limit on banks’ debt, reducing their
capacity to hide off-balance sheet risks. The Basel group is
seeking to put a ceiling on indebtedness that will prove robust
no matter how complicated a bank’s business model is,  Stefan Ingves , its chairman, said in a Sept. 30 interview.  The coalition paper didn’t specify how the leverage ratio
should take account of banks’ business models. Germany’s three-pillar banking system includes private banks, savings and
cooperative banks and state banks. Building societies’ business
model may assessed differently than other lenders, the
Handelsblatt newspaper reported today, citing no one.  Deutsche Bank Chief Financial Officer  Stefan Krause  said
the debt cap may defeat its aim by failing to differentiate the
risks in lenders’ investments, Boersen Zeitung reported Oct. 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  