-- Tethys to Export Kazakh Gas to China After Hanhong Tie-Up
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2013-11-22T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/tethys-to-export-kazakh-gas-to-china-after-hanhong-tie-up.html
Tethys Petroleum Ltd., an explorer
focused on Central Asia, plans to export Kazakh natural gas to
 China  and double output after securing a Beijing-based partner.  Tethys plans to increase gas production in  Kazakhstan  to
about 1 million cubic meters (6,100 barrels of oil equivalent) a
day from about 3,000 barrels now, said Executive Chairman David Robson. The Guernsey, U.K.-based company may export the fuel
east as soon as 2015 through the planned Kazakhstan-China
pipeline after agreeing to sell half of its fields to a unit of
 Hanhong  Private Management Co.  “We can do it fairly quick,” Robson said Nov. 20 in an
interview in  London .  Tethys pumps most of its oil and gas in Kazakhstan. It
teamed up with  Total SA (FP)  and China National Petroleum Corp. in
December to explore the Bokhtar area in  Tajikistan , adjacent to
South Yoloten, Turkmenistan’s largest gas field. If fuel is
discovered there, it may be also exported to China, Robson said
in February.  CNPC started building a pipe from Kazakhstan’s largest city
of Almaty to the border town of Khorgos earlier this year. In
September, KazTransGas and a partner started filling a section
between the towns of Bozoi and Shymkent in southern Kazakhstan.
Both links will be part of the  longer pipeline  from the  Caspian
Sea  to China.  Georgia, Myanmar  “We’ve just agreed effectively an initial three-year
budget” with Hanhong, Robson said. He expects the agreement
between the two companies will be approved by the Kazakh
authorities by the middle of next year. “We are working with
them today as if we’ve got the deal done.”  Hanhong will pay Tethys $75 million and possibly a further
$30 million depending on the exploration success, the chairman
said. The partners may invest more than $25 million in
Kazakhstan next year.  Tethys, which had $51.2 million at the end of September and
will get $55 million more in cash from the deal with Hanhong,
has been looking for new projects. It secured interests in
 Georgia  in July and decided not to bid for blocks in Myanmar,
Robson said.  “There are projects in Kazakhstan available, but the
pricing for me is too expensive,” he said. “Kazakhstan is no
longer a cheap place to work,” partly because of labor costs,
excessive regulation and changing taxation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  