-- Most European Stocks Rise Amid German Confidence Report
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-11-22T16:59:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/european-stock-index-futures-climb-before-german-data.html
Most  European stocks  advanced as
German business confidence rose to the highest level since April
2012 and investors weighed comments by European Central Bank
officials.  Daily Mail & General Trust Plc (DMGT)  gained 3.5 percent after
Barclays Plc upgraded its recommendation on the newspaper
publisher. Whitbread Plc climbed 3 percent after JPMorgan Chase
& Co. raised its rating of the company to overweight, similar to
buy. Rhoen-Klinikum AG fell 3.3 percent after saying its second-biggest shareholder sued to block the sale of 43 clinics to
Fresenius SE’s Helios unit.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index added 0.1 percent to 322.77 at
the close, as almost three shares in the gauge increased for
every two that fell. The benchmark lost less than 0.1 percent
this week as Federal Reserve minutes signaled policy makers may
reduce $85 billion of bond purchases sooner than investors
predicted. Future volatility in euro-area stocks, estimated by
options prices, fell to the lowest level since February 2007.  “The German business confidence data supports the view
that economic growth could increase going into the new year,”
Peter Garnry, an equity strategist at Saxo Bank A/S in
Copenhagen, said in a telephone interview. “Stocks are moving
up a lot which is being confirmed for the most part by positive
data which creates a momentum effect.”  The Ifo institute’s German  business climate index , based on
a survey of 7,000 executives, increased to 109.3 this month from
107.4 in October. That beat economists’ forecast for a gain to
107.7, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  Budget Oversight  Euro-area finance ministers are  meeting in Brussels  today.
The ministers will examine national budgets a week after the
European Commission raised doubts about the credibility of
 Italy ’s and  Spain ’s spending plans, warning they don’t go far
enough to narrow deficits or reduce debt. The meeting is part of
tougher budget-oversight rules introduced last year.  ECB governing council member Peter Praet said at a
conference in Paris that Europe has a debt overhang problem that
needs to be addressed “forcefully.” Policy makers have already
lost time in tackling it, he said. His colleague in the council
and Bank of Austria governor, Ewald Otto Nowotny, said the
regional economy has too little demand and fixing the banking
system alone isn’t enough to end the crisis.  National benchmarks rose in 13 of the 18 western European
markets. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 slid 0.1 percent.  Germany ’s DAX
gained 0.3 percent.  France ’s CAC 40 added 0.6 percent.  Rating Changes  Daily Mail  climbed 3.5 percent to 893 pence, its highest
price since January 2001. Barclays upgraded the stock to equal
weight from underweight. The brokerage said it sees no factors
that could drive down the stock price in the next 12 months.  Whitbread climbed 3 percent to 3,483 pence. JPMorgan Chase
raised its recommendation on the owner of Premier Inn budget
hotels to overweight from neutral. The brokerage cited the
economic rebound in the U.K.  “We expect Premier Inn to outperform on the back of its
dynamic pricing and benefit from its asset-heavy structure in an
upswing,” JPMorgan analyst Komal Dhillon wrote.  Bankia SA, the Spanish lender that posted a record 19
billion-euro ($25 billion) loss in 2012, jumped 5.8 percent to
95.6 euro cents after Chairman Jose Ignacio Goirigolzarri said
he doesn’t sense the government has “any rush at all” to sell
its stake in the nationalized lender.  Shareholder Resistance  Rhoen-Klinikum fell 3.3 percent to 20.45 euros. B. Braun
Melsungen AG, which holds a 10.98 percent stake in the company,
asked the court to void the sale of clinics or rule it needs 90
percent shareholder support, Rhoen-Klinikum said in a statement.
In September, Helios agreed to pay Rhoen-Klinikum 3.07 billion
euros ($4.1 billion) for the German clinics, a deal that would
create Europe’s largest chain of private hospitals.  TUI Travel Plc tumbled 7.8 percent to 359 pence as
Norwegian billionaire  John Fredriksen  sold his entire stake in
the company and bought more stock in parent company TUI AG.  Suedzucker AG, which makes sugar, starch and bakery
additives, retreated 7.9 percent to 19.15 euros after the shares
were downgraded to reduce from buy by Commerzbank AG.  Paddy Power Plc (PAP)  lost 4.1 percent to 55.01 euros after rival
William Hill Plc replaced it as one of Citigroup Inc’s most-preferred stocks.  The volume of shares changing hands in companies listed on
the Stoxx 600 was 22 percent lower than the average of the past
30 days, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cecile Vannucci at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net  