-- Europe Stocks Little Changed This Week; Petrofac Declines
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2013-11-23T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/europe-stocks-little-changed-this-week-petrofac-declines.html
European stocks  were little changed,
after six consecutive weeks of gains, as investors pondered
prospects for economic growth and monetary policy.  Petrofac (PFC)  Ltd. tumbled 17 percent after forecasting “flat
to modest” profit growth for 2014. Sugar producer  Suedzucker AG (SZU) 
fell 15 percent after saying earnings will not match
expectations.  Aberdeen Asset Management Plc (ADN)  jumped 11 percent
after Lloyds Banking Group Plc agreed to sell its Scottish
Widows Investment Partnership division to the  money manager .  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index lost less than 0.1 percent to
322.77 this week. The 600-share regional benchmark has surged 15
percent this year, reaching its highest level since May 2008, as
central banks around the world pledged to continue their support
for economic growth even as the  Federal Reserve  gets ready to
consider tapering its monetary stimulus. The  Euro Stoxx 50
Index (SX5E) , a measure for euro-area shares, gained less than 0.1
percent this week.  “Tapering is an inevitable development that could be taken
negatively in terms of  market sentiment , but, however, it is
fundamentally sound,” Ilario Di Bon, who helps oversee $7.6
billion as head of equities at Alliance Trust in  London , said by
phone. “It means that the recipe of the Fed starts to have an
effect on the real economy. We are mending the system, as
opposed to living in artificial support forever.”  Fed Minutes  Fed officials might reduce their $85 billion in monthly
bond purchases “in coming months” as the economy improves,
according to the record of the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s
Oct. 29-30 gathering, released Nov. 20. Economists in a
Bloomberg survey expect the central bank to begin reducing bond
purchases in March.  The  European Central Bank  is considering a smaller-than-normal cut in the deposit rate if officials decide to take it
negative for the first time, according to two people with
knowledge of the debate. The central bank this month refrained
from cutting the deposit rate, even as it reduced its key
refinancing rate to a record low 0.25 percent.  Euro-area manufacturing expanded for a fifth month in
November, London-based Markit Economics said Nov. 21, as Germany
continued to drive the 17-nation currency bloc’s gradual
recovery from a record-long recession. German business
confidence surged to the highest level in more than 1 1/2 years,
the Ifo institute’s business climate index showed yesterday.  Europe Role  “While the U.S. is having momentum, we believe Europe will
start to play a positive role for markets as well,” Di Bon at
Alliance Trust said. “I would expect 2014 to be favorable to
equities.”  U.S. retail  sales  climbed in October by the most in three
months, Commerce Department figures showed Nov. 20. The cost of
living for Americans decreased in October, a separate report
from the Labor Department showed. The consumer-price index
dropped 0.1 percent, the first decline in six months, as costs
fell for energy, apparel and new cars.  National benchmark indexes rose in nine of the 18 western
European markets this week. Germany’s  DAX (DAX)  gained 0.6 percent.
The U.K.’s  FTSE 100 (UKX)  and France’s CAC 40 both slipped 0.3
percent.  Petrofac, the oil and gas engineer that’s lost a quarter of
its value this year, on Nov. 18 dropped the most since it listed
in 2005 in London trading after predicting “flat to modest”
profit growth. The shares fell 17 percent in the week.  Suedzucker Tumbles  Suedzucker plunged 15 percent, including its biggest two-day loss since at least 1998. Europe’s biggest sugar supplier on
Nov. 21 cut its full-year sales and operating profit forecasts
as sugar production missed expectations and business development
declined.  Paddy Power Plc (PAP)  dropped 12 percent. Ireland’s biggest
bookmaker fell the most in more than five years on Nov. 19 after
saying that poor sports gambling  results  will reduce operating
profit more than expected.  The company’s takings from sports gambling since July
missed its expectations by about 10 million euros ($13.5
million), with “notably poor results” from Champions League
football and the Australian Spring Racing Carnival, Paddy Power
said.  TUI Travel Plc (TT/)  sank 7.6 percent, falling the most in two
years yesterday.  John Fredriksen ’s Monteray, which had been its
second-biggest  shareholder , sold its entire stake in the travel
company at 366 pence a share.  Aberdeen Jumps  Aberdeen climbed 11 percent. Lloyds is selling the Scottish
Widows Investment Partnership division for 560 million pounds
($908 million). The lender will receive a 9.9 percent stake in
Scotland’s largest money manager as part of the deal.  EasyJet Plc (EZJ)  jumped 11 percent. Europe’s second-biggest
discount airline boosted earnings by 51 percent. Pretax profit
for the 12 months to Sept. 30 rose to 478 million pounds from
317 million pounds a year earlier the Luton, England-based
carrier said Nov. 19, as it added corporate and leisure
customers on routes where network carriers are exiting.  Metro AG (MEO)  rallied 8.1 percent. Germany’s biggest retailer
may sell a stake in its Russian unit to raise money for
expansion, Metro said Nov. 19 in an e-mailed statement. No
formal decision has been made, it added.  Sonova Holding AG (SOON)  advanced 6.1 percent after predicting
that annual earnings before interest, taxes and amortization
would grow as much as 14 percent, compared with a previous
forecast of 9 percent to 13 percent. The company also reported
first-half revenue that beat analysts’ estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cecile Vannucci at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net  