-- Ex-Credit Suisse CDO Chief Sentenced to 2 1/2 Years
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-11-22T22:43:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/ex-credit-suisse-cdo-chief-sentenced-to-2-1-2-years.html
Kareem Serageldin, the ex-global
head of  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ’s structured credit trading
business, was sentenced to 2 1/2 years in prison for his part in
a scheme to falsify the value of mortgage-backed bonds in 2007.  U.S. District Judge Alvin Hellerstein, who presided over
the case, also ordered Serageldin to pay a $150,000 fine and
perform community service for two years after he’s released from
prison. The judge rejected a bid by Serageldin’s lawyers for a
term of no prison time, saying he had to impose a term that
would reflect the seriousness of the offense.  Serageldin pleaded guilty in April to a single count of
conspiracy to falsify Credit Suisse’s books and records, which
carried a maximum prison sentence of five years. Under federal
sentencing guidelines, which aren’t binding on the court,
Serageldin could have received a term of four years and nine
months to five years.  “I have to consider that you were in a position of trust
and responsibility,” Hellerstein said. “Inflation of books is
wrong, everyone in the financial area knows that.”  Before the sentence was imposed, Serageldin and his mother
asked the court for leniency.  “I am sorry for what I’ve done and my mistakes will be
with me for the rest of my life,” he said. “I failed miserably
in the decisions I made.”  Reputation Lost  Sean Casey and  Michael Kim , lawyers for Serageldin, today
asked Hellerstein to impose a non-custodial term, citing the
loss of their client’s reputation, finances and career. Casey
and Kim declined to comment on the sentence.  The U.S. said Serageldin and other traders he supervised
“cheated” by deliberately causing the trading book to be
marked in such a way as to hide the true extent of losses.  Serageldin said during his guilty plea in April that when
he discovered subordinates falsifying the value of mortgage-backed bonds in late 2007, he joined the scheme rather than stop
it. He said he sought to preserve his reputation in the bank at
a time when there was great financial turmoil in the
marketplace.  Prosecutors claimed Serageldin marked up the collateralized
debt obligations to meet targets and boost year-end bonuses for
his $5.35 billion trading book, which was known as “ABN1,” at
a time when the U.S. housing market was plummeting.  Internal Review  After the scheme was discovered, Credit Suisse, based in
Zurich, conducted an internal review and took a $2.65 billion
write-down, according to the government. About $540 million of
the write-down was due to the ABN1 securities, the U.S. said.  Hellerstein said today that prosecutors calculated that the
ABN1 book was overstated by more than $100 million.  “There was a terrible climate in the bank,” the judge
said. “Mr. Serageldin’s crime was one duplicated by many others
in many other departments. I have to put that in finding a fair
sentence. It doesn’t mitigate his crime but it does mitigate his
responsibility.”  Asked for comment about Hellerstein’s criticism of the
bank, Drew Benson, a spokesman for Credit Suisse, referred to a
statement made by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
when it announced its suit against Serageldin and his co-defendants. The SEC said the bank had cooperated with
authorities and terminated the employees who were involved in
the scheme.  ‘Isolated Nature’  “The SEC’s decision not to charge Credit Suisse was
influenced by several factors, including the isolated nature of
the wrongdoing and Credit Suisse’s immediate self-reporting to
the SEC and other law enforcement agencies as well as prompt
public disclosure of corrected financial results,” the SEC said
in early 2012.  As part of his plea agreement with the government,
Serageldin agreed to forfeit $1 million as proceeds of the
crime. He also agreed to surrender without litigation about
$25.6 million in compensation back to Credit Suisse, Casey and
Kim said today.  Two of Serageldin’s subordinates,  David Higgs  and Salmaan
Siddiqui, pleaded guilty to overstating the value of the
mortgage-backed assets in ABN1. Both await sentencing. Credit
Suisse fired all three employees in 2008.  The case is U.S. v. Serageldin, 12-00090, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in Federal Court in Manhattan at
   pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  