-- Fed Not in the ‘Danger Zone’ as Exit Approaches, Lockhart Says
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-11-22T14:21:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/fed-not-in-the-danger-zone-as-exit-approaches-lockhart-says.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
President  Dennis Lockhart  said he thinks the central bank can
handle its exit from quantitative easing when the time comes,
despite uncertainty caused by a balance sheet close to $4
trillion.  “At the moment, I don’t think we are in the danger zone,”
said Lockhart, who is not a voting member of the policy-making
Federal Open Market Committee this year. “The  exit  will be
manageable when the time comes.”  Lockhart, who was speaking in an interview on CNBC
television, said he’s not “overly worked up over this,” though
the Fed has never before been in a position where it had to
manage and  normalize  such a large balance sheet.  “There is a fair amount of uncertainty related to the
longer-term consequences of growing the balance sheet,”
according to Lockhart. “There could be some things that happen
that are unanticipated.”  He said the shrinking of the balance sheet is “in all
likelihood, years ahead of us” with “plenty of time to
prepare.” The balance sheet now stands at $3.91 trillion.  The FOMC will probably dial down its unprecedented $85
billion in monthly bond buying to $70 billion at a March 18-19
meeting, according to the median of 32 economist estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey Nov. 8.  Employment Progress  The Atlanta Fed chief, who has backed the record stimulus,
reiterated today that the benefits of easing have outweighed the
costs, and said he has seen progress in employment. He said he
expects the FOMC to discuss tapering at its meetings in
December, January and in March, and should begin the reduction
when markets and the economy are prepared to handle it.  “The bigger the  balance sheet  gets, the more we’re dealing
with an unknown factor in the economic future of the country,”
he said. “We’re going to remain very accommodative for quite
some time, in all likelihood a number of years, but the mix of
tools that we use can change, and that’s where the tapering
decision comes in.”  Lockhart, 66, has been president of the Atlanta Fed since
2007. Prior to that, he was a professor at  Georgetown
University .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  