-- Fed’s Tarullo Says Volcker Rule Will Prevent More London Whales
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-11-23T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/fed-s-tarullo-says-volcker-rule-will-prevent-more-london-whales.html
Federal Reserve Governor  Daniel Tarullo  said regulators are writing a final version of the
Volcker rule to block any repeats of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s $6.2
billion in losses last year from derivative bets by a trader
dubbed the London Whale.  “One of the key mandates to the staff from all the five
agencies working on the final rule has been to ensure that
London Whale, in substantive and procedural terms, couldn’t
happen again,” Tarullo said yesterday in response to audience
questions after a speech in Washington. He called the JPMorgan
losses “a real-world case” that allows them to backtest the
Volcker rule, which bans proprietary trading at banks.  Tarullo, 60, is the Fed governor in charge of bank
supervision and regulation and is overseeing the central bank’s
implementation of the Dodd-Frank financial regulation overhaul -
- including Volcker. He said the proposed version would’ve
prevented the losses by JPMorgan trader Bruno Iksil because it
requires banks to show how trades work as hedges instead of as
proprietary trades.  The Fed and four other U.S. financial regulatory agencies
are working to finish a final version of the rule before the end
of this year. Volcker is the last major rule of a series of
Dodd-Frank provisions meant to improve the strength of the U.S.
financial system after the 2008 credit crisis.  ‘Herculean Task’  In a separate speech, U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission member Kara Stein said the effort to complete the
Volcker rule is a “Herculean task” that regulators will
complete with imperfections.  The current version “is not the rule I would have
written,” Stein said in a speech yesterday at an American Bar
Association conference in  Washington , without saying she would
oppose the proposal as it stands.  “My hope is when it comes time to vote on it, that the
rule will be strong enough and faithful enough to Congress’
direction that I will be able to support it,” she said.  Stein has pushed for tightening an exemption that would let
banks classify some trading as permitted hedging activity,
according to three people familiar with the negotiations.  Tarullo also said in his speech to the Americans for
Financial Reform and Economic Policy Institute that large banks
should be subject to higher  capital requirements  if they rely
heavily on non-deposit funding.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  