-- George Says More Transparency Needed for Market Discipline
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2013-11-22T15:41:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/fed-s-george-says-transparency-needed-for-market-discipline.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City
President Esther George said supervision of individual banks
should be strengthened to increase transparency in financial
markets and safeguard the broader financial system.  Supervision can be made more systematic, predictable and
transparent by making reports from complex firms more easily
understood so that shareholders and creditors can “provide the
appropriate level of market discipline,” George said today in a
speech in Paris. Without transparency, investors must rely on
assurances from regulators that they are ensuring “sound
conditions” at the biggest banks, she said.  Since the 2007-2009 financial crisis, regulators around the
world have tightened banks’ capital standards, focusing
especially on the biggest institutions deemed essential to
stability. U.S. agencies including the Fed are still
implementing tougher regulatory standards under the Dodd-Frank
Act more than three years after it became law.  “Today’s global institutions, with their systemic
footprints, can easily turn the complexity of their operations
into opaqueness,” George said at a Bank of France  conference  on
financial regulation.  “The annual reports of major institutions do not include
simple disclosures, but contain a nearly unending stream of
footnotes that attempt to describe their operations because of
the legal liability of saying something that might prove to be
misleading,” she said.  George told reporters after the speech she expects the
 Federal Open Market Committee  to continue considering reducing
its $85 billion in monthly bond purchases. The FOMC is next
scheduled to meet Dec. 17-18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  