-- Fedex Overcharging Suit Accord Wins Final Court Approval
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-11-22T19:07:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/fedex-overcharging-suit-accord-wins-final-court-approval.html
FedEx Corp. (FDX)  and lawyers suing the
company over claims it billed for deliveries to government
offices and businesses at higher residential rates won final
approval of a $21.5 million settlement.  FedEx, the world’s largest cargo airline, was accused in
2011 by two law firms of overcharging as much as $3 each for
tens of thousands of packages. The company denied the
allegations and said customers could challenge the charges.  FedEx settled the class-action suit in July. U.S. District
Judge John T. Fowlkes Jr. in  Memphis , Tennessee, granted
preliminary approval to the accord Aug. 1 and final approval
today after a fairness hearing. It is for $16.5 million in cash
and billing-practice changes worth an estimated $5 million.  The company denied wrongdoing.  “We agreed to settle this matter to avoid the cost and
uncertainty of continued litigation,”  Ben Hunt , a FedEx
spokesman, said in an e-mail after the hearing.  “After several years of hard fought litigation, we are
pleased to have obtained a settlement that not only provides
monetary relief to the to the class, but also puts an end to the
practices we challenged,” a plaintiffs’ lawyer, Steven J.
Rosenwasser of the Atlanta law firm Bondurant Mixson & Elmore
LLP, said in an e-mail.  The plaintiffs claimed FedEx charged residential rates to
destinations including the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Office in  Chicago , a Bank of America Corp. facility in Tampa,
 Florida , and the Safariland Group body armor company in
Jacksonville, Florida.  Company Position  FedEx contended the plaintiffs would have been barred from
pursuing their claims in a class action by provisions in the
FedEx Service Guide.  They would also have been barred from pursuing settlements
beyond 60 days after an alleged overcharge, Memphis-based
FedEx’s lawyers said in court filings.  The settlement class includes FedEx customers who used its
services from Aug. 28, 2008, to July 13, 2011, and didn’t get a
full refund for claimed overcharges on residential deliveries.  The case is Manjunath A. Gokare PC v. Federal Express
Corp., 11-cv-02131, U.S. District Court, Western District of
 Tennessee  (Memphis).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in  Detroit 
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Harris in Chicago
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 