-- Finland Priming Junk-Bond Market to Sate Demand: Nordic Credit
-- B y   K a s p e r   V i i t a
-- 2013-11-22T12:36:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/finland-priming-junk-bond-market-to-sate-demand-nordic-credit.html
Investors seeking higher yields in
 Finland , the euro area’s best-rated nation, are lining up to
join a new market place that will offer  junk bonds  from smaller
companies for trading.  Nasdaq OMX Helsinki, which runs the country’s stock
exchange, will open a bond marketplace in Finland on the First
North platform next quarter, the first venue for trading debt of
small and medium-sized enterprises in the country. As a further
boon to the nascent market, the industry made a new proposal
this month on standardized terms for the credit instruments to
ease the entry of smaller companies to the fixed-income market.  “Investor demand for bond issues based on high-yield
documentation is growing,” Timo Pietilae, head of Helsinki-based Pohjola Bank Oyj’s debt capital markets unit, said by
phone. Pietilae said he expects small companies to grab the
opportunity when the market framework is operational.  “We’ve received strong signals that the market will
develop and different actors will enter the markets in coming
years,” he said. “Recent initiatives to increase activity are
very welcome.”  Finnish Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen  has proposed easing
financing to SMEs as an antidote to  Europe ’s sluggish growth.
His government, struggling with the impact of two recessions in
four years and gross domestic product below the 2008 level, is
now taking action remove funding bottlenecks that would allow
companies to invest and create jobs.  Low Returns  Investors chasing higher yields are eager to see bonds from
closely held companies as central bank rates are at record lows
and sovereign bonds returns below inflation rates. Euro-area
 government bonds  with maturities of more than 1 year returned
2.8 percent this year, while similar-maturity Finnish debt lost
its holders 0.9 percent, according to Bloomberg/EFFAS indexes.  “The demand is there,” Urpo Hautala, senior adviser at
the Helsinki-based  Finance Ministry , said in an interview,
citing a survey of institutional investors. “Now the supply
needs to be arranged and we’re the midwives in this.”  The lure of bond markets to companies include the
diversification of funding sources as banks curtail lending to
comply with tighter  capital requirements . The drawback: more
bureaucracy and higher costs.  High Threshold  “When looking at smaller companies, the threshold to issue
bonds is reasonably high,” said Tommi Toivola, a financing
adviser at the Confederation of Finnish Industries. “We seek to
ease the costs that have to do with crafting the documents.
Bonds as a funding source for SMEs become more important as
banking regulation tightens. The biggest issue is spreading
knowledge about this funding alternative.”  Funding conditions for SMEs worsened in Finland,  Italy  and
the Netherlands over the past six months and are now below the
long-term average, Commerzbank AG said in a note to clients
today, citing the  European Central Bank . A gloomier economic
outlook and existing credit risk are becoming obstacles to
raising loans and the situation in these countries is set to
worsen for SMEs, Commerzbank said.  A lighter regulatory burden is touted to attract small
companies to sell debt on the First North bond marketplace,
compared with listing on the main market. The exchange prepares
to start trading in smaller Finnish credits in the first
quarter, spokeswoman Maarit Bystedt said. Similar bond markets
were introduced in Stockholm and Copenhagen last year,
attracting bacon maker Danish Crown A/S as an initial issuer to
the venue.  More Transparency  The move will add transparency and expand the investor
group, according to Antti Kylmaenen, head of corporate finance
at Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Insurance Co, the nation’s second-biggest private-sector pension fund which manages 31.5 billion
euros ($42.6 billion) of investments.  Finnish telecommunications operator DNA Oy yesterday sold
its first bond, raising 100 million euros at a coupon of 2.625
percent. The security matures in 2018. DNA sought funding after
its owners in July halted a planned sale. The company had
explored options including a private-equity buyout and initial
public offering.  The Confederation of Finnish Industries published a draft
proposal on  standardized terms  for bond issuance this month
after working with law firms, banks, companies, investors and
the finance ministry.  ‘Good Template’  “The template is very good,” Pietilae at Pohjola Bank
said. “We’ve been tightly involved in the preparation process
since the start. The goal has been to seek best elements from
other Nordic countries and adapt them to the Finnish market.
Some minor tweaks remain.”  The government proposed in August that Finnvera Oyj, its
financing company, could invest in bonds issued by SMEs starting
next year to increase investor confidence and fill in market
gaps. Talks are also under way regarding a potential domestic
trustee model influenced by  Norway ’s Norsk Tillitsmann ASA,
which established a unit in Finland this year.  The intermediary monitors payments, covenants and
communications, acting as a centralized guardian for investors.
Norway has the Nordic region’s largest junk and non-rated bond
market, created by need to finance its extensive oil and gas
industry.  “Bonds are very adaptable and specific terms can be
tailored to suit different companies’ needs,” Pietilae said.
The bonds’ popularity with companies will be tested once the
market opens, he said. “Markets will shape the development in
the end, there are no surefire tricks to make it succeed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasper Viita in Helsinki at 
 kviita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  