-- Fisker to Sell Assets in Bankruptcy at $139 Million Loss
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2013-11-23T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/fisker-to-sell-assets-in-bankruptcy-at-139-million-loss.html
Fisker Automotive Inc., whose
$103,000 plug-in hybrid car was driven by celebrities including
Justin Bieber, filed for bankruptcy with plans to be acquired by
a group said to include  Richard Li , son of Hong Kong’s richest
man.  Hybrid Technology LLC, a newly formed group, paid $25
million to win a U.S. Energy Department auction to take over
Fisker’s defaulted taxpayer loan. The group includes Li,
according to two U.S. government officials who were briefed on
the deal and asked not to be named because the terms are
private.  U.S. taxpayers lost $139 million of the $192 million Fisker
received.  “After having evaluated and pursued all other
alternatives, we believe the sale to Hybrid and the related
Chapter 11 process is the best alternative for maximizing Fisker
Automotive’s value for the benefit of all stakeholders,” Marc Beilinson, Fisker chief restructuring officer, said yesterday in
a statement.  “The Fisker Automotive technology and product development
capability will remain a guiding force in the evolution of the
automotive industry under Hybrid’s leadership,” he said.  Shuttered Factory  The Anaheim, California-based company listed assets of as
much as $500 million and debt of as much as $1 billion in a
Chapter 11 petition filed yesterday in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Wilmington,  Delaware . Fisker’s assets include a shuttered
 General Motors Co. (GM)  factory in Wilmington that the company was
supposed to reopen.  Anita-Marie Laurie, a spokeswoman for Fisker who works for
Sitrick & Co. in  Los Angeles , said she “can’t tell you anything
beyond what the release says.”  Joseph Lo, who represents Richard Li at the Brunswick Group
public-relations company, declined to comment.  The Energy Department decided to auction its interest in
Fisker after the company defaulted on its loan without making a
payment and attempts to find a buyer failed. The Fisker loan
made President  Barack Obama  a target of Republican opponents,
who accused him of “crony capitalism.”  Hybrid Technology is being represented in  Washington  by the
Glover Park Group, a strategic communications firm, whose
leadership includes Joe Lockhart, a White House spokesman during
 Bill Clinton ’s presidency, and other top officials from that
administration in which  Al Gore  served as vice president.  Gore was an initial customer of Fisker’s car, the Karma,
and is a partner with Silicon Valley venture capital company
Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, which backed Fisker.  “We can’t comment beyond the press release at this time,”
Caroline Langdale, a spokeswoman for Hybrid who works for Glover
Park Group, said in a phone interview.  ‘Fisker Legacy’  “HT is committed to building upon the Fisker legacy and
presence in the  United States  as a foundation for the design and
manufacture of advanced hybrid electric vehicles,” Langdale
said in a statement distributed by the Energy Department. “We
will work to realize the full potential these fantastic cars
offer in helping to remake the  auto industry  for
the 21st Century.”  Republican Representatives  Fred Upton  of  Michigan  and  Tim Murphy  of Pennsylvania said they were disappointed that the
Energy Department sold the loan to a “foreign investor.”  “Fisker’s collapse closes yet another sad chapter in DOE’s
troubled portfolio,” they said in a statement. “The jobs that
were promised never materialized and, once again, taxpayers are
on the hook for the administration’s reckless gamble.”  Holding Company  Hybrid Tech Holdings was formed Oct. 29 in Delaware by an
incorporation agency in Wilmington, according to the state’s
Division of Corporations. No reports were on file for the
company, and there’s no information on its officers.  The company was incorporated after the Energy Department
announced the auction Sept. 17 in a blog post. It accepted
initial bids until Oct. 7 and held the auction Oct. 11,
according to a posting on a government sales website.  Fisker, based in Anaheim,  California , received $192 million
from an initial loan commitment of $529 million from a program
intended to spur production of alternative-energy vehicles. It
was cut off from the remaining money in 2011 after missing
production milestones for the Karma.  The Energy Department yesterday defended the loan, saying
taxpayers only lost about a quarter of the initial loan amount.  ‘Some Risk’  “Recognizing that these investments would include some
risk, Congress established a loan loss reserve for the program,
and the Energy Department built in strong safeguards to protect
the taxpayer if companies could not meet their obligations,”
Bill Gibbons, an agency spokesman, said in an e-mail.  “Because of these actions, along with the sale” to Hybrid
Tech, Gibbons said, “the Energy Department has protected nearly
three-quarters of our original commitment to Fisker
Automotive.”  The company was co-founded by and named after former Aston-Martin designer  Henrik Fisker , and backed by $1.2 billion in
venture-capital investments. It stopped making cars last year
after a Karma quit running during a Consumer Reports road test
and failures in batteries supplied by A123 Systems Inc. led to a
U.S. recall and A123’s bankruptcy.  Most of Fisker’s remaining vehicles were destroyed by
flooding during 2012’s  Hurricane Sandy  after the company ceased
production, and its insurance company refused to pay for the
damages. Henrik Fisker quit after about 75 percent of the
company’s employees were fired.  Design Commitment  When it resorted to auctioning off the loan balance, the
Energy Department said it would require bidders to commit to
doing design and engineering work in the U.S., building on the
program’s intention to create or retain jobs in the country.  The department recouped about $28 million from Fisker’s
accounts after the first payment was missed. Fisker faces
millions of dollars in court judgments over unpaid bills, and
would have had more restructuring options absent the
government’s financial interest.  The vehicle-lending program still has 60 percent of its $25
billion in available money and hasn’t awarded a loan since 2011.
The department recently said it would begin taking applications
again, though legislation has been introduced in the  U.S. Senate 
to stop that from happening.  Fisker, which produced the Karma in  Finland , planned to use
most of its $529 million loan commitment to develop a second
model at the former GM plant in Delaware. It was never produced.  Largest Loan  Fisker’s loan was the largest approved for three startup
automakers granted loans. The Energy Department earlier
auctioned the balance of Vehicle Production Group LLC’s $50
million loan after the closely held wheelchair-van maker failed
without making a payment.  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA)  repaid its $465 million loan in full in
May, nine years early. Ford Motor Co. and Nissan Motor Co. are
making regular payments on their loans.  BMW Group, with a claim of $74 million, is listed as the
largest creditor in Fisker’s bankruptcy filing without
collateral backing its claim.  The case is In re Fisker Automotive Inc., 13-13086,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  