-- Fisker Files for Bankruptcy With Plan to Sell Assets
-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y   a n d   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2013-11-23T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/fisker-files-for-bankruptcy-with-plan-to-sell-assets.html
Fisker Automotive Inc., whose
$103,000 luxury hybrid car was driven by celebrities including
Justin Bieber and Leonardo DiCaprio, filed for bankruptcy with
plans to sell itself to Hybrid Tech Holdings LLC.  The Anaheim, California-based company listed assets of as
much as $500 million and debt of as much as $1 billion in a
Chapter 11 petition filed yesterday in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Wilmington,  Delaware . Assets include a shuttered General Motors
Co. factory in Wilmington that Fisker had planned to reopen.  Safety recalls, a battery supplier that went bankrupt and
shipments lost to  Hurricane Sandy  all contributed to the
company’s financial woes, Henrik Fisker, the auto designer who
co-founded the company, told Congress in a hearing April 24.  A House Oversight and Government Reform subcommittee
scrutinized a $529 million federal loan granted to Fisker in
2009, questioning why the government had made it in the first
place and what the company would do to repay taxpayers.  Fisker missed its first payment on the low-interest U.S.
loan on April 22. It had drawn about $193 million of the loan
before being cut off by the U.S. Energy Department for missing
milestones.  Assembly Halted  Founded in 2007, the closely held company halted assembly
of its Karma sedans last year when the supplier of its lithium-ion batteries, A123 Systems Inc., filed for bankruptcy. Fisker
sought a claim of $140 million in A123’s bankruptcy, and has
said the company, since renamed B456 Systems Inc., supplied it
with a defective product.  In April, B456 got approval of a settlement with Fisker
reducing the claim to $15 million.  The Energy Department, which was criticized over loan
guarantees to failed solar-panel maker Solyndra LLC, gave Fisker
a loan primarily so it could acquire and restart production at
the closed GM plant in Delaware.  BMW Group, with a claim of $74 million, is listed as the
largest creditor without collateral backing its claim.  The case is In re Fisker Automotive Inc., 13-13086, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net ;
Tiffany Kary in  New York  at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Dunn at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  