-- For-Profit Colleges Face Consumer Bureau Probe on Lending Roles
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2013-11-23T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/for-profit-colleges-face-consumer-bureau-probe-on-lending-roles.html
The U.S. Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau is investigating at least two for-profit
colleges over potentially abusive practices in marketing and
originating student loans.  The CFPB, which is studying and preparing to directly
supervise the entire private student loan industry, is examining
potential illegal practices by  Corinthian Colleges Inc. (COCO)  and  ITT
Educational Services Inc. (ESI) , according a  document  posted on the
agency’s website and securities filings.  The CFPB is looking into whether for-profit educational
firms “have engaged or are engaging in unlawful acts or
practices relating to the advertising, marketing, or origination
of private student loans,” according to the document.  Richard Cordray, the CFPB’s director, has vowed to focus on
the private student loan industry as the total U.S. student debt
burden, which is overwhelmingly government credit, has surpassed
$1 trillion. One area of interest is student loan refinancing.  “Many consumers seek to negotiate for a more affordable
payment plan on their loan obligations, only to find themselves
stymied, even when a modification would make sense for all
concerned,” Cordray said on Feb. 20.  The CFPB has proposed a regulation to supervise major non-bank student lenders. It already supervises banks with assets
above $10 billion.  Corinthian Colleges, based in Santa Clara,  California ,
received a request for information, called a civil investigative
demand, from the bureau on Sept. 13, the company said in a Nov.
6 securities filing. Corinthian said in the filing that it
“believes that its acts and practices relating to student loans
are lawful and essential.”  Corinthian Objects  The document on the CFPB website is an objection from
Corinthian to the scope of the agency’s demand for information
from the company. Attorneys for Bloomberg News wrote a letter on
June 28 arguing that the CFPB was failing to abide by its own
disclosure rules by withholding such documents.  Carmel, Indiana-based ITT Educational said on Oct. 29 that
it had received a second demand for information from CFPB about
“private education loans made to our students and certain other
aspects of our business.” The demand replaced a similar one
from earlier this year, ITT said.  Kent Jenkins, a spokesman for Corinthian, declined to
comment. ITT didn’t immediately respond to requests for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  