-- Forest Protection Plan Settled at UN Climate Talks
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i
-- 2013-11-22T23:04:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/forest-protection-plan-settled-at-un-climate-talks.html
Climate envoys from about 190
nations agreed on a deal that will channel funds to  developing
countries  to cut greenhouse-gas emissions by preventing
deforestation.  A decision establishing rules for the mechanism, known as
Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation, or
REDD-plus, was approved at a plenary session at United Nations-organized climate talks in Warsaw last night. Nations have been
discussing a REDD-plus mechanism since 2005.  Countries have targeted deforestation as a major source of
carbon dioxide, the greenhouse gas blamed for causing global
warming. Clearing trees to make room for agricultural activity,
such as cattle ranching or palm-oil production, is a major
source of forest loss, which causes 15 percent of global
emissions, according to the WWF environmental group.  “The EU very much welcomes the agreement on REDD+ reached
in Warsaw,” Isaac Valero-Ladron, a spokesman for the European
Commission, said by e-mail. “The package of decisions, which
provides the necessary methodological framework for REDD-plus,
represents a major step forward in efforts to reduce emissions
from deforestation and forest degradation in developing
countries. The decisions largely complete the rulebook for
implementing REDD-plus.”  The decisions in Warsaw set out how to measure and verify
emissions reductions, requiring developing countries to set up
national coordinators to oversee their activities and recommend
improvements to the UN, and ensuring that REDD-plus activities
don’t harm indigenous populations or their livelihoods.  ‘Heartening’  “The decisions set out the pathway that countries need to
follow to access results-based finance, ensure that national
focal points administer REDD-plus actions in each country, and
establish the relationship between REDD-plus and the Green
Climate Fund,” Pipa Elias, a forest policy consultant at the
Union of Concerned Scientists, said in an interview. “It’s very
heartening to see this process can actually work.”  The talks had earlier stalled when the Coalition of
Rainforest Nations, whose 41 members include  Argentina ,  Kenya ,
 Indonesia  and  Ghana , tabled a proposal to set up an
international advisory body under the authority of the UN. Kevin Conrad,  Papua New Guinea ’s ambassador for climate and
environment, said the Coalition was happy with the decision.  “For us the challenge was to get a rulebook in place.
There are a lot of pledges for finance but not much of it gets
delivered,” he said in an interview at the talks on Nov. 22.
“We wanted a forum where we could present what we’re doing and
focus on how we’re going to finance those things.”  Representatives of the so-called national focal points will
meet for the first time in  Lima  in December and thereafter every
summer in Bonn,  Germany , Conrad said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandro Vitelli in Warsaw at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  