-- Chemicals Maker’s $2 Billion U.S. Bet Driven by Fracked Gas
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d   a n d   Y u - H u a y   S u n
-- 2013-11-22T08:51:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/formosa-2-billion-texas-expansion-driven-by-fracked-natural-gas.html
Formosa (6505)  Plastics Group, Asia’s
largest chemical producer, is seeking U.S. permits for a $2
billion expansion of its Texas operations as cheaper natural gas
prices make U.S. production more competitive.  The Taiwanese company asked federal and state environmental
regulators to approve plans for an ethane cracker unit and
downstream derivatives, Formosa Plastics Vice Chairman Susan Wang said in an interview in  Washington  yesterday. She is
visiting the U.S. as part of a business delegation led by former
Taiwan Vice President Vincent Siew.  “Because of shale gas, the cost of making petrochemical
and plastic-related products is becoming very competitive here
in the United States,” Wang said. “It’s probably as cost
effective as in the Middle East.”  Formosa Plastics’s proposed U.S. investment comes as  Taiwan 
seeks to diversify business and trade ties beyond  China , which
has become its largest  trade  partner while also disputing the
island’s sovereignty. Taiwan this year resumed trade talks with
the U.S. after a five-year halt and the U.S. House Committee on
Foreign Affairs this week agreed to introduce a bill to allow
the sale of four frigates to Taiwan’s navy.  Siew, Far Eastern Group Chairman Douglas Hsu and CX
Technology Co. Chairman Albert Ting, joined Wang for the
interview with Bloomberg News.  Formosa Plastics Corp. (1301) , which owns 23 percent of the
business that’s expanding in Texas, rose 1.3 percent to NT$75.10
in Taipei trading. That pared the stock’s loss this year to 0.6
percent.  Trans-Pacific Partnership  The investment is bigger than previously planned by Formosa
Plastics in February 2012, when  it said  it would spend $1.7
billion to build two factories and a polyethylene plastics plant
in  Texas .  One of the business delegation’s key aims is shoring up
U.S. support for Taiwan’s participation in the proposed Trans-Pacific Partnership, a regional trade deal that will cover the
U.S. and 11 other nations, an area with about $28 trillion in
combined annual economic output. Taiwan seeks to join the talks,
which don’t include China.  The island has been ruled separately from China since
Chiang Kai-shek’s Nationalists fled from the mainland in 1949
during a civil war with Mao Zedong’s Communist army. Chinese
President Xi Jinping last month called for a resolution to the
cross-strait political impasse.  “It’s critical for the global supply chain that Taiwan be
part of the regional economic integration,” CX’s Ting said.  Trade Talks  CX makes speaker parts for high-end automobiles including
those made by Ferrari SpA, and about 65 percent of its
manufacturing base is in  Vietnam , one of the parties to the
trade-pact talks. An accord will spark deregulation in Vietnam
and provide protections for Taiwanese investors there, he said.  Chief negotiators from the nations brokering the trade deal
are meeting this week in Salt Lake City,  Utah , with the goal of
reaching an agreement by year-end. China, the world’s second
largest economy, has said it will study joining the talks.  “Taiwan’s position is that we do not oppose China’s
participation,” Siew, the former vice president, said through
an interpreter. “It would be a good thing for both parties to
participate.” Mainland China and Taiwan both belong to the
World Trade Organization, the Geneva-based trade forum.  The Taiwanese delegation visiting the U.S. also includes
Terry Gou, the billionaire chairman of Foxconn Technology Group,
which plans to invest in  Pennsylvania .  Environmental Permits  Foxconn flagship company  Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. (2317) 
assembles some of the world’s most popular consumer electronics
devices, including  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and iPad.  Formosa Plastics’s Wang said the Taipei-based company
expects to receive the environmental permits for an expansion at
its Point Comfort facility, about 125 miles (200 kilometers)
southwest of Houston, sometime within the next year.
Construction can begin immediately thereafter, she said.  Environmental regulations in the U.S. are “quite
reasonable,” Wang said. The hurdles in Texas are a shortage of
skilled labor due to the number of competing facilities, and the
relatively high cost of shipping products by rail in the U.S.,
she said.  The diversified industrial company is one of the world’s
largest chemicals producers, behind  BASF SE (BAS)  and Saudi Basic
Industries Corp., with a combined NT$2.2 trillion ($74 billion)
market capitalization of its four listed companies: Formosa
Petrochemical Corp.,  Nan Ya Plastics Corp. (1303) ,  Formosa Chemicals &
Fibre Corp. (1326)  and Formosa Plastics Corp.  Right Move  Formosa Chemicals climbed 1.2 percent in Taipei trading
while Nan Ya Plastics advanced 1 percent and Formosa
Petrochemical rose 0.9 percent. Taiwan’s  benchmark Taiex  index
closed 0.2 percent higher.  Wang said Formosa Plastics is “at a crossroads” in
determining whether to build or invest in an ethylene plant in
China. Taiwan last month lifted the ban on investing in Chinese
ethylene plants, also known as “naphtha crackers” for the use
of the petroleum distillate naphtha. China has yet to ease its
rules on ethylene investments across the  Taiwan (TWGDCONY)  Strait.  U.S. shale gas and oil will replace naphtha in the
production of basic chemicals as their costs are lower, Simon
Liu, vice president at Yuanta Securities Investment Trust Co.,
which oversees NT$300 billion of assets and holds shares of
Formosa Plastic Group companies.  “Investing in U.S. petrochemical plants is the right
move,” Liu said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net ;
Yu-Huay Sun in Taipei at 
 ysun7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Debra Mao at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net  