-- Former Co-Op Bank Chairman Said to Be Arrested in Drug Probe
-- B y   S u z i   R i n g
-- 2013-11-22T09:46:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/former-co-op-bank-chairman-arrested-in-u-k-drug-probe-bbc-says.html
Paul Flowers, the former chairman of
Co-Operative Bank Plc, was arrested as part of a drug
investigation after he was filmed buying crack cocaine by a U.K.
newspaper, a person with knowledge of the matter said.  Flowers, 63, was arrested yesterday, said the person, who
asked not to be identified because the investigation was
confidential. West Yorkshire Police said in a statement that a
63-year-old man had been detained in a “drugs-supply
investigation.”  Criminal, regulatory and government probes are in the works
after the Mail on Sunday reported Nov. 17 that Flowers bought
crystal methamphetamine and crack cocaine in Leeds,  England .
Flowers, who is a Methodist Minister, was Co-Op Bank’s chairman
from March 2010 until June of this year.  Co-Operative Group Ltd., the bank’s parent, last month
ceded control of the lender to bondholders to help plug a 1.5
billion-pound ($2.4 billion) capital shortfall. The company’s
chairman, Len Wardle, resigned this week after leading the board
that appointed Flowers.  Patrick Tooher, a spokesman for Manchester, England-based
Co-Op Bank, declined to comment. Flowers, who couldn’t be
reached today for comment, has previously apologized for his
conduct.  Difficult Year  “This year has been incredibly difficult, with a death in
the family and the pressures of my role with the Co-Operative
Bank,” Flowers said in a Nov. 17 statement. “At the lowest
point in this terrible period, I did things that were stupid and
wrong. I am sorry for this, and I am seeking professional help,
and apologize to all I have hurt or failed by my actions.”  His home in Bradford, England, was searched on Nov. 19 as
part of the police investigation into the drug allegations.  U.K. bank regulators at a meeting today will discuss a
possible investigation into Co-Op and Flowers, according to a
another person familiar with the plans.  Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne will discuss
with regulators “what is the appropriate form of inquiry to get
to the bottom of what went on here,” Prime Minister David Cameron told lawmakers in Parliament on Nov. 20.  A government inquiry may follow investigations by the West
Yorkshire Police and the Financial Conduct Authority.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suzi Ring in London at 
 sring5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  