-- France’s Economy Most Serious Threat for EU, Bankers Say
-- B y   M a r k   B e n t l e y   a n d   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-11-22T12:02:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/france-s-economy-most-serious-threat-for-eu-bankers-say.html
France ’s economy poses the most
serious threat to Europe’s recovery from a debt crisis that has
crippled growth and driven unemployment to record highs,
according to a survey of bankers and their regulators in
 Frankfurt .  The outlook for France is more concerning than prospects
for Italy, Spain or  Germany , said 61 percent of respondents in
the electronic survey held at a conference in the euro-area’s
financial capital today.  France “desperately needs leadership,” Timothy Adams, the
Institute of International Finance Chief Executive Officer, said
in a panel discussion at the conference. “There’s a lack of
concern about competitiveness in France,” Andre Sapir, an
economist and senior fellow at Bruegel, a Brussels-based think
tank, said on the same panel.  The euro area’s recovery almost came to a halt in the third
quarter as the French economy unexpectedly shrank and German
growth slowed. President Francois Hollande is failing to revive
corporate investment in the face of one of the world’s heaviest
tax burdens.  “In France, I think the acceptance of the necessity to do
something is at least increasing,” Commerzbank AG Chief
Executive Officer  Martin Blessing  told the same panel.  Several hundred bankers, regulators, corporate executives
and politicians gathered in Frankfurt for the final day of Euro
Finance Week, the biggest financial conference in the German
banking capital.  The event, hosted by Deutsche Bank AG co-CEO Juergen Fitschen, was also attended by European Central Bank President
Mario Draghi, Herbert Stepic, the former CEO of Raiffeisen Bank
International AG, and Constantin von Oesterreich, CEO of HSH
Nordbank AG.  German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble is scheduled to
speak this afternoon.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Bentley in Frankfurt at 
 mbentley3@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  