-- Free Food Brings Avianca Brasil Fliers Back to Future
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2013-11-22T13:25:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/free-food-brings-avianca-brasil-fliers-back-to-future.html
Free airline food, a casualty of
years of cost cuts, is making a comeback at Avianca Brasil as
the closely held carrier woos fliers by not charging for meals,
entertainment and roomier seating.  Focusing on service in Avianca Brasil’s coach-only cabins
draws business travelers and helps the airline sell more seats
on each jet than its domestic rivals, Chief Executive Officer
Jose Efromovich said. Demand is so strong that this year’s  82
percent load level  can be sustained even as new, bigger planes
boost 2014 seating capacity by 30 percent, he said.  “The only way we could do it is offering something
different,” Efromovich, 58, said in a Nov. 20 interview at
Bloomberg’s Sao Paulo office. “We brought back food to the
airplanes in Brazil. Brazilian travelers were not used to that
anymore, so we are providing a different product.”  Complimentary food and other comforts buck the industry’s
practice of selling perks in coach cabins to generate revenue.
Avianca Brasil’s expansion also runs counter to the cutbacks at
 Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA (GOLL4)  and  Latam Airlines Group SA (LAN) ’s
Tam, the country’s largest airlines, after  travel demand  slumped
following an increase in fleets over the last decade.  Ebitda Outlook  Efromovich said 2013 earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization will be positive for the first
time since the turnaround begun in 2008 under the ownership of
Synergy Group Corp., the firm led by his brother, Brazilian
investor German Efromovich. He didn’t give details beyond saying
that margins on that basis would be less than 5 percent.  Avianca Brasil has grown to No. 4 in the domestic market by
traffic, with 7.1 percent this year through September, according
to Anac, Brazil’s aviation regulator. That trails Tam’s 40
percent, Gol’s 35 percent and the 17 percent for Azul Linhas
Aereas Brasileiras SA and its Trip unit.  Free meals for economy fliers began vanishing along with
other perks in the past two decades as carriers sought savings
and extra revenue.  Fees for checked bags, for example, generated  $3.49 billion 
for U.S. airlines last year, a sevenfold surge from 2007,
according to Transportation Department data. On Dublin-based
 Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) , passengers who fail to check in online and
don’t print a boarding pass are charged 70 euros ($94).  ‘Gaping Hole’  “As the largest and most prominent airlines take away more
and more passenger comforts, a gaping hole has been created that
smaller, more innovative carriers are stepping up to fill,”
Alan Bender, a professor of aeronautics at Embry-Riddle
Aeronautical University in  Daytona Beach ,  Florida , said by e-mail. “Some of the best airlines in the world are doing exactly
what Avianca Brasil is doing.”  Unlike its U.S. peers,  JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU)  still offers
free snacks. Canada’s  Porter Airlines  does, too, along with Wi-Fi at no extra cost.  The 12 Airbus SAS A320s being delivered to Avianca Brasil
next year will replace an equal number of Fokker 100 jets,
keeping the airline’s fleet at 34 planes, Efromovich said.
Capacity will rise because the A320s seat 162 passengers,
compared with 100 on the two-decades-old Fokkers.  Also on order for later this decade are 10 wide-body
A350-800s, opening up the possibility of flights to the U.S.,
 Europe  and  Africa , Efromovich said.  Embraer Discussions  The airline is negotiating with  Embraer SA (EMBR3) , the largest
regional-jet maker, to buy about 30 planes from its upgraded E-jet family for delivery as soon as 2018, Efromovich said.
Embraer, based in  Sao Jose dos Campos , Brazil, said by e-mail it
doesn’t discuss business prospects.  “It’s not reckless growth,” Avianca Brasil Chief
Financial Officer Frederico Pedreira said. The airline isn’t
flooding the market with planes “like some crazy newcomer.”  Yields, or the average fare per kilometer, are greater than
those of the carrier’s biggest competitors, said Pedreira, who
declined to provide details.  Gol and Tam are paring seating capacity amid a 0.1 percent
drop in  air travel  this year, Anac data show. They’re also being
squeezed by a drop in the real, because  jet fuel  is priced in
dollars. While jet fuel is down 3.7 percent this year, the real
has weakened by 11 percent against the U.S. currency.  Gol, Latam  “Our goal is to go back to profitability,” Gol Chief
Financial Officer Edmar Lopes Neto said yesterday in an
interview at Bloomberg’s  Sao Paulo  office. “We have lost market
share; we don’t care about it.”  Tam’s parent, Santiago-based Latam, has been pulling back
as well. By offering fewer seats, airlines can trim expenses and
gain pricing power. “Our strategy enabled Tam to improve load
factors and to increase revenue,” Latam CFO Andres Osorio
Hermansen told analysts on a conference call last week.  Avianca Brasil eventually will confront financial pressures
in trying to keep its no-charge offerings, said Robert W. Mann,
a former American Airlines executive who now runs aviation
consultant R.W. Mann & Co. in  Port Washington ,  New York .  “Ultimately, the economics of a situation dictate whether
or not that’s sustainable,” Mann said in a telephone interview.
“They have the same fuel costs as everyone, they have the same
aircraft costs as everyone, they have the same airport operating
costs as everyone.”  The airline also will have to add flights to provide the
frequency prized by business fliers, Mann said. CEO Efromovich
said winning those travelers is central to his strategy.  Seat Pitch  Seat pitch, the distance from a point on one row to the
same spot in front or behind, is 32 to 33 inches (81 to 84
centimeters) on all jets, Efromovich said. Gol’s comparable
seats are at 30 to 31 inches, and Tam’s are 31 to 33 inches,
according to travel website SeatGuru.com.  Theo Abreu, a partner at Rio de Janeiro law firm  Campos
Mello Advogados , said he tries to fly Avianca Brasil to Sao
Paulo for business for its fares and “super comfortable” jets.  “The only problem is on the way back,” Abreu said by e-mail. “Since I often have to change my flight because of
uncertain meeting times and Sao Paulo traffic, I tend to fly
other airlines, which have more options.”  With the fullest flights in  Brazil  for much of the past
three years, Avianca Brasil’s new capacity will be welcome, CFO
Pedreira said. Efromovich said the packed planes force some
travelers onto other carriers.  “We have more customers that would like to fly with us,”
Efromovich said. The flights “are always full.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in Sao Paulo at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  