-- Fumbled Obamacare Cools Cities’ Interest in Website
-- B y   A n n i e   L i n s k e y   a n d   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2013-11-22T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/fumbled-obamacare-cools-cities-interest-in-website.html
The crash-plagued debut of the
Obamacare website is leading cities and towns to pull back on
plans to curb billions of health-care costs by sending retired
workers to the federal insurance marketplace.  Detroit postponed the shift of 8,000 retirees under the age
of 65 in early November, a month after the  healthcare.gov 
website opened to outages. The site’s inability to cope with
visitors added to union hurdles in places including Providence,
 Rhode Island . Other Rhode island cities are balking as the state
studies the benefits of sending former workers to the exchange.  “I have no desire to entertain anything with Obamacare
because I’m seeing what is going on now,” said Joseph M. Polisena, the Democratic mayor of Johnston, the town with the
largest unfunded health-care liability in Rhode Island as a
percentage of operating revenue, according to Moody’s Investors
Service. “It has been a flop. I don’t think this is going to
get up and running.”  The negative reaction to the flawed website comes as the
country’s largest cities face a combined $126 billion of
unfunded health-care costs for retirees, according to a  study  by
the Philadelphia-based Pew Charitable Trusts. The pullback by
local officials also represents the latest realization that
details of President  Barack Obama ’s health overhaul don’t quite
square with early hopes or perceptions of it.  “There is a lot of complexity in all of this that got
simplified,” said Neil Bomberg, a program director at the
 National League of Cities  in  Washington . “Is there really a
cost saving if they move their retirees off of health care?
There might not be.”  Detroit Bankruptcy  Perhaps the city with the most to gain from the the health
overhaul is Detroit, which filed a record $18 billion bankruptcy
in July that includes $5.7 billion in unfunded retiree health-care liabilities.  The city’s proposal to shift about 8,000 former workers to
the exchange with a $125 monthly stipend and 12,000 to Medicare
is expected to reduce annual retiree health-care costs to about
$30 million from $180 million, according to Bill Nowling, a
spokesman for  Detroit ’s emergency manager Kevyn Orr.  Retired Detroit workers were to start using the exchange to
find insurance on Jan. 1. That was postponed until Feb. 28 due
to the exchange foul-ups and to enable more time for mediation
between the city and a committee representing the 20,000
retirees, Nowling said. He declined to elaborate on the delay.  “The websites weren’t ready,” said Donald Taylor,
president of the Retired Detroit Police and Fire Fighters
Association. He said he isn’t optimistic the insurance markets
will be ready soon.  Many Unknowns  “There are too many unknowns right now to make a
commitment,” Taylor said. “I don’t know anyone who knows how
Obamacare is going to work.”  City leaders question whether the plans offered on the
federal marketplace will provide adequate health care for former
municipal employees, who often live and vote in the cities and
towns where they once worked.  The website is intended to be the main portal for millions
of uninsured people in 36 states to buy coverage under the
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010. Since its
start on Oct. 1, people using the site have experienced slow
page-loading times, blank pages and hang-ups. The flaws have
exacerbated the concerns of city officials.  “Because of the problems they would be concerned that they
could not ensure their retirees would have access to the level
of health care they need,” Bomberg said. “It is unsettling
when a program of this magnitude rolls out in such an
unfortunately questionable way.”  Too Young  Retirees under the age 65 are too young to qualify for
Medicare and their health costs often fall to former employers.
Sending these ex-workers to the health exchanges -- perhaps with
a city stipend -- may remove a drag on municipal balance sheets.
Moody’s, looking at Rhode Island, listed moving retirees to the
exchanges first in a report on strategies to reduce municipal
health-care costs.  That cities haven’t embraced the health exchange is s
surprise that shows how deep the problems are, said Richard
Nathan, a senior fellow and former director of the New York-based Rockefeller Institute of Government, which is studying the
implementation of the Affordable Care Act.  “Budget directors and financial officers are very shrewd
and cagey people and are always looking for gimmicks and
opportunities,” Nathan said. “It is the dog that didn’t
bark.”  Missing Details  In Rhode Island, where a state pension commission is
studying whether municipalities may save money by using the
Obamacare exchange, one hurdle is collecting the needed data on
retirees’ household incomes, said Rosemary Booth Gallogly,
director of revenue and the chairman of the commission. That’s
necessary to determine whether a portion of the former workers
could qualify for federal subsidies, a key element in
determining how much the plans will cost.  “It is not going to be the same for every person,”
Gallogly said. “It is not easy, that is why we are not that far
along. It is like anything, it is worth doing it will probably
be a lot of work.”  Providence, the largest city in Rhode Island, has $1.1
billion in unfunded health liabilities, according to Moody’s.
The city examined moving retirees to the exchanges as a way to
reduce costs and abandoned the idea, at least for now.  “Moving eligible retirees under 65 onto Obamacare would
require amending the city’s existing labor contracts,”  David
Ortiz , a spokesman for Democratic Mayor Angel Taveras, said in a
statement.  One city that is moving ahead with its plan is  Chicago ,
which in May announced it would end municipal health care for
about 20,400 retirees, sending those under 65 to the exchanges.  There, however, retirees have some time. Their city plans
don’t expire until 2017.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Annie Linskey in Boston at 
 alinskey@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Christoff in Lansing at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  