-- German Business Confidence Increases as Recovery on Track
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-11-22T10:57:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/german-business-confidence-increases-as-recovery-on-track.html
German business confidence surged to
the highest level in more than 1 1/2 years, signaling that the
recovery in  Europe ’s largest economy remains on track even after
growth slowed in the third quarter.  The Ifo institute’s  business climate index , based on a
survey of 7,000 executives, increased to 109.3 in November from
107.4 in October. That’s the highest since April last year and
exceeds all 43 economist forecasts in a  Bloomberg News survey .
The median was for an increase to 107.7.  German companies are becoming more optimistic as they
invest to take advantage of domestic  unemployment  near a two-decade low and the end of the euro area’s longest-ever
recession. Investor confidence rose to the highest level in four
years in November and the Bundesbank said this week that the
nation’s economy remains on a “solid growth path.”  “Germany’s economic expansion is broad-based, with
expectations rising across all sectors of the economy,” said
 Christian Schulz , senior economist at Berenberg in London.
“Households generally should be in a fairly comfortable
financial situation. And with the euro crisis not making the
newspaper headlines much for the first time in at least two
years, uncertainty should be lower as well.”  A measure of  current conditions  rose to 112.2 in November
from 111.3, while a gauge of expectations jumped to 106.3 from
103.7, Ifo said.  The euro rose more than a quarter of a cent after the
report and traded at $1.3514 at 11:45 a.m.  Frankfurt  time. The
 DAX (DAX)  stock index was little changed at 9,192.51.  Domestic Demand  German gross domestic product grew 0.3 percent in the third
quarter after a 0.7 percent expansion in the three months
through June. Growth was driven exclusively by domestic demand,
the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today.  Capital
investment  rose 1.6 percent in the three months through
September from the prior quarter and construction increased 2.4
percent, it said.  Beiersdorf AG (BEI) , the Hamburg-based maker of Nivea hand cream,
raised its full-year sales forecast this month and said its Tesa
unit, which produces adhesive tapes for electronics and
automotive industries, will report stronger annual sales growth
than expected.  While the local economy contributed 0.7 percentage point to
GDP last quarter, net trade subtracted 0.4 percentage point,
signaling the fragility of the recovery in the 17-nation euro
area, Germany’s biggest export destination.  Euro-Area Slowdown  Euro-area GDP grew 0.1 percent in the third quarter, down
from 0.3 percent in the prior three months when the economy
emerged from six quarters of recession. Italy extended a record-long contraction and the French economy, Germany’s  biggest
trading partner , unexpectedly shrank.  Italy  and Spain will defend their 2014 spending plans at a
meeting of euro-area finance ministers today, risking a clash
over economic frailties that could undermine efforts to pull the
currency bloc out of a debt crisis now in its fifth year.  Fabrizio Saccomanni of Italy and Luis de Guindos of Spain
will be called upon to justify their draft budgets at the
gathering in Brussels, amid fears that complacency is setting in
following the easing of bond-market pressure over the past 18
months.  Coalition Talks  The  European Central Bank  this month reduced its benchmark
 interest rate  to a record low of 0.25 percent, citing downside
risks to the economy and the possibility of a prolonged period
of low inflation. ECB President  Mario Draghi  said in  Frankfurt 
today that while several countries are behind in implementing
reforms, the economic situation in the currency bloc has
improved.  Headwinds for Germany also include political uncertainty as
the biggest parties try to form a coalition government.
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s Christian Democratic bloc is still in
talks with the  Social Democrats  two months after she won a
general election. A group of economic advisers said last week
that possible compromises, including a minimum wage and higher
pensions, risk rolling back reforms that helped the economy.  Economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  predict quarterly
growth for Germany of 0.4 percent until the first three months
of 2015. The European Commission forecasts the economy will
expand 1.7 percent next year.  The Ifo index signals “a progressive improvement of the
economy,” said Annalisa Piazza, an economist at Newedge Group
in  London . “Prospects for the future remained bright in
November.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  