-- German Growth Led by Domestic Demand as Investment Climbs
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2013-11-22T09:08:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/german-growth-driven-by-investment-consumption-in-third-quarter.html
German  economic growth  was driven
exclusively by domestic demand in the third quarter as
investment and construction offset an export slowdown.  Capital investment  rose 1.6 percent in the three months
through September from the prior quarter and construction
increased 2.4 percent, the Federal Statistics Office in
Wiesbaden said today. The expansion in gross domestic product
slowed to 0.3 percent from 0.7 percent, it said, confirming a
Nov. 14 estimate.  Germany is relying more on its domestic economy as the euro
area, its biggest export destination, struggles to sustain a
nascent recovery. Growth in the 17-nation currency bloc almost
stalled in the third quarter, as the French economy unexpectedly
shrank and  Italy  extended a record-long recession.  “The investment surge was much stronger than we and
consensus had expected and bodes well for an investment-led
expansion next year as well,” said  Christian Schulz , senior
economist at Berenberg in  London . Domestic demand “highlights
Germany’s potential to continue to play a positive role in
supporting the euro-zone crisis countries’ export-led
recovery,” he said.  Net Trade  Gross domestic product grew 0.6 percent from a year earlier
when adjusted for working days, today’s report showed.
 Government spending  rose 0.5 percent from the prior quarter and
private consumption gained 0.1 percent. Total domestic demand
added 0.7 percentage point to GDP, while net trade subtracted
0.4 percentage point. Exports rose 0.1 percent while imports
climbed 0.8 percent.  Germany’s increased reliance on its home economy may
counter criticism from the  International Monetary Fund  and the
 U.S. Treasury , which have said the nation is hampering European
and global growth by focusing too heavily on exports. European
Union regulators said on Nov. 13 they started a probe of
Germany’s  trade surplus .  The German Economy Ministry rejected the criticism on Oct.
31 as “not justified” and  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said in
Berlin yesterday that it would be “absurd” to to try make
German companies reduce production or cut back on quality.  The Bundesbank said in its monthly report on Nov. 18 that
Europe’s largest economy is on a “solid” path that points to
it growing according to its potential.  Ifo Index  German business confidence rose more than expected in
November, with the Ifo institute’s business climate index, based
on a survey of 7,000 executives, increasing to 109.3 from 107.4
in October. Manufacturing activity surged to the highest in
almost 2 1/2 years this month, an index by London-based Markit
Economics showed yesterday.  Economists forecast an expansion of 0.4 percent in the
final three months of this year, while the European Commission
predicts growth of 0.5 percent this year. By contrast, the
commission forecasts the euro-area economy will shrink 0.4
percent in 2013.  The  European Central Bank , which cut its benchmark  interest
rate  to a record low of 0.25 percent this month, will publish
economic forecasts on Dec. 5. The ECB has said that support from
monetary policy will remain in place for as long as necessary to
counter slowing inflation, which was the weakest in four years
in October.  “The euro zone still faces a hard slog in developing the
recovery and remains vulnerable to setbacks,” said  Howard Archer , chief European economist at IHS Global Insight in
London. “The hope for the euro zone has to be that a
combination of recent steadily rising confidence, ultra
accommodative monetary policy, very low inflation and reduced
fiscal tightening will fuel a gradual recovery.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  