-- Ghana Seeks $2.5 Billion Investment to Double Capacity at Ports
-- B y   E k o w   D o n t o h
-- 2013-11-22T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/ghana-seeks-2-5-billion-investment-to-double-capacity-at-ports.html
Ghana Ports and Harbours Authority ,
the state company that runs the nation’s two ports, will award
contracts worth $2.5 billion through 2018 to double capacity,
handle larger ships and reduce waiting time for vessels.  West  Africa ’s second biggest economy has given 18 companies
from around the world a deadline of Jan. 27 to present technical
and financial bids for five stages of expansion at Tema and
Takoradi ports, Paul Asare Ansah, head of marketing and public
relations at the agency, said in an interview on Nov. 18. He
declined to name the bidders.  Capacity for twenty-foot equivalent containers at Tema,
which handles about 90 percent of the nation’s traffic, will
double to 2 million TEUs a year by 2018, he said. Tema is
located 30 kilometers (19 miles) east of Accra, the capital.  “It’s our dream to make  Ghana  the regional hub for
shipments and receive really big vessels,” Ansah said. “We
need to quickly expand capacity to handle the ever increasing
traffic.”  Ghana’s debut as an oil exporter in 2010 boosted demand for
imports of machinery, fuel and food. The economy of the world’s
second-biggest cocoa producer has grown at an average 7.3
percent, faster than the average in sub-Saharan Africa, in the
past decade, putting pressure on aging infrastructure. Ghana
wants to offer an alternative to Nigeria, Africa’s largest oil
producer and home to West Africa’s biggest port, as cases of
piracy increase in the Gulf of Guinea.  Pirate Attacks  There were 40 attacks of piracy in the first nine months of
the year in the Gulf of Guinea, which borders the nations of
Ghana, Gabon and  Nigeria , oil-producing nations that account for
about a third of crude output on the continent. The majority of
the attacks were east of Ghana.  “Ships are safe in our waters,” Ansah said. “We need to
take advantage of the peace and stability.”  Ghana has already awarded contracts valued at about $470
million for the first stage of expansion at Tema and Takoradi,
218 kilometers west of Accra. About 197 million euros ($265
million) in financing has come from KBC Groep NV and the agency
will seek about $200 million from the $3 billion China
Development Bank loan Ghana got in 2011, Ansah said.  The agency will determine how it will raise the rest of the
funding after it reviews proposals next year, he said. The extra
745 million cedis ($329 million) the government will raise from
increasing the value-added tax to 15 percent 12.5 percent will
be used for an infrastructure fund, Finance Minister Seth Terkper said on Nov. 19.  Boosting Trade  Traffic at  Tema  rose five-fold to 822,131 TEUs last year
from 2000, according to data on the agency’s website. Allowing
deeper vessels to enter the port will boost trade revenue by
$490 million, according to an African Center for Economic
Transformation  report .  Projects at Tema will reduce vessels waiting time to enter
to one day from three days and include building bulk terminals
and facilities to service oil rigs, Ansah said. Land-locked
neighbors  Burkina Faso , Niger and  Mali  use the port to export
cotton, cashews and other commodities.  Takoradi,  handles oil exports from the offshore Jubilee
field operated by London-based  Tullow Oil Plc. (TLW)  Output will more
than double to 250,000 barrels a day in 2021 from about 102,000
barrels this year, according to the Ghana National Petroleum
Corp.  Projects include dredging of channels to allow deeper ships
to enter, building a base for oil operations and for the bulk
handling of bauxite, manganese and clinker or Portland Cement.
Takoradi handled 60,746 TEUs last year, a 48 percent increase
from 2003, the earliest available data on the authority’s
website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ekow Dontoh in  Accra  at 
 edontoh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  