-- Gold Analysts Most Bearish Since June on Fed Taper: Commodities
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2013-11-22T06:43:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/gold-analysts-most-bearish-since-june-on-fed-taper-commodities.html
Gold analysts are the most bearish
since June as the Federal Reserve signaled it may ease stimulus
“in coming months” as the economy expands, cooling demand for
an investment haven.  Nineteen analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News expect prices
to drop next week, nine are bullish and three neutral, the
largest  proportion  of bears since June 21. Gold fell to a four-month low and the dollar strengthened after Fed minutes released
Nov. 20 showed U.S. policy makers expected enough improvement in
labor markets to warrant slower debt purchases.  The metal is heading for its first annual drop in 13 years
as some investors lost faith in gold as a store of value, fueled
by concern that reductions in $85 billion of monthly Fed bond
buying will ease the risk of accelerating inflation. U.S.
unemployment-benefit applications fell to the lowest in two
months and October retail sales jumped the most since July, the
government said this week. Standard Bank Group Ltd. advised
selling gold on rallies amid weaker physical demand in Asia.  “For safe-haven assets, there’s no point because the
economy is recovering,” said  Andrey Kryuchenkov , a commodity
strategist in  London  at VTB Capital, a unit of  Russia ’s second-largest lender. “The dollar should remain strong, and that’s
what should cap any upside in gold anyway. Consumer demand is
slowing down. It will recover, but not at the moment.”  Gold’s Decline  Bullion slumped 26 percent this year to $1,244.64 an ounce
in London, reaching $1,236.88 yesterday, the lowest since July
9. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 commodities dropped
3.8 percent since the end of December, while the MSCI All-Country World Index of equities gained 17 percent. The Bloomberg
U.S. Treasury Bond Index lost 2.6 percent.  Investors sold 768.9 metric  tons  from gold-backed exchange-traded products this year through Nov. 20, erasing $67.1 billion
from the value of the funds and pushing holdings to the lowest
since April 2010, data compiled by Bloomberg show. This year’s
sales almost match total purchases in the previous three years.  Billionaire hedge-fund manager John Paulson, the largest
holder in the SPDR Gold Trust, the world’s biggest ETP, told
clients Nov. 20 that he wouldn’t personally invest more money in
his gold fund because it isn’t clear when inflation will
accelerate, according to a person familiar with the matter.  Paulson has lost 63 percent this year in the PFR Gold Fund,
said the person, who was briefed on the returns and asked not to
be identified because the information is private. The fund,
which has shrunk to $370 million, with most of that John
Paulson’s own money, fell 1.2 percent in October, the person
said.  Dollar Rally  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index, a measure against 10 major
currencies, has rallied 2.3 percent since touching an eight-month low on Oct. 23. The gauge reached the highest since Nov.
12 yesterday, a day after minutes of the Fed’s Oct. 29-30
meeting showed policy makers “generally expected” improvement
in employment data that would “warrant trimming the pace of
purchases in coming months.”  Gold rose 70 percent from December 2008 to June 2011 as the
Fed pumped more than $2 trillion into the financial system. As
of Nov. 19, four of five investors, traders and analysts who are
Bloomberg subscribers expected the Fed to start reducing its
monthly bond buying in March or later, with 5 percent looking
for a move next month, the Bloomberg Global Poll found.  Fed Outlook  Economists’ expectations for less stimulus have already
been pushed back after the central bank unexpectedly maintained
its program at its Sept. 17-18 meeting. Gold climbed as much as
2.6 percent last week after Fed Vice Chairman Janet Yellen,
nominated by President  Barack Obama  to succeed Chairman Ben S.
Bernanke, whose term expires Jan. 31, said the economy and labor
market must improve before bond buying is reduced.  Bullion, which slid 35 percent from its record set in
September 2011, is trading about 5.4 percent above a 34-month
low of $1,180.50 set on June 28. The metal rallied as much as 21
percent in the following two months as lower prices boosted
purchases of jewelry, coins and bars, particularly in Asia.
China and India are the biggest consumers of the metal.  Global demand for jewelry, bars and coins increased 20
percent to 3,757.1 tons in the 12 months through September, the
London-based World Gold Council said in a report last week.
Usage in China jumped 30 percent in the period and puts it on
pace to overtake  India  as the biggest consumer. Indian buying
rose at a slower rate of 24 percent as the government imposes
import restrictions on gold to curb its current-account deficit.  Prices that are heading for the third weekly decline in
four pushed gold’s relative-strength index to 29.97 yesterday,
below the level of 30 that suggests to some analysts using
technical charts that the price may be set to rebound.  Forecasts  The metal will fall to $1,200 at the end of this year, ABN
Amro Group NV forecasts, and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. sees
prices at $1,110 in 12 months. Credit Suisse Group AG projects
an average of $1,180 next year.  Six of 12 people surveyed expect raw sugar to drop next
week, five were bullish, and one was neutral. The commodity lost
10 percent this year to 17.51 cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S.
in New York.  Grain Surveys  Seventeen of 27 people surveyed anticipate lower corn
prices, with seven saying the grain will rise and three neutral.
Those surveyed had the same outlook for soybeans. Thirteen of 25
predicted losses in wheat, with seven bullish and five neutral.
Corn fell 38 percent in  Chicago  this year to $4.3025 a bushel.
Soybeans slid 8 percent to $12.9675 a bushel, as wheat dropped
16 percent to $6.5575 a bushel.  Ten traders and analysts surveyed expect copper to climb
next week, nine were bearish and seven neutral. Copper for
delivery in three months, the London Metal Exchange’s benchmark
contract, fell 11 percent this year to $7,040.25 a ton.  While money printing by central banks helped global
equities reach the highest since January 2008 this week, the S&P
gauge of raw materials slipped about 8 percent since mid-February. World economic expansion will accelerate to 2.8
percent next year and 3.1 percent in 2015, from 2 percent this
year, according to economist estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “Global growth will pick up, and this should be reflected
in rising demand, at least for base metals and to some extent
for industrial precious metals,” said  Daniel Briesemann , an
analyst at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  