-- Goldman Would Refuse Another Greece Swap, Sherwood Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-11-22T00:38:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/goldman-would-refuse-another-greece-swap-sherwood-says.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  Vice
Chairman Michael S. Sherwood said his firm would refuse another
deal like the derivative it sold  Greece  that masked the nation’s
growing debt to help it meet European Union standards.  “We absolutely wouldn’t do a transaction like that
today,” Sherwood, 48, said in an  interview  posted on Channel
4’s website yesterday in  London . “There have been transactions
of that ilk that have been presented to us by other European
sovereigns that we’ve turned down because we felt there wasn’t
the appropriate transparency surrounding them.”  Goldman Sachs sold Greece a derivative in 2001 that
disguised a loan, helping the nation meet EU targets. The deal
later cost Greece billions of euros and the nation’s
deteriorating finances prompted multiple bailouts from the EU in
the wake of the financial crisis.  The Greek government owed about 600 million euros ($808
million) more than the 2.8 billion euros it borrowed on the day
the deal was struck, and Goldman Sachs persuaded Greece not to
test the deal with competitors, Spyros Papanicolaou, who took
over the country’s debt-management agency in 2005, said last
year. Goldman Sachs wasn’t accused of wrongdoing related to the
transaction.  Goldman Sachs has sought to burnish its reputation after
being sued by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for
misleading investors on a 2007 sale of a mortgage-linked
investment called Abacus 2007-AC1. J.  Michael Evans  and E. Gerald Corrigan, 72, led a business-standards committee that was
set up in 2010 to review the firm’s policies and practices.  New Risks  Evans, 56, said in May that the firm has set up a “new-activity committee” to evaluate and approve suitability when
clients undertake transactions that carry new risks. He said
Abacus “would look a lot different” if structured today.  Sherwood is one of four vice chairmen at New York-based
Goldman Sachs and co-heads the firm’s European business out of
London. This month, he took over the bank’s emerging-market
operations from Evans, a vice chairman who’s retiring.  “We’re turning down things we would have done 10 years
ago, whether it’s due to the sophistication of the client,
whether it’s due to reputational issues, whether it’s due to,
‘Do we think that’s an appropriate transaction for the client to
take on,’” Sherwood said in the Channel 4 interview. “I’m not
talking about legality here. Everything we did we felt was
legal, but here we’re talking about what’s appropriate and
what’s reputationally sensitive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Eichenbaum at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net  