-- Goldman Sachs Boosts Japan Stock Outlook 6th Time in 2013
-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 2013-11-22T03:48:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/goldman-sachs-boosts-japan-stock-outlook-6th-time-in-2013.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. raised its
price target for Japanese shares for the sixth time this year on
expectations the government will make progress on measures such
as cutting corporate taxes and restarting nuclear reactors.  The brokerage boosted its 12-month outlook for the  Topix
index (TPX)  to 1,450, 16 percent higher than yesterday’s close. Its
previous forecast, set on May 17, was 1,400. Goldman Sachs now
expects earnings per share to double in fiscal year 2014
compared with fiscal year 2012, strategists led by Kathy Matsui
wrote in a report dated yesterday.  “Amid growing skepticism about Abenomics, we expect the
government to make steady progress in critical areas during
2014,” the report said. “We expect corporate Japan’s
confidence to improve in 2014, triggering both increased capex
and higher wages, which should help offset the impact of the
value-added-tax hike next April.”  Other areas where progress is expected include forging a
deal on the Trans-Pacific Partnership free-trade agreement,
reforming the  agriculture sector , preparing for a new taxpayer
identification system, and improving corporate governance, the
report said.  The Topix plunged as much as 18 percent from this year’s
high on May 22 through June 13 on bets the U.S. would taper
stimulus and growing skepticism Prime Minister Shinzo Abe will
be able to enact the necessary reforms to boost economic growth.
The Topix has since recovered and was about 2.3 percent away
from its May high as of yesterday’s close.  Abe last month said the government will raise the  sales tax 
to 8 percent in April from the current 5 percent rate in a bid
to rein in the world’s heaviest debt burden. He announced a 5
trillion yen ($49 billion) stimulus package on Oct. 1 to cushion
the blow, which a Cabinet Office statement showed includes tax
breaks for companies.  The prime minister wants to restart some nuclear reactors
to drive economic growth.  Japan ’s regulator for the industry has
no fixed schedule to complete safety checks at the country’s
idled atomic plants, it said by e-mail on Nov. 14.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  