-- TIAA-CREF Says CNP Assurances Agrees to Invest in German Malls
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2013-11-22T09:04:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/tiaa-cref-says-cnp-assurances-agrees-to-invest-in-german-malls.html
TIAA-CREF, the pension-fund manager
for employees of non profit institutions, said French insurer
 CNP Assurances (CNP)  will invest in three of its German shopping
centers that are valued at $1.2 billion.  The companies will set up a joint venture to own the
properties, TIAA-CREF said in a statement yesterday without
providing financial details. The New York-based company acquired
Berlin’s Gropius Passagen in 2012 and Munich’s Perlach Einkaufs
Passage in  2011  and developed the Erlangen Arcaden in 2007.  “Germany’s improving economy and limited supply of retail
space continue to make these properties attractive assets,” Tom Garbutt, TIAA-CREF’s head of global real estate, said in the
statement. The joint venture will allow the company “to further
diversify our portfolio and take advantage of investment
opportunities.”  Pension funds and insurance companies are investing in
German commercial properties to boost returns as low  interest
rates  make  government bonds  less attractive. Investors bought 19
billion euros ($26 billion) of offices, shops and warehouses in
the first nine months of this year, 28 percent more than a year
ago, according to data compiled by broker  Jones Lang LaSalle
Inc. (JLL)   In June, TIAA-CREF and  Henderson Group Plc (HGG)  agreed to
combine their European and Asian real estate businesses to form
a venture with 13 billion pounds ($21 billion) of assets under
management.  TIAA-CREF will manage the German shopping centers for the
joint venture. The company already operates assets in the U.S.
for sovereign-wealth funds and institutional investors,
according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  