-- Ibovespa Declines on Concern Brazil’s Economy Remains Stalled
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-11-22T12:53:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/ibovespa-declines-on-concern-brazil-s-economy-remains-stalled.html
The Ibovespa fell for a third
straight day, with Banco do Brasil SA leading banks lower, on
concern Brazil’s economy remains stalled and amid speculation
government deficits will lead to a reduced  credit rating .  The MSCI Brazil/Financials Index declined the most among 10
 industry groups  while retailer Cia. Hering was the biggest loser
among consumer stocks. OSX Brasil SA, the shipbuilder of former
billionaire  Eike Batista , rose after it notified its bond
trustee that it will miss next month’s interest payment on $500
million of vessel-backed bonds.  The Ibovespa slipped 0.6 percent to 52,347.62 at 10:26 a.m.
in  Sao Paulo , extending its weekly drop to 2.1 percent. Fifty-four of its 72 member stocks retreated today as the median
forecast of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg called for gross
domestic product to expand 2.5 percent this year and next. The
economy increased 0.9 percent last year, the worst performance
since the 2009 financial crisis.  “The problem is what is still to come,” Fernando Goes, an
analyst at Clear Corretora, said in a telephone interview from
Sao Paulo. “The market has started looking at the political
issues again, which are now reflected in the threat of a
downgrade to Brazil’s rating.”  Standard & Poor’s  put Brazil’s rating, the second-lowest
investment grade, on negative outlook in June, citing slow
economic growth and expansive fiscal policy.  Banco do Brasil dropped 3 percent to 24.74 reais. Hering
fell 1 percent to 30.78 reais.  OSX gained 9.6 percent to 57 centavos.  Investor Pessimism  Investors have never been more pessimistic about Brazil
President  Dilma Rousseff ’s policies, with only 10 percent saying
the nation can avoid a credit-rating downgrade in the next year,
a Bloomberg Global Poll shows. Fifty-one percent said they are
pessimistic about her policies, compared with 22 percent when
she took office in January 2011, according to the poll of 750
analysts, investors and traders who are Bloomberg subscribers.  Brazil’s main equity index entered a  bull market  Sept. 9
after rising 20 percent from this year’s low on July 3 through
that day. The gauge is still down 23 percent in dollar terms
this year, compared with a decline of 4.6 percent for the MSCI
 Emerging Markets  Index of 21 developing nations’ equities.  Trading volume of stocks in Sao Paulo was 6.57 billion
reais yesterday, which compares with a daily average of 7.56
billion reais this year through Nov. 19, according to data from
the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  