-- Michael Weiner, Baseball Players Union Executive, Dies at 51
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-11-22T05:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/michael-weiner-baseball-players-union-executive-dies-at-51.html
Michael Weiner , who guided Major
League Baseball players through three collective bargaining
agreements and in 2009 became executive director of the  MLB
Players Association , died after a 15-month battle with  brain
cancer . He was 51.  Weiner died yesterday with his wife and three daughters by
his side at their  New Jersey  home, the union said in an e-mailed
statement. He was diagnosed with an inoperable brain tumor in
August 2012 and continued to work while receiving radiation and
chemotherapy.  “Michael was a courageous human being and the final year
of his remarkable life inspired so many people in our
profession,” MLB Commissioner  Bud Selig  said in a statement.
“Our strong professional relationship was built on a foundation
of respect and a shared commitment to finding fair solutions for
our industry. I appreciated Michael’s tireless, thoughtful
leadership of the players and his pivotal role in the prosperous
state of baseball today.”  Known for his patience and inclusive approach to collective
bargaining, Weiner helped baseball continue a labor peace that
has stretched nearly two decades. He served as the union’s chief
negotiator with MLB in 2002 and 2006, and was executive director
when the two sides signed their most recent  agreement  in 2011, a
year in which labor conflicts led to lockouts in the  National
Football League  and  National Basketball Association .  “The most brilliant, caring, dedicated and selfless person
I’ve ever known,” New York Mets pitcher Dillon Gee wrote about
Weiner on his Twitter account.  HGH Test  The contract between team owners and the union, announced
in November 2011, led to the first blood tests for human growth
hormone for a major U.S. sports league and raised players’
minimum salary every season through 2014. It also produced an
unprecedented level of members’ involvement, with more than 230
ballplayers attending at least one bargaining session, according
to the association’s website.  An avid reader and Bruce Springsteen fan, Weiner favored
jeans and sneakers over suits and wingtips whether at his  New
York  City office or teaching Sunday school to fourth and fifth
graders at the Jewish Center of Northwest Jersey, according to a
2009 New York Times article.  Michael Steven Weiner was born Dec. 21, 1961, in Paterson,
New Jersey. He received a bachelor’s degree in political economy
from  Williams College  in Williamstown,  Massachusetts , in 1983
and a law degree from  Harvard Law School  three years later. He
served three years as clerk to then-U.S. District Court Judge H. Lee Sarokin in  Newark , New Jersey, before joining the union as a
staff lawyer in 1988.  General Counsel  Weiner served as the union’s general counsel from 2004 to
2009, when he succeeded Donald Fehr, who moved to the same
position with the National Hockey League players’ union.  “Mike was an extraordinary individual in so many ways: as
a loving husband and father, as an exceptional union leader and
lawyer, and as a great friend to so many,” Fehr said in an e-mailed statement. “He was an indispensable part of the MLBPA
staff for more than two decades, and was the right man to lead
the union.”  Baseball has successfully negotiated three new labor
accords without a work stoppage since a strike led to
cancellation of the second half of the 1994 season. In the past
three years alone, the NFL, NBA and NHL each went through a
lockout, the latter two resulting in the cancellation of
regular-season games.  Wheelchair Speech  Weiner received the Milton and Arthur Richman “You Gotta
Have Heart” Award at a New York Baseball Writers Association of
America dinner in January and in July addressed reporters from a
wheelchair at baseball’s All-Star Game.  He said at the time that the tumor had rendered most of his
right side immobile and received a standing ovation when he was
finished.  “I wake up every morning looking for beauty, meaning and
joy and, if I find that, I know that that’s a good day,” he
said.  He will be succeeded as leader of the union by Tony Clark,
41, his deputy since July.  “Words cannot describe the love and affection that the
players have for Michael, nor can they describe the level of
sadness we feel today,” Clark said in the union’s statement.
“Not only has the game lost one of its most important and
influential leaders in this generation, all involved in the game
have lost a true friend.”  Survivors include his wife, the former Diane Margolin, and
daughters Margie, Grace and Sally.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net ;
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  