-- Sleet Coating Texas Through Weekend May Move to East Coast
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-11-22T18:34:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/icy-rain-coating-texas-through-weekend-may-move-to-east-coast.html
Ice and sleet are expected to coat
 Dallas  and Fort Worth, making travel difficult and knocking out
power, as temperatures plummet across much of the southern
Plains this weekend.  Freezing rain may leave a light coating of ice in the
region today, followed by heavier precipitation starting the day
after tomorrow, the  National Weather Service  said.  “I think for Dallas it’s a damp, cold day today,” said
 Tom Kines , a meteorologist with AccuWeather Inc. in State
College,  Pennsylvania . “We’re going to have to wait for this
system in the southern Rockies to move eastward. That’s going to
be what brings problems to the southern Plains and North Texas
in the form of ice or snow.”  He said the system may move up the East Coast next week.  As of 1 p.m. New York time, 71 flights had been canceled at
 Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport  and 24 were scrubbed at
Houston’s George Bush Intercontinental as storms moved in,
according to FlightAware, a Houston-based tracking service.
Delays of 30 to 45 minutes were also reported in Houston, the
Federal Aviation Administration’s website showed.  “All it takes is a little bit and everything comes to a
standstill down there,” Kines said. “They’re not used to ice
and they are certainly not used to ice this early in the season.
It could be big problems down there.”  The ice may cause problems for wind-produced electricity as
well, said Matt Rogers, president of Commodity Weather Group LLC
in Bethesda, Maryland.  Wind Farms  At least 35 wind farms across northern  Texas  are
susceptible to ice forming on the blades, according to a report
prepared by Commodity Weather meteorologists Josh Boden and
Brian Bardone.  “This event should at least slow generation due to this
extra weight and could shut down individual mills or farms right
when high winds and electric demand spikes,” Bardone and Boden
wrote.  A winter storm watch including Dallas and Fort Worth goes
into effect Nov. 24 to 25, the weather service said. A winter
weather advisory was also issued from Colorado and  Kansas 
southward.  Northern Texas and most of  Oklahoma  face the risk of heavy
ice those days, according to the U.S.  Climate Prediction Center 
in College Park, Maryland.  “Wherever sleet or icy conditions occur, significant
impacts to travel are expected Sunday morning though Monday mid-day,” the agency said in a hazardous weather outlook.  Texas Cold  Temperatures across Texas are expected fall 8 to 15 degrees
Fahrenheit (4.4 to 8.3 Celsius) below normal for the next five
days, according to  MDA Weather Services  in Gaithersburg,
 Maryland . The average temperature in Dallas today is forecast to
be 38.5 degrees, or 15.5 below normal, according to the
commercial forecaster.  The storm is expected to drift across the South and may
move up the East Coast by the middle of next week, Kines said.
Even if it doesn’t develop as a threat to eastern cities from
Philadelphia to Boston, temperatures in the region will probably
plummet.  “It’s a very cold air mass,” Kines said. “It’s pretty
impressive.”  The high temperature in New York is expected to be 35 on
Nov. 24 and fall to 23 later in the day with a small chance of
snow showers, according to the weather service.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net  