-- LightSquared Plans May Not Work, U.S. Trustee Says
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2013-11-22T21:42:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/lightsquared-plans-may-not-work-u-s-trustee-says.html
LightSquared Inc.,  Philip Falcone ’s
bankrupt wireless spectrum company, may not have a feasible plan
to reorganize, the U.S. Trustee said in an objection to all four
competing proposals.  Three plans include a sale of some company assets, while a
fourth proposes a reorganization. None of them may work given
regulatory hurdles in the U.S. and Canada, as well as the plans’
failure to comply with the Bankruptcy Code, Tracy Hope Davis,
the acting U.S. Trustee, said in a court filing today. The U.S.
Trustee is the arm of the  Justice Department  that oversees
bankruptcies.  LightSquared, based in Reston, Virginia, filed for
bankruptcy in May 2012, listing assets of $4.48 billion and debt
of $2.29 billion. Regulators including the Federal
Communications Commission blocked the service after makers and
users of global positioning system devices said its signals
would confound navigation gear.  “None of the plans may be feasible given the uncertainty
of FCC and/or Industry  Canada  approval of the assignment or
transfer of control of any rights and interests in any of the
debtors’ spectrum assets and the length of time the approval
process may take,” Davis said.  The proposals include a plan to sell most of the company’s
spectrum assets at an auction led by a $2.22 billion bid from a
unit of Charlie Ergen’s  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  LightSquared is suing
Ergen over how he accumulated a stake in the company’s debt.  The plans were put forward by an ad hoc group of secured
lenders, LightSquared itself, Mast Capital Management LLC and
 U.S. Bank National Association , and Harbinger, Falcone’s
investment company.  The bankruptcy case is In re LightSquared Inc., 12-bk-12080,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Dunn at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  