-- Military Role in Drug War at Stake in Honduras Presidential Vote
-- B y   I s a b e l l a   C o t a   a n d   E r i c   S a b o
-- 2013-11-22T06:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/military-role-in-drug-war-at-stake-in-honduras-presidential-vote.html
Hondurans will choose between
competing strategies for lowering the world’s highest murder
rate this weekend in presidential elections that include the
wife of Manuel Zelaya, who was ousted in a 2009 coup.  The final opinion poll last month showed a statistical tie
between Juan Orlando Hernandez, 45, of the ruling National Party
and the Libre Party’s Xiomara Castro, 54, who rose to prominence
by leading protests after her husband was forced out of the
presidential palace at gunpoint. Hernandez had 28 percent
support and Castro 27 percent in an Oct. 9-15 survey by CID-Gallup. The margin of error was 2.5 percentage points.  Violence in the Central American country of 8.3 million
people has escalated in the coup’s wake as gangs tied to Mexican
drug cartels use  Honduras  as a transit point between South
America and the U.S. Hernandez backs President Porfirio Lobo’s
strategy of deploying military police to curb crime, while
Castro says the government has lost control of the streets.  “It comes down to the perspective on security,” said
Enrique Reina, Castro’s vice presidential candidate, in a Nov.
18 phone interview. “The current strategy on security has
failed. The military has been out in the streets since 2001 and
crime rates have not gone down.”  In the eight-candidate race, the Liberal Party’s Mauricio
Villeda, a lawyer and son of a former president, was third with
17 percent support. Whoever gets the most votes in the Nov. 24
election wins. There is no second round.  Drug Flights  Bordered by  Nicaragua , El Salvador and  Guatemala , Honduras
has a murder rate of more than  80 per 100,000 inhabitants , the
highest in the world, according to the United Nations. The U.S.
State Department estimated that last year about 90 percent of
all cocaine smuggling flights departing South America for the
U.S. first land in Honduras, where illegal airstrips abound in
poorly patrolled parts of the country.  Hernandez, who led the national assembly when Zelaya was
ousted, backs Lobo’s plan to deploy 4,000 military police in the
streets to reduce violence, as well as earlier efforts to
introduce drug testing to the national police and justice
system. The new military police would help compensate for one of
the smallest police forces, and highest levels of private
security forces, in Latin America, according to the United
Nations Development Programme.  Messages left for Hernandez and his vice presidential
candidate, Ricardo Alvarez, by Bloomberg News weren’t answered.  “It is essential to recuperate peace and tranquility,”
Hernandez said in an interview with  CNN ’s Spanish-language
channel this month. “Security is key and we are on top of it.”  Community Policing  Castro says the experience in  Mexico , where members of an
elite anti-drug force went on to form their own violent cartel,
the Zetas, shows that such a plan can backfire. Instead, she
says the government should foster smaller, community-based
police groups.  In vying for her first elected office, Castro has rejected
criticism from political opponents that she would be a puppet
for her husband. Zelaya was forced into exile in 2009 after
pushing a national referendum to change the constitution. He
reached an accord with the government to return in 2011. A
victory by Castro would make her the country’s first female
president and end more than a century of rule by the National
and Liberal parties.  “If the question is who is going to rule, the answer is
the person who will be taking over the presidency, there is no
doubt about it,” she said in a Nov. 7 interview with online
channel CB24, wearing a white cowboy hat similar to the one for
which her husband became known.  As difficult as the security situation is in Honduras, the
economy is almost worse, said Eric Olson, the associate director
of the Latin American Program at the Wilson Center in
 Washington .  Slower Growth  The $19 billion economy contracted 2.4 percent in 2009 as
Zelaya’s ouster prompted international condemnation. Growth has
averaged 3.2 percent per year since, less than the 5.7 percent
average in the four years before the coup, according to IMF
data. Economic activity rose 0.8 percent in September compared
with a year earlier. About 61 percent of the population lives in
poverty, according to the World Bank.  “Honduras is borrowing to pay for its bills and often
times doesn’t have enough money to pay police, teachers or
judges,” Olson said.  Investors wary of Zelaya’s former alliance with late
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez have fueled a rally in Honduran
bonds since September as polls showed Hernandez gaining on
Castro, who led earlier this year.  Honduras’s dollar bonds have returned 2.5 percent this
month, compared with a 3.4 percent decline in Latin American
debt over the same period, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBIG index.  IMF Assistance  Contrary to some investor expectations, Castro will work
with the private sector to reduce government spending without
risking economic growth, according to adviser and former central
bank President Noe Pino.  “The government’s resources are very limited since the
fiscal deficit is likely to end the year at 8 percent of GDP
with domestic and external debt to mature in the next four years
taking almost 20 percent of the national budget,” Pino said.  Castro’s support comes from a range of ideologies,
including the business sector, and as president she would
probably seek International Monetary Fund assistance to close
financing gaps, said Jefferson Finch, a Latin America analyst at
the Eurasia Group in New York.  “There is very little room for radical shifts in policy
direction,” Finch wrote in a Nov. 19 report. “A Castro
administration would be more moderate than pundits expect.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabella Cota in San Jose, Costa Rica at 
 icota@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Sabo in Panama City at 
 esabo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  