-- Time Warner Files Plan to Spin Off Magazine Publisher Next Year
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-11-23T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/time-warner-files-plan-to-spin-off-magazine-publisher-next-year.html
Time Warner Inc. (TWX)  filed to spin off
its Time Inc. division next year, turning the publisher of
People,  Sports Illustrated  and Time into the world’s largest
publicly traded magazine company.  Time Inc., publisher of more than 20 titles, will trade as
a new company in 2014, according to a regulatory filing
yesterday. The filing is preliminary and didn’t specify dates
for the spin-off beyond next year.  Separating the magazine unit will shield Time Warner’s more
lucrative cable networks and film studio from the publishing
industry’s struggles with the transition to the Internet and
lower advertising rates. Time Warner Chief Executive Officer
 Jeff Bewkes  said in March he would spin off the unit, which
analysts project has an enterprise value of  about $3.9 billion.  As Time Warner’s worst-performing division, Time Inc.’s
sales through the first nine months of this year fell 3 percent
to $2.38 billion, while operating income climbed 5 percent to
$230 million. For 2012, Time Inc.’s operating profit was $420
million.  Bewkes’s announcement earlier this year followed a failed
attempt to create a joint venture with Meredith Corp., the
publisher of women’s titles such as Ladies’ Home Journal. The
magazines would have formed the basis of a new publicly held
business focused on women, a person familiar with the matter
said at the time. The talks broke down after Time Warner decided
it wanted to unload all of its 21 publications at once instead
of just the women’s-focused titles, the person said.  New CEO  Bewkes named former Time Warner executive Joe Ripp to lead
the company in July. The publisher also added Food & Wine
magazine, Travel & Leisure and Departures when it acquired
American Express Co.’s publishing unit in September.  News Corp . split into two companies in June: News Corp.,
focused on newspaper publishing; and 21st Century Fox Inc.,
which houses the previous company’s more valuable television and
film assets.  As a public company, projections for Time Inc.’s enterprise
value -- or the sum of its equity and debt minus cash -- range
from $2.7 billion to about $4.9 billion, according to six
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Many of Time Inc.’s magazine rivals are closely held,
including  Conde Nast , the New York-based publisher of Vogue and
Vanity Fair that’s owned by Advance Publications Inc., and
Hearst Corp., the publisher of Cosmopolitan.  Starting Debt  Time Warner executives are looking at starting Time Inc.’s
debt at about three times its annual operating income, which
would amount to about $1.2 billion, two people familiar with the
discussions said earlier this year.  By contrast, News Corp.’s publishing business, which
includes the Wall Street Journal and other newspapers, started
with $2.6 billion in cash and no debt when it split off in June.  The separation of Time Inc. marks Time Warner’s third major
spinoff since Bewkes became CEO in 2008.  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) ,
the second-largest U.S. cable company, became independent in
March 2009, while AOL Inc. was spun off later that year.  Time Inc.’s sales have fallen in five of the past seven
years, making it the biggest laggard among Time Warner’s
divisions. The unit’s revenue of $3.4 billion in 2012
represented more than 11 percent of Time Warner’s total sales,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  