-- Indian Rupee Fluctuates as Deficit Outlook Offsets Outflow Woes
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-11-22T05:02:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/indian-rupee-fluctuates-as-deficit-outlook-offsets-outflow-woes.html
India ’s rupee swung between gains
and losses as concern the U.S. will pare stimulus was countered
by the outlook for a smaller current-account deficit.  The  Federal Reserve  may reduce asset purchases in the
coming months, minutes of the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s
Oct. 29-30 meeting showed Nov. 20. The  Reserve Bank  of India
expects the current-account shortfall to narrow 36 percent in
the year through March 2014 from the existing record. The RBI is
cutting back its emergency foreign-exchange swaps for  oil
companies , while those for non-resident Indians are nearing the
scheduled expiry date.  The rupee weakened 0.2 percent to 63.0360 per dollar as of
10:18 a.m. in Mumbai, according to prices from local banks
compiled by Bloomberg. It earlier rose 0.1 percent to 62.8560
and is up 0.1 percent this week.  “The compression in the current-account deficit will
likely keep the rupee supported in the 60 to 63 range even after
the oil and NRI swaps come to an end,”  Rohini Malkani , an
economist at Citigroup Inc. in Mumbai, wrote in an e-mail today.
“There remains an uneasy flux given the uncertainty on the
policy anchor, liquidity framework, RBI swap facilities coming
to an end and the taper overhang.”  The shortfall in the current account will shrink to around
$56 billion this fiscal year from an unprecedented $88 billion
in the prior 12 months, RBI Governor Raghuram Rajan said Nov.
13. Oil refiners are also buying most of their dollars in the
local market as the central bank cuts direct supplies, he said.  Swap Facilities  Rajan announced on Sept. 4 concessional dollar swaps for
banks raising debt overseas and on deposits from Indian citizens
living abroad, which are due to expire on Nov. 30. The
agreements attracted $22.7 billion as of Nov. 20, the RBI said
in a statement.  The governor has increased the benchmark repurchase rate at
the last two meetings to 7.75 percent as he vowed to sustain
confidence in the rupee by keeping inflation low.  One-month implied volatility in the rupee, a gauge of
expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options, rose
nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 11.53 percent.  Three-month offshore non-deliverable rupee forwards
declined 0.4 percent to 64.81 per dollar, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell
assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are
settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  