-- Indonesia Reviews Cattle Imports From Australia Over Spying Spat
-- B y   E k o   L i s t i y o r i n i
-- 2013-11-22T09:21:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/indonesia-reviews-cattle-imports-from-australia-over-spying-spat.html
Indonesia  is reviewing its
dependence on cattle imports from  Australia , in the first sign
that a dispute over phone tapping could affect trade between the
two neighbors.  Indonesia, which takes more than 60 percent of Australia’s
live cattle exports, may revise rules to allow it to import from
other countries, Trade Minister  Gita Wirjawan  told reporters in
Jakarta today.  Malaysia  imports most of its beef from  India  at
half the price of Australian meat, and Indonesia should act to
follow that, Wirjawan said.  Claims that the phone of Indonesian President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono was tapped by Australian intelligence agencies
led protesters in Jakarta to burn flags yesterday and demand a
break in diplomatic ties, escalating tensions between the two
countries to their highest level in 14 years. Yudhoyono has
called for a halt in cooperation on asylum seekers and military
operations.  “If our neighbor is doing tapping that reflects that they
distrust us, and I think that will affect the bilateral
relationship,” said Wirjawan. “We are reviewing the policy, to
not let our sovereignty be disturbed.”  Wirjawan, a potential presidential candidate, last month
shared a stage with Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbott at a
business forum in Jakarta to joke about the two countries’
shared love of protein and to declare warmer ties. Abbott has
ruled out an apology over the alleged tapping, potentially
complicating his bid for a free-trade pact with Indonesia.  Cattle Stations  Two-way trade, which includes wheat, oil and dairy
products, reached A$14.6 billion ($13.4 billion) last year.  Indonesia has ordered 121,000 head of Australian cattle for
import this quarter and is open to further imports if needed,
Bayu Krisnamurthi, the deputy trade minister, said last month
after Abbott brought a trade delegation to Jakarta.  An Indonesian firm last month bought cattle farms in
Australia in an effort to guarantee future supplies, as an
expanding middle class in the world’s fourth most populous
nation eats more beef.  PT Japfa Comfeed Indonesia (JPFA)  said it bought
two cattle properties in the Northern Territory.  “As long as our domestic supply is not enough, we
shouldn’t have supply from one place only,” Wirjawan said. “Of
course this will take time and meanwhile we must maintain price
stability.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eko Listiyorini in Jakarta at 
 elistiyorini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  