-- Minneapolis Fed Board Backs Kocherlakota After Economists Ousted
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2013-11-22T02:02:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/minneapolis-fed-board-backs-kocherlakota-after-economists-ousted.html
The chairman of the Federal Reserve
Bank of Minneapolis voiced support for  Narayana Kocherlakota ,
the bank’s president, after reports he ousted two economists.  The Fed district bank’s board “fully supports the vision
of its president, Narayana Kocherlakota, for the bank’s research
department,” Mary Brainerd, the board’s chairman, said today in
an e-mailed statement. “Under his leadership, the bank has
significantly expanded the size of its research department,
adding diversity in skills and perspectives.”  Kocherlakota on Oct. 18 fired Patrick Kehoe from his post
as a monetary adviser, Ellen McGrattan, a monetary adviser at
the bank, said in an interview. Kehoe, who declined to comment,
had held his position since 1997 and joined the  Minneapolis Fed 
as a consultant in 1989.  McGrattan plans to take a leave from the bank next year to
accept an offer to join the faculty at the  University of
Minnesota .  “If you have an outside offer, typically you would bring
that to your supervisor and they would make a counter-offer or
not,” McGrattan said, adding the district bank didn’t make such
an offer. McGrattan joined the Minneapolis Fed in 1992 as an
economist and has held her current post since 2003.  Kehoe and McGrattan have argued that monetary policy can do
little to reduce unemployment, according to a report yesterday
in the Star Tribune in Minneapolis. Kocherlakota has backed
record easing and has called for even more accommodation from
the Fed.  Near Zero  The policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee (FDTR)  has
committed to hold the main  interest rate  near zero as long as
the jobless rate is above 6.5 percent and the outlook for
inflation doesn’t exceed 2.5 percent. Kocherlakota, an early
advocate of tying policy to economic indicators, has called on
the Fed to step up accommodation by reducing its unemployment
threshold to 5.5 percent.  The Fed district bank’s research department is “in
turmoil,” with “top researchers” being “explicitly and
implicitly shown the door,” Stephen Williamson, a former
Minneapolis Fed economist, said in a Nov. 18 blog post. He is
now a professor at  Washington University  in  St. Louis .  The Minneapolis Fed named a new research director and
senior vice president, Sam Schulhofer-Wohl, on Oct. 23,
replacing Kei-Mu Yi, who has stayed on with the title of special
policy adviser to the president.  Kehoe’s dismissal may hinder efforts by the Minneapolis Fed
to recruit top economists, Williamson said today in a phone
interview. Several Nobel prize-winning economists have been
affiliated with the Fed district bank, including Robert E. Lucas,  a professor at the  University of Chicago , and Thomas Sargent, a professor at  New York  University.  “It’s highly unusual” and “very puzzling” for a senior
economist at a district bank to be fired, especially one who is
as “high profile” as Kehoe, Williamson said. “It’d be too bad
if this threw the whole place in a state of uncertainty.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  