-- Intel Drops After Sales Forecast Falls Short of Estimates
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-11-22T21:04:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/intel-drops-after-sales-forecast-falls-short-of-estimates.html
Intel Corp. (INTC)  dropped the most in 10
months after saying revenue next year will be little changed
from 2013 levels, short of analysts’ estimates.  Intel fell 5.4 percent to $23.87 at the close in  New York ,
the biggest decline since Jan. 18. The stock is up 16 percent so
far this year.  The world’s largest maker of semiconductors said at an
investor meeting yesterday that it will expand access to its
factories for other chipmakers, taking advantage of advanced
production capabilities and seeking to boost revenue sources
amid greater competition. Intel will focus more on providing
what customers want, rather than trying to push its own designs,
Chief Executive Officer Brian Krzanich said at the meeting.  “You have a company that has all the right tools for
success, and you ask why aren’t they able to convert that into
revenue and earnings growth?” said  Doug Freedman , an analyst at
 RBC Capital Markets  in San Francisco, who rates the stock the
equivalent of a buy.  Intel, which has traditionally only made its own chips, is
expanding its foundry business, or manufacturing chips to order
for other companies.  “We’d become insular,” Krzanich said. “We’d become
focused on what was our best product rather than where the
market was moving.”  Tough Business  The company said sales would be approximately the same from
$52.6 billion in 2013, below the $53.7 billion analysts were
 projecting , according to the average of estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Krzanich, 53, who became the company’s sixth CEO in May
when he succeeded  Paul Otellini , is a former factory manager who
ran part of a network of plants that Intel says are the most
advanced in the semiconductor industry.  Otellini had said Intel’s plants were closed to
competitors. Earlier this year, Krzanich said he would consider
changing that stance, and yesterday he confirmed the company’s
willingness to make chips for companies that are beating Intel
in mobile phones.  “We’re needing some kind of signal or sign that mobile is
happening and they’re getting some kind of presence there,”
said Betsy Van Hees, an analyst at Wedbush Securities in San
Francisco. She has the equivalent of a hold rating on the stock.
“The mobile business is an ugly business. It’s very tough.”  ‘Ultra Fast’  Intel also said gross margin, the percentage of sales
remaining after deducting the production costs, will be in the
middle of its target range of between 55 percent and 65 percent,
in line with analysts’ estimates, Chief Financial Officer Stacy Smith said yesterday at a meeting for analysts in in Santa
Clara,  California .  Intel predicts the PC market, measured by units, to be down
in the ‘low single-digit’ percent, Smith said. While spending on
new plants and equipment in 2014 will be little changed from
2013 at around $11 billion, investments aimed at enabling
customers to convert to Intel chips in tablets will hurt total
profitability, he said.  Intel Vice President Hermann Eul, who heads the company’s
mobile division, said Intel will focus on developing parts for a
smaller number of phonemakers with large sales volumes. The
company isn’t giving up on mobile, he said.  “Of course, we would like to do better,” Eul said at the
meeting. “This market is going ultra fast, and the competition
is not standing still while we catch up.”  Mobile Market  The smartphone market will pass  1 billion  units this year,
growing 40 percent from 2012, according to researcher IDC.
Personal-computer shipments are projected to drop  9.7 percent 
worldwide this year, IDC said in August.  Intel, based in  Santa Clara , has yet to garner 1 percent of
the handset processor market. Krzanich has said the company
needs to speed up the delivery of new products for mobile
devices. He addressed the tablet market and said the company
plans to have chips in sub-$100 devices next year and ship more
than 40 million tablet chips.  The PC decline has led some analysts to question Intel’s
 plan  to spend $10.8 billion on new plants and equipment this
year, calling for a reduction in next year’s budget.  The semiconductor maker expects the rate of decline in PC
shipments to slow as demand improves at corporations and in some
developed markets, said Kirk Skaugen, the general manager of
Intel’s PC business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  