-- Intesa Leads Peripheral Bank Bond Sales as Yields Drop to Record
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2013-11-22T12:08:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/intesa-leads-peripheral-bank-bond-sales-as-yields-drop-to-record.html
Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  led the busiest
week for financial company bond sales from  Europe ’s periphery in
a month as yields on the securities fell to a record.  Italy ’s second-biggest bank joined  Portugal ’s Banco
Espirito Santo SA in raising 3.85 billion euros ($5.2 billion)
in debt, the most since the week ending October 25, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The average yield on peripheral
financial corporate bonds dropped to a record 2.73 percent on
Nov. 18 from an all-time high of 10 percent reached two years
ago this month, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  Investor confidence is returning to the periphery as
Ireland prepares to exit its bailout program and after  Spain 
emerged from a two-year recession in the third quarter. Lenders
in Europe’s neediest nations are also strengthening their
balance sheets before the  European Central Bank  begins stress
tests this month to determine whether they’re strong enough to
withstand renewed turmoil.  “Peripheral banks’ fundamentals are generally improving,
in terms of leverage and loan-to-deposit ratios,” said Andrew Sheets, head of European credit strategy at Morgan Stanley in
 London . “That’s probably going to continue into next year.
Also, if you look at government bond spreads there’s better
sentiment toward the periphery and issuers are taking advantage
of that.”  The yield on Italy’s 10-year government bonds fell to 4.1
percent from a year-to-date high of 4.9 percent at the end of
February. The extra yield investors demand to hold Portuguese
 government bonds  instead of German bunds fell to 4.19 percent
from a peak of almost 16 percent in January 2012, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Yield Hunt  The cost of insuring subordinated debt of European lenders
fell to the lowest in 3 1/2 years. The Markit iTraxx Europe
Subordinated Financial index of credit-default swaps, including
contracts on Intesa and UniCredit SpA, fell 4.9 basis points to
148 basis points at 11:48 a.m. in London.  “People are thinking that it’s OK just to reach for yield
for the next few months,” said Paul Smillie, a Singapore-based
banking analyst at Threadneedle Asset Management, which oversees
about $126 billion. “There’s probably a three-month window open
to buy riskier stuff and issuers are taking advantage of that
mentality.”  In the new issue market today, Amsterdam-based oil trader
Trafigura Beheer BV is selling 300 million euros to 500 million
euros of five-year bonds to yield 5.25 percent, according to a
person familiar with the matter.  Royal London Group, the U.K.’s biggest customer-owned life
insurer, is marketing 400 million pounds ($648 million) of 30-year subordinated bonds, according to another person. The notes,
which can be bought back by the company after 10 years, will
yield 6.125 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  