-- IPhone Maker Foxconn to Invest Million in Pennsylvania
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d   a n d   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2013-11-22T02:44:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/iphone-maker-foxconn-to-invest-million-in-pennsylvania.html
Foxconn Technology Group, the
Taipei-based maker of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone, plans to invest $40
million in  Pennsylvania  to develop robotics, joining other
manufacturers seeking to build products in the U.S.  Foxconn flagship company  Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. (2317) 
will invest $30 million over two years to build a high-tech
manufacturing facility for goods including components for
telecommunications equipment and Internet servers, said Terry Gou, the billionaire chairman of Foxconn. It will also fund $10
million worth of research and development at Pittsburgh’s
 Carnegie Mellon University , he said at an event in  Washington 
yesterday.  Foxconn will invest in a manufacturing unit in Harrisburg,
the state capital, to create about 500 jobs, according to a
company statement. It already has a manufacturing facility there
that employs about 30 people.  “We have a long-term history in Harrisburg,” Gou said
yesterday, adding that the investment is part of an American
manufacturing “renaissance” that will boost U.S. employment.  As the maker of some of America’s most popular consumer
electronic devices and the operator of sprawling manufacturing
facilities in  China , Foxconn has emerged as a symbol of U.S.
outsourcing. The company, which counts Cupertino, California-based Apple as its largest client, said in December that it’s
seeking to expand North American operations as customers request
more of their products be domestically made.  Foxconn, also a major supplier to  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , has
1.6 million workers globally, including at factories in
California and Texas that make partially assembled electronics
products, Louis Woo, a company spokesman said at the time.  Relocating Facilities  After the announcement, Hon Hai shares rose 0.3 percent in
Taipei to NT$75.20 as of 10:31 a.m. local time. Taiwan’s
benchmark Taiex index also gained 0.3 percent.  An increasing number of technology companies are relocating
manufacturing facilities to the U.S. because they want their
product designers to be near the manufacturers for quality
control, according to Scott Andes, a senior policy at the
 Brookings Institution ’s Metropolitan Policy Program in
Washington.  “We’ve seen a lot of new insourcing,” Andes said in an
interview. “A lot of this is because companies are beginning to
have a greater sense of the full cost of production.”  Some companies found overseas manufacturing more costly
than expected, he said. “I think a lot of companies jumped the
gun on labor costs alone” and didn’t take into account energy
and transportation costs, which are relatively high in China
when compared to the U.S., he said.  Gou Decision  “We are very, very pleased that companies from overseas
are looking to locate and grow in Pennsylvania,” C. Alan Walker, the state’s secretary for the Department of Community
and  Economic Development , said at the announcement in
Washington. He said Gou made the decision to invest in the state
in recent days after speaking with Governor Tom Corbett, a
Republican.  Hon Hai’s net income for the third quarter rose 1.6 percent
to NT$30.8 billion ($1 billion), beating analyst estimates,
according to a Nov. 13 filing by the company to the  Taiwan Stock
Exchange .  Gou is part of a business delegation to the U.S. led by
former Taiwan Vice President Vincent Siew. In addition to Gou,
members of the delegation visiting New York, Washington and  San
Francisco  this week include Douglas Hsu, chairman of Far Eastern
Group -- which has holdings in industries including energy,
retail and construction -- and Susan Wang, vice chairman of
chemical manufacturer  Formosa Plastics (1301)  Group.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net ;
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  