-- IPhone Maker Foxconn Plans Pennsylvania Investment
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d   a n d   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2013-11-22T00:36:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/iphone-maker-foxconn-plans-pennsylvania-investment.html
Foxconn Technology Group, the
Taipei-based maker of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and iPad, said today
it plans to invest $40 million in facilities in Pennsylvania.  Foxconn flagship company  Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. (2317) 
intends to invest $30 million in high-technology manufacturing
for goods including telecommunications components and $10
million for research on robotics at Pittsburgh’s  Carnegie Mellon
University ,  C. Alan Walker , Pennsylvania’s secretary of
Community and Economic Development, said at an event in
Washington.  “We’re very pleased that companies from overseas are
looking to grow in Pennsylvania,” Walker said.  As the maker of some of America’s most popular consumer
electronic devices, Foxconn, which has sprawling manufacturing
operations in China, has become a symbol of U.S. outsourcing.
Apple, of Cupertino, California, is its largest client.  Foxconn, also a major supplier to  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , said
in December that it’s seeking to expand North American
operations as customers request more of their products be
domestically made. Foxconn has 1.6 million workers globally,
including factories in California and Texas that make partially-assembled products such as servers, Louis Woo, a company
spokesman said at the time.  Terry Gou, the billionaire chairman of Foxconn, will sign a
memorandum of understanding with Pennsylvania, Walker said. Gou
was part of a high-profile delegation of business leaders from
Taiwan visiting the U.S.  Signing Ceremony  No site has been selected yet for the new Foxconn facility
as the discussions are in “the very early stages,” Steven
Kratz, a spokesman for Pennsylvania’s Community and  Economic
Development  Department, said by telephone. The company isn’t
pursuing state assistance, he said.  The project will employ 500 people over two years, Kratz
said. The company already has a facility in Harrisburg, the
state capital, which employs 30, he said.  Hon Hai’s net income for the third quarter rose 1.6 percent
to NT$30.8 billion ($1 billion), beating analyst estimates,
according to a Nov. 13 filing by the company to the  Taiwan Stock
Exchange .  Gou is part of a business delegation led by Taiwan’s former
Vice President Vincent Siew that’s visiting New York, Washington
and  San Francisco  this week. Other members of the group include
Douglas Tong Hsu, chairman of Far Eastern Group -- which has
holdings in industries including energy, retail and construction
-- and Susan Wang, vice chairman of chemical manufacturer
 Formosa Plastics Group. (1301)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net ;
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  