-- Israel’s Labor Party Gets New Leader as Herzog Wins Race
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2013-11-22T10:23:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/israel-s-labor-party-gets-new-leader-as-herzog-wins-race-1-.html
Israel ’s opposition  Labor Party 
elected parliament member Isaac Herzog as its new leader in an
upset victory over incumbent Shelly Yachimovich, a change that
could help peace negotiations with the Palestinians.  Results announced by party officials at a press conference
today following balloting yesterday showed Herzog taking 58
percent of the vote, and Yachimovich 42 percent. A poll
conducted by television’s Channel 2 news last week had
Yachimovich leading by about 30 percentage points.  Herzog, 53, a lawyer before entering politics, is the son
of former Israeli President Chaim Herzog and has held several
ministerial positions in previous governments. Yachimovich is a
former journalist who has emphasized economic issues during her
political career, rather than peacemaking with the Palestinians,
a traditional Labor focus.  “Herzog is an experienced political figure with
established positions on peace and security issues, who is more
capable of unifying the center-left than Yachimovich,” said
David Newman, a political scientist at Ben-Gurion University of
the Negev in Beersheba. The new Labor leader will also probably
be more open to the possibility of joining Prime Minister
 Benjamin Netanyahu ’s coalition under certain conditions, Newman
said in a phone interview.  Herzog, speaking after his victory, said “brave steps”
were needed now to reach peace with the Palestinians. “I’m not
sure -- I have serious doubts -- if Prime Minister Netanyahu
understands this, or can take these actions,” Herzog said in
remarks broadcast on Israel Radio.  Center Stage  Labor is the third-biggest party in Israel’s parliament,
holding 15 of the Knesset’s 120 seats, and leads the opposition.
Labor last held power under Ehud Barak in 2001.  Justice Minister  Tzipi Livni , Israel’s chief negotiator in
talks with the Palestinians, congratulated Herzog and called on
Labor to join the government in order to advance peace efforts.  “Now, after Labor has completed its internal elections, it
has to decide if it’s going to be a party that sits in the
wings, or one that is going to come center stage in order to
help change the future scenario for all of us -- because the
 peace process  needs its unconditional support,” Livni said in
an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  