-- France With Italy, Spain Seek Flexibility in Euro Budget Talks
-- B y   I a n   W i s h a r t   a n d   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2013-11-22T20:48:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/italy-spain-face-budget-scrutiny-as-euro-finance-ministers-meet.html
France,  Italy  and  Spain  sought to
maximize the flexibility of European Union budget-deficit rules
to boost their economies as northern euro-area countries saw
little need for stimulus.  The growth-versus-austerity debate was renewed at a meeting
of finance ministers in Brussels today, as euro-area governments
attempted to coordinate budget policy for 2014 using powers that
were introduced earlier this year as part of their response to a
debt crisis now in its fifth year.  “No, no, no,” Italian Finance Minister Fabrizio Saccomanni told reporters when asked whether his government
would modify its budget. “Reducing the debt load is also our
goal, and we managed that both with fiscal policies by reducing
the shortfalls and with additional measures that they have now
fully understood.”  National budgets are under pressure after the euro zone’s
nascent economic recovery nearly ground to a halt in the third
quarter. The 17-nation economy  expanded 0.1 percent , after 0.3
percent growth in the second quarter, with  unemployment  at a
record 12.2 percent and  inflation  at its lowest level in four
years. The  European Central Bank  is considering combating the
torpor by pushing  interest rates  into negative territory for the
first time.  Germany  remains largely untouched by the slowdown, with
figures today showing business confidence surged to the highest
level in more than 1 1/2 years.  Domestic Demand  That’s the underlying reason why the Germans don’t see any
need for stimulus. At the same time,  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
has signaled her intention to support a national  minimum wage  as
a concession to the  Social Democrats , the party she defeated in
an election on Sept. 22 and with which she is trying to form a
coalition. The move would help spur domestic demand in Germany,
which the EU and southern euro-area nations have said is needed
to rebalance the bloc’s economy by boosting exports from
struggling countries.  “It’s important, even fundamental, to reduce deficits,”
French Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  said.  “But we also
have to give more muscle to growth in  Europe .” He called for
“support for internal demand in countries with external
surpluses.”  With EU rules stipulating that countries must not have
deficits of more than 3 percent of gross domestic product and
debt of no more than 60 percent of GDP, governments have been
under added scrutiny to show that their budgets for 2014 would
keep them on track to meet those targets.  Deficit Target  Last week the European Commission, the EU’s executive arm,
said that without changes to draft spending plans Italy would
miss its target to reduce its debt and Spain may miss its
deficit target because of excessively favorable growth
assumptions. While the EU cannot veto national budgets, today’s
meeting was intended to bring peer pressure to bear.  Saccomanni’s remarks echoed those of Italian Prime Minister
Enrico Letta. “On the European front, for some ayatollahs of
rigor, this is never enough,” Letta said in  Rome . “But Europe
will end up dying of too much rigor, our companies will end up
dying.”  Some Italian measures are works in progress that the
commission has yet to rule on. These include state-asset sales,
a spending review and revaluation of lenders’ stakes in the
capital of the  Bank of Italy .  Coalition Talks  Spanish Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said Spain did not
have further work to do because “our national plan reform will
be enough to comply with the budget deficit targets.” German
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said any Spanish deficit
overshoot will be “extremely small.”  The euro-area’s finance ministers conducted the exercise
without having a finalized spending plan from Germany, the
largest economy in the euro-area, because of continuing
coalition negotiations. Greece, Ireland, Portugal or Cyprus are
subject to different conditions having been granted emergency
aid.  The commission said it would reassess countries’ budget
plans when it issues forecasts for the euro area in February.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Wishart in Brussels at 
 iwishart@bloomberg.net ;
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  