-- J&J, Medivir Win U.S. FDA Approval for Hepatitis C Pill
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-11-23T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/j-j-medivir-win-u-s-approval-for-hepatitis-c-pill.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and  Medivir AB (MVIRB)  won
U.S. approval for their pill to treat chronic hepatitis C, the
first drug allowed for sale in a competition to bring new
treatments for the virus to market.  The Food and Drug Administration cleared simeprevir, to be
called Olysio, in combination with other medicines for the viral
disease that damages the liver, the agency said in a statement.
The drug can shorten current treatment by half, limiting
interferon injections that may cause flu-like symptoms.  J&J, Medivir,  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD)  and  Bristol-Myers Squibb
Co. (BMY)  are among companies developing new pills for the virus to
alleviate the burden of current therapies. The market for
hepatitis C drugs may reach more than $100 billion over a
decade, Bloomberg Industries said. Olysio may generate $447
million for New Brunswick, New Jersey-based J&J in 2016,
according to the average of four analysts’  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg.  “Olysio is the third FDA-approved protease inhibitor to
treat chronic hepatitis C virus infection, and provides health
professionals and patients with a new, effective treatment for
this serious disease,” Edward Cox, director of the Office of
Antimicrobial Products in the FDA’s Center for Drug Evaluation
and Research, said in yesterday’s statement.  Baby Boomers  About 4 million Americans have the  disease , which can cause
liver cirrhosis, according to the National Institutes of Health.
Hepatitis C can be passed through infected blood or body fluids,
most commonly through needle-sharing by drug users. The virus
may be carried for years without symptoms and the U.S. Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention recommended last year that
baby boomers, defined by the agency as those born from 1945 to
1965, get tested for the infection.  The medicine from J&J, the world’s biggest seller of
health-care products, and Huddinge, Sweden-based Medivir, is for
use in combination with pegylated interferon and a pill called
ribavirin for those with genotype 1, the most common form of the
disease, J&J said in a statement. Interferon and ribavirin make
up the backbone of current treatments. Most patients now take
the combination with Merck & Co.’s Victrelis or  Vertex
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (VRTX) ’s Incivek for as long as 48 weeks.  Olysio is in a class of drugs that also include Victrelis
and Incivek, though patients who used it in clinical trials were
treated in just 24 weeks. The experimental hepatitis C pills are
designed to be more convenient to take, reduce treatment times
and avoid the side effects of current therapies.  Study Data  Clinical studies showed 80 percent of patients given Olysio
who had never been treated before no longer had detectable virus
in their blood and 79 percent of those who tried other
treatments before Olysio were cured as well, the FDA said.  The FDA is supposed to decide by Dec. 8 whether to approve
Foster City, California-based Gilead’s sofosbuvir. If cleared
for sale, the medicine would be the first all-oral treatment for
two forms of hepatitis C that make up as many as 25 percent of
patients. Hepatitis C is divided into six genotypes. Genotype 1
patients account for about 70 percent of those in the U.S. who
have the disease.  Olysio’s label suggests patients be screened for a genetic
mutation called Q80K polymorphism that renders the drug
ineffective. In clinical trials the mutation showed up in about
48 percent of U.S. patients with genotype 1a infection, the more
common subtype in the U.S. compared with genotype 1b, which is
more prevalent in Europe and Asia and isn’t typically associated
with the mutation.  Olysio users also are cautioned to limit sun exposure as
some clinical trial participants experience serious
photosensitivity reactions requiring hospitalization.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  