-- J&J Said to Narrow Bidder List to 3 for Diagnostics Business
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   J o d i   X u
-- 2013-11-22T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/j-j-said-to-narrow-bidder-list-to-3-for-diagnostics-business.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  narrowed the list
of possible buyers of its Ortho Clinical Diagnostics business to
three, including a joint bid from  Danaher Corp. (DHR)  and  Blackstone
Group LP (BX) , people with knowledge of the matter said.  The suitors now include Danaher-Blackstone, Carlyle Group
LP and a joint offer from CVC Capital Partners Ltd. and Leonard
Green & Partners LP, said the people, who asked not to be named
because the process is private. J&J received interest from at
least five potential bidders, mostly private-equity firms, the
people said. The company hopes to have a deal done before the
end of the year, one person said.  The health-care giant is trying to shed the unit because it
isn’t a market leader and the company prefers to focus on
molecular diagnostics, J&J Chief Executive Officer  Alex Gorsky 
said in January. Ortho makes diagnostic equipment and sells
tests for everything from cholesterol to fertility hormones. The
division may fetch close to $4 billion, according to one of the
people familiar with the situation.  Ernie Knewitz, a spokesman for New Brunswick, New Jersey-based J&J, declined to comment. Representatives for Blackstone,
Carlyle and CVC declined to comment. A message left with Danaher
outside regular business hours wasn’t returned, and a
representative for Leonard Green didn’t respond to an e-mail
seeking comment.  While Bain Capital Partners LLC had expressed interest in
the company, it’s no longer in the running, one of the people
said. A representative for Bain declined to comment.  J&J hired JPMorgan Chase & Co. to find a buyer for the
diagnostic unit, according to the people familiar with the
situation, after CEO Gorsky said the company would explore
options for the business.  J&J rose less than 1 percent to $95.20 yesterday in New
York. The shares have gained 36 percent this year.  Reuters previously reported that J&J is in final talks with
two bidders, the Danaher-Blackstone group and Carlyle.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jodi Xu in New York at 
 jxu205@bloomberg.net ;
David Welch in New York at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  