-- Japan Ruling LDP Panel Approves Draft of Casino Gambling Bill
-- B y   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2013-11-22T05:02:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/japan-ruling-ldp-panel-approves-draft-of-casino-gambling-bill.html
A draft of a bill legalizing casinos
was approved by a panel of lawmakers from  Japan ’s ruling  Liberal
Democratic Party  today, in a step toward allowing gambling
resorts to be built in Japan.  “We are now able to move forward,” said Ryosei Akazawa,
head of the party’s transport panel, who said he had now been
placed in charge of shepherding the legislation through the
approval process. The next step will be to take the bill to the
party’s policy panel for official backing.  A cross-party group of lawmakers headed by LDP deputy
Secretary General Hiroyuki Hosoda has said it’s preparing to
submit the casino legalization bill to parliament in the current
session, which ends Dec. 6. It is unclear whether junior
coalition partner New Komeito will agree to support the bill.
Generally legislation submitted under Abe’s administration has
been backed by both parties.  “We just listened to the arguments today,” Komeito
lawmaker Kiyohiko Toyama said after a meeting on the bill. “We
haven’t decided anything as a party.”  New Komeito leader Natsuo Yamaguchi said in a Nov. 18
interview that he was doubtful his party would reach consensus
on the legislation before the end of the parliamentary session.
While similar efforts to legalize casinos have petered out in
the past,  Tokyo ’s successful bid for the 2020 Olympics has
spurred anticipation that the law will be passed.  Betting on horse, boat and bicycle racing is allowed, while
casinos are currently banned. International gaming companies
have been mulling billions of dollars in investment in
“integrated resorts” offering accommodation and other forms of
entertainment alongside casinos if the bill is passed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  