-- Jefferson County’s Bankruptcy Left Few Winners
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2013-11-23T20:11:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/jefferson-county-s-bankruptcy-left-few-winners-as-debt-forgiven.html
The impact of Jefferson County’s
bankruptcy will reverberate for decades in Alabama and in the
$3.7 trillion U.S. municipal bond market.  Creditors, including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , agreed to
forgive $1.4 billion of the county’s $3 billion sewer bonds.
Ratepayers, like Charles Hicks, a retired landscaper who lives
on a fixed income in Birmingham, will see his sewer rate rise
about 8 percent annually for the next four years and 3.5 percent
annually thereafter, under a plan approved by a federal judge on
Nov 21.  “There’s a lot of pain going around -- bondholders are
taking large losses, but ratepayers are as well,” said Matt Fabian, a managing director at Concord, Massachusetts-based
Municipal Market Advisors.  For the next 40 years, residents and businesses that
already have some of the highest sewer rates in the country will
pay back more in principal and interest than they owed before
the bankruptcy, according to an analysis by Jim White, a
Birmingham-based financial adviser who did an analysis for
residents challenging the bankruptcy plan. Until  Detroit ’s July
filing, Jefferson County was the nation’s largest municipal
bankruptcy.  Negotiating Deals  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Thomas Bennett dismissed objections
to the county’s debt-reduction plan based on White’s analysis.  The willingness of Alabama’s most populous county to enter
bankruptcy, along with the losses imposed on creditors, may make
bondholders of other distressed municipalities more willing to
negotiate outside of court. Taxpayer groups will look at
Jefferson County and see that bankruptcy won’t wipe away their
obligations, Fabian said.  “It does take the thunder out of taxpayer groups who are
looking to get into bankruptcy just to shed debt, because it
shows that those taxpayers could also be put on the hook to
contribute in the future,” Fabian said.  Some  hedge funds  benefited by purchasing defaulted bonds
for about 65 cents to 70 cents on the dollar from banks that
dumped the debt and received about 80 cents on the dollar as
part of the bankruptcy plan, according to a person familiar with
the purchases who asked for anonymity to discuss the matter.  Funds that bought Jefferson County bonds include Brigade
Capital Management LLC, Claren Road Asset Management LLC,
Fundamental Advisors LP, all based in  New York , and Monarch
Capital Master Partners LP, according to court records.  Attorney Fees  Since filing the $4.2 billion case in November 2011, the
county has spent more than $24 million on attorneys and other
advisers. Most of the payments went to the county’s two main law
firms.  Klee, Tuchin, Bogdanoff & Stern LLP in  Los Angeles , which
is led by Ken Klee, the lawyer who helped rewrite the U.S.
 Bankruptcy Code  in the 1970s, collected $10.1 million in fees
and was reimbursed about $204,000 for expenses. The second firm,
Bradley Arant Boult Cummings LLP, which has offices in
Birmingham, collected $8.2 million in fees and was reimbursed
about $294,000 for expenses.  Under an unusual provision in the exit plan approved by
Bennett, Jefferson County’s commissioners’ power to set and
enforce rates will be limited until almost $1.8 billion in bonds
sold this week to pay creditors are paid off in 2053. The
trustee for bondholders can ask the court to force sewer rate
increases that may be needed to pay the debt.  ‘High Burden’  The challenges facing the county’s finances and its sewer
system won’t end with bankruptcy. Because the new  bond issue 
pushes debt service payments into the future, rising 67 percent
in 2024, the county is facing a projected $1.2 billion gap in
money available to maintain the sewer system. A consulting firm
that conducted a feasibility study for the county said it
couldn’t identify where the county would get money to pay for
 capital spending .  The rate increases pledged to pay debt service will impose
a “high burden” on ratepayers, and would cause rates to
“approach the limits of reasonableness,” according to the
Chicago-based consulting company, Galardi Rothstein Group.  Sewer rates will rise 7.9 percent each year for four years,
starting in 2014, and by almost 3.5 percent annually through
2053. That’s on top of a 329 percent increase from 1997 to 2008
after the county embarked on a capital program to comply with a
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency decree to clean up
discharges into the Cahaba River.  Costs Rose  The cost of Jefferson County’s sewer system ballooned to
$3 billion as the county built treatment plants and laid pipe
without a strategic plan and local officials accepted bribes
from construction contractors and financial advisers seeking
business with the county.  In 2009, JPMorgan agreed to a $722 million settlement with
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission over payments that
the agency said its bankers made to people tied to county
politicians to win business. It also provided more than
$900 million in concessions to allow the county to end its
bankruptcy.  The sewer rate increases will disproportionately affect the
poor. Seventy percent of the sewer system’s users reside in the
commission districts with poorest residents, according to County
Commissioner George Bowman, who voted against the bankruptcy.  ‘Fraudulent’ Process  “This whole process had been fraudulent to the
ratepayer,” said Hicks, 67, the retiree.  Under  Alabama  law, sewer rates must be reasonable and
nondiscriminatory. Ratepayers who objected to the county’s plan
are vowing to continue legal challenges.  Some residents in wealthy Birmingham suburbs, who have
septic tanks and aren’t connected to the sewer system, don’t
have to pay additional charges even though they get the indirect
benefit of the county having clean water.  Calvin Woods, president of the Birmingham Chapter of the
Southern Christian Leadership Conference, said it was wrong that
county officials didn’t spread the pain of rate increases
evenly.  “Unless you’re going to put it across the board on
everybody, you’re still going to have a lot of trouble,” Woods
said. “All of us live in the county.”  The case is In re Jefferson County, 11-bk-05736,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of Alabama (Birmingham).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  