-- Jefferies Added as Falcone IPO Underwriter After Deal
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-11-22T21:16:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/jefferies-added-as-falcone-ipo-underwriter-after-deal.html
Fidelity & Guaranty Life, the
insurer owned by  Philip Falcone ’s  Harbinger Group Inc. (HRG) , added
Jefferies Group LLC as an underwriter for its initial public
offering after the bank took a stake in Harbinger Group.  Jefferies, run by  Richard Handler , and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
were among banks added to manage the share sale, according to a
regulatory filing today from Baltimore-based Fidelity &
Guaranty, which doesn’t say how many shares will be sold or give
a price. The insurer’s previous filings listed only  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  as an underwriter.  The insurer is raising funds as Falcone focuses on his
publicly traded Harbinger Group after a settlement with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission barred him from the hedge-fund industry. Some proceeds will be used to pay a dividend to
Harbinger Group, according to the filing. A  New York  regulator
prohibited Falcone from being an officer or director of Fidelity
& Guaranty for seven years, citing the SEC settlement.  “Increasing demand for retirement and principal protection
products combined with an evolving competitive landscape present
us with significant opportunities to grow,” Fidelity & Guaranty
said in today’s filing.  The firm focuses on sales of fixed-indexed annuities, which
can offer savers some appreciation while limiting the risk of
market losses. Pretax operating income in the 12 months ended
Sept. 30 rose to $518.7 million from $159.8 million a year
earlier, fueled by investment gains, today’s filing shows.  Jefferies Relationship  Jefferies reported  holding  18.6 million shares of Harbinger
Group as of Sept. 30, giving the investment bank a  stake  of
about 13 percent.  Leucadia National Corp. (LUK) , which controls
Jefferies and is also led by Handler, agreed in September to buy
the Harbinger Group shares through subsidiaries for $8.50 apiece
from Falcone’s hedge funds. Harbinger Group was unchanged at
$11.45 in New York trading at 4:15 p.m.  Jefferies has worked with Falcone’s firms before Leucadia
took the Harbinger Group stake. His hedge fund borrowed $190
million from Jefferies, people familiar with the transaction
said last year. The investment bank worked with Harbinger Group
in December when it sold shares in an offering, and with
Fidelity & Guaranty when it issued debt in March.  Falcone’s SEC deal included an admission of wrongdoing for
improperly borrowing money from his funds to pay his personal
income taxes. Falcone, 51, is still listed as Fidelity &
Guaranty’s “ultimate controlling person.” Richard Khaleel, a
spokesman for Jefferies, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  