-- Kansas City Fed’s Manufacturing Survey for November (Text)
-- B y   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2013-11-22T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/kansas-city-fed-s-manufacturing-survey-for-november-text-.html
Following is the text from
the Kansas City Fed’s Manufacturing Survey.  Tenth District manufacturing activity continued to grow in
November, and producers’ expectations for future activity
improved moderately. Respondents continued to comment about
uncertainty holding back activity, although several firms
reported an uptick in hiring plans for skilled positions. Most
price indexes decreased, especially for raw materials, but
remained well above zero.  The month-over-month composite index was 7 in November, up from
6 in October and 2 in September (Tables 1 & 2, Chart). The
composite index is an average of the production, new orders,
employment, supplier delivery time, and raw materials inventory
indexes. The production index fell slightly at nearly all types
of durable goods plants, while production of nondurable goods
products increased, particularly for chemicals and plastics.
Most other month-over-month indexes improved over last month.
The new orders index jumped from 3 to 15, and the order backlog
and employment indexes reached their highest levels since early
2012. In contrast, the production index moderated from 14 to 11,
and the shipments and new orders for exports indexes also
slipped somewhat. The raw materials inventory index decreased
from 12 to 4, and the finished goods inventory index fell into
negative territory.  The majority of year-over-year factory indexes showed
improvement in November. The composite year-over-year index
edged up from 7 to 9, and the production, shipments, new orders,
and order backlog indexes also increased. The capital
expenditures index rose markedly from 7 to 15, while the
employment index was unchanged. The raw materials inventory
index eased from 3 to 0, and the finished goods inventory index
also declined.  Most future factory indexes rebounded after falling somewhat
last month. The future composite index rose from 8 to 12, and
the future production, shipments, and new orders indexes also
increased. The future employment index jumped from 3 to 20, its
highest level since March 2012, and the future workweek index
also rose sharply. The future order backlog and capital
expenditures indexes were basically unchanged. Both future
inventory indexes remained flat over last month.  Price indexes moderated in November, particularly for inputs.
The month-over-month raw materials price index fell from 26 to
17, and the finished goods price index also edged lower. The
year-over-year raw materials price index decreased from 48 to
39, while the finished goods price index was unchanged. The
future raw materials price index dropped from 45 to 31, and the
future finished goods price index eased for the third straight
month, indicating fewer firms plan to pass recent cost increases
through to customers.  SELECTED COMMENTS  “We have been giving our employees a little overtime rather than
hiring more employees.”  “We have seen several new projects finally get completed and
closed this past month.”  “We are pleasantly surprised. New orders are up, however our
distributors still do not want to increase inventory even as
they are selling more due to future fiscal uncertainty.”  “We are striving, with some success, to hire more code welders,
metal fabricators and assembly people to build large compressor
packages to transfer natural gas.”  “We are continuing to see hesitation in significant capital
equipment investment. This is largely attributed to the
uncertainty in the marketplace.”  “It is very difficult to find people. We cannot get people to
work even basic jobs, and it is even harder to find skilled
positions.”  “This is normally a slow time for us, however it seems slower
than usual. Dealers don’t want to buy something they haven’t got
sold because they may have it carry over. Homeowners seem
reluctant to purchase.”  “New regulations and laws are causing costs to increase,
creating uncertainty and holding back the creation of jobs,
particularly Dodd Frank and health care.”  SOURCE: Federal  Reserve Bank  of Kansas City 