-- N.Y. Fed Counsel Says Punish Bankers to Change Culture
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   K e r i   G e i g e r
-- 2013-11-23T05:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/n-y-fed-s-baxter-says-bankers-need-punishment-to-shift-culture.html
Bank culture has gone awry as
financiers focus on transactions instead of customers, and
punishment is one way to fix it, according to a top official at
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.  “There is a need for a cultural shift,” Thomas Baxter,
the New York Fed’s general counsel, told bankers at an industry
conference yesterday. “You need to focus on making examples of
people, and nothing focuses the attention like a hanging. How
are people promoted, how did those people get into those senior
seats? This is another powerful way to send a message.”  Bankers and regulators are clashing as financial firms face
the prospect of even tighter restrictions in the coming months.
 Stephen Cutler ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s general counsel, told the
New York gathering he sees a period of “regulatory spiral,”
and  Barney Frank , sponsor of the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act, said the
Volcker rule that curbs trading will probably be tougher than
bankers want.  Baxter’s remarks at the conference sponsored by The
Clearing House were at least the second time this month that a
New York Fed official has assailed banking culture. President
William C. Dudley cited “the apparent lack of respect for law,
regulation and the public trust” in a Nov. 7 speech. “There is
evidence of deep-seated cultural and ethical failures at many
large financial institutions,” he said.  Baxter cited the industry’s shift away from providing
 customer service  toward one-time deals, Baxter said. Instead of
developing relationships so customers keep coming back, bankers
regard them as a counterparty and profit opportunity, he said.
The attitude is, “that’s today, don’t talk to me about
tomorrow,” he said.  Regulatory Shift  Bank of America Corp.  General Counsel  Gary Lynch , who also
spoke at the convention, said that “regulatory fervor” and
threats of enforcement are increasing and probably won’t abate
for the next couple of years.  “What has become enforcement-worthy has also changed,”
JPMorgan’s Cutler said. A dispute that previously would be
handled through supervision has become something that
regulators, “wholly for rational reasons,” would address with
an enforcement proceeding, Cutler said.  JPMorgan is the biggest  U.S. bank  by assets and is based in
New York. Earlier this month, it agreed to a $13 billion
settlement tied to federal and state claims over faulty
mortgages. Bank of America is ranked second by assets and based
in Charlotte,  North Carolina . Claims tied to bad home loans have
cost the company $50 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  New York  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Keri Geiger in New York at 
 kgeiger4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Eichenbaum at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net  