-- Natural Gas Futures Advance in Survey as Cold Snap Boosts Demand
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2013-11-22T12:04:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/natural-gas-futures-advance-in-survey-as-cold-snap-boosts-demand.html
     Nov. 22 (Bloomberg)-- Natural gas futures may advance next
week to post the longest streak of gains in seven months as a
blast of cold air spurs demand for the heating fuel, a Bloomberg
News survey showed.  Nine of 11 analysts, or 82 percent, forecast that gas
futures will rise on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  through
Nov. 29. Two, or 18 percent, said futures will drop. Last week,
73 percent of participants said  gas prices  would increase.  Below-normal temperatures across most of the contiguous 48
states through the weekend will give way to even lower readings
in eastern states Nov. 26 through Nov. 30, according to MDA
Weather Services in Gaithersburg,  Maryland . Gas prices jumped to
a four-week high yesterday after a government report showed the
first stockpile drop of the heating season.  “We are starting our trek into the withdrawal season,”
said Eric Bickel, a natural gas analyst at  Schneider Electric  in
Louisville,  Kentucky . “The market is going to start tightening
as we see the cold front come across. We will definitely see a
withdrawal next week” that will probably support the market
through the remainder of November.  Natural gas for December delivery gained 4.2 cents, or 1.1
percent, to $3.702 per million British thermal units the first
four days of this week on the New York exchange, heading for a
third consecutive weekly increase. Another advance next week
would cap the biggest winning streak since the four weeks ended
April 19. Gas is up 10 percent this year.  Falling Temperatures  MDA predicted that lower-than-usual temperatures will
linger during the first five days of December.  The low in  Boston  on Nov. 29 will drop to 19 degrees
Fahrenheit (minus 7 Celsius), 15 below average, according to
 AccuWeather Inc.  in  State College ,  Pennsylvania . Houston will
slide to 37 degrees, 12 below normal. About 49 percent of U.S.
households use gas for heating and 39 percent use electricity,
according to the Energy Information Administration, the Energy
Department’s statistical arm.  Gas stockpiles  in the contiguous states dropped 45 billion
cubic feet to 3.789 trillion in the week ended Nov. 15, above
the five-year average decline of 2 billion, the EIA said
yesterday. A  surplus  versus the average narrowed to 0.4 percent
from 1.5 percent a week earlier, the least since a deficit of
1.2 percent on July 26.  The gas survey has correctly forecast the direction of
prices 50 percent of the time since its June 2004 introduction.  Bloomberg’s survey of natural-gas analysts and traders asks
for an assessment of whether Nymex natural-gas futures will
probably rise, fall or remain neutral in the coming week. This
week’s results were:  RISE   FALL   NEUTRAL  9      2      0  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in  New York  at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  