-- Nokia, It’Sugar, Against the Grain: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-11-22T11:54:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/nokia-wwe-it-sugar-against-the-grain-intellectual-property.html
Sierra Wireless Inc. (SW) , a Canadian
maker of communications equipment, complained to European Union
antitrust regulators over  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ’s royalty rates for key
patents.  Sierra Wireless, based in Richmond, British Columbia,
alleges that Nokia charges widely different royalty rates to
license so-called standard-essential patents used for mobile
phones, imposed “unfavorable and unreasonable” royalty terms,
and has refused to license key patents for 3G technology,
according to a company statement. It also asked the U.S. Federal
Trade Commission to investigate Nokia.  The EU is cracking down on potential patent abuse issues,
including Google Inc.’s Motorola Mobility unit, Microsoft Corp.,
Apple Inc. and  Samsung Electronics (005930)  Co., trade victories in
divergent court rulings across the world on intellectual
property. The EU’s antitrust chief Joaquin Almunia has said he’s
targeting “rules of the game” to prevent companies from
unfairly leveraging their inventions to thwart rivals.  Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for the Brussels-based EU
watchdog, said the commission has received the complaint and is
looking at it.  “Nokia regrets that Sierra Wireless is wasting the time of
the European Commission” and other agencies with “its
frivolous complaints, rather than honoring its agreement with
Nokia,” said Mark Durrant, a spokesman for the company.
“Sierra Wireless has been in breach of Nokia’s existing license
terms for several years” and has failed to pay Nokia the
royalty fees it owes, he said.  The EU has opened probes into the possible misuse of patent
injunctions by Motorola Mobility and Samsung, which is seeking
to settle a case triggered by a dispute with Apple. It has also
received complaints from Huawei Technologies Co. against
 InterDigital Inc. (IDCC)  and Google against Nokia and Microsoft.  Nokia, which is selling its handset unit to Microsoft
Corp., is seeking to boost licensing of its patents, chief
financial officer Timo Ihamuotila said this week. The Espoo,
Finland-based company is retaining patents to generate licensing
income.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Minnesota  Twins Oppose WWE’s ‘Bella Twins’ Trademark Application  The Minnesota Twins Major League Baseball team has been
granted a 90-day extension to file its opposition to a trademark
application filed by  World Wrestling Entertainment Inc. (WWE)  of
 Stamford ,  Connecticut .  The  Minneapolis  based Twins team is objecting to an
application filed June 14 to register “Bella Twins” as a mark.
According to the database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office, the mark would be used for wrestling entertainment and
performances by professional wrestlers and entertainers.  WWE uses “Bella Twins” for twin sisters  Brianna and
Nicole Garcia-Colac .  The patent office’s Trademark Trial and Appeal Board has
extended the time for the Minnesota Twins to file papers in
opposition to the mark until Feb. 12.  NCAA Sues Electronic Arts Over Athlete Lawsuit Settlement  The National Collegiate Athletic Association sued
 Electronic Arts Inc. (EA) , saying the video-game maker hasn’t agreed
to indemnify the NCAA for legal claims by college athletes and
hasn’t maintained insurance to do so.  The NCAA is a co-defendant in a consolidated lawsuit by
student basketball and football players who allege their
likenesses were used in video games without compensation.
Electronic Arts in September agreed to settle the claims for $40
million. The NCAA wasn’t involved in the settlement.  The settlement would eliminate Electronic Arts’ contractual
duty to indemnify the Indianapolis-based NCAA for any liability,
as well as for its attorneys’ fees, arising from the NCAA-themed
football and basketball video games, according to the complaint
filed Nov. 4 in Fulton County,  Georgia .  “EA has continually refused to accept its responsibility
for its breaches of the video game licensing agreements and its
obligation to indemnify the NCAA under these agreements,”
according to the complaint.  John Reseburg, a spokesman for Redwood City, California-based Electronic Arts, declined to comment on the lawsuit.  The case is National Collegiate Athletic Association v.
Collegiate Licensing Co., 2013CV238557, Fulton County, Georgia,
Superior Court.  It’Sugar’s Request for Court Order Against I Love Sugar Fails  It’Sugar LLC failed in its bid for an order barring a South
Carolina store from using “I Love Sugar” as its name.  Deerfield Beach, Florida-based It’Sugar, a retail chain
selling candy, filed a trademark infringement suit against I
Love Sugar Inc. in federal court in Florence, South Carolina,
June 17, shortly after  I Love Sugar ’s June 1 opening. The chain
claimed I Love Sugar infringed both its trademarks and the trade
dress.  I Love Sugar operates one candy store in Myrtle Beach, and
since 2008, It’Sugar has operated  one of its stores  nearby in
the same town. The chain had claimed the public was confused by
the name similarity.  It’Sugar operates 38 stand-alone stores, 14 departments
within a store and two kiosks, and generated $115 million in
sales over the past five years, according to court papers.  In its Nov. 19 ruling, the court found that the chain
failed to show its trade dress was “more than merely a
refinement of a previous design that was emerging nationally in
the early 2000s.” The chain also failed to present a consumer
study to show customer confusion, the court said, or to
demonstrate adequately that its trade dress is non-functional.  Star Avenue Capital LLC of Los Angeles acquired a minority
interest in It’Sugar in December 2012.  The case is It’Sugar LLC v. I love Sugar Inc., 2:13-cv-01644, U.S. District Court, District of South Carolina
(Florence).  Anti-Gluten Trend Rises to Trademark Infringement Complaint  Although  Against the Grain Gourmet Foods LLC , whose gluten-free products are carried by  Whole Foods Market Inc. (WFM) , has filed
a trademark infringement suit against  Against All Grain LLC , the
Brattleboro, Vermont-based company hasn’t opposed Against All
Grain’s trademark application.  Against All Grain of Alamo,  California , filed an
application to register its name as a trademark Aug. 27,
according to the database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office. So far no opposition papers have been filed.  The California company said it plans to use the mark for
downloadable electronic books, cookbooks and an on-line journal.
The company is owned by Danielle Walker, the San Francisco-based
author of the “Against All Grain” cookbook featuring grain-free, dairy-free, and gluten-free recipes.  Less than 1 percent of Americans have the disorder that
requires a gluten-free diet, yet almost one in three now eschews
gluten, influenced by bestselling anti-gluten books and
celebrity endorsements, according to trend watchers NPD Group.  The U.S. market for gluten-free foods will climb from $4.2
billion in 2012 to $6.6 billion by 2017, according to researcher
Packaged Facts, as bread bakers, craft-beer makers and eateries
from  Hooters  to Michelin-starred Hakkasan embrace the trend.  In its Oct. 11 complaint in federal court in Brattleboro,
 Vermont , Against the Grain said that to no avail it sent Against
All the Grain a cease-and-desist letter in September. It claims
that it will be harmed and consumers will be confused by the
name similarities.  Against the Grain asked the court to order Against All
Grain to abandon its trademark application, and to bar its use
of “Against All Grain,” together with awards of money damages,
attorney fees and litigation costs.  Against All Grain spokeswoman Eileen Psenka said in an e-mail her company declined to comment on the litigation.  The case is Against the Grain Gourmet Foods LLC v. Against
All grain LLC, 1:13-cv-00276, U.S. District Court, District of
Vermont (Battleboro).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyrights  Court Says Film Company Committed Fraud on Court  In five consolidated cases involving the alleged
unauthorized downloading of adult films, a federal magistrate
judge has ruled that the copyright owner has committed fraud
upon the court and ordered the return of all settlements the
company received in the case.  The suits were filed in federal court in Minnesota by AF
Holdings LLC. The court said the company used fraudulent
copyright-assignment agreements to leverage settlement
agreements.  AF Holdings attached a copyright-assignment agreement to
each complaint purportedly signed by an Alan Cooper on behalf of
AF Holdings. After AF voluntarily dismissed all five cases in
the court learned from sealed filings that four of the vive
settled for amounts ranging of up to $6,000.  Then Cooper filed a motion to intervene in the case, saying
his name and signature were used without his permission. The
court then held a hearing Sept. 30 to determine the authenticity
of the copyright assignments. Counsel for AF testified that
Cooper had given his authority over the telephone for the use of
his name and signature.  “The court expressly disbelieves” this testimony,
Magistrate Judge Franklin L. Noel wrote in his Nov. 6 order.  He
said that not only did Cooper not sign the agreements or give
anyone else permission to sign them, he wasn’t even familiar
with them and had no position with the copyright owner.  The court said that In addition to returning all the
settlement money, AF Holdings had to pay all costs and attorney
fees incurred by the defendants and the cases were to dismissed.  Additionally, the Judge ordered that his order be sent to
the U.S. Attorney for the District of Minnesota, the Minnesota
Attorney General’s Office and lawyer discipline agencies in
Minnesota and  Illinois  for possible action.  The cases are AF Holdings LLC v. John Doe, 0:12-cv-01445,
0:12-cv-01446, 0:12-cv-01447, 0:12-cv-01448 and 0:12-cv-01449,
U.S. District Court, District of Minnesota.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Wikipedia Use by Professor Attacked in Corporate Spy Case  The U.S. government’s  China  expert for an economic
espionage criminal trial copied verbatim from Wikipedia large
portions of a report summarizing his proposed testimony and
should be disqualified, defense attorneys said.  The expert is James Feinerman, an Asian law scholar and
associate dean for transnational programs at Georgetown
University Law Center. He allegedly copied parts of 13 pages of
his 19-page report from Wikipedia entries on China’s economy,
high-technology development plan and Communist party, according
to Stuart Gasner, a lawyer for a California businessman indicted
last year in a trade secrets case. The report, which was filed
in San Francisco federal court, doesn’t mention Wikipedia.  “Feinerman’s pervasive plagiarism from this unreliable and
error-prone source, which has been rejected by federal courts
all over the country, casts serious doubt on the reliability of
his entire testimony,” Gasner said in a court filing.  Feinerman declined to comment on the dispute. Prosecutors
said the professor “used” Wikipedia, while asserting that
doesn’t make his opinions unreliable.  The U.S. hired Feinerman, who said in court papers he
charges $350 an hour, to testify at the January trial of Walter
Liew, who was indicted for conspiring to steal trade secrets
from  DuPont Co. (DD)  for China’s Pangang Group Co. A hearing on the
defense request to disqualify the professor had been scheduled
for Nov. 14 and was canceled by U.S. District Judge Jeffrey White, who may rule any time in coming weeks based on written
submissions.  Excluding the witness may be another setback for federal
prosecutors, who have failed to meet legal requirements for
summoning Pangang to face conspiracy charges in the case, a
prerequisite for bringing the company to trial.  Feinerman’s role in the case is to provide an overview of
the Chinese government’s attempts to persuade its citizens
overseas to steal trade secrets, according to his report.  Prosecutors said that while the professor’s report uses
language that “tracks various Wikipedia entries,” he relied on
a host of sources, both in English and Chinese.  The case is U.S. v. Liew, 11-cr-00573, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in San Francisco at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  