-- Novartis Sets $5 Billion Buyback, Adds Business Segments
-- B y   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r
-- 2013-11-22T17:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/novartis-sets-5-billion-buyback-adds-business-segments.html
Novartis AG (NOVN)  plans to buy back $5
billion in stock over two years and said it will expand in
faster-growing areas of health care such as treatments for skin
and heart diseases.  The repurchases will begin immediately, the Basel,
Switzerland-based company said in a statement before the
company’s annual investor day in  London  today. Novartis will
develop new business segments in dermatology, heart failure,
respiratory illnesses and cell therapy, it said.  The buyback is encouraging investors that Novartis is more
focused on providing a return to shareholders now that former
Chairman  Daniel Vasella  has departed,  Andrew Baum , a
pharmaceuticals analyst with Citigroup Inc. in London, said in a
note to clients. Baum said he hopes the company commits to
providing further returns to shareholders as proceeds of any
asset sales pump up the company’s cash holdings.  “We anticipate further increases in cash returns as the
company divests non-core assets such as animal health over the
next six to 12 months,” Baum said.  The buyback is part of a 10 billion-swiss franc ($11
billion) plan announced in 2008, of which more than three-quarters still remain. Part of the mandate was used to mitigate
the effect of the 2010 purchase of eye-care unit Alcon on
Novartis shareholders,  Eric Althoff , a spokesman for Novartis,
said in a telephone interview.  ‘Nice Gesture’  “The market likes a buyback,”  Michael Leuchten , an
analyst at Barclays Plc in London, said by phone. “I’d say it’s
a nice gesture, when you do the math they’re buying back 2.5
percent of their market capitalization over two years.”  Novartis fell 0.2 percent to 72.2 francs at the close in
Zurich. The stock has returned 30 percent this year including
reinvested dividends, compared with 27 percent for the Bloomberg
Europe Pharmaceutical Index.  Novartis said it wants to save 3 to 4 percent of total
sales over the next two years by focusing on procurement,
consolidating research and reviewing its manufacturing sites.
The company had $56.7 billion in  sales  last year.  Chief Executive Officer  Joe Jimenez  said a “strong and
growing dividend” is important for the company. Last year’s
dividend was 2.30 francs, and this years may be 2.40 francs,
according to a Bloomberg  estimate .  Pipeline Review  The drugmaker also said a review of its pipeline will lead
to more approvals and higher sales by 2017. Novartis’s stable of
cancer drugs and sales are set to grow annually for the next
five years, despite the anticipated loss of exclusivity on its
cancer drug Gleevec, the company said.  The company is interested in bolt-on acquisitions of as
much as $5 billion, Jimenez said in a phone interview today,
with a focus on oncology, specialty medicines, dermatology and
generics. Prices for biotechnology assets “have gone through
the roof,” he said, making it more difficult to add value
through an acquisition in that sector.  The Alcon unit is now set to grow at a mid- to high-single
digit rate. The company said last month group sales would do
better than previously expected.  Europe ’s biggest drugmaker by
sales has begun a review of units such as its animal-health
operation that lack global scale.  The divestiture of some of these units would undo part of
the legacy of Vasella, who stepped down from his post as
chairman in February after 17 years with the company.  Novartis announced this month it would sell its diagnostics
unit to  Grifols SA (GRF)  for $1.68 billion, part of a strategic review
of its market segments. The company now has three units with
global scale, Jimenez said: pharmaceuticals, the eye-care
business Alcon and the generics arm Sandoz. Novartis has said it
wants its businesses to be among the industry leaders or it will
consider divesting them.  The drugmaker has identified its  animal-health  business as
a top candidate for a sale, people familiar with the matter said
this month. Novartis is also considering selling its over-the-counter medicines unit and the vaccines operation, they said,
although no final decision on those assets has been made.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eva von Schaper in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  