-- Honda Adopts English as Official Language in Global Meetings
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-11-22T18:04:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/honda-adopts-english-as-official-language-for-global-meetings.html
Honda Motor Co. (7267)  made English the
official language of global meetings as the Japanese carmaker
shifts decision-making power to regional units.  Chief Executive Officer Takanobu Ito informed global
employees of the change in April, John Mendel, executive vice
president of the Tokyo-based company’s U.S. sales unit, said in
an interview at the Los Angeles Auto Show. Mendel was promoted
to Honda’s North American management committee in 2012, in an
earlier move by Ito to localize business decisions.  The carmaker’s move follows language conversions by
Japanese companies such as  Fast Retailing Co. (9983) , Asia’s biggest
apparel seller, and  Rakuten Inc. (4755) , the country’s largest Internet
mall. Honda’s new rule applies to in-person meetings and video
conferences, raising the chances top executives will use
interpreters, as Fast Retailing President Tadashi Yanai and Ito
himself have done in news media interviews.  “Imagine the shock sent through the operation,” Mendel
said in an interview yesterday. “The CEO stands up and says,
‘All discussions about global operations will be conducted in
English and oh, by the way, if you don’t understand it, get an
interpreter.’”  English Only  Rakuten announced its shift to English as the company’s
official language in 2010 and phased in the language’s use over
two years. The online retailer’s billionaire President Hiroshi Mikitani,  Japan ’s third-richest person, earned an MBA at Harvard
Business School in 1993.  Yanai implemented English as Fast Retailing’s official
language last year, while Tokyo-based tiremaker Bridgestone
Corp. decided last month to gradually implement the English
requirement.  For Honda, change comes as the third-largest Japanese
automaker revamps its Honda and Acura lines to hold off
improving Asian and European competitors and the best vehicles
from U.S. automakers in a generation. Honda this week announced
further modifications to its Civic, the best-selling small car
in the U.S., to stay ahead of Toyota Motor Corp.’s new Corolla,
Hyundai Motor Co.’s Elantra and Ford Motor Co.’s Focus.  Honda’s sales in the U.S., where it’s the fifth-largest
automaker, are up 8.5 percent this year through October and
should end the year at a record high, Mendel said, without
providing a specific number. The company’s best year in the U.S.
was 2007, when Honda and Acura sales reached 1.55 million
vehicles.  Ghosn’s Policy  Honda isn’t the first Japanese automaker to make such a
language shift. Carlos Ghosn, chief executive officer of Nissan
Motor Co. and Renault SA, implemented a similar policy at Nissan
more than a decade ago.  North America accounted for 47 percent of Honda’s revenue
in the 12 months ended March 2013.  Honda’s U.S. sales unit is in Torrance,  California . The
company’s American depositary receipts rose 0.6 percent to
$42.69 at 1:01 p.m. in New York. They gained 15 percent this
year through yesterday.  The adoption of English for global company meetings is a
“small, but not insignificant” change, Mendel said. It’s part
of a “series of things that are being put in place to kind of
provide a different context for our business,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  