-- London Arrests Show Modern Slavery Existing in Developed World
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-11-22T13:33:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/london-arrests-show-modern-slavery-existing-in-developed-world.html
The arrest of a  London  couple for
enslaving three women for more than 30 years has put a spotlight
on slavery in the developed world, a crime that has shaken
communities from  Austria  to  Ohio .  Police arrested the man and woman, both 67, at their home
in the Lambeth area of London yesterday after a charity was
contacted by one of the women in October. She claimed to have
been held against her will for three decades along with two
other women, London police said.  The case, which police said is one of the worst they’ve
seen in the country, is reminiscent of the discovery in May of
three women at the home of Ariel Castro in  Cleveland , Ohio, who
were missing for about a decade. In 2009, Josef Fritzl, the
Austrian who imprisoned his daughter in a secret cellar for 24
years and killed one of the seven children he fathered with her,
was jailed for life.  “We are shocked but unfortunately not surprised; modern
slavery is all too common all over the world and in the U.K.,”
said Aidan McQuade, director of Anti-Slavery International. The
group “found that too often people trafficked from outside of
the European Union are merely treated merely as illegal
immigrants rather than victims of a serious crime.”  The U.K. government estimates there are around 4,000 people
being held in slavery in the country, according to the London-based charity.  ‘Highly Traumatized’  The three women, a 30-year-old Briton, a 57-year-old Irish
national and a 69-year-old Malaysian, were rescued by British
authorities Oct. 25. The couple, who aren’t British, have been
released on bail until January, the  Metropolitan Police Service 
said in a statement today.  “These women are highly traumatized, having been held in
servitude for at least 30 years with no real exposure to the
outside world, and, trying to find out exactly what has happened
over three decades will understandably take some time,”
Detective Inspector Kevin Hyland said in the statement. “Our
unit deals with many cases every year but has never unearthed
such a staggering example of people held against their will for
their whole lifetime.”  One of the victims, the Irish woman, called Freedom Charity
on Oct. 18 after seeing a British Broadcasting Corp.
documentary, police said. The women had “some controlled
freedom,” while there is no evidence to suggest that there was
“anything of a sexual nature,” they said. Calls to Freedom
Charity weren’t immediately returned.  ‘Mere Commodities’  According to a U.K. government  report  on human trafficking,
1,186 people were identified as victims in 2012, an increase of
25 percent from the previous year.  “Modern slavery has been allowed to grow and develop in
the U.K. because of demand,” Andrew Wallis, the chief executive
officer of the anti-slavery group Unseen, said in a report
earlier this year. “Together we have allowed human beings to be
bought and sold as mere commodities for profit, gain or
gratification.”  In October, the U.K. Home Office said the maximum sentence
for trafficking-related offenses would be increased to  life
imprisonment  as part of the Modern Slavery Bill. The law is
scheduled to be published in draft form this year.  The bill will “send the strongest possible message to
criminals that if you are involved in this disgusting trade in
human beings, you will be arrested, you will be prosecuted and
you will be locked up,” James Brokenshire, the crime and
security minister, said at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  