-- Long-Bond Gains Seen Short-Lived as Fed Taper Nears: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-11-22T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/long-bond-gains-seen-short-lived-as-fed-taper-nears-muni-credit.html
The biggest rally in 30-year state
and local debt since June may be fleeting amid signs the  Federal
Reserve  will begin cutting back its bond purchases, leading to
higher interest rates.  Investors this week demanded as little as 1.24 percentage
points of  extra yield  to own municipal securities maturing in
2043 rather than those due in a decade, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That was the least in five months. Longer bonds
typically offer higher yields to compensate for the added risk
of the lengthier holding period, though the gap fluctuates
according to the outlook for inflation and interest rates.  Long-term munis have earned about 0.6 percent in the past
month, compared with 0.3 percent for the shortest maturities,
 Standard & Poor’s  data show. The outsize gain gives individuals
a chance to shorten maturities as bets mounts that the Fed will
curb its bond buying, said  John Dillon  at Morgan Stanley Wealth
Management. For issuers such as Florida’s Sarasota County, it’s
an opportunity to lock in lower borrowing costs for decades.  “Rates are more likely to rise than fall in the near
future, and that’s what hinders me from saying go out all the
way on the end of the curve,” said Dillon, the company’s head
of muni strategy in Purchase,  New York . “You’re not getting
paid to do so, and interest rates won’t be in your favor.”  Fed Spark  This wouldn’t be the first time this year for munis to be
undermined by bets on the Fed’s plans. Yields set a two-year
high in June after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s comments that
the central bank would slow its buying in 2013 if the economy
continued to improve. He unexpectedly decided in September to
refrain from curbing the purchases.  Even with this month’s muni earnings, the mid-year yield
leap leaves the $3.7 trillion market poised for its first annual
loss since 2008, joining declines in Treasuries and company
debt.  Long bonds have still been the worst place for muni
investors in 2013, losing 1.5 percent while the shortest
maturities have gained 1 percent, S&P data show.  Investors have been watching the central bank’s policy
decisions for guidance on interest rates.  Fed officials may reduce their $85 billion in monthly
purchases of Treasuries and mortgage debt “in coming months”
as the economy improves, according to minutes of their last
meeting released this week. The minutes also show discussion on
how to increase the clarity of their plans to hold their target
for the benchmark overnight interest rate near zero.  Suits Gross  If the Fed keeps the overnight rate where it is, the
“front end fits the bill,”  Bill Gross , manager of the world’s
biggest bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co. in
 Newport Beach ,  California , wrote yesterday in a message on
Twitter.  The central bank probably won’t taper bond purchases until
March, according to the median of 32 economist estimates in a
Nov. 8 Bloomberg survey.  It would be the first time since 2008 that short-term
securities have beaten their longer-maturity counterparts, S&P
data show.  “The demand for short paper has been extraordinary,” said
Jim Grabovac, senior portfolio manager at  Oak Brook , Illinois-based McDonnell Investment Management, which oversees about $8.5
billion in munis. “The investor preference is to get out of the
long end and stay short.”  Sarasota Surprise  Benchmark 30-year muni  yields  ended October at 4.33 percent
and were at 4.16 percent yesterday, Bloomberg data show. They
started the year at about 2.76 percent. This month’s drop offers
local issuers a shot at reduced borrowing costs.  Sarasota County on  Florida ’s west coast plans to offer in
bonds on Dec. 3 to acquire Dolomite Utilities Corp., a water and
sewage system that distributes to 9,000 people in the locality.
The longest-maturing portion of the deal is due in October 2043.  George MacFarlane, manager of business operations for the
county’s public utilities, said in an interview that the decline
in 30-year yields in the past month was a “nice surprise”
after interest rates rose earlier in the year.  The municipality is borrowing amid outflows from long-term
muni mutual funds. Individuals have added assets to the funds in
only one of the past 38 weeks, Lipper US Fund Flows data show.  Vote’s In  “Investors are voting with their feet -- they’re concerned
about where rates are going to go,” Morgan Stanley’s Dillon
said. “If you look further out on the curve, you really see the
law of diminishing returns.”  Issuers from New York to  Arizona  are set to offer about
$1.3 billion in long-term debt next week, after selling about
$7.8 billion this week, Bloomberg data show. The market is
closed Nov. 28 for the U.S. Thanksgiving holiday.  The  interest rate  on AAA 10-year munis is  2.83 percent , the
highest in a month, Bloomberg data show. Similar-maturity
Treasuries yield  2.78 percent .  The ratio of the yields, a gauge of relative value, is
about 102 percent. It compares with an average of 94 percent
since 2001. The smaller the number, the more expensive munis are
compared with federal securities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  