-- ONGC Videsh Seeks Proposals for $1 Billion, 5-Year Dollar Loan
-- B y   A n u r a g   J o s h i   a n d   D e b j i t   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 2013-11-22T10:49:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/ongc-videsh-seeks-proposals-for-1-billion-5-year-dollar-loan.html
ONGC Videsh Ltd., the overseas unit
of India’s largest oil explorer, is seeking a $1 billion loan,
according to a person familiar with the matter.  The facility would have a tenor of five years and banks
have been asked to respond with proposals, the person said,
asking not to be identified because the details are private.  ONGC Videsh, a unit of  Oil & Natural Gas Corp. (ONGC) , is raising
debt to help finance its $2.64 billion purchase of a 10 percent
stake in a Mozambique gas field from  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) ,
adding to its interest in the African nation’s energy asset.  In June, ONGC Videsh and  Oil India Ltd. (OINL)  bought a 10 percent
stake in the same Mozambique gas field from Videocon Industries
Ltd., and ONGC Videsh last month hired banks including Australia
& New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. and BNP Paribas SA for a $1.5
billion, one-year term loan related to that deal.  “There are two different transactions,” ONGC Chairman
Sudhir Vasudeva told reporters on Nov. 13. The $1.5 billion loan
will fund the purchase of the stake from Videocon, while a new
facility will be used for the Anadarko deal, he said.  Borrowing in dollars has become more attractive for
companies in  India  after the central bank raised the  benchmark
repurchase rate  by 50 basis points, or half percentage point, to
7.75 percent since September.  International loans in India total $4.3 billion so far this
quarter, versus $2.4 billion in the three months ended Sept. 30,
the lowest in three years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The Videocon deal will close by the end of December, and
the stake purchase from Anadarko by February, Vasudeva said.  ONGC Videsh also sought bids from banks last month for a
benchmark-sized U.S. dollar-denominated bond, people familiar
with that matter said. The notes will be guaranteed by Oil &
Natural Gas, those people said.  Oil & Natural Gas has $1.45 billion of dollar-denominated
 bonds and loans outstanding  out of total bonds and loans
outstanding of $1.82 billion, Bloomberg-compiled data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anurag Joshi in Mumbai at 
 ajoshi53@bloomberg.net ;
Debjit Chakraborty in New Delhi at 
 dchakrabor10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  