-- Orange Says Dominican Sale Imminent for More Than $1.35 Billion
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-11-22T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/orange-says-dominican-sale-imminent-for-more-than-1-35-billion.html
Orange SA (ORA) ,  France ’s biggest phone
company, is set to announce the sale of its Dominican Republic
unit for more than 1 billion euros ($1.35 billion), Chief
Executive Officer Stephane Richard said.  “There’s a high probability we’ll make an announcement
about selling our Dominican Republic unit in the coming days for
a price well above 1 billion euros,” Richard told reporters
today at a conference in Barcelona. “We have no plans today to
use that cash to make acquisitions -- it will give us more
balance-sheet flexibility.”  Orange put its Dominican Republic business up for sale this
year and has said it attracted multiple bids for the asset.
Digicel Group Ltd., seeking to expand its position as the
Caribbean’s largest phone company, is among the bidders, people
with knowledge of the matter said in September.  Sales and earnings at Orange are falling as competition
with rivals including discounter  Iliad SA (ILD)  weighs on prices. The
former French phone monopoly’s stock has rebounded since
reaching a decade low in early July, partly reflecting Richard’s
efforts to reduce expenses.  The Paris-based company, which has diversified into
countries from  Poland  to  Egypt , is also trying to keep a lid on
debt. The company will reach all its  targets  this year and is
sticking with its 2014 forecast to stabilize earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, Richard said.  “For 2013 I can confirm very comfortably we will reach all
our targets and we will be above expectations on cost
reductions,” Richard said. “For next year, our ambition is
still to stabilize Ebitda -- I think we have the capacity to do
it. We’ll have to be very ambitious on costs.”  U.K. IPO?  “Clearly we want to stay very serious and disciplined in
terms of  debt position ,” Richard said. “That means we have no
significant financial margin to do M&A and, when we think that
it is logical, we can also sell some assets.”  Orange is still considering strategic alternatives
including an initial public offering for EE, its U.K. wireless
venture with  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , Richard said.  “All options are open for EE -- an IPO can be one, so can
a status quo of shareholdership with Deutsche Telekom and
bringing in an investment bank,” Richard said. “No decision
has been made.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  