-- Osborne Orders Probe Into Co-Op Bank After Flowers Scandal
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-11-23T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/osborne-orders-probe-into-co-op-bank-after-flowers-scandal.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  ordered an independent inquiry into events at Co-operative Bank Plc after the lender’s parent ceded control and
former Chairman Paul Flowers was arrested.  Agreement was reached on the investigation with the
Prudential Regulation Authority and the Financial Conduct
Authority, the Treasury in  London  said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday. It will be led by an independent person appointed by
the regulators.  Co-Operative Group Ltd., the bank’s parent, relinquished
control of the lender to bondholders last month to help plug a
1.5 billion-pound ($2.4 billion) capital shortfall. The
company’s chairman, Len Wardle, resigned this week after leading
the board that appointed Flowers.  The investigation, using powers under last year’s Financial
Services Act, won’t start until it’s clear it won’t prejudice
any actions the relevant authorities may take, the Treasury
said. That would include inquiries by the police as well as
potential probes by the FCA and the PRA.  Flowers, 63, was arrested two days ago as part of a drug
probe after he was filmed buying crack cocaine by a U.K.
newspaper, said a person with knowledge of the matter who asked
not to be identified because the investigation was confidential.
West Yorkshire Police said in a statement that a 63-year-old man
had been detained in a “drugs-supply investigation.”  Crack Cocaine  The Mail on Sunday reported Nov. 17 that Flowers bought
crystal methamphetamine and crack cocaine in Leeds, northern
 England . Flowers, who is a Methodist minister, was Co-Op Bank’s
chairman from March 2010 until June of this year.  “This year has been incredibly difficult, with a death in
the family and the pressures of my role with the Co-Operative
Bank,” Flowers said in a Nov. 17 statement. “At the lowest
point in this terrible period, I did things that were stupid and
wrong. I am sorry for this, and I am seeking professional help,
and apologize to all I have hurt or failed by my actions.”  His home in Bradford, near Leeds, was searched on Nov. 19
as part of the police investigation.  Patrick Tooher, a spokesman for Co-Op Bank, didn’t
immediately respond to a voice-mail message seeking comment on
the Treasury’s announcement.  ‘Difficult Times’  The bank, based in Manchester, northwest England, said in a
statement Nov. 19 it’s facing “difficult times,” though it
will emerge “stronger than ever.”  Regulators pressed Co-Operative Group, which has businesses
ranging from supermarkets to funeral parlors, to close the
capital shortfall at the bank following the failure of its bid
for more than 600 branches owned by  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , a
deal that would have more than doubled its number of outlets.  In testimony to Parliament’s Treasury Committee earlier
this month, Flowers said he didn’t have the skills of a banker,
when asked about his financial experience. He’d worked for four
years at Westminster Bank, a forerunner to Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc’s NatWest bank, before becoming a Methodist
minister, and his expertise was probably “out of date,” he
said.  Co-Op Bank will close about 50 of its 324 branches by the
end of 2014, it said Nov. 4 when it announced the deal under
which creditors will own about 70 percent of the company. It
will cut a “significant” number of jobs among its 7,800 staff.  Britannia Assets  Bank of England Deputy Governor  Andrew Bailey  told
lawmakers in July the “main issue” that brought down Co-Op
Bank was the assets it acquired from Britannia Building Society
in 2009. Those souring loans prompted the lender to report a
fourfold increase in impairments in 2012 and a pretax loss of
673.7 million pounds.  The FCA and PRA welcomed the Treasury’s announcement and
said they will make their “full resources” available to
support the inquiry.  “The timing of the investigation must not prejudice any
other criminal or regulatory proceedings,”  the two regulators
said. Both said they are “undertaking work” to establish
whether they should start “a formal enforcement investigation”
and expect to make a decision soon.  ‘Higher Standards’  “The government is determined to create a stronger and
safer banking system; a key part of this is reforming the
regulatory regime for senior managers,” the Treasury said.
“The government’s Banking Reform Bill, which is currently
passing through the House of Lords, will introduce a new senior
managers’ regime, subjecting decision makers in banks to higher
standards that means if they fail in their duties they will be
held to account.”  “The Co-Op Bank’s problems appear to have developed over
many years,” Treasury Committee Chairman  Andrew Tyrie , from
Osborne’s  Conservative Party , said in an e-mailed statement.
“The scope of the review will need to be wide. It should
examine the role of the regulators and the appropriateness of
the Co-Op’s unique business model for running large banks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  