-- OSX to Miss Bond Payment as It Seeks Standstill: Brazil Credit
-- B y   B o r i s   K o r b y   a n d   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a
-- 2013-11-22T10:53:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/osx-to-miss-bond-payment-as-it-seeks-standstill-brazil-credit.html
OSX Brasil SA, the shipbuilder of
former billionaire  Eike Batista , will miss next month’s interest
payment on $500 million of ship-backed bonds as it seeks a
standstill agreement with creditors.  OSX notified bond trustee Norsk Tillitsmann AS of its
intentions in a  letter  released yesterday. The $11.56 million
payment on bonds maturing 2015 is due Dec. 20. OSX is seeking to
defer the payment to March, according to an Oct. 21 summary of
talks between the company, the trustee, bondholders and their
advisers that was provided by Norsk Tillitsmann. The notes were
little changed yesterday after falling 23 percent this year,
more than three times the average drop in  emerging markets , data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  While OSX declared bankruptcy earlier this month, its
leasing unit, through which the company owns the ship securing
the debt, wasn’t part of the judicial recovery petition filed in
a  Rio de Janeiro  court. Batista was  Brazil ’s richest man, with
personal wealth that exceeded $34 billion, after OGX’s initial
success finding oil in shallow waters off the coast of Rio de
Janeiro sparked a stock market rally. His commodity empire
crumbled this year as his flagship company was unable to meet
oil production expectations.  “Eike wants to buy time,” Russ Dallen, a fixed-income
investor at Caracas  Capital Markets , said in a telephone
interview from Miami. “He’s trying to keep this group out of
the bankruptcy filing. I don’t think they will necessarily grant
a standstill. There are some that want the cash and want out.”  ‘Comprehensive Solution’  OSX’s press office didn’t respond to calls and e-mails
seeking comment.  “We expect to maintain our good faith discussions in order
to reach a mutually acceptable standstill and a comprehensive
solution for all issues under the bond agreement,” OSX’s
advisers said in the letter to the trustee.  The notes, which traded at 80 cents on the dollar
yesterday, are backed by an $800 million production, storage and
offloading vessel, known as OSX-3, which was intended to be
leased to bankrupt sister company OGX Petroleo & Gas
Participacoes SA to pump oil off the coast of Brazil.  OSX bonds are now trading without accrued interest,
according to  Michael Roche , an emerging-market strategist at
broker-dealer Seaport Group LLC.  “Quite a number of people were caught by surprise for
certain,” Roche said in a telephone interview from  New York 
yesterday. If OSX doesn’t “get the standstill, investors will
seek to exercise their rights as secured creditors.”  OSX’s announcement comes after OGX missed a $45 million
debt payment Oct. 1.  Ship Seizure  If OSX misses the coupon payment without persuading
bondholders to agree to the proposed standstill request,
creditors will probably begin the process of seizing the ship to
recoup their money, Dallen said.  OSX bondholders have already hired law firm Bingham
McCutchen LLP to help them navigate the process of taking
control of their collateral, two people briefed on the
arrangements who asked not to be identified because they’re not
authorized to speak publicly said in September.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Korby in New York at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net ;
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  