-- Louisiana School Vouchers Must Face Test Under 1975 Order
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-11-22T22:38:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/louisiana-school-vouchers-must-face-test-under-1975-order.html
Louisiana ’s school voucher program
allowing low-income public school students pay private school
tuition with public money is subject to review under a 1975
court order in a desegregation case, a U.S. judge ruled.  The Student Scholarships for Educational Excellence
Program, which also lets qualifying students attend some high-performing public schools, was signed into law last year by
Republican Governor  Bobby Jindal .  The federal government, in papers filed with U.S. District
Judge Ivan Lemelle in New Orleans, said the voucher program is
subject to review for possible effects on school desegregation
under the 1975 order. The state said in its own filing that the
ruling didn’t apply.  Lemelle, at a hearing today, directed the U.S. and the
state to jointly examine the racial impact of the voucher
program, according to both sides of the dispute.  “The judge has indicated he wants both parties to
determine a process that does not allow the scholarship program
to send state aid to segregated private schools,” Jindal said
in a statement, adding that the state already ensures that
doesn’t occur.  Lemelle also said he didn’t want to disrupt the voucher
program, the governor said.  Equal Protection  The underlying desegregation lawsuit, Brumfield v. Dodd,
was filed in federal court in 1971 and challenged state aid to
private schools that discriminated on the basis of race. Four
years later, the court held that providing books, supplies or
transportation to children attending such schools violated the
U.S. Constitution’s guarantee of equal protection under the law.  In papers filed with Lemelle this month, the state argued
that that 1975 ruling and others in the case didn’t apply to the
voucher program.  “The  United States  has asked this court to exercise
authority it does not have in a manner that undermines both the
goals of desegregation and the authority of parents to decide
for themselves what is best for their children,” Louisiana’s
lawyers said.  Attorneys for the U.S. Justice Department said earlier
rulings required Louisiana to give the federal government
sufficient information about state assistance and the assignment
of students to participating schools to determine whether those
actions are “consistent with its obligations” to not aid
discriminatory schools or impede desegregation.  “This should not have been controversial in the first
place,” Dena Iverson, a Justice Department spokeswoman, said
today in an e-mailed statement. “We look forward to working
with the state to put in place a process to make sure that
school vouchers are not promoting segregation in schools across
the state.”  The case is Brumfield v. Dodd, 71-cv-01316, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Louisiana ( New Orleans ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in federal court in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  