-- Pakistan Plans Nuclear Power Plant With China Amid Energy Woes
-- B y   A u g u s t i n e   A n t h o n y
-- 2013-11-22T11:57:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/pakistan-plans-nuclear-power-plant-with-china-amid-energy-woes.html
Pakistan  plans to construct a civil
nuclear power plant with  China ’s help in the country’s biggest
city to meet growing demand for energy, Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif said today.  “We and China are building this plant together,” Sharif
told a seminar in Islamabad that was televised live by state-run
PTV. He plans to travel to Karachi on Nov. 26 to lay the
foundation stone of Pakistan’s sixth nuclear power plant, which
he said will produce 2,117 megawatts of electricity.  China has helped Pakistan build two atomic reactors at
Chashma in Punjab province, and is assisting with two more under
construction at the same site. The new plant would be the second
in Karachi.  Sharif regained power for a record third time in a May
election on a pledge to end chronic power shortages that have
weighed on growth in the country’s $231 billion economy. The IMF
approved a $6.6 billion loan in September for the South Asian
nation to help stabilize the economy, which has also been hurt
by a Taliban insurgency.  Nuclear-armed Pakistan’s growing dependence on long-time
ally China follows years of strained relations with the U.S.
amid the war in  Afghanistan  and American drone attacks against
Pakistani guerrillas in the country’s tribal areas.  “Drone attacks on Pakistan are totally unacceptable,”
Sharif said during the speech at the seminar.  U.S. Agreement  Even so, Pakistan is seeking a civil nuclear agreement with
the U.S. similar to the one President George W. Bush reached
with  India  in 2008 as it seeks to do away with power cuts
lasting as long as 18 hours a day during peak demand in summer.
Pakistan tested nuclear devices in 1998, after India conducted
similar experiments.  Blackouts in Pakistan have sparked violent street protests
in the past and contributed to the defeat of former President
Asif Ali Zardari’s party in May. Sharif said in his party
manifesto that his administration plans to attract $20 billion
in investment to add 10,000 megawatts to the grid in five years.  Electricity interruptions, as well as shortages of natural
gas, sliced two percentage points off economic growth in the
fiscal year that ended in June 2012, the most recent year for
which data is available from Pakistan’s Planning Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Augustine Anthony in Islamabad at 
 aanthony9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Ten Kate at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net  