-- Pakistani Doctor Who Hunted Bin Laden Accused of Murder
-- B y   K h u r r u m   A n i s   a n d   F a s e e h   M a n g i
-- 2013-11-22T16:25:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/pakistani-doctor-who-hunted-bin-laden-accused-of-murder.html
A Pakistani doctor who helped the
U.S. track down Osama  bin Laden  faces charges in a murder case
after a woman accused him of causing the death of her son from
an operation six years ago, a defense lawyer said.  A court in the Khyber tribal region along the border with
Afghanistan has registered a case based on the complaint by the
woman against the doctor, Shakil Afridi, his lawyer Samiullah
Afridi said by phone from the city of  Peshawar .  Doctor Afridi already is imprisoned after being sentenced
to 33 years in jail in 2012 for providing funding and medical
assistance to the militants of the now-defunct group Lashkar-e-Islami. He hasn’t been charged for covert ties to the U.S.
Central Intelligence Agency that the Pakistani government
denounced.  U.S. and Pakistani officials have said Afridi ran a fake
vaccination program in Abbottabad, the Pakistani town where bin
Laden hid for as long as five years, in a bid to obtain a DNA
sample from those living in the compound where bin Laden was
shot dead by Navy SEALs in 2011.  The Obama administration has criticized Afridi’s conviction
and has pushed Pakistan to release the doctor. The issue was
again raised during Prime Minister  Nawaz Sharif ’s official visit
to the U.S. in October.  “The hearing in the murder case will begin next month at
the Peshawar Central Jail where Shakil has been kept since the
bin Laden episode,” said the lawyer Afridi, who represents
Shakil in the previous case and isn’t related to him.  An appeals court has set aside the conviction for aiding
militants and has ordered a rehearing, according to the lawyer.  Death After Surgery  In the new case, the mother, Naseeba Gul, alleges that
Shakil wasn’t qualified to conduct the surgery in 2007 that
resulted in her son’s death later. Gul filed the complaint a
month ago, the lawyer said.  Officials in Islamabad and the U.S.,  Pakistan ’s biggest aid
donor, have tried to improve ties that were frayed by the bin
Laden raid and by a U.S. air strike later that year that killed
24 Pakistani soldiers who were manning a post along the border
with Afghanistan.  Ties between the two allies are facing new strains after
Pakistani Taliban leader Hakimullah Mehsud was killed in a U.S.
drone attack on Nov. 1.  Mehsud was indicted in the U.S. for his alleged role in a
suicide bombing that killed seven CIA employees in Afghanistan
in 2009. Pakistan said his killing scuttled efforts to bring
militants to the negotiating table to end more than a decade of
violence. Another U.S drone strike killed six Afghans in the
northwestern town of Hangu on Nov. 21.  The U.S. is seeking Pakistan’s support as it withdraws
troops from  Afghanistan  and bids to negotiate peace terms with
Taliban guerrillas and other militant groups after a decade-long
conflict.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Khurrum Anis in Karachi at 
 kkhan14@bloomberg.net ;
Faseeh Mangi in Karachi at 
 fmangi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Ten Kate at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net  