-- Payday Lender DFC Withdraws $650 Million High-Yield Bond
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r   a n d   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r
-- 2013-11-22T20:43:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/payday-lender-dfc-said-to-withdraw-650-million-junk-bond.html
DFC Global Corp. (DLLR) , which runs Money
Mart payday lenders, withdrew a $650 million sale of high-yield
bonds denominated in Canadian dollars and British pounds as
rising regulation squeezes revenue.  DFC, which operates under the name of Money Mart in most of
 Canada  and Insta Cheques in  Quebec , was planning to use the
proceeds to refinance $600 million of 10.375 percent notes
maturing in 2016. Prices of the 2016 bonds fell as much as 1
percent, while the company’s  shares  dropped 5.6 percent.  DFC’s  revenues  came under pressure last quarter as U.K.
authorities moved to tighten regulations on unsecured consumer
lenders, causing Standard & Poor’s to  downgrade  their credit
rating. The company also posted revenue declines in the U.S.
last quarter, where it is taking “corrective action” after
authorities there inspected its retail outlets.  “That area gets more regulatory scrutiny and bad press,”
Steve Michaels, a money manager at First Western Capital
Management, which oversees $1.5 billion of assets, said by
telephone from Los Angeles. “There are industries where there’s
worry about ethics as well as regulatory pressure. I don’t know
exactly why it failed there.”  The Berwyn, Pennsylvania-based company cited “market
conditions” for pulling the sale and cash tender offer for the
2016 notes, according to  statement.   Canadian Review  The company’s 10.375 percent debt due December 2016 dropped
81 cents on the dollar to $104.50 per $1,000 face value at 3:41
p.m. in  New York  trading, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
The securities yield 8.66 percent.  The shares fell 74 cents to $12.41 in Nasdaq trading. DFC
has dropped 33 percent this year.  The only region to post revenue gains in the fiscal period
ending Sept. 30 was the company’s  second-biggest market , Canada,
where the regulatory regime has been unchanged since a 2007
overhaul. Ontario, Canada’s most populous province, said in
September it would review the maximum borrowing fee and the use
of mobile applications to sell loans, and explore new ways to
monitor the market.  Payday loans are most often taken out by low-income people
willing to pay high interest rates to avoid falling behind on
their bills or to cover emergency expenses, according to studies
commissioned by the  Canadian government  and the Canadian Payday
Loan Association.  Standard & Poor’s lowered DFC’s rating to B from B+ Nov.
15, citing increased U.K. regulation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net ;
Cecile Gutscher in Toronto at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  