-- Payrolls Rose in 34 U.S. States in October, Led by Florida
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-11-22T15:22:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/payrolls-rose-in-34-u-s-states-in-october-led-by-florida-1-.html
Payrolls increased in 34 U.S. states
in October and the  unemployment rate  fell in 28, a sign labor
market progress is picking up across much of the country.  Florida led the nation with a 44,600 gain in employment
last month, followed by  California  with 39,800 more jobs, Labor
Department figures showed today in Washington.  The gains came even as federal government agencies
partially shut down in the first half of the month, leading to
the furloughing of about 800,000 workers at one point and biting
into consumer and business confidence. Bigger gains in
employment could help boost sentiment and household spending,
which accounts for about 70 percent of the economy, ahead of the
 holiday shopping season .  “The job market held up better than many people
anticipated in October,”  Ryan Sweet , senior economist at
Moody’s Analytics Inc. in West Chester,  Pennsylvania , said
before the report. “It seems like the underlying trend in the
job market is turning.”  Preliminary local and area unemployment statistics for
September were not released on schedule because of the
government shutdown that lasted Oct. 1 to Oct. 16, according to
the Bureau of Labor Statistics  webpage . The final data were
released today alongside October’s preliminary figures.  In September, payrolls increased in 26 states and the
unemployment rate declined in 33.  Jobs Gains  North Carolina  showed the third-biggest gain in employment
last month with a 22,200 increase in payrolls.  Missouri and South Carolina showed the biggest declines in
unemployment in October, with the jobless rate in each falling
by 0.4 percentage point. Over the past year, the rate dropped
the most in  Florida , which showed a 1.5 point decrease.  Nevada  was the state with the highest jobless rate in the
country in October, at 9.3 percent. Rhode Island was second,
with a rate of 9.2 percent. North Dakota had the lowest
unemployment in the nation, at 2.7 percent.  States showing the biggest declines in employment last
month included  Kentucky , where payrolls dropped by 12,600, and
Washington, with a decrease of 8,100.  The economy added 204,000 workers in October, topping the
most optimistic forecast in a Bloomberg survey, nationwide
figures showed on Nov. 8. The U.S. unemployment rate was 7.3
percent after dropping to an almost five-year low of 7.2 percent
in September.  Two Surveys  State and local employment data are derived independently
from the national statistics, which are typically released on
the first Friday of every month, though the government shutdown
delayed the release of September and October reports. The state
figures are subject to larger sampling errors because they come
from smaller surveys, thus making the national figures more
reliable, according to the government’s Bureau of Labor
Statistics.  Labor market strength has implications for the  Federal
Reserve ’s asset-buying program.  In an interview on Bloomberg Television this week, St.
Louis Federal Reserve President  James Bullard , a voter on Fed
policy this year who has backed the central bank’s $85 billion
in monthly bond purchases, said continued job gains could
increase the chances that policy makers will decide to taper at
their December meeting.  “It’s definitely on the table, but it’s going to depend on
the data,” Bullard said. “A strong jobs report, I think, would
increase the probability some for a December taper.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  