-- Perez Goes Tropical With $131 Million Art Oasis in Miami
-- B y   J a m e s   S .   R u s s e l l
-- 2013-11-22T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/perez-goes-tropical-with-131-million-art-oasis-in-miami.html
Shaggy tubes of tropical plants
dangle from the roof of the Perez Art Museum Miami.  The broad overhanging roof seems to float above turquoise
 Biscayne Bay  in a corner of downtown’s Museum Park, creating a
sheltering porch framing vistas of the shipping port and the
city’s skyline.  The Swiss architecture firm  Herzog & de Meuron  went
tropical to design an alluring home for a museum long stifled by
a bad building in an unfortunate location. The Perez now has a
shot at establishing itself as a major destination.  When the $131-million new museum building opens on Dec. 4,
visitors will feel the way it vibrates with the energy of this
urban cultural crossroads.  The opening is timed to seduce the hordes lured to the  Art
Basel Miami Beach  showcase. (The Swiss home of the art fair and
the architect is coincidental.)  The museum opened in the downtown Miami-Dade Cultural
Center, a 1983 Spanish-style barn amateurishly concocted by
 Philip Johnson . It attracted derelicts and repelled almost
everyone else.  While a $100-million  bond issue  for the new buildings was
approved in 2004, past public-building debacles and the brutal
crash of the local economy emboldened skeptics. A couple of the
city’s prominent private collectors called for its cancelation.  In the meantime, the Art Basel Miami fair had inspired a
year-round gallery and studio scene in nearby  Wynwood , the
Design District, and now downtown.  With cost cutting that retained the building’s most
important features, construction began in 2010.  Budget Endowment  The museum says it is on budget, and has raised $76 million
privately to fund the balance of construction and enlarge a
minuscule endowment toward an ultimate goal of $220 million.  That includes a $40 million gift of cash and art by Jorge
M. Perez, a local real-estate developer, who thus got his name
on the building (annoying those, including board members, who
disagreed with naming a largely publicly financed building for a
private donor).  The overhang, resting atop tall skinny columns, forms a
trellis of thin concrete beams layered with overlapping wood
rafters. It sheds dappled sunlight on an 80,000 square foot
(7,432 square meters) raised terrace.  It is both majestic and welcoming -- a neat trick.  Planting beds and trees add an understory to the hanging
plants (installed by the guru of planted walls, Patrick Blanc).  City Oasis  The terrace can be programmed with sculptures, dance, or
talk. It’s also an oasis scaled to the city that possesses few
places for public enjoyment. Too bad the museum has no street
presence, since it is tucked behind a science museum that’s
under construction.  Rows of colorful ship models suspended from the ceiling by
Guyana-born British artist  Hew Locke  greet visitors in the
lobby. It will resonate with many Miamians who remember the 1980
exodus of Cuban refugees to  Florida  on dangerously overcrowded
boats.  Stairs along the wide oak terraces of an auditorium become
the chief means up to second-floor galleries. Thick, sound-absorbing curtains theatrically cordon off one large or two
small areas of the stair for programs. Removable bench seating
is improbably upholstered in cork, which feels like hide.  Working with curators, the Herzog & de Meuron team, led by
partner Christine Binswanger, developed a complex hierarchy of
galleries some of which float like islands in a sea of informal
display areas.  Long Vistas  The arrangement invites a wandering itinerary where I found
myself slipping imperceptibly from one gallery into another.
Long vistas open unexpectedly to windowed views of plants, bay,
and city.  A suite of generous galleries permits a thematic display of
the museum’s collection, which has a strong focus on Latin
American and local artists.  Other gallery suites open with traveling exhibitions on Ai Weiwei and Caribbean art. Special glass, shades, and the deep
sheltering porch allow full-height bands of glass or monumental
windows to light many of these spaces.  Otherwise you get clinically even light delivered by strips
of fluorescent tubes -- a style preferred in  Europe  -- though
spotlights can also be used.  Single-subject Focus galleries highlight a collection or
work of one artist, such as the luscious modernist paintings
from pre-Castro Cuba by  Amelia Pelaez . Project galleries display
commissioned works, like  Monika Sosnowska’s  bent-wire
construction that clings spiderlike to the ceiling of a tall
room.  The diversity of display styles suits a young institution
that lacks deep holdings of major figures. Instead the museum
layout convenes a conversation among local artists and global
ones. That’s just perfect for Miami, the restless nexus of the
Americas and Europe.  The Perez Art Museum Miami is at 1103 Biscayne Boulevard,
Miami, FL 33132. Information:  http://www.pamm.org/   (James S. Russell writes on architecture for  Bloomberg
News . He is the author of “The Agile City.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in  New York  at 
 jamesrussell@earthlink.net .  http://www.jamessrussell.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 