-- Philippine Peso Weakens to Two-Month Low on Fed, Growth Concern
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2013-11-22T08:23:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/philippine-peso-weakens-to-two-month-low-on-fed-growth-concern.html
The Philippine peso fell for a
fourth day, touching the lowest level in more than two months on
speculation the U.S. will scale back stimulus that’s boosted
 emerging markets .  Government bonds  weakened.  Minutes of the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s Oct. 29-30
meeting released this week showed U.S. policy makers said asset
purchases may be reduced in the “coming months” as the world’s
largest economy improves. There’s also concern that the
Philippine Supreme Court’s decision this week to strip lawmakers
of their discretionary power to allocate funds for
infrastructure and development projects may curb growth,
according to the Bank of the Philippine Islands.  “The markets are mainly reacting to a possible tapering,”
said Alan Cayetano, the Manila-based head of foreign exchange
trading at the nation’s largest lender by market value. “To a
certain extent, the Supreme Court decision has growth
implications.”  The peso fell 0.3 percent today and 0.5 percent this week
to close at 43.865 per dollar in Manila, its weakest since Sept.
13, according to Tullett Prebon Plc. One-month implied
volatility, a measure of expected moves in the  exchange rate 
used to price options, was little changed at 5.97 percent.  The yield on the 8 percent sovereign debt due July 2031
rose three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 4.33
percent, the highest level since Nov. 13, according to Tradition
Financial Services.  Discretionary Budgets  The court also barred President  Benigno Aquino  from using
his social fund to finance priority infrastructure projects,
according to the Nov. 19 decision. Aquino pledged to remove
discretionary budgets in August after thousands of people turned
to social media and organized anti-corruption protests.  Overseas remittances, which typically rise during the
fourth quarter and may increase further as relatives of Typhoon
Haiyan victims send aid, will offset the impact of tapering
concerns, said Ricky Cebrero, head of treasury at  Philippine
National Bank .  The peso will probably end the year at 43 per dollar,
Cebrero said, weaker than his earlier forecast of 42.50.  Haiyan killed more than 4,000 people in the Philippines
when it hit on Nov. 8 and damaged at least 12 billion pesos
($274 million) of farm output and structures, according to the
government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino in  Manila  at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  