-- Pimco Sees $3.7 Trillion Reason for Adding Yuan: China Credit
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g   a n d   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2013-11-22T04:14:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/pimco-sees-3-7-trillion-reason-for-adding-yuan-china-credit.html
The  yuan  ranks in the top three on
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s emerging-market investment
radar, partly because of a $3.66 trillion currency pile that
China’s central bank this week described as excessive.  Saudi Arabia, China and Russia ranked above 43 other
developing nations when given equal consideration to reserves,
short-term debt-to-economy ratios and current-account surpluses,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Chief Executive Officer
Mohamed El-Erian outlined the Pimco filters at an Oct. 10
conference in Washington. The yuan has gained 2.3 percent
against the dollar this year, beating the pegged Saudi riyal and
a 7.6 percent slump in the Russian ruble.  Pimco,  State Street Global Advisors  and Aberdeen Asset
Management Plc are among companies favoring China, after
scanning the globe for markets least at risk to a tapering of
 Federal Reserve  stimulus. An acceleration in China’s shift in
its economic growth model away from investment and exports is
also encouraging investment. The nation’s central bank said
increases in foreign-exchange  holdings  no long benefit the
country, adding to signs that policy makers will rein in dollar
purchases that limit yuan appreciation.  “Reaction to Fed policy is certainly the critical driver
of asset prices in the near term, but it’s not the only driver
over a longer period of time,” Ramin Toloui, Singapore-based
head of  emerging markets  at Pimco, said in a Nov. 14 interview.
“The leadership has articulated the principles and priorities,
so the focus will now be on the implementation and timing. These
are critical to finding a growth model that evolves away and
weans off the dependency on investment and credit.”  Toloui, who oversees $100 billion of assets, didn’t reply
to a Bloomberg e-mail yesterday seeking comment on El-Erian’s
criteria.  Foreign Investors  Foreign investors boosted their ownership of Chinese
 government bonds  for an eighth straight month in October to a
record, according to data compiled by Bank of America Corp.
Their holdings rose 8.9 percent from September to an
unprecedented 109.6 billion yuan ($18 billion), or 1.4 percent
of tradeable securities. China’s 10-year sovereign notes yielded
4.67 percent on Nov. 18, or  200 basis points  more than
Treasuries, the widest gap since October 2011.  President  Xi Jinping , after a meeting of the Communist
Party leadership last week, reiterated a goal to make the yuan
fully  convertible , as part of the biggest set of economic
reforms in China since the 1990s. The central bank will
“basically” end daily foreign-exchange intervention and
broaden the yuan’s trading band, People’s Bank of China Governor
 Zhou Xiaochuan  wrote in a book after the party plenum.  Yuan Advance  The yuan, which rose 0.01 percent to 6.0923 per dollar in
Shanghai today, touched 6.0802 on Oct. 25, the strongest level
since the government unified the official and market exchange
rates at the end of 1993.  China’s economy  grew 7.8 percent in the three months
through September, after a two-quarter slowdown, helping shield
the yuan from emerging-market volatility stoked by speculation
on when the Fed will eventually trim its bond purchases. One-month implied volatility in the onshore yuan, a measure of
expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options, was
1.53 percent today, compared with 11.48 percent for India’s
rupee and 14.38 percent for Indonesia’s rupiah.  Right Direction  “The yuan is a low-volatility currency and we’re in a
high-volatility environment,” said  Kenneth Akintewe , a
Singapore-based  money manager  at Aberdeen, which managed $324.6
billion globally as of Sept. 30. “The steps are in the right
direction and while progress will be gradual, they have probably
moved quicker than people expected a few years ago.”  The Chinese currency will appreciate as much as 4 percent
next year, Akintewe said in a Nov. 19 interview. Median
forecasts in surveys conducted by Bloomberg have the yuan rising
0.7 percent by June, the fourth-best among 22 emerging
currencies, while Goldman Sachs Group Inc. on Nov. 21 upgraded
its 2014 forecast to 6.05 per dollar from 6.15.  State Street bought yuan-denominated government bonds
maturing in August 2016, October 2020, May 2023 and August 2023,
according to October filings. Aberdeen purchased June 2017
notes, a September statement shows, while funds managed by BNP
Paribas SA added July 2014 securities, based on July releases.
Investors are treating China, South Korea and Taiwan like
developed markets and these places could be immune should there
be another stumble in emerging markets,  Simon Derrick , London-based chief currency strategist at Bank of  New York  Mellon
Corp., said in a Bloomberg TV interview yesterday.  Currency Management  “We expect the yuan to continue its gradual
appreciation,” said Gerard Teo, head of strategy and currency
in Singapore at Fullerton Fund Management Co., which manages
S$12 billion ($9.6 billion). “We see this as a medium-term
positive for the currency” while the timeline or appreciation
bias in China’s currency management remain to be seen, he said
in a Nov. 20 e-mail interview.  Efforts to rein in shadow banking, or unregulated lending,
and the debt burden incurred by local-government financing
vehicles have led to cash squeezes that helped drive up
borrowing costs in June and October, hurting bond performance.  Investors in China’s local-currency government debt have
lost  2.6 percent  this year, a JPMorgan Chase & Co. Index shows.
In  Hong Kong , yuan-based Dim Sum bonds have produced monthly
gains for U.S.-based investors since June, according to the HSBC
Offshore  Renminbi  Bond Index.  FX Reserves  China’s foreign-exchange reserves surged $166 billion in
the third quarter to a record, suggesting money poured into the
nation’s assets even as developing nations from Brazil to India
saw an exit of capital because of concern the Federal Reserve
will taper stimulus. “It’s no longer in China’s favor to
accumulate foreign-exchange reserves,”  Yi Gang , a deputy
governor at the PBOC, said in a Nov. 20 speech at  Tsinghua
University .  Quotas under the Qualified Domestic Institutional Investor
and Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor programs will be
expanded and then scrapped, PBOC Governor Zhou said in a
guidebook explaining reforms outlined following the Communist
Party plenum. The central bank will start a trial program,
called QDII2, that will allow individuals to invest overseas, Yi
said.  China approved 5.3 billion yuan in quotas last month for
companies investing offshore yuan in onshore markets, State
Administration of Foreign Exchange data show. The total so far
was 139.6 billion yuan for 47 institutions as of end-October.  “China’s new leadership has sent a clear message about
what they want to achieve and the market reaction so far
reflects optimism,” said  Raymond Tang , chief investment officer
in  Kuala Lumpur  at CIMB-Principal Asset Management Bhd., which
manages about $14 billion. “This should underpin foreign
inflows into China, as people are beginning to reduce their
underweights in regional portfolios.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net ;
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net ;
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  