-- Pioneer Sees Rising Volatility in Low-Grade Debt on Tapering
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2013-11-22T07:56:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/pioneer-sees-rising-volatility-in-low-grade-debt-on-tapering-1-.html
Pioneer Investments, which manages
the equivalent of $227 billion, expects volatility to rise in
lower-grade corporate bonds once the Federal Reserve starts to
slow monetary stimulus that’s propped up asset prices worldwide.  The fund manager’s concern comes after an index measuring
returns on global high-yielding debt, including securities
issued by Dell Inc. and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.,
climbed to a record this week, according to data compiled by
Bank of America Merrill Lynch. A separate gauge of emerging-market sovereign debt has dropped 3.8 percent from a record high
in May, the month when Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said the
central bank could start to slow stimulus.  Benchmark 10-year Treasury  yields  have almost doubled in
the past six months as policy makers flagged the possibility the
U.S. central bank will reduce its $85 billion a month in
purchases of government and mortgage debt. Even so, market
volatility has remained near the lowest level since before the
global financial crisis erupted in 2008.  “Emerging-market local bonds lost quite a lot this summer,
but high yields in the U.S. haven’t lost much,” Tanguy Le Saout, the Dublin-based head of European fixed income at Pioneer
Investments, said in a phone interview yesterday. “Maybe high
yields could have a rocky road next year” as the Fed starts to
taper, he said.  Merrill Lynch’s Market Risk index, which measures future
price swings implied by options for global stocks, rates,
currencies and commodities, was negative 0.94 this week. It hit
negative 1.06 in January, the lowest since June 2007. Levels
below zero indicate less-than-usual stress in the markets.  Junk Bonds  Junk-rated notes returned 6 percent this year, compared
with a 0.1 percent loss for investment-grade debt, Bank of
America global indexes show.  Le Saout said Pioneer bought  Japan ’s inflation-linked bonds
last month. The government sold 300 billion yen ($3 billion) of
securities on Oct. 8 for the first time in five years.  The  yield gap  between nominal debt and similar-maturity
inflation notes signals a 0.98 percent annual increase in
consumer prices over 10 years, according to the breakeven rate.
The Bank of Japan aims to accelerate inflation to 2 percent by
2015 from 0.7 percent in September.  “We are betting on re-pricing of higher expectation for
inflation in Japan,” said Le Saout, declining to disclose how
much inflation debt Pioneer bought. “It was quite cheap.”  The price of Japan’s linkers collapsed to a record in
December 2008 as the global financial turmoil deepened  deflation 
in the world’s third-largest economy. The securities have since
recovered as the finance ministry bought them. Inflation bonds
issued last month guarantee the principal upon maturity in
contrast to their predecessors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net  