-- Public Opinion of Obamacare Hits Low on Website Outages
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-11-22T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/public-opinion-of-obamacare-hits-low-on-website-outages.html
Public support for the U.S. health-care overhaul fell to its lowest level in a  Kaiser Family
Foundation  survey after the Oct. 1 debut of government-run
insurance marketplaces greeted consumers with breakdowns on 
websites, higher prices and potentially broken promises.  About 33 percent of Americans surveyed in the past week
said they had a favorable opinion of the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act from 38 percent a month earlier, the lowest
level since the law was signed in March 2010, the Menlo Park,
California-based nonprofit research group, said today.  The troubled debut of the exchanges that are a core part of
President  Barack Obama ’s health-care overhaul prevented many
people from completing applications for medical coverage. That
shifted public opinion and reinvigorated Republican opponents
who have since held more than six congressional hearings to
highlight the law’s flaws.  “In the long term really what’s going to drive the polls,
what’s going to drive the public judgment, is how well the law
works and whether people like the coverage,” Drew Altman, the
foundation’s chief executive officer, said in a telephone
interview.  While 106,185 people enrolled in plans through the
government exchanges last month, almost 1 million abandoned the
application process after encountering website errors, garbled
data and long waiting times. Obama is now banking on a surge of
enrollees near deadlines in December and March to meet
projections for 7 million sign-ups in the first year.  November Deadline  The online exchanges, where people can shop for private
health insurance with the help of government subsidies, is the
core of the Affordable Care Act’s promise of extending medical
coverage to most of the nation’s 48 million uninsured. Getting
the federal exchange fixed soon is necessary because most
Americans are required to have health insurance by March 31 or
pay a fine of as much as 1 percent of their income.  Obama set a Nov. 30 deadline for the site to be repaired,
allowing what his administration calls “the vast majority” of
customers to enroll.  The Kaiser survey showed that 49 percent of Americans
surveyed this month had an unfavorable opinion of the law from
44 percent in October. The results mirror other surveys,
including a Nov. 14 Gallup poll that  found  40 percent of
Americans support the law.  Widening Gap  The 16 percentage-point gap between support and opposition
in the Kaiser survey is the largest the foundation has reported
since October 2011, in the thick of the Republican presidential
primary campaign. The gap was six percentage points in the
foundation’s October 2013 poll.  “Uninsured Americans, some of whom have been shut out of
the market for years, value health insurance and want to find
quality, affordable health-care choices for themselves and their
families,”  Jessica Santillo , a White House spokeswoman, said in
an e-mail. “This poll shows that Americans are more aware of
the new health insurance choices under the law, and the
uninsured are just as committed to enrolling as they were before
the marketplaces opened.”  Republicans, who were unanimous in their opposition to the
law when it passed in 2010 through a Congress controlled by
Democrats, have sought to turn the troubled rollout into
political advantage. In addition to hearings, they have released
documents showing administration officials knew of flaws in the
main insurance exchange website before it opened Oct. 1.  Policy Cancellations  Obama is trying to resolve the political thicket that arose
after insurers began canceling policies in the individual market
and telling customers that new plans complying with the health
law would cost more. The decision clashed with the president’s
repeated promise that people who liked their health coverage
would be able to keep it. Obama on Nov. 14 offered a compromise
allowing insurers to extend substandard policies in force in
2013 for as long as a year.  The Affordable Care Act mandated an end to discrimination
against people with pre-existing health conditions and required
that all policies next year meet minimum coverage rules in
return for an obligation that Americans obtain insurance.  Health insurers that want to keep offering the substandard
plans next year are being instructed to inform customers that
the substandard plans “will NOT provide all the rights and
protections of the health-care law.” The Department of Health
and Human Services, also said yesterday that insurers must
inform people they “have new options” through marketplaces and
may be eligible for tax credits.  States’ Responses  At least 12 states have said they will enact Obama’s
transitional policy for health plans that don’t meet the new
standards, according to America’s Health Insurance Plans, a
 Washington  lobby group for the industry. Four other states
allowed extensions before Obama’s policy.  Washington,  Minnesota , New York,  Vermont ,  Massachusetts ,
Rhode Island and  California  have said they won’t allow
extensions, according to AHIP.  In a positive development for Obama, 42 percent of
Americans in the Kaiser survey said they had heard “a lot” or
“some” about the health insurance exchanges, about twice the
percentage familiar with the marketplaces in September. About 58
percent of uninsured people that Kaiser polled said they would
obtain health insurance next year.  Republicans plan to continue congressional hearings next
week. Representative Darrell Issa, a California Republican who
is chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform
Committee, announced field hearings on the law in North
Carolina,  Georgia ,  Arizona  and  Texas  to be held through Dec. 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  