-- Tradeweb’s Bank Owners Said to Consider New Bond-Trading System
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2013-11-22T21:49:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/tradeweb-s-bank-owners-said-to-consider-new-bond-trading-system.html
Tradeweb Markets LLC is negotiating
with some of its bank owners to boost their collective stake by
$100 million to lay the groundwork for a new U.S. credit-trading
system, according to five people familiar with the matter.  The bank group includes  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and  Citigroup Inc. (C) , according to the people, who
asked to not be identified because the talks are private. The
amount of the stake increase hasn’t been finalized, the people
said. Tradeweb is working with other firms and the size of the
investment may grow, one of the people said.  New regulations and declining profits have spurred the
banks that facilitate transactions to hold fewer debt
securities, making it harder for money managers to find the
bonds they want to buy or sell. Investors and banks have held a
series of meetings during the past year to try to address the
situation. The world’s biggest dealers  cut  their bond inventory
by 76 percent from the peak in 2007 through March 2013.  “Dealers need to be willing to commit enough capital to
make the markets liquid, and they haven’t been willing to do
that since 2008,” said Kevin McPartland, head of market
structure and research at Greenwich Associates in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut .  Representatives of New York-based Tradeweb, JPMorgan,
Goldman Sachs and Citigroup declined to comment.  Reuters, Banks  Tradeweb , a bond- and derivatives-trading network, is
majority-owned by  Thomson Reuters  Corp., with the rest split
among Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan, Morgan Stanley, Citigroup, Bank
of America Inc., Credit Suisse Group AG, Deutsche Bank AG, UBS
AG, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and Barclays Plc.  It doesn’t currently offer trading in U.S. corporate bonds,
according to the asset types listed on its  website .  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of  Bloomberg News ,
competes with Tradeweb and Thomson Reuters in facilitating bond
and swap trades between investors and banks, and in providing
financial data and news to investors.  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s largest asset manager, created
an internal electronic bond-trading system in 2012. After
failing to attract enough customers, it decided to route trades
through  MarketAxess Holdings Inc. (MKTX) ’s computerized system instead.  As part of that agreement, BlackRock and MarketAxess
developed a pricing system that upset some dealers who trade
with their customers on MarketAxess, said three of the people
familiar with the matter. That explains part of the rationale
for the dealers to create a competitor via Tradeweb, the people
said.  MarketAxess, BlackRock  The change is an alert that notifies any investor on the
MarketAxess or BlackRock system if an incoming order matches a
bond they want to buy or sell, according to a person familiar
with how it works. That could allow two asset managers to trade
directly with one another, preventing dealers from participating
in and profiting from the transaction.  MarketAxess continues “to believe that the credit markets
need new trading solutions, and we are working closely with our
dealer and investor clients to develop innovative technology
that helps increase market liquidity and reduce fragmentation,”
according to a statement from the company.  Bloomberg LP also competes with MarketAxess in facilitating
bond and swap trades between banks and their customers.  Lauren Post, a BlackRock spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Dow Jones earlier today reported on the negotiations to
increase the Tradeweb bank stakes.  Stricter  capital requirements  from the  Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision  have made holding bonds more expensive for
dealers, prompting them to hold less bond inventory, thus making
them less able to facilitate transactions. They have also
curtailed their trading activity out of concern that the Dodd-Frank Act adds regulatory risk due to how holding bonds is
treated under the proposed Volcker Rule.  Lower Profit  Trading bonds has also become less profitable. Citigroup
said last month that its fixed-income trading revenue excluding
an accounting adjustment dropped to $2.78 billion, a decline of
26 percent from a year earlier. Also last month, JPMorgan, the
biggest  U.S. bank , reported an 8 percent decline in bond-trading
revenue, to $3.44 billion.  BlueMountain Capital Management LLC, Pacific Investment
Management Co. and Fidelity Investments are among money managers
that are in discussions to form a consortium that would seek
ways to make it easier to buy and sell corporate bonds in the
U.S.  The firms, along with AllianceBernstein Holding LP and
Wellington Management Co., have been reviewing ways to
invigorate the market, six people involved in the talks said
last month. The goal is to propose a set of market structure
changes to the dealer banks they rely on for trading, the people
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  