-- RBC Urges SEC to Test Overhaul of Exchange Business Model
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n
-- 2013-11-22T13:46:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/rbc-urges-sec-to-test-overhaul-of-exchange-business-model.html
The practice among stock exchanges
of paying rebates to some traders puts long-term investors at a
disadvantage and the Securities and Exchange Commission should
consider eliminating the system,  RBC Capital Markets  said.  The SEC should consider an alternative to the “maker-taker” business model and require trading venues to offer
rebate-free pricing structures, Richard Steiner, the New York-based global equities liaison to regulatory and government
affairs at RBC Capital Markets, wrote in a comment letter to the
SEC. RBC Capital Markets is a unit of the  Royal Bank of Canada ,
which has its headquarters in Toronto.  “Investors have experienced, and increasingly grown
concerned with, decreasing transparency of markets, including
the reliability of quotes and viability of apparent liquidity,”
the letter said. “We, and our clients, are concerned that the
market may be increasingly disadvantaging long-term investors
who are interested in fundamental value.”  The proliferation of trading venues over the past decade
has spurred competition to the extent that fairness and
transparency has been compromised, Steiner said in the letter.
The maker-taker model creates a pricing structure that is hard
to decipher for many traders, and it artificially narrows and
widens displayed spreads between bids to buy stocks and offers
to sell, the letter said.  Brokerage Conflict  The current system creates a conflict of interest for
brokers because it causes them to route orders in a way that may
be most cost-effective for them, not their clients, Steiner said
in the letter. Some professional traders find it profitable to
trade in order to make money from exchange rebates, he said.  “Such trading contributes to volume but accomplishes
little in the way of true price discovery or best execution,”
the letter said. “In other words, it does not help the
individual investor.”  Steiner urged the SEC to study the issue and collect data
by requiring a limited number of stocks to trade on a rebate-free basis for a limited period of time.  RBC’s effort may find support from others in the industry.
IntercontinentalExchange Inc. Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey
Sprecher , whose company bought NYSE Euronext, has indicated he
is not a fan of the system.  Industry Support  “I don’t like maker-taker,” Sprecher said at an Atlanta
event on Oct. 21. “You shouldn’t pay people to trade,” he
added. Market makers “need to be able to earn a living,” he
also said. He didn’t elaborate on alternatives.  Greg Tusar, former head of electronic trading at Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and now at KCG Holdings Inc., said last year
that getting rid of maker-taker pricing would enable brokers to
compare bids and offers across venues more fairly. It would also
end the need for a market operator to own multiple exchanges
providing different pricing to attract orders from specific
types of investors, he said.  Outlawing pricing that permits rebates to market makers
would cause the bid-ask spread to widen, forcing investors to
pay more when they buy,  Daniel Coleman , CEO of Getco LLC, said
in written testimony to Congress last year. While transaction
credits help market makers provide better prices, Getco doesn’t
use “trading strategies that are designed solely to earn a
rebate,” he wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael P. Regan in  New York  at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  