-- ReFood Sees Sales Quadrupling as It Mops Up Savoy Hotel’s Scraps
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2013-11-22T16:12:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/refood-sees-sales-quadrupling-as-it-mops-up-savoy-hotel-s-scraps.html
ReFood GmbH, a company that makes
energy out of food scraps from London’s legendary Savoy Hotel
Ltd., expects revenue to quadruple as it brings projects online.  ReFood may see revenue increase to about 50 million pounds
($81 million) in the next 18 months from 12 million pounds last
year, said Philip Simpson, commercial director. The unit of
 Germany ’s Saria Bio-Industries GmbH operates a 2.8-megawatt
waste-to-power plant in Doncaster, northern  England , and plans
to bring two further plants online next year.  “There are a lot of hidden costs in waste disposal,”
Simpson said by phone. “Food waste can be recycled cheaper than
going to landfill, and I think once you show people that it’s
safe and secure -- and the killer punch is it’s cheaper -- why
wouldn’t someone do it?”  Supermarkets and businesses in the U.K. are being pushed to
send food waste to anaerobic digestion facilities such as
ReFood’s by a  landfill tax  that makes it increasingly expensive
to bury waste. It was introduced in April 2012 at 64 pounds a
metric ton and rose to 72 pounds this April.  “We’re encouraging the government to start looking at food
waste as a resource and not something to stick in a hole in the
ground,” Simpson said. England needs to consider banning food
waste from landfill, he said. The devolved  governments  of
 Northern Ireland ,  Scotland  and  Wales  have introduced or are
consulting on such measures, he said.  ReFood is building a waste-to-power plant in the country’s
north and it won planning consent for a plant in London earlier
this month. With the Doncaster plant, they represent an
investment of about 60 million pounds, Simpson said. The company
wants eventually to have a network of waste-to-energy facilities
across the U.K.  The Savoy, where French chef Auguste Escoffier once ran the
kitchens and  Winston Churchill  frequently lunched, is saving as
much as 200 pounds a week by turning its  food scraps  into
energy, according to ReFood.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louise Downing in  London  at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  