-- Repsol May Spend $10 Billion on Assets After Stake Sale
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   T i m o t h y   C o u l t e r
-- 2013-11-22T08:09:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/repsol-may-spend-10-billion-on-assets-after-stake-sale-1-.html
Repsol SA (REP)  is willing to spend as
much as $10 billion acquiring assets in Canada, the U.S. or
northern Europe as it plans to sell its $7 billion stake in  Gas
Natural SDG SA (GAS) , Chairman  Antonio Brufau  said.  Spain’s largest oil producer is considering buying
unconventional oil and gas assets in North America with the
eventual proceeds, and it may make two or three smaller
acquisitions rather than one large one, he said in an interview.
Brufau said he’s not interested in  oil sands .  Repsol, whose debt is rated one step above junk at the
three main rating companies, could borrow to top up the proceeds
from its 30 percent Gas Natural stake or buy a company that has
debt with an enterprise value of as much as $10 billion, Brufau
said.  “The target has to add value in terms of portfolio, risk,
profitability and technology,” Brufau, 65, said yesterday in
his office at the company’s headquarters in  Madrid . “If we sell
Gas Natural, it’s to grow.”  The company, a producer in Angola, Libya and Bolivia, is
seeking to rebalance in favor of developed countries with legal
stability, after its Argentine unit YPF was confiscated in 2012,
Brufau said. Shares in Repsol, which faces public criticism from
 Petroleos Mexicanos , one of its biggest shareholders, have
recovered their losses since the Argentine government took YPF
without compensation.  Share Gain  The stock fell 3 cents to 18.495 euros a share in Madrid as
of 9:03 a.m. It has gained 20 percent this year, beating the 4.2
percent gain of the 22-member  Bloomberg Industries Integrated
Oils index .  The company has said it’s considering disposing of the
stake in Gas Natural, Spain’s largest gas utility, because
Repsol’s sale of liquefied natural gas assets to  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc (RDSA)  this year removed any strategic reason to own those
shares. Repsol won’t sell to return cash to shareholders, Brufau
said.  Brufau reiterated that the company, which has axed YPF from
its name while not writing down its value on its books, is
willing to reach a settlement with the government of President
Cristina Fernandez. Still, Repsol’s investors would not accept a
deal that meant reinvesting in Argentina, he said.  “We’re ready to discuss fair and real value,” he said.
“It’s better to have cash today than a long term pledge.”  Repsol in June rejected an Argentine offer of compensation
for its seized unit, including stakes in the Vaca Muerta shale
deposit, and has filed a claim against Argentina at the
arbitration arm of the  World Bank .  The producer has also filed lawsuits against companies
including  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  after they agreed to invest in YPF
projects Repsol says were illegally confiscated.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
Timothy Coulter in Madrid at 
 tcoulter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  