-- Rio Chairman Sees Many Positive Signals in China Plan
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2013-11-22T02:16:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/rio-chairman-sees-many-positive-signals-in-china-plan-correct-.html
(Corrects to remove word from headline)  Rio Tinto Group (RIO) , the world’s second-biggest mining company, said proposed economic reforms unveiled
this month by China contained many positive signals,
underpinning continued demand for raw materials.  The Communist Party’s third plenum document “contained
many positive signals, including the pledge to further open up
border areas in the interior and support land reform,” said Jan du Plessis, chairman of London-based Rio, according to notes for
a speech today in Sydney. “My long-term view of the Chinese
economy remains positive and we expect to see continued, robust
growth in demand for commodities.”  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest mining company,
yesterday said it was “confident” about China’s announced
reforms as the nation transitions to a consumption-led economy
from export and capital-led growth. The government of  China , Rio
and BHP’s biggest customer, this month pledged to ease the one-child policy and boost private investment, giving more influence
to market forces and loosening government controls.  “Beijing is steering its economy through a major
transformation –- towards growth eventually being led more by
domestic consumption than exports and investment,” said du
Plessis. “The reform process in China will gain momentum.”  Rio shares rose 0.7 percent to A$65.25 at 1:11 p.m. in
Sydney trading.  China pledged to allow more private investment in state-controlled industries, loosen its one-child policy and expand
farmers’ land rights, according to a Communist Party statement
published by Xinhua News Agency on Nov. 15. The document,
covering 60 measures, follows a communique issued Nov. 12 after
a four-day party conclave in Beijing that omitted details for
reforming the world’s second-largest economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  