-- Ropes & Gray Cleared on Bias Claim: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-11-22T05:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/ropes-gray-cleared-on-bias-claim-business-of-law.html
A Boston federal jury ruled against
a former Ropes & Gray LLP associate who alleged the law firm
retaliated when he complained of racial discrimination after
failing to make partner, the National Law Journal reported.  John H. Ray III, a Harvard-trained attorney who is black,
joined the Boston office of Ropes & Gray as a fifth-year
litigation associate in 2005. After initial positive performance
reviews, his evaluations declined with time and in 2008 he was
told he wouldn’t make partner.  Ropes & Gray has what’s known as an “up or out” policy --
associates who won’t become partners must leave the firm after a
severance period. Ray asked for extensions of the six months
offered. The firm refused in 2009, before ultimately suggesting
a two-month extension if Ray agreed to release the firm from any
claims, according to court papers.  Ray rejected the offer and sent one partner a draft
discrimination complaint he planned to file with the Equal
Employment Opportunity unless the firm offered either an
indefinite severance period or a payment of $8.5 million,
according to court papers. The firm rejected the offer and told
Ray he couldn’t return to the office.  Ray filed his claim with the EEOC, which in 2011 rejected
the discrimination claim while saying there was “probable cause
to believe that Ropes had retaliated against Ray for filing the
charge,” according to court papers.  Mediation was unsuccessful and Ray sent the EEOC’s finding
to members of Congress, the president of the NAACP and Martha Minow, the dean of Harvard Law School, as well as others,
according to court records.  The jury determined Nov. 20 that Ray hadn’t filed his claim
with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in good faith
or contacted the dean in good faith, according to the NLJ.  In an Aug. 16 ruling dismissing a discrimination claim, a
federal judge found that Ray had “not come forward with
plausible evidence” that the firm’s decision was “tinged with
or influenced by racial animus.” The court, however, said that
a jury should decide whether Ropes & Gray’s dissemination of the
EEOC determination, which contained “severely damaging
information about Ray,” was retaliatory.  The court also said that a jury could find that a partner’s
refusal to provide a recommendation following Ray’s EEOC
complaint could be found to be “in retaliation for filing an
EEOC charge.”  Ray’s lawyer, Latif Doman of  Washington ’s Doman Davis LLP,
told Bloomberg News at the time of the August ruling that, “We
were surprised by the decision dismissing the discrimination
claim and we will probably appeal, but we can’t until after the
trial on retaliation slated for November.”  Doman couldn’t immediately be reached for comment on the
verdict yesterday.  Ropes & Gray was represented by Michael Keating of Foley
Hoag LLP, according to the newspaper.  “We are gratified at the decisions in this case, which
affirm our steadfast commitment to fairness and equality,” the
firm said in an e-mailed statement. “We are proud of our
policies and practices we have implemented to support the
advancement of talented people regardless of age, gender, race,
color, national origin, religion, disability, sexual orientation
or gender identity.”  The case is Ray v. Ropes & Gray, 11-cv-11370, U.S. District
Court, District of  Massachusetts  (Boston).  Firm News  Taft Stettinius Merges in Move to Expand to Chicago  Taft Stettinius & Hollister LLP is merging with Shefsky &
Froelich to create a 400-lawyer law firm with offices in eight
cities in the U.S. Midwest.  Taft, which will retain its name after the merger, has
seven U.S. offices, including four in  Ohio . The others are in
Indianapolis; Covington,  Kentucky ; and Phoenix. The combination
with Shefsky & Froelich gives the firm a Chicago presence.  “Our mission is to be preeminent in our region, and to
achieve that, a major presence in Chicago is essential,” Thomas
Terp, Taft chairman and managing partner, said in a statement.
“As business becomes more global and regional, having such a
respected firm with talented attorneys on the ground in  Chicago 
will benefit our clients in all of our offices.”  Shefsky & Froelich, which has 70 lawyers, has experience in
complex commercial transactions and specializes in litigation
and gaming.  “With this merger, we will strengthen our core practices,
but we also will be able to provide many services and cover
areas of expertise that we just couldn’t before,” Cezar M. Froelich, of Shefsky & Froelich, said in a statement. “Best of
all, we will not change our client service culture and we will
maintain our direct relationships with them.”  Taft traces its roots to 1885. In 1923, Robert A. Taft and
Charles P. Taft II, sons of former President William Howard Taft, joined the firm.  Moves  Davis Polk Adds Former U.S. Attorney Neil MacBride  Neil MacBride , former U.S. attorney for the Eastern
District of  Virginia , is joining Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP as a
partner in the Washington office in the white-collar criminal
defense and government investigations groups.  MacBride was a U.S. attorney from 2009 to 2013. Before
that, he was associate deputy attorney general at the Justice
Department in 2009. He worked as chief counsel and staff
director for then-Senator Joe Biden from 2001 to 2005 on the
Senate Judiciary Committee.  “His experience will be invaluable in offering the
critical and decisive advice in New York and D.C. that great
companies have always called upon us to provide,” Thomas J. Reid, Davis Polk’s managing partner, said in a statement.  While a U.S. attorney, MacBride handled cases involving
financial fraud, international corruption, copyright
infringement and trade secret theft, defense procurement fraud,
money laundering, terrorism and cybersecurity, the firm said.
Among them is the case against Kim Dotcom, who is accused of
copyright piracy for running the website Megaupload.  MacBride also handled matters involving the Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act, as well as securities and wire and fraud
statutes. Last year, his office announced that Tyco
International Ltd. agreed to pay more than $26 million to
resolve U.S. charges that it bribed officials of companies
including Saudi Aramco to win contracts.  Former government officials in Davis Polk’s Washington
office include ex-chairman of the Federal Trade Commission Jon Leibowitz, former State Department official John Reynolds III,
and former SEC Enforcement Director Linda Chatman Thomsen.  Davis Polk has about 900 lawyers at offices in New York,
Washington, Sao Paulo,  London , Paris,  Madrid , Hong Kong,
Beijing,  Tokyo  and Menlo Park,  California .  Motley Rice Hires New York Antitrust Lawyer for Expanded Office  Antitrust lawyer Michael M. Buchman is joining Motley Rice
LLC as a partner in New York, where the firm is expanding and
relocating its office to Midtown East from Chelsea.  Buchman, who was co-managing partner of the
antitrust/consumer protection practice at Pomerantz Haudek
Grossman & Gross LLP, joins along with an associate.  “With the downturn of the economy and changing landscape
of the financial world and corporate greed, we have
unfortunately seen the growing need for regulation in the form
of private actions, including antitrust, securities and consumer
fraud litigation,” Donald A. Migliori, managing member of the
New York City office, said in a statement.  Buchman is currently representing retailers in an antitrust
case over merchant swipe fees.  Motley Rice more than 70 lawyers at eight U.S. offices.  MoloLamken Hires Illinois AUSA DeVooght as Partner  U.S. litigation boutique MoloLamken LLP announced that
trial lawyer Andrew R. DeVooght joined the firm as a partner
from the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of
 Illinois .  DeVooght worked as an assistant U.S. attorney in the
office’s criminal division, where his cases involved investor
fraud, health-care fraud, criminal copyright infringement, and
theft of government program funds, the firm said.  Before joining the government, DeVooght was a partner with
Winston & Strawn LLP, where he handled complex civil litigation
and white-collar criminal defense.  “We are delighted to have Andy join us and expect he will
hit the ground running,” firm co-founder Steven Molo said in a
statement. “He is an experienced trial and appellate lawyer who
has handled matters in all the substantive areas in which we
practice.”  Molo and Jeffrey Lamken formed the firm in October 2009.
Its 21 lawyers are at three U.S. offices in New York, Washington
and Chicago.  News  JPMorgan Deal Offers Turning Point for Attorney General Holder  The Justice Department’s $13 billion mortgage securities
settlement with  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  is a record and also a
rarity -- Attorney General Eric Holder’s first big win against a
bank at the heart of 2008’s financial crisis.  For Holder, the part of the deal announced this week that
requires the bank to pay $9 billion to resolve allegations it
knowingly sold bad mortgage securities is a potential turning
point after a tenure studded with controversy.  Several more announcements are on the way to bring
financial institutions to account, Holder has said.  “You have to wait until we are finished with all the work
that we will do,” Holder said in an interview. “When we get to
that point you will see that we have taken the mandate that we
were given seriously, that we held people accountable, that we
held institutions accountable.”  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York
at   eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  