-- Ross Falls Most Since March as Retailers Cast Holiday Gloom
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2013-11-22T21:33:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/ross-falls-most-since-2008-as-retailers-cast-gloom-on-holiday.html
Ross Stores Inc. (ROST)  joined retailers
from  Gap Inc. (GPS)  to  Macy’s Inc. (M)  in forecasting a disappointing
holiday-shopping quarter, citing heavy discounting and
heightened competition.  Shares of Ross  slumped  5.7 percent, the biggest decline
since March 7, after the retailer of discount designer wear
lowered its fourth-quarter profit outlook -- a revision that
trailed analysts’ estimates.  Faced with wary shoppers and a shorter holiday season,
retailers are piling on deals as they jockey for market share
during the most important sales period of the year. With
shoppers expected to visit fewer stores this holiday, sales are
projected to advance 2.4 percent, the smallest increase since
2009, according to ShopperTrak, a Chicago-based researcher.  “We are up against our own challenging multiyear
comparisons and an upcoming holiday season that we believe will
be the most intensely competitive and promotional selling period
in recent years,” Ross Chief Executive Officer Michael Balmuth
said in a statement yesterday after the markets closed.  The trend is affecting retailers of all kinds. Gap, the
biggest specialty-apparel retailer, yesterday maintained an
annual profit forecast range signaling that the crucial holiday-season quarter may produce profit of 50 cents to 58 cents a
share, falling short of analysts’ estimates of 69 cents a share.
Macy’s and  Best Buy Co. (BBY)  have warned that profitability would
come under pressure in the fourth quarter as they add deals and
slash prices.  ‘Cautious Outlook’  Ross, which owns off-price apparel and home fashion chains,
said fourth-quarter profit will be as much as $1.01 a share,
reduced from a previous forecast of a maximum of $1.03 a share.
Analysts  projected  $1.08, on average.  The shares dropped to $75.67 at the close in New York. Gap
 tumbled  1.3 percent to $41.31.  Ross, based in Pleasanton,  California , said comparable-store sales would increase by as much as 2 percent in the
quarter, compared with a 5 percent increase last year.  “While we hope to do better, we believe it is prudent to
adopt a more cautious outlook for the fourth quarter,” Balmuth
said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in  New York  at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  