-- TrueCar Said to Consider IPO Next Year for Online Auto Retailer
-- B y   L e s l i e   P i c k e r
-- 2013-11-23T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/truecar-said-to-consider-ipo-next-year-for-online-auto-retailer.html
TrueCar Inc. , an online auto-shopping service, is considering selling shares in an initial
public offering in the first half of 2014, two people with
knowledge of the matter said.  The company is working with Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  on the IPO, said the people, who asked not
to be identified because the process is private. TrueCar, based
in  Santa Monica , California, may seek a market value of as much
as $1.5 billion in the share sale, one person said.  Auto sales are on pace for their best year since 2007, and
shares of other auto dealers have reached record highs this
year.  Autonation Inc. (AN)  is up 24 percent in 2013, after touching a
record in September, while  Penske Automotive Group Inc. (PAG)  is up
nearly  42 percent  through yesterday.  TrueCar helps consumers buy cars with pricing information
from more than 6,000 dealerships. It was started in 2005 by
Scott Painter, who also founded CarsDirect.com Inc. and was an
early adviser to electric-car maker Tesla Motors Inc. The
company turned down an offer to be acquired for more than $1
billion, Painter, who is also chief executive of the company,
said in a Nov. 19 interview in Los Angeles.  The company currently has 325 employees and is profitable,
Painter said. He declined to name the potential buyer or provide
the company’s expected revenue this year.  He also declined to comment on the possibility of an IPO,
as did spokesmen for TrueCar, Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan.  TrueCar raised $200 million in September 2011 to fund
acquisitions, Painter said at the time. TrueCar’s shareholders
include Andell Holdings LLC, GSV Capital Corp., GRP Partners and
USAA Capital Corp, according to the  company’s website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Picker in  New York  at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  