-- Russia Ordered to Release Greenpeace Activists, Seized Ship
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k   a n d   N i c h o l a s   B r a u t l e c h t
-- 2013-11-22T15:57:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/russia-ordered-to-release-greenpeace-activists-seized-ship-1-.html
Russia must release a Greenpeace
ship and crew members once the Netherlands pays surety of 3.6
million euros ($4.9 million), a UN court ruled today.  The Netherlands  won  most of its arguments at the
 International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea  to free the Dutch-flagged ice-breaker Arctic Sunrise and its crew while an
arbitration court can hear the dispute between the two nations.  The activists and the vessel were detained in September
amid a protest against arctic drilling near the Russian coast.
Of the 30 activists originally detained, 23 have already been
released from prison in  St. Petersburg  on bail, according to
Greenpeace. Today’s ruling was supported by 19 of the 21 judges
on the panel.  “It is a statement that we need to reflect on, we need to
study it further and determine how to proceed with it,”
Liesbeth Lijnzaad, the Netherlands’ representative at the
tribunal, told reporters after the ruling. “The decision of the
court is binding on both parties.”  Russia will study the UN court ruling and determine its
response, the Foreign Ministry in Moscow said in a statement
posted on its website.  The country didn’t take part in the proceedings, saying
while it was open to an amicable solution, it would boycott this
case since this court, which includes a Russian judge, has no
jurisdiction over the arrest of the activists that was an
internal law enforcement action. No Russian delegation appeared
at the Nov. 6 hearing in the suit.  ‘Objective Manner’  “We sincerely hope that the tribunal approached the matter
in an objective manner,” the Foreign Ministry said.  If the Dutch government has “a financial problem to come
up with the money quickly, we as Greenpeace will call on our
supporters around the world to quickly raise that money,” Kumi
Naidoo, Greenpeace International Executive Director, told
reporters after the ruling.  The Dutch started an arbitration case against  Russia  at the
tribunal in early October under the United Nations Convention on
the Law of the Sea, a treaty governing the international
maritime regime. Additionally, the Netherlands on Oct. 21  asked 
the judges for the interim order at issue in today’s ruling.  The case is: ITLOS, Case No. 22.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Brautlecht in Hamburg at 
 nbrautlecht@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  