-- S&P May Raise Romania to Investment Grade Next Year
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2013-11-22T09:12:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/s-p-may-raise-romania-to-investment-grade-next-year.html
Standard & Poor’s  increased the
outlook of Romania’s junk credit rating to positive from stable
and said it may upgrade it in the second half of next year
depending on fiscal rigor and sales of state assets.  The Black Sea country’s long-term government bond rating
was maintained at BB+, one level below investment grade and on
par with Croatia and  Indonesia , S&P said today in a statement.  Romania has struggled to shed its junk rating for five
years, embarking on one of the European Union’s toughest
austerity programs in 2010 by cutting state wages 25 percent and
raising value-added tax by 5 percentage points. The government
secured a third international bailout loan this year and has
narrowed the budget gap to an estimated 2.5 percent of gross
domestic product this year, from 7.2 percent in 2009.  “We could raise the ratings if the planned program of
budgetary consolidation, public finance reform, and public
enterprise restructuring is implemented in line with our
expectations, while keeping external imbalances and financial
sector stability in check,” S&P analysts Marko Mrsnik and  Frank
Gill , said in the statement.  The yield on Romania’s 2020 euro-denominated bonds fell
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 4.09 percent at
11:08 a.m. in Bucharest, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The cost of insuring its debt against non-payment for
five years with credit-default swaps was up 2 basis points to
180. The leu was little changed at 4.453 per euro.  Elections Approach  Bond-market history indicates the utility of ratings may be
limited. Almost half the time, government bond yields fall when
a rating action by S&P or Moody’s suggests they should climb,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg on 314 upgrades,
downgrades and outlook changes going back as far as the 1970s.  S&P said there was at least a one-in-three chance it could
raise the rating by the second half of 2014. It may cut its
outlook back to stable if the  budget deficit  widens ahead of
next year’s presidential and European parliamentary elections or
if the government falls behind on plans to sell state companies.  “The ratings could also come under downward pressure if
Romania’s external imbalances re-emerge or if stability in its
financial sector weakens,” S&P said.  Romania’s government plans to further narrow the budget gap
to a planned 2.2 percent of GDP next year and sell stakes in
state-owned energy companies Hidroelectrica SA, Electrica SA and
Oltenia SA, as part of its commitments to the  International
Monetary Fund  and the EU in its bailout package.  Romania’s macroeconomic reality not only justifies the
outlook improvement but also a rating upgrade, Budget Minister
Liviu Voinea said in a phone interview today.  Asset Sales  “The government remains committed to continuing reforms,
even in an electoral year,” Voinea said. “ Romania  will
continue to borrow cheaper and cheaper from the market and S&P’s
decision is only a confirmation of that direction.”  The cabinet has sold minority stakes in natural gas company
Romgaz SA, nuclear-power operator Nuclearelectrica SA and
natural-gas grid operator Transgaz SA this year.  “We believe there is a risk that the Romanian government
could deviate from its budgetary and structural reform plans in
the run-up to elections in 2014,” Mrsnik said. “We recognize,
however, that Romania benefits from buffers that should help to
maintain investor confidence and keep borrowing costs down.”  The country’s economy expanded 4.1 percent in the third
quarter, the fastest pace in the past two years, boosted by a
bumper harvest and rising exports.  “We believe Romania’s GDP growth will gradually strengthen
over 2013-2016, helped by the continued rebalancing of its
economy toward external demand,” Mrsnik said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  