-- Sanofi Rheumatoid Arthritis Drug Reduces Pain, Damage in Study
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2013-11-22T06:03:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/sanofi-rheumatoid-arthritis-drug-reduces-pain-damage-in-study.html
Sanofi (SAN)  and  Regeneron Pharmaceuticals
Inc. (REGN) ’s experimental rheumatoid arthritis drug eased symptoms and
damage caused by the disease in a clinical trial, advancing its
prospects in a market of new anti-inflammatory therapies led by
 Roche Holding AG. (ROG)   In a study of 1,200 patients for whom the standard
treatment methotrexate was not sufficient, sarilumab plus
methotrexate eased pain and stiffness twice as much as those who
got methotrexate alone, and slowed joint destruction 90 percent
more, the two companies said in a joint statement today.  The trial is one of two that Paris-based Sanofi plans to
use to seek regulatory approval for sarilumab. The drug may
generate sales of 579 million euros ($780 million) by 2020,
according to the average of four analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. It would compete with Roche’s Actemra and other
experimental treatments in development by AbbVie Inc.,  Johnson &
Johnson (JNJ)  and Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.  The study evaluated three groups of patients who received,
in combination with methotrexate, either a 200 milligram or 150
milligram dose of sarilumab, or placebo. Among those in the
study receiving the highest dose of sarilumab, 14 percent
withdrew from the trial because of side effects, compared with 5
percent of those on methotrexate alone. Infections were also
more common among those on Sanofi’s drug.  The results were from the last of three stages of human
tests generally required for regulatory approval.  Joint Inflammation  Rheumatoid arthritis causes inflammation of the joints,
often in the hands and feet. It is thought to be caused by
problems with the immune system, according to the U.S. Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta. About 1.5 million
people in the U.S. have it, according to the Arthritis
Foundation.  Patients typically start treatment with methotrexate, a
cheaply available generic drug. If methotrexate doesn’t work or
becomes less effective, doctors can add a therapy such as
AbbVie’s best-selling drug Humira or Pfizer Inc.’s Enbrel.
There’s no cure for the chronic disease.  Sanofi gained sarilumab as part of an alliance with the
Tarrytown, New York-based biotechnology company Regeneron, in
which it owns a 17 percent stake.  The drug targets a messenger protein called interleukin-6,
or IL-6, that is over-produced by people with rheumatoid
arthritis, contributing to joint damage and inflammation.  Basel, Switzerland-based Roche’s Actemra generated $898
million in sales last year. AbbVie is developing a drug that
targets IL-6, called ALX-0061, which it licensed from Ghent,
Belgium-based Ablynx NV in September in a deal worth as much as
$840 million. Johnson & Johnson’s drug is called sirukumab and
Bristol-Myers’ is called clazakizumab.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  