-- Sanusi Bracing for Shocks to Nigeria’s Fiscal Spending
-- B y   D a n i e l   M a g n o w s k i
-- 2013-11-22T14:04:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/sanusi-bracing-for-shocks-to-nigeria-s-fiscal-spending.html
Nigeria ’s  central bank  Governor
Lamido Sanusi said he is bracing for public spending “shocks”
as Africa’s most populous nation prepares to vote in 2015,
reducing the chance of lower  interest rates .  “Toward the elections there will be a supplementary
budget,” Sanusi said in an interview on Bloomberg TV’s African
Business Weekly program, due to be broadcast tomorrow at 5 p.m.
local time in Abuja, the capital. “I don’t think I have seen an
election cycle in any country in which the government has not
spent money.”  Sanusi held the bank’s key interest rate at a record high
of 12 percent on Nov. 19 and said policy makers may raise
borrowing costs if  government spending  surges in a pre-election
year. While President Goodluck Jonathan has pledged to keep the
 budget deficit  under control, oil revenue has slumped this year
and lawmakers are pushing to boost expenditure, adding to
pressure on inflation.  “We are bracing ourselves for the possibility of shocks
from the fiscal side, and we will have to respond on monetary
side,” Sanusi said in the interview, which was conducted in the
capital, Abuja. “We have always made it very clear that if we
have to tighten then we will tighten.”  Jonathan, 56, who sought medical attention yesterday during
a trip to  London , postponed his 2014 budget speech twice this
month, delaying it on Nov. 19 after lawmakers failed to agree on
the benchmark oil price in the spending plan. Oil accounts for
about 80 percent of government revenue in Nigeria, Africa’s
biggest crude producer.  ‘Quite Frightening’  Sanusi, who is due to leave his position when his term ends
in June, raised concerns about high recurrent spending in the
budget, such as salaries.  “There’s a lot of money in there that’s recurrent
expenditure and overheads, and when you go down and start
looking at the fine lines and the numbers, they’re quite
frightening,” Sanusi said.  “And there’s a significant
reduction in  capital spending , which is a problem.”  The  Central Bank of Nigeria  has kept its benchmark rate
unchanged since October 2011 to help stabilize the naira and
keep inflation under control. Consumer prices rose at the
slowest pace in more than five years in October, gaining 7.8
percent from a year ago, while the naira has gained 1.1 percent
against the dollar since the beginning of September to trade at
158.65 as of 2:08 p.m. in Lagos, the commercial capital.  The 2015 election will be the stiffest test yet for
Jonathan’s ruling People’s  Democratic Party , which has been in
power since military rule ended in Nigeria in 1999. Four main
opposition parties joined forces this year to fight Jonathan,
who has not yet said whether he will stand for re-election. The
PDP has also been hit by an internal crisis amid defections by
party members, including former Vice President  Atiku Abubakar .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Magnowski in Abuja at 
 dmagnowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  