-- Scott Walker Says Voters Frustrated With Washington (Transcript)
-- B y
-- 2013-11-22T21:22:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/scott-walker-says-voters-frustrated-with-washington-transcript-.html
Wisconsin ’s Republican governor,
 Scott Walker , said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend, that
Republicans and Democrats alike are “frustrated with the
problems they see in the nation’s capital,” and declined to
rule out mounting a 2016 presidential campaign.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT: Joining me now is Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker,
the author of “Unintimidated,” his new book, which we’ll talk
about in just a minute. But let me start with 2016, Governor,
because you said the other day the party has to nominate someone
from outside  Washington . They might make an exception for  Paul
Ryan .  I spoke with  Ted Cruz  yesterday, and not surprisingly, he
takes issue with that. He said, it doesn’t matter where you’re
from, it has to be someone who is a staunch, bona fide
conservative, that matters, not geography. Do you disagree with
Senator Cruz?  SCOTT WALKER: Well, I was asked what the ideal candidate
would be, and I still stand by that. To me, the ideal candidate
is someone who’s got firm roots from outside of Washington. I
think people across the board, Republican, Democrat alike, are
frustrated with the problems they see in our nation’s capital.  HUNT: But it’d be a problem if it were a senator?  WALKER: Well, I mean, to me, I think any number of the
senators we’ve talked about, as well as members of Congress,
like Paul, are good, decent people. I just think in the end -
there’s a reason why before 2008 the last member of Congress we
elected was  John F. Kennedy , and it was some 40 years before
that before they elected a member for that, because they want
chief executives. They want people with executive experience.  HUNT: He also said that the nominee ought to be someone who
stands up to the establishment.  WALKER: I agree with that. Anybody who’s the defender of
the status quo - I think one of the interesting things in the
last few years is there’s a growing number of people who have a
pent-up frustration over the size and scope, particularly in the
federal government, and Obamacare, which is kind of the thing
that blew the lid off, but I think that’s been building for
years. And people in this country, again, across the political
spectrum, are tired of the nonsense in Washington.  HUNT: Governor, is  Chris Christie  a bona fide conservative?  WALKER: I think so on most issues. There might be an
exception here or there, but that’s true of a lot of people
across this country. But you look at a lot of key issues,  tax
reform , you look at pension reform. My goodness, he passed
pension reform in a state where the Democrats control both
chambers. He’s spoken out in a lot of issues, just like I do. I
kid Chris, who’s a friend of mine, the difference between Chris
and I is just that I have a little bit of a Midwestern filter,
but he’s pretty forceful on conservative issues.  HUNT: you’re focusing on re-election in 2014, but everyone
knows that there’s talk about you two years later, a popular
Midwestern governor, successful in a blue state, a tax-cutter,
very competent, Washington outsider,  Tim Pawlenty  two years.
That model doesn’t work.  WALKER: Well - and, again, I’m not auditioning for anything
here -  HUNT: I know.  WALKER: I’m up for governor, and it’ll be my third election
in four years, so I worked pretty hard to be governor. I plan on
doing that for some time. But I think in general, it doesn’t
have to be the Midwest. I think the overall argument I’m making
is someone who’s not just been a chief executive, but someone
who’s been a proven reformer, who’s taken on the big challenges.
I think there are many examples, all across America, the 30
Republican governors today - in many cases, I just get a lot of
the attention because of the hundred-or-so thousand protesters
that were in around my Capitol a few years ago.  HUNT: You think Scott Walker would be a pretty good
candidate if he decided to run?  WALKER: Well, I think I’ve been a pretty good executive at
both the county level and the state level right now, and that’s
what I’m focused on now.  HUNT: Let’s talk about your book for a second. Two things
jump out, when - in glancing at the book - I’m not going to tell
you I’ve absorbed everything, and I will - and that is, No. 1,
that you believe in an activist conservative government agenda,
not a passive. And, secondly, you wrap yourself around the
mantle of  Ronald Reagan .  WALKER: Yeah, I do, because I think what has been lost -and
oftentimes President Reagan’s invoked by the conservative
movement - but where you lose sight, as I mentioned in this
book, about how he was really very aspirational for all
Americans, that he had a message about lifting people out of
poverty, about lifting people out of despair that we don’t hear
enough of, particularly here in our nation’s capital, but we
don’t hear enough from national candidates.  And I think that’s really important. He had an eternal
optimism in the American people.  HUNT: Governor, like most Republicans, you are a critic of
Obamacare. Yet as this Politico piece noted yesterday, Walker
strikes his own path on Obamacare. Your plan in Wisconsin relies
on encouraging residents to join the Obamacare insurance
exchange, where they can get federal subsidies. So the exchanges
are a pretty good idea?  WALKER: Well, I think there’s a better free-market
alternative, but it’s the law.  HUNT: Right.  WALKER: And so for someone who fought it from day one, who
fought it in my campaign, who empowered by attorney general to
join the federal lawsuit, who didn’t take the Medicaid
expansion, who didn’t do a state exchange, who continues to make
an argument there’s a better free-market alternative, and will
far into the future, it’s the law.  In our state,  Kaiser Family Foundation  said, of all the
states out there, particularly those that didn’t take the
Medicaid expansion, we have no coverage gap, because we cover
everybody living in poverty, we reduce the number of uninsured,
but we also reduce the number of people who are on Medicaid
without exposing our taxpayers to future risk.  HUNT: Let me ask you something - a question on the federal
level. If there were a deal among - in these budget negotiations
to replace the federal sequester, which almost nobody likes,
with longer-term entitlement changes, some means-testing, cost-of-living adjustments, along with some base-broadening revenue
increases, not rate increases, would that concept be attractive
to you?  WALKER: Well, I’d have to look at what the details were.  HUNT: Yeah, of course.  WALKER: But in the end, this is something I raised in
February when all the governors, not just Republican governors,
all the governors got together at the White House with the
president. At that time, he was speaking out very clearly
against the sequester. And I got up and was very respectful, but
said with all respect to the president that his frustration - he
essentially at that time was advocating for higher taxes and
some unspecified cuts in federal spending. And I said, with all
due respect, Mr. President, almost all the governors that were
in that room at that time in the White House faced a deficit two
years ago. Nearly all of us had to sit down with our cabinets
and come up with a viable alternative.  WALKER: I quoted today on my Facebook site part of
President Reagan’s - or, excuse me, President Kennedy’s 1963
 State of the Union  address, where he talked about the benefits
of cutting taxes, what that would mean to an economy. And as we
saw, he didn’t enact it, but President Johnson did.  HUNT: But we’re talking about some revenue increases.  WALKER: Yeah, but my point with that, though, is he talked
about reducing taxes. What they eventually enacted in ‘64, much
like what we enacted in ‘81 under Reagan’s economic recovery
act, we not only cut taxes, but eventually raised revenues.  HUNT: Right, but came back and increased taxes a couple
years later, too.  WALKER: Well, and I think part of that was a mistake in
what they did in that regard. But I think the Laffer curve shows
not only across the country, but we’ve shown in state after
state, our revenues are up in Wisconsin, even though I’ve cut
taxes $1.5 billion.  HUNT:  You have said the focus ought to be on economic
issues and you shouldn’t emphasize the social issues that are
divisive. You also said that things like gay rights, anti-gay
rights is a turnoff to young voters. The Senate, with some
Republican support, passed a bill banning discrimination against
gays. Should the House do the same?  WALKER: Well, again, I haven’t looked at that particular
bill. I can tell you, in Wisconsin, we’ve had anti-discriminatory laws that are very similar to that for more than
30 years and they’ve worked quite effectively.  HUNT: So you -  WALKER: We’re also a state that has a constitutional
amendment that defines marriage between one man and one woman.  HUNT: So if similar to the Wisconsin bill, the House bill
should be something that -  WALKER: Yeah, if it - I mean, we’ve not had problems with
that.  HUNT: OK.  WALKER: We’ve had no problems - or I should say, limited
problems with that. At the same time, we still have a
constitutional amendment that defines marriage. There’s a
healthy balance there.  HUNT: Governor, let me ask you one foreign policy question.
There are two quite different Republican schools of thought on
foreign policy, the John McCain-Bob Corker America needs to
exercising its influence around the globe to prevent bad things,
and the Rand Paul that says that we are extending ourselves too
much, we need to pull back and focus more at home. Which of
those two camps are you most comfortable?  WALKER: I think, like most Americans, I’m somewhere in
between the two, in the sense I think there are legitimate
reasons both for national and homeland security for us to be
actively engaged, to have certain programs that work to weed out
so that we never have a 9/11 again.  At the same time, and as a commander-in-chief of the
state’s National Guard, I often think that when I see our men
and women deployed overseas that how important it is to protect
that homeland and national security. By the same token, I’m
often reminded as they depart how important it is to remember
what they’re fighting for, and that’s for the freedoms and
liberties we have, which include civil liberties, so that we
don’t go too far, and that’s why I think there’s a healthy
balance between the two.  HUNT: Governor Scott Walker, as always, it was terrific to
see you today. The book is “Unintimidated.”  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP. 