-- Serco Misses Prison Contract as U.K. Government Withdraws Tender
-- B y   N a t a s h a   D o f f
-- 2013-11-22T13:09:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/serco-misses-prison-contract-as-u-k-government-withdraws-tender.html
Serco Group Plc (SRP)  missed a contract
worth as much as 30 million pounds ($48.6 million) a year to run
three U.K. prisons after the Ministry of Justice canceled the
tender amid a criminal probe into the company’s billing.  The awarding of the contract to run the Hatfield, Moorland
and Lindholme prisons in South Yorkshire was delayed in July
after the ministry announced it was investigating Serco over
claims the services provider overcharged the U.K. government for
tagging criminals. The Hook, England-based company was the
leading bidder for the contract.  “The impact of the delay and the uncertainty this has
created mean that for operational reasons we cannot postpone the
outcome of the competition process any further,” Justice
Minister Chris Grayling said in an e-mailed statement. “The
competition for these prisons will cease” and all three prisons
will be managed by HM Prison Service, he said.  Serco has been restructuring its U.K. business and
replacing top executives in a bid to restore its reputation in
the country that generated more than half of its 2012 revenue.
Former Chief Executive Officer Christopher Hyman resigned last
month and Jeremy Stafford, the group’s chief executive for the
U.K. and  Europe , announced he was stepping down yesterday.  Serco agreed to an audit of all its government contracts
after irregularities were found over payments to it and peer  G4S
Plc (GFS)  for tagging prisoners on release programs and defendants
freed on bail. The Ministry of Justice in August gave Serco
three months to undertake “corporate renewal,” and threatened
to exclude the company from any future government work if the
changes are unsatisfactory.  Eroded Gain  The announcement eroded a gain of as much as 3.5 percent in
Serco’s share price today after analysts at  Credit Suisse Group
AG (CSGN)  and Oriel Securities Ltd raised their recommendations for the
company. Shares were trading up 0.5 percent at 440.6 pence at 1
p.m. in London, valuing the company at 2.2 billion pounds.  Hector Forsythe, an analyst at Oriel Securities, said Serco
had made “significant change to address the corporate renewal
requirement.” The investment bank raised its recommendation for
Serco to hold from reduce with a target price of 439 pence.  “The rational response by the government should be to
ensure that Serco is a viable supplier to maximize competition
in bidding,” Forsythe said.  Serco spokesman Marcus De Ville said in an e-mail the
company estimated the value of the Yorkshire prisons contract at
20 million pounds to 30 million pounds annually.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natasha Doff in  London  at 
 ndoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  