-- Shhh, Republicans May Like Filibuster Reform
-- B y   C a s s   R .   S u n s t e i n
-- 2013-11-22T19:41:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/shhh-republicans-may-like-filibuster-reform.html
Here’s a little secret. Some
Republican senators, and perhaps many of them, are going to end
up being thankful for the “ nuclear option ,” by which the
Senate voted to eliminate the use of the filibuster for
presidential nominees within the executive branch and the lower
courts.  Of course, they will like that reform when the presidency
is in Republican hands. But there’s some chance that they’re
going to  like it  in the coming weeks and months as well.  To see why, suppose that the president has nominated John
Doe to be assistant secretary of something or other. Let’s
suppose that many Republican senators don’t much care about
Doe’s selection. They know that any assistant secretary is part
of a team, subject to the authority of the secretary and the
White House. They also know that once Doe is in the job, he will
almost certainly do fine, even if they can uncover a few warning
signs in his background.  But once the president has chosen Doe, some interest groups
might get  pretty riled up . Maybe something that Doe has said or
done will alarm the Tea Party, the National Rifle Association,
the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops, the  American Coalition
for Clean Coal Electricity  or the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. Or
maybe one of these groups won’t much care, but will nonetheless
find it in its interest to express alarm (noisily).  In recent years, any such uproar has put Republicans
senators in a tough bind. Recall that they have no problem with
Doe. But if they don’t put a hold on him, or at least join the
clamor and support a  filibuster , they are taking a risk.  Sending Signals  Their support for Doe, or even their silence, sends a
signal that they are traitors, asleep at the switch, cowards or
Republicans in Name Only. If they care about giving the right
signal, getting re-elected or even getting along with their
colleagues, they might well join a filibuster against Doe --
even though they think he’s fine.  Most senators, whether Republican or Democratic, hope to
make the world a better place. They know the best way to do that
is to enact good legislation or to block bad legislation, not to
have protracted and essentially symbolic fights over whether
John Doe should be assistant secretary of something.  If Doe is blocked, it is greatly irritating, and possibly
far worse, for the administration, but, in general,
filibustering nominees is hardly an effective way to move
national policy. Republican senators are entirely aware that if
they want to affect policy, their best strategy isn’t to cater
to interest groups that have gotten obsessed with John Doe, but
instead to take strong stands on the major issues of the day,
including fiscal reform, immigration, health care, foreign
policy and energy. (Democratic senators  were aware  of the same
point during the  George W. Bush  administration.)  The argument I am making is connected with a longstanding
theme in American political thought, which is that public
officials often gain from restrictions on their authority. If,
for example, the power of adjudication is taken away from the
chief executive, and given to impartial courts, the executive
will, in an important sense, benefit. He doesn’t have to devote
his limited time to adjudicating disputes. Nor does he have to
worry about the political heat that comes from making unpopular
decisions. The separation of powers itself has been justified
partly on this ground.  To be sure, this argument is subject to important
 qualifications . Insofar as the filibuster reform applies to
lower court nominees, it eliminates a meaningful check on
presidential selections (for better or for worse). And insofar
as the reform applies to cabinet heads, the minority party will
lose something important, which is the ability to block actual
or perceived extremists (or incompetents).  Extracting Concessions  The authority to filibuster presidential nominees has also
been used to extract concessions on substantive issues. Some
Republican senators (and their Democratic counterparts in the
future) will understandably  lament the loss  of that power. And
if Republican senators decide to respond to this week’s reform
through procedural tactics that delay nominees -- for example,
extended debates -- we might continue to see some of the same
fights that the change was meant to eliminate.  Let’s hope not. In a democratic society, the minority party
is entitled to both consideration and respect. The filibuster
has a  legitimate and important place . But in recent years, the
process has gotten out of hand. If Republican senators are freed
of unwelcome political pressures that required them to devote
time and attention to blocking John Doe rather than to engaging
the issues that really concern them, they might conclude the
filibuster reform wasn’t so bad after all. They might even start
to like it.  ( Cass R. Sunstein , the Robert Walmsley University professor
at Harvard Law School, is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is a
former administrator of the White House Office of Information
and Regulatory Affairs, the co-author of “Nudge” and author of
“Simpler: The Future of Government.”)  To contact the writer of this article:
 Cass R. Sunstein  at  csunstei@law.harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at  kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 