-- Sinopec Oil Pipeline Fire Kills 35 in China’s Qingdao
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a a s   a n d   A i b i n g   G u o
-- 2013-11-22T16:02:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/sinopec-oil-pipeline-fire-kills-35-in-china-s-qingdao.html
An explosion and fire yesterday at a
pipeline belonging to  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (386) ,  Asia ’s
largest refiner, killed at least 35 people and leaked oil into
the sea in the nation’s deadliest spillage since at least 2005.  The incident occurred at 10:30 a.m. local time on Friday at
Huangdao District in the eastern city of Qingdao when oil leaked
from the pipeline, which has been shut down, the official Xinhua
News Agency said, citing local authorities.  China Central
Television  reported the latest death toll.  “We are deeply sorry for what has happened in Qingdao and
express our sincere condolences to the victims and their
families,” Sinopec said on its website. “We will investigate
the cause of the accident with a responsible manner and keep the
public posted on our progress.”  Industrial accidents have become part of life in the
world’s second-largest economy. More than 27,700 people were
killed or went missing at workplaces in the first half of this
year, according to the State Administration of Work Safety. In
the rush to build infrastructure to serve  China ’s growing
cities, corners have been cut resulting in bridges collapsing
and a high profile crash of two high-speed trains in 2011.  “The Sinopec pipeline explosion will surely see a
prolonged investigation and a safety review with the short term
impact for the firm also dependent on how quickly the oil giant
cleans up the leak,” said  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst at VTB
Capital in London. “The ever growing refining capacity and oil
infrastructure in China had certainly seen a rising number of
incidents, and safety standards will be reviewed.”  Rescue Efforts  All efforts should be directed at searching for survivors,
treating the injured, controlling any combustible source and
closely supervising the surroundings, Premier  Li Keqiang  said in
a statement on the central government website. President Xi
Jinping gave similar instructions for rescue efforts, it said.
Sinopec President Li Chunguang was on site coordinating rescue
efforts and Chairman Fu Chengyu was on his way to Qingdao,
Sinopec’s official microblog said.  Qingdao Environmental Protection Bureau confirmed the leak
and is investigating the cause and volume of the spill, it said
on the bureau’s official micro-blog. The leak has spread across
3,000 square meters in the Jiaozhou Bay and the  Yellow Sea ,
according to the official micro-blog of the Qingdao Municipal
People’s Government Information Office.  Lv Dapeng, a Beijing-based spokesman for Sinopec, as China
Petroleum is known, didn’t answer two calls to his office
yesterday.  Decent Record  “Chinese refiners have a decent safety record, accidents
like these aren’t too frequent,” said Amrita Sen, chief oil
market strategist at Energy Aspects Ltd. in  London .  Sinopec has a “super-large” refining and petrochemical
 complex  at Qingdao in Shandong province, according to the
company’s  website . It has a crude distillation capacity of 10
million metric tons a year and produces more than 7 million tons
of gasoline, kerosene and diesel a year.  The fire occurred in Qingdao’s development zone, according
to the Xinhua report. The pipeline began leaking oil at about 3
a.m. and emergency crews were dispatched to conduct repairs when
the fire started.  Photos  on Xinhua’s website showed broken
chunks of sidewalk along a stretch of road, overturned cars and
rising smoke.  “Given current information, the result will probably be
reduced refinery runs, impacted imports and continued de-stocking of inventories,” said Sen. “Qingdao is a hugely
important Chinese oil port.”  Oil Cleanup  The Qingdao Environmental Protection Bureau said the city
is organizing the cleanup of oil. The leak wasn’t caused by a
terrorist attack, the bureau said.  Sinopec’s complex in Qingdao also produces liquefied
petroleum gas, polypropylene and styrene with a total output of
more than 2 million tons a year. Refined products are sold in
the north, northeast and southeastern coastal regions of China,
according to the website.  A fire at  PetroChina Co. (857) ’s Dalian oil complex killed two
people in June, Xinhua then reported. The blaze was a “serious
accident” and caused “severely negative impact” to the group,
according to a statement on the website of parent China National
Petroleum Corp.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Benjamin Haas in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhaas7@bloomberg.net ;
Aibing Guo in Hong Kong at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  