-- Soros Increases Holdings in Teva to Most Since 2010
-- B y   M a t t h e w   K a n t e r m a n
-- 2013-11-22T22:23:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/soros-increases-holding-in-teva-to-most-in-three-years.html
Soros Fund Management LLC, the
family office of billionaire  George Soros , increased its
holdings in  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  to the most
since 2010.  The firm, based in New York, raised its stake in Teva, the
worst-performing pharmaceutical company in the U.S. in the past
year, to 1.8 percent of its $7.75 billion U.S. stock portfolio
in the third quarter, according to a filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission on Nov. 14. This would make
it the largest allocation since the fourth quarter of 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Teva fell to a two-year low on Nov. 4 after a rift over the
company’s future with Chairman  Phillip Frost  led to the Oct. 30
resignation of Jeremy Levin, who was brought on board as chief
executive officer less than 18 months before. Concern its best-selling product, the multiple-sclerosis injection Copaxone, will
lose traction as it faces stronger competition is also weighing
on the shares.  “Surely it doesn’t hurt to have a large, well-known
investor such as Soros take a position,” Timothy Chiang, an
analyst at CRT Capital Group LLC, who has a buy rating on the
shares, said by phone from  Stamford ,  Connecticut , today.  American depositary receipts of Teva, the world’s largest
maker of generic drugs, gained 1.6 percent to $40.63 in New
York. The ADRs  have returned  6.7 percent, including dividends,
in the past 12 months, the worst performance among 31
pharmaceutical companies traded in New York with a market
capitalization of at least $20 billion.  Cheapest Stock  Teva, which trades at 8.2 times estimated earnings, is the
 cheapest  stock among the world’s largest pharmaceutical
companies. Sales of Copaxone fell in the third quarter to $1.05
billion, the lowest in a year, Teva said on Oct. 31.  Soros, who made $1 billion betting against the British
pound in 1992, also bought a new stake in  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  in the
third quarter to make the software maker its largest holding by
market value. With a net value of $22.9 billion, Soros is the
29th-richest person in the world, according to the Bloomberg
Billionaire Index.  The shares were purchased in the three months ended Sept.
30 as Teva fell 3.6 percent.  Susquehanna Financial Group LLLP raised its recommendation
on Teva to the equivalent of buy from a hold on Nov. 20.  “While a turnaround at Teva could take time, there is a
possibility of significant near-term upside from Copaxone,”
Andrew Finkelstein, a New York-based analyst at Susquehanna
wrote in the note.  Money managers who oversee more than $100 million in
equities must file a Form 13F within 45 days of each quarter’s
end to list their U.S.-traded stocks, options and convertible
bonds. The filings don’t show non-U.S. securities or how much
cash the firms hold.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Kanterman in  New York  at 
 mkanterman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  