-- South African Prostitute on Trial for Killing Diplomat
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-11-22T12:04:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/south-african-prostitute-on-trial-for-killing-diplomat.html
The trial of a South African
prostitute charged with murdering a U.S. diplomat, Christopher
‘Norm’ Bates, in January began this week in Johannesburg.  “The accused faces a murder charge,” Hurbetin Phindi
Louw, a regional manager for  South Africa ’s  National Prosecuting
Authority , said in an e-mailed response to questions about the
trial of Lorraine Mohapi. “The accused admits that she is a
prostitute.” She has pleaded self defense.  Bates was a U.S. consulate worker in Johannesburg. Mohapi
agreed to have sex with him for 200 rand ($20), the
Johannesburg-based Star newspaper reported yesterday, citing
trial proceedings.  “We’re following the court proceedings but we are not
involved,” said Jack Hillmeyer, a Pretoria-based spokesman for
the U.S. Embassy, in a phone interview yesterday.  He said he could only comment on policy, not the case.  “We’re prohibited from purchasing commercial sex anywhere
in the world, even in places where it is legal,” he said.
“Department employees who violate these prohibitions can be
subject to disciplinary action up to and including separation.”  Prostitution is illegal in South Africa.  Bates had been assigned as the information management
officer at the consulate in Johannesburg since 2010, Hillmeyer
said in a  Jan. 14 statement . He’d worked for the Department of
State for 11 years and had previously served at U.S. embassies
in  Senegal ,  Kenya , and  Lesotho .  Bates was discovered dead on Jan. 13 at his housing complex
in Illovo, an affluent area in the north of the city, with
Mohapi, according to testimony, the Star said. Mohapi said that
Bates had chased her with a baseball bat and she had stabbed him
in self defense, the Star reported. She was found holding the
alleged murder weapon, the newspaper said.  The NPA didn’t immediately respond to e-mails and phone
calls requesting contact details for Mohapi’s lawyers. The Law
Society of The Northern Provinces, which keeps details for
lawyers who operate in Johannesburg, wasn’t open today.  The trial is taking place at the South Gauteng High Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  