-- Spain Should Keep Bank Cash Dividend Limit in 2014, IMF Says
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2013-11-22T16:07:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/spain-should-keep-bank-cash-dividend-limit-in-2014-imf-says.html
Spanish  banks  should limit cash
dividends for another year and take advantage of a jump in  share 
 prices  to raise capital, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  The government should consider strengthening the power of
the Bank of Spain, which has recommended banks restrict cash
 dividends  this year, so it can force them to cap payouts, the
IMF said today in its fourth review of Spain’s progress in
meeting the terms of its European banking bailout.  It should also consider attaching conditions to its plan to
offer banks guarantees that will allow them to keep counting
some deferred tax assets as capital. Legislation could force
them to issue more  equity  or stop paying cash dividends for as
long as three years in return for the help, the Washington-based
IMF said.  Mounting losses at former savings banks including  Bankia (BKIA) 
group led Spain to seek 41.3 billion euros ($55.8 billion) in
European aid last year as the cost of cleaning up soured real
estate assets risked undermining  government   finances . While
Spain “remains on track” in meeting its bailout terms, bank
profits could remain under pressure as households and companies
 scale back borrowing  and the government continues to cut
spending, the IMF said.  Buoyant Markets  “To avoid exacerbating already-tight credit conditions,
supervisory actions to strengthen solvency and reduce risks
should prioritize measures that boost banks’ nominal capital,”
it said. “Such actions include encouraging banks to take
advantage of buoyant  equity  markets to increase share
issuance.”  Shares in  Banco Popular (POP)  Espanol SA, a Spanish lender forced
to sell shares last year after stress tests uncovered a capital
shortfall, have jumped almost 80 percent since the end of June.  The Bank of Spain has told banks to limit cash dividends to
25 percent of profits. Those guidelines were welcome and could
“usefully be extended” into 2014, the IMF said.  Banco Bilbao
Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) , Spain’s second-biggest bank, said last
month it would skip a cash  dividend  payment due in January to
comply with the regulator’s guidance.  “The recommendation to limit dividends for another year
doesn’t appear to send out a very positive message about what
the IMF thinks is the state of health of the Spanish financial
system,” Benjie Creelan-Sandford, a banking analyst at
Macquarie Bank Ltd. in  London , said in a phone interview.  No Windfall  Spain is in the process of determining how to change the
accounting treatment of about 59 billion euros of deferred tax
assets to soften the impact of new rules known as Basel III,
which will require banks to deduct them from capital over time.  While it’s a welcome step to amend the rules so that some
deferred tax assets become transferable claims on the
government, and therefore no longer deductible under Basel III,
the change “should not be provided as a windfall,” it said.
“For example, DTA legislation could be combined with
legislation requiring banks to either issue more equity or
refrain from cash dividends for a given period” such as three
years, the IMF said.  Some Spanish banks are already taking steps to raise
capital. Banco Sabadell SA, the fifth-biggest bank, raised 1.38
billion euros in September with a share sale to investors that
included the Colombian billionaire Jaime Gilinski.  Asset Sales  Lenders continue to face an “impaired” ability to
generate income from their core banking activity as lending
shrinks and asset  yields  diminish, the IMF said. “Much
uncertainty remains regarding the eventual extent of  credit
quality  deterioration, which is likely to continue for some
time,” it said.  Spanish banks need to keep selling assets to free up space
on their balance sheets for new lending to the areas of the
economy that are growing, the IMF said. Supervisors will have to
make sure that banks “adequately provision for loan losses so
that banks do not delay asset disposal simply to avoid
recognizing losses,” the report said.  European finance ministers said last week they supported
 Spain ’s decision not to request more bank aid after the program
ends in January. The IMF, which is monitoring Spain’s banking
program along with the European Union, will publish its fifth
and final progress report in early 2014 as the program ends on
Jan. 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  