-- Sternlicht Says Summers Is Wrong on Need for More Lending
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2013-11-22T17:35:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/sternlicht-says-summers-is-wrong-on-need-for-more-lending.html
Barry Sternlicht , the head of real
estate investment firm Starwood Capital Group LLC, said there is
an abundance of credit available, disputing a comment made by
former U.S. Treasury Secretary  Lawrence Summers  about banks
needing to do more lending to stimulate the economy.  “He is wrong,” Sternlicht said in a Bloomberg Television
interview with  Stephanie Ruhle  from the  Robin Hood Foundation ’s
investor conference in New York. “We have plenty of credit and
plenty of lending.”  Summers, in an interview yesterday, told Ruhle “the only
way” to get the economy back to normal is with “more
confidence, more borrowing and lending, and more spending,” and
that maintaining the flow of credit ought to be one of the
nation’s priorities. While homebuyers may have trouble getting
mortgages, the commercial real estate market doesn’t need
additional lending as it recovers, Sternlicht said.  “I am delighted that banks are not stepping up and doing a
lot of construction loans on buildings that do not need to be
built,” he said. “I am happy with the lending environment.”  Sternlicht, chief executive officer of Greenwich,
Connecticut-based Starwood, said he is “bullish” on commercial
real estate because of its attractive yields. Prices for U.S.
multifamily, retail, office and industrial buildings have
increased 59 percent from a 2009 low as investor demand rises,
according to the Moody’s/RCA Commercial Property Index.  Foreign capital is “pouring into the  United States ” in
search of long-term investments, said Sternlicht, who is
chairman of the Robin Hood Foundation. He said a German fund is
expecting a 6 percent return on a new building in Denver that
his company sold recently.  Realtors Report  The National Association of Realtors projects modest growth
in U.S. commercial leasing in the coming year as the job market
improves, according to a report today. The difficulty of
accessing loans is a hindrance to a faster recovery,  Lawrence Yun , the group’s chief economist, said in a statement.  Sternlicht, in the interview, said he may consider initial
public offerings of some of Starwood’s holdings.  “I think you might see our mall business go public, maybe
some of our hotels,” he said. “We own more than 100 hotels in
the U.S. and building a bunch. It’s a good time to be public.”  He said he is “rooting” for  Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD)  and  JC
Penney Co. (JCP) , department store chains that have lost out to
competing retailers in recent years. When asked if he wanted to
buy the companies, he said, “At the right price, sure, why not?
I think we could do something interesting with both of them.
They both have interesting opportunities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in  New York  at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  