-- Supreme Court Upholds Ontario Ban on Private-Label Drugs
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-11-22T21:19:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/supreme-court-upholds-ontario-ban-on-private-label-drugs.html
Canada ’s Supreme Court today upheld
a provincial court ruling allowing the Ontario government to
prohibit the sale of private-label generic drugs.  Katz Group Canada Inc., based in  Edmonton ,  Alberta  and
 Shoppers (SC)  Drug Mart Corp. had appealed the Ontario Court of
Appeal’s December 2011 ruling that allowed the government to
prevent pharmacies from controlling manufacturers that sell
generic drugs without actually making them.  Shoppers, Canada’s largest pharmaceutical chain, said in a
statement that while it respects the decision, “it is
disappointed with the outcome.”  Shares of Toronto-based Shoppers  fell  0.3 percent, to
C$58.92 at 4:01 p.m. trading in Toronto. Katz Group, owner of
the Rexall drug-store chain, is closely held.  The share of generic retail prescriptions in Canada was
63.2 percent last year, representing about 353 million
prescriptions, according to the Canadian Generic Pharmaceutical
 Association  industry group. Generic drug sales accounted for
24.4 percent, or C$5.39 billion ($5.11 billion), of the Canadian
prescription drug market, the industry group said.  Shoppers appealed the 2010 regulations to the Supreme Court
after the appeals court in Canada’s most populous province
restored the ban, reversing a lower court decision.  The Ontario Divisional Court in February 2011 had found the
prohibition interfered with the property rights of Shoppers Drug
Mart and Katz Group  The cases are Katz Group Canada Inc., Pharma Plus Drug
Marts Ltd. and Pharmx Rexall Drug Stores Ltd. v. Ontario (34647)
and Shoppers Drug Mart Inc., Shoppers Drug Mart ( London ) Ltd.
and Sanis Health Inc. v. Ontario (34649).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  