-- U.S. 10-Year Inflation Notes Draw Most Direct Demand Since 2011
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-11-22T00:00:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/u-s-10-year-inflation-notes-draw-most-direct-demand-since-2011.html
The Treasury’s sale of $13 billion
of inflation-indexed notes attracted the strongest demand since
2011 from a group of investors that includes pension funds and
insurers, as improved economic growth prospects sparked demand
for protection against rising consumer prices.  Direct bidders , non-primary-dealer investors that place
orders directly with the Treasury, bought 21.5 percent of the
10-year notes sold yesterday, the most since September 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The average at the past
10 sales is 10.8 percent. The Treasury Inflation Indexed
Securities sold at a  yield  of 0.56 percent, the highest at an
auction since July 2011.  “There was decent demand for TIPS at these levels as
investors are looking for inflation protection,” said Justin Lederer, an interest-rate strategist at Cantor Fitzgerald LP in
New York, one of 21 primary dealers that are required to bid at
Treasury auctions. “With economic growth expected to pick up
along with easy monetary policy, at some point inflation is due
to rise.”  Janet Yellen, a main architect of record Federal Reserve
stimulus, indicated in her Nov. 14 confirmation hearing to
succeed Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke that she’ll press on with
accommodation until she sees a robust recovery. The central bank
is buying $85 billion of bonds each month to keep borrowing
rates low and increase inflation to sustain the economic
expansion.  Inflation-indexed securities rise or fall in value tracking
changes in the consumer price index calculated by the Labor
Department. Inflation adjustments will be added to the notes’
principal and interest coupon and be payable at maturity. Demand
for the securities had surged in 2011 as yields on conventional
Treasuries fell to almost record lows and investors sought a
hedge against a possible rise in inflation from the Fed’s
unprecedented monetary-stimulus measures.  Break-Even Rates  Inflation expectations have declined this year as investors
begin to price in an end to the Fed’s bond-buying program. The
difference in yield between 10-year notes and similar-maturity
TIPS, a measure of trader expectations for rises in consumer
prices over the life of the debt called the break-even rate, was
2.19 percentage points, down from a high for the year of 2.61
percent in February.  The cost of living in the U.S. declined in October for the
first time in six months, showing inflation remains below the
Fed’s goal. The consumer-price index dropped 0.1 percent after a
0.2 percent gain the prior month, a Labor Department report
showed two days ago.  ‘Some Value’  “TIPS have suffered a lot this year to the point where
they may be poised to finally offer value,” said Adrian Miller,
director of fixed-income strategies at GMP Securities LLC in New
York. “We haven’t seen much inflation, but with economic growth
picking up, the Fed poised to taper purchases and with how beat
up TIPS have been, investors are finally seeing some value.”  TIPS have lost 8.4 percent this year after returning 7.3
percent in 2012, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
U.S. Inflation-Linked Treasury Index, and are on track for their
worst year since the securities were first issued in 1998. The
broader Treasury market has fallen 2.6 percent this year,
compared with a 2.2 percent gain in 2012, the indexes show.  The bid-to-cover  ratio , which gauges demand by comparing
total bids with the amount of securities offered, was 2.59 at
yesterday’s sale, the strongest level since March and compared
with 2.61 for the past 10 auctions.  Indirect  bidders , a class of investors that includes
foreign central banks, bought 46.7 percent of the 10-year TIPS
auctioned. They purchased 53.8 percent at the September sale.
The average for the past 10 offerings is 50 percent.  Primary dealers  won 31.8 percent of the offering, compared
with 44.6 at the previous sale.  Investors bid $2.87 for each dollar of the $1.868 trillion
in U.S. government notes and bonds sold at auction this year,
according to Treasury data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s down
from the record $3.15 for the $2.153 trillion sold at last
year’s offerings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  