-- UN Climate Talks Enter Overtime Amid Clash on Finance
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-11-23T10:20:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/un-climate-talks-enter-overtime-amid-clash-on-finance.html
United Nations global warming talks
went hours into overtime as industrialized and developing
nations bickered over timetables to boost financial pledges and
setting commitments for reducing emissions.  The European Union and U.S. are pushing for the biggest
developing nations including  China  and  India  to accept a
deadline for when all nations must present emissions pledges
that will be enshrined in a new global treaty in 2015. Poorer
nations want the developed world to spell out plans to reach a
$100 billion aid pledge for 2020.  “In the nature of these negotiations people don’t
compromise, and they don’t reach an agreement until the 11th
hour,” Irish Environment Minister Phil Hogan said in an
interview in Warsaw.  Negotiations in the Polish capital are important to lay the
groundwork for the climate agreement that countries aim to
complete in Paris in December 2015. It’s expected to take effect
in 2020 and include binding emissions limits for all nations.
That would break down the divide between nations in the existing
carbon-limiting Kyoto Protocol, a 1997 treaty that assigns
mandatory cuts to rich countries only.  Past Deadline  Discussions in Warsaw that were supposed to end at 6 p.m.
on Friday, extended past 11 p.m. with the prospect of stretching
through the night. Some issues such as a program that would
channel billions of dollars into forest protection projects were
adopted.  “Out of some 50 decisions scheduled for the Warsaw summit
we have reached decisions on more than 40,” Beata Jaczewska,
the deputy environment minister of  Poland , which is helping
guide the talks, told reporters earlier Friday. “I am convinced
we will reach an agreement.”  The envoys deadlocked on finance, with  Bangladesh , Cuba,
Nepal and  Nicaragua  demanding a rich nations agree to an interim
milestone on the way toward their $100 billion aid pledge.
Nicaragua, speaking for a group of 130 countries, sought $70
billion in aid by 2016, a target the U.S. and EU have said they
don’t accept.  The demands are important because all decisions at the
conference are made by consensus, so a few countries making
objections has the potential to block a deal.  Typhoon Concern  The typhoon that devastated the  Philippines  this month
amplified the anger of  developing countries  that industrial
nations are backtracking on previous pledges. Japan, Australia
and  Canada  have watered down commitments on emissions. The
Warsaw talks mark the first time since the UN started these
discussions in 1992 that ambitions have been scaled back.  The conference “is now on the verge of delivering
virtually nothing,” China’s lead negotiator,  Su Wei , told
envoys late Thursday. “This week saw a finance ministerial with
almost no actual finance.”  Industrial nations have so far held back from detailing how
they will fulfill a four-year-old pledge to boost climate-related aid to $100 billion by 2020. Countries such as the
Philippines, India and  Brazil  say they need predictability to
plan their budgets.  ‘Fresh Air’  “Finance is the most important issue,” Brazilian
Environment Minister Izabella Teixeira said in an interview.
“If you want fresh air in the process, we need to have a
decision about financing. If not, it’s my feeling it will be a
source of contamination for the next few years.”  Individual nations have made some commitments. Japan said
it will provide $16 billion in the next three years, an
announcement that was eclipsed by the Asian nation’s decision to
shelve plans for cutting emissions from 1990 levels by 2020.  Norway said it will pay out at least $500 million a year
through 2020, and developed nations put forward $100 million of
new pledges to fill a fund that helps poorer nations adapt to
 climate change . Another finance pool, the Green Climate Fund,
has yet to be capitalized two years after its creation.  Delegates also made progress on a “loss and damage”
mechanism to assist those coping with storms, floods and erosion
caused by rising seas and higher temperatures. It falls short of
setting up a compensation mechanism, because that was a red-line
issue for developed countries led by the EU and U.S.  No Deadline  A draft text released by the UN sketches a timeline that
includes a call for envoys to begin drafting elements of an
eventual agreement early next year. It sets no deadline for when
countries should make emissions pledges for the anticipated 2015
deal, falling short of a key demand by the European Union,
backed by the U.S., and blocs of the poorest countries and
island nations.  “We don’t know yet whether it’s all going to come
together,” Todd Stern, the lead U.S. State Department official
at the talks, said at a briefing Friday. “I think that it
probably will. There’s a lot of hours left in this process.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in Warsaw at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Ewa Krukowska in Warsaw at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  