-- Uralkali’s CEO in Moscow Jail After Belarus Extradition
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2013-11-22T09:20:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/uralkali-s-ceo-in-moscow-jail-after-belarus-extradition.html
Vladislav Baumgertner, the chief
executive officer of OAO  Uralkali (URKA) , is in a Moscow jail after the
head of the world’s largest potash producer was extradited from
 Belarus  where he spent almost three months under arrest.  Baumgertner’s immediate fate is in the hands of  Russia ’s
Investigative Committee, Kristina Belousova, a spokeswoman for
the Federal Penal Service, said today. The committee’s press
office wasn’t immediately able to comment.  The 41 year-old CEO was arrested on Aug. 26, about a month
after he withdrew his company from a marketing joint venture
with Belarus and accused Uralkali’s partner of selling potash
cargoes in breach of their trading agreement. He spent a month
in a Belarusian KGB jail, before he was moved to house arrest in
a Minsk apartment.  Uralkali is ready to assist investigators and isn’t aware
of any information to change its view that the CEO is innocent
of any crime, the Berezniki, Russia-based company said in a
statement.  The company ’s press office declined to comment
further. Alexey Basistov, a lawyer for Baumgertner, who is
accused by Belarus of abuse of office, didn’t answer his mobile
phone.  Belarus charged Baumgertner in his capacity as chairman of
the potash joint venture, which accounted for 40 percent of
global exports of the key soil nutrient.  Kerimov, Prokhorov  Russia opened a case against Baumgertner last month after
Belarus President  Aleksandr Lukashenko  demanded the country
press criminal charges as a condition for extraditing the
Uralkali CEO. A Moscow court placed Baumgertner under arrest in
absentia, Interfax reported on Oct. 21.  “As the next step, the investigator may ask the court to
soften the terms of arrest for Baumgertner and a decision may be
taken really quickly -- if not today, then next week,” Marina
Krasnobayeva, a lawyer at Moscow-based Yukov & Partners, who
isn’t involved in the case, said by phone today.  The Uralkali CEO may be placed under house arrest, or could
be released on bail, or be freed with curbs imposed on his
travel, Krasnobayeva said. The case against Baumgertner may be
processed “quite quickly,” she said.  Belarus extradited Baumgertner days after a buyer was found
for the stake of Uralkali’s biggest owner, billionaire  Suleiman Kerimov . Lukashenko had called for a change in ownership before
any prospect of a resumption of joint potash marketing.
Billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov ’s Onexim Group agreed to buy
Kerimov’s 21.75 percent, valued at about $3.5 billion.  Belarusian-born billionaire Dmitry Mazepin may later buy
the stake of about 11 percent that Kerimov’s partners hold in
Uralkali, three people with knowledge of the plans said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  