-- Vince Surges in First U.S. Apparel IPO Since Michael Kors
-- B y   L e s l i e   P i c k e r
-- 2013-11-22T21:46:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/vince-surges-after-200-million-fashion-ipo-priced-above-range.html
Vince Holding Corp. (VNCE)  rose 43 percent
in its trading debut as investors bought shares in the first
apparel company to go public in the U.S. since  Michael Kors
Holdings Ltd. (KORS)  in 2011.  Vince, the clothing designer formerly known as Apparel
Holding Corp. that’s backed by Sun Capital Partners Inc., raised
$200 million selling 10 million shares for $20 each, according
to a statement, after offering them for $17 to $19 apiece. The
shares climbed $8.66 to $28.66 as of 4:15 p.m. in New York.  The Vince brand, known for its cashmere sweaters, leather
jackets, and silk tops, was founded in 2002 in  Los Angeles  by
Rea Laccone and Christopher LaPolice. Celebrities such as  Kim Kardashian ,  Reese Witherspoon  and  Beyonce Knowles  have been seen
wearing their clothes, which are carried in 2,100 stores around
the world. Vince’s IPO is the first of an apparel company in the
U.S. since  Michael Kors  started trading almost two years ago,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Vince is understated elegance, which is what consumers
want right now,” David Wu, a luxury-retail analyst at Telsey
Advisory Group in New York, said by phone. “We’ve moved in
terms of luxury trends toward more understated looks, which is
where Vince plays.”  Shares of Hong Kong-based Michael Kors have surged 58
percent this year, more than double the gain of the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index. The Bloomberg Americas Apparel Index has
increased 40 percent in 2013 and is trading near record highs.  Sun Capital  The Vince brand was acquired in 2006 by Kellwood Co., an
apparel holding company that Sun Capital purchased two years
later in a leveraged buyout. The private-equity firm will keep
control of Apparel’s non-Vince businesses, including Rebecca
Taylor and My Michelle, according to a regulatory filing. The
company plans to use proceeds to pay down debt.  Jill Granoff has served as chief executive officer of Vince
since August 2012, after holding the CEO role at Kenneth Cole
Productions Inc. Adjusted for the separation from Apparel
Holding, Vince’s sales rose 27 percent to $114.7 million in the
six months ended Aug. 3, the filing shows.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Robert W. Baird & Co. managed
the offering. Vince is listed on the  New York  Stock Exchange
under the symbol VNCE.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Picker in New York at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  