-- Violin Memory Loses Almost Half Market Value on Forecast
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2013-11-23T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/violin-memory-loses-almost-half-market-value-on-forecast.html
Violin Memory Inc. (VMEM)  tumbled 48
percent after the maker of high-speed data storage systems
burned through about half its cash and forecast sales that may
fall short of analysts’ estimates.  The stock  plunged  to $3.11 at yesterday’s close in  New
York , leaving it down 65 percent since the company’s initial
public offering two months ago. The market value sank to $254.5
million.  Operating expenses are growing faster than sales as Violin
Memory struggles to convince customers that its faster
technology is worth the price. Only one in three sales
representatives are acquiring a new customer for the company’s
memory arrays, according to Alex Kurtz, an analyst at Sterne
Agee & Leach.  “Market adoption is still not at the levels we would
expect at this point in the company’s life cycle,” Kurtz wrote
in a report yesterday. He has the equivalent of a hold rating on
the stock. Expenses and cash burn are “becoming more acute
issues,” he said.  Violin Memory’s operating expenses jumped 41 percent in the
fiscal third quarter through Oct. 31, and the net loss widened
to $34.1 million, or 85 cents a share, from $25.4 million, or
$1.79, a year earlier, the  Santa Clara , California-based company
said after the close of regular trading on Nov. 21.  Revenue in the fiscal fourth quarter will be $30 million to
$32 million, which trailed the average  analyst estimate  of $43
million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales in the
third quarter increased 37 percent to $28.3 million. Sterne
Agee’s Kurtz wrote that the company’s U.S. government business
missed internal forecasts by $7 million to $8 million.  Violin Memory reported cash and equivalents of $82.43
million at the end of the period, after raising $145.8 million
in net proceeds from its IPO on Sept. 26.  The company competes in the data-center storage market with
 NetApp Inc. (NTAP) , EMC Corp., Dell Inc. and a host of emerging
startups.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  