-- Vodafone, Airtel Face Airwaves Auction as India Chases Revenue
-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a
-- 2013-11-22T16:12:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/vodafone-airtel-face-airwaves-auction-as-india-chases-revenue.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and  Bharti Airtel
Ltd. (BHARTI)  face an auction to keep using wireless spectrum in  India 
that are set to expire in a year, a sale through which the
government seeks to raise 400 billion rupees ($6.4 billion).  Ministers today set the reserve price for 900 megahertz
airwaves in capital New Delhi at 3.6 billion rupees. India’s
plan to sell Vodafone and Bharti’s spectrum licenses expiring in
November 2014 is being reviewed by a court, which is set to make
a decision in December.  “They have their rights and we have ours,”  Kapil Sibal ,
the minister responsible for telecommunications, told reporters
outside his home in New Delhi. “The auction will happen
sometime around January.”  Vodafone and Bharti have been at odds with India over the
expiring airwaves, which cover the cities of Mumbai, Kolkata and
New Delhi. The companies are pushing for their renewal while the
government wants to add to its revenue, leading to the legal
spat. The carriers would likely have to spend more than they had
anticipated to continue services in the world’s fastest growing
smartphone market, said Harit Shah, an analyst with Nirmal Bang
Equities Ltd.  Billionaire  Mukesh Ambani ’s Reliance Jio, his latest foray
into Indian telecommunications, may also bid for the airwaves to
add to its fourth-generation services expected to start in 2014.
“Jio could be the dark-horse and screw everything up for
Vodafone and Bharti,” Shah said.  Carriers’ ‘Lifeblood’  Bharti spokesman Ashutosh Sharma and Vodafone India
spokesman Kumar Deep declined to comment on the airwaves, as did
Reliance Industries Ltd. spokesman Tushar Pania.  The carriers will be joined by the likes of Idea Cellular
Ltd. and Reliance Communications Ltd. in India’s first auction
after two sales failed in November and March, raising just 20
percent of Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram’s original
target last year. The opening price for spectrum in  New Delhi  is
about one-third the price of the March auction.  India has reserved the right to “tweak” the reserve price
as they saw fit, Sibal said.  India has asked the telecommunications regulator to
recommend a reserve price for 800 MHz spectrum to be auctioned
along with the 900 MHz and 1800 MHz bands. The government has
failed to meet its revenue target through spectrum sales since
2010 when carriers spent $25 billion on third-generation
airwaves.  The last time India sold spectrum, in March, Russian
billionaire Vladimir Evtushenkov’s Sistema JSFC was the sole
bidder.  “Established operators need to extend the use of spectrum,
which is coming to the end of its 20-year validity. We will see
targeted auction activity this time around,” said Mohammad Chowdhury, who heads the telecommunications practice at
PricewaterhouseCoopers in India. “Spectrum is their lifeblood
to continue operations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in New Delhi at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  