-- VW to Spend $114 Billion in Pursuit of Global Sales Lead
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h   R a u w a l d
-- 2013-11-22T12:24:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/vw-to-spend-114-billion-in-pursuit-of-global-sales-lead.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,  Europe ’s largest
automaker, will maintain a high level of spending on developing
new vehicles and upgrading factories over the coming five years
to underpin its bid to become the world’s largest automaker.  VW plans to invest 84.2 billion euros ($114 billion)
through 2018, the Wolfsburg, Germany-based company said today in
a statement. The plan calls for a reduction in average annual
spending on property, plants and equipment of about 500 million
euros a year, compared with its previous budget.  “We will continue to invest strongly in our innovation and
technology leadership,” Chief Executive Officer  Martin Winterkorn  said in the statement. “This will give us extra
power on our way to the top.”  VW has been on an expansion binge in recent years as it
seeks to sell more than 10 million vehicles and overtake  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203)  and  General Motors Co. (GM)  Since Winterkorn took the
helm in 2007, the company added the Porsche, Scania, MAN and
Ducati brands. It also more than doubled the number of factories
around the world to 105. The spending pace may now slow as VW,
which forecasts sales of 9.5 million autos this year, focuses on
raising profitability.  “VW invested a lot in recent years,” said  Daniel Schwarz ,
a Frankfurt-based analyst at Commerzbank AG. “They almost
reached their sales volume target already, but profit margins
aren’t quite there yet.”  Belt Tightening  The shares  fell  as much as 1.5 percent to 192.70 euros and
were down 1 percent at 1:21 p.m. in Frankfurt trading. The stock
has climbed 13 percent this year, valuing the company at 87.9
billion euros.  VW’s Chinese joint ventures, which aren’t consolidated and
therefore not included in the group figure, will invest 18.2
billion euros through 2018 to expand in the world’s largest auto
market.  The carmaker is cutting  capital expenditures  by postponing
construction projects and improving the use of existing
capacity, it said today. Investment levels will be equivalent of
6 percent to 7 percent of annual sales in the period.  VW has become more cost conscious in recent months, saying
Sept. 24 that “further belt-tightening” was needed. The same
month the company outlined plans to boost profitability for
brands including the VW nameplate and the loss-making Seat unit.  Profit Goals  The VW car brand is forecast to lift its operating profit
margin to more than 6 percent of sales from 3.5 percent last
year, according to a Sept. 9 presentation by Chief Financial
Officer Hans Dieter Poetsch. Seat, which posted an operating
loss of 156 million euros last year, has a target profit margin
of more than 5 percent.  VW has sidestepped a slump in European car sales to a two-decade low by expanding in  China , the U.S. and  Russia . The
company has also invested in technology to share parts to lower
production costs. Spending on developing new vehicles and
upgrading existing lines will total 41.2 billion euros in the
five-year period.  Third-quarter operating profit rose 20 percent to 2.78
billion euros. The company expects full-year operating profit to
match 2012’s 11.5 billion euros as spending offsets sales gains
by the luxury Audi and Porsche brands. VW targets higher profit
in 2014.  “Volkswagen’s focus on future viability and sustainability
also extends to its investments,” Bernd Osterloh, head of VW’s
works council and a supervisory board member, said in the
statement. “It is a positive signal, particularly in light of
the difficult market environment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christoph Rauwald in Frankfurt at 
 crauwald@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  