-- Wall Street Fees Paid by NYC’s Pension Funds Climb 28%
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2013-11-22T13:57:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/wall-street-fees-paid-by-nyc-s-pension-funds-climb-28-.html
Scott Stringer vowed during his
successful campaign for  New York  comptroller to reduce the $370
million in fees the city’s five pension funds pay money managers
and consultants annually. His job, which starts Jan. 1, just got
harder.  The charges climbed to $472.5 million in the year ended
June 30, enough to pay the salaries of 6,440 teachers, a  city
report  shows. The 28 percent gain is more than double the return
on the $137.4 billion retirement system’s assets in the same
period. In the past seven years, investment expenses for the
pensions, which are overseen by the comptroller’s office, surged
by $280 million.  “I’m going to take a hard look at all of our fees,”
Stringer, a 53-year-old Democrat, said in a statement. “We need
to limit costs, ensure payments are commensurate with
performance and leverage our size and relationships with other
pension funds to negotiate lower fees.”  The growing cost underscores the challenge Stringer and
municipal officials across the U.S. face in reducing pension-management fees and boosting returns as the gap between promises
to retirees and the assets they have to pay for them has widened
to $1 trillion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. New
York’s funding deficit alone totals $72 billion.  Riskier Investing  To help shore up their funding, retirement systems such as
New York’s have turned to riskier and more expensive asset
classes, such as private equity,  hedge funds  and real estate, to
hit targeted annual returns of 7 percent to 8 percent. Money
managers of those funds typically charge 2 percent of assets
they oversee, plus 20 percent of profits, which is higher than
traditional stock and bond funds.  New York City ’s pensions had 11.6 percent of their assets
in such alternatives at the end of fiscal 2013, compared with 4
percent in fiscal 2006, according to city comprehensive
financial reports.  Blackstone Group LP (BX) ,  Apollo Global Management
LLC (APO) , and Pacific Investment Management Co. are among the city’s
almost 250 money managers.  As the pension has moved into such alternative investments,
its costs have increased to about $8 billion this year from $1.5
billion in 2002, when Mayor Michael Bloomberg took office.  “The long-term trend in  asset allocation  for most funds is
a move to more private markets,” said Alan Torrance, a partner
at Toronto-based CEM Benchmarking Inc., a consulting company.
“Private markets are more expensive than public markets.”  Retiree Benefits  U.S. pension-fund costs increased by 0.26 percentage point
on average from 2001 to 2010 as retirement systems shifted money
to alternative assets that aren’t managed in-house, according to
a 2012  report  by CEM for New York City’s pensions. For a fund
with a $1 billion in assets, the average increase is equivalent
to $2.6 million.  Fees erode investment gains crucial to funding benefits for
New York City’s more than 237,000 retirees, and future payments
to 344,000 employees. The pensions have a 10-year average annual
return of 7.5 percent, compared with a 7.2 percent gain for
public pensions with more than $5 billion in assets, according
to  Santa Monica , California-based Wilshire Associates.  “We constantly work to reduce fees across all asset
classes, including shedding poorly performing managers, moving
public-market funds into indexes, and negotiating lower fees in
alternatives,” Matthew Sweeney, a spokesman for outgoing
Comptroller  John Liu , said in an e-mailed statement.  “It’s misleading to cherry-pick one year and compare a
rise in fees with the rate of return,” Sweeney said. “Many
alternative investments, such as private equity and real estate,
have front-loaded fees that don’t generate returns for several
years.”  Since Liu took office in 2010, the funds have increased in
value to $144 billion from $100 billion, Sweeney said. He said
alternative investments have reduced risk.  Managing In-House  The pensions believe alternative investments will diversify
their portfolio against events such as the stock market collapse
in 2008 and provide attractive, risk-adjusted returns, he said.  Before departing last month to become president of
investment adviser Angelo, Gordon & Co., the city’s chief
investment officer, Larry Schloss, recommended that the pensions
hire staff with Wall Street experience and pay them higher wages
to manage money in-house. That would reduce fees and boost
returns, he said.  New York City is the only one of the 11 biggest U.S.
public-worker pensions that doesn’t manage any assets
internally.  Ontario Model  Schloss pointed to Ontario’s C$130 billion ($126 billion)
teachers’ pension fund, which manages most of its assets
internally. The fund has returned an average 9.6 percent
annually on its investments since 2003, 1.6 percentage points
better than New York’s funds.  Trustees of the city pension funds, who include
representatives of unions, were skeptical and didn’t adopt
Schloss’s strategy.  They also balked at a plan proposed by Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  and Liu two years ago to overhaul management of the
funds. The five boards, which have a combined 58 trustees, were
to be pared down to a single 12-member panel that would set
investment policy. The move would drive down costs, improve
decision-making and boost returns, the mayor and comptroller
said in October 2011.  In a July interview, Stringer, who is finishing his term as
Manhattan borough president, said the city doesn’t need to pay a
lot more to get talented money managers. The comptroller’s
office could attract public-spirited employees, “the best and
the brightest,” without paying Wall Street salaries and
bonuses, he said.  “Any time we bring down consultant fees and streamline the
bureaucracy, that’s more money for schools and cops on the other
side,” he said.  Investments in alternatives to stocks and bonds, such as
private equity and real estate, more than doubled to 24 percent
of public-pension portfolios between 2006 and 2012, according to
Cliffwater LLC, a  Marina del Rey , California-based firm that
advises institutional investors.  The mayor is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
News parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  