-- Wells Fargo’s Lofrano Was ‘Critical’ to Fraud, U.S. Says
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-11-22T23:31:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/wells-fargo-s-lofrano-should-be-added-to-fraud-suit-u-s-says.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  Vice President
Kurt Lofrano played a “critical role” in helping the bank hide
fraudulent home loans that cost the U.S. $189 million, the U.S.
government claimed in a filing in  Manhattan  federal court.  Lawyers for the U.S. today asked a judge to let it add
Lofrano to its fraud suit claiming Wells Fargo was reckless in
underwriting  mortgage loans  and failed to report fraudulent and
noncompliant loans to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development. The fraud forced the  Federal Housing Administration 
to pay $189 million in insurance claims on defaulted loans, the
U.S. said.  Lofrano, who was in charge of self-reporting for Wells
Fargo, “played a critical role in the bank’s decision not to
report to HUD, as required, more than six thousand materially
defective loans that Wells Fargo had falsely certified to HUD
for FHA insurance,” the government said in the filing.  The U.S. sued Wells Fargo last year under the Federal False
Claims Act and the Financial Institutions Reform, Reinvestment
and Recovery Act of 1989. The government said it notified Wells
Fargo Nov. 1 that it planned to add Lofrano to the case.  ‘Very Disappointed’  “Wells Fargo is very disappointed that the government is
seeking to add Mr. Lofrano as a defendant in this civil case,
Ancel Martinez, a spokesman for the San Francisco-based bank,
said in an e-mail today. ‘‘Wells Fargo has not been presented
with any facts or circumstances warranting this action nor has
the government explained why it is even remotely appropriate to
include Mr. Lofrano more than a year after first filing suit.’’  Martinez said Lofrano is a ‘‘well-respected team member’’
and that Wells Fargo stands by him ‘‘unequivocally.’’ He said
the bank has denied all allegations of wrongdoing.  Lofrano worked as Wells Fargo’s vice president in charge of
quality control from 2002 through 2010, according to the
government. He is still with the bank, Martinez said today.  The suit against Wells Fargo is part of the government’s
attempts to recover losses from defaulted mortgages insured by
the FHA. In September, U.S. District Judge Jesse M. Furman,
who’s overseeing the suit, threw out some claims against Wells
Fargo, ruling they were filed too late.  Wells Fargo in April 2012 agreed to pay $5 billion as its
share of a settlement of abusive foreclosure practice claims by
the government. A federal judge in  Washington  rejected Wells
Fargo’s argument that the agreement barred the government’s suit
against Wells Fargo.  The case is U.S. v. Wells Fargo, 12-cv-07527, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in federal court in Manhattan at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  