-- WTI Set for First Weekly Gain in Seven; Iran Deal Falters
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2013-11-22T12:54:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/wti-oil-trades-near-three-week-high-as-jobless-claims-decline.html
West Texas Intermediate crude headed
for the first weekly advance in almost two months as
applications for  unemployment benefits  in the U.S. fell and
negotiators made little progress in talks with  Iran  in Geneva.  Futures were stable in  New York  after the January contract
rallied 1.7 percent yesterday. Jobless claims fell last week to
the fewest since Sept. 28, according to Labor Department data.
Iran reached no agreement on the first step of a global accord
to resolve a decade-long dispute over its nuclear program. WTI
may drop next week as U.S. crude stockpiles increase, a
Bloomberg News survey showed.  “Talks with Iran will continue today and potentially into
the weekend, but it could take longer or another meeting before
we see any agreement,” said  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst at
VTB Capital in  London . “WTI rebounded last night amid decent
demand for refined products, today there’s some tiny profit
taking from the rally in the past two sessions.”  WTI for January delivery was at $95.36 a barrel in
electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , down 8
cents as of 12:49 p.m. London time. It rose $1.59 to $95.44
yesterday, the highest close since Oct. 31. Prices are up about
1.6 percent this week. The volume of all futures traded was 47
percent less than the 100-day average.  Brent for January settlement rose 55 cents to $110.63 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. It was
at a premium of $15.30 to WTI, widening for a third day.  Jobless Claims  The U.S. will account for about 21 percent of global oil
demand this year, according to the  International Energy Agency 
in Paris. Jobless claims decreased by 21,000 to 323,000 in the
week ended Nov. 15, Labor Department data released yesterday
show. The median forecast of 47 economists in a Bloomberg survey
was for 335,000.  “We have a scenario of an improving economic and demand
outlook,” said Ric Spooner, a chief market analyst at CMC
Markets in Sydney. “A significant amount of the Middle East
risk premium in oil has been wound back in recent weeks, so the
downside might be limited if there is an agreement.”  WTI has declined the past six weeks, the longest losing
streak in 15 years, as U.S.  crude inventories  expanded amid a
surge in production. Stockpiles climbed by 375,000 barrels to
388.5 million in the seven days to Nov. 15, said the Energy
Information Administration.  Nuclear Talks  Fourteen of 29 analysts and traders in a separate Bloomberg
survey, or 48 percent, projected WTI will fall through Nov. 29
as supplies gain. Nine respondents, or 31 percent, predicted a
price increase and six said there will be no change. Last week,
39 percent estimated futures will rise.  Brent, the benchmark crude for half the world’s crude,
advanced the most in almost two weeks on Nov. 8 after U.S.
Secretary of State  John Kerry  downplayed the chances of a
nuclear accord.  Iranian envoys and their counterparts from  China ,  Russia ,
the U.K., the U.S. and  Germany  are in Geneva for their third
round of negotiations in six weeks. Talks between Iran’s Foreign
Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif and  Catherine Ashton , the European
Union foreign policy chief, will resume today after more than
six hours of consultations yesterday, the EU said in a
statement.  “We have made no progress” toward resolving certain
disagreements in the text, Iranian Deputy Foreign Minister Abbas
Araghchi told reporters in Geneva. He said foreign ministers
won’t come unless there’s “success in negotiations.”  Iran says its atomic development is for civilian energy and
medical use and that it has a right to enrich uranium for
peaceful purposes. The U.S. and its allies say it’s covertly
seeking nuclear-weapons capability.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  