-- Yapping Seatmates a Hurdle in FCC Plan for Mid-Air Calls
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s ,   O l g a   K h a r i f   a n d   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-11-22T20:22:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/yapping-seatmates-a-hurdle-in-fcc-plan-for-mid-air-calls.html
U.S. telecommunications regulators
are poised to follow aviation officials in permitting wider use
of smartphones by airline passengers -- and not just for e-mail,
spreadsheets and Angry Birds.  Voice calls via mobile phones would be allowed aboard
planes under a Federal Communications Commission proposal
announced yesterday. Even if the move wins approval, it would
still need buy-in from airlines and passengers, who may be less
tolerant of seatmates’ conversations than of Internet surfing.  “On the plane, I don’t think people will appreciate their
neighbor yapping for hours and hours,”  Chetan Sharma , an
independent wireless analyst based in Issaquah, Washington, said
in an interview.  FCC Chairman Tom Wheeler’s proposal would end a ban put in
place because of potential interference to wireless networks on
the ground. The change follows a Federal Aviation Administration
move last month to loosen restrictions on passenger use of Wi-Fi
connected electronic devices such as  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s Kindle
and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad.  The FCC said it would use its scheduled Dec. 12 meeting to
consider the proposal, which would allow voice calls over mobile
phones at altitudes above 10,000 feet (3,048 meters) while
prohibiting them as airplanes land and take off. The change
would need another vote by the agency to take effect, and
airlines could then choose whether to allow calling.  ‘Consumer Access’  The move would “expand consumer access and choice for in-flight mobile broadband,” Wheeler said in a statement. “Modern
technologies can deliver mobile services in the air safely and
reliably, and the time is right to review our outdated and
restrictive rules.”  Shares of airborne connectivity companies  Gogo Inc. (GOGO)  and
 Boingo Wireless Inc. (WIFI)  climbed in trading yesterday. Gogo shares
jumped 7.5 percent to $29.70 in  New York , while Boingo shares
rose 9 percent to $6.78.  The FCC previously considered allowing airborne mobile-phone use and  abandoned  the effort in 2007, saying it didn’t
have enough technical information to lift the restriction in
force since the 1990s.  In its notice yesterday, the agency said it wants to give
airlines freedom to let passengers connect “via onboard
airborne access systems.” The equipment airliners would use for
in-flight calls would need approval from aviation authorities,
Justin Cole, an FCC spokesman, said in an interview.  Operate Safely  Airlines need to show the FAA they can operate safely with
passengers’ devices turned on, and three that have done so are
 Delta Airlines Inc. (DAL) ,  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  and  US
Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  The three don’t allow voice calls over their
onboard Wi-Fi systems to avoid passenger annoyance.  The  Consumer Electronics Association , which represents
makers of smartphones and tablet computers, praised the FCC
proposal as a “pro-consumer” move. Even so, the Arlington,
Virginia-based group said in a statement that any rules change
“should not negate general common courtesies.”  “Engaging in phone conversations in flight may prove
technically feasible but many may find it socially
undesirable,” the CEA said.  Gogo, which provides Wi-Fi service for partners including
Delta, United, and  US Airways , doesn’t allow voice calls over
data links at its airline customers’ request, Steve Nolan, a
spokesman, said in an interview.  “There’s some potential social backlash to allowing
passengers to talk loudly in a public environment,” Nolan said.  Passenger Survey  Airlines for America, a Washington-based trade group, had
no comment on Wheeler’s proposal, Vaughn Jennings, a spokesman,
said in an e-mail.  In comments submitted to the FAA last year, Delta said that
a survey of its customers found that 64 percent thought the
ability to make onboard calls would have a negative impact on
the flight experience.  “The overwhelming sentiment is to continue with a policy
that would not allow voice communications while in flight,”
Paul Skrbec, an airline spokesman, said today in an e-mail.  Representatives of cabin personnel yesterday objected to
the FCC proposal as adding a potential disruption to the cabin
environment.  “Passengers overwhelmingly reject cell phone use in the
aircraft cabin,” the  Association of Flight Attendants , a union,
said in an e-mailed statement. “The FCC should not proceed with
this proposal.”  FAA Change  Under its policy announced Oct. 31, the FAA initially will
allow smartphones, tablet computers and MP3 players to stay on
throughout flights, including during takeoff and landing phases,
if they’re set to so-called airplane mode, which turns off
cellular connections.  Users will be able to read or listen to content already on
their devices. To surf the Web, download content or play online
games at altitudes below 10,000 feet, their flight will have to
be equipped with a Wi-Fi service designed to work during those
phases. Heavier devices will have to be stowed at those times.  The FAA currently prohibits use of personal electronic
devices while a plane is below 10,000 feet, with the exception
of portable recorders, hearing aids, heart pacemakers and
electric shavers. The restrictions are intended to prevent
interference with flight controls, radios and navigation
equipment.  Wheeler since taking office at the FCC Nov. 4 has shown he
is prepared to act on several fronts, including rules for the
technological changes sweeping telephone service, for airwaves
auctions to feed the growing number of smartphones -- and for
in-flight calling, said Jeffrey Silva, a Washington-based
analyst for Medley Global Advisors LLC.  “He’s revving the engine, ready for take-off,” Silva said
in an e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Todd Shields in  Washington  at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  