-- Zimbabwe Plans New Law to Boost Mine Industry Development
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2013-11-22T08:37:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-22/zimbabwe-plans-new-law-to-boost-mine-industry-development-1-.html
The government of  Zimbabwe , which
has the world’s second-biggest platinum reserves, is planning a
new mine law that may compel companies to use exploration
concessions or face losing them and will determine how much
miners pay to use land.  The new act will include “a whole range of things”
including a “use-it-or-lose-it” policy and rules to ensure
value is added to Zimbabwe’s minerals before they are exported,
Walter Chidakwa, the country’s mines minister, said by phone
from Johannesburg yesterday.  “We thought we would do an amendment to the mining law,
but we realized that we need to do a complete review to the
entire law, because of the magnitude of the changes that are
required,” Chidakwa said. “We are nearly there.” He plans to
present the new law to cabinet in the first quarter.  Besides platinum and chrome deposits, Zimbabwe has reserves
of minerals ranging from coal and iron ore to gold. Investment
has been inhibited by a law compelling foreign and white-owned
companies to sell or cede 51 percent of their local assets to
black Zimbabweans or the southern African nation’s government.  Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP)  and  Anglo American Plc (AAL) ’s
platinum unit are among companies that operate in the country.
The nation will produce about 365,000 ounces of platinum as well
as metals found in the ore alongside the metal this year,
according to the country’s Chamber of Mines.  Chidakwa was appointed after President  Robert Mugabe  won
July elections to extend his 33-year reign, ending a coalition
government with the main opposition party, the Movement for
Democratic Change.  Platinum for immediate delivery rose for the first time in
three days, increasing 0.3 percent to $1,395.70 an ounce by
10:35 a.m. in Johannesburg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  