-- $140 Billion ATP Fund Rejects Mortgage Bond Risks: Nordic Credit
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2013-08-09T11:58:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/-140-billion-atp-fund-rejects-mortgage-bond-risks-nordic-credit.html
Denmark ’s biggest pension fund,
state-backed ATP, says concerns that the nation’s one-year
mortgage bonds are feeding instability in the economy are
overblown.  The investor, to which all working Danes are required by
law to contribute, says issuers including Nykredit Realkredit
A/S and Realkredit Danmark A/S have already addressed risks
related to asset and liability matching.  “There were pockets of risk, mainly from the refinancing,
but that issue has been properly addressed and we’re very
comfortable with the Danish mortgage financing system now,”
Anders Svennesen, co-chief investment officer at ATP, said in an
interview. “It’s important for us to be able to invest in
short-term interest rate products that are very safe.”  Denmark’s central bank and the head of a government-appointed commission probing the causes of the nation’s 2008
housing slump have both pinpointed one-year mortgage bonds as a
threat to the  $355 billion economy . Moody’s Investors Service,
Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings all warn that use of the
short-term bonds to finance mortgages as long as 30 years poses
risks to issuers. And as new funding requirements loom, banks
may need to dump the bonds, deemed too short to be stable by the
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision.  Relative Value  Yet the one-year mortgage bonds are trading at levels that
suggest investors aren’t too concerned.  The yield on Nykredit’s mortgage bond due April 2014 was
about 0.3 percent yesterday. The spread on the 2014 Nykredit
note relative to the interpolated government yield curve
narrowed to 19 basis points yesterday from as wide as 40 basis
points in March, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  A committee appointed by the government to identify
Denmark’s too-big-to-fail banks said in March systemically
important lenders should aim to comply with a basic stable
funding level from 2014. That’s four years earlier than a target
set by the Basel committee, which Denmark says it will
incorporate into its final rules.  “It’s a step in the right direction that the Sifi proposal
raises the issue of the funding mismatch,” Alexander Ekbom, a
Stockholm-based S&P credit analyst, said in a July interview.
“But we’re not sure that it will lead to a sufficient
solution.”  According to Svennesen, investors don’t see the same issues
that rating companies have cautioned against. ATP held 58.7
billion kroner ($10.5 billion) in Danish mortgage bonds at the
end of 2012. While Svennesen declined to give a breakdown of
maturities, he said the fund finds one-year bonds “more
interesting” than three- and five-year mortgage securities.  “Issuers have made the adjustable rate mortgage bonds even
more safe in different ways,” by raising administration fees or
capping how much of a mortgage can be backed by that type of
security,’’ he said. “We welcome these actions.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net ;
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  