-- Al-Qaeda Suspects Die in Stepped-Up Yemen Drone Strikes
-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-08-09T23:02:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/al-qaeda-militants-die-in-yemen-drone-strike-sahwa-says.html
Missile-armed drone aircraft
launched the fifth attack on suspected  al-Qaeda  militants in
Yemen in 72 hours yesterday, as the U.S. stepped up raids after
closing its embassy and warning Americans to leave the country.  The latest strike killed three people in a vehicle in the
Ghail Bawazeer region, according to the al-Sahwa website of the
opposition Islamist Islah party. The group is linked to the
 Muslim Brotherhood . At least 22 suspected militants have been
killed since Aug. 6, according to reports on the website.  The attacks occurred as the U.S., Britain and other Western
countries closed their missions in Yemen and told citizens to
leave, while Yemeni authorities said Aug. 7 they had foiled a
plot by al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, or AQAP, to seize
port facilities in Mukalla, on the  Gulf of Aden .  While the remaining core al-Qaeda group in  Pakistan  “is
very weak and does not have a lot of operational capacity,”
President  Barack Obama  told a news conference yesterday, “we
still have these regional organizations, like AQAP, that can
pose a threat, that can drive potentially a truck bomb into an
embassy wall and can kill some people.”  Embassies Reopen  The U.S. State Department tomorrow will reopen 18 of 19
embassies and consulates that were closed this week because of
an unspecified terrorist threat, according to Jen Psaki, a
spokeswoman. The facility in Sana’a, Yemen, and a mission in
Lahore, Pakistan, will remain closed because of continuing
threats from al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, she said
yesterday in a statement.  The department’s Aug. 2 global travel alert and an order
closing diplomatic posts in 22 nations followed intercepts of
communications among  Ayman al-Zawahiri , Osama bin Laden’s
successor as al-Qaeda chief in Pakistan; the head of AQAP, Nasir
al-Wuhayshi; and other regional terrorist commanders, according
to two U.S. officials who asked not to be identified discussing
classified matters.  The officials said reports that the terrorists held a
conference call are incorrect, acknowledging that Zawahiri has
been trying to coordinate terrorist activities in Yemen,  Syria ,
 Iraq ,  Africa ,  Egypt ’s Sinai desert, Pakistan,  Afghanistan  and
elsewhere.  The embassy in Sana’a will stay shut “because of ongoing
concerns about a threat stream indicating the potential for
terrorist attacks emanating from Al Qaeda in the Arabian
Peninsula,” Psaki said. She cited a “separate credible
threat” against the consulate in Lahore as the reason for
keeping it closed.  ‘Most Capable’  Yemen-based Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula is the
terrorist “franchise that is most likely and most capable to
launch an international attack,” Peter Salisbury, with London-based research organization  Chatham House ’s  Yemen  Forum, said in
an interview. “The intelligence community was pretty worried
before and are very worried now” about AQAP as “a source of
attacks on Western interests.”  Across the Yemeni capital Sana’a, the government has
boosted security around official buildings and embassies.
Checkpoints have been set up, with soldiers patrolling the
streets. At least three armored vehicles were seen yesterday
near the U.S. Embassy.  Muslim Holiday  Yesterday was the Eid holiday in Yemen, with few people on
the streets as they joined their families for the festive
occasion. Unlike recent days, no U.S. aircraft were seen
yesterday over the capital.  “The U.S. drones and planes flying over our head and
across the country is a flagrant breach of Yemen’s sovereignty -
- I feel really sad and irritated by this,” Jamal Fatah,33,
said in Sana’a yesterday as he walked past military vehicles in
front of the defense ministry on al-Qiyadah Street.  Fatah’s friend Mohammed Abduljaleel, a 36-year-old
engineer, said the blame lay with Yemen’s government. “It is
their failure that brought the Americans here and pushed them to
breach our sovereignty,” he said.  Saeed Obaid al-Jemhi, an expert on al-Qaeda and Islamist
movements and the author of a book on the Yemeni group, said the
intensified drone campaign will be counterproductive.  “The Americans feel these strikes will generate a positive
impact and that is true, but there is a huge negative impact on
Yemen,” he said. “This will generate more sympathizers with
al-Qaeda and will also weaken the popularity of the Yemen’s
President Hadi.”  Yemen Targets  The Bureau of Investigative Journalism reported a sharp
increase in U.S. operations in Yemen in 2012, with at least 32
confirmed strikes, double the number carried out in 2011. Drones
have been used to attack suspected al-Qaeda forces and other
militants in Pakistan, where the U.S. intends to end the strikes
soon, Secretary of State  John Kerry  said on Aug. 1.  The  drone  attacks in Yemen detailed by al-Sahwa this month
include three yesterday in Ghail Bawazeer, Marib and Hadramaut
that killed 11 people, as well as strikes in Shabwah on Aug. 7,
killing seven, and in Marib Aug. 6, where four militants died.  A mountainous country described by the Central Intelligence
Agency world factbook as mostly desert, Yemen has become a
battleground against al-Qaeda militants planning attacks on
Western targets and neighboring  Saudi Arabia , the world’s
largest oil exporter.  In 2011, popular unrest led to the toppling of Yemen’s
President Ali Abdullah Saleh as ruler of the poorest country in
the  Middle East , which has struggled to contain the threat from
Islamic militants even with U.S. military assistance.  Saudi authorities Aug. 8 arrested two people in contact
with an al-Qaeda linked group outside the kingdom planning to
carry out suicide operations, according to the official Saudi
Press Agency, which cited the country’s  Interior Ministry .  Ministry spokesman Major General Mansour al-Turki told Al
Arabiya television that there is a connection between the
suspects and threats to embassies in the region.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Dubai at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Alexander in  London  at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 