-- AmBev Weathering Brazil’s First Beer Drop-Off in Decade
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2013-08-09T17:58:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/ambev-weathering-brazil-s-first-beer-drop-off-in-decade.html
Brazilians are drinking less beer for
the first time in a decade. Cia. de Bebidas das Americas,  Latin
America ’s biggest brewer, says it can still boost profit.   AmBev, as the  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI)  unit is known, is
promoting higher-margin premium beers and repackaging cheaper
offerings to make them more affordable after a surprise volume
drop, Chief Executive Officer Joao Castro Neves said last week
in a conference call. It’s also expanding in Brazil’s North and
Northeast, where sales aren’t slowing as in other regions.  “Even though we’re expecting volumes to be down, that’s a
volume number, not a profit number,” Lauren Torres, an HSBC
Holdings Plc analyst, said by telephone from  New York . “They
could actually still grow their company, still generate cash and
pay dividends.”  The Sao Paulo-based drinks maker is fine-tuning operations
amid a projected 4 percent drop in beer sales this year, Chief
Financial Officer Nelson Jamel said on a July 31 call with
reporters. It would be the first annual decline since 2003,
according to AmBev presentations to analysts and investors.
While the Confederations Cup soccer tournament in June helped
buoy sales temporarily, faster inflation and federal tax
increases on soda and beer are damping consumption.  Shares Rally  Of 14 analysts covering AmBev, seven say buy, including
Torres, who has an overweight rating. Seven recommend holding
the stock. The maker of Skol and Brahma beer and bottler of
PepsiCo soft drinks  rose  0.5 percent through yesterday in 2013,
while the benchmark Ibovespa index fell 20 percent. The shares
slid 0.6 percent to 85.51 reais at 2:55 p.m. in Sao Paulo.  Alan Alanis, a JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst, said
executives are scaling back marketing and investments as they
work to counter the drop in volumes and ensure financial targets
are met. HSBC’s Torres said the aggressive cost-management style
of billionaire  Jorge Paulo Lemann , whose 3G Capital Inc. is the
biggest shareholder in AmBev parent AB InBev, will help weather
the decline.  “If they don’t deliver, they don’t get paid,” Alanis, who
rates the stock buy, said in a telephone interview from New
York. When executives last missed targets -- in 2003 and 2008 --
bonuses weren’t paid, he said. “It’s a culture that aligns the
creation of  shareholder value  with management compensation
better than any other company in the region.”  ‘Downside Risk’  Cost cuts and new product strategies may not be enough if
beer sales continue to fall sharply, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
analysts led by Luca Cipiccia said in a July 31 note. “Further
deterioration in volumes dynamics in  Brazil  is the key downside
risk,” said Cipiccia, who is neutral on the stock.  Brazil’s beer industry will “be either flat or show a
single-digit decline for the year,” CEO Castro Neves said.  For Ambev, “guidance for the year remains,” he said,
including high single-digit growth in net revenue per 100 liters
of beer produced. Sales, salaries and operating costs will rise
less than inflation, according to the company, which doesn’t
release detailed earnings forecasts.  “We got tougher in Q2, which was great, but we definitely
must remain during the second half of the year -- no question
about it,” Castro Neves said on the conference call. A press
agency for Ambev in  Sao Paulo  declined to comment further about
the company.  Second-quarter net income fell 1.1 percent from a year
earlier to 1.88 billion reais ($823 million), Ambev said last
week. Revenue rose 10 percent to 7.5 billion reais.  Strategy Working  “It’s important to emphasize that revenue rose high single
digits in the first half,” Will Landers, manager of the $4.7
billion BlackRock Latin America Fund, said in an e-mailed
response to questions. “Their revenue management strategy
worked during a period in which the economy was weak and
consumer wallets were squeezed by inflation and credit.”  Lemann’s role in Ambev has been pivotal.  The investor and his partners combined a series of Latin
American brewers into their 1989 purchase of Cia. Cervejaria
Brahma, which became AmBev in 1999. In 2004, they engineered
AmBev’s $11 billion merger with  Belgium ’s Interbrew SA. They
followed that up in 2008 with the $52 billion union with
Anheuser-Busch, which created the world’s largest brewer.  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  teamed up with 3G
Capital earlier this year to acquire HJ Heinz Co. in a $28.8
billion takeover that included debt financing. The ketchup maker
said in June that 11 executives were leaving as 3G and Berkshire
shake up management.  As the market leader, with 68 percent of beer  sales , AmBev
can pass on federal tax increases expected in October to
consumers, JPMorgan’s Alanis said. Exports may also help raise
profits as Brazil’s real weakens, he said.  “It’s a high-class company that knows how to manage
through tough conditions,” HSBC’s Torres said. “It takes a
while to convince people that things are going to swing in the
right direction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in Sao Paulo at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  