-- American Realty to Buy U.S. Buildings for $416.5 Million
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2013-08-09T13:23:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/american-realty-to-buy-u-s-buildings-for-416-5-million.html
American Realty Capital Properties
Inc. (ARCP)  agreed to buy 40 buildings for $416.5 million, extending a
string of acquisitions of single-tenant real estate.  The properties, in 20 states and net-leased to 26 tenants,
will be purchased at an 8.8 percent average capitalization rate,
the New York-based real estate investment trust said today in a
statement. The transaction allows the REIT to meet its
previously announced goal of $1.1 billion in acquisitions for
the second half of 2013, according to the company.  “We continue to identify a balance of long-term and mid-term leases for our portfolio and properties which enhance
diversity, decrease tenant and industry concentration and
further fortify our net-lease portfolio with rents that are
highly accretive to our dividend,” Nicholas Schorsch, chief
executive officer of American Realty Capital Properties, said in
the statement.  Schorsch has been on a buying spree as he seeks to build
American Realty Capital Properties into one of the country’s
largest single-tenant landlords. Last month, the company agreed
to buy American Realty Capital Trust IV, a nonlisted real estate
investment trust under the same management company, in a deal
valued at $3.1 billion. American Realty Capital Properties in
May agreed to acquire  CapLease Inc. (LSE)  for $2.2 billion, including
debt and completed the purchase of 447 properties in June.  Net-lease landlords rent buildings to one tenant, with
occupants paying such expenses as maintenance costs and property
taxes. The board of American Realty Capital Properties approved
the $416.5 million acquisition in two portions on Aug. 2 and
Aug. 5, according to today’s statement. Sellers weren’t
disclosed.  The entire $1.1 billion in properties will be purchased at
an average capitalization rate of 8 percent, according to the
company. Cap rates, a measure of investment yield, are net
operating income divided by purchase price.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dexheimer in  New York  at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  