-- American Tower Will Buy NII Holdings Sites for $811 Million
-- B y   N i c k   T u r n e r
-- 2013-08-09T21:21:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/american-tower-to-buy-nii-holdings-towers-in-811-million-deal.html
American Tower Corp. (AMT) , the largest
U.S. operator of mobile-phone towers, agreed to acquire almost
4,500 wireless sites from  NII Holdings Inc. (NIHD)  in Brazil and  Mexico 
for a total of $811 million.  Under the terms of the deal, NII’s Brazilian and Mexican
units will lease back the towers from American Tower for at
least 12 years, according to a statement today. The assets will
generate about $149 million in annual revenue and $55 million in
gross margin, American Tower said.  Wireless carriers are increasingly doing deals with tower
companies where they lease back the sites, giving an infusion of
cash and freeing them up to focus on their main businesses.
Reston, Virginia-based NII had previously said it was looking to
sell the towers, which Wells Fargo & Co. estimated would bring
in $800 million to $900 million.  The deal “provides significant cash to the balance sheet
with no major debt obligations due until 2016,” said Kevin Stadtler, president of Fort Worth, Texas-based Stadtler Capital
Management LLC, which owns 175,000 NII shares.  American Tower shares  rose 1.7 percent to $70.16 at the
close in New York. NII fell 2 percent to $6.54, signaling that
investors were already anticipating the transaction.  Peru Deal  NII, which offers service under the Nextel brand, is
selling off assets to fund network improvements in  Brazil  and
Mexico, its two largest markets. The company reached a deal in
April to sell its Peru unit to  Chile ’s Empresa Nacional de
Telecomunicaciones SA. NII also has said it’s reviewing whether
to part with its Argentina and Chile divisions.  For American Tower, the transaction helps it expand in
markets that aren’t as saturated and still upgrading to next-generation networks. The deal is slated to close in the fourth
quarter and will initially include about 4,000 towers. In all,
American Tower will acquire 2,790 sites in Brazil and 1,666 in
Mexico.  “We anticipate leveraging the strong demand backdrop in
both markets to drive meaningful revenue and cash flow growth
for many years to come,” Jim Taiclet, chief executive officer
of Boston-based American Tower, said in the statement.  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  served as American Tower’s financial
adviser, while  Kilpatrick Townsend & Stockton  provided legal
counsel. NII was advised by Deutsche Bank AG, Jones Day and
Lape Mansfield Nakasian & Gibson LLC.  Comeback Plan  NII is attempting a turnaround under Steve Shindler, who
returned to the CEO job last year after the company posted
losses in four out of five quarters. It’s converting its network
to third-generation, or 3G, technology in a bid to catch up to
competitors such as America Movil SAB and Telefonica SA, which
are already beginning upgrades to 4G.  The proceeds from the American Tower deal, when added to
NII’s $1.8 billion in cash and $380 million in financing
arrangements, will provide “significant liquidity to support
the long-term investments we are making to drive profitable
growth for the company,” Chief Financial Officer Juan Figuereo
said in a statement.  NII’s second-quarter loss, leaving out the Peru business,
widened to $384.9 million, or $2.23 a share, from $85.3 million,
or 50 cents, a year earlier. Sales slid 11 percent to $1.26
billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Turner in New York at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  