-- Hamptons Scene: Baldwin, Bradlee, Kingdon at Grey Gardens
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2013-08-09T16:19:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/hamptons-scene-baldwin-bradlee-kingdon-at-grey-gardens.html
Last night  Alec Baldwin  and his
pregnant wife, Hilaria Thomas -- she’s due next week -- received
dozens of well-wishers in East Hampton on the back porch of the
storied Grey Gardens estate owned by Ben Bradlee and Sally Quinn.  Dan Aykroyd  hung out on the lawn, hedge-fund manager  Mark Kingdon  was by the pool, and members of the Bradlee/Quinn clan,
the hosts, were everywhere.  Bradlee, the former executive editor of the Washington
Post, declined to comment on its sale to Amazon’s  Jeff Bezos 
(“I’m not going to talk about that,” he said).  Quinn, a columnist at the paper, said the deal was a
“great relief” after watching so many people leave, first with
goodbye cakes, then with no cakes because the paper couldn’t
afford them anymore.  The couple bought the estate -- once owned by Jackie Kennedy’s aunt and cousin, as chronicled on film and Broadway --
in 1979. The gathering was a drum roll for “Yoga: The Art of
Transformation,” an exhibition opening Oct. 19 at the
Smithsonian’s Freer and Sackler galleries in Washington.  The show surveys 2,000 years of yogic art with more than
130 pieces from around the world. Its curator, Debra Diamond,
spent 18 years working on it after discovering a cache of art in
a storeroom in Jodhpur, India. Wearing a white caftan she bought
in  New Delhi , Diamond promised “some big surprises.”  To help meet the costs of the exhibition, including shipping
and printing a catalog, a gala is planned on Oct. 17, with
$2,500 tickets and a limited number of $1,000 tickets.  Bringing Baby  Baldwin and Thomas, a yoga teacher in her late 20s, are the
gala’s co-chairmen, along with financial adviser and singer
Chandrika Tandon, and Jillian Sackler, the widow of Arthur
Sackler, the gallery’s namesake. Thomas, who studied South Asian
art at New York University, said she’ll bring the baby along.  “I can’t think of a better moment for yoga in
Washington,” said Quinn to the crowd, singling out
congressional leaders  John Boehner ,  Nancy Pelosi ,  Mitch McConnell  and  Harry Reid  as being in particular need of
enlightenment.  Later, standing in the living room near a pink chintz
couch, Quinn gave a more personal reason for opening up Grey
Gardens: “I did it for Pari,” she said, referring to her
daughter-in-law, Pari Bradlee, a yoga teacher who is on the gala
committee, and who met her husband while teaching him yoga.
(“Technically, she owes me three sessions,” Quinn Bradlee
said.)  Yogi McCartney  Baldwin said he doesn’t do enough yoga, though during the
month of August he takes private lessons with  Paul McCartney ,
Lorne Michaels and a few other “middle-aged white guys,” three
times a week. “McCartney’s the only serious yogi among us.”  Thomas fiddled with her wedding ring, which to her doctor’s
surprise still fits comfortably. Why no swelling? Daily yoga,
she said.  “There are great circulatory benefits,” Baldwin said.  Kingdon, president and founder of Kingdon Capital
Management LLC, does yoga and pilates. “It builds your core and
helps your back,” Kingdon said. “I feel better now than I did
30 years ago.”  Aykroyd -- who’s playing with Jim Belushi as the Blues
Brothers tonight at the Paramount Theater in Huntington,  New
York  -- was one of the many guests who confessed to not doing
yoga.  Baldwin, 55, standing next to Ben Bradlee, some two weeks
shy of 92, offered Aykroyd, 61, and other guests another option
to get healthy: “Ben and I are proof the only other thing you
can do besides yoga is marry a woman much younger than you,” he
said, getting the last word during formal remarks.  “The bar is open,” Sally Quinn, 72, replied.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater,  Greg
Evans  and  Craig Seligman  on  movies .  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 