-- AOL Said to be Closing or Finding Partners for 400 Patches
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-08-09T19:18:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/aol-said-to-be-closing-or-finding-partners-for-400-patch-sites.html
AOL Inc. (AOL)  will replace the head of its
struggling Patch local-news operation and plans to close or find
partners for 400 of the unit’s 900 community websites as it
looks to cut jobs, two people familiar with the matter said.  AOL Chief Executive Officer  Tim Armstrong  announced the
changes at a meeting with Patch editors this morning, according
to the people, who asked not to be named because the information
isn’t public. On an interim basis, AOL executive  Bud Rosenthal 
will replace Patch chief Steven Kalin, who is leaving the
company, the person said.  AOL is still calculating the number of positions that will
be eliminated as a result of the closures, which could number in
the hundreds, one of the people said.  Armstrong, who has pledged to make Patch profitable by the
end of the year, had said on Aug. 7 that AOL may have to
eliminate some of the division’s poorer-performing sites or put
them together with outside partners.  Kalin, who only  joined Patch  last December, didn’t
immediately respond to a request for comment. TechCrunch
 previously reported  on the changes.  Patch , which covers school-board meetings, local businesses
and other neighborhood stories, has been a costly part of AOL’s
strategy to transform the dial-up provider into an advertising-driven content publisher. The company has spent more than $300
million developing the sites. While the division more than
doubled its sales last year to just under $35 million, Patch’s
annual costs range between  $126 million to $162 million .  Exit Strategy  Armstrong had already eliminated 40 staff positions earlier
this year and collapsed the editorial structure, reducing the
count of 20 regional editors down to nine, a person familiar
with the move  said  in May.  After recently evaluating the Patch division, Armstrong
found a third of the 900 sites to be successful, he told
analysts on a conference call this week following their recent
quarterly earnings announcement. Another third will likely start
turning a profit, while AOL will “potentially exit” the
remainder.  “We have decreased the cost structure of Patch roughly 25
percent already this year, and we would expect to remove more
cost out of Patch going forward,” Armstrong said at the time.  Earlier this week, the company agreed to buy the video-advertising startup Adap.tv for $405 million, marking
Armstrong’s biggest acquisition since he led the spinoff of the
company from  Time Warner Inc. (TWX)  in 2009.  Adap.tv Acquisition  That acquisition reflects a different strategy than AOL’s
investment in Patch or its $315 million purchase in 2011 of the
 Huffington Post . Adap.tv will help AOL grab the ad dollars spent
on television as Internet video draws more viewers, he said.  AOL’s profit rose 6.9 percent to $361.2 million in the most
recent quarter, driven by stronger ad revenue. Total sales
advanced 1.9 percent to $541.3 million.  Patch was founded in 2007 as a personal venture by
Armstrong, who put up $4.5 million to start the business. He
eventually sold the unit for $7 million to AOL, which was then
still part of Time Warner. As AOL’s CEO, Armstrong recused
himself from the deal and forfeited the $750,000 he made in
profit. He also returned the $4.5 million he recouped from the
sale in exchange for AOL shares after it split from Time Warner.  “Patch is always something I’ve believed in,” he said
earlier this year. “And I knew it could grow within AOL.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  