-- Apple Loses China Smartphone Market Share to Cheaper Models
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-09T08:30:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/apple-loses-china-smartphone-market-share-to-cheaper-models-1-.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s share of  China ’s
smartphone market was cut by almost half in the second quarter
as consumers opted for lower-priced handsets from domestic
suppliers such as Xiaomi Corp.  The Cupertino, California-based company’s smartphone
shipments in China fell to 5 percent of the total in the second
quarter from 9 percent a year earlier, Nicole Peng, the China
research director for Canalys, said in phone interview today.
That is Apple’s lowest market share since the fourth quarter of
2010, according to estimates from Canalys.  Samsung Electronics
Co. (005930)  held the top spot with 18 percent share.  Chinese handset vendors are benefiting as carriers such as
China Unicom ( Hong Kong ) Ltd. promote low-priced smartphones
like Lenovo Group Ltd.’s A66 or  ZTE Corp. (763) ’s V790, both priced at
499  yuan  ($82). Beijing-based Xiaomi’s shipments surpassed the
iPhone by “a small margin” and moved to sixth place from
eighth a year earlier.  “Apple is only focused on the high-end segment, and
China’s smartphone market growth right now is coming from the
mid- to low-end,” Peng said. “Apple doesn’t have any products
in the mid- to low-end and that’s where Xiaomi has been building
their brand awareness.”  Apple is missing out on the broadest segment of the market
as it has yet to offer a device running the third-generation
network of  China Mobile Ltd. (941) , the world’s largest carrier with
740 million subscribers. Each of the five biggest vendors in
China has an agreement with China Mobile.  Samsung Share  Apple sells the iPhone 5 on its China website from 5,288
yuan. Xiaomi this month will offer a handset priced at 799 yuan.  “Apple is no longer the prestige handset that everybody is
aspiring to,” said  Shaun Rein , managing director of China
Market Research Group in  Shanghai . “The smartphone has become
more of a commodity and Xiaomi is selling good hardware at a
cheap price.”  Kitty Potter, a Beijing-based spokeswoman for Apple, didn’t
immediately respond to a telephone call seeking comment.  Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung’s top share of China’s
smartphone market in the second quarter was followed by  Lenovo
Group Ltd. (992)  with 12 percent, Peng said. The rest of the top five
included China Wireless Technologies Ltd.’s Coolpad; ZTE Corp.
and Huawei Technologies Co., according to Peng.  Apple Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  last month met China
Mobile chairman Xi Guohua for the second time this year in
Beijing to discuss possible cooperation between the companies.
Details of the talks weren’t disclosed.  Xiaomi Sales Target  Xiaomi will double handset sales to 15 million this year,
from 7.2 million handsets last year, founder and Chief Executive
Officer Lei Jun said in June. At the time, Lei said he was happy
with “a small and beautiful company” and not focused on
overtaking Apple in market share.  Apple will introduce a cheaper version of the iPhone to
lure more cost-conscious shoppers,  Gene Munster , an analyst at
Piper Jaffray Cos., said last month. Cook said last month the
company could win its share of price-conscious consumers by
selling its older iPhone 4 model, while he didn’t rule out a
cheaper iPhone.  While Apple still delivers a good user experience with its
closely controlled ecosystem, that’s no longer enough to
maintain share in China, said Sandy Shen, a Gartner Inc. analyst
in Shanghai.  Apple’s “advantage is evaporating as competition inches in
with better value for the money,” Shen said “If it does come
up with a low-end model, that is a self-acknowledgement that
Apple lacks innovation and has to compete with low-cost models
in order to gain share.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  