-- Harbinger Sues Deere, Garmin Over GPS Products Spectrum
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-08-09T23:07:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/harbinger-sues-deere-garmin-over-gps-products-spectrum.html
Hedge fund Harbinger  Capital Partners 
sued Deere & Co., Garmin International Inc. and  Trimble
Navigation Ltd. (TRMB) , claiming they concealed facts about global
positioning system products that ruined Harbinger’s investment
in a wireless network.  The companies are accused of failing to disclose that
Harbinger’s venture, LightSquared Inc., would interfere with
their products, according to a complaint filed today in federal
court in Manhattan. Harbinger said its damages are at least $1.9
billion.  “Plaintiffs have already lost a great deal and now stand
to lose their entire investment,” Harbinger said. “Plaintiffs
never would have made this investment if the defendants had told
the truth earlier.”  LightSquared filed for bankruptcy in 2012. U.S. regulators
blocked the service after GPS-device makers and users --
including the U.S. military and commercial airlines -- said
signals from LightSquared’s service would confound navigation
gear.  Harbinger, founded by  Philip Falcone , sued Charles Ergen
and his Dish Network Corp. on Aug. 6 in  bankruptcy court  in
Manhattan, accusing Ergen of a scheme to prevent LightSquared
from emerging from bankruptcy under Harbinger’s control.  Jim Kirkland, general counsel for Sunnyvale, Calif.-based
Trimble, said responsibility for Harbinger’s losses “rests
squarely with Harbinger.”  ‘Avoid Responsibility’  “The Harbinger lawsuit is an attempt to avoid
responsibility for the consequences of LightSquared’s plan to
build a high-powered mobile network in spectrum adjacent to GPS,
despite prior FCC restrictions,” Kirkland said in a statement.  Representatives of Deere and Garmin didn’t respond to
requests seeking comment on the lawsuit.  In the complaint, Harbinger said it wouldn’t have invested
in the LightSquared network if the companies disclosed between
2002 and 2009 what they “ultimately revealed” in 2011 and 2012
-- that they designed their GPS products to use the same
broadband spectrum assigned to Harbinger.  Harbinger is suing for fraud and violations of securities
laws. It said the GPS companies had a duty to disclose material
information that they knew Harbinger would rely on as it
invested in the LightSquared network.  The case is Harbinger Capital Partners v.  Deere & Co. (DE) , 13-cv-05543, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  