-- Balfour Beatty to Sell Facility-Managment Division to GDF
-- B y   E s h e   N e l s o n
-- 2013-08-09T13:31:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/balfour-beatty-to-sell-facility-managment-division-to-gdf.html
Balfour Beatty, Britain’s largest
construction group, will sell its U.K. facility-management
business to  GDF Suez SA (GSZ)  for about 190 million pounds ($295
million) to focus on the infrastructure industry.  The sale to the French energy company is expected to be
completed by the end of this year, and Balfour Beatty will use
the proceeds first to reduce debt and eventually to fund new
investments, the London-based builder said today in a statement.
Any spending is likely to be outside the U.K. as the company
wants to grow particularly in the U.S.,  Canada  and  South
America , Chief Executive Officer Andrew McNaughton said.  “If you listen to all the noise in the market, the  United
States  as a sleeping giant is beginning to rub its eyes” as it
wakes up, McNaughton said today in a phone interview. “We’ve
done a lot of work in the last 18 months to position ourselves
well for when that market recovers.”  The U.S. accounted for 36 percent of  Balfour Beatty (BBY) ’s
revenue last year, and the company wants to expand further in
that market, McNaughton said. The company is the preferred
bidder for a 330 million-pound contract with the University of
West Florida for a mixed-use development, the builder’s eighth
student-accommodation project in the U.S., it said on Aug. 5.  “Given the potential level of infrastructure spending in
the U.K. in the medium term,” a shift of work away from the
country “is to be expected,” said Olivia Peters, an analyst at
 RBC Capital Markets . “You’re looking at a pick-up in activity
by about 2017, so companies have to find some growth before
that.” Peters has a sector perform recommendation on the stock
with a price estimate of 200 pence.  Stock Declines  Balfour Beatty  fell  as much as 1 percent to 241.5 pence and
was trading down 0.4 percent at 2:23 p.m. in  London . The stock
has dropped 11 percent this year, valuing the company at 1.67
billion pounds.  The facilities-management unit, which operates under the
Balfour Beatty WorkPlace brand, has a workforce exceeding 9,000
employees and generated 482 million pounds of revenue in 2012,
the company said today. The sales figure amounts to about 5
percent of group revenue last year.  GDF Suez plans to continue serving Balfour Beatty
WorkPlace’s customers among U.K. state agencies and government
contractors, including the Department for Work and Pensions and
the U.K. company’s Romec joint venture with Royal Mail Group,
the Paris-based utility said in a separate statement.  A review of the facility-management unit led to the
conclusion that “we’re probably not the best parent for that
business to develop going forward,” McNaughton said. Balfour
Beatty’s focus will now be to develop infrastructure on a “more
international basis.”  Balfour Beatty’s ownership of Blackpool airport in  England 
is “not the largest consideration” for the building company,
McNaughton said. “When you actually look at the fact that now
we’ve not only exited Exeter airport but we’ve sold our airports
management business, you’d have to say that it becomes more
marginalized.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eshe Nelson in London at 
 enelson32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  