-- LBBW Halts Structured Note Sales to Meet Regulations
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2013-08-09T14:31:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/lbbw-halts-structured-note-sales-amid-disclosure-requirements.html
(Corrects document type in fifth paragraph.)  Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg, the
third-biggest issuer of structured notes this year, hasn’t sold
any of the securities for more than two months as it responds to
regulatory changes requiring greater disclosure.  The bank last sold the debt on May 29, bringing its total
issuance to $3.7 billion this year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The lender, which has issued more than banks
including Deutsche Bank AG and HSBC Holdings Plc, has ceased
issuance while it amends documentation for the notes to adhere
to updated rules from European regulators, according to Bernd
Wagner, a Stuttgart-based spokesman for the bank.  Financial companies selling structured notes in  Europe  had
to implement changes to their prospectuses by July 2013 to give
more detailed explanations of how returns on the securities are
calculated and how they will perform in certain market
conditions. The directive forms part of a broader push from
regulators to increase transparency for the investments, which
have been criticized for being opaque.  “This is not just a technical change to regulations,”
Simon Bladon, a managing director in  Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s legal
department in London, said in a telephone interview. “It’s a
complete overhaul with the purpose of helping the end retail
investor better understand what he is buying.”  More Disclosure  The European Commission introduced the Prospectus Directive
in 2003 to standardize marketing materials for the securities
across the region. The rules mandate that structured note
sellers provide broad disclosures about general conditions
applicable to their securities in a so-called base prospectus.
Specific details for individual products can be disclosed in a
final terms document, which is not subject to review, according
to Michael Cavers, a partner at CMS Cameron McKenna LLP in
 London .  A 2010 amendment to the directive required banks to add
details on pay-out formulas and types of structured notes they
planned to issue into the base prospectus rather than being
included in these final terms. Banks received a one-year
extension to comply with the regulation as long as they updated
their prospectus under the old rules before July last year.  LBBW took advantage of that extension, Wagner said. He
declined to comment on when the bank will resume sales.  Barclays Plc also received an extension and has so far
replaced its global prospectus with eight separate documents
grouped by product type, according to Bladon.  “Adapting issuance programs and prospectuses to comply
with the updated laws can be time-consuming and expensive,”
Cavers said.  “Issuers have to spend a lot of money on making changes to
their prospectuses and what they end up with is really complex
and I’m not sure whether it adds much to the sum of disclosure
for investors,” said  Andrew Roberts , a London-based partner at
law firm Herbert Smith Freehills LLP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  