-- Beirut Gunmen Kidnap Two Turkish Airlines Crew Members
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2013-08-09T11:28:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/beirut-gunmen-kidnap-two-turkish-airlines-crew-members-from-bus.html
Gunmen abducted two  Turkish Airlines (THYAO) 
crew members from their bus in  Beirut , Lebanon’s official
National News Agency said, and a Shiite group claimed it had
carried out the kidnapping.  The vehicle was stopped by at least eight men as it headed
to a hotel from the city’s airport early today, the agency said.
It identified the men as captain Murat Akpinar and his co-pilot
Murat Agga. Lebanon’s Interior Minister Marwan Charbel said the
two were taken at 3 a.m.  A group calling itself “Zuwwar Imam Reda” claimed
responsibility for the abduction, NNA said. The imam is an
Islamic leader revered by Shiites.  The group demanded the release of nine Lebanese Shiites
held by Syrian rebels. The men were seized last year in  Syria 
near the border with Turkey, which has sided with the opposition
battling Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.  Families of the abductees have said Turkey has influence
over the rebels and isn’t doing enough to free them.      Shiite
protesters, who have rallied against Turkish interests in
Lebanon have threatened to escalate the demonstrations.  The families’ spokesman, Daniel Shuaib “thanked” the
group that claimed the abduction, saying “there’s no other
option” to free the nine, NNA said.  Sheikh Abbas Zoughaib, who has been deputized by Lebanon’s
Supreme Shiite Council to follow up on the Lebanese held by the
rebels, told NNA that the families of the hostages don’t have
anything to do with today’s incident.  “But if we had known about it, we would have encouraged
it,” Zoughaib said. “The Turks have been manipulating the
emotions of the Lebanese for more than a year.”  If today’s kidnapping aims at resolving the issue of the
Lebanese hostages “then we call on everyone to stand by the
party behind it,” he added.  Lebanese officials have traveled to  Turkey  on several
occasions seeking their help in freeing the Lebanese. He said
this month that the abductee’s issue depends on the Turkey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Beirut at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  