-- Bernanke Successor Seen as No Obstacle to Tarullo Banking Rules
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2013-08-09T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/bernanke-successor-seen-as-no-obstacle-to-tarullo-banking-rules.html
The Federal Reserve governor leading
the central bank’s effort to tighten financial regulation has a
decision to make as its governing board is reshaped: Should he
stay or should he go?  Overshadowed by speculation about the next Fed chairman is
the question of how that appointment will affect the work of
 Daniel Tarullo , the Fed governor in charge of bank supervision.
While Tarullo hasn’t disclosed his plans, he is in the middle of
work on pending rules that may take at least two years to
complete. The 60-year-old Georgetown University law professor
declined through Fed spokeswoman  Barbara Hagenbaugh  to comment.  President  Barack Obama  will appoint a chairman and at least
two governors to the Federal Reserve Board over the next few
months. Obama’s commitment to regulatory overhaul makes it
unlikely any of his nominees would stand in the way of
completing the task, said H. Rodgin Cohen, a partner at the New
York law firm Sullivan & Cromwell LLP.  “I just can’t imagine the president appointing a chairman
or another governor who isn’t broadly consistent with where we
are in the regulatory environment today,” said Cohen, whose
clients include the largest banks in the U.S.  Fed Vacancies  Ben S. Bernanke ’s second term as chairman expires in
January, and two members are leaving the board:  Elizabeth Duke ,
who will resign Aug. 31, and  Sarah Bloom Raskin , whom Obama
plans to nominate to be deputy  Treasury secretary . Duke’s
departure will make Tarullo the longest-serving member of the
board after Bernanke.  As replacements fill the three vacancies, Tarullo’s current
efforts on regulation are unlikely to be deterred, former Fed
regulators and economists say. With several rule makings under
way, members of Congress in both parties are demanding that the
Fed accelerate its implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act.  “They’re taking too long,” said Senator  Sherrod Brown , an
Ohio Democrat who is head of a Senate Banking Committee panel
with oversight authority over the Fed’s performance on
supervision and regulation.  “Tarullo’s been a good adviser,” Brown said in an
interview. “He’s right on most of these regulatory issues.”  Senator  Mike Crapo  of  Idaho , the Banking Committee’s
ranking Republican, pressed Tarullo at a hearing last month on a
timeline for completing new bank-capital rules and said he was
interested in the “additional steps” regulators were
considering to buffer the risks of the largest banks.  Financial Stability  Adding to the momentum is recognition among central bankers
that financial stability is a prerequisite for effective
monetary policy, said former Fed Governor  Laurence Meyer .  “If the financial system is impaired, it is going to make
it very difficult for monetary policy to carry out its
traditional role,” said Meyer, now a senior managing director
at Macroeconomic Advisers LLC. “Supervision and regulation is
the first line of defense.”  Obama has mentioned former Treasury Secretary  Lawrence Summers , Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  and former Vice Chairman
 Donald Kohn  as potential successors to Bernanke. If Yellen isn’t
chosen to succeed Bernanke and elects to remain at the Fed, her
term as vice chairman expires in October 2014.  “All of the candidates said to be in consideration seem
likely to support the current trajectory of regulation,” said
 Patrick Parkinson , a managing director at bank adviser
Promontory Financial Group in  Washington  and the former head of
the Division of Banking Supervision and Regulation at the Fed
Board.  Summers’s Views  Summers, as Treasury secretary from July 1999 until January
2001, oversaw the repeal of laws separating banking and
brokerage and said markets were better regulators than
government.  “It is the private sector, not the public sector, that is
in the best position to provide effective supervision,” he said
in a November 2000 speech.  The financial crisis discredited that approach, and as the
consensus changed so did Summers. As a White House adviser in
2009, he expressed dismay at the economic and human cost of the
crisis, and said it was time for “a fundamental change in the
way those institutions are regulated.”  A speech by Yellen this year shows a full endorsement of
the regulatory program now under way.  Reducing the likelihood that the largest banks will once
again need taxpayer-funded bailouts “will require steadfast
implementation by global regulators over the next few years,”
and may require “a steeper capital surcharge curve or some
other mechanism for requiring that additional capital be held by
firms,” Yellen said in a June 2 speech in  Shanghai .  Kohn, who was Fed vice chairman during the financial
crisis, is currently a member of the Bank of England’s Financial
Policy Committee, a new, independent unit charged with removing
or reducing systemic risk.  Tarullo’s Influence  Tarullo’s term runs until 2022 and his continuing service
on the board would help assure completion of the regulatory
overhaul. Tarullo and Bernanke used the financial crisis to pull
some of the Fed’s supervisory power back to the Board of
Governors and institute some of the biggest changes in oversight
in the central bank’s 100-year history. Now, the annual stress
tests of the largest banks are largely organized by board staff
with input from the reserve banks.  Tarullo formed the Large Institution Supervision
Coordinating Committee, a group of regulators, economists,
lawyers, payment systems experts and reserve-bank supervisors.
The group meets in Washington to coordinate their review and
analysis of trends emerging in the largest banks. Bernanke and
Tarullo also formed the Office of Financial Stability Policy and
Research, a new Washington division charged with spotting
systemic risk.  Shifting Focus  “You are going to see much more focus on the largest
institutions,” said Deborah Bailey, former deputy director of
the Division of Banking Supervision and Regulation at the Fed
Board and now a managing director at  Deloitte & Touche LLP .
“You are seeing a lot of focus on risk management and
governance around risk management.”  Tarullo’s influence extends beyond the Fed. He attends
meetings of the Financial Stability Oversight Council
principals, a group of regulators that meet on systemic risk.  This year he was appointed chairman of the Standing
Committee on Supervisory and Regulatory Cooperation at the
Financial Stability Board, a group of regulators that meets to
align policy. That seat puts Tarullo in a position to defend the
Fed’s internationally unpopular decision to force large foreign
banks to form holding companies in the U.S. and fall under
stricter Fed oversight.  At an open Fed board meeting held July 2 in Washington,
Tarullo discussed four initiatives that his team and other
agencies were working on, three of which would be out this year.  Leverage Ratios  Days later, in the first of these, the Fed, the Office of
the Comptroller of the Currency, and the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. proposed a leverage ratio of 6 percent for
deposit and lending units, twice the world standard. For holding
companies, the ratio would be pegged 2 percentage points above
the international minimum of 3 percent. A leverage ratio
measures how much capital stands behind a bank’s assets to
absorb losses.  Tarullo also said the Fed will issue a proposal on the
amounts of equity and long-term debt the biggest banks should
maintain to facilitate their resolution in case of failure. Also
this year, the Fed may issue a proposal on capital surcharges
for the largest systemically important banks, he said. Finally,
he said, the board staff is working on a proposal for a capital
tax on large firms that are too reliant on short-term, wholesale
funding.  Entrenched Process  Interrupting an entrenched regulatory process like this
could be difficult given its complexity, Tarullo’s mastery of
the subject and the bipartisan urgency in Congress for a plan
that prevents large banks from coming back to taxpayers for a
bailout.  “There is a tremendous amount of momentum behind these
reforms and a lot of pressure to get Dodd-Frank implemented,”
said John Dearie, executive vice president at the Financial
Services Forum in Washington and a former member of the  New York 
Fed staff.  Edward Kane, a professor of finance at  Boston College  who
has written about incentives involving the federal safety net
for much of his career, said the real challenge for the next
chairman will be making sure the banks and financial
institutions are compliant with the rules Congress and
regulators have put in place. Some of those rules will create
more rather than less risk, he said.  Higher capital standards, for example, increase risk-taking
because firms seek to sustain high returns for shareholders. The
bigger the downside exposure, the greater their implicit
reliance on a bailout or rescue. “When it comes to controlling
regulation-induced risk-taking, regulators are outcoached,
outgunned, and always playing from behind,” Kane wrote in an
essay in January.  “Regulation isn’t just rules, it is enforcement,” he said
in an interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  