-- Biofuel Credit Shortage to Boost U.S. Gasoline Exports, IEA Says
-- B y   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2013-08-09T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/biofuel-credit-shortage-to-boost-u-s-gasoline-exports-iea-says.html
A shortage of biofuel credits needed
for  gasoline  sales in the U.S. may lead to an increase in
exports of the fuel from America in 2014, according to the
International Energy Agency.  The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, earlier
this month maintained its target requiring 16.55 billion
gallons, or 1.1 million barrels a day, of biofuels be blended
into the country’s gasoline and diesel supplies this year. This
led to concerns as to whether the domestic gasoline market can
absorb this volume of biofuel and may have hit the so-called
“blend wall,” the IEA said today.  Refiners can offset this requirement by buying credits,
known as Renewable Identification Numbers, or RINs. The price
has increased more than 10 times to a record $1.43 per RIN last
month as traders bought the credits amid uncertainty over how
much biofuel blending will be required this year and next,
according to the agency.  “Some industry participants warn that a shortage of RINs
will force firms to reduce the gasoline volumes offered in the
U.S. market in 2014 and after,” the Paris-based IEA said in its
monthly Oil Market Report. “Instead, gasoline production could
be exported as only fuel supplied to the U.S. market require a
RIN certificate.”  The blending requirement has had an “uneven impact for
U.S. refiners,” the agency said.  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  has been
the hardest hit by the rise in RINs prices and is having to
spend as much as $800 million this year on the credits while
 Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  said it has sufficient blending capacity to
keep RINs cost at a minimum, according to the IEA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  