-- BlackBerry Rises on Report Company May Go Private
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2013-08-09T20:56:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/blackberry-rises-on-report-company-may-go-private.html
     Aug. 9 (Bloomberg) -- BlackBerry Ltd., the Canadian
smartphone maker, climbed 5.7 percent after Reuters reported
that the company is considering going private.  Chief Executive Officer Thorsten Heins and the board are
coming around to the idea that going private would give them the
leeway to fix problems out of the public view, Reuters reported,
citing unidentified sources. While there is a change of tone on
the board, no deal is imminent, according to the story.  The company, which released its new BlackBerry 10 lineup
this year in a bid to win back market share, has suffered from
lackluster demand and a fizzling stock rally. Last month, the
price of its Z10 flagship touch-screen model was cut to $49.99
amid sluggish sales. The phone had originally gone on sale in
the U.S. in March for $199.99 with a two-year contract.  The stock rose to $9.76 at the close in New York. Shares of
the company have lost 18 percent this year.  Lisette Kwong, a spokeswoman for Waterloo, Ontario-based
BlackBerry, declined to comment to Bloomberg on the report.  Before Heins became CEO in January 2012, the company  held
talks  with private-equity firm Silver Lake Management LLC about
possibly going private, a  person familiar with the discussions
told Bloomberg News last year. The talks were preliminary and
the two sides weren’t able to agree on a potential valuation,
the person said.  Silver Lake has had no meetings with BlackBerry in the past
year, a person familiar with past discussions said today.  Dell Buyout  Reuters said today that BlackBerry has held recent
discussions with Silver Lake about collaborating in enterprise
computing, though the talks didn’t involve a buyout or other
transaction, Reuters said.  Personal-computer maker  Dell Inc. (DELL)  has spent this year
pursuing a leveraged buyout with Silver Lake against opposition
from billionaire financier  Carl Icahn  and other shareholders.
Like BlackBerry, Dell has struggled to adapt to a slump in
demand for its products amid soaring demand for devices made by
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  -- in this case, iPad tablets rather than iPhones.  Last month, Heins reiterated that the company was seeking
partners to expand the footprint of its BlackBerry 10 operating
system and help with its turnaround.  “We will do our homework and assess what we think is best
for the company and then we will have discussions and they will
either yield partnerships, alliances or not,” Heins told
shareholders in July at BlackBerry’s annual meeting in Waterloo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Miller at 
 kmiller@bloomberg.net  