-- BM&FBovespa Sales Beat Estimates as Market Plunge Boosts Trading
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-08-09T00:02:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/bm-fbovespa-sales-beat-estimates-as-market-plunge-boosts-trading.html
BM&FBovespa SA (BVMF3) , the operator of Latin
America’s biggest securities exchange, reported second-quarter
sales that beat analysts’ estimates as initial public offerings
and market volatility boosted trading volume.  Revenue climbed 11 percent from a year earlier to 599.8
million reais ($262.5 million), the Brazilian exchange said
today in a regulatory filing. The average  estimate  of ten
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for sales of 597.2 million
reais. Profit climbed 17 percent from a year earlier to 350.8
million reais.  Average daily trading volume in stocks increased 8.5
percent to 8.3 billion reais. Brazil has had seven IPOs this
year, compared with three in 2012, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Three-month historical volatility for the country’s
Ibovespa stock benchmark peaked at 21.5 percent on June 27, up
from 17 percent at the start of the three-month period. The
Ibovespa  tumbled  16 percent during the quarter.  “There was a lot of news that made trading increase in the
second quarter,” Felipe Rocha, an analyst at brokerage Omar
Camargo, said by phone from Curitiba,  Brazil , before the
earnings release. “Brazil’s first-quarter growth, announced at
the end of May, was a big disappointment for investors, and
speculation over the Federal Reserve’s plans for U.S. stimulus
for the American economy also helped to boost volume.”  Brazil’s gross domestic product increased 1.9 percent in
the three months through March, according to the national bureau
of statistics. The median estimate among analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg was for an advance of 2.3 percent.  BM&FBovespa’s  shares  rose 4.1 percent to 12.10 reais today
in Sao Paulo before the results were released. They’re still
down 14 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  