-- BMG May Extend Debt Profile on Better Credit After Itau Venture
-- B y   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o
-- 2013-08-09T18:07:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/bmg-may-extend-debt-profile-on-better-credit-after-itau-venture.html
Banco BMG SA, whose bonds are
delivering the second-best returns in Brazil this year, said it
aims to extend its debt profile as  credit quality  improves after
forming a joint venture with Itau Unibanco Holding SA.  BMG’s $250 million of subordinated bonds due 2020 have
returned 21.4 percent in 2013, the most among Brazilian
companies after meatpacker  Marfrig Alimentos SA. (MRFG3)  Yields on the
securites have tumbled 2.49 percentage points to 11.83 percent.  “If I offer a rate that is a little less, but I am
extending the horizon, I think it’s a good deal,” BMG Chief
Executive Officer Antonio Hermann de Azevedo, who is meeting
with investors in New York next month, said today in an
interview at Bloomberg’s Sao Paulo offices. “It’s natural.”  BMG’s payroll-lending venture with Itau is boosting
investor confidence after it helped the bank snap a streak of
four quarterly losses with a profit in the first quarter of this
year. Second-quarter net income rose to 223 million reais ($98
million), up from 121.3 million reais in the previous three
months, according to an earnings statement this week.  Fitch Ratings  called the results “credit positive” in a
report today, adding that the accord with Itau supports BMG with
funding “it needs to generate good recurring earnings.”  Under terms of the venture, which started operating in
March, Itau provides unlimited funding for payroll lending, plus
300 million reais directly to BMG over five years.  BMG ended the second quarter with about $1.5 billion of
overseas  debt  due 2014 to 2020, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The  Belo Horizonte , Brazil-based bank, which is
moving its headquarters to Sao Paulo this month, expects to
triple the balance of local bank bonds, known as letras
financeiras, to 1.5 billion reais by year-end and is preparing
two asset-backed receivables funds, known as FIDCs, of about 500
million reais apiece, Azevedo said.  Extending debt maturities must be treated “very cautiously
to avoid any wrong bond movements,” said Danilo Herculano, the
head of  investor relations . “As the investors understand this
credit improvement, they will feel more comfortable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francisco Marcelino in  Sao Paulo  at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  