-- BP Bids for Urals Crude; FPS Pipeline Halt Causes Forties Delays
-- B y   L a u r a   H u r s t   a n d   S h e r r y   S u
-- 2013-08-09T16:39:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/bp-bids-for-urals-crude-fps-pipeline-halt-causes-forties-delays.html
BP Plc (BP/)  failed to buy Russian Urals
crude even after bidding at a higher level than yesterday’s
trade. There were no bids or offers for  North Sea  Forties blend.  Throughput via the Forties Pipeline System was halted for a
few hours early this morning because of an “instrument trip,”
a BP official said by phone today. The closing caused three
Forties cargoes to be deferred again, two people with knowledge
of the matter said.  North Sea  No bids or offers were made for Brent, Oseberg or Ekofisk
crudes, a Bloomberg survey of traders and brokers monitoring the
Platts pricing window showed.  Reported crude trading typically occurs during the Platts
window, which ends at 4:30 p.m.  London  time.  Brent for September settlement traded at $107.36 a barrel
on the ICE Futures Europe exchange at the close of the window,
compared with $106.74 in the previous session. The October
contract was at $106.03, a discount of $1.33 cents to September.  Production at some of the 80  oil fields  that feed into the
FPS pipeline is gradually being restored, BP said. The pipeline
returned from 5 days of maintenance on Aug. 6.  Forties lots F0802, F0804 and F0805 will now load one to
four days later than last scheduled, the people said, asking not
to be identified as the information is confidential.  The Nexen Inc.-operated Buzzard field is scheduled for a
two-weeks of maintenance later this month, the  International
Energy Agency  said in a monthly report today. Nexen didn’t reply
to a phone call and two e-mails seeking comment.  Mediterranean/Urals  BP didn’t manage to buy 100,000 metric tons of Urals at 80
cents a barrel above Dated Brent for loading Aug. 21 to Aug. 25
and delivery to Rotterdam, the survey showed. The bid is 10
cents more than a trade yesterday for a later loading cargo.  Azeri Light shipments from  Georgia ’s Black Sea port Supsa
will be little changed in September, according to a loading
schedule. The program consists of three 600,000-barrel cargoes
and one 570,000-barrel lot. This compares with four shipments of
600,000 barrels each this month.  Exports of Iraqi crude may be reduced for four to six
months given the scope of infrastructure work at southern
terminals and the “country’s poor record of delivering projects
on time,” the IEA said today.  West Africa  Four cargoes of Nigerian Bonny Light crude will be exported
next month, according to a loading program obtained by  Bloomberg
News . The cargoes are 950,000 barrels each. No consignments were
originally scheduled to load in September.  A force majeure on Bonny Light, remains in place, Ross Whittam, a spokesman for  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , said today by
phone in London. Whittam declined to comment whether the Nembe
Creek pipeline, which supplies the Bonny terminal is operating  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Hurst in London at 
 lhurst3@bloomberg.net ;
Sherry Su in London at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  