-- Budget Cuts Hurt Rheinmetall to Cobham as U.S. Protects Programs
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-08-09T12:54:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/budget-cuts-hurt-rheinmetall-to-cobham-as-u-s-protects-programs.html
European defense companies from
 Rheinmetall AG (RHM)  to  Cobham Plc (COB)  are bearing the brunt of government
budget cuts, contrasting with a more upbeat outlook in the U.S.,
where companies are still showing resilience to reductions.  Rheinmetall, which makes the Leopard 2 battle tank, became
the latest victim of a market in decline, reporting an 8 percent
drop in first-half revenue today after already axing its full-year forecast lats month. The company joined Cobham Plc,
 Finmeccanica SpA (FNC)  and  Sweden ’s  Saab AB (SAABB)  in providing a muted
outlook or lower earnings as governments curtail spending.  The decline in  Europe  stands in contrast to the U.S., where
missile maker  Raytheon Co. (RTN)  joined  Lockheed Martin Corp (LMT) , the
world’s largest arms maker, and  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  in
reporting second-quarter profits that beat analysts’ estimates
and raised profit outlooks for the full year. Those companies
have each gained more than 30 percent this year, making them
three of the four best performers on the Standard and Poor’s 500
Aerospace & Defense Index.  “It is the U.S. top primes coming out of this smelling
like roses because the big programs are being protected,”  Nick Cunningham , a London-based analyst at Agency Partners, said in a
telephone interview. “The European governments don’t spend
enough to maintain a healthy defense manufacturing industry and
so companies are very reliant on very lumpy exports.”  In Decline  European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co., the parent of
Airbus SAS, is merging its defense and space activities to give
the combined business more heft, and the company has predicted
little growth at home for coming years as governments tighten
budgets.  The French government on Aug. 2 announced a five-year
military spending plan that trims purchases of Rafale fighters,
made by  Dassault Aviation SA (AM) , to 26 planes from more than 60.
 Spain  also said it plans to cut military plane purchases.  “The defense business is going down, it is shrinking in
Europe,” EADS Chief Executive Officer  Tom Enders  said July 31.
“Our forecast is that at least for the rest of the decade it
will stay a flat or shrinking business.”  The situation in the U.K. is more mixed, with cuts already
having taken place after the 2010 Strategic Defense & Security
Review and now stabilizing, Cunningham said.  BAE Systems Plc (BA/) , Europe’s No. 1 defense contractor,
slightly improved its full-year earnings outlook on Aug. 1  to
double-digit growth in underlying earnings per share, with an
improved outlook for its U.K. business, even as the sales
outlook for its U.S.-based land-vehicle activities weakened.  Reduced Spending  Automatic spending reductions, or sequestration, created by
President  Barack Obama  and congressional Republicans as a
penalty for failing to agree on a deficit-reduction strategy,
will strip $1.2 trillion from national security and domestic
programs over nine years unless an alternative is enacted.  U.S. Defense Department spending on contracts fell 9
percent to $361 billion in the year ended Sept. 30 from the 2008
peak of $397 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Even as big-ticket equipment purchases have been shielded
from U.S. cuts, companies have been hurt primarily on reductions
in shorter-term contracts that come up for renewal.  “It is short-cycle areas such as services and some
electronics where you are seeing the impact of these cuts,”
said Robert Stallard, a London-based analyst at RBC Capital.  Cobham is among those hurt the most, he said. The Wimborne,
England-based company reported a 7 percent decline in organic
revenue at its U.S. defense and security operations, the largest
sales contributor.  Short-Cycle Demand  “Our concern is always on the short-cycle business,” CEO
Bob Murphy told analysts yesterday as he adjusted the earnings
outlook to reflect sustained uncertainty in U.S. spending plans,
including the absence of a budget for the fiscal year starting
in October.  Other European companies, many of which are exposed to the
U.S. on shorter-term training and services contracts that have
been hit hardest, also blamed U.S. spending. Saab’s CEO, Hakan Buskhe, predicted last month that “budget uncertainty may ‘‘go
on for some more years.’’  U.S. Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel said July 31 the
Pentagon will have to choose between a decade-long
‘‘modernization holiday’’ cutting equipment spending or a
smaller military. If budget cuts are not reversed, programs
including the Lockheed Martin F-35 Joint Strike Fighter, the
Pentagon’s single biggest weapons program, could suffer under
options Hagel said came out of a ‘‘Strategic Choices and
Management Review.’’  ‘‘We think there’s more to come on sequestration,’’ Boeing
Chief Executive Officer Jim McNerney said July 24. ‘‘We are not
out of the woods at all. We’re just entering the woods.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  