-- Buffett-Like Buyers Seen Lured to Hanesbrands: Real M&A
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2013-08-09T20:17:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/buffett-like-buyers-seen-lured-to-hanesbrands-real-m-a.html
Boxers and bras may be next on the
shopping list for private-equity buyers with  Hanesbrands Inc. (HBI) 
offering one of the cheapest valuations in the retail industry.  The underwear maker’s $6.2 billion market value is  12 times 
its free cash flow from the past year, lower than all but two
similar-sized U.S. apparel companies, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. While  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. has
43 percent of the U.S. industry through brands including Fruit
of the Loom, suitors would get a second-place share of 19
percent by buying Hanes, data compiled by IBISWorld Inc. show.  “Berkshire Hathaway has bought all the competitive
businesses that look like Hanes,” said John Schneider, a  fund
manager  at Waltham, Massachusetts-based Granahan Investment
Management Inc., which oversees about $3 billion including Hanes
shares. “There’s a template there for a private-equity guy to
come in and take a hard look at Hanes.”  After Winston-Salem, North Carolina-based Hanes  rallied  74
percent this year, private-equity suitors may be inclined to
pounce before the price tag gets too high, FBR & Co. said. The
seller of Wonderbra lingerie and Champion sweatpants that agreed
to buy Maidenform Brands Inc. last month could fetch as much as
 $78 a share  in a sale, a 25 percent premium, according to
Channing Capital Management LLC.  Matt Hall, a spokesman for Hanes, didn’t respond to phone
calls or an e-mail seeking comment.  Michael Jordan  Hanes, which has featured basketball star  Michael Jordan 
and actor  Kevin Bacon  in commercials, was spun off from Sara Lee
Corp. in 2006. The company will have $4.6 billion in  sales  in
2013, the highest annual  total  since the split, according to the
average of analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Since announcing it plans to buy Maidenform for about $575
million including debt on July 24, Hanes has risen 17 percent,
 trouncing  the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index’s 0.3 percent advance.  Even after the rally, it still trades at a cheaper multiple
to free cash flow than 89 percent of U.S. apparel, footwear and
accessories-design companies valued at more than $1 billion,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Hanes posted free  cash flow  of
$516 million during the past year.  Today, shares of Hanes fell 0.5 percent to $61.91.  Given peers’ higher valuations and Hanes’s opportunities,
the company’s multiple could rise, Susan Anderson, an Arlington,
Virginia-based analyst at FBR, said in a phone interview. “If
anyone is looking at it, they would look now.”  ‘Solid, Steady’  Private-equity suitors could be attracted to Hanes’s free
cash flow and  falling debt , according to Schneider of Granahan.  The company’s total debt, which exceeded $2 billion as
recently as the middle of last year, has dropped to $1.6
billion. Analysts see Hanes producing $442 million of free cash
flow in 2014, according to the  average  of estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. The underwear maker is funding its acquisition of
 Maidenform (MFB)  with cash and short-term borrowings that will be
repaid with free cash flow.  “It’s a very good, solid, steady  business , and if you get
the cost structure right, from a cash-flow perspective, it’s
absolutely tremendous,” Schneider said in a phone interview.
While Hanes may seek to buy more companies, “there’s probably
some pretty good private-equity economics to be gained.”  Buyout firms would be following Buffett into underwear.
Berkshire purchased Hanes competitor Fruit of the Loom Ltd. a
decade ago and picked up Russell Corp. in 2006. Berkshire has 43
percent of the $529 million U.S. apparel knitting mills
industry, which includes makers of underwear and nightwear,
compared with 19 percent at Hanes and 16 percent at American
Apparel Inc., according to a December report from IBISWorld.  Foreign Bidders  In addition to private-equity firms, an international
retailer looking for U.S. expansion also could bid, said  Eric Beder , a New York-based analyst at Brean Capital LLC. He
declined to name any potential buyers.  Hanes could be valued at as much as $78 a share in a sale,
according to Eric McKissack, co-chief investment officer of
Chicago-based Channing Capital Management. The shares closed at
$62.39 yesterday.  Hanes management may want to keep expanding independently
and could demand a premium that’s higher than buyers are willing
to pay, said Eric Tracy of Janney Montgomery Scott LLC.  “There is a lot of opportunity on a standalone basis,”
Tracy, the Washington-based managing director of equity research
for the footwear and apparel industries, said in a phone
interview.  Hanes meets many of the financial criteria that private-equity firms typically seek and still offers a bargain price,
according to McKissack.  “The appeal is the steady cash flow generation
potential,” McKissack, whose firm oversees about $1.3 billion
including Hanes shares, said in a phone interview. “Although
the valuation has increased with improved performance, it’s
still not a high valuation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  