-- Bulger Jury Deliberates for Fourth Day in Trial of Ex-Crime Boss
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n   a n d   J a n e l l e   L a w r e n c e
-- 2013-08-09T14:54:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/bulger-jury-deliberates-for-fourth-day-in-trial-of-ex-crime-boss.html
A jury in  Boston  returned to court
for a fourth day of deliberations in the trial of former crime
boss James “Whitey” Bulger, who’s charged with running a vast
racketeering plot including 19 murders.  The group of eight men and four women was sent home
yesterday by U.S. District Judge Denise Casper after weighing
the case for a total of 20 hours over three days. The jury must
decide whether Bulger, 83, will spend the rest of his life
behind bars for crimes committed while he ran an Irish-American
criminal gang in South Boston from the 1970s to the early 1990s.  “Anyone familiar with the facts knew the day Bulger was
arrested that it was the last free day of his life,” said
Walter Prince, a lawyer at Prince Lobel Tye LLP who was an
assistant U.S. attorney in Boston from 1976 to 1980, when Bulger
was active in the city.  Bulger vanished in 1994 after receiving a tip from a
corrupt agent with the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  that he
was about to be charged. After 16 years on the run, he was
captured in 2011 in  Santa Monica ,  California . He now faces 48
charges of racketeering, conspiracy, murder, extortion and using
firearms, including machine guns, to carry out crimes.  “We’ve invested more than two years of work to get this
case ready for trial,” J.W. Carney, Bulger’s lawyer, said
yesterday. “The longer the jury stays out, the more it shows us
they are as conscientious a jury as I’ve ever seen.”  Family Members  Bulger, who wore jeans and a long-sleeved T-shirt in court
yesterday, appeared animated and relaxed in conversation with
his attorneys in the courtroom. A dozen family members of
Bulger’s alleged 19 victims also awaited the verdict.  Carney argued during the trial that Bulger is being blamed
for killings carried out by his former friends and associates --
the government’s star witnesses. The U.S. said the evidence
against Bulger is overwhelming and that he should remain locked
up.  Bulger’s crimes raised questions about the way some federal
agents wrongfully protected Bulger from local and state
authorities for years before he disappeared, letting him kill
and steal in exchange for tips about a bigger FBI target that he
was associated with, the Patriarca Family organized crime group.  The case is U.S. v. Weeks, 99-cr-10371, U.S. District
Court, District of  Massachusetts  (Boston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Larson in  New York  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net ;
Janelle Lawrence in federal court in Boston
at   jlawrence62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 