-- Caesars to Sell Macau Land to Pearl for $438 Million
-- B y   J o s h u a   F e l l m a n
-- 2013-08-09T19:52:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/caesars-to-sell-macau-land-to-pearl-for-438-million.html
Caesars Entertainment Corp. (CZR) , the U.S.
casino company saddled with $23.7 billion of debt, agreed to
sell a piece of land in  Macau  to Pearl Dynasty Investments Ltd.
for $438 million.  The Las Vegas-based company expects net proceeds of about
$420 million from the disposal, which it will use to fund
 capital expenditures  or buy back outstanding debt obligations,
it said in a filing today.  Caesars last year decided to sell the land after a five-year wait for government permission to build a casino in Macau.
The company, the largest owner of U.S. casinos, has been shut
out of Macau after lagging competitors in applying for a license
in the Chinese city. Gambling revenue in Macau is expected to
surge to $44.5 billion this year from $38 billion in 2012,
according to Deutsche Bank AG.  Caesars gained 4.2 percent to $18.35 at 3:21 p.m. in New
York, after earlier rising as much as 6.4 percent after
announcing the disposal. The stock has more than doubled this
year.  Six companies, including  Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS) ,  MGM Resorts
International (MGM)  and  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN)  now hold concessions and
operate casinos in Macau., The city opened to foreign firms
about a decade ago and is the only place in China where casinos
are legal.  The Macau government won’t issue any licenses for new U.S.
companies to operate casinos there, Caesars Chief Executive
Officer Gary Loveman said to investors and analysts in Las Vegas
in October.  Golf Course  Caesars bought a golf course there in 2007, prior to the
company’s 2008 buyout by Apollo Global Management LLC and TPG
Capital LLP, with the intent of developing a resort on the
property. The company paid $577 million for the land, the  Las
Vegas  Review Journal  reported .  The company said last month that its second-quarter net
loss narrowed to $212.2 million from $241.7 million a year
earlier, when it booked a $101 million impairment charge on the
value of its Macau land.  Caesars said today it expects the completion of the sale to
Pearl Dynasty to be completed in the fourth quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Fellman in New York at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  