-- Canada Pension Returns 1.1% as It Boosts Private Investments
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2013-08-09T19:12:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/canada-pension-returns-1-1-as-private-investments-drive-results.html
Canada Pension Plan Investment Board,
the country’s second-largest pension manager, reported a return
of 1.1 percent in the fiscal first quarter, lifted by private
global investments.  Investment income was C$1.9 billion ($1.84 billion) for the
three months ended June 30, the Toronto-based asset manager said
today in a statement. Assets rose 14 percent to C$188.9 billion
from the same period last year.  “Overall we would characterize the quarter as relatively
turbulent compared to recent reporting periods,” Chief
Executive Officer  Mark Wiseman , who assumed the role about one
year ago, said in the statement. ’’ Interest rates  rose
significantly as bond markets fell, while volatility increased
across major equity markets producing mixed returns.’’  The fund, which manages retirement savings for 18 million
people in every province except  Quebec , entered into joint
ventures with companies including Ivanhoe Cambridge Inc. for the
largest shopping center in Quebec’s eastern townships region.
The pension manager also acquired about a one-third interest in
Aliansce Shopping Centers S.A., one of  Brazil ’s top real estate
operators.  Canada Pension reduced its investments in equities to 49.5
percent of its portfolio, or C$93.5 billion, from 50.9 percent
in the year-ago period. Allocation to fixed income rose to 33.6
percent of overall investments from 32.7 percent. Real estate
and infrastructure investment climbed to 16.9 percent from 16.4
percent.  Canada Pension’s results beat the zero percent median
return for the Canadian pension funds in the three-month period,
according to Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Investor & Treasury
Services unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  