-- Catlin Falls After Missing Estimates on Higher Yields
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2013-08-09T10:45:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/catlin-falls-after-missing-estimates-on-higher-yields.html
Catlin Group Ltd. (CGL) , the second-largest
Lloyd’s of  London  insurer by market value, fell in London
trading after it reported lower-than-expected first-half
earnings, hurt by rising bond yields and catastrophe losses.  Catlin  fell  as much as 4.4 percent, the most since
February, and was down 1.1 percent to 483.7 pence at 11:42 a.m.
local time. Pretax profit dropped to $145 million from $231
million a year earlier, the Hamilton, Bermuda-based firm said in
a statement today. That missed the median $160 million estimate
of three analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Net investment income
decreased to $9 million from $83 million.  “Investment performance suffered due to mark-to-market
reductions in the value of our fixed-income portfolio caused by
rising interest rates,” Chief Executive Officer Stephen Catlin
said in the statement. “The decrease in profits before tax
compared with a year ago is the result of these movements.”  Catlin, which said its investments will benefit over the
longer term as rates rise, joins other Lloyd’s insurers that
have said this year’s bond slump is hurting returns. Longer-term
Treasuries have been the world’s worst-performing sovereign debt
this year after the Federal Reserve signalled it may start
phasing out bond purchases.  Beazley Plc (BEZ)  shares tumbled after it reported earnings that
missed estimates on July 23, hurt by bond-market losses that
“canceled out” profit made earlier in the year.  Underwriting Concerns  Catlin’s gross premiums written increased 10 percent to
$3.3 billion, while net earned premiums increased to $1.9
billion from $1.7 billion a year earlier.  The insurer’s combined ratio, or claims and expenses as a
percentage of premiums, worsened to 88.9 percent from 86.3
percent a year earlier. Losses and loss expenses increased to $1
billion from $882 million a year earlier, including $126 million
in catastrophe and large single-risk losses, according to the
statement.  Catlin, which was  hurt  by claims relating to  Hurricane
Sandy  and the wreck of the Costa Concordia cruise ship in  Italy ,
said average weighted premium rates for catastrophe-exposed
classes rose 0.4 percent.  “We continue to harbor concerns over Catlin’s underwriting
capabilities, with it typically experiencing outsized exposure
to major loss events and then often upwardly revising loss
estimates,” Mark Williamson, an analyst at Peel Hunt LLP in
London with a hold rating on the shares, wrote in a note today.
“Moreover, disclosure in respect of reserving is low, and this
adds to our caution.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in London at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  