-- Cemig to Invest $621 Million in Brazil Developer Renova
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2013-08-09T21:39:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/cemig-to-invest-621-million-in-brazil-developer-renova.html
Cia. Energetica de Minas Gerais ,
Brazil’s second-biggest power utility, agreed to invest 1.41
billion reais ($621 million) in the renewable-energy developer
 Renova Energia SA (RNEW11)  to boost its exposure to wind power.  Renova Energia will issue new voting shares that the
utility agreed to buy for 16.23 reais each, Cemig, as the
company is known, said yesterday in a statement.  Cemig and other Brazilian utilities  CPFL Energia SA (CPFE3)  and
 Tractebel Energia SA (TBLE3)  are seeking to focus more on wind power,
which complements Brazil’s hydroelectric dams, Vicente Koki, an
analyst at Portuguese lender  Caixa Geral de Depositos SA ’s Sao
Paulo office, said today in a telephone interview.  “Wind farms are an excellent way of reinforcing the
system,” he said. “During the dry season, when hydro dams run
low, the winds here are at their strongest.” Hydropower dams
generate about 70 percent of  Brazil ’s energy and low reservoirs
at the end of last year sparked concerns of an energy shortage.  Cemig will be part of a controlling group, along with Light
Energia SA and RR Participacoes, that will own at least 51
percent of Renova Energia once the deal is complete, according
to the statement.  Light SA (LIGT3)   agreed  to buy 26.2 percent of the
shares in Renova Energia in July 2011.  Renova Energia’s units, which each consist of one common
share and two preferred shares, rose for the first time in three
days, advancing 5.2 percent to 42.46 reais at the close in Sao
Paulo. Cemig declined 0.6 percent to 20.47 reais.  New Company  The purchase price, which now amounts to 50.71 reais a
unit, represents an “unjustified” premium of 25.6 percent over
yesterday’s closing price,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  said today in a
report. The premium is 60 percent over what Citibank values the
company.  Cemig and Renova Energia will also form a new company
called Chipley SP Participacoes SA. It will inherit a stake
Cemig agreed in June to take in the hydroelectric dam developer
Brasil PCH SA from state-run oil company Petroleo Brasileiro SA,
according to the statement.  Cemig was the first Brazilian utility to attach a wind farm
to the grid in 1994, the company said on its  website .  The company may be seeking to develop new generation assets
after it rejected an offer by the government to cut rates in
exchange for a renewal to its concessions to operate
hydroelectric plants, Koki said. Cemig  said  on Dec. 4 it
wouldn’t renew contracts to operate 18 hydro plants because the
terms were unfavorable.  “The company needs to invest to maintain cash flows,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  