-- Chill in U.S.-Russia Ties Prevails in Washington Talks
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-08-09T16:49:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/chill-in-u-s-russia-ties-arrives-before-washington-talks.html
Two days after President  Barack Obama 
canceled plans to meet Russian President  Vladimir Putin  in
Moscow next month, their foreign and defense ministers met in
Washington today in an effort to bridge differences.  Their agenda, which includes cooperation on  Afghanistan  and
the nuclear programs in  Iran  and  North Korea , as well as more
contentious issues such as human rights, missile defense, and
the Syrian conflict, has been overshadowed and perhaps derailed
by the spat over former National Security Agency contractor
Edward Snowden.  “It’s no secret that we’ve experienced some challenging
moments and obviously not just over the Snowden case,” U.S.
Secretary of State  John Kerry  said as he sat beside Russian
Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  at the State Department.  Lavrov, who cited progress that could have been made at the
summit, said the U.S. and Russia “need to work as grown-ups,
and this is what we’ll do and this needs to be reciprocal.”  The top diplomats were joined at today’s “two plus two”
talks by Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel and Defense Minister
Sergei Shoigu. The format was designed to take place in a way
that permitted real work to get done, said  Andrew Weiss , a
Russia specialist in former President  Bill Clinton ’s
administration.  Highlighting Differences  “These were talks that were intended to be about substance
and tee up progress, especially on missile defense,” said
Weiss, now a vice president at the Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace, a Washington policy group. “Now that these
talks are in the spotlight, there may be a propensity for Russia
to highlight its differences with the U.S.”  In the remarks before the four officials began closed-door
sessions, Lavrov outlined examples of cooperation the Russian
side had planned for the summit, including an economic
cooperation agreement that would have been adopted before
business leaders from both countries and a statement on
transparency for missile defenses.  “At least we were prepared to table our proposals to the
two presidents and we will do so once the summit meeting takes
place,” Lavrov said.  Lavrov also referred to Russia’s strong opposition to
“forced solutions” such as the 2011 U.S.-backed military
intervention in  Libya  that toppled President  Muammar Qaddafi , a
reason Russia has cited for its defense of Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad at the  United Nations . Violence in Libya has
increased.  Hockey Collisions  Kerry cited the need for cooperation on areas of shared
concern such as Afghanistan, Iran, North Korea and particularly
the war in  Syria .  “While Sergei and I do not always agree completely on
responsibility for the bloodshed or ways forward, both of us and
our countries agree that to avoid institutional collapse and
descent into chaos the ultimate answer is a negotiated political
solution,” Kerry said.  Noting that both he and Lavrov are old hockey players,
Kerry said, “We both know that diplomacy, like hockey, can
sometimes result in the occasional collision.”  With Obama publicly dismissing  Russia ’s tendency to slip
back into a “Cold War mentality” and Putin’s spokesman blaming
the U.S., analysts such as Dmitri Trenin are forecasting a cold
snap, although not a new cold war.  A Counter-Reset  Russia’s granting of asylum to Snowden -- who exposed top-secret NSA surveillance programs -- is the latest chill, causing
a break from Obama’s first-term attempt to “reset” U.S.-Russia
relations.  “The reset may be followed by something that can be called
a counter-reset, a U.S. policy of applying more pressure on
Russia,” Trenin, director of the Carnegie Moscow Center, a
policy group, wrote on the Carnegie website.  The reset was an attempt to make progress in areas of
cooperation between the U.S. and Russia while continuing work on
more difficult issues, such as Obama’s goal of deeper nuclear
arms reductions. It was based on practical agreements, not on a
shift in the underlying relationship, said Stephen Sestanovich,
a former U.S. ambassador-at-large to the  Soviet Union .  Those agreements included cooperation on supply routes into
Afghanistan for NATO and U.S. troops, unity on Iran sanctions,
and Russia’s accession to the  World Trade Organization . Once
Russia and the U.S. had checked off the list of issues on which
they were aligned, only negative elements remained, said
Sestanovich, now a senior fellow at the  Council on Foreign
Relations  in Washington.  Summit Not ‘Merited’  After Obama canceled his summit with Putin, saying he’ll
still attend the broader Group of 20 meeting Sept. 5-6 in  St.
Petersburg , White House spokesman  Jay Carney  made it clear this
week that the U.S. wants greater cooperation from Russia.  “We did not see on a range of fronts the kind of
sufficient progress on some of the major issues that we’re
engaging with the Russians on to merit a summit,” Carney told
reporters.  Russia’s decision to grant asylum to Snowden is just one of
many issues that have soured a relationship burdened by
historical mistrust. Russia’s defense of Syria’s Assad at the
United Nations and its insistence on continuing arms sales to
his regime have drawn U.S. criticism.  Russia, in turn, was angered by the U.S.-backed
intervention in Libya, a major buyer of Soviet arms under
Qaddafi. Since then, the U.S. has passed a law banning Russian
human-rights violators from entering the country, which Moscow
has condemned. Putin’s government retaliated by barring
Americans from adopting Russian orphans. In May, the Kremlin
publicized the capture of an alleged U.S. spy.  ‘Deeply Entrenched’  For the Russians, who want to project great-power status,
“the issues under discussion are so fraught,” Weiss said.
“The Russian side is so deeply entrenched, and all the
signals” on areas where the U.S. would like to cooperate “have
been of disagreement.”  Russia’s perspective was underscored by Lavrov’s comments
that the two nations “need to work as grown-ups.” Commentators
in Russia have described Obama’s summit cancellation as a
childish and emotional response.  The U.S. is strongly disillusioned as well, said
Sestanovich. Russia analysts such as Trenin attribute Obama’s
summit cancellation to domestic politics, particularly pressure
from members of Congress that he couldn’t ignore if he wants to
advance his domestic legislative priorities.  Pushing ‘Obstreperousness’  Sestanovich said that if that’s so, the Russians are
“missing a deeper consensus in the American administration
about how unproductive the relationship has become.”  “The Russians may not mull deeply on that,” he said,
“but at some point they’re going to have to ask themselves --
have we pushed this obstreperousness and negativity too far?”  If significant progress is to be made on core issues such
as missile defense, Syria, or arms reductions, it’s not likely
to happen in cabinet-level meetings such as today’s, Weiss said.  “No one will ever get promoted in the Russian system for
fixing some of these extraordinarily fraught political
problems,” he said. “That’s why summit meetings are so
important. If the U.S. and Russia are going to come to a deal on
things like missile defense, it’s going to be done by Putin and
Obama, and not by their staffs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in  Washington  at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  