-- China Finds Abuses Nearing $1 Billion in Affordable Housing Push
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-09T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/china-finds-abuses-nearing-1-billion-in-affordable-housing-push.html
A Chinese audit concluded that about
5.8 billion  yuan  ($947 million) was misappropriated from an
affordable-housing program that Premier  Li Keqiang  said would
provide a test of the government’s credibility.  Funds from 360 projects were diverted to pay back loans or
make outside investments, while money designated to pay for
demolitions was used to start other construction, the National
Audit Office said in a report posted on its  website  yesterday.  The five-month audit’s findings draw new scrutiny to a
program that was designed to reduce the risk of real-estate
bubbles and ease discontent among the poor. In February 2012,
when Li was vice premier, he called on the public to supervise
the government’s push to distribute affordable housing in a fair
way.  In 2012, the government invested 412.9 billion yuan in
affordable housing, while another 466.8 billion yuan came from
bank loans, bonds and other social financing, according to the
report. The real amount of money that was lost may be higher
than reported, Jinsong Du, a Hong Kong-based property analyst at
Credit Suisse Group AG, said in a phone interview.  “If there’s any surprise it should be that it’s so
small,” Du said of the abuses. “This is probably a deflated
number.”  Li’s predecessor as premier,  Wen Jiabao , pledged in 2011
that the government would build as many as 36 million
affordable-housing units within five years. The audit found that
38,900 units had been distributed in violation of the rules, and
abuses included people providing false information and families
receiving multiple houses.  Advertising Costs  In one case cited by the audit, a property company in the
Inner Mongolia city of Ordos spent money meant for affordable
housing on advertising and sales expenses for property projects.
The money was later returned, it said.  The report said local governments had paid “great
attention” to problems pointed out by the auditors.  “Overall, the situation is quite good, but the audit found
that there exist problems of violating the rules and substandard
management in some affordable-housing projects,” it said.  Before becoming premier in March, Li had championed
affordable housing as a way to stabilize the housing market and
boost supply.  “Fair distribution of the houses is the lifeblood for the
success and sustainable development of the program,” Li said in
February 2012, according to the official Xinhua News Agency.  Almost 20,000 auditors were deployed to 31 provinces from
November to March to check the program’s progress, yesterday’s
report said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  