-- China’s NQ Mobile Stakes Claim to U.S. Talent Via Texas
-- B y   B r u c e   E i n h o r n
-- 2013-08-09T04:35:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/china-s-nq-mobile-nabs-top-u-s-talent-in-dallas-tech-correct-.html
With an office set in a quiet
neighborhood a few miles from downtown  Dallas , there’s little to
suggest that  NQ Mobile Inc. (NQ)  is a foreign enterprise -- it’s
Chinese -- or that it’s home to one of oddest corporate
structures among technology companies.  Situated amid low-rise buildings, stylish restaurants and a
bike trail, the smartphone-security specialist’s workplace
features a game room, big-screen TVs tuned to ESPN and porches
with deck furniture for al fresco meetings,  Bloomberg
Businessweek  reports in its Aug. 12 issue.  The company has two global headquarters, in Dallas and
Beijing, and two chief executive officers: co-founder  Henry Lin 
in China and former Samsung Electronics Co. Chief Strategy
Officer Omar Khan, a  Massachusetts Institute of Technology 
graduate who moved to the U.S. from  Pakistan  when he was 10
months old. While most of the antivirus and anti-malware
company’s 400 employees work in Beijing and about 60 percent of
its revenue comes from China, the Dallas office has only three
Mandarin speakers.  “We didn’t want to be a subsidiary,” said Conrad Edwards,
NQ’s international marketing chief and another Samsung veteran.  Khan’s team manages software developers and user-experience
engineers in Beijing, where the company pays salaries that are a
quarter of what it would pay in the U.S., Khan said.  NQ’s shares, traded as an American depositary receipt on
the  New York  Stock Exchange, almost  doubled  in July, making NQ
one of the best-performing stocks on the  Bloomberg index  of 55
Chinese-owned companies listed in the U.S. The stock is up 175
percent this year.  Attracting Talent  By distancing itself from its Chinese roots, NQ’s goal is
to be better able to recruit U.S. technology talent. The company
may also be able to assuage the concerns of U.S. corporate
clients uneasy about buying privacy software from a country
known for its cyber-espionage activities.  Khan said he proposed the dual-CEO, dual-headquarters
 structure  as a means of speeding up partnerships with carriers
and retailers outside China. Lin said he agreed because doing
that job from Beijing would be too challenging.  “Maybe I could do it just by myself, but it would take a
long time for me to build relationships, to find talented people
one by one,” said Lin. “It’s a time issue, and the mobile
Internet moves so quickly.”  Lin, 36, started NQ in 2005 with $15,000 he and a high-school classmate cobbled together. He scored investments from
 Sequoia Capital , Qualcomm Inc. and Fidelity en route to an $89
million initial public offering in 2011. To expand the company
outside  China , he recruited Khan, who had just joined Citigroup
Inc. to run the bank’s worldwide mobile business.  U.S. Connections  Building business in the U.S. is a challenge for Chinese
technology companies. Huawei Technologies Co. and ZTE Corp., the
country’s two largest makers of telecommunications equipment,
have opened U.S. research centers and are working with small
carriers like MetroPCS to market low-cost smartphones, though
their U.S. presence remains modest.  Chinese TV manufacturer TCL Corp. in January signed an
accord for naming rights to the famous Grauman’s Chinese Theater
in Hollywood, yet is still largely unknown in the U.S.  Lenovo Group Ltd., the world’s largest personal-computer
maker, also had two headquarters after it acquired International
Business Machines Corp.’s desktop and laptop business in 2005.
It left the company’s chairman in China and installed its CEO in
the suburbs of Raleigh,  North Carolina . Lenovo scrapped that
arrangement in 2009, when the CEO resigned after a 22 percent
drop in regional revenue.  Wireless Partners  NQ has been moving its security software onto smartphones
from Verizon Wireless and Mexican telecommunications company
 America Movil SAB (AMX) , as well as marketing to consumers in retail
stores that sell phones for MetroPCS and Cricket.  “Having partners like the people in Dallas, and just being
able to meet them, has been helpful,” said Scott Moorehead, CEO
of Verizon retailer  the Cellular Connection . He said he doesn’t
know if he’d have cut a deal with a company based only in  Asia .  In June, NQ announced an accord with Target Corp. to
promote its security applications in 1,500 stores throughout the
U.S. In China, NQ on July 9 unveiled a deal with GE Healthcare
China to manage mobile services at one of its hospitals.  NQ also has a growing game business. Through its FL Mobile
division, NQ publishes games from China and  Korea , including
fantasy role-playing titles, casual puzzle and card games, and
the popular pet-raising simulator Gods and Dragons.  Mobile Games  The company last month unveiled an agreement to provide
titles to  China Mobile Ltd. (941) ’s game center. Chinese smartphone
and tablet users spent 5.4 billion  yuan  ($880 million) on games
last year, and they’re on track to spend double that this year,
data compiled by Bloomberg Industries show.  NQ’s global sales, which came in at $92 million last year,
are  projected  to grow to $182 million in 2013 and $247 million
next year, the average analyst estimate compiled by Bloomberg.  It remains to be seen whether a Chinese company selling
privacy and anti-hacking software can win over U.S. consumers.
Frederick Ziegel, an analyst at Topeka Capital Markets, said one
tack is to make NQ’s branding less Chinese -- before it was FL
Mobile, the game business was called Feiliu. NQ is short for
NetQin, referring to the dynasty that built the Great Wall.  With more than 400 million registered users and a growing
list of deals with wireless service companies, smartphone makers,
and retailers in both hemispheres, NQ is exploring ventures
beyond security and games, including mobile e-commerce, search
on wireless devices and other services. Other companies are
snapping up promising mobile outfits in China, and NQ’s success
is making it the subject of acquisition buzz.  In Dallas, though, co-CEO Khan said NQ is sticking to its
plan and that he and Lin will stay where they are.  “We are not building the company to pretty it up for a
sale,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bruce Einhorn in  Hong Kong  at 
 beinhorn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeff Muskus at 
 jmuskus@bloomberg.net  