-- China Money Rate Drops for Second Week as PBOC Adds Cash
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-09T09:05:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/china-money-rate-drops-for-second-week-as-pboc-adds-cash.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
dropped for a second week as the central bank added funds to the
financial system using open-market operations.  The People’s Bank of China  injected  a net 20 billion  yuan 
($3.3 billion) this week, compared with 136 billion yuan in the
five days ended Aug. 2. The central bank issued seven-day
reverse-repurchase contracts at 4 percent on Aug. 6, and 14-day
reverse repos at 4.1 percent on Aug. 8. Both rates were 40 basis
points lower than at last week’s auctions. M2, the broadest
measure of  money supply , rose 14.5 percent last month, the PBOC
reported today, beating the median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey for a 13.9 percent advance.  The  seven-day repurchase rate , a gauge of cash availability
in the banking system, fell 68 basis points this week to 3.66
percent in Shanghai, according to a weighted average compiled by
the National Interbank Funding Center. The rate climbed to a
record 12.45 percent on June 20 as policy makers engineered a
cash crunch to address risks in the financial system.  “It looks like money-market rates will stay around the
current level after the PBOC lowered the reverse-repo rates but
at the same time reduced the amount of injection,” said Becky Liu, a senior rates strategist at Standard Chartered Plc in  Hong
Kong . “It’s going to be higher than the levels before the June
crunch, but capped by open-market operations.”  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repo rate, fell two basis points
this week to 3.88 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It was unchanged today.  Inflation Data  China’s consumer prices climbed 2.7 percent in July from a
year earlier, matching June’s gain, according to government data
released today. That was less than the median 2.8 percent
increase forecast in a Bloomberg survey of economists. Producer
prices dropped 2.3 percent, falling for the 17th month in a row.  “Inflation is likely to stay lower for longer, with
overall growth momentum likely to remain weak in the next few
months,” Liu said. “The continuing weakness in PPI suggests
continued pressure on demand.”  The yield on the government’s 3.38 percent bonds due May
2023 fell one basis point to 3.86 percent today, retreating from
a seven-week high, according to prices from the Interbank
Funding Center. The rate increased 13 basis points this week.  China’s industrial production gained 9.7 percent last month,
exceeding the median forecast of 8.9 percent in a Bloomberg News
survey of 47 economists, data showed today.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in  Shanghai  at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  