-- China July Car Sales Gain 10.5% on Wider Dealer Discounts
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-09T07:00:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/china-auto-sales-rise-10-5-in-july-as-carmakers-raise-discounts.html
China ’s passenger-vehicle sales rose
10.5 percent in July as automakers increased production and
dealerships offered discounts to clear inventory.  Wholesale deliveries of cars, multipurpose and sport
utility vehicles climbed to 1.24 million units last month,
according to the state-backed China Association of Automobile
Manufacturers today. That beat the median estimate of 1.22
million units by six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “There is an element of push from automakers,” said Ole Hui, a Hong Kong-based analyst with  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) 
“They have all increased capacity and therefore have the
incentive to push for more volumes and use more discounting.”  Ford Motor Co.,  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  and Volvo Cars are
among automakers that have opened assembly plants in China this
year. Companies are stepping up production to cater to demand in
the world’s largest vehicle market, where sales are projected to
exceed 20 million units this year and 30 million by the end of
the decade, according to association estimates.  An index tracking vehicle inventory levels in China fell to
53.2 in July from 56.1 a month earlier, remaining above the 50-point mark that demarcates a “reasonable” level of stockpile,
according to the China Automobile Dealers Association this week.  Dealers are introducing discounts and holding promotions
including for group purchases to reduce stockpiles, the trade
group said.  Vehicle Restrictions  Total sales of vehicles, including buses and trucks, gained
9.9 percent to 1.52 million units last month, the association
said. In the first seven months of the year, 12.3 million
vehicles were delivered, putting sales on track to exceed the 20
million units estimated by the association.  Obstacles to growth are sprouting. Two cities, Tianjin and
Wuhan, are considering vehicle purchase restrictions to reduce
pollution and alleviate traffic congestion. Four cities,
including Beijing and  Shanghai , already have vehicle ownership
curbs.  China’s auto association is firmly opposed to the “simple
method” of vehicle purchase curbs to reduce air pollution,
secretary general Dong Yang said in a briefing in Beijing.  Sales of SUVs, the fastest-growing segment in the first
half of this year, rose 45 percent to 235,000 units. Sedan
deliveries gained 7 percent to 840,400 vehicles.  The Ford Focus was the best-selling sedan last month, with
 Great Wall Motor Co. (2333) ’s Haval line remaining the nation’s top-selling SUV.  U.S. automakers gained market share versus Japanese brands,
which continued to falter in China 10 months after nationwide
protests broke out over  Japan ’s nationalization of a group of
uninhabited islands in the East China Sea.  GM, the biggest foreign automaker in China, said sales in
the country rose 11 percent to 221,580 units last month, led by
demand for Buick cars. At  Ford Motor Co. (F) , sales climbed 71
percent to 72,834 units in July.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and  Honda
Motor Co. (7267)  both reported declines in China sales last month.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Alexandra Ho in Shanghai at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net ;
Penny Peng in Beijing at 
 ppeng18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  