-- China Metal Paid Out Funds Before Liquidators Appointed
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2013-08-09T06:38:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/china-metal-paid-out-funds-before-liquidators-appointed.html
The provisional liquidators of  China
Metal Recycling Holdings Ltd. (773)  said the company paid out more
than HK$1 billion ($129 million) in the two weeks before their
appointment.  The funds were paid to parties including some of the
companies the liquidators have sued for damages, Douglas Lam, a
lawyer for the liquidators, told Hong Kong’s High Court today.  The liquidators, appointed last month at the request of the
city’s Securities and Futures Commission, claim China Metal’s
founding chairman, his wife and 10 companies orchestrated false
trading schemes, disclosed false or misleading information to
China Metal and paid dividends on inflated profit.  “There’s no evidence whatsoever related to the claims for
the moment” against Chun’s wife Lai Wun Yin, her lawyer Victor
Joffe told the court today. Judge Jason Pow agreed to
discontinue an injunction against Lai.  The liquidators obtained an injunction on July 30 freezing
more than HK$1.6 billion of the defendants’ assets. Wellrun
Ltd., through which Chun holds his stake in China Metal, has
objected to the regulator’s application for liquidation.  Alexander Lee, a solicitor representing Chun and Wellrun,
declined to comment today on behalf of his clients.  China Metal, which described itself as the nation’s biggest
scrap-metal dealer, inflated the size of its business to gain a
listing in Hong Kong in 2009, the regulator said July 29. China
Metal falsified a majority of purchases from its three major
suppliers from 2007 to 2009, the regulator said.  Shares of China Metal traded in Hong Kong have been
suspended since January.  Chun and Lai founded the company in 2000, according to the
company’s website.  The cases are China Metal Recycling Holdings Ltd. and Chun
Chi Wai, HCA1412/2013 and Securities and Futures Commission and
China Metal Recycling, HCCW 210/2013, both in Hong Kong’s Court
of First Instance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  