-- China H-Shares to Drop 30% in 2013, Societe Generale Says
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2013-08-09T04:46:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/china-h-shares-to-drop-30-in-2013-societe-generale-says.html
Chinese  companies  traded on the Hong
Kong stock market will slide the most in five years in 2013 as
an economic slowdown weighs on profits and banks curtail credit,
according to Societe Generale SA.  The Hang Seng  China  Enterprises Index will drop to 8,000 by
year-end, said Guy Stear, Hong Kong-based head of Asia research
at Societe Generale. That’s 16 percent below yesterday’s close
and would extend the gauge’s 2013 decline to 30 percent, the
biggest tumble since 2008. China’s  manufacturing  will contract
this year, while bad loans will keep rising until late 2014,
Stear said.  “Short-term cyclical declines and credit pressures are the
two factors which make us negative about Chinese equities,”
Stear said in an interview on Aug. 7. “When non-performing
loans start to go up that’s going to be something that weighs
quite seriously on the equity market.”  The H-share gauge slumped 17 percent this year through
yesterday as growth slowed in the world’s second-biggest economy
and the government spurred a credit crunch in June by clamping
down on risky lending. China’s gross domestic product will rise
7.5 percent in 2013, which would match the government’s target
and be the weakest increase since 1990, according to economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Non-performing loans at lenders including  Industrial &
Commercial Bank of China Ltd.  rose 20 percent to 526.5 billion
 yuan  ($86 billion) on March 31 from a year earlier, accounting
for 0.96 percent of total lending, China Banking Regulatory
Commission data show.  Borrowing Costs  The People’s Bank of China injected 20 billion yuan ($3.3
billion) of liquidity this week, compared with 136 billion yuan
in the five days ended Aug. 2. Reverse-repurchase agreements
have been auctioned for the first time since February to
alleviate a funding squeeze that saw a measure of interbank
lending in June surging the most in seven years. A crackdown on
illegal capital inflows and shadow banking, as well as measures
to cool home prices, have contributed to increased borrowing
costs.  Recent manufacturing and services data showing signs of
improvement in the economy is a “temporary blip in a trend
which is still unfortunately going lower,” Stear said. “It
would be very difficult to believe that we’re having a cyclical
economic recovery in the midst of the credit issue. I can’t
think of a single case in any economy where that’s been the
case.”  Manufacturing unexpectedly strengthened in July, while the
services industry accelerated for the first time since March,
signs of stabilization amid a two-quarter slowdown in economic
growth. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  yesterday traded
at 7.09 times estimated earnings, compared with 13 times for the
MSCI Asia Pacific Index.  Although Stear is bearish on H-shares for the rest of 2013,
he sees potential for outsized gains next year as attractive
valuations draw investors back into the stocks.  “As we get into the end of this year there’s going to be
great opportunity to buy,” he said. “Many investors are fairly
negative about the Chinese equity market, which means that the
bounce, when it comes, could be quite impressive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  