-- China July Home Sales Fall 17% as Property Curbs Take Toll
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-09T08:03:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/china-july-home-sales-fall-17-as-property-curbs-take-toll.html
China ’s home sales transaction value
fell 17 percent in July from the previous month, as the
country’s property curbs damped buying sentiment.  The  value of homes  sold dropped to 516.5 billion  yuan  ($84
billion) last month from 624.4 billion yuan in June, based on
the difference between the National Statistics Bureau’s data for
the first seven months and first half of the year. Housing sales
from January to July were up 40 percent to 3.34 trillion yuan
from the same period a year earlier, according to the data.  Home sales slowed after buyers rushed to the market earlier
this year before the government stepped up a three-year campaign
to cool home prices in March, with the capital city of Beijing
among 35 provincial-level cities issued the toughest measures.  “July traditionally is a low season for property sales,
while the effect of the liquidity squeeze in June is still
having an impact on the market,” Dai Fang, a Shanghai-based
property analyst at Zheshang Securities Co., said in a telephone
interview today. “It takes longer for buyers to get mortgages,
which has damped sentiment.”  Investment in homes, office buildings, malls and other real
estate gained 21 percent to 4.43 trillion yuan in the first
seven months, compared with a 15 percent increase for the same
period a year earlier, the statistics bureau said in a statement
on its website today. New construction rose 8.4 percent to 1.13
billion square meters (12 billion square feet).  An  index  tracking property shares on the  Shanghai Composite
Index (SHCOMP)  fell 0.6 percent at the close of trading, the biggest loss
among five industry groups on the benchmark, compared with a 0.4
percent advance by the index.  China may expand a property tax trial to as many as six
cities including Hangzhou and Nanjing, China Securities Journal
reported today, citing Yang Hongxu, deputy head of E-House China
R&D Institute.  Home sales volume rose 27 percent in the first seven months
from last year to 547.5 million square meters, the government
data showed today. Property sales value including office
buildings and retail space climbed 38 percent to 3.95 trillion
yuan from a year ago.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  