-- China Builds All in Changsha Rail to Top-Tower Projects
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-09T08:53:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/china-builds-all-it-buys-for-changsha-from-rail-to-biggest-tower.html
Yang Feng takes a drink from his
water bottle as he rests in the shade of a tree near the foot of
the Poly International Plaza building where he’s installing
lights on the roof of the $653-million real estate development
in the central Chinese city of Changsha.  From his perch atop a 150-meter (492 feet) residential
tower, he can make out workers rushing to complete a tunnel
project under the city’s Xiangjiang River that will cost 1.3
billion  yuan  ($212 million). About 30 minutes’ drive away,
preparatory work has begun on what a local company says will be
the tallest building in the world, with 202 floors. And China
Development Bank Corp., the state lender, has pledged 14.25
billion yuan for completion of an intercity rail line connecting
Changsha with other cities in Hunan province.  “Changsha isn’t as shiny as Guangzhou or Shenzhen during
the night yet, but this will change,” said Yang, 26, referring
to two cities in the southern coastal area that powered China’s
industrial boom and where he worked for almost a decade.
“Changsha will look like these places very soon with all the
high-rise buildings.”  In this city of seven million people, where Mao Zedong went
to college,  China ’s model of investment-driven growth funded by
bank lending, bond issuance and land sales remains in force,
even as Premier Li Keqiang tries to craft a new blueprint for
expansion powered by consumption and private enterprise.
Underscoring financial risks that prompted Li to order an urgent
nationwide government debt audit, a local financing company
raising money for Changsha’s tunnel says its ability to generate
revenue is low.  White House  Officials from the National Audit Office began fanning out
across the country Aug. 1. The last time they did so, in 2011,
they discovered local governments had racked up liabilities of
10.7 trillion yuan to fund a building binge that included
expressways, stadiums and a colonnaded government office in one
Hunan city nicknamed the “White House” by locals.  Just two years later, the total might have surged as much
as 40 percent. The current combined outstanding debt of local
government financing vehicles is 14 trillion yuan to 15 trillion
yuan, or about 30 percent of gross domestic product,  Standard
Chartered Plc (STAN)  analysts estimated in a research note last month.  “Fundamentally we still have the story that these projects
aren’t going to pay back the money and the government isn’t
going to pay back the money without selling assets,” said
Stephen Green, head of Greater China research at Standard
Chartered in Hong Kong. “A lot of these loans are being
extended or rolled over, so you push the problems into the
future.”  Mao Poem  Along the Xiangjiang River, which gained national
prominence after Mao described it in a poem, factories and old
residential blocks have been flattened to make way for new
towers. Real estate projects with names such as Grand Riverside,
Fisherman’s Wharf and Brilliant Bay are rising from the banks.  Total fixed-asset investment in Changsha in the first half
of the year was 217.75 billion yuan, an 18.1 percent increase,
according to the Changsha statistics bureau. In the first half
of 2012, total fixed-asset investment was 190.05 billion yuan,
an increase of 21.9 percent.  While economic growth in Changsha slowed to 11.6 percent in
the first half of the year from 12.9 percent in 2012, projects
that were delayed like the intercity rail line are now getting
fresh funding. Construction that was under way a year ago on a
station for a high-speed train from Beijing to Guangzhou has
been completed. So has work on a bridge in the city that will
support another high-speed train from  Shanghai  to Kunming,
south-west of Changsha.  Borrowing Squeeze  Home prices in the city were up 6.9 percent in June from
the same time a year ago, according to SouFun Holdings Ltd.,
China’s biggest real estate website owner, which tracks 100
cities. Sales of property by floor area in the first half of the
year rose 31.3 percent from a year earlier, according to the
city’s statistics bureau.  Even so, efforts by national policy makers to rein in
 borrowing growth  will pose a constraint on local authorities,
said Yao Wei, China economist at Societe Generale SA in Hong
Kong. “The room for investment-driven growth is increasingly
limited,” she said.  The  People’s Bank of China  in June engineered a cash
squeeze to pressure state-owned lenders to improve their
liquidity. Thousands of financing vehicles set up by local
governments -- sidestepping rules banning them from directly
borrowing from banks and selling bonds -- will come under
scrutiny in the national audit.  Tallest Building  Efforts to slow lending haven’t deterred Zhang Yue, the
chairman and president of Broad Group, who is planning to erect
the world’s tallest building in Changsha. The 838-meter-high
structure, which the company says will be completed by April
2014, will house 30,000 people and include a school, hospital,
amusement park and 720-square-meter swimming pool on the 202nd
floor, according to the company’s website.  Plans for the skyscraper -- which would eclipse the 828-meter Burj Khalifa in Dubai as the world’s tallest -- are behind
schedule. Broad Group announced in June last year that the
project would be completed by January 2013.  China’s official Xinhua News Agency reported July 25 that
the development had yet to receive approval. A day later, a
spokeswoman for Broad Group, which makes air-conditioners, said
in an interview the company had obtained permission for the
project.  ‘Granted Billions’  Facing criticism in local media and on social networking
sites over his Sky City plan, Zhang said in comments e-mailed to
reporters on July 31 that there was no reason to doubt “the
cash flow” for the project. “For many years, every year, Broad
was granted billions in credit lines from major banks, and we
haven’t used a penny yet from these credit lines,” he wrote.  At the planned site, Zhu Jinwei is mixing cement that he
said will be used in laying water pipes for the project. “I
have no idea whether the world’s tallest building will stand
here,” said Zhu, 59, who worked for 15 years in a Shenzhen toy
factory until he lost his job last summer. “But one thing is
for sure -- I don’t plan to live in it. I don’t have the
money.”  At a nearby property development, a sales slogan scrolls
across an LED screen above the entrance: “Be the neighbor of
the world’s tallest building,” it reads. Signs for Hugo Boss AG
and  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  hang outside stores that are still being
built.  Catching Up  “Hunan is trying to catch up with the coastal areas,”
said Liu Xianfeng, a researcher at the Hunan Academy of Social
Sciences, a local government research agency in Changsha.
“Investment-driven growth can continue here and the growth rate
in central and western China will be stronger for the coming
years.”  Changsha’s growth isn’t being driven solely by
infrastructure spending and real estate.  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  is
building a new factory in the city with an annual capacity of
about 300,000 vehicles that is scheduled for completion by the
end of 2015. Want Want China Holdings Ltd., a Shanghai-based
maker of rice crackers and dairy products, is investing 2
billion yuan to expand production in Changsha, according to the
local government website.  The city has expanded by almost a million people over the
past decade as farmers have abandoned their land for jobs in
urban areas. With export-driven job gains slowing on the coast,
workers like Yang and Zhu are relocating inland.  “Everyone living in the city can see the reason why we
need subways,” Liu said, referring to Changsha’s congested
roads.  ‘Huge Engine’  The swelling population of Changsha supports Li’s drive for
urbanization as a “huge engine” for the world’s second-largest
economy, with almost half the population still outside of
cities. The government announced July 24 it will speed up
railway construction with a focus on the central and western
parts of the country. Li was quoted by Xinhua telling a meeting
of the State Council that building railways brings “multiple
benefits” as it promotes urbanization and stabilizes growth.  The construction offers a source of expansion as other
parts of the economy shrink. The government last month ordered
more than 1,400 companies in 19 industries to eliminate excess
production capacity by the end of the year.  Slower Growth  Li and President Xi Jinping, who completed their succession
as China’s leaders in March, have signaled they’re willing to
endure slower growth. At the same time, Li has identified 7
percent as the “bottom line” rate for the nation. China’s
exports and industrial output rose more than estimated in July,
adding to signs the economy is stabilizing.  While the central government has tightened access to
credit, the Hunan provincial government on May 27 signed
agreements with China Development Bank for 85.25 billion yuan in
loans. Besides the intercity rail project, the funds will also
go to build roads.  The tunnel under the Xiangjiang River is being funded with
the help of bonds issued by Changsha-based Chengtou Group, a
financing vehicle for the local government. Chengtou sold 1.8
billion yuan of seven-year, 6.95 percent bonds in April, of
which 700 million yuan is for the tunnel.  Land Sales  Chengtou had a liability-to-asset ratio of 60.14 percent at
the end of 2012, down from 66.72 percent at the end of 2011,
thanks to the injection of land assets into the vehicle,
according to an audit report last month by  GF Securities Co
Ltd. (000776) , the underwriter of Chengtou Group’s bonds, published on
the website of China’s interbank bond market. The company’s
cash-generating abilities from its operations are “still
relatively low” and the company has to rely on fundraising to
cover cash needs, the brokerage said.  Like other local governments across China, Changsha has
raised money by requisitioning land from farmers and selling it
to property developers at a higher price.  The city’s non-budget revenue rose 62.8 percent to 19.7
billion yuan in the first six months of 2013, according to the
Changsha statistics bureau. Land sales would have been the
source for much of that revenue, said Chen Sheng, executive dean
of Shanghai-based China Real Estate Data Academy, a research
group.  “Some infrastructure projects, like an intercity railway
in Changsha, may make sense, especially when they are financed
by cheap funds from a state development bank and hopefully one
day the project can make money apart from its social benefits,”
said Tao Dong, head of Asia economics excluding  Japan  at Credit
Suisse Group AG in Hong Kong. “But many other government
projects are borrowing money at interest of 11 percent or 12
percent, and they may not be commercially viable.”  ‘No Choice’  In the Wangcheng district, where the Sky City project is
planned, units are on sale in at least 50 newly developed real
estate projects, according to a website run by Changsha’s
property authority. Some of the buildings occupy land that was
once paddy fields and lotus ponds.  Rows of buildings are going up along the route of the
intercity rail line. A drive down an adjacent dusty road leads
to dozens of desolate villas and townhouses that have no doors
or windows. A worker at a cement distribution point at the site,
who declined to give his name, said the homes had never been
filled and were scheduled for demolition to make way for new
buildings.  At the Poly International Plaza site, Yang is counting on
Changsha’s construction boom to keep going. He left his job on
the coast and moved to the city even though it meant taking a
pay cut.  “I had no choice,” he said. “My boss is shifting his
focus to this place because it has more work. I had to follow.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  