-- Christie Voter Win Replicated With Investors: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e   a n d   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2013-08-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/christie-voter-win-replicated-with-investors-muni-credit.html
Governor  Chris Christie ’s post-Hurricane Sandy leadership has won over New Jersey voters as he
heads toward re-election. Now he’s gaining fans in the $3.7
trillion municipal-bond market.  The state’s relative borrowing costs have shrunk 70 percent
since the Republican took office in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Barclays Plc data show its securities are
beating those of nearby New York and  Connecticut . Christie, 50,
has won legislative approval to overhaul government-worker
pensions and benefits, and earned praise for his handling of the
Oct. 29 storm, which he has said will cost $36.9 billion to
repair and prevent future damage.  Christie, a potential 2016 candidate for president, has
said that rebuilding from Sandy will determine whether he wins a
second term as governor in November. He led his Democratic
challenger, state Senator Barbara Buono, by 28 percentage points
in a Quinnipiac University poll released yesterday, with support
from almost a third of the voters in the opposing party.  “Investors see somebody who has a handle on the
problems,” said Jamie Iselin, who helps manage $9 billion of
munis, including  New Jersey  debt, at Neuberger Berman Group LLC
in New York. “And through his ability to articulate them and
his political skills, has been able to begin the process of
addressing the challenges that the state faces.”  Beating Neighbors  “He’s really somebody at the forefront of doing that and
that has inspired confidence in investors,” Iselin said.  Since Christie took office on Jan. 19, 2010, debt sold by
New Jersey issuers has earned an annualized rate of 4.24
percent, more than 3.83 percent for New York and 3.07 percent
for Connecticut, according to Barclays data. The broader
municipal market has gained 4.22 percent.  In New Jersey,  tax revenue  is increasing every year under
Christie, though at a slower pace than he had anticipated. The
state will collect a record $32.8 billion in the fiscal year
ending June 30, 2014, according to the governor’s projections.  For the year ended June 30, Christie had to revise revenue
forecasts as collections fell short. He initially proposed
revenue of $31.7 billion and lowered that to $31.3 billion and
again to $31.2 billion.  ‘Too Aggressive’  Standard & Poor’s  has had a negative outlook on New
Jersey’s debt since September because of doubts about Christie’s
projections.  “They’ve probably been a little too aggressive in
forecasting revenue growth and that kind of hurt them with the
rating agencies,” said  Paul Brennan , who helps manage $90
billion of munis, including $1 billion in New Jersey-focused
mutual funds, at Chicago-based Nuveen Asset Management.  The major credit-rating companies each lowered New Jersey’s
grade by one level since Christie took office, ranking the state
three steps below top-rated munis. Moody’s Investors Service and
S&P assess New York one level higher. S&P grades Connecticut one
step above New Jersey.  Investors have purchased lower-rated securities for their
higher relative yields after  interest rates  fell to historic
lows at the end of 2012, which has helped New Jersey earn more
than its neighbors, Brennan said. While yields on 20-year
general-obligation bonds jumped to  4.77 percent  last month, the
highest since April 2011, the interest rate is still below a 52-year average of 5.88 percent, according to a Bond Buyer index.  Less Yield  New Jersey has “performed better on a relative basis
because of the compressing yield premiums, which has pushed the
bonds to perform even better relative to those other
borrowers,” Brennan said.  Investors are demanding less additional yield to buy the
state’s debt.  New Jersey last sold general-obligation bonds on May 1,
with 10-year debt priced at a 1.89 percent yield, 0.1 percentage
point more than benchmark munis, Bloomberg data show. That’s
down from a yield difference of 0.35 percentage point on 10-year
general-obligation bonds that priced Dec. 8, 2009, the last such
deal before Christie took office.  “Governor Christie’s pension reforms and budget discipline
have given investors greater confidence in New Jersey’s long-term economic prospects,”  William Quinn , spokesman for
Treasurer Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff, said in an e-mail.  Pension Woes  New Jersey’s 2012 per-capita income of $53,628 was third
among U.S. states behind Connecticut and  Massachusetts , Commerce
Department data show. Yet the state faces high retirement
obligations and debt levels.  Its net pension liabilities total $63.2 billion, the fifth-highest, and represent 137 percent of governmental revenue,
according to Moody’s. Gross tax-supported debt of $41.6 billion
is third-highest, according to the ratings company.  Yet Christie, like Democratic Governor  Jerry Brown  in
 California , has slowed the pace of borrowing after New Jersey
debt more than doubled over a decade under the Republican’s
predecessors. The rate of growth was 1.94 percent in fiscal
2012, the lowest since fiscal 2007, according to Quinn.  This year, New Jersey and its issuers are fourth in
borrowing among states, after California,  Texas  and  New York ,
Bloomberg data show.  New Jersey’s borrowing plans for this year include $849
million in Transportation Trust Fund Authority bonds later this
month and $375 million in Building Authority debt in November,
according to Quinn.  Jobless Challenge  New Jersey tied with  Michigan  for the sixth-highest jobless
rate, at  8.7 percent  in June. While that is down from 9.7
percent the month before Christie took office, it is 1.1
percentage point above June’s national rate and higher than
neighboring New York, Connecticut and  Pennsylvania .  “Pressures still remain because they haven’t had as much
success growing the economy” as other states have, Brennan
said.  In the week ahead, California is set to sell $5.5 billion
of notes, the year’s biggest short-term municipal borrowing.  In the long-term market, the Dormitory Authority of the
State of New York leads issuers selling about $4 billion.  The local governments are selling with yields on benchmark
10-year munis close to the highest this month. At  2.89 percent ,
the interest rate compares with about  2.59 percent  for similar-maturity Treasuries.  The  ratio  of the two yields, a gauge of relative value, is
about 112 percent, compared with an average of 93 percent since
2001. The higher the figure, the cheaper munis are compared with
their federal counterparts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net ;
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  