-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Rise Most Since June; Caesars Risk Eases
-- B y   S c o t t   H a r r i s o n
-- 2013-08-09T21:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/credit-swaps-in-u-s-rising-most-since-june-caesars-risk-eases.html
A gauge of U.S. company credit risk
recorded the biggest weekly rise in almost two months amid
concern the Federal Reserve may start curbing stimulus later
this year. The cost to protect against a default by  Caesars
Entertainment Corp. (CZR)  dropped.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, added 2.5
basis points this week to a mid-price of 75.2 at 4:32 p.m. in
New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the
largest increase for a comparable five-day period since the
measure climbed 9.9 basis points in the period ended June 21.  The Fed is debating when to start trimming $85 billion in
monthly bond buying that has kept borrowing costs low and
bolstered credit markets. Four central bank officials indicated
this week greater willingness to begin paring the Fed’s debt-purchasing program, citing confidence the economy is
strengthening.  “Tapering has to be on investors’ minds,” Robert Grimm,
head of corporate trading at Odeon Capital Group LLC in New
York, said in a telephone interview. “Everybody thinks that is
the big elephant in the room. It’s going to happen but it’s only
a question of when and how quickly.”  The credit-swaps index typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Caesars Swaps  Caesars credit risk declined after the company agreed to
sell a piece of land in Macau to Pearl Dynasty Investments Ltd.
for $438 million, according to a regulatory filing.  Credit swaps tied to the debt of Caesars fell 1.1
percentage points to 54.2 percent upfront, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw Hill Financial Inc. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market. That’s in addition to 5 percent a year, meaning it would
cost $5.42 million initially and $500,000 annually to protect
$10 million of Caesars’s bonds for five years.  Las Vegas-based Caesars expects net proceeds of about $420
million from the sale, which it will use to fund capital
expenditures or buy back outstanding debt obligations, it said
in the filing.  The trailing 12-month global speculative-grade default rate
rose to 2.9 percent in July from 2.8 percent the prior month,
according to a report by Moody’s Investors Service dated
yesterday.  Default Rate  Moody’s forecasts the figure to end 2013 at 3 percent
before falling to 2.5 percent in July 2014, the report said.
Forty-three corporate issuers have defaulted this year.  Dallas Fed President Richard Fisher said this week that
it’s timely for U.S. central bankers to begin moderating record
monetary stimulus as the economy continues to improve. Chicago
Fed President Charles Evans said he wouldn’t rule out a decision
to start dialing back the purchases at the Sept. 17-18 Federal
Open Market Committee meeting.  The default premium on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index, a measure of speculative-grade corporate debt risk,
rose 16.9 basis points this week to 379.2 basis points, the
biggest climb since 48.6 basis points in the period ended June
21, Bloomberg prices show. A basis point is 0.01 percentage
point.  The average relative yield investors demand to hold
investment-grade corporate bonds rather than similar-maturity
Treasuries increased 1.3 basis points to 129.2 basis points,
Bloomberg data show. The measure for speculative-grade debt
widened 0.1 basis point to 567.2 basis points.  High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
and less than BBB- at Standard & Poor’s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Harrison in New York at 
 sharrison52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  