-- Credit Suisse Cuts Equity Holdings on Fed Tapering Talk
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-08-09T13:52:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/credit-suisse-cuts-equity-holdings-on-fed-tapering-talk.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  cut its
holdings of equities as global stocks rallied to a five-year
high and Federal Reserve policy makers began considering whether
to trim stimulus measures.  Switzerland ’s second-largest bank reduced its allocation to
stocks to neutral from overweight, meaning it no longer holds
more of the asset class than is represented in global
benchmarks, according to a report dated Aug. 5. The MSCI World
Index of developed-market shares has surged 14 percent this year
and closed at the highest level since May 2008 last week.  “The fundamental environment remains attractive, but the
markets are overbought in the wake of the recent rally,”
Michael Strobaek, the Zurich-based global chief investment
officer at Credit Suisse, wrote in the report. The “combination
of a positive economic outlook and a further supportive monetary
policy seems largely priced into the markets. We therefore see
limited upside in the near term,” he wrote.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in testimony to the Joint
Economic Committee of Congress on May 22 that the central bank’s
pace of bond buying will slow if the employment outlook
“improves in a real and sustainable way.” On June 19, he said
the Fed may start reducing stimulus this year and end debt
purchases in mid-2014 if the economy grows as forecast.  “The process of returning  interest rates  back to normal
has just begun,” Strobaek wrote. “This tends to signify a
tough environment for bonds and a potential advantage for
stocks. From a tactical standpoint, though, stocks look poised
to enter a temporary consolidation stage, so we have accordingly
increased our cash allocation.”  Fisher, Lockhart  Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher  said on Aug. 5 the
central bank is closer to slowing bond buying and warned
investors not to rely on stimulus. A decision to start dialing
back the purchases could be taken as soon as the Sept. 17-18
gathering of the  Federal Open Market Committee , Chicago Fed
President  Charles Evans  said on Aug. 6.  Credit Suisse mostly sold European stocks, according to
Adrian Zuercher, the bank’s Hong Kong-based global strategist,
who co-wrote the report. It now has a small overweight position
in European equities, down from a strong overweight, he said in
a phone interview.  “We’re still positive on European and global markets as we
see economic recovery and a light at the end of the tunnel, but
we expect to see some volatility before the FOMC meetings,”
Zuercher said. “It’s a tactical step back as we expect the
European market to decline more than others if we go into a
technical correction. That would then be an occasion to buy
again at a cheaper price.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  