-- Czech Intervention Push Failed Over Deflation Rift, Minutes Show
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-08-09T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/czech-intervention-push-failed-over-deflation-rift-minutes-show.html
The Czech central bank rejected a
motion to start koruna sales because several policy makers
didn’t see the risk of deflation, minutes of its last monetary
meeting showed.  While most members of the Ceska Narodni Banka board agreed
that the probability of starting the first currency
interventions in more than a decade has increased, some argued
the move may destabilize the economy, according to the minutes
of the Aug. 1 meeting published on the bank’s website today.  After three cuts last year brought  interest rates  near  zero 
and exhausted room for traditional monetary easing, central
bankers in Prague are debating whether the first currency
interventions since 2002 are needed to battle the nation’s
longest recession, which pushed inflation below the bank’s
target. Rate setters are weighing the risk of slowing price
growth against signs the economy is approaching a rebound.  “Several of the board members repeatedly spoke in favor of
immediately commencing foreign exchange interventions,” the
bank said in the minutes. “However, it was noted several times
that given the uncertainty about the economic consequences of
foreign exchange interventions, it was appropriate to wait for a
potential greater accumulation of anti-inflationary pressures or
for the risk of deflation.”  The board, which left the benchmark interest rate unchanged
at 0.05 percent for a sixth meeting on Aug. 1, voted for the
first time on starting the interventions. It didn’t publish the
breakdown of the vote.  “It was said several times that there was no apparent risk
of deflation despite the accumulation of anti-inflationary
factors, and that inflation expectations were anchored, or not
falling,” the bank said in the minutes, which don’t disclose
views on individual board members.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in  Prague  at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  