-- Danone Buys YoCrunch Yogurt-Topping Maker to Grow in U.S.
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2013-08-09T07:17:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/danone-buys-yocrunch-yogurt-topping-maker-to-grow-in-u-s-.html
Danone (BN)  said it bought toppings
producer YoCrunch as the world’s biggest yogurt maker expands in
the U.S.  YoCrunch , which was founded in 1985, has net sales of $110
million and has had double-digit growth in recent years, Paris-based Danone said in a statement today. Naugatuck, Connecticut-based YoCrunch is the market leader for yogurts with flavored
toppings, the French company said. Danone didn’t disclose an
amount for its purchase of the closely held company.  Danone is adding to its U.S. dairy business to make up for
western European consumers switching to cheaper private labels
in the debt-burdened region. U.S. yogurt sales are forecast to
increase to $8.4 billion by 2018 from $6.5 billion last year,
according to data from Mintel. Danone accounts for about 30
percent of the market with brands such as Dannon, Danimals and
Activia, figures from researcher Euromonitor International show.  Danone rose as much as 0.3 percent to 59.25 euros and was
trading up 0.1 percent at 9:12 a.m. in Paris. The stock has
gained 18 percent this year.  The company reported second-quarter  sales growth  that beat
analysts’ estimates on July 29 after its dairy division gained
2.6 percent, excluding acquisitions, disposals and currency
shifts, as people ate more Greek yogurt in the U.S.  YoCrunch’s yogurt toppings include Fruity Pebbles, M&M
chocolate candies and Oreo cookie pieces. The company also sells
a lime Greek yogurt topped with graham-cracker pieces. Industry
growth in the U.S. has been driven by Greek yogurt, which now
represents 45 percent of yogurt sales in the country and may
become the biggest category in six months, according to a report
from Bernstein Research.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  