-- Disney’s ‘Planes’ Rescued From DVD Pile in Bet for Summer
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-08-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/disney-s-planes-rescued-from-dvd-pile-in-bet-for-summer.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s “Planes,” a low-cost animated feature that began life as a direct-to-DVD
project, is shaping up as a potential moneymaker for theaters in
a summer marked by slow sales for big-budget films.  The movie, inspired by Pixar’s “Cars,” opens today. The
picture went from DVD-only to cinemas when Disney, the world’s
largest entertainment company, saw how test audiences responded
to a rough cut, Dave Hollis, the studio’s executive vice
president for sales and distribution, said in an interview.  “It was off the charts,” he said.  Produced for about a fourth of what big budget movies cost,
“Planes” could generate $21 million this weekend and $81
million in its domestic run, according to Boxoffice.com.
Animated films typically do more outside the U.S., and Disney
already has “Planes” toys and apparel in stores. The film was
made for about $50 million, according to a company official who
asked not to be named because the figure isn’t public.  “Planes” could be a surprise success because of its lower
price tag, according to  David Weitzner , a movie marketing
consultant who teaches at the University of Southern
California’s School of Cinematic Arts. “The Lone Ranger,” a
July release from Burbank, California-based Disney, may lose as
much as $190 million, the company said on Aug. 6.  Disney executives “see where the market is going, what
families are looking for, and are bringing it in at a price that
makes sense,” Weitzner said in an interview.  DisneyToon Studios  “Planes” is about a cropdusting aircraft named Dusty with
a fear of heights and dreams of racing. It has a similar look
and feel as the two “Cars” movies, from Disney’s Pixar, which
have collected a combined $1 billion worldwide in ticket sales,
according to researcher Box Office Mojo. Comedian Dane Cook
supplies the voice for Dusty.  “Planes” was produced by DisneyToon Studios, a division
specializing in low-budget animated features mostly for home
video. “The Jungle Book 2,” a $20 million theatrical release
from the division in 2003, had $135.7 million in worldwide
sales, according to Box Office Mojo.  John Lasseter , who joined Disney as chief creative officer
of the animation studios following the company’s acquisition of
Pixar in 2006, scaled back the unit’s production after voicing
dissatisfaction with the quality of direct-to-home features.
DisneyToon Studios has been releasing about one movie a year,
down from six a decade ago, according to researcher IMDB.com.  Action Films  The timing of “Planes” may help, according to  Paul Dergarabedian , president of the box-office division at market
researcher Hollywood.com. It comes on a weekend when other new
pictures are aimed at older theatergoers.  “August can be the land of opportunity for movies that
aren’t hardcore action films,” Dergarabedian said. “It’s sort
of like counter programming.”  “Elysium,” a science-fiction film from Sony Corp.
starring  Matt Damon  and  Jodie Foster , also opens today. “Percy
Jackson: Sea of Monsters,” based on a series of young-adult
novels, opened Aug. 7 and targets older kids than “Planes”
because of its PG rating.  “Planes” will compete with three animated films still in
theaters: “The Smurfs 2,” in its second week, the hit film
“Despicable Me 2” in its sixth week, and “Turbo,” in its
fourth week. The picture is opening in 3,700 theaters, according
to Hollywood.com.  ‘Planes’ Toys  “Cars” is among Disney’s largest toy franchises,
generating more than  $10 billion  in retail sales since the first
picture’s release in 2006, the company has said. Last year’s
Cars Land addition to the company’s  California  Adventure park in
Anaheim, California, led to a 23 percent jump in attendance,
according to the Themed Entertainment Association.  Disney has already  released  “Planes” related merchandise,
including $6 diecast airplanes, $13 story books and $18
children’s jackets. A sequel, “Planes: Fire & Rescue,” is
scheduled for theaters in July 2014.  Advertising and word-of-mouth from the theatrical release
could lead to higher sales of the DVD and merchandise tied to
the film, according to David Paiko, vice president of business
development at  Rentrak Corp. (RENT) , a media measurement firm.  “All those marketing dollars to promote it theatrically
puts an awareness into people’s minds,” he said in an
interview. “It’s ‘Cars’ in the sky.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  