-- Don’t Condemn Underwater Mortgages. Renegotiate.
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-08-09T16:06:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/don-t-condemn-underwater-mortgages-renegotiate-.html
From a casual reading of real estate
 news , one might conclude that the U.S. housing bust is over.
Nationally,  home prices  have risen for 16 months straight, and
are about where they were in 2004.  But for 9.7 million homeowners, happy times aren’t here
again. Those are the wretched borrowers -- almost 20 percent of
households with a mortgage -- who owe more than their homes are
worth. Their negative equity totals $580 billion.  That sum is suddenly the object of a battle royale. On one
side are the biggest U.S. banks, the  bond market  and the real
estate industry. On the other are those underwater homeowners, a
couple-dozen communities where they mostly reside and a San
Francisco venture-capital firm, Mortgage Resolution Partners
LLC, proposing what it claims is the ideal fix, in three easy
steps.  Step one: Cities invoke eminent domain to seize underwater
mortgages embedded in investor-owned bonds. Step two: Using
private money, cities pay off the investors on those loans at a
discount on their face value. Step three: The mortgages are
refinanced with smaller loans, turning the negative into
positive.  All this is the brainchild of Cornell law school professor
Robert Hockett, who outlined the plan in a Federal Reserve Bank
of  New York   paper . His logic is sound enough: Negative-equity
households would be discouraged from defaulting; banks and
bondholders would save money in the long run by avoiding
foreclosures and short sales. Housing dead zones such as
Richmond,  California , a blighted, blue-collar city of about
106,000 on the east side of  San Francisco Bay  -- and the
epicenter of this fight -- might even spring back.  Trapped Homeowners  Richmond wants to be the  first to use  eminent domain this
way. Many of its residents are out of work -- the  unemployment
rate  is above 11 percent -- and trapped. They can’t take jobs
elsewhere because they can’t sell their homes or refinance at
today’s low rates. As of May, 2,759 owners had negative equity,
according to CoreLogic Inc.  But eminent domain is a powerful tool, and should be used
sparingly. It wouldn’t serve the U.S. well if this gambit
frightened off the steady stream of investors needed to purchase
the mortgage securities that allow homebuyers to borrow at
attractive rates.  Perhaps more important,  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  are
threatening to stop doing business in cities that resort to
eminent domain. Without buy-in from the two government-controlled home-loan financiers, which hold about 10 percent of
private-label mortgage securities (the type at stake here) and
whose guarantees the new mortgages would need, the idea may be
doomed.  Even more practically, the interests that oppose eminent
domain will surely fight all the way to the Supreme Court,
stranding Richmond’s homeowners for several more years. This
week, mortgage-backed-bond trustees, including Pacific
Investment Management Co. and  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , asked a federal
district court to block the city from even attempting the ploy.  This isn’t to say we accept the argument that seizing
mortgages would be unconstitutional. Governments have used
eminent domain to clear the way for roads and other public-works
projects that serve the public interest. The  Supreme Court  in
2005  expanded  its use, allowing cities to condemn private
property on behalf of commercial developers for projects such as
hotels and office buildings along a neglected waterfront. Why
wouldn’t that reasoning apply to a city wishing to rehabilitate
its housing stock?  Nor do we accept that seizing mortgages would necessarily
harm the pension funds, college saving plans and workers’ 401(k)
retirement accounts that hold mortgage bonds. Even though
eminent domain would be used mostly in cases where homeowners
are current on payments, the likelihood of default is high on
any underwater loan. This is especially true now that  interest
rates  are rising on adjustable loans, which most underwater
mortgages are.  Recovery Chances  Banks and bond funds are disingenuous when they say they
are acting to protect investors, when investors would be better
off in the long run if default incentives were reduced. The
typical recovery value after a default on loans such as those in
Richmond has been less than half of the principal balance.  One reason for banks’ reluctance to modify mortgages is
that they collect fees as loan servicers. The banks also receive
revenue on second mortgages from many of the same homeowners. If
eminent domain worked, and other cities followed suit, the $580
billion negative-equity pot would shrink -- along with both
sources of revenue. Some banks would also have to declare losses
on the second loans if forced to sell them at a discount.  It strikes us that the ideal middle path would be to adapt
the refinancing concept Richmond has in mind -- without actually
seizing loans through eminent domain. If banks and asset
managers aren’t willing to modify loans, and there is value to
be unlocked by doing so, then they have a financial obligation
to negotiate. If the two sides can’t agree on a fair value, then
eminent domain wouldn’t work, either.  The disposal of toxic mortgages will always be about
negotiating a price that works for both sides of the
transaction. Isn’t that what  Wall Street  does every day?  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 