-- Dow Calls Hit Five-Month High Amid Activist Speculation
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   S i m o n   C a s e y
-- 2013-08-10T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/dow-calls-hit-five-month-high-amid-activist-speculation.html
Bullish  option  trading on  Dow
Chemical Co. (DOW)  rose to the highest level in five months amid
speculation the largest U.S. chemical maker may be the target of
an activist investor.  More than 89,000 calls to buy the stock changed hands
yesterday, the most since February, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. That was 16 times the four-week average and 6.9
times the number of puts to sell. September $39 calls accounted
for 24 percent of all options  volume . The shares climbed 3.1
percent to $38.04 for the biggest gain since April.  “After the DuPont activist, Dow Chemical is seen as
another likely target,” Joe Kunkle, founder of OptionsHawk.com,
a Boston-based provider of options market data and analytics,
said in an e-mail. It is “an underperforming stock but valued
attractively with room to trim the fat via asset sales to unlock
 shareholder value ,” he said.  DuPont Co. said last month it’s considering a spinoff or
sale of its performance chemicals unit to focus on less-cyclical
products and boost shareholder returns. Activist investor  Nelson Peltz  amassed a “very big” stake in the company,  Andrew Ross Sorkin  of the  New York  Times said at the CNBC Institutional
Investor Delivering Alpha Conference on July 17. Peltz, who was
also at the conference, declined to comment at the time.  Dow earned about 7 cents of operating profit for every
dollar of sales in the past 12 months, the lowest margin among
its peers, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Rebecca Bentley, a
spokeswoman for the Midland, Michigan-based company, declined to
comment on the trading.  Volume Jumps  About 18.7 million Dow shares changed hands yesterday, the
most since the end of April and more than triple the three-month
average volume. The September $42 calls rose to 19 cents from 1
cent for the biggest gain among all Dow contacts. Next month’s
options expire Sept. 20.  Weekly bullish options expiring at the end of next week
were also among the most active. The second and third most-traded contracts were $38 and $39 expiring Aug. 17.  “Looks like buyers are anticipating some type of catalyst
to lift the stock,” Frederic Ruffy, a Chicago-based senior
options strategist at WhatsTrading.com, wrote in an e-mail.  The stock trades for about 20 times its trailing 12-month
earnings per share, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s also the median price-earnings ratio for chemical
companies with market values exceeding $20 billion, the data
show.  Asset Sales  Dow shares have rallied 18 percent this year as cost cuts
and revenue gains in  China  and other  emerging markets  helped
boost earnings. The company may sell three businesses with $6
billion in combined revenue if it fails to improve profit
margins, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Liveris 
said on an on July 25 conference call.  Dow is investing $4 billion to expand production in the
U.S., where an abundance of natural gas from drilling in shale
formations has made U.S. plastics production competitive with
the  Middle East . The company, founded in 1897 as a bleach maker,
is the world’s biggest producer of chlorine, epoxy resins and
polyethylene plastic. It’s the world’s second-biggest chemical
maker after Germany’s  BASF SE. (BAS)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey in New York at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  