-- Telekom Austria Jumps After Carlos Slim’s KPN Bid: Vienna Mover
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   W e b e r
-- 2013-08-09T16:10:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/telekom-austria-jumps-after-carlos-slim-s-kpn-bid-vienna-mover.html
Telekom Austria AG (TKA) , one of the two
European network operators part-owned by  Carlos Slim ’s  America
Movil SAB (AMXL) , had its biggest single-day gain in more than four
years after the Mexican billionaire’s company offered to take
over  Royal KPN NV. (KPN)   The  shares  rose 46 cents, or 8.7 percent, to 5.73 euros
today in Vienna. Trading was almost six times the 90-day average
volume as the stock rose the most since December 2008.  Slim’s offer “is absolutely positive because it sheds some
light on the takeover issue and shows that  America Movil  is
committed to the European market,” Bernd Maurer, a Vienna-based
analyst at Raiffeisen Centrobank AG, said by phone today.
America Movil offer may have been triggered by KPN’s planned
disposal of its German unit, E-Plus, he said.  America Movil is offering 7.2 billion euros ($9.6 billion)
for the 70 percent in KPN it doesn’t yet own, accelerating
Slim’s bid to expand his telecommunications empire beyond Latin
America. The company has a direct stake of 23.7 percent in
 Telekom Austria , according to its latest quarterly report. Slim
owns an additional 3.14 percent share through his Inmobiliaria
Carso SA holding company.  Slim’s company would have to make an offer for all of
Telekom Austria’s shares if it wanted to raise its stake above
30 percent, according to Austrian law. Any offer prior to Sept.
25, the one year anniversary of America Movil’s investment in
Telekom Austria, would need to match the 9.50 euro-a-share price
paid for the initial stake, takeover rules say.  “Although we currently have no evidence or information of
a tender offer, when we look at the development of KPN, such a
scenario is also possible for Telekom Austria,” the company’s
labor representative, Alexander Sollak, said today in an  OTS
statement . Workers want Austria’s state-asset agency, which owns
28.4 percent of the company, to reaffirm its intention of
keeping its stake and consider buying more stock.  Telekom Austria spokesman Peter Schiefer declined to
comment on Slim’s takeover bid for KPN.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Weber in Vienna at 
 aweber45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mariajose Vera at 
 mvera1@bloomberg.net  