-- Terra Firma Said to Win Approval For Fund II Extension
-- B y   K i e l   P o r t e r   a n d   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2013-08-09T17:18:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/terra-firma-said-to-win-approval-for-fund-ii-extension.html
Terra Firma Capital Partners Ltd.,
the private-equity firm run by  Guy Hands , won consent from
investors to extend the life of its second fund, according to
two people with knowledge of the talks.  The Guernsey, Channel Islands-based firm is extending Terra
Firma Capital Partners II’s planned wind-down to April 2016 from
April 2014 to avoid rushing sales of the remaining companies in
the 2.1 billion euro ($2.8 billion) fund, said the people, who
asked not be identified because the talks are private.  In exchange for the extension, which was agreed to last
month, Terra Firma won’t charge investors including insurance
firms and pension funds its 1.5 percent management fee, the
people said, though it will retain its planned share of the
profit.  The remaining investments in the fund, which was started in
2004, include U.K.-based Odeon Cinemas Group Ltd., Infinis Plc,
an energy company, and Autobahn Tank & Rast Gmbh, a German
highway-services company, according to Terra Firma’s  website .  Officials at Terra Firma declined to comment. The buyout
firm sold one of the other companies in the portfolio, Northern
Irish gas distribution company Phoenix Energy Holdings Group, to
Hastings Funds Management Ltd. last week. The sale meant Terra
Firma has now returned all the capital invested in the fund, one
of the people said.  Private-equity firms typically structure funds to last a
decade, with an investment period of five years and the firm
receiving 20 percent of the profits from investments above an
agreed threshold.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kiel Porter in London at 
 kporter17@bloomberg.net ;
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Edward Evans  at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 