-- Euribor-EBF Scraps USD Euribor After 16 Months as Banks Depart
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l   a n d   M a u d   V a n   G a a l
-- 2013-08-09T15:37:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/euribor-ebf-scraps-usd-euribor-after-16-months-as-banks-depart.html
Euribor-EBF, the Brussels-based
industry group that runs Euribor interest-rate benchmarks, said
it will wind down its USD Euribor index after less than two
years as banks withdraw contributions to the product.  The index, a gauge of banks’ estimated cost of borrowing in
dollars that was introduced in April 2012, will end on Sept. 1,
the group said in a  statement  on its website. The USD Euribor
panel’s membership has shrunk to 10 banks from the 20 it had
when it was introduced to compete with dollar  Libor. (US0003M)   Commerzbank
AG (CBK)  and  Natixis (KN)  were the latest lenders to depart the panel,
quitting last month.  Firms are withdrawing from interest-rate benchmarks amid
concern they could face penalties if they are found to have
engaged in wrongdoing. Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, UBS AG
and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  have been fined more than $2.5 billion for
rigging the London interbank offered rate and Euribor. New
European Union rules will include the power to force banks to
make submissions to Euribor, a gauge of banks’ estimated cost of
borrowing in euros over different periods of time.  “The current environment and ongoing regulatory reform
doesn’t make contributing a simple thing,” Euribor-EBF Director
Cedric Quemener said by phone. “We are sad to lose USD Euribor,
but we understand the banks’ positions.”  The discontinuation of the panel “should have no impact on
legacy or prospective contracts given the limited level of
diffusion of this index,” the group said in the statement.  The 10 members of the USD Euribor panel are  Banco Bilbao
Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) ,  Banco Santander SA (SAN) ,  Bank of China Ltd. (3988) ,
 CaixaBank (CABK) , Caixa Geral de Depositos, Cecabank SA, CITIC Bank
International,  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) ,  KBC Groep NV (KBC)  and  Turkiye
Garanti Bankasi AS. (GARAN)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net ;
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Shelley Smith at   ssmith118@bloomberg.net  