-- Europe Stocks Rise on Week as Data Outweighs Fed Concern
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2013-08-09T16:06:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/europe-stocks-rise-on-week-as-data-outweighs-fed-concern.html
European stocks  advanced for a second
week, as better-than-forecast economic data in Europe and China
outweighed concern that the  Federal Reserve  will reduce the pace
of its bond-purchase program.  Royal KPN NV soared 16 percent after billionaire  Carlos
Slim ’s America Movil SAB offered to take over the Dutch phone
operator.  Securitas (SECUB)  AB jumped 9.1 percent after the world’s
second-biggest guarding-services provider reported quarterly
profit that beat analyst estimates.  Nestle (NESN)  SA fell 3.2 percent
after posting the slowest first-half revenue growth in four
years and warning it may not reach its sales forecast.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index rose 0.6 percent to 305.92 this
week. The gauge has  rallied  11 percent since reaching a low on
June 24 as the Federal Reserve said it remains flexible on the
pace of bond buying, while the  European Central Bank  and the
 Bank of England  signaled  interest rates  will remain low for an
extended period.  “Things are getting less bad or starting to be a bit
better in some cases,” said Karim Bertoni, who helps oversee
about $3.3 billion at De Pury Pictet Turrettini & Co. in Geneva.
“It is still not euphoria, but it is pointing at the right
direction. We are constructive on equities.”  Investors scrutinized remarks this week from Fed officials
who indicated willingness to begin tapering the central bank’s
bond-buying program if the economic improvement continues. The
Stoxx 600 plunged 11 percent from May 22 through June 24 amid
speculation the Fed will begin reducing bond purchases as soon
as September.  Fed Tapering  Fed Bank of Atlanta President  Dennis Lockhart  said in an
interview with Market News International this week that if
economic growth and  job creation  pick up as expected, the
central bank should proceed with the “removal” of its asset
purchases. Fed Bank of Cleveland President  Sandra Pianalto  said
Aug. 7 there has been “meaningful improvement” in the labor
market and that tapering may be warranted if it continues to
strengthen.  National benchmark indexes rose in 15 of the 18 western
European markets this week. France’s  CAC 40 (CAC)  gained 0.8 percent,
while Germany’s  DAX Index (DAX)  dropped 0.8 percent.  The U.K.’s FTSE 100 slipped 1 percent as the Bank of
England forecast unemployment will stay above 7 percent at least
until the third quarter of 2016. The central bank’s new
governor,  Mark Carney , said interest rates will remain at a
record low until the jobless rate falls to 7 percent from the
current 7.8 percent.  Services Output  Euro-area services  output  shrank at a slower pace in July
than initially estimated, adding to evidence the economy is
gathering strength to pull out of a record-long recession. An
index of activity in the services industry based on a survey of
purchasing managers rose to 49.8 from 48.3 in June, London-based
Markit Economics said Aug. 5. That was above an initial estimate
of 49.6 on July 24. A reading below 50 indicates contraction.  Factory orders in Germany rose an annual 4.3 percent in
June, the Economics Ministry said Aug. 6, beating the average of
42 economists’ forecasts for growth of 0.3 percent.  In China, factory production increased 9.7 percent in July
from a year earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said
today. That beat economists’ forecast for 8.9 percent growth.
The report came after government figures showed exports and
imports in the Asian nation rebounded last month by more than
estimated.  KPN (KPN)  surged 16 percent as America Movil offered 2.40 euros a
share for the company. The price -- a 20 percent premium to
KPN’s close on Aug. 8 -- would value the stake that America
Movil doesn’t own at 7.2 billion euros ($9.6 billion). The
Mexican mobile-phone operator has a 29.8 percent holding in KPN.  Securitas Jumps  Securitas advanced 9.1 percent after reporting that second-quarter profit jumped 41 percent to 461.1 million kronor ($70.3
million). That beat the average 436.7 million-krona estimate of
six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Sky Deutschland AG jumped to the highest price in almost
five years on Aug. 6 as additional customers helped profit beat
estimates at the German pay-television provider controlled by
 Rupert Murdoch ’s Twenty-First Century Fox Inc. The shares rose 9
percent in the week.  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  advanced 17 percent after second-quarter
earnings fell less than analysts had estimated. Germany’s
second-biggest bank said net income slid 84 percent to 43
million euros from 270 million euros in the second quarter of
last year. That still beat the 4.6 million-euro average estimate
of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Nestle fell 3.2 percent. Chief Financial Officer Wan Ling
Martello said Aug. 8 that reaching the organic sales growth
needed in the rest of the year to meet the company’s forecast
will be a “stretch” because of sluggish demand in Europe.
First-half revenue increased 4.1 percent, excluding
acquisitions, divestments and currency shifts, the world’s
largest food company said. That missed the median analyst
estimate of 4.5 percent growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  