-- Lewis Lapham: Goering’s Planes Made Lindbergh a Nazi Tool
-- B y   L e w i s   L a p h a m
-- 2013-08-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/lewis-lapham-goering-s-planes-made-lindbergh-a-nazi-tool.html
Charles Lindbergh , the most famous
man in the world at the time, moved to Europe in 1935 to get
away from the U.S. media frenzy, grown intolerable after the
kidnapping and murder of his son.  (To listen to the podcast, click  here .)  In 1936, the aviator visited Germany, where Luftwaffe chief
Hermann Goering showed off the latest bombers and fighters
coming out of the busy aircraft plants. Lindbergh concluded,
incorrectly, that the German air force was invincible and that
France and Britain must appease Hitler.  On Oct. 18, 1938, just weeks before Kristallnacht,
Lindbergh accepted a medal from Goering -- the Service Cross of
the German Eagle. As late as 1955, Lindbergh wrote that the fuss
about it was a “tempest in a teapot.”  When he returned to the U.S. a few months later, Lindbergh
became the leading voice for the isolationist movement and a
powerful foe of President Roosevelt -- until  Pearl Harbor 
changed his stance.  Many years later, his wife, Anne, acknowledged that he’d
been “used” as a Nazi propaganda tool.  I spoke with Lynne Olson, author of “Those Angry Days:
Roosevelt, Lindbergh, and America’s Fight Over World War II,
1939-1941,” on the following topics:  1. Aid to Allies.  2. Lindbergh’s Propaganda.  3. Isolationists.  4. Traitors & Maggots.  5. Pearl Harbor.  To buy this book in North America, click  here .  (Lewis Lapham is the founder of  Lapham’s Quarterly  and the
former editor of Harper’s magazine. He hosts “The World in
Time” interview series for Bloomberg News.)  Muse highlights include NYC  Weekend  and  Greg Evans  on
 movies .  To contact the writer on the story:
 Lewis Lapham  in  New York  at 
 lhl@laphamsquarterly.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 