-- JPMorgan Cuts Mexico’s Growth Forecast on Unexpected Output Drop
-- B y   W i t h   a s s i s t a n c e   f r o m   J o n a t h a n   R o e d e r   a n d   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2013-08-09T18:07:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/mexican-industrial-production-unexpectedly-contracted-in-june.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. cut  Mexico ’s
2013 growth estimate after  industrial production  in Latin
America’s second-biggest economy surprised analysts by posting
in June the second-biggest decline since November 2009.  The biggest U.S. bank trimmed its forecast for gross
domestic product expansion to 2.4 percent from 2.8 percent after
a government report showed output slid 2.4 percent from the same
month a year earlier. The drop marked the fifth straight month
production missed economists’ predictions and was worse than all
16 forecasts in a Bloomberg survey.  The central bank cut its own growth projection on Aug. 7,
saying the economy may grow this year at about half the pace of
2012 amid stagnant manufacturing and a decline in public
spending. Policy makers surprised analysts in March by cutting
the benchmark interest rate to 4 percent amid signs the economy
was slowing. They have kept borrowing costs unchanged over the
past three meeting as inflation remains above the 3 percent
midpoint of the target range.  “We are no longer confident in a sharp rebound in
manufacturing in the third quarter,” JPMorgan economists
Gabriel Lozano and Steven Palacio wrote in a research report e-mailed today. “While we still expect a lift in growth in the
second half, we expect it to be milder and more gradual than
anticipated.”  Slower Growth  GDP will expand 2 percent to 3 percent this year, compared
with the 3 percent to 4 percent previously forecast, the central
bank said in its quarterly inflation report published Aug. 7.
Economic growth will probably accelerate in the second half of
the year as exports to the U.S. pick up, central bank Governor
Agustin Carstens told reporters.  Mexico’s peso gained 0.1 percent to 12.5918 as of 1:00 p.m.
in Mexico City.  Government spending fell 2.8 percent in real terms to 1.89
trillion pesos ($150 billion) in the first six months of 2013
compared with the year-earlier period, according to data from
the Finance Ministry. The drop was due to a change in
administration after President Enrique Pena Nieto took office in
December and has been corrected as of June, Finance Minister
Luis Videgaray said last month.  Housing Turmoil  Spending delays hit construction company  Empresas ICA SAB (ICA*) ,
whose credit rating was cut by Moody’s Investors Service and
Standard & Poor’s amid declining earnings. Construction tumbled
6 percent and manufacturing dropped 1.2 percent, according to
the statistics agency.  Mexico’s three largest homebuilders have posted the biggest
losses on the nation’s IPC equity index this year as a shift in
government housing policy drained their cash. The companies are
looking to restructure debt and have missed bond payments as the
government promotes urban developments over homes in outlying
areas where the builders hold large reserves of land.  The industrial production numbers “are disappointing,
they’re weak, they show that construction has yet to recover,”
said Rafael de la Fuente, an economist at UBS AG in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut . “The central bank has basically written off the
second quarter but is expecting a recovery in the third.”  Bright Spot  The monthly seasonally-adjusted figures were one bright
spot in today’s report, showing manufacturing expanded 0.5
percent in June from May, Tanuja Gupta, an analyst at Nomura
Holdings Inc., said in an e-mail.  “Though the headline number came in negative, going
forward we could see some recovery in industrial activity driven
by a recovering manufacturing sector and infrastructure projects
taken up by the government,” Gupta said.  The slowdown means that growth is unlikely to put pressure
on inflation, Carstens said Aug. 7. Consumer prices fell in July
for the third straight month as food and merchandise prices
declined. Annual  inflation  was 3.47 percent compared with 4.09
percent in June, slowing to within the central bank’s 2 percent
to 4 percent target range for the first month since February. 