-- Ford Sollers Russia Venture Cuts Carmaking as Sales Drop
-- B y   A n a t o l y   T e m k i n
-- 2013-08-09T15:06:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/ford-sollers-russia-venture-cuts-carmaking-as-sales-drop.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s Russian carmaking
partnership with  OAO Sollers (SVAV)  is reducing production and cutting
jobs in response to a decline in the vehicle market this year.  The Ford Sollers plant near St. Petersburg, the country’s
second-largest city, is suspending manufacturing for a combined
20 days from August through September, and will drop one of its
three daily shifts after that, the venture said today in an e-mail. Talks are under way with labor unions on the workforce
reductions, it said. A spokeswoman in Moscow declined when
contacted by phone to specify how many posts may be eliminated.  “Sales of C-segment cars, including the  Ford Focus ,
dropped by 16 percent in the first half of 2013,” the company
said. “A new working schedule will allow the company to
maintain production efficiency.”  Russia ’s automotive market has been shrinking as economic
growth slows. Six-month industrywide sales of new cars and light
commercial vehicles fell 6 percent from a year earlier to 1.33
million units, with demand for models from Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford plunging 19 percent, according to  data  compiled by
the Association of European Businesses in Russia.  The seven-month automotive-market decline was also 6
percent, including an 18 percent drop at Ford, the trade group
 said  yesterday in a statement. A Russian government incentive
program to encourage car purchases may help accelerate a
“gradual improvement to the point of stabilization in the
coming months,” the association said.  General Motors Co.,the biggest U.S. carmaker, is closing
its  St. Petersburg  plant for a four-week vacation through Aug.
24, longer than the normal two-week summer shutdown, to keep
production in line with demand, the company said in mid-June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anatoly Temkin in St. Petersburg at 
 atemkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  