-- Ex-Fernandez Ally Leads Rival Bloc in Argentine Primary
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2013-08-09T14:27:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/former-fernandez-ally-tests-vote-strength-as-head-of-rival-bloc.html
A primary election for Argentine
congressional candidates this weekend will test the vote-getting
strength of a former ally of President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner who has now turned against her.  Former Cabinet Chief Sergio Massa, 41, is leading a group
of dissident Peronist Party members who are contesting October’s
mid-term congressional elections. Opinion polls show Massa, now
mayor of a Buenos Aires suburb, attracting more votes in the
Aug. 11 primary than Fernandez favorite, 43-year-old Martin Insaurralde.  Fernandez needs to secure two-thirds majorities in both
houses of congress to push through constitutional changes that
would allow her to seek a third term in 2015. Confirmation of
Massa’s popularity would make him a potential presidential
candidate, according to Mariel Fornoni, managing director of
pollster Management & Fit.  “Massa is suddenly in all nationwide media and is
positioned as a player in a bigger league” said Federico Thomsen, a Buenos Aires-based economic and political analyst
with research company E.F. Thomsen. “Massa has higher
aspirations than being just a lower house member.”  Massa was supported by 34 percent of those surveyed, while
28 percent backed Insaurralde, in a poll conducted July 23 to
Aug. 1 by Fornoni’s M&F on the ballot to choose congressional
candidates for Buenos Aires, the country’s most-populous
province. The poll of 2,000 people had a margin of error of 2.3
percentage points.  Technical Tie  A poll by  Poliarquia Consultores , published in La Nacion
newspaper today, put the two in a technical tie. The poll of
1,000 people taken Aug. 2 to Aug. 5, gives Massa 32.8 percent of
votes and Insaurralde 30.1 percent. The poll has a margin of
error of 3.16 percentage points.  About 31 million Argentines are obliged by law to vote in
the primaries to choose candidates for 127 seats in the lower
house and 24 in the senate. Massa and Insaurralde are among
those seeking to contest the 35 lower house vacancies for
representatives from Buenos Aires province.  The government is failing to address  inflation  estimated at
about 24 percent a year, needs to overhaul the tax system and
combat crime, Massa said in an Aug. 7 speech to businessmen
including billionaire airport magnate Eduardo Eurnekian and the
heads of the local units of Fiat SpA and Citigroup Inc.  ‘New Chapter’  “On Sunday a new chapter of Argentine politics begins that
will be consolidated on October 27 but that has its sights not
only on 2015, but also to build a long-term business culture for
our country,” Massa said.  Claudio Ambrosini, Massa’s spokesman, declined to comment
on his political aspirations beyond the congressional vote.
Presidential spokesman Alfredo Scoccimarro didn’t return a phone
call and e-mail seeking comment on the primaries and whether
Fernandez, 60, would seek a third term.  Massa told the group of business leaders that he disagrees
with the government’s isolation from international capital
markets as Argentina has missed opportunities to secure cheap
debt for development projects.  Argentina hasn’t sold debt abroad since defaulting on a
record $95 billion of debt in 2001. The nation’s average
borrowing costs of 13.17 percent, are the highest of 56 emerging
market economies, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI
Global index.  Maintain Control  Artemio Lopez, director of Buenos Aires-based Consultora
Equis, said in a report he expects Massa and Insaurralde will
tie in the primaries. Fernandez’s Victory Front alliance will
garner about 40 percent of votes nationwide and maintain its
control of both houses of congress in the mid-term elections, he
said.  A decline in  unemployment  to 7.2 percent and a 14 percent
increase in retiree pensions will underpin support for Fernandez
and her coalition, Lopez wrote on his website.  If the ruling party gets less than 40 percent of the vote,
seeking a constitutional reform would be more difficult and the
government would likely begin to focus more on “exit strategies
and governability issues than a perpetuation of power or
institutional reforms,” Barclays Plc analysts Sebastian Vargas
and  Alejandro Grisanti  wrote in a note yesterday.  Massa was elected mayor of Tigre, a sprawling, riverside
municipality on the northern outskirts of the capital, in 2007.
The following year, Fernandez chose him to head her cabinet,
sacking him in 2009 in the wake of the ruling coalition’s losses
in mid-term elections.  Redrado, Lavagna  Massa effectively broke with Fernandez when he announced
his candidacy in June. He said Aug. 7 that it’s time to unify
the country and create a legal framework to rebuild confidence
and attract investment.  Several other former senior officials who served under
Fernandez or her late husband and predecessor Nestor Kirchner
are supporting Massa.  They include Martin Redrado, whom Fernandez fired as
president of the central bank in 2010 for opposing her plan to
use international reserves to pay debt, former cabinet chief
Alberto Fernandez, and Roberto Lavagna, who as Kirchner’s
economy minister, was in charge of the 2005 restructuring of the
country’s defaulted debt.  Fernandez, whose spending on education, highways and
handouts for the poor helped her win re-election in October 2011
with 54 percent of votes, is banned by the constitution from
seeking a third consecutive term.  Market Reaction  With the country effectively locked out of global credit
markets since the 2001 default, Fernandez financed higher
government spending by increasing taxes, expanding money supply
by as much as 40 percent a year and borrowing money from the
state pension agency.  “The market could respond positively if Massa is poised to
present a strong challenge to the government candidate in
2015,” Casey Reckman, a Credit Suisse Group AG. economist wrote
in an Aug. 6 report. “Argentina’s next president would need
significant political capital and a strong mandate to make
necessary reductions in subsidies and other painful adjustments
to the economic model.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  