-- Forstmann Little Considers Sale of IMG Talent Agency
-- B y   R o b   G o l u m
-- 2013-08-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/forstmann-little-considers-sale-of-img-talent-agency.html
Forstmann Little & Co. said it’s
considering the possible sale of IMG Worldwide Inc., the talent
agency that represents sports stars such as Peyton and Eli Manning.  The private-equity firm has hired  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and
 Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  as financial advisers for a review that
will include a wider range of alternatives beyond the possible
sale, according to a statement yesterday. Forstmann Little,
based in New York, said it hasn’t decided on a specific course
or set a definitive timetable for action.  IMG could fetch $2 billion, two people with knowledge of
the situation said in May. The agency, led by Chief Executive
Officer Michael Dolan, represents top athletes such as the
National Football League’s Mannings and tennis champion Venus Williams, and also represents models and manages fashion and
sports events.  George Pyne, president of IMG Sports, said earlier this
year during a sports business conference that the company would
probably be sold in the next four to 24 months. Forstmann
Little, co-founded by the late  Ted Forstmann , bought IMG in 2004
for about $750 million, according to a person familiar with the
matter.  Possible suitors for IMG may include Guggenheim Partners,
owner of the  Los Angeles  Dodgers; Silver Lake Management LLC,
which has a stake in William Morris Endeavor Entertainment LLC;
and Creative Artists Agency, part owned by private-equity firm
TPG Capital, according to Inner Circle Sports’s Rob Tilliss.  The agency was founded more than half a century ago with a
handshake agreement between Mark McCormack and golfer  Arnold
Palmer , according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Golum in Los Angeles at 
 rgolum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  