-- French Industrial Output Unexpectedly Drops
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2013-08-09T09:52:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/french-industrial-output-unexpectedly-drops.html
French  industrial production 
unexpectedly dropped in June, underscoring the government’s
struggle to revive growth.  Industrial production fell 1.4 percent from the previous
month, state statistical institute Insee said today. The drop
was worse than any of the predictions made by 22 economists in a
Bloomberg survey, whose estimates ranged from a 0.5 percent
decline to a 0.5 percent increase. The median forecast was for a
0.3 percent gain.  The French economy has  barely grown  in more than two years
and probably stagnated in the second quarter, according to
Bloomberg’s monthly economic survey published yesterday. Even
so, this week both President Francois Hollande and Finance
Minister Pierre Moscovici said that a “fragile” recovery is
under way.  “Today’s data are not very encouraging,” Annalisa Piazza,
an analyst at Newedge Group in  London , said in a note. “There
are still pockets of weakness in the European monetary union’s
industrial sector. Although the EMU economy seems to have
bottomed out, signs that a sustainable recovery is on its way
are not clear yet and a bumpy road ahead has to be expected.”  IMF Forecast  The International Monetary Fund this week said the French
economy will contract 0.2 percent in 2013 after being flat last
year, and will grow 0.8 percent in 2014.  France ’s decline in industrial output contrasted with its
neighbors. In  Germany , the measure rose 2.4 percent in June,
adding to signs that growth in Europe’s largest economy
accelerated in the second quarter. Even  Italy (ITPRSANM) , mired in its
worst recession in 30 years, saw a 0.3 percent increase in
production, the second monthly increase in a row and its best
since January.  “The news flow out of the euro zone has been largely
positive recently, but these numbers are a reminder that we are
far from a strong recovery,” Cyril Regnat, a strategist at
Natixis in Paris said in a telephone interview.  In May, French output fell 0.3 percent, Insee said,
revising its initial report of a 0.4 percent drop. For the
second quarter it was up 1.4 percent from the previous three
months and up 0.2 percent from a year ago.  Cold Spring  “All in all this is not as bad a print as it first appears
even though it comes as a disappointment after the stellar
increase seen in German production,” Barclays Plc economist
Fabrice Montagne said. “Over the quarter, industrial production
remains strongly up driven by investment goods.”  June’s drop in output was driven by a 5.4 percent decline
in energy and mining, and a 2.9 percent decrease in food.  The decline in energy output could just be “payback”
after a surge during the unseasonably cold spring, Tullia Bucco,
an economist at UniCredit Research, said in a note to clients.  Manufacturing fell 0.4 percent in the month, after a 0.9
percent drop in May.  Separately, the French Finance Ministry said the
government’s budget deficit widened to 59.3 billion euros ($78
billion) in the first six months of the year from 56.7 billion
in the same period last year. The central government’s spending
rose 5.9 percent to 196.2 billion in the year through June and
revenue gained 5.0 percent to 152.7 billion. So-called special
accounts, which include local governments, added another 15.8
billion euros to the deficit.  The ministry said in a statement that the deficit would
have shrunk 5 billion euros excluding a one-time gain last year
from selling mobile phone licenses, and the cost this year of
capital increases for the European Investment Bank and the
European Stability Mechanism.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  