-- LG Wins New Jersey Court’s Approval to Build Atop Hudson Cliffs
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-08-10T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/lg-wins-new-jersey-court-approval-to-build-on-hudson-cliffs.html
A U.S. unit of  LG Electronics Inc. (066570) 
won approval from a New Jersey court to build a $300 million
headquarters over objections that it would ruin views of the
Palisades, a 200-million-year-old chunk of rocky wilderness
above the western shore of the  Hudson River .  Superior Court Judge Alexander H. Carver III yesterday
dismissed two lawsuits challenging an approval by the Englewood
Cliffs Zoning Board of Adjustment for a new North American
headquarters for LG Electronics USA Inc. LG, the world’s second-biggest television maker behind  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , wants a
view of the famous  New York  City skyline.  The  Metropolitan Museum  of Art, the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency, four former New Jersey governors and
environmentalist Larry Rockefeller, a grandson of philanthropist
John D. Rockefeller Jr., sought to stop the approval by the
Englewood Cliffs Zoning Board of Adjustment. Carver ruled that
the board didn’t exceed its authority in granting variances.  “The board found that LG had met the positive criteria
requirements because the project promoted the general welfare by
maintaining jobs, promoting green building design, providing
adequate light, air and open space, providing  energy efficiency ,
and utilizing renewable energy sources,” according to the
ruling in state court in Hackensack.  Variances Justified  “The board’s determination that LG had satisfied the
positive criteria required by statute to justify granting the
variances sought is fully supported by the record, and is not
arbitrary, capricious or unreasonable,” Carver ruled.  LG said yesterday in a statement that the ruling clears the
way for construction.  “LG was transparent, accountable and consultative in the
process to achieve all necessary approvals for this project,”
Wayne Park, president and chief executive officer of LG
Electronics USA, said in the statement. “We listened carefully
to the concerns of local residents and community groups, and we
amended our plans to address those concerns.”  In a 2012 lawsuit, opponents said Englewood Cliffs wrongly
approved a 143-foot tower in a borough that caps building height
at 35 feet (10.6 meters). The complaint was filed by two county
residents, Margo Moss and Jakob Franke, plus the New Jersey
State Federation of Women’s Clubs and Scenic Hudson, a
Poughkeepsie, New York-based preservation group.  Four Governors  On June 5, four former governors -- Democrats Brendan Byrne
and Jim Florio and Republicans Christie Whitman and Thomas H. Kean Sr. -- signed a letter to Koo Bon-Joon, co-vice chairman of
Seoul-based LG, asking for a redesign. The EPA followed up with
a June 11 letter to Park.  Harold Holzer , a spokesman for the  Metropolitan Museum of
Art , didn’t immediately return a call yesterday seeking comment
on the ruling. The museum’s Cloisters medieval collection is
housed across the river from the Palisades.  Last month, Holzer said: “There is no place in the world
that you can see a space that a 17th century explorer saw. Only
in New Jersey. That’s something to cherish, not to violate.”  Mark Izeman, an attorney for the Manhattan-based  Natural
Resources Defense Council , a nonprofit environmental group,
didn’t immediately return a call yesterday seeking comment. The
council is part of a coalition, ProtectThePalisades.org, that
encourages activists to contact LG and elected officials.  The case is Jacoby v. Zoning Board of Adjustment of
Englewood Cliffs, L-2301-12,  New Jersey  Superior Court, Bergen
County (Hackensack).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in  Newark , New Jersey at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 