-- GDF Suez Buys Balfour Beatty Unit to Expand in Energy Services
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-08-09T08:17:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/gdf-suez-buys-balfour-beatty-unit-to-expand-in-energy-services.html
GDF Suez SA (GSZ) , the operator of Europe’s
biggest natural-gas network, agreed to acquire the U.K.’s
Balfour Beatty Workplace to expand in energy services.  GDF Suez will pay less than the implied value of 190
million pounds ($295 million) because it will take on pension
liabilities and debt, the Paris-based utility said today in a
statement. It expects to complete the transaction by year-end.  The French company, which owns power stations as well as
gas pipelines in Europe, is pushing into energy services as
demand for gas-fired electricity generation falls. The
acquisition will allow the utility to diversify as it mothballs
or sells unprofitable plants amid the economic slowdown.  Balfour Beatty Workplace provides building management and
maintenance services to hospitals, local governments and
schools, according to its  website . The business is a unit of
 Balfour Beatty Plc (BBY) , the U.K.’s largest construction company.  “This acquisition will consolidate the group’s significant
European position in energy and facilities services,” Jerome
Tolot, head of energy services at GDF Suez, said in today’s
statement. The deal “will also create a strong position for GDF
Suez in the U.K.”  Balfour Beatty Workplace’s customers include the
government’s Department for Work and Pensions, GDF Suez said.
The utility’s own Cofely business already employs 2,200 people
in the U.K. providing similar services.  GDF Suez last week reported a 26 percent slump in first-half profit. The Balfour Beatty transaction will generate about
930 million euros ($1.24 billion) in annual sales, according to
the French utility, which said it’s acquiring “substantially
all” of Balfour Beatty’s U.K. operations in this area, which
contributed 481 million pounds of revenue last year.  Balfour Beatty also announced the agreement in a separate
statement today, saying it was advised by Citigroup Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net  