-- German Stocks Are Little Changed as Chinese Output Beats
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2013-08-09T07:36:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/german-stocks-are-little-changed-as-chinese-output-beats.html
German stocks  were little changed,
with the benchmark  DAX (DAX)  Index heading for a weekly loss, as
Chinese industrial production exceeded estimates.  Commerzbank AG rose for a third day after Exane BNP Paribas
raised its recommendation on the shares. Deutsche Lufthansa AG
gained 1.4 percent after HSBC Holdings Plc added the airline to
its Europe Super Ten list. Wacker Chemie AG surged 3.7 percent
after Commerzbank upgraded its recommendation on the stock.  The DAX increased less than 0.1 percent to 8,321.96 at 9:33
a.m. in  Frankfurt , heading for a 1 percent weekly decline. The
equity benchmark has still rallied 8.2 percent from its low on
June 24 as the  European Central Bank  said that  interest rates 
will remain low for an extended period of time. The broader HDAX
Index was also little changed today.  The volume of shares changing hands in DAX-listed companies
was 38 percent higher than the average of the last 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  China’s  industrial output  rose 9.7 percent in July from a
year earlier and retail sales gained 13.2 percent, the National
Bureau of Statistics said on its website today.  The advance in industrial production compared with the 8.9
percent median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 47
economists and an 8.9 percent increase in June.  Retail sales 
compared with the median projection for a 13.5 percent advance
and a 13.3 percent increase the previous month.  China ’s consumer-price index rose 2.7 percent in July from
a year earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said today in
Beijing. That compared with the 2.8 percent median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  