-- German Government Bonds Decline Before Confidence Reports
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2013-08-09T16:25:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/german-government-bonds-decline-before-french-industrial-report.html
Spanish bonds advanced, with 10-year
yields dropping to the lowest in two months before reports next
week that economists said will show the euro-area pulled out of
recession and industrial production rose.  The nation’s  benchmark securities  rose for a fourth day as
signs the region is emerging from a record-long recession
spurred demand for higher-yielding assets. Greek securities also
rose, completing a fifth weekly gain. German bonds dropped this
week as investors appetite for safer assets waned. The volume of
bund futures traded dropped this week as investors awaited
 Germany ’s federal election and the  Federal Reserve ’s policy
meeting next month.  “Sentiment toward the peripherals has improved because the
economic data next week should show some improvement,” said
 Nick Stamenkovic , a fixed-income strategist at RIA Capital
Markets Ltd. in Edinburgh, referring to the bonds of  Europe ’s
high debt and deficit nations. “Volatility is low and the
backdrop looks supportive for Spanish bonds at the moment.”  Spain ’s 10-year yield fell two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 4.50 percent at the 5 p.m. close in  London 
after dropping to 4.48 percent, the lowest level since June 6.
The 4.4 percent bond due October 2023 rose 0.18, or 1.80 euros
per 1,000-euro ($1,333) face amount, to 99.245. The rate
declined seven basis points this week.  German Sentiment  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research will say its
index of German investor and analyst expectations climbed to
39.9 for August from 36.3 a month earlier, according to a
Bloomberg survey before the report is released on Aug. 13. Euro-area  gross domestic product  grew 0.2 percent in the three months
through June, snapping six quarters of contraction, a separate
survey showed before the data on Aug. 14.  Italian 10-year yields dropped one basis point to 4.19
percent. The extra yield of the securities over German bunds
shrank to as little as 248 basis points, the narrowest level
since May 23.  The rate on  Greece ’s 10-year bonds dropped four basis
points to 9.72 percent, extending this week’s decline to 22
basis points.  Germany’s 10-year bund yield was little changed at 1.68
percent, having risen three basis points this week.  ‘Stronger Evidence’  “Recent economic indicators out of the  euro zone  seem to
suggest the worst might be over in terms of recession,” said
Alessandro Giansanti, a senior interest-rate strategist at ING
Bank NV in Amsterdam. “There is room for German bond yields to
rise a bit further from here in the near term, but I don’t think
investors are confident enough to really sell core assets unless
we have stronger evidence on recovery.”  The Fed’s Open Market Committee holds its next policy
meeting on Sept. 17-18, while the German federal election is
scheduled for Sept. 22.  “Bonds are on autopilot through the summer lull and bund
volumes are extremely low,” said Marius Daheim, a senior fixed-income strategist at  Bayerische Landesbank  in Munich. “A lot of
people have decided that they want to be neutral at current
levels, until they see the outcome of the German elections and
what the Fed will do. As long as these things are looming,
people will just stay on the sidelines.”  Volatility on Austrian securities was the highest in euro-area markets today, followed by those of Spain and Ireland,
according to measures of 10-year debt, the yield spread between
two- and 10-year securities, and credit-default swaps.  Spanish bonds returned 7.1 percent this year through
yesterday, according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. Italy’s
securities gained 4.2 percent, while Germany’s fell 1.4 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  