-- German Regulators Said to Review Off-Balance-Sheet Loans
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2013-08-09T09:30:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/german-regulators-said-to-review-off-balance-sheet-loans.html
German regulators will review how the
country’s banks made loans that didn’t appear on their balance
sheets, obscuring the risk to investors, said two people briefed
on the talks.  The inquiry, led by the Bundesbank and Bafin, will focus on
whether banks properly applied accounting rules when making the
loans, said one of the people, who asked not to be identified
because the investigation hasn’t been made public. The review is
likely to take several months, the person added.  Regulators are scrutinizing the practice after  Bloomberg
News  reported that  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , the country’s biggest
financial firm, extended billions of dollars to banks since 2008
and made the loans disappear from its balance sheet even though
it is still owed the money. Borrowers included  Banca Monte dei
Paschi di Siena SpA , which is being bailed out by the Italian
government, and state-controlled  Banco do Brasil SA. (BBAS3)   Regulators “should take a closer look at these
activities,” said Klaus Nieding, vice president of DSW, a
proxy-voting agent representing small investors in German firms.
“The crucial question is: Why did the bank hide these loans?”  To keep loans off the balance sheet, Deutsche Bank used
International Financial Reporting Standards that allow certain
financial instruments to cancel each other if obligations are
settled simultaneously or net throughout the life of the deal.
The Bundesbank is examining how banks applied the guidelines,
known as IAS 32, the person said.  ‘An Obligation’  An official at Bundesbank declined to comment. Officials at
Bafin and at the Financial Reporting Enforcement Panel, which
examines the accounts of publicly-traded companies, both
declined to comment.  “We apply the accounting rules under IFRS meticulously,
conservatively and taking into account their intended spirit,
including for enhanced repurchase transactions, when we are
obligated to report our positions net of the high-quality
collateral that we hold,” said Kathryn Hanes, a spokeswoman for
Deutsche Bank in  London . “Reporting on a net basis is an
obligation, not an optional accounting treatment.”  Deutsche Bank Chief Financial Officer  Stefan Krause 
defended the practice last month, saying it’s common among
securities firms. Speaking on a conference call with analysts on
July 30, he said the transactions are “offered by banks
internationally as part of normal course of business.” The
impact of the loans is “negligible” for Deutsche Bank’s
capital ratios and the portfolio has never been “material”
since 2008, he said, without elaborating.  Thomas Blees, a spokesman for  KPMG  in Berlin, Deutsche
Bank’s auditor since 1990, didn’t have an immediate comment on
the review. Simon Steiner, a spokesman for Commerzbank AG, the
country’s second-biggest bank, also declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  