-- GMP Capital Misses Estimates on Slump in Investment Banking
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-08-09T20:08:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/gmp-capital-misses-estimates-as-slump-hits-investment-banking.html
GMP Capital Inc. (GMP) ,  Canada ’s second-biggest non-bank brokerage, missed analysts’ estimates for
second-quarter results after a slowdown in  investment banking .  The net loss attributable to GMP shareholders, excluding
non-controlling interests, narrowed to C$1.91 million ($1.85
million) from C$2.51 million a year earlier, the Toronto-based
firm said today in financial  statements . Revenue fell 3.8
percent to C$60.3 million.  “Revenue generation in the current environment of Canadian
capital markets continues to be a challenge, and we do not
expect that to change in the interim,” Sumit Malhotra, an
analyst with Macquarie Capital Markets in Toronto. said in a
note.  GMP said it lost 2 cents a share in the quarter after
excluding some items, missing the break-even average  estimate  of
four analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  GMP  fell  0.3 percent to C$6.27 at 4 p.m. in Toronto, paring
gains this year to 7.2 percent.  “Market conditions remained challenging for the quarter,
driven by very low levels of activity in the resource sectors,”
Chief Executive Officer Harris Fricker said in the statement.  The brokerage’s  capital markets  business was hurt by a 20
percent decline in revenue to C$45.4 million, largely due to
lower investment-banking fees “amid ongoing challenging market
conditions in the Canadian mid-market resource sectors,” the
firm said. GMP also posted C$7.1 million in pretax restructuring
charges in the unit.  “We have completed the bulk of the top personnel and
operational decisions necessary to properly position our firm in
the current market, but perhaps more importantly to excel for
the long-term in more normalized market conditions,” Fricker
said in a conference call after earnings were released.  GMP’s wealth-management business benefited from proceeds
from the sale of funds including GMP Diversified Alpha Fund and
the Canadian ABCP Fund to  Fiera Capital Corp. (FSZ)  for about C$10.8
million in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  