-- Gold Analysts Most Bearish Since June on Stimulus: Commodities
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-08-09T13:51:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/gold-analysts-most-bearish-since-june-on-stimulus-commodities.html
Gold traders are the most bearish in
seven weeks as investors weigh when the Federal Reserve will
reduce bond purchases and holdings of the metal in exchange-traded products dropped to a three-year low.  Fourteen analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect prices to
fall next week, nine were bullish and seven neutral, the largest
proportion of bears since the week ended June 21. Investors
reduced holdings in gold ETPs by the most in a month on Aug. 7,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Speculators’ holdings of short
contracts, or bets on lower prices, rose the most since mid-June
last week, according to government data.  The metal is heading for its worst year in three decades,
spurring losses for mining companies from AngloGold Ashanti Ltd.
to  Barrick Gold (ABX)  Corp., as investors lost faith in bullion as a
store of wealth. Gold jumped 70 percent from December 2008
through June 2011 as the Fed bought more than $2 trillion of
debt in a process known as quantitative easing. Three regional
Fed presidents said this week less stimulus may be warranted.  “It’s now more a question of when, not if, on tapering,
which can’t be good for gold,” said Matthew Turner, an analyst
at Macquarie Group Ltd. in London. “Gold has to get over QE and
move on.”  S&P GSCI  Gold fell 22 percent this year to $1,309.31 an ounce in
London, heading for the biggest annual loss since 1981. The
Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 commodities lost 2.4 percent
since the start of January and the MSCI All-Country World Index
of equities gained 11 percent. The Bloomberg U.S. Treasury Bond
Index fell 2.5 percent.  Charles Evans, Sandra Pianalto and Richard Fisher, regional
Fed presidents in  Chicago ,  Cleveland  and  Dallas , said this week
that the central bank may be closer to tapering bond buying as
the U.S. jobs market recovers. Evans is a voting member of the
Federal Open Market Committee, while Fisher and Pianalto don’t
vote on monetary policy. Jobless claims in the U.S. fell in the
four weeks ended Aug. 3 to the lowest since November 2007, the
Labor Department said yesterday.  Gold held in ETPs dropped to 1,946.92 tons yesterday, the
lowest since May 2010, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
combined value of the holdings is now $81.9 billion, compared
with $141.8 billion at the end of 2012. Almost $31 billion was
pulled from ETPs backed by gold this year, according to
BlackRock Inc. Investments in the SPDR Gold Trust, the biggest
fund backed by bullion, are the lowest since 2009.  Mining Writedowns  Mining companies announced at least $21 billion in
writedowns in the past two months. AngloGold Ashanti, the third-largest producer, reported a second-quarter net loss of $2.2
billion on Aug. 7, and said it would suspend its dividend and
cut 800 jobs. Barrick Gold, the top supplier, said Aug. 2 it
plans to sell, close, or cut output at 12 of its 27 mines.
AngloGold is based in Johannesburg and Barrick in Toronto.  Physical demand is rebounding after gold fell below $1,300,
Standard Bank said in a report Aug. 7. Bullion on the Shanghai
Gold Exchange was about $26 more expensive than in  London  on
Aug. 6, compared with a premium of less than $15 last week,
indicating strengthening demand, the bank said.  Premiums for gold bars in  India , the biggest consumer of
the metal, rose to $45 an ounce in the past week from $25 to $30
a week earlier, Barclays Plc said Aug. 5. The government doubled
a tax on inbound shipments to 8 percent this year and curbed
financing to tackle a surge in demand after bullion entered a
bear market in April.  Gold Vaults  Asian demand led banks from JPMorgan Chase & Co. to UBS AG
to Deutsche Bank AG to offer gold-storage services in  Singapore .
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. opened a vault that
can hold 50 tons of metal last month.  Hedge funds and other large speculators cut net-long
 positions  in gold by 6.5 percent in the week ended July 30,
after boosting bullish bets in the four preceding weeks, U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show. Bearish short
positions rose 6.8 percent, the biggest increase since the week
ended June 18.  Eight traders and analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect
copper to rise next week, five were bearish and six neutral. The
metal for delivery in three months, the London Metal Exchange’s
benchmark contract, rose to a two-month high today as  China ’s
industrial production expanded.  Six of 13 people surveyed expect raw sugar to fall next
week, four were bullish and three were neutral. The proportion
of bears was the highest in eight weeks. The commodity slid 13
percent to 16.92 cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in New York
this year.  Grain Bears  Corn and wheat traders were bearish for the ninth time in
10 weeks. Eighteen of 28 corn analysts surveyed anticipated
lower prices and nine were bullish. Fifteen of 25 wheat analysts
expected price declines and nine were bullish. Soybean traders
also were bearish, with 17 of 29 traders predicting declines.  U.S. farmers are expected to harvest record corn and
soybean crops this year. The U.S. Department of Agriculture is
scheduled to update its crop forecasts on Aug. 12. Corn futures
tumbled 34 percent this year, while soybeans dropped 16 percent
and wheat slid 16 percent.  “There’s really not a shortage of many key commodities out
there at the minute so that’s a main fundamental reason why the
market is turning bearish,” said Tom Pugh, a commodities
economist at Capital Economics in London. “You’ve seen corn and
soybeans basically plummet as people realize that the record
harvests in the U.S. are going to take place and that there’s
going to be an abundance of supply.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  