-- Golf Fans Fume as Blackout of CBS Threatens Tournament Viewing
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n   a n d   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-08-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/golf-fans-fume-as-blackout-of-cbs-threatens-tournament-viewing.html
Dennis Goodman watches about three
hours of golf on television every weekend, regardless of who’s
playing. He even bought a ticket to see a practice round in
person at this week’s PGA Championship in Rochester, New York.  The 67-year-old is also a subscriber of  Time Warner Cable
Inc. (TWC) , which has blacked out  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s network because of a
contract dispute. If CBS remains dark this weekend, more than 3
million customers in New York,  Los Angeles ,  Dallas  and other
markets won’t be able to watch the tournament on TV. They’ll
have to fire up the Internet to track the action, something that
doesn’t appeal to Goodman.  “It’s a bunch of garbage,” he said of the blackout, which
began almost a week ago after talks between the two sides broke
down. “I wouldn’t sit in front of a computer all day.”  The tournament represents the latest flashpoint between
Time Warner Cable and CBS, which are waging a battle with
implications for the entire industry. The pay-TV provider took
CBS off its system -- the first cable blackout in the history of
the network -- after balking at programming fee increases.  Time Warner Cable, the second-largest U.S. cable company,
is encouraging its subscribers to visit the PGA’s website, where
they can watch the tournament this weekend from 11 a.m. to 7
p.m. New York time. Time Warner Inc., the cable provider’s
former parent company, also is broadcasting some coverage
of the tournament on its TNT network.  Web Viewing  “We’re inviting all our customers without CBS who are golf
fans to catch complete  PGA Championship  coverage live on PGA.com
this weekend,” said Bobby Amirshahi, a spokesman for New York-based Time Warner Cable.  CBS, meanwhile, is suggesting that Time Warner Cable
customers drop the cable service and look elsewhere.  “In most instances, there do continue to be options for
fans to explore other programming providers, including Verizon
FiOS, RCN,  DirecTV (DTV)  and others,” said  Dana McClintock , a
spokesman for CBS in New York. “We look forward to being back
on the air as soon as possible.”  So far, the blackout hasn’t spurred a “noticeable” number
of defections, Amirshahi said.  For the PGA, the impasse comes at a troublesome time. The
tournament represents the last chance for  Tiger Woods  to capture
a major this year after faltering at the Masters, the  U.S. Open 
and the British Open. He has regained the world’s No. 1 ranking
this season, and fans are closely tracking his pursuit of  Jack Nicklaus ’s career record of 18 major titles.  No Positive  “We want as many households as possible to be able to
watch the PGA Championship,” Pete Bevacqua, chief executive
officer of the PGA of America, said in an interview at Oak Hill
Country Club, where the tournament is being played this week.
“That’s critical to us. Our mission is to grow the game. We are
certainly concerned. It’s not a positive for anybody.”  Even so, golf alone probably won’t spur the two sides to
reach an agreement, said  David Bank , a media analyst at  RBC
Capital Markets  in New York.  Last year’s PGA Championship weekend audience drew an
average of 3.69 million viewers on CBS, according to  Brad Adgate , director of research for Horizon Media Inc. in New York.
That’s about a third of the total viewership for the most recent
episode of “Under the Dome,” CBS’s hit summer drama.  The start of the National Football League season will
provide a bigger incentive to negotiate, though that is still
weeks away. While Time Warner Cable football fans will miss
preseason matchups this weekend, the regular games won’t begin
until early next month.  Far Away?  “This could go on for a while,” Bank said. “NFL regular-season kickoff is probably the catalyst to bring it to an end.”  While some discussions between CBS and Time Warner Cable
took place this week, the negotiations have largely been held
via the media. Time Warner Cable CEO Glenn Britt and CBS Chief
Les Moonves have traded open letters, with both sides accusing
the other of punishing customers.  The jockeying doesn’t interest Douglas Steel, a retired
graphics designer who lives in  Manhattan . He just wants to watch
the tournament from his Upper West Side apartment this weekend
without having to log onto the Internet.  “It’s stupid, the whole thing,” Steel said. “It would be
easier to watch it on my television rather than my iPad.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  