-- Michigan Localities Plan to Sell $28 Million of Debt Next Week
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-08-09T17:44:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/michigan-localities-plan-to-sell-28-million-of-debt-next-week.html
Michigan  issuers led by a school
district west of  Detroit  plan to sell $28 million of debt next
week, after at least three municipalities in the state put off
deals following the Motor City’s historic bankruptcy.  Ypsilanti Community Schools is set to borrow $18 million on
Aug. 14 to refinance notes, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Scott Menzel, Ypsilanti’s superintendent, says he’s ready to
“test the market,” though the district may pull the deal if
 interest rates  are too high, he said.  “Time is of the essence and so we have to proceed,”
Menzel said. He declined to specify at what interest-rate level
the deal might need to be postponed.  Michigan Finance Authority will issue the debt on behalf of
Ypsilanti, which is about a half-hour drive from Detroit, Menzel
said. The debt will be repaid through revenue from a state
school-aid program. The district will serve almost 4,200
students in the 2014 school year, Menzel said.  Standard & Poor’s today boosted its outlook on the district
to stable from negative, with a grade one step above junk.  Terry Stanton , spokesman for Treasurer Andy Dillon, didn’t immediately
return a phone message or e-mail seeking comment about the sale.  Borrowers Postpone  Saginaw County this week joined Genesee County and  Battle
Creek  among Michigan localities that have pushed off debt sales
since Detroit filed for  bankruptcy protection  on July 18.  The additional yield that investors demand to buy 10-year
Michigan debt rather than top-rated munis has doubled since the
bankruptcy filing, Bloomberg data show. Today’s yield spread of
0.53 percentage point compares with a 0.25 percentage point
difference the day before Detroit filed.  Michigan plans to sell about $10 million of transportation-refunding debt through competitive bid Aug. 13. The bonds will
be repaid with motor-fuel taxes, according to sale documents.
Moody’s Investors Service rates the deal Aa2, third-highest.  Myron Frierson, director of the Department of
Transportation’s finance and administration bureau, didn’t
immediately return a phone call or e-mail.  -- Editors: Mark Tannenbaum, Jeffrey Taylor  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  