-- Michigan Muni Sale Delays Rise to 3 as Snyder Stands By
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a   a n d   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2013-08-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/michigan-muni-sale-delays-rise-to-3-as-snyder-stands-by.html
Saginaw County joining at least two
other Michigan issuers in putting off municipal bond sales shows
the fallout from  Detroit ’s bankruptcy is greater than expected
by Governor  Rick Snyder  and Emergency Manager Kevyn Orr.  The county, about a two-hour drive north of Detroit,
delayed a $61 million debt sale because the interest rates
investors demanded were higher than it was willing to pay,
according to a statement from Philadelphia-based PFM Group’s
Public Financial Management unit. Genesee County and  Battle
Creek  have also put off deals since Detroit sought protection.  The postponed sales shouldn’t cause alarm that Detroit’s
bankruptcy is affecting Michigan’s ability to sell bonds, said
Sara Wurfel, a Snyder spokeswoman. Only two of the 651 Michigan
municipalities rated by  Standard & Poor’s  are scored below
investment grade, she said by e-mail.  “This kind of bond timing generally happens on a regular
basis anyway and ultimately it should all work out,” Wurfel
said. “There continue to be an abundance of sound, smart
investments to make in  Michigan  and our local communities.”  Investors in the $3.7 trillion municipal market have
demanded higher yields to own Michigan debt in the past month on
speculation that Orr’s plan to impose discounts on Detroit
general-obligation bonds of about 20 cents on the dollar would
set a precedent, especially in Michigan. Orr made the proposal
in June, before Detroit’s July 18 Chapter 9 bankruptcy.  Core Threat  The plan threatened the long-held belief that states and
cities will do whatever it takes to avoid defaulting on debt
they back. No municipal-debt issuer has used bankruptcy to force
a cut in principal on general-obligation bonds.  In interviews last month, Orr said it would be a
“reduction to the absurd” to think other cities should be
punished as a result of Detroit’s bankruptcy, while Snyder said
he expects bond buyers to be “sophisticated investors” and
differentiate Detroit’s situation from other municipalities.  Saginaw County, with about 198,000 residents, was set to
use the sale proceeds to finance unfunded pension liabilities of
about $60 million. Genesee County would have funded water-system
facilities. Battle Creek planned to finance improvements to its
police department, city hall and public parks.  “Investors can’t price a bond in Saginaw or Genesee or
Battle Creek if they don’t know what a general-obligation bond
means,” said  Erik Gordon , who teaches at the  University of
Michigan ’s Ross School of Business in  Ann Arbor . “When somebody
changes the rules of the game, there’s not much you can do about
it, and you don’t want to play again.”  Widening Spread  The extra yield investors demand to own 10-year general-obligation securities sold by Michigan rather than top-rated
municipal debt  rose  to 0.53 percentage point yesterday, the most
since Detroit’s bankruptcy, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The spread averaged about 0.45 percentage point this
year as Detroit’s fiscal crisis escalated.  Saginaw County’s sale of taxable debt will be put off
until more favorable interest rates are offered, Controller
Robert Belleman said.  “We’re just going to monitor the market, we’re looking to
see if  Treasuries (USGG10YR)  come back down,” Belleman said by telephone.
“Between Treasuries and what investors believe they needed fell
outside of our parameters.”  Belleman said he didn’t know if the Detroit bankruptcy had
an effect.  Distant Detroit  “You’ll have to ask investors,” he said. “I think we’re
so far away, Detroit doesn’t impact me. I don’t think they were
fully recognizing” the county’s credit rating, he said.  The county wants to take advantage of a new state law that
lets municipalities use bonds to finance pension obligations,
Belleman said. It closed its defined-benefit pension to new
participants in 2000, he said.  The county’s general-obligation debt sale was set to be the
largest in Michigan since Detroit entered bankruptcy.  The county gauged investor interest before delaying the
offer, according to three people familiar with the sale who
asked not to be identified because the pricing wasn’t final. A
portion maturing in 2023 was offered at a yield of about 1.7
percentage points more than benchmark 10-year Treasury notes,
the people said. The debt is rated Aa3 by Moody’s Investors
Service, its fourth-highest level.  Battle Creek, a city about 120 miles (190 kilometers) west
of Detroit, is also rated Aa3 by Moody’s. Finance Director Linda
Morrison said its sale will be pushed back a month because of
unfavorable  interest rates . Detroit’s bankruptcy has probably
made the  bond market  more volatile, she said by telephone.  “It’s hard to put your finger on what’s causing all of
this,” Morrison said. “There’ve been so few issuers because of
the bankruptcy filing.”  “We want to give the market a little bit of time to
stabilize,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  