-- High-Yield Bonds Gain for Sixth Week in Europe as Sales Slow
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l   a n d   N a t a s h a   D o f f
-- 2013-08-09T11:31:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/high-yield-bonds-gain-for-sixth-week-in-europe-as-sales-slow.html
Junk-rated (BEUH)  corporate bonds rose for a
sixth week in Europe, paring a selloff in June after the cost of
insuring securities against losses fell to the lowest in two
weeks. Debt sales slowed.  High-yield bonds returned 0.2 percent this week, bringing
the six-week gain to 2.1 percent after the securities lost an
average 2.3 percent in June, according to Bloomberg bond index
data. The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-default swaps
on 50 high-yield companies was little changed this week at 399
basis points at 12:26 p.m. in  London . The gauge fell to a two-week low of 392 on Aug. 5.  European debt markets are recovering after Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled the central bank may taper
quantitative easing if the  U.S. economy  continues to improve.
The extra yield investors demand to hold high-yield bonds in
euros rather than  government securities  fell 7.7 basis points
this week to 395 basis points, close to a more than two-month
low of 392 on Aug. 6, according to Bloomberg bond index data.  “Credit markets have been fairly resilient so far in
August,” said Joseph Faith, a credit strategist at Citigroup
Inc. in London. “Uncertainty may rise again going into
September but we still expect spreads to end the year tighter
than where they are now.”  Sales of corporate bonds slowed this week to 3.6 billion
euros ($4.8 billion), the least for any week this year and below
the average of 14.4 billion euros since the start of the year,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  AA Group Ltd., the roadside recovery and insurance division
of Acromas Holdings Ltd., is adding to its 300 million-pounds
($466 million) of securities maturing July 2018 and 325 million-pounds of bonds due July 2025 today. The company’s AA Bond Co
Ltd. unit is selling more of notes that were sold on June 25 and
are rated BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s , its lowest investment-grade
ranking.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net ;
Natasha Doff in London at 
 ndoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  