-- Indonesia Coffee Delivery Seen by Volcafe Falling on Eid
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-08-09T15:51:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/indonesia-coffee-delivery-seen-by-volcafe-falling-on-eid.html
Coffee deliveries from farms in
 Indonesia , the world’s third-biggest robusta grower, tumbled
this week because of the Muslim holiday of Eid, according to
Volcafe, a unit of commodities trader ED&F Man Holdings Ltd.  Bean arrivals were about 2,500 to 3,000 metric tons this
week, the Winterthur, Switzerland-based trader said in a report
e-mailed today. That compares with 26,000 tons last week.
Indonesia is harvesting its 2013-14 crop that started in April
and production will fall 12 percent to 9.2 million bags, the
 U.S. Department of Agriculture  estimates. Eid is the festival
that marks the end of the Muslim fasting month of Ramadan.  “Business is basically at a standstill as nearly all
exporters are closed due to the Eid-ul-Fitr holiday,” Volcafe
wrote in a report e-mailed today. “Wet weather persists,
causing quality problems.”  Scattered showers and thunderstorms will form throughout
northern Indonesia from today to Aug. 11, AccuWeather said in a
report today. Amounts will vary from 0.2 inch to 0.6 inch, with
local downpours of 1 inch to 2 inches along the coast of Sumatra
and in parts of Borneo, the forecaster said. Indonesia’s main
coffee growing region is southern Sumatra.  Buyers of coffee from Indonesia for shipment in September
and October were paying a premium of $110 a ton over the futures
on the NYSE Liffe exchange in  London , according to Volcafe. That
compares with $100 last week, data from the trader showed.  In  Vietnam , the world’s leading robusta grower, demand is
increasing and it’s cheaper to buy coffee on NYSE Liffe than
from local farmers, Volcafe said. Vietnamese beans for shipment
in September and October were at a premium of $90 a ton to the
exchange price, unchanged from last week, the trader said.  Rupee’s Decline  In  India ,  Asia ’s third-biggest coffee grower, coffee was
offered for sale at cheaper prices as the rupee slid. India’s
currency, which has slumped 12 percent against the  U.S. dollar 
in the past six months, fell to a record low of 61.8050 on Aug.
6. The currency is the second worst performer among 24
counterparts in  emerging markets .  Robusta coffee for delivery in November was 1.8 percent
higher at $1,943 a ton by 4:17 p.m. in London. Prices reached
$1,943 a ton, the highest in two weeks.  -- Editors:  John Deane , Sharon Lindores  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  