-- InterContinental, Expedia Offer Remedies in U.K. Discounts Probe
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-08-09T07:50:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/intercontinental-expedia-offer-remedies-in-u-k-discounts-probe.html
InterContinental Hotels Group Plc (IHG) ,
 Expedia Inc. (EXPE)  and a unit of  Priceline.com Inc. (PCLN)  proposed
commitments in a bid to allay antitrust concerns by U.K.
regulators over deals that may have limited online discounts for
hotel-room sales.  The  Office of Fair Trading  said it started a consultation
on proposals by the companies to address concerns it raised last
year. The antitrust authority said at the time that
InterContinental, the world’s largest provider of rooms, may
have made deals with Priceline’s Booking.com and Expedia that
restricted the ability of the two online-booking companies to
offer lower prices when rooms were sold separately from flights
or car rentals.  “The OFT is consulting on whether these commitments offer
an immediate and effective means of injecting some meaningful
price competition into the online offering of room only hotel
accommodation bookings where, in our provisional view, none may
exist,” Ann Pope, senior director in the OFT’s services,
infrastructure and public markets group, said in the statement.
“Under the proposed commitments,” online travel agents “would
be able to offer discounts off hotel room bookings to qualifying
consumers.”  The agreements may have prevented more online sales of
hotel rooms, the OFT said last year. Sales of hotel rooms in the
U.K. generated around 10.1 billion pounds ($15.7 billion) in
revenue in 2010, the OFT has said. About 8 percent of those
sales, or 849 million pounds, were booked using online travel
agents, it said, citing figures from consumer-research company
Euromonitor International.  InterContinental, the owner of the Holiday Inn and Crowne
Plaza hotels brands, said in a statement that the commitments
are designed to bring an end to the investigation without a
penalty or finding of wrongdoing from the regulator. It said it
worked closely with the OFT to agree on the commitments.  The OFT said it’s seeking comments from interested groups
until Sept. 13 before it decides whether to accept the
commitments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Brussels at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  