-- IOC’s Rogge Wants Clarification Over Russia Anti-Gay Laws
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-08-09T12:42:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/ioc-s-rogge-wants-clarification-over-russia-anti-gay-laws.html
International Olympic Committee
President  Jacques Rogge  is seeking clarification from  Russia  on
an anti-gay law which has led to worldwide protests ahead of
next year’s  Winter Olympics  in Sochi.  Russian President  Vladimir Putin  last month signed a law
enacting a ban and maximum fine of 1 million rubles ($30,438) on
“propaganda of non-traditional sexual relations” among minors.
Foreign citizens charged under the law face as long as 15 days
in jail and deportation.  On Aug. 1, Russian Sports Minister Vitaly Mutko said the
law will be enforced during the 2014  Winter Games , which start
on Feb. 7 in the Black Sea resort of Sochi.  “The law was adopted and we received assurances from the
head organizer of the Sochi Olympics,” Rogge said at a press
conference in Moscow on the eve of track and field’s world
championships. “We asked for and received the assurances in
writing but we are still seeking clarifications on two
paragraphs in which we are not clear about the translation of
the Russian law.”  The measure has sparked global controversy, from calls for
a boycott of the Sochi Games by British actor Stephen Fry to gay
bars in the U.S. dumping Russian vodka. U.S. President  Barack Obama  criticized the law three days ago, saying he had “no
patience for countries that try to treat gays or lesbians or
transgender persons in ways that intimidate them or are harmful
to them.”  Rogge, a former yachtsman from  Belgium  who will retire from
the IOC next month, said the rules of the Olympic Charter needed
to be respected.  “The charter is very clear,” he said. “Sport is a human
right and should be available to all regardless of race, sex,
sexual orientation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  