-- J Trust Makes Bid for Bankrupt Index Corp. in Takeover Push
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i
-- 2013-08-09T08:13:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/j-trust-makes-offer-for-index-corp-in-bid-to-tap-online-clients.html
J Trust Co. (8508) , the Japanese financial
services firm 5 percent owned by Goldman Sachs Group Inc., aims
to use cash raised through a record rights offering to fund
takeover bids, including bankrupt game maker  Index (TPX)  Corp.  J Trust made a preliminary offer for the  software
developer , which specializes in mobile gaming and applications,
as part of a client-boosting strategy, Chief Executive Officer
Nobuyoshi Fujisawa, 43, said in an interview. Tokyo-based J
Trust can spend as much as 130 billion yen ($1.3 billion) in
cash on buyouts without seeking external financing, he said.  Index, which makes software for smartphones and Nintendo
Co.’s 3-D handheld players, has drawn interest from about 20
potential bidders including  Sega Sammy Holdings Inc. (6460)  and aims to
reach a sales agreement by the end of the month, two people
familiar with the matter said last week. J Trust last month
raised 97.7 billion yen in Japan’s biggest-ever rights offer.  “It’s a good idea to buy companies that do communication
and application businesses for smartphones and tap their client
bases to market our financial services,” Fujisawa said on Aug.
5, citing the successes of online retailer  Rakuten Inc. (4755)  and
Yahoo Japan Corp. They “started as providers of Internet
services and grew bigger by attracting existing customers into
their financial businesses.”  Offers for Index in the first-round of bidding reached as
much as 20 billion yen, one of the people said.  Shares Decline  J Trust  shares  today closed 3.7 percent lower at 2,075 yen
on the Tokyo Stock Exchange after slipping as much as 7.6
percent. The benchmark Topix Index gained 0.1 percent and has
risen 33 percent this year.  Japan ’s stock market rally fueled by Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s campaign to end deflation and stimulate growth helped J
Trust raise almost twice as much as originally planned in its
rights offering, according to Fujisawa.  The firm’s share price has jumped 41 percent so far this
year, even after a 51 percent slide following the offering
announcement. The company on May 14 said it planned to issue
63.1 million shares at 1,800 yen apiece, giving shareholders one
new share for each share owned.  With the unexpected windfall, Fujisawa is now interested in
the acquisition of Southeast Asian banks and domestic credit
card companies, he said.  J Trust, whose predecessor was established in 1977,
provides services ranging from real estate brokering to consumer
lending and credit cards. The company posted  net income  of 13.3
billion yen in the year ended March 31, a 61 percent drop from a
year earlier.  A winning bid for Index would add to  J Trust ’s list of
assets acquired out of bankruptcy. The firm bought failed
consumer lenders Lopro Corp. in 2010 and Takefuji Corp. in 2012.  “Acquisition of companies that have filed for  bankruptcy
protection  have contributed to our expansion in the past,” said
Fujisawa. “We now need to find out if this potential takeover
would open up possibilities for further expansion.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Takako Taniguchi in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  