-- Asia Dollar Debt Gains for First Week in Three as Sales Stall
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2013-08-09T03:50:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/japan-bond-risk-falls-to-two-week-low-credit-default-swaps-show.html
U.S. dollar-denominated bonds sold by
Asian issuers  gained  this week for the first period since the
five days ending July 19 as debt offerings stalled.  Notes from the region returned 0.5 percent as of Aug. 8,
with Macau, Mongolia and China leading advances, JPMorgan Chase
& Co. indexes show. Average  yields  on dollar securities in the
region outside  Japan  fell 7 basis points to 5.3 percent, the
most this month, the indexes show.  South Korea ’s SK Innovation Co., an oil refiner and
distributor, and Hyundai Capital America, a financing company
indirectly owned by the nation’s Hyundai Motor Co., were the
last companies from the region to sell debt in the U.S.
currency, raising $350 million and $1 billion respectively on
Aug. 6, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Sales then halted as
 Singapore ,  Malaysia  and  Indonesia  broke for national holidays
today and yesterday.  “We’ve already seen some of the pipeline and as the market
stabilizes we should see more, but the tone is still
tentative,” said Edwin Chan, the Hong Kong-based head of Asian
credit research at UBS AG. “The performance of recent new deals
certainly helps.”  SK Innovation’s August 2018 bonds were quoted at 100.953
cents on the dollar as of 11:19 a.m. in Hong Kong, after being
sold to investors at 99.683, Bloomberg prices show.  Credit Risk  Hyundai Motor’s $500 million of 2.875 percent notes due
2018, sold at 99.7 cents on the dollar, were quoted at 100.022
cents as of 11:24 a.m., Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc prices
on Bloomberg show.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan was little changed at 145.5 basis points
as of 8:49 a.m. in  Hong Kong , RBS prices show. The benchmark is
on course for its first weekly decrease in three, according to
CMA.  The cost of insuring corporate bonds from non-payment in
Japan fell to the lowest in more than two weeks, according to
credit-default swap traders.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index declined 2 basis points to 93
basis points as of 9:30 a.m. in  Tokyo , Citigroup Inc. prices
show. The measure is poised for its second daily decrease and
lowest close since July 23, according to data provider CMA.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index was also unchanged at 119
as of 10:36 a.m. in Sydney, according to National Australia Bank
Ltd. The gauge is also headed for its first weekly decrease
since the period through July 19, according to CMA, which is
owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers
in the privately negotiated market.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  