-- Japan’s Debt Exceeds 1 Quadrillion Yen as Abe Mulls Tax Rise
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2013-08-09T05:51:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/japan-s-debt-surpasses-1-quadrillion-yen-as-abe-weighs-tax-rise.html
Japan ’s national debt exceeded 1,000
trillion yen for the first time, underscoring the case for Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe to proceed with a  sales-tax  increase to
shore up government finances.  The country’s outstanding public debt including borrowings
reached a record 1,008.6 trillion yen ($10.46 trillion) as of
June 30, up 1.7 percent from three months earlier, the  finance
ministry  said in  Tokyo  today. Larger than the economies of
 Germany ,  France  and the U.K. combined, the amount includes 830.5
trillion yen in government bonds.  The world’s heaviest debt burden will weigh on Abe when he
decides next month whether to implement a two-step plan to
double the tax on consumers in a nation with ballooning welfare
costs. While boosting the levy would drag on growth, Moody’s
Investors Service yesterday warned that a worsening of
finances would erode confidence in  government bonds .  “Ballooning public debt underlines the need for Abe to
push for a sales-tax increase,” said Long Hanhua Wang, an
economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in Tokyo. “This
is a minimum policy requirement for his government.”  The levy on consumption is due to be raised to 8 percent in
April from the current 5 percent, followed by an increase to 10
percent in October 2015. Abe said he would make a final call on
the plan after the release of revised second-quarter gross
domestic product data on Sept. 9.  The sales-tax law enacted last year gives Abe the power to
postpone the rise should he conclude that the economy is unable
to weather the austerity measure.  Expert Panel  The prime minister yesterday ordered the creation of a
panel of experts to analyze the impact on the economy of a
higher levy. Advocates of an increase including  Bank of Japan 
Governor Haruhiko Kuroda and Finance Minister Taro Aso will
stand in the committee.  Etsuro Honda, an economic adviser to Abe, called this week
for a shallower path of increases to ease the burden on
households. Another adviser, retired Yale University professor
Koichi Hamada, said the BOJ should be prepared to add stimulus
if the sales-tax rise hurts the economy.  The country’s debt is  more than twice  the size of the
economy, and its fiscal deficit will expand to 10.3 percent of
GDP this year from 9.9 percent in 2012, according to OECD  data 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Japan will still run a primary budget balance deficit
equivalent to 2 percent of the economy in the fiscal year
starting April 2020 even if it raises the tax as planned, a
Cabinet Office estimate showed yesterday.  Overall social welfare benefits rose to 103 trillion yen in
2010 from 47 trillion yen in 1990, according to data compiled by
the National Institute of Population and Social Security
Research.  “Tax reform and containment of social security expenditure
would further reduce the government’s budget deficit and enhance
its debt-servicing capacity,”  Thomas Byrne , senior vice
president at Moody’s, wrote in a report yesterday.  For Related News and Information:
BOJ Seen Adding Stimulus by June as Inflation Goal Elusive
Abe Aide Hamada Calls for BOJ Easing If Sales Tax Hurts Economy
Aso: Don’t Expect Sales Tax Hike to Cause Slowdown Like in 1997  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  