-- Juniper Falls After Disclosing Foreign Bribe Investigations
-- B y   J o r d a n   R o b e r t s o n   a n d   C a l l i e   B o s t
-- 2013-08-09T20:09:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/juniper-falls-after-disclosing-foreign-practices-investigations.html
Juniper Networks Inc. (JNPR)  fell the most
in more than three months after disclosing that it’s being
investigated for possible violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act.  The shares fell 5.6 percent to $20.92 at the close in New
York, the biggest decline since April 24. The U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission and the Department of Justice are both
conducting investigations, the Sunnyvale, California-based
company disclosed in a filing yesterday.  Juniper, the No. 2 maker of networking equipment, generated
more than half of its sales outside the U.S. in 2012, according
to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
prohibits U.S. companies from paying bribes to foreign officials
to win business. The company is cooperating with the
investigations and “can’t predict the scope or duration,” said
Michael Busselen, a spokesman for Juniper.  John Nester , a spokesman for the SEC, and Peter Carr, a
Justice Department spokesman, declined to comment.  In many instances, companies are investigated under the
FCPA because distributors or resellers don’t have strong
internal controls to prevent bribery, according to Jayson Noland, an analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co. in San Francisco.  ‘Little Messy’  “It can get a little messy on who’s selling to who,”
Noland, who has a neutral rating on the shares, said in an
interview. “Maybe with Juniper there’s a carrier involved.”  Juniper’s biggest customer outside the U.S. is China Mobile
Ltd., according to supply-chain  data  compiled by Bloomberg. The
company, along with  VST Holdings Ltd. (856)  in  Hong Kong  and  Deutsche
Telekom AG (DTE) , accounts for about 10 percent of Juniper’s revenue.  Other large technology companies have dealt with similar
investigations in recent years.  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , the largest maker of database software,
agreed last year to pay $2 million to settle SEC claims that it
violated FCPA by failing to prevent a subsidiary from secretly
setting aside money off the company’s books that was used to
make unauthorized payments to phony vendors in India.  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  in 2011 agreed to pay
$10 million to settle charges that it violated the FCPA by
paying bribes to officials in South Korea and China. In 2010,
the U.S. Justice Department and SEC joined a probe by German
prosecutors as to whether  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  employees engaged
in bribery, embezzlement and tax evasion in Russia.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jordan Robertson in San Francisco at 
 jrobertson40@bloomberg.net ;
Callie Bost in New York at 
 cbost2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  