-- Natural Gas Futures Decline in Survey on Stockpile Outlook
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a
-- 2013-08-09T11:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/natural-gas-futures-decline-in-survey-on-stockpile-outlook.html
Natural gas futures may drop next
week on forecasts for cooler weather that would widen an
inventory surplus of the fuel over the five-year average.  Eight of 13 analysts, or 62 percent, predicted that futures
will fall on the New York Mercantile Exchange through Aug. 16.
Four, or 31 percent, said gas will stay the same and one said
prices will advance. Last week, 55 percent of participants said
gas would decline.  Temperatures will be average or below in the eastern two-thirds of the U.S. through Aug. 22, according to Commodity
Weather Group LLC in Bethesda,  Maryland . A government report
yesterday showed a larger-than-normal  stockpile increase  for
last week that turned a supply deficit over the five-year
average into a surplus.  “We’re going to see continued solid injections into
storage as we trade the September contracts and move closer to
the shoulder period,” said Jason Schenker, president of
Prestige Economics in Austin,  Texas . Gas demand declines during
the so-called shoulder periods of spring and fall as the weather
becomes milder.  Natural gas futures slid 5 cents, or 1.5 percent, to $3.297
per million British thermal units during the first four days of
this week on the Nymex. The futures are down 1.6 percent this
year after gaining as much as 33 percent when prices touched a
21-month high of $4.444 on May 1.  Inventory Gain  The Energy Information Administration’s inventory report
showed stockpiles climbed 96 billion cubic feet in the week
ended Aug. 2 to 2.941 trillion. Analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg predicted an increase of 79 billion. The EIA number
included about 14 billion cubic feet reclassified to working gas
from base.  The inventory gain was more than twice the five-year
average advance for the week of 42 billion cubic feet, EIA data
show. Supplies were 0.7 percent above the five-year average,
rising to a  surplus  for the first time since March.  The high in New York on Aug. 16 may be 77 degrees
Fahrenheit (25 Celsius), 6 lower than usual, according to
 AccuWeather Inc.  in State College,  Pennsylvania . Temperatures in
 Chicago  may reach 79 Fahrenheit, 3 less than average.  Power generation accounts for 32 percent of U.S. gas
demand, according to the EIA, the Energy Department’s
statistical arm.  The gas survey has correctly forecast the direction of
prices 50 percent of the time since its June 2004 introduction.  Bloomberg’s survey of natural-gas analysts and traders asks
for an assessment of whether Nymex gas futures will probably
rise, fall or remain neutral in the coming week. This week’s
results were:  RISE   FALL   NEUTRAL  1      8      4  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Buurma in New York at 
 cbuurma1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  