-- Neiman Said to Draw Interest From CVC, KKR as It Weighs IPO
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2013-08-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/neiman-said-to-draw-interest-from-cvc-kkr-as-it-weighs-ipo.html
CVC Capital Partners Ltd. and KKR &
Co. have expressed interest in buying Neiman Marcus Inc., the
luxury retailer that filed for an initial public offering in
June, people familiar with the matter said.  Neiman Marcus’s owners, TPG Capital and Warburg Pincus LLC,
began exploring an auction or an IPO in May, said the people,
who asked not to be named because the process is private.
Selling the retailer to another buyout firm may provide a
quicker exit than an IPO, one person said. The deliberations are
at an early stage and may not yield a deal, the people said.  Price could be a barrier as private-equity suitors may be
reluctant to pay more than 9 times Neiman Marcus’s earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, said one
person. Based on Neiman Marcus’s adjusted Ebitda of $623 million
in the 12 months through April, that would be about $5.6
billion, compared with the $5.1 billion TPG and Warburg paid for
the retailer in 2005.  Neiman Marcus’s owners, which are working with Credit
Suisse Group AG on the IPO, were seeking as much as $8 billion
in a sale, two people familiar with the matter said in May. Any
private-equity firm would also likely seek a partner on the
equity portion of the deal, according to one person.  Representatives at Neiman Marcus, Warburg, TPG, CVC and KKR
declined to comment.  Longer Wait  Private-equity owners, which can sell their entire
ownership in a company in a private sale, typically would have
to wait much longer for a full exit after an IPO. The owners, in
a public offering, would typically sell a small stake and then
be restricted through agreements with other shareholders known
as “lockups” from selling additional stock for as much as six
months afterward.  KKR had also weighed an investment in luxury retailer  Saks
Inc. (SKS)  and considered seeking a merger with Neiman Marcus as part
of that plan, people familiar with the matter said in May.
Instead,  Canada ’s  Hudson’s Bay Co. (HBC)  last month agreed to buy New
York-based Saks for $2.4 billion.  Neiman Marcus runs 41 stores under the same name across the
U.S. and two Bergdorf Goodman department stores on New York
City’s Fifth Avenue, according to its June IPO filing. The
company generated $4.5 billion in revenue in the year ended
April.  Revenue has failed to increase past pre-financial crisis
levels at Neiman Marcus, as so-called aspirational shoppers have
been slow to return to stores. Luxury spending in the Americas
grew 5 percent on a constant-currency basis in 2012, less than
half the 13 percent gain of the previous year, according to Bain
& Co. estimates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Welch in  New York  at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  