-- New Jersey Investment Director Walsh Jumps to Gaw Capital
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g   a n d   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2013-08-09T23:47:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/new-jersey-investment-director-resigns-for-real-estate-job-1-.html
Timothy Walsh , director of  New
Jersey ’s investment division for the past three years, is
resigning to oversee North American operations for Hong Kong-based real estate investor Gaw Capital Partners.  Walsh, 50, said he’ll be the Chicago-based president and
chief operating officer of Gaw Capital North America. He’ll
focus on increasing the firm’s investments in U.S. real estate
and on raising money from institutional investors. Walsh said
Gaw Capital plans to amass a property fund of about $500
million.  “Their goal is to really develop their U.S. operations,”
with a focus on hotels and office buildings, Walsh said by
telephone. “They’re known more for their operations in  China 
but they also have a very extensive U.S. track record for family
assets and some select investors.”  Walsh said he plans to start the job immediately after
leaving his New Jersey post on Aug. 30. He said he expects to
spend considerable time in  California , where a Gaw Capital
affiliate, Downtown Properties, is based in  Los Angeles . Walsh’s
hiring was reported earlier today by Pensions & Investments.  The resignation was announced today by New Jersey Treasurer
Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff. State Investment Council Chairman
 Robert Grady  is leading a search committee to select a
replacement, according to the treasurer’s office.  Interim Replacement  Chris McDonough, a Walsh deputy and former chief investment
officer for the Philadelphia pensions and retirement board, will
take the job on an interim basis. A permanent replacement is
expected at the start of next year, Sidamon-Eristoff said.  The investment division oversees $74 billion for retirees
and $12 billion in a cash-management fund used for state and
municipal short-term financings. New Jersey’s seven public-employee pension funds cover more than 780,000 working and
retired teachers, police officers and government workers.  New Jersey hasn’t invested with Gaw Capital, Walsh said.  For the three years ended June 30, 2012, the pension fund’s
total return was 11 percent per year, according to Eristoff’s
statement. The fiscal 2011 gain of 18 percent was the fund’s
best in 13 years.  Grady said Walsh helped to negotiate lower fees with
advisers and increased the funds’ diversity. In a statement,
Walsh said his colleagues in the Garden State “made the last
three years a very rewarding time in my life.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton  at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net ;
Hui-yong Yu in  Seattle  at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  