-- News Corp. Australian CEO Williams Resigns Amid Local Review
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-08-09T06:56:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/news-corp-australian-ceo-williams-resigns-amid-local-review.html
News Corp.’s  Australia  chief, Kim Williams, resigned from the company as  New York  Post Editor-in -
Chief Col Allan reviews its local newspapers amid pre-election
clashes with the country’s Prime Minister Kevin Rudd.  Williams, a near-20 year veteran of the company, will be
replaced by Julian Clarke, the company headed by Rupert Murdoch
said in a regulatory statement today. Clarke retired in 2007 as
chairman of the Herald and Weekly Times, a News Corp. unit that
publishes the country’s biggest-selling newspaper, Melbourne’s
Herald Sun.  Allan will be “providing extra editorial leadership” to
News Corp.’s local papers for two to three months, according to
an internal e-mail from Group Chief Executive Officer Robert Thomson sent July 26 seen by Bloomberg News. Murdoch is seeking
to “get rid of” Australia’s government in a Sept. 7 election,
Rudd said this week after Sydney’s best-selling Daily Telegraph
urged readers to “Kick This Mob Out” in a front-page editorial
Aug. 5.  “It certainly appears to be a very political decision,”
 Angus Gluskie , managing director of White Funds Management Pty.,
said by telephone from Sydney. “It certainly seems as though
Murdoch wants a particular viewpoint expressed, and that’s got a
number of issues. It’s right at the heart of the independence of
the press.”  Right Moment  Williams felt “now is the right moment to leave”, Thomson
said in today’s statement announcing his departure. Stephen Browning, a Sydney-based spokesman for News Corp. Australia,
declined to comment further on the reasons for his departure.  Shares in the local listing of News Corp. fell 0.1 percent
to close at A$17.84 in Sydney, compared with a 0.2 percent
decline in the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index.  News Corp. Australia runs newspapers including the Herald
Sun, Daily Telegraph, and the country’s sole national general-interest broadsheet, the Australian. It also has a 50 percent
stake in pay-television company Foxtel alongside Telstra Corp.,
giving it what Australia’s antitrust regulator calls a near-monopoly on subscription television.  There may be connections between Williams’ departure, the
editorial stance of News Corp. newspapers, and Murdoch’s
business interests in Foxtel, Rudd told reporters in  Melbourne 
today.  “If you look at the front pages of the News Ltd. tabloid
papers, as well as the Australian” there is a “fairly
consistent pattern” he said, referring to the former business
name of News Corp.’s local publishing unit. Allan had told local
editors to “go hard” in attacking the government and not back
off, Rudd told reporters, without saying where he got the
information.  News Corp.’s Browning declined to comment on Rudd’s
statements.  Bloomberg LP competes with News Corp. units in the market
for financial information services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  