-- Nokian Renkaat Rises as Raw-Material Costs Help Earnings
-- B y   K a s p e r   V i i t a
-- 2013-08-09T11:00:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/nokian-renkaat-scales-back-forecasts-on-central-europe.html
Nokian Renkaat Oyj (NRE1V) , the Nordic
region’s largest tiremaker, rose to a four-month high after
saying it will maintain profitability as declining raw-material
costs make up for a fall in sales in central Europe.  Nokian Renkaat jumped as much as 4.6 percent to 35.19
euros, the highest intraday price since April 8. The stock
traded up 3.8 percent at 1:57 p.m. in the Finnish capital in the
biggest gain on the benchmark  OMX Helsinki 25 Index. (HEX25)  Volume was
more than double the three-month daily average. The stock has
risen 16 percent this year, valuing the company at 4.63 billion
euros ($6.19 billion).  Global rubber stockpiles will probably expand to the
highest in more than a decade as slower economic growth damps
demand, researcher Rubber Economist estimated in June. A
forecast 9.5 percent reduction in raw-material costs in 2013
will give Nokian Renkaat a “tailwind” of about 45 million
euros, the manufacturer said today in a statement, in which it
also said revenue and earnings may fail to rise this year.  “The results had a more positive tone than competitors,”
Tom Skogman, an analyst at Svenska Handelsbanken AB, said in an
interview. A “slight” forecast reduction was already expected,
based on competitors’ recent comments, he said.  Second-quarter operating profit rose 6.7 percent from a
year earlier to 120.2 million euros as revenue increased 1.3
percent to 419.1 million euros, the Nokia, Finland-based company
said. The operating margin widened to 28.7 percent of sales from
27.2 percent in the 2012 period.  ‘Positive’ Margins  “Margins were a positive aspect,” Skogman said. “Nokian
Renkaat has lower cost levels and a better distribution network,
which takes many years to build.”  The tiremaker forecast that net sales and operating profit
may be unchanged from 2012 or show “some growth.” That
compares with an earlier prediction that both measures would
increase.  Second-quarter earnings were “solid,” Bernard Donges, a
London-based analyst at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, said
today in a report to clients. The company’s forecast drop in
raw-material costs exceeds the 6 percent drop estimated by
Merrill Lynch, the analyst said.  Continental AG, Europe’s second-biggest tire producer, and
Italian competitor  Pirelli SpA (PC)  scaled back full-year forecasts
amid a contraction in the region’s car market.  Michelin & Cie. (ML) ,
the European tire-industry leader, and auto-component producer
Faurecia SA reported first-half profit declines exceeding 10
percent. Michelin stuck to a forecast of “stable” operating
profit and “steady” volume.  Competitive ‘Blocking’  “Our view on the Russian market development doesn’t differ
much from our competitors, but the view on inventory levels is
different,” Nokian Renkaat Chief Executive Officer Kim Gran
said at a briefing in Helsinki today. “Some have been whining
about blocked distribution. We don’t have that problem, as it’s
our stuff that’s blocking other guys’ tires.”  Central European demand for tires will probably fall, while
sales will grow in  Russia , Nokian Renkaat’s most important
market, as well as in Nordic countries and North America, the
tiremaker said. Tire pricing is “challenging,” the company
said.  “The company’s margins endured the challenging environment
in an excellent way,” Mikael Rautanen and Sauli Vilen, analysts
at Inderes Oy, said in a report to clients. Nokian Renkaat’s
earnings statement “is apt to remove uncertainties about the
resilience of the company’s margins.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasper Viita in Helsinki at 
 kviita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  