-- North Sea Crude Liquidity Soars on Platts Quality Premium
-- B y   L a u r a   H u r s t
-- 2013-08-09T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/north-sea-crude-liquidity-soars-on-platts-quality-premium.html
Trading in two  North Sea crudes  has
jumped almost eightfold on the Platts platform after quality
premiums were introduced to boost liquidity and enhance Dated
Brent’s stature as a global oil benchmark.  Oseberg and Ekofisk cargoes were bid, offered and traded by
identified companies 64 times in what’s known as the Platts
window from May to July, up from eight in the first four months
of the year, data provided by the price publisher show.  Platts, a unit of New York-based  McGraw Hill Financial
Inc. (MHFI) , introduced premiums known as escalators for the two
Norwegian blends on May 1 to reflect their superior quality, and
in doing so, gave sellers an incentive to offer the crudes on
the platform and reduce the dominance of Forties among the four
grades that comprise Dated Brent. The changes were the latest
that the company has adopted as waning North Sea output
underpinning Dated Brent threatens the validity of the marker,
which is used to price over half the world’s crude.  “The escalators have had an impact on how people view the
benchmark,” Amrita Sen, chief oil market strategist at Energy
Aspects Ltd., a research company in  London , said in an
interview. “Platts have taken steps so that Brent isn’t accused
of being a benchmark with no liquidity. We’ve moved beyond the
point where people are skeptical.”  Traders buy and sell forward contracts that can be settled
with Brent, Forties, Oseberg or Ekofisk crudes, the four streams
that comprise the BFOE market, the industry’s most active
forward market and used to formulate Dated Brent. The cheapest
of the grades, typically Forties, which is also the most
abundant, sets the marker.  Quality Premium  Platts introduced escalators as a means of compensating
sellers for settling contracts with higher-quality Oseberg and
Ekofisk. If a buyer receives one of the two grades through a
forward contract, it’s obliged to pay the seller a premium as
set on a monthly basis using specified percentages of average
historical differentials.  Waning production has prompted Platts to modify its key
benchmark on at least five occasions since it started assessing
Dated Brent in the 1980s. A decline in output from the Brent
field, initially the benchmark’s only underlying crude, led the
company to add Forties and Oseberg to the Dated Brent pricing
mechanism in 2002. Ekofisk was added five years later. Platts’s
crude prices currently reflect the value of cargoes loading in
10 to 25 days, a date range that the company widened on two
occasions to increase liquidity.  ‘Broken’ Benchmark  Loadings of North Sea BFOE crudes were 832,258 barrels a
day from January to July this year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. That compares with 1.06 million barrels in the
same period of 2011.  Brent overtook West Texas Intermediate as the most-traded
crude last year as investors viewed the North Sea grade as more
representative of global conditions. While Brent continued being
shipped around the world, booming U.S. production and a lack of
pipelines created a glut of WTI at Cushing,  Oklahoma , America’s
biggest oil hub, driving its price  below  Brent and prompting
Citigroup Inc.’s  Ed Morse  to describe WTI as a “broken”
benchmark.  The concept of quality premiums already exists in the shape
of a de-escalator, a discount Forties buyers get in compensation
for high levels of sulfur in the grade, which was introduced in
2007 after supply from the 200,000 barrel-a-day Buzzard field
was added.  Increased Transparency  “We have seen, as a direct result, increased transparency
and market participation in Oseberg and Ekofisk since May,”
Jorge Montepeque, the global director of market reporting at
Platts in London, said in an e-mailed response to questions on
July 5. “Several cargoes have traded and bids and offers for
Oseberg and Ekofisk are now commonplace in addition to normal
bids and offers for Forties and Brent.”  The way Platts assesses the physical markets contrasts with
the settlements for exchange-traded futures such as WTI, which
are bought and sold almost around the clock and made publicly
available. Platts uses transactions made in a Market-on-Close
window that ends at 4:30 p.m. London time each weekday.
Reporters also interview market participants to determine the
price of energy products hat trade outside of the window. Only
Platts customers can view it and companies must register in
order to post bids and offers.  Oil Probe  EU investigators raided the offices of Platts, as well as
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  BP Plc (BP/)  and  Statoil ASA (STL)  in May as part of
a probe into potential price manipulation in crude, refined
products and biofuels. Trading houses Vitol Group, Glencore
Xstrata Plc and Gunvor Group Ltd. were asked to provide
information to European regulators, said three people familiar
with the situation, who asked not to be identified because the
matter is private. Platts said it has provided data and is
cooperating with the inquiry.  Participation in the Platts window is voluntary, with the
bulk of crude trades occurring outside it. From May to July this
year, 39 BFOE cargoes traded in the window, 29 of which were
Forties, according to Platts data. That’s less than one-third of
the 126 BFOE lots scheduled in loading programs obtained by
 Bloomberg News  for the same period. Each shipment can change
hands between as little as once and as many as 50 times in the
forward market, five traders involved in the market said.  Troll, Statfjord  Platts’s assessments haven’t become more accurate since the
escalators were introduced, according to seven of 18 market
participants surveyed last month by Bloomberg. A further three
of those polled said accuracy has improved, while two said it’s
too early to evaluate the changes. The remaining six traders
declined to comment.  Platts has said it may further expand the BFOE basket,
possibly to include Denmark’s Dansk Underground Consortium and
 Norway ’s Troll and Statfjord. While such moves would increase
trading volume underpinning Dated Brent, total North Sea oil
output is about 50 percent less than what it was 10 years ago.  “This is quite a dramatic shift in liquidity in few
years,” Torbjoern Kjus, a senior oil analyst at  DnB ASA (DNB)  in
Oslo, said in e-mailed comments “More has to be done on this
issue to secure best possible price discovery.”  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
Platts in providing news and data on energy markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Hurst in London at 
 lhurst3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  