-- Novatek Jumps Most in Five Weeks on LNG Export Plan, Earnings
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a   a n d   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y
-- 2013-08-09T15:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/novatek-jumps-most-in-five-weeks-on-lng-export-plan-earnings.html
OAO Novatek (NVTK) ,  Russia ’s second-biggest
natural-gas producer, rose the most in five weeks in Moscow
trading after earnings beat estimates and the government said it
may ease export restrictions by the end of the year.  Novatek climbed 3 percent, the biggest one-day gain since
July 2, to close at 348.62 rubles.  The company is Russia’s largest gas producer after OAO
Gazprom, which has a monopoly on exports. Deputy Prime Minister
 Arkady Dvorkovich  said today that the government will meet in
September to discuss allowing other companies to ship liquefied
natural gas, and new legislation could be approved by year-end.  “The law has been drafted and should be submitted to the
government in the next few days,” Dvorkovich said. Gas buyers
in China and  Japan  have said they’re ready to buy LNG from other
Russian producers, according to the deputy premier.  Novatek today reported a 20 percent jump in second-quarter
profit as sales volumes increased and prices gained.  Net income rose to 11.6 billion rubles ($353 million) from
9.66 billion rubles a year earlier, exceeding the 11.3 billion-ruble average estimate of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
Revenue advanced 29 percent to 58 billion rubles.  LNG Exports  Novatek is building a $20 billion plant on the Arctic Yamal
Peninsula to produce LNG, or gas chilled to a liquid for
transportation by tanker. President  Vladimir Putin  said in June
that Russia should consider liberalizing LNG shipments to add
sales to  Asia , outside the reach of Gazprom’s pipelines.  Gas sold directly to end-users expanded to 89 percent of
Novatek’s total sales in the second quarter from 62 percent a
year earlier, the Tarko-Sale, Siberia-based company said.
Revenue was buoyed by new contracts with EON SE’s Russian unit,
 OAO Severstal (SVST)  and OAO Mosenergo.  The company’s average gas price increased by 14 percent in
the period, reflecting an increase in the regulated tariff
introduced in July 2012. Gas sales volumes rose 8.8 percent to
14.6 billion cubic meters.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net ;
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  