-- Obama Said to Detail Steps to Assure Public on Spying
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-08-09T17:23:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/obama-said-to-detail-steps-to-assure-public-on-spying.html
President  Barack Obama , responding to
increasing public unease over government surveillance programs,
plans to announce today steps designed to build trust in the
government’s handling of the anti-terrorism programs, an
administration official said.  Obama will outline his plans at a news conference,
scheduled for 3 p.m.  Washington  time at the White House,
according to the official, who asked for anonymity to discuss
the matter before the president speaks.  The steps follow revelations about National Security Agency
programs by former computer security contractor Edward Snowden,
who has been charged by federal officials with illegally leaking
classified documents.  Obama and other White House officials have met this week
with technology and communications company executives, industry
representatives and privacy advocates as part of what the
administration calls a dialogue on privacy and national
security. The president met yesterday with a group that included
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  and AT&T Inc. CEO
 Randall Stephenson  as part of that process, according to another
administration official.  Collecting Records  At issue is the government collection of millions of phone
records from American citizens and monitoring of cross-border
 Internet traffic . Government officials say the surveillance is
authorized by a secret court under the Patriot Act, passed after
the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, and is necessary to defend
against terrorism.  The government last week cited intercepted communications
among terrorist groups in announcing that U.S. diplomatic posts
in some predominantly Muslim countries would be temporarily shut
down because of the threat of attack.  Obama’s announcement is the administration’s latest attempt
to quell public and congressional criticism on intelligence
gathering that snares records of U.S. citizens. Last month, the
Office of the Director of National Intelligence released
previously classified documents about the surveillance and court
orders.  Lawmakers from both parties have raised concerns about the
legal rationale for the data collection. They have zeroed in on
the program that gathers millions of phone records from U.S.
citizens into government computers, authorized by the Foreign
Intelligence Surveillance Court under the Patriot Act. The
court, which operates in secret, has come under scrutiny for
being too willing to approve intelligence-agency requests.  New Rules  Senator  Richard Blumenthal , a Connecticut Democrat, has
proposed legislation to establish the position at the secretive
court in Washington that issues orders and rulings related to
classified national intelligence information.  “What we have learned over the course of American history
is that the Constitution needs a zealous advocate,” Blumenthal,
a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, said yesterday
during remarks at  Harvard Law School . “My legislation would
provide one.”  Blumenthal is one of several lawmakers who have proposed,
or are in the process of drafting, legislation to place
restrictions or new public disclosure requirements on the
classified U.S. intelligence apparatus that has become central
to the federal government’s national security programs.  A House proposal to take away funding for the NSA programs
-- which was vigorously opposed by the Obama administration --
came seven votes short of passing July 24.  Curbing Surveillance  Senator  Dianne Feinstein , a California Democrat and
chairman of the Intelligence Committee, said last month she
would consider including curbs on the phone-data program in the
annual intelligence authorization bill.  Representative Jim Sensenbrenner, a Wisconsin Republican
who sponsored the Patriot Act in 2001, has proposed limiting
phone data collection to targets of federal terrorism probes and
to put restrictions on the surveillance court.  Public concern has been rising that the government’s
electronic spying programs intrude on personal privacy,
according to a Washington Post-ABC News poll released July 23.  The survey found 57 percent support unrestricted government
access to telephone and Internet data to investigate potential
terrorism, the lowest support since the Sept. 11 attacks, and 39
percent oppose it. Three years ago, support of unrestricted
monitoring was 68 percent, according to the poll.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  