-- Obama Says He’s Mulling ‘Range’ of Candidates for Fed Chief
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2013-08-09T20:32:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/obama-says-he-s-considering-range-of-candidates-for-fed-chief.html
President  Barack Obama  said today
he’s looking at a “range of outstanding candidates” for
Federal Reserve chairman including  Lawrence Summers  and  Janet Yellen  and will make a decision “in the fall.”  Choosing a replacement for Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ,
whose term expires on Jan. 31, is “definitely one of the most
important economic decisions that I’ll make in the remainder of
my presidency,” Obama said at a White House news conference.  Obama told House lawmakers last week that he’s considering
Summers, his former top economic adviser, Yellen, the Fed’s
current vice chairman and former Fed Vice Chairman  Donald Kohn 
for the job. Obama today mentioned Summers and Yellen, saying
they were among several candidates he’s considering who would
understand the Fed’s dual mandate to target  price stability  and
full employment.  “A critical part of the job is making sure that we keep
inflation in check, that our monetary policy is sound, that the
dollar is sound,” Obama said. At the same time, “the challenge
is we’ve still got too many people out of work, too many long-term unemployed, too much slack in the economy, and we’re not
growing as fast as we should.”  U.S. Growth  The U.S. economy grew at a 1.7 percent annualized rate in
the second quarter after a 1.1 percent gain the prior three
months, Commerce Department figures show. The economy has grown
at an average 2.2 percent quarterly pace since the recession
ended June 2009.  Employers added 162,000 workers in July, the least in four
months and following a revised 188,000 rise in June that was
less than initially estimated. While the  unemployment rate 
declined to 7.4 percent from 7.6 percent, policy makers have
expressed concern about discouraged workers dropping out of the
labor force and others who have been unable to find work for an
extended period.  The labor market is “far from satisfactory, as the
unemployment rate remains well above its longer-run normal
level, and rates of underemployment and long- term unemployment
are still much too high,” Bernanke told lawmakers July 17.  While Bernanke hasn’t said whether he’d consider staying
for a third term, Obama indicated in a June interview with
 Charlie Rose  that the Fed chief had stayed in the post “longer
than he wanted.”  When he met with members of Congress, Obama defended
Summers, who has been criticized by members of the president’s
own Democratic Party. He said that didn’t indicate Summers had
an inside track.  “I tend to defend folks who I think have done a good
jobs” and don’t deserve attacks, Obama said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  