-- Obama Bets Against Government Shutdown Over Spending
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2013-08-10T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/obama-bets-against-government-shutdown-over-spending.html
President  Barack Obama  predicted
Republicans won’t follow through on threats to shut down the
government next month over disagreements about federal spending
and his health-care law, saying such a move would risk a new
economic crisis as the U.S. is recovering.  “I’m assuming that they will not take that path,” Obama
said yesterday in a White House news conference the day before
he’s to leave for a family vacation in  Martha’s Vineyard ,
 Massachusetts . “I have confidence that common sense in the end
will prevail.”  Obama again defended the health-care law, which phases in
coverage for 30 million uninsured people including those with
preexisting conditions, saying Republicans have made blocking it
an “ideological fixation” and “their holy grail.”  When members of Congress return from their August recess,
they and the president will confront a host of decisions on the
economy, including determining federal spending levels and the
government running up against its $16.7 trillion  debt limit .  Republican lawmakers are threatening a default or
government shutdown as they demand spending cuts while Obama
argues for infrastructure improvements, expanded educational
opportunities and more support for research -- a recurring drama
in negotiations over the nation’s deficit since 2011.  Obama also touched on the need to revise immigration laws,
relations with  Russia , government surveillance programs and the
process of selecting a new Federal Reserve chairman.  Shutdown Prospects  He rejected the idea of shutting “the government at a time
when the recovery is getting some traction, where we’re growing,
although not as fast as we need to, where the  housing market  is
recovering, although not as fast as we would like, that we would
precipitate another crisis here in  Washington .”  The White House wants Congress to turn off automatic budget
cuts, known as sequestration. The president has said he won’t
sign a series of stopgap funding bills until it’s dealt with.
Many Republicans in Congress are demanding reduced spending for
entitlement programs before sequestration is modified or turned
off, an offer opposed by the White House.  The  federal budget   deficit  narrowed from more than 10
percent of the gross domestic product at the end of 2009 to 5.7
percent of GDP for the 12 months ended March 31 -- the smallest
gap in four years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  With tax  collections  rising and spending growth slowing
down, the deficit is on track to drop to 4 percent of the $16
trillion U.S. GDP for the fiscal year ending Sept. 30, according
to a May forecast by the  Congressional Budget Office . It will
shrink to 3.4 percent of GDP next year, the CBO says, close to
the 3.3 percent average over the past 30 years, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Partisan Battles  The improving budget outlook hasn’t eased the partisan
battles over federal finances. Legislation to fund highway,
aviation, rail and other transportation projects for next year
collapsed last week in the House and the Senate, reflecting a
stalemate over the budget.  Congress is now on a five-week break and won’t return until
Sept. 9, just three weeks before government funding runs out. In
November, the U.S. government is expected to reach the debt
limit.  Bond investors have been unfazed by the stalemate in
Washington.  In 2011, after months of lawmakers fighting over raising
the nation’s debt limit, Obama signed the increase into law on
Aug. 2 of that year, the day the Treasury Department warned that
U.S. borrowing authority would expire.  Investors Disregard  Credit markets disregarded the standoff, with yields on  10-year (USGG10YR)  Treasury notes declining to 2.61 percent on Aug. 2 of that
year, from 3.18 percent on July 1, 2011, and continued to fall
to 1.88 percent at year-end. Yields on 10-year Treasuries  fell
one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 2.58 percent
yesterday in  New York , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data.  Lawmakers also will return to consider an overhaul of
immigration policy. Obama said he sees “a strong bipartisan
vote coming out of the Senate” while in the  House of
Representatives , “internal caucus politics” threaten to
prevent votes on an overhaul. “That’s what the American people
don’t want us to be worrying about,” Obama said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  