-- Obama Rejects Speculation Summers Has Fed ‘Inside Track’
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2013-08-10T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/obama-says-summers-one-of-range-of-candidates-to-head-up-fed.html
President  Barack Obama  rejected the
notion that  Lawrence Summers  is the front-runner to replace
Federal Reserve Chairmen  Ben S. Bernanke , explaining that he has
defended his former National Economic Council director as an act
of loyalty.  “The perception that Mr. Summers might have an inside
track simply had to do with a bunch of attacks that I was
hearing on Mr. Summers pre-emptively, which is sort of a
standard Washington exercise that I don’t like,” Obama said at
a White House news conference yesterday. “I tend to defend
folks who I think have done a good job and don’t deserve
attacks.”  The former Treasury secretary is one of a “range of
outstanding candidates” to head lead the central bank,
including Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen , the president said.  While Obama didn’t express a preference between Summers and
Yellen, calling them both “outstanding candidates,” he did
elaborate on the need for the next Fed chairman to combat
inflation. The president warned of the potential dangers of
“artificial bubbles” and reiterated his requirement that the
next chairman work to lower  unemployment .  “My main criteria for the Fed Reserve chairman is somebody
who understands they’ve got a dual mandate,” he said. “A
critical part of the job is making sure that we keep inflation
in check, that our monetary policy is sound, that the dollar is
sound.”  Additional Candidates  Besides Summers, 58, and Yellen, 66, Obama said he had a
“couple” more candidates under consideration. Last week, he
told House lawmakers that he was also considering former Fed
Vice Chairman  Donald Kohn , 70, for the job, bringing to three
the names of publicly known candidates.  It’s hard to make a case that Summers, Yellen or Kohn
“clearly has a stronger reputation than the others” on
inflation, said  Lou Crandall , chief economist at Wrightson ICAP
LLC in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey . “Proponents of each individual
might make subjective arguments on their favorite’s behalf.’  ‘‘Of the three, Yellen is probably seen as the most focused
on  unemployment (USURTOT)  issues,” he said. “The common perception would
probably be that Summers and Kohn have more experience with the
financial bubble issues that the president cited.”  Obama, 52, told House lawmakers last week that Summers was
being unfairly criticized. Yesterday, he compared Summers to his
National Security Adviser  Susan Rice . Obama didn’t nominate her
for Secretary of State after a backlash over statements she made
following the attacks in Benghazi,  Libya , last September.  Rice Comparison  “When somebody’s worked hard for me and worked hard on
behalf of the American people, and I know the quality of those
people, and I see him getting slapped around in the press for no
reason before they’ve even been nominated for anything, then I
want to make sure that somebody’s standing up for them,” Obama
said. “I felt the same way when people were attacking Susan
Rice before she was nominated for anything.”  Obama ultimately picked former Massachusetts Senator  John Kerry  instead of Rice as the nation’s top diplomat and moved her
to a post that doesn’t require Senate confirmation.  For the Fed position, Obama said he’ll make a decision “in
the fall” on a replacement forBernanke, 59, whose term expires
on Jan. 31.  Yellen has been the Fed vice chairman since October 2010.
Summers, who was Treasury secretary from July 1999 to January
2001, returned to government in 2009 to serve as National
Economic Council director during Obama’s first term.  Sticky Wicket  “Obama is on a sticky wicket at this stage,” said
Jonathan Wright, an economics professor at  Johns Hopkins
University  in Baltimore who worked at the Fed’s division of
monetary affairs from 2004 until 2008. “If he appoints Summers,
he upsets many people in his party. If he appoints Yellen, he
seems to have backed down under pressure.”  “So he is surely at least thinking about other
alternatives, and not just Don Kohn,” he said. “One way out
might be to persuade  Ben Bernanke  to stay for another term after
all.”  After warning about the need to preserve a strong dollar,
Obama elaborated on the other aspect of the Fed’s dual mandate.  “If you look at the biggest challenges we have, the
challenge is not inflation,” he said. “The challenge is we’ve
still got too many people out of work, too many long-term
unemployed, too much slack in -- in the economy, and we’re not
growing as fast as we should.”  Missed Targets  The Fed has been missing on both targets of its twin goals.
The personal consumption expenditures index -- the Fed’s
preferred gauge of inflation -- rose 1.3 percent in June from a
year earlier, below the central bank’s 2 percent goal.
Unemployment, at 7.4 percent in July, has been above 7 percent
since November 2008.  Employers added 162,000 workers in July, the least in four
months and following a revised 188,000 rise in June that was
less than initially estimated. While the  unemployment rate 
declined to 7.4 percent from 7.6 percent, policy makers have
expressed concern that discouraged workers were dropping out of
the  labor force  and others have been unable to find work for an
extended period.  The labor market is “far from satisfactory, as the
unemployment rate remains well above its longer-run normal
level, and rates of underemployment and long- term unemployment
are still much too high,”  Bernanke told Congress July 17.  While Bernanke hasn’t said whether he’d be willing to stay
for a third term, Obama indicated in a June interview with
 Charlie Rose  that the Fed chief had stayed in the post “longer
than he wanted.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  