-- Obama Endorsement Builds Momentum for Housing-Finance Overhaul
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2013-08-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/obama-endorsement-builds-momentum-for-housing-finance-overhaul.html
President  Barack Obama  broke almost
five years of silence on post-crisis plans for housing finance
by endorsing an approach that would scale back the government’s
role to covering mortgage losses only during a catastrophe.  By biding his time, Obama allowed a bipartisan consensus to
form around the idea. Republicans and Democrats in the Senate,
housing advocacy groups and industry participants including
bankers and Realtors have embraced that model, a middle ground
in the debate over just how much of the risk of a housing
downturn should be borne by taxpayers.  Obama lent his support to a Senate bill with a reduced
government role in backing mortgages during a speech this week
in Phoenix. The question now is whether the coalition will be
strong enough to push forward with an overhaul this year or
next, or whether it will end up mired in partisan stalemate.  “I think there is greater momentum towards reform than
there has been in quite a while,” Michael Barr, a former
Treasury Department official who led the Obama administration’s
efforts to rewrite financial rules, said in a interview. At the
same time, he said, “It’s likely to take a while to continue to
build consensus.”  How fast Congress acts likely depends on the Republican-controlled House of Representatives, which must vote to approve
any legislation. Republicans on the Financial Services Committee
are moving forward with their own plan, which would nearly
eliminate the government role in mortgages.  The House measure is unlikely to become law because it
doesn’t have any Democratic support, is not backed by some
Republicans, and housing industry representatives are lobbying
heavily against it. Still, House Republicans could decide to
hold out for their position, blocking the Senate effort.  Senate ‘Ready’  “This is not about the Senate,” said Julia Gordon,
director for housing finance and policy at the Center for
American Progress, an advocacy group with ties to the Democratic
Party. “The Senate is ready to move on this.”  Lawmakers from both ends of the political spectrum say the
current situation is untenable: Two out of three new home loans
are now backed by Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac (FMCC) , the two
government-sponsored enterprises, or GSEs, which puts taxpayers
on the hook for additional losses.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were seized by regulators in
2008 as defaults on risky loans drove them toward insolvency,
and taxpayers have spent $187.5 billion to keep them afloat.
Republicans and Democrats alike are calling for the companies to
be liquidated and replaced with a system based more on private
capital.  Republican Bob Corker of  Tennessee  and Democrat Mark Warner
of  Virginia , the authors of a housing bill that has support from
both parties, say they think an overhaul could get through both
the Senate and House this year.  Time ‘Right’  “I know there’s a real desire to get GSE reform done this
fall and I think people understand that the time is right,”
Corker said in an interview.  Others are less optimistic.  “I think you have a 40 percent chance you can get to the
finish line by the midterm elections, 60 percent chance that you
can get done while Obama is president,” said Jaret Seiberg, a
senior policy analyst at Guggenheim Securities LLC’s Washington
Research Group. “That still means you have a really good chance
that nothing happens. The politics of this are insanely
tricky.”  The Corker-Warner bill, sponsored by five Democrats and
five Republicans, would replace  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and Freddie Mac with
a federal reinsurer that would step in only after private
capital had taken least 10 percent of the first losses on
mortgage securities. The government would step in with more aid
during a financial catastrophe. The measure was written with
technical input from the Obama administration.  Senate Bills  Banking Committee chairman Tim Johnson, a South Dakota
Democrat and Mike Crapo of  Idaho , the panel’s senior Republican,
are spending August working on a bill of their own, which is
likely to incorporate an approach similar to that of the Corker-Warner legislation. As senior members of the committee, Johnson
and Crapo’s housing bill will take precedence over the Corker-Warner measure.  “In the Senate, both parties agree that the status quo is
unsustainable, and bipartisan consensus is starting to emerge,”
Johnson said in an e-mailed statement.  The bill is “our next high priority to move and I hope
we’ll be moving it right after the break in August,” Crapo said
in an interview.  Warner and Corker say they think the Senate and the House
will be able to work out their differences.  “The last thing that many in the majority in the House
want is maintenance of the status quo,” Warner said in an
interview. “If we miss this window you could be stuck with
Fannie and Freddie in conservatorship as far as the eye can
see.”  The author of the House bill, Financial Services Committee
Chairman Jeb Hensarling of  Texas , said he’d be open to
compromise in a conference committee if both chambers pass their
housing bills.  ‘Not Naive’  “I’m not naive about the fact that we have a Democrat in
White House and I’m not naive about the fact that the Senate is
controlled by Democrats,” Hensarling said in an interview. “If
something is going to get passed into law, which I would like it
to be at some point in the process, by definition it will have
to be a bipartisan product.”  Hensarling’s bill would liquidate Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac and limit government support for mortgages to the Federal
Housing Administration, which insures home loans for buyers who
don’t have large down payments.  The measure passed out of the Financial Services Committee
in July with two Republicans voting against it and without
Democratic support. Hensarling said he is now focused on
garnering enough support from Republicans outside of the
committee to try to bring it to a full vote of the House. He
declined to speculate on when that could happen.  Window Closing  As the housing market turns around, the window could be
closing for lawmakers to act before the current system becomes
entrenched.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which have each been profitable
for more than a year, this week announced they’d send a combined
$14.6 billion to Treasury, bringing their total payments to
taxpayers to $146 billion since 2009. The government takes all
of their quarterly profits, which count as a dividend and not as
a repayment of the bailout money.  Shareholders in the two companies, long thought to have
been wiped out during the financial crisis, are starting to
object to that arrangement now that it’s conceivable the
government could end up with a net profit on the bailout.  Investors including hedge fund Perry Capital LLC and mutual
fund Fairholme Funds Inc. have sued the U.S. in the hopes that
shareholders could recoup some profits. They’ve also been
lobbying Congress to allow Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to become
private companies again instead of liquidating them.  Some lawmakers say that makes them more determined to act.  “Taking the path of least resistance and allowing the GSEs
to again entrench themselves deeper and deeper into our system
of housing finance would be irresponsible and foolish,” Corker
said in a statement. “It’s time to seize on the growing
momentum to move beyond the broken Fannie and Freddie model.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  