-- Obama Assures Public That Privacy Protected in Data Scans
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2013-08-10T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/obama-urges-patriot-act-changes-to-assure-on-surveillance.html
President  Barack Obama  said his
administration is taking steps to assure  privacy rights  are
protected while government surveillance programs scour telephone
records and Internet communications for links that might foil a
terrorist attack.  “It’s not enough for me as president, to have confidence
in these programs,” Obama said at a White House news conference
yesterday. “The American people need to have confidence in them
as well.”  Obama and the U.S. intelligence agencies are seeking to
quell growing public and congressional criticism of the programs
that snare data on communications by U.S. citizens.  “We have to strike the right balance between protecting
our security and preserving our freedoms,” he said.  The president said he will ask Congress change the section
of the Patriot Act authorizing the collection of telephone
records, to increase oversight and transparency. He said he’ll
also propose appointment of a legal advocate to serve as an
adversary when spy agencies make requests in the secret sessions
of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court, which vets
requests for electronic eavesdropping.  As part of Obama’s effort to reassure the public, the
 Justice Department  and the NSA released documents yesterday
detailing the legal rationale for surveillance and describing
controls and accountability in the programs.  Ordinary People  “America is not interested in spying on ordinary people,”
Obama, 52, said.  The Justice Department released a 23-page white paper as
Obama spoke that provided the broad legal analysis for the U.S.
program that authorizes the NSA to collect the phone records of
millions of American citizens. The NSA at the same time
distributed a seven-page  document  describing the agency’s
mission and authority.  The Justice Department paper lays out the program and its
safeguards, including oversight by Congress and the secretive
court, as well as the argument that it isn’t unconstitutional.
While the paper doesn’t include the classified legal order
authorizing the program, it cites legislative history,
lawmakers’ statements and dozens of court rulings.  The president’s pledges follow Americans’ expressions of
unease with the surveillance activities. In a survey released
July 26 by the Pew Research Center, 56 percent of Americans said
the courts don’t set adequate limits on the information
collected, and 70 percent of Americans said they believe the
government is using the data for purposes beyond anti-terrorism.  Divided Public  Even with those objections, 50 percent of those surveyed
said they approve of the programs while 44 percent disapproved.  The concerns of the public “did make it necessary for the
administration to have some kind of response,” said Scott Keeter, Pew’s director of survey research.  Whether Obama’s response goes far enough may depend on how
lawmakers and other leaders react, he said. “It’s from that the
public will be able to say, ’That sounds satisfactory to me,’ or
’I don’t think so.’”  The debate was ignited after revelations about two NSA
programs by former computer security contractor Edward Snowden,
who has been charged by federal officials with illegally leaking
classified documents. Snowden, 30, is in  Russia , which has
granted the former  Booz Allen Hamilton Holding Corp. (BAH)  employee
temporary asylum.  “The recognition by the administration that these programs
have problems that need to be reformed is a positive step,”
said Amie Stepanovich, director of the Domestic Surveillance
Project at the Electronic Privacy Information Center, a
nonprofit research group in  Washington .  Not Encouraged  “However, it’s necessary that any reform that takes place
is meaningful and includes provisions for ongoing transparency
and accountability in regard to the NSA’s exercise of its
surveillance authorities.”  Stepanovich said she’s not encouraged by the pace of his
steps to date.  As part of the process, Obama met Aug. 8 with a group that
included  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  and AT&T
Inc. CEO  Randall Stephenson . His top aides met earlier in the
week with industry representatives and privacy advocates.  The NSA has been collecting millions of phone records from
American citizens and monitoring cross-border  Internet traffic .
Government officials say the surveillance is authorized by a
secret court under the Patriot Act, passed after the Sept. 11
attacks, and is necessary to defend against future terrorist
strikes.  Embassies Closed  The government last week cited intercepted communications
among terrorist groups in announcing that almost two-dozen U.S.
diplomatic posts in some predominantly Muslim countries would be
temporarily shut down because of the threat of attack. The State
Department said yesterday 18 embassies and consulates will
reopen on Aug. 11.  Lawmakers from both parties have raised concerns about the
legal rationale for the data collection. They have zeroed in on
the program that gathers millions of phone records from U.S.
citizens into government computers, authorized by the Foreign
Intelligence Surveillance Court under the Patriot Act. The
court, which operates in secret, has come under scrutiny for
being too willing to approve intelligence-agency requests.  Senator  Richard Blumenthal , a Connecticut Democrat, has
proposed legislation to establish the position of an advocate at
the secretive court in Washington that issues orders and rulings
related to classified national intelligence information.  ‘Zealous Advocate’  “What we have learned over the course of American history
is that the Constitution needs a zealous advocate,” Blumenthal,
a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, said Aug. 8 during
remarks at  Harvard Law School .  Blumenthal is one of several lawmakers who have proposed,
or are in the process of drafting, legislation to place
restrictions or new public disclosure requirements on the
classified U.S. intelligence apparatus that has become central
to the federal government’s national-security programs.  Senator  Dianne Feinstein , a California Democrat who heads
the Senate Intelligence Committee, said her panel will undertake
a “major review” of data-collection programs.  A House proposal to take away funding for the NSA programs
-- which was vigorously opposed by the Obama administration --
came seven votes short of passing July 24.  The surveillance efforts also have defenders in Congress.  Representative  Peter King , the  New York  Republican who’s a
member of the House Intelligence Committee, called Obama’s
willingness to change the surveillance program “a monumental
failure in presidential wartime leadership.”  In a statement, King said “these programs are legal,
transparent and contain the appropriate checks and balances
among the executive, legislative and judicial branches of our
government.”  “Transparency is important, but we expect the White House
to insist that no reform will compromise the operational
integrity of the program,”  Brendan Buck , a spokesman for House
Speaker  John Boehner  said in a statement. “That must be the
president’s red line, and he must enforce it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  