-- Obama Likely to Meet Putin at G-20 Summit, Simes Says
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-08-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/obama-likely-to-meet-putin-at-g-20-summit-simes-says.html
President  Barack Obama  is “quite
likely” to meet one-on-one with Russian President  Vladimir Putin  next month even though the U.S. canceled plans for a
Moscow summit meeting, Russia analyst Dimitri Simes said.  With both presidents scheduled to attend two days of talks
in  St. Petersburg  with other leaders of the Group of 20 economic
powers, “it would be kind of interesting if they would not talk
to each other,”  Simes said on Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital with  Al Hunt ” airing this weekend.  “It is not pre-arranged, but it seems quite likely” that
the two will talk on the sidelines of the G-20 gathering, said
Simes, president and chief executive officer of the Center for
the National Interest, who recently returned from a visit to
Russia.  The foreign and defense ministers of the two countries held
talks yesterday in  Washington . “It’s no secret that we’ve
experienced some challenging moments,” U.S. Secretary of State
 John Kerry  said. Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  said the
U.S. and Russia “need to work as grown-ups.”  Simes, a native of Russia who served as an informal adviser
to President  Richard Nixon , said Obama and Putin “genuinely
have rather poor chemistry.” The Center for the National
Interest, based in Washington, was established by Nixon.  Putin “almost has a contempt for Obama,” Simes said. “He
considers him pretentious but weak. It’s a very bad situation
for a superpower to be in.”  Putin’s ‘Slouch’  Obama said yesterday at a White House news conference that
when he meets with Putin, “the press likes to focus on body
language, and he’s got that kind of slouch, looking like the
bored kid in the back of the classroom.”  Obama said he doesn’t have “a bad personal relationship
with Putin. When we have conversations, they’re candid. They’re
blunt. Oftentimes, they’re constructive.”  Obama’s attempt at a “reset” in relations was stymied
partly by Russia’s decision to grant asylum to former National
Security Agency contractor Edward Snowden, who faces U.S.
espionage charges after disclosing top-secret surveillance
programs.  Putin had little choice politically but to give Snowden
shelter because Russia has no extradition treaty with the U.S.
and the Americans blocked Snowden from traveling anywhere else,
Simes said.  “For Putin to return Snowden, that would not be understood
by anybody in Russia,” he said.  Olympic Games  The souring of relations has led some U.S. lawmakers to
urge that America pull out of the 2014 winter  Olympic games  in
Russia, a proposal Simes called “a bad idea” that should be
discarded.  “While Putin would be snubbed, I think that the  United
States  as a result may be isolated,” Simes said, because most
other major nations would still participate in the games.  “It’s a question of risking a demonstration that the
United States is no longer such a hegemonic power that when we
say we don’t go, the whole world follows,” he said.  Obama said yesterday that he had no intention of boycotting
the Olympics.  “We’ve got a bunch of Americans out there who are training
hard, who are doing everything they can to succeed,” he said.  Cancellation’s Advantages  While the cancellation of the Moscow summit may further
strain relations, the decision to scrap it served the political
interests of both leaders, Simes said.  Obama knew that going to Moscow would subject him to “very
serious domestic criticism” after the Snowden incident, and
Putin didn’t want Obama visiting with Russian dissidents in
Moscow at a session that would become an “anti-climax” to the
G-20 gathering, Simes said.  There also was little hope of making progress on major
sticking points in the relationship such as human rights,
missile defense and the civil war in  Syria , he said.  Simes said the U.S. could improve relations with  Russia  by
becoming “more realistic” and “tougher at the same time.”  He said the U.S. “should stop lecturing the Russians” on
human rights, while making sure that if Russia crosses any “red
line” the U.S. sets “there should be a higher price to pay.”  China Relations  “We can ignore Russia, but only if we have a very good
relationship with  China ,” Simes said.  Citing China’s praise of Russia for its handling of the
Snowden case, Simes said any attempt by the U.S. “to pressure
China and Russia” simultaneously means “we’re running the risk
that China and Russia would become closer together at the
American expense.”  While Russia is no longer a superpower, Simes said, it is
still a nuclear power with a permanent seat on the  United
Nations Security Council , making the country a vital player for
resolving conflicts such as  Iran’s nuclear program .  For all the recent tensions in the U.S.-Russia
relationship, there is little risk of a return to the days of
the  Cold War , he said.  “There is a lot of polemics on both sides,” Simes said.
“But nobody is talking about shooting at each other.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  