-- Obama Said to Call for Patriot Act Changes to Assure Public
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2013-08-09T19:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/obama-said-to-call-for-patriot-act-changes-to-assure-public.html
President  Barack Obama , responding to
increasing public unease over U.S. surveillance programs, plans
to announce today he’ll seek changes to the Patriot Act and
appoint an independent panel to find ways to ensure  privacy
rights  are protected, administration officials said.  Obama will begin his White House news conference today by
outlining steps his administration is taking after revelations
that the National Security Agency is collecting data about
telephone calls in the U.S. and monitoring cross-border  Internet
traffic .  The president will ask Congress to change a section of the
Patriot Act authorizing the surveillance, to increase oversight
and transparency of government data collection programs,
according to the officials who asked for anonymity to discuss
the steps before the announcement. Obama also will propose
providing a civil liberties advocate to participate in cases
before the secretive Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court.  As part of Obama’s effort to reassure the public, the
 Justice Department  and the NSA will release documents detailing
the legal rationale for surveillance and describing controls and
accountability in the programs, the officials said.  The steps follow revelations about two NSA programs by
former computer security contractor Edward Snowden, who has been
charged by federal officials with illegally leaking classified
documents. Snowden is in  Russia , which has granted him temporary
asylum.  Government officials say the data collection is authorized
by the secret court under the Patriot Act, passed after the
Sept. 11 attacks, and is necessary to defend against future
terrorist strikes.  The government last week announced that almost two dozen
U.S. diplomatic posts in predominantly Muslim countries would be
temporarily shut down because of the threat of an attack by al-Qaeda or affiliated groups.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  