-- Oil Rises First Time in 6 Days on China Industrial Output
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2013-08-09T19:28:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/oil-rises-first-time-in-6-days-on-china-industrial-output.html
West Texas Intermediate crude climbed
for the first time in six days as industrial production
increased in  China , the second-biggest oil-consuming country.  Futures advanced 2.5 percent after data from China’s
National Bureau of Statistics showed factory output increased
9.7 percent in July, 0.8 percentage point more than forecast in
a Bloomberg survey. There have been recent “signs of strength”
in oil markets with a 3.1 million-barrels-a-day surge in world
refinery operating rates in June, the  International Energy
Agency  said in a report today.  “The industrial numbers out of China were impressive,”
said  John Kilduff , a partner at Again Capital LLC, a New York
hedge fund that focuses on energy. “This comes on top of a
week’s worth of positive Chinese data.”  WTI crude for September delivery advanced $2.57 to settle
at $105.97 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The
volume of all futures traded was 7.6 percent above the 100-day
average. Prices dropped 0.9 percent this week.  Brent oil for September settlement rose $1.54, or 1.4
percent, to end the session at $108.22 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange. Volume was 16 percent below
the 100-day average. The European benchmark traded at a $2.25
premium to WTI, down from $3.28 yesterday.  Chinese Data  The acceleration in Chinese factory output follows a series
of positive figures. Retail sales climbed 13.2 percent in July,
the National Bureau of Statistics in Beijing said today. Total
exports of goods from China rose 5.1 percent last month, figures
from the General Administration of Customs showed yesterday. The
Non-Manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index showed the first
gain since March, according to government data on Aug. 3.  China accounted for about 12 percent of global crude demand
in 2012, ranking it second after the U.S., according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s
Statistical Review of World Energy.  “Better-than-expected Chinese industrial data was always
going to give a boost to risky assets such as oil,” said
 Michael Hewson , a market analyst at CMC Markets Plc in  London ,
who forecasts  Brent crude  to drop to $103 a barrel by the end of
the year and WTI to fall as low as $95.  Global refining rates probably increased in July, the
Paris-based IEA, an adviser to developed nations, said today in
its monthly market report.  ‘Unprecedented’ Surge  The surge in refinery rates in June was “unprecedented,”
leading to “overhang” of fuel inventory,  Antoine Halff , head
of IEA’s oil markets and industry division, said from Paris
today in an interview with Bloomberg television.  The IEA trimmed its 2014 global oil demand-growth estimate
by 100,000 barrels from last month. Worldwide consumption will
increase by 1.1 million barrels a day to 92 million next year.
The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries maintained its
demand-growth forecast for next year at about 90.8 million
barrels in its monthly report today.  “The IEA and OPEC reports can be taken as either bullish
or bearish depending on what numbers you focus on, but on
balance they seem more supportive to me,” Kilduff said.  U.K. exports rose to a record in the second quarter, adding
to signs of a broadening recovery, data from the  Office for
National Statistics  in London showed today. German exports in
June gained, the Federal Statistics Office said yesterday.  Positive Numbers  “The U.K. numbers are positive and add to the evidence
that Europe has turned a corner,” said Jason Schenker,
president of Prestige Economics LLC, an Austin, Texas-based
energy consultant. “The most recent data from Europe and China
is improving the global growth outlook and that’s positive for
crude prices.”  Egypt ’s interim President Adly Mansour signaled yesterday
that a crackdown may be imminent on two Cairo sit-ins staged by
supporters of ousted President Mohamed Mursi. The crisis was
triggered by the military’s July 3 removal of Mursi.  Crude dropped in the previous five sessions, the longest
streak of declines since December. Prices fell amid concern the
 Federal Reserve  will curb $85 billion a month in bond purchases
that have stimulated growth. WTI will probably retreat next
week, according to a Bloomberg survey of analysts and traders.  Technical Factors  WTI may resume its decline after dropping below key
technical support levels yesterday, said Bob Yawger, director of
the futures division at Mizuho Securities USA Inc. in New York.  The contract broke below $102.96, the 38.2 percent
Fibonacci retracement level on a chart from a June 24 low of
$92.67 to the high on July 19. The 50 percent retracement level
is $101 and 50-day moving average is $101.02.  “I wouldn’t be surprised if the market soon moved lower
because of technical factors,” Yawger said. “I’m looking at
$101, where there is major support because both the 50 percent
retracement and 50-day moving average are there. We may be
seeing some strength today because we fell so far so fast.”  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
October was 21.6 percent, up from 21.2 percent yesterday, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 598,728
contracts as of 3:27 p.m. It totaled 694,391 contracts
yesterday, 6.1 percent above the three-month average. Open
interest was a record 1.9 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in  New York  at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  