-- London Luxury-Home Prices Fall in June On Cash-Deal Drop
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2013-08-09T13:54:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/london-luxury-home-prices-fall-in-june.html
Home prices in seven of London’s
eight most-expensive neighborhoods fell in June as the number of
properties bought with cash dropped, Acadametrics Ltd. said.  Homes in the City of London financial district had the
biggest decrease, falling 2.5 percent, the real estate
researcher and  LSL Property Services Plc (LSL)  said in a report today.
That was followed by the City of Westminster, which includes the
affluent Mayfair area, where prices fell 2.4 percent from a
month earlier.  “There would appear to be a slackening in the pace of
change in the higher-priced areas of London,” Acadametrics
Chairman Peter Williams said in the report. “A fall of prices
in central London could bring about a decline in the market’s
expectations of the future movement of prices for the remainder
of the country.”  Foreign investors and a weakened pound have fueled demand
for luxury homes in London. Prices in the City and in
Westminster rose 68.4 percent and 18.1 percent, respectively, in
the 12 months through June, according to the report. Prices in
all of London’s 33 boroughs rose 7.1 percent for the year.
Prices in central London “have been increasing to what can only
be described as ‘eye watering’ levels,” Williams said.  Wealthiest District  The city’s most-expensive borough,  Kensington & Chelsea ,
was the only one of the eight districts where  home prices  rose
in June, gaining 2.7 percent to an average of 1.53 million
pounds ($2.4 million).  “The prime areas of London have been booming ahead, but
more recently they’ve come off the boil a little bit, probably
because the price rises in the past have been so great,” said
Matthew Pointon, a property economist at research firm Capital
Economics Ltd. “The Kensingtons and Westminsters are going to
underperform a little bit compared with the rest of London due
to the fact that they’re so highly valued.”  The average value of homes in Greater London reached a
record of 451,422 pounds last month, according to the report.
That drove U.K. house prices to a new record in July as
residential real estate transactions reached the highest in four
years amid improving confidence, London-based Acadametrics said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in  London  at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  