-- Mongolia Studying IPO of Stake in $6.6 Billion Rio Mine
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K o h n
-- 2013-08-09T11:08:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/mongolia-studying-ipo-of-stake-in-6-6-billion-rio-mine.html
Mongolia is studying converting its
shares in the Oyu Tolgoi mine into a public company, giving
citizens a stake in one of the world’s largest copper deposits.  A proposed new company would hold the state’s 34 percent
interest, said Chuluuntseren Otgochuluu, director-general of
Strategic Policy and Planning at the Mines Ministry. Ten percent
of the company would be made available to the Mongolian public
and 10 to 20 percent more may be sold on the domestic market.  The potential initial public offering may aid a planned
expansion of the mine, which has been held up by disagreements
over costs and revenues. By giving a stake to Mongolian citizens
who have complained that the project only benefits foreign
investors, the government will find it easier to negotiate with
partner Rio Tinto Group, according to brokerage BDSec.  “Citizens would be able to think like shareholders,” Nick Cousyn, chief operating officer of BDSec, said today. “It would
change the adversarial opinion of the OT project to one that is
focused on the success of the project. It would align the
interests of average Mongolians with the interests of all the
shareholders.”  Rio, which controls the rest of Oyu Tolgoi through its
majority stake in  Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd. (TRQ) , started
shipments from the mine last month following delays as Mongolia
sought to ensure revenue from the $6.6 billion project passed
through domestic banks. The country earlier pushed for a bigger
stake and new royalty rates, which the company rebuffed.  Project Delays  Rio’s planned extension of Oyu Tolgoi would include an
underground mine. The company said July 29 it was delaying work
on the expansion pending financing approval.  “We want to see the project move forward,” Chief
Executive Officer Sam Walsh said yesterday in  London . “We
continue to discuss a range of matters with the government of
Mongolia, but progress has been made on several fronts.”  A spokesman for London-based Rio declined to comment today.  Mongolia is also considering an IPO of its 51 percent stake
in the Erdenet copper mine, Otgochuluu said in an interview in
Ulaanbaatar. The sales of both project stakes would echo a
similar government plan for state-owned coal company Erdenes
Tavan Tolgoi LLC, in which more than 1,000 shares will be issued
free of charge to every Mongolian citizen.  “Something like that can also happen at Erdenet and
Erdenes Oyu Tolgoi,” Otgochuluu said. By setting up a public
company, the government would be able to issue bonds and shares
and accrue funds, he said.  The proposed new company may be called Mongol Copper. An
international IPO may follow a domestic offering, according to
the ministry official, who said the location and size of such a
sale were yet to be determined. The government’s initial goal is
to put state assets in the hands of the public, he said.  “If we gradually change from state ownership to public
ownership we can improve the efficiency and governance,”
Otgochuluu said. “State-owned enterprises can be controlled by
government officials for their benefit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Kohn in Ulaanbaatar at 
 mkohn5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  