-- Oregon Exchange Delay Adds to Scale-Down of Health Law
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-08-12T14:59:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/oregon-exchange-delay-adds-to-scale-down-of-health-law.html
(Corrects to delete Schuyler Connecticut example in 13th
paragraph in story published Aug. 9.)  Oregon, a Democratic-led state that
has embraced President  Barack Obama ’s Affordable Care Act, won’t
meet all the requirements for its health-insurance exchange when
the online marketplace opens Oct. 1.  For at least two weeks, people using Cover Oregon won’t be
able to complete their purchase without help from a certified
insurance broker or community group, said Lisa Morawski, an
exchange spokeswoman. Consumers in all 50 states were supposed
to be able to freely shop for health plans on their own.  “We thought that this was an opportunity for us to open
our doors on Oct. 1 with all the functionality, but not overload
the system,” Morawski said today by telephone.  Oregon’s step-back suggests that states don’t have enough
time to comply with next year’s core implementation of the 2010
health law as Obama envisioned. Even the federal data services
hub that is supposed to connect the exchanges may not get final
security certification until Sept. 30, the inspector general for
the Health and Human Services Department said April 5.  “With all of the delays -- the Supreme Court delay, the
election -- states and HHS for that matter simply don’t have
enough time to put this together as it should be,” said Dan Schuyler, director of exchange technology at the consulting firm
Leavitt Partners in  Salt Lake City .  Federal Plan  Oregon is one of 14 states building their own exchanges.
The federal government is doing most or all of the work in the
remaining 36 states. The U.S. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
Services, which is supervising the building of state exchanges,
is aware of Oregon’s plan and isn’t concerned,  Brian Cook , an
agency spokesman, said in an e-mail.  “There will be a marketplace open in every state on Oct.
1, where families can comparison shop for quality, affordable
health coverage,” Cook said. Federally run exchanges will be
fully open to consumers on time, he added.  Delays in some provisions of the Affordable Care Act are
becoming more commonplace as key deadlines in October and
January approach. On July 2, the White House said large
employers would get a one-year reprieve until 2015 on a
requirement that companies offer health coverage to workers.  “There is no doubt that in implementing the Affordable
Care Act, a program with this significance, there are going to
be some glitches,” Obama told reporters at a White House news
conference today. “There are going to be things where we say,
‘You know what? We should have thought of that earlier’ or ‘This
would work a little bit better’ or ‘this needs an adjustment.”  “That was true of  Social Security . That was true of
Medicare. That was true of the Children’s Health Insurance
Program. That was true of the prescription drug program Part
D,” he said.  De-Scoped Exchanges  The success of the health-care system overhaul is largely
dependent on how many people are willing to buy subsidized
health plans through government exchanges, particularly young
and healthy consumers. The law’s creation of state-by-state
marketplaces had targeted about 25 million of the more than 50
million uninsured Americans for coverage.  States building their own exchanges have steadily “de-scoped” their marketplaces, Schuyler said, “meaning scaling
back on specific functionality.”  Examples include  Nevada , where the exchange won’t have a
chat function initially available on its website when it opens,
Schuyler said.  Oregon  consumers using the state’s exchange will be able to
complete enrollment in health plans without help by the end of
October, Morawski said.  Cook wasn’t immediately able to say whether any other state
is taking Oregon’s approach and initially limiting full use of
an exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  