-- Morgan Lewis, Sidley, Ashurst, Thompson Hine: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-08-09T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/morgan-lewis-sidley-ashurst-thompson-hine-business-of-law.html
Bank regulatory lawyer Charles Horn
joined Morgan Lewis & Bockius LLP as a partner in  Washington . He
was previously at Morrison & Foerster LLP.  Horn counsels domestic and global banks and other financial
services firms on federal and state financial regulation matters
as well as corporate, institutional and retail business
activities. He provides counsel on transactional matters
including mergers and acquisitions, strategic alliances and
business integrations, the firm said. He also advises banks on
asset management, fiduciary and asset administration.  “Charles’s intimate familiarity with the bank regulatory
framework is invaluable to financial institutions as they seek
to better understand and navigate the ever-changing supervision
and enforcement measures and policies of traditional regulators
including the Federal Reserve, the OCC and the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation,” Steven Stone, leader of Morgan Lewis’s
investment management practice said in a statement.  “He can also provide critical counsel to financial
services companies encountering scrutiny from the new financial
industry regulator, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau,
which has launched dozens of investigations and issued more than
100 subpoenas over the last 18 months,” he added.  Morgan Lewis has more than 100 attorneys who work with
financial services clients in the U.S. and abroad. The firm has
more than 1,600 lawyers and professionals in 25 offices in the
U.S., Europe, Asia and the Middle East.  SEC’s Corporation Finance Chief Counsel Joins Sidley Austin  Sidley Austin LLP announced that Thomas J. Kim, the chief
counsel and associate director of the Securities and Exchange
Commission’s Division of Corporation Finance since 2007, is
joining the firm as a partner in Washington. He will be a member
of the securities and derivatives enforcement and regulatory,
securities and corporate governance and executive compensation
practice teams.  At the SEC, Kim managed a staff of more than a dozen senior
lawyers, providing legal advice on the federal securities laws
administered by the division, the firm said.  “It has been challenging and rewarding to work on cutting
edge issues with the commission and the commission’s talented
staff,” Kim said in a statement. “Sidley provides an
exceptional and global platform for building a practice and
providing high-quality legal advice to clients.”  Sidley has approximately 1,700 lawyers in 19 offices in the
Americas, Europe and Asia.  Ashurst Strengthens Asian M&A Practice With Partner Hire  Ashurst LLP appointed John K.J. Kim as a partner in the
Hong Kong office. He was previously with Korean law firm Yulchon
LLC, where he was head of the Outbound Practice Group, the firm
said.  Kim specializes in advising Korean clients in outbound M&A
and other cross-border corporate transactions.  “We view  Korea  as a key market, and we will continue to
significantly invest in our Korean outbound practice,” Asia
managing partner Matthew Bubb said in a statement.  Ashurst has lawyers at offices in North America, Europe,
Asia, the Middle East and  Australia .  Corporate Partner Michael Coleman Joins Thompson Hine  Thompson Hine LLP announced that Michael V. Coleman, along
with another lawyer, joined the firm as a partner in the
corporate transactions and securities practice group in Atlanta.
He was previously at Epstein Becker & Green PC.  “Michael’s experience speaks for itself - he is well-known
throughout the city of Atlanta and nationally. His corporate
practice complements our existing practice, and his considerable
experience and skills will benefit our clients significantly,”
Russell J. Rogers, office partner-in-charge said in a statement.  Coleman’s practice focuses on general corporate issues,
mergers and acquisitions, corporate finance, corporate internal
investigations, public/private transactions and business
litigation, the firm said. In addition to serving as outside
general counsel for a number of Atlanta-based companies, he has
represented Turner Broadcasting and the Atlanta Hawks in
connection with the development and financing of Phillips Arena,
the city of Atlanta in connection with the development and
financing of Atlantic Station and Central Atlanta Progress in
connection with the creation of the Atlanta Downtown Improvement
District, according to the firm.  Thompson Hine has lawyers at seven U.S. offices.  Lander & Rogers Hires Commercial Disputes Partner Tean Kerr.  Tean Kerr joined the Lander & Rogers Sydney office in the
insolvency and commercial dispute resolution practice. He was
previously at Swaab Attorneys.  Kerr has experience in commercial litigation and
insolvency. He advises on insolvency and corporate recovery and
restructuring. He also has experience acting and advising in
relation to director and officer liability and regulatory
matters as well as director and shareholder disputes, the firm
said in a statement.  Lander & Rogers is an Australian law firm with offices in
Melbourne and Sydney.  Video  Wells Fargo: Anemic Growth in BigLaw in 2013  Jeff Grossman, Senior Director at Wells Fargo Private Bank,
talks with Bloomberg Law’s Lee Pacchia about his firm’s new
report on the state of BigLaw. The survey of 120 law firms saw
revenue growth of 1.5% for the first half of 2013 compared to
the same period last year. One positive finding for law firms is
that rates have increased.  For more,  click here.   News  U.K. Prosecutors Accidentally Lost Evidence From BAE Probe  The U.K. Serious Fraud Office said it accidentally lost
evidence from an investigation into  BAE Systems Plc (BA/) , including
32,000 pages of documents and 81 audio tapes.  The information was from a six-year bribery probe into the
defense company that ended with a 500,000-pound ($776,000) fine
for accounting irregularities in 2010. The SFO, which has to
return data after finishing investigations, sent the material to
the wrong source, which it didn’t identify, the agency said in
an e-mailed statement yesterday.  “This latest debacle will do little to restore public
confidence in the SFO,”  Andrew Smith , a criminal defense lawyer
in  London , said in an e-mail. “It underlines the fact that the
SFO needs radical internal reform in order to become a world-class prosecuting agency.”  BAE Systems pleaded guilty in 2010 to not keeping proper
payment records from deals. The defense company had been under
investigation over alleged bribes paid in six countries,
including Tanzania and the Czech Republic. The lost data
accounted for 3 percent of the total information used in the SFO
probe, the agency said. It has recovered 98 percent of the lost
material and said none of the information related to national
security.  The SFO said it conducted an internal probe into the data
loss and has started an independent review of its systems led by
Alan Woods, a former government official. The evidence was
accidentally sent between May and October last year, the agency
said.  Firm News  Baker & McKenzie Elects Managing Partner in Warsaw Office  Marek Rosiński has been elected managing partner of Baker &
McKenzie’s Warsaw office for a two-year term. He takes over from
Marcin Gmaj, who held the position for two terms.  Rosiński, who heads the office’s intellectual property and
technology practice, has been a partner in the Warsaw office
since 2003. He was managing partner of the office between 2007
and 2009.  Baker & McKenzie’s Warsaw office opened in 1992. The office
currently has more than 90 lawyers and tax advisers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  New York  at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  