-- Most Swiss Stocks Advance on China Industrial Output Data
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-08-09T08:51:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/most-swiss-stocks-advance-on-china-industrial-output-data.html
Most  Swiss stocks  advanced days as
Chinese industrial production exceeded economists’ forecasts.  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the world’s largest offshore-rig
contractor, increased 2.5 percent as S&P Capital IQ upgraded the
shares.  Swisscom AG (SCMN)  rose 1 percent.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  added 0.2 percent to 7,967.98 at
10:49 a.m. in Zurich, as two shares advanced for each one that
fell. Gains were limited as a report showed French industrial
production unexpectedly dropped in June and Federal Reserve Bank
of Dallas President Richard Fisher told the Handelsblatt
newspaper that the U.S. central bank should start tapering its
bond purchases next month if economic data doesn’t deteriorate.  “Chinese data is counterbalanced this morning by weak
manufacturing data from France and talk of further tapering from
Fed President  Richard Fisher ,” Ion-Marc Valahu, co-founder and
 fund manager  at Clairinvest in Geneva, wrote in an e-mail. “So
far this morning, the markets are brushing these warning signs
aside.”  The SMI is little changed this week, bringing its 2013
rally to 17 percent. The broader Swiss Performance Index gained
0.2 percent today.  China’s  industrial output  rose 9.7 percent last month from
a year earlier, according to data from the National Bureau of
Statistics, topping the 8.9 percent  median forecast  of
economists in a Bloomberg survey. The nation’s retail sales
advanced 13.2 percent.  Transocean jumped 2.5 percent to 45.16 Swiss francs,
snapping a three-day decline, as S&P Capital IQ upgraded the
stock to buy from hold.  Swisscom Gains  Swisscom, Switzerland’s biggest phone company, advanced 1
percent to 428.20 francs.  Addex Therapeutics Ltd. (ADXN)  gained 2.3 percent to 3.14 francs
after the biotechnology company raised 3.2 million francs
selling shares to institutional investors.  “These funds have extended our cash runway through 2014,
taking us beyond our next significant clinical event, the
reporting of Phase 2 ADX71149 anxious depression data which is
expected in the first half of the year,” Chief Executive
Officer Tim Dyer wrote in a a statement today.  The volume of shares changing hands in SMI-listed companies
was 17 percent greater than the average of the last 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  