-- PDG Drops in Sao Paulo After Wider-Than-Forecast Quarterly Loss
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R i c h t m y e r
-- 2013-08-09T15:18:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/pdg-drops-in-sao-paulo-after-wider-than-forecast-quarterly-loss.html
PDG Realty SA,  Brazil ’s second-biggest homebuilder by sales, tumbled after reporting a wider
quarterly loss than analysts forecast as customers canceled
purchases and the company burned through cash.  The shares dropped 3.9 percent to 1.71 reais at 11:50 a.m.
in Sao Paulo, extending the loss this week to 5.5 percent. It
led declines today on the BM&FBovespa Real Estate Index, which
fell 0.3 percent.  PDG, based in Rio de Janeiro, posted an adjusted net loss
of 104.9 million reais ($46.2 million) in the second quarter,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg, more than double the
average forecast of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg for a
loss of 37.4 million reais. Canceled sales totaled 373 million
reais during the period, about 44 percent of gross sales, and
the company burned through 412 million reais of cash, according
to Eduardo Silveira, an analyst at BES Securities in Brazil.  “We remain concerned with PDG’s sales cancellations, cash
burning and leverage,” Silveira, who rates the shares sell,
wrote in a note to clients.  PDG and other Brazilian homebuilders have been switching to
more expensive and profitable projects and away from a
government-subsided low-income housing program.  While the most recent results indicate that “the worst
might be behind the company” as it makes that shift, “we do
not rule out further adjustments (sales cancellations) and lower
gross margins coming from old legacy projects,” Silveira wrote.  PDG has dropped 48 percent this year, the second-worst
performance on the real-estate index, which declined 23 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Richtmyer in  New York  at 
 rrichtmyer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  