-- Peru Keeps 4.25% Rate While Signaling More Reserve Cuts Possible
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2013-08-09T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/peru-keeps-4-25-rate-while-signaling-more-reserve-cuts-possible.html
Peru’s central bank kept borrowing
costs unchanged for a 27th straight month while signaling it may
continue reducing  reserve requirements  to counter slower growth.  The five-member board, led by bank President Julio Velarde,
maintained the  overnight rate  at 4.25 percent yesterday,
matching the forecasts of all 13 economists  surveyed  by
Bloomberg. Peru ties  Malaysia  for the longest interest-rate
pause in  developing countries .  “The decision reflects the fact that economic growth is
close to potential and inflation expectations are anchored
within the target range,” according to the board’s  statement 
posted on the bank’s website. “The board, if necessary, will
take additional steps to relax reserve requirements” after
adjustments since April freed up 1 billion soles ($358 million)
and $350 million in U.S. dollars to bolster lending, it said.  Policy makers lowered reserve requirements effective Aug. 1
after growth lagged behind economists’ estimates in five of the
last six months due to a slump in metal exports. The central
bank board has refrained from cutting  interest rates  as domestic
demand is giving Peru the fastest economic growth among major
Latin American countries, said Hedmond Rios, an economist at BTG
Pactual in Santiago.  The central bank on Aug. 1 lowered the percentage of
depositors’ balances in soles and dollars that commercial banks
must have on hand as cash after credit expanded at the slowest
pace since December 2009, and the sol fell to a two-year low.  ‘Clear Signs’  The central bank began relaxing lenders’ reserve ratios in
April after using the measures at least 36 times to tighten the
supply of either soles or dollars between February 2010 and
March this year.  “Clear signs of deceleration” leave the central bank
“trapped in a dilemma of its own,” said  Francisco Rodriguez ,
senior Andean economist at Bank of America Corp., in an e-mailed
note to clients Aug. 6. The bank runs “the risk of losing
credibility if it loosens monetary policy with both core and
headline inflation out of the target band. For now, it will
continue to hold the  reference rate  while possibly considering
some further cuts in reserve requirements.”  Cutting reserve requirements has an immediate impact,
unlike changes to the benchmark rate, and is designed to bolster
demand, Velarde told reporters in Lima on July 24.  “Though consumption continues to be strong, there is a
slight deceleration,” Velarde said. “We’re trying to offset
that a little.”  Growth, Exports  Velarde reiterated the central bank’s 2013 economic growth
forecast of 6.1 percent nine days after the government on July
15 reported that the economy expanded 5 percent in May, below
the 5.5 percent median forecast of analysts in a Bloomberg
survey.  Slower growth in  China  and  Europe  has damped prices for
Peru’s copper and gold, which account for about half of the
South American country’s exports. Copper has declined 11 percent
in  New York  this year, and gold is down 22 percent.  Exports dropped 19 percent in June from a year earlier, and
imports fell 1 percent, the national statistics agency said Aug.
1. Peru had a record trade deficit of $404 million in May. The
agency reports June’s trade balance tomorrow.  Finance Minister Miguel Castilla pledged to speed up
infrastructure investment and cut red tape after business
sentiment plunged to its lowest in at least a year in June,
according to the central bank.  Policy Limits  Cia. De Minas Buenaventura SAA, the country’s largest
precious metals producer, said July 30 it will close three mines
and scale back exploration.  Inretail  Peru  Corp., a Lima-based supermarket operator,
will slow the pace of store openings this year after consumer
demand slowed, Chief Financial Officer Augusto Rey told analysts
during a July 31 conference call.  Lower metal prices caused income tax revenue to fall 3.5
percent in June, the tax agency said July 8. The decline was
offset by a 5.4 percent rise in sales tax collections.  Construction and retail expansions will help mitigate the
external weakness, and policy makers won’t cut borrowing costs
unless they see clear signs of domestic demand slowing, said
Pedro Tuesta, a Latin America economist at 4Cast Inc.  “Growth will be weaker than the central bank was
anticipating,” Tuesta said in a phone interview from
 Washington . “The main reason is external demand for which the
central bank can do nothing.”  Food, Inflation  Higher food prices in July pushed the annual inflation rate
above the central bank’s target range of 1 percent to 3 percent
for the first time in nine months.  Consumer prices rose 0.55 percent, driving annual inflation
to 3.24 percent from 2.77 percent in June. Slower growth will
put inflation back below 3 percent by year-end, BTG Pactual’s
Rios said.  “Inflation is projected to return to the target range in
the third quarter, due to the improvement in food supply
conditions,” policy makers said in their statement.  The  Lima  General stock index has plunged 26 percent this
year in local currency terms, the steepest decline among 94
primary indexes tracked by Bloomberg. The sol has weakened 8.5
percent over the same period.  The central bank sold dollars in the foreign exchange
market last month for the first time since May 2012 to stem
declines in the sol.  “The bank has a lot of room to reduce reserve requirements
while it waits to see better growth figures,” Rios said in a
phone interview before the bank’s decision.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  