-- Petrobras Quarterly Earnings Exceed Estimates on Fuel
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2013-08-09T22:57:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/petrobras-quarterly-earnings-exceed-estimates-on-fuel.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA, the world’s
biggest crude producer in deep waters, reported second-quarter
profit that exceeded analysts’s forecasts on increased fuel
output and a currency hedge that narrowed financial losses.  Net income  was 6.2 billion reais ($2.7 billion), or 48
centavos a share, compared with a loss of 1.35 billion reais a
year earlier, Brazil’s state-controlled producer said today in a
regulatory statement. Per-share profit excluding some items was
expected at 45 centavos, the average of 13 analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Petrobras, based in Rio de Janeiro, lifted output of
refined products 6.5 percent to 2.1 million barrels a day,
reducing the amount of diesel and gasoline it sold under
subsidized prices. Fuel imports fell 47 percent to 261,000
barrels a day while sales rose 8.2 percent to 73.6 billion reais
compared with the 74.7 billion-real average estimate.  “In refining, we continued operating with excellent levels
of efficiency,” Chief Executive Officer Maria das Gracas Foster
said in the statement. “On June 29 and 30 our refining network
reached a record of 2.2 million barrels a day.”  Brazil ’s government, which control’s Petrobras’s board
through a majority of voting shares, hasn’t adjusted fuel prices
since March in a bid to control inflation. Petrobras has
increased prices for gasoline 15 percent and diesel 22 percent
since June 2012 to reduce the discount with international
prices. Losses at Petrobras’s refining and supply division
narrowed 62 percent to 3.8 billion reais.  Currency Hedge  Petrobras began adopting accounting practices in May that
allow exporters to reduce the effect of currency fluctuations on
earnings. The change averted 7.98 billion reais in financial
losses during the quarter, Petrobras said.  A weaker real hurts Petrobras’s profit as the value of the
company’s dollar-denominated debt increases, Chief Financial
Officer Almir Barbassa said in an interview last year. Brazil’s
real was the worst-performing emerging market currency in the
quarter after losing 9.4 percent against the  U.S. dollar .  Petrobras’s royalties and taxes, which are partially based
on Brent  oil prices , fell 5.3 percent from a year earlier to 7.2
billion reais.  Fuel Prices  The decline in the oil price in the quarter had less of an
impact on Petrobras than other large producers because fuel
prices were little changed in Brazil, Auro Rozenbaum, an analyst
at Banco Bradesco SA, said by telephone from  Sao Paulo  before
the earnings report was released.  “When oil prices go down, revenue stays stable, and costs
plunge because the government take goes down,” said Rozenbaum,
who rates the shares hold and doesn’t own any. “When you have
diesel and gasoline prices fixed, the company is short in oil.”  Petrobras used a Brent price of $102.44 a barrel to
calculate second-quarter results, down from $108.19 a year ago,
according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  