-- Pharmstandard Gains 3rd Day on OTC Unit Sale Plan: Moscow Mover
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2013-08-09T13:35:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/pharmstandard-gains-3rd-day-on-otc-unit-sale-plan-moscow-mover.html
OAO Pharmstandard climbed for the
third day in Moscow as the chairman of  Russia ’s biggest
drugmaker said the company is seeking a strategic investor for
its over-the-counter unit.  Pharmstandard rose 4.3 percent to 1,714.80 rubles by 5:19
p.m. in Moscow, with volume of about 13 percent of the three-month average. The stock fell 0.7 percent in  London  in the
second day of declines. Pharmstandard is in no hurry to dispose
of the unit and may choose to maintain ownership, billionaire
Chairman Viktor Kharitonin said in an interview.  Last month, investors fled the stock after Pharmstandard
announced a plan to pay as much as $630 million to buy Bever
Pharmaceutical Pte Ltd., which is controlled by a board member,
and to spin off its OTC drug business. Kharitonin said the
purchase of Bever will be a good deal for the company and that
he has no ulterior motive, such as taking Pharmstandard private.  “Kharitonin only rarely gives interviews and this is the
first time that a company official has admitted that the OTC
business is for sale,” VTB Capital analysts led by Ivan Kushch
said in an e-mailed note. “We remain concerned about the
company’s strategy and whether minority shareholders will be
winners in this game.”  In the three days after the July 8 announcement,
Pharmstandard shares  tumbled  45 percent in London and 34 percent
in Moscow, while Russia’s benchmark  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  gained 1.4
percent.  Shareholders will vote on the acquisition of Bever at a
special meeting on Aug. 17. The purchase will probably be
completed by the end of the year, and the company will be folded
into the OTC business, Kharitonin said. Pharmstandard plans
another shareholder meeting Sept. 27 to vote on the spinoff of
the non-prescription unit.  VTB Capital analysts reiterated their  sell recommendation 
on the stock. Pharmstandard dropped as much as 4.7 percent to
$14.26 in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  