-- Pimco Increases Holdings of Treasuries in Flagship Fund
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-08-09T21:46:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/pimco-increases-holdings-of-treasuries-in-flagship-fund.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
 Bill Gross  raised holdings of Treasuries and other U.S.-
government-related debt in his flagship fund in July to 39
percent, the highest level since April.  The proportion of  U.S. government debt  in the $262 billion
Total Return Fund increased from 38 percent in June, according
to data on Pimco’s  website . The Newport Beach, California-based
company doesn’t comment directly on monthly changes in holdings
or specific types of securities within a market sector.  The Total Return Fund had its third straight month of
withdrawals in July as investors continued to flee bonds.
Clients pulled an estimated $7.5 billion from the fund, leaving
it with $262 billion in assets at the end of the month, the
research firm Morningstar Inc. said Aug. 2 in an e-mailed
statement.  The flight from bond funds was triggered by Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , who rattled markets in May and June by
outlining prospects of ending the central bank’s unprecedented
asset purchases.  The  yield  on Treasury 10-year notes surged to as high as
2.75 percent on July 8, from a 2013 low of 1.61 percent on May
1. It closed at 2.58 percent today.  Mortgage Securities  Gross, Pimco’s co-founder and co-chief investment officer,
also cut holdings of mortgage securities, the fund’s second-largest holding, to 35 percent last month, from 36 percent in
June.  Pimco also shaved non-U.S. developed nations’ debt to 3
percent, from 5 percent in June. U.S. credit, which includes
investment-grade and high-yield securities, was at 9 percent.
The category was previously known as investment grade and
totaled 6 percent in June.  The  Total Return Fund (PTTRX) ’s emerging-market debt holdings were
cut to 6 percent in July, from 7 percent the previous month.  Over the past five years, the Total Return Fund has
returned 7.39 percent, outperforming 92 percent of competitors.
It gained 0.6 percent over the past year, placing it in the 74th
percentile of its category, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The Total Return Fund’s government and Treasury debt
category includes fund holdings of U.S. Treasury notes, bonds,
agency debt, interest-rate swaps and inflation-protected
securities.  Pimco, a unit of the Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE (ALV) ,
managed $1.97 trillion in  assets  as of June 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  