-- Polish Premier Mulls Dismissing Finance Minister, RMF Reports
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i   a n d   K o n r a d   K r a s u s k i
-- 2013-08-09T13:37:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/polish-premier-mulls-dismissing-finance-minister-rmf-reports.html
Poland ’s Prime Minister Donald Tusk
is considering dismissing Deputy Premier and Finance Minister
 Jacek Rostowski , RMF FM radio reported today without saying
where it got the information. The zloty weakened on the news.  The dismissal would be “a done deal” if Tusk had a good
candidate to replace Rostowski, the radio said on its  website ,
citing a politician it didn’t name from the ruling  Civic
Platform  party. The government “doesn’t comment on press
speculation,” Konrad Niklewicz, a spokesman for Tusk, said by
phone from Warsaw.  Tusk’s party has fallen behind the opposition Law and
Justice in opinion polls as the government struggles to revive
the economy, which is set to growth at the slowest pace since
the 1990s this year. Rostowski last month announced plans to
widen this year’s budget deficit and suspend rules limiting
fiscal stimulus to aid recovery. The cabinet is also working to
overhaul the country’s privately-managed pension funds to reduce
public debt.  “We are in a middle of budget revision and the decision
about the shape of the pension reform,”  Piotr Kalisz , chief
economist for Poland at Citigroup Inc., said by phone from
Warsaw today. “It’s hard to imagine a change of the Finance
Minister at this moment. I wouldn’t expect that.”  The zloty pared gains, trading less than 0.1 percent
stronger on the day at 4.1913 against the euro at 2:54 p.m. in
Warsaw. The yields on the government’s two-year bonds rose two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 2.95 percent, rising
for a sixth day. Warsaw’s  WIG stock index  was little changed.  “It would be a serious shock to investors if Rostowski
went,” Peter Attard Montalto, an emerging-market economist at
Nomura International Plc, said by email today. “He connects
with investors very well.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net ;
Konrad Krasuski in Warsaw at 
 kkrasuski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  