-- Private Equity Take From Prison Phone Market Cut by FCC
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2013-08-09T16:08:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/private-equity-take-from-prison-phone-market-cut-by-fcc.html
U.S. regulators reduced interstate
telephone fees charged to inmates by a prison-calling industry
that sends profits to  private equity  firms and  CenturyLink Inc. (CTL)   The Federal Communications Commission, in a 2-to-1
Democratic-led vote at its monthly meeting today, capped rates
and said charges need to be based on the cost of providing
service.  “Today’s order provides immediate relief” from rates as
high as $17 for a 15-minute call, Acting Chairwoman Mignon
Clyburn said.  Prisoners pay as much as $16.55 for a 15-minute interstate
call, according to the FCC. Charges are set by contracts that
state and local agencies strike with companies, and costs can
include commissions the companies pay to the agencies.  The $1.2 billion market is dominated by Global Tel*Link
Corp. and Securus Technologies Inc., closely-held companies.  Civil rights and religious groups supported by some members
of Congress have pressed the FCC to act on a petition filed in
2003 by prisoners and family members to cut rates they termed
“exorbitant.” High rates isolate prisoners from family
members, the advocates said.  CenturyLink in a July 26 filing said it was against rate
caps. Abrupt changes could render existing contracts uneconomic,
the Monroe, Louisiana-based company said, citing its expenditure
of “tens of millions of dollars” building a system for  Texas .  Prison Market  About 20 percent of CenturyLink’s revenue comes from a unit
that offers wholesale connections to other phone providers and
includes “a small payphone and inmate services business,”  R. Stewart Ewing Jr., the company’s chief financial officer, said
at a conference in November 2011 without offering details. A
spokeswoman, Debra Peterson, via telephone declined to comment.  Global Tel*Link, based in Mobile,  Alabama , has about 50
percent of the correctional phone services market, followed by
Dallas-based Securus with almost 30 percent, according to
 Standard & Poor’s .  Global Tel*Link is owned by American Securities LLC, a Park
Avenue private equity firm. Mark Kollar, a spokesman, via
telephone declined to comment.  A New York-based private equity firm,  Castle Harlan  Inc.,
is said to have proposed selling Securus to ABRY Partners LLC, a
Boston-based firm. Mike Millican, a spokesman for Castle Harlan,
in an e-mail declined to comment. A telephone call to Securus
wasn’t immediately returned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  