-- Quicken Pitches ARMs as Borrowers Balk at Higher Rates
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n   a n d   H e a t h e r   P e r l b e r g
-- 2013-08-09T14:27:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/quicken-pitches-arms-as-borrowers-balk-at-higher-rates.html
Quicken Loans Inc., the online home
lender that jumped last year to No. 3 in U.S. originations, is
pitching more adjustable mortgages as rising  rates  put an end to
the refinancing boom.  About 20 percent of Quicken applications are for adjustable
rates, up from 5 percent earlier this year, said Bob Walters,
vice president of its capital markets group. The loans, which
typically have fixed rates for set periods before adjusting, are
now a better option than 30-year fixed mortgages for many
borrowers, including people  refinancing  fixed loans, since they
probably won’t own their home for three decades, he said.  “People on average move every seven to 10 years,”
Walters, who’s also Quicken’s chief economist, said in an
interview in New York. “All that security they’re paying for
with a higher rate generally isn’t used.” He personally always
uses ARMs, he said.  Mortgage lenders are looking for ways to keep borrowers
coming as rising rates choke off demand, especially for
refinancing, where  applications  have dropped 57 percent from
this year’s high in May. Wells Fargo & Co., the biggest U.S.
home lender, expects volume to slide the rest of this year, and
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon 
predicted “a dramatic reduction in profits.”  Rising Rates  Borrowing costs are climbing because of speculation the
 Federal Reserve  will scale back its effort to stimulate the
economy with low  interest rates . The impact on mortgage
securities has been uneven, widening the gap in June between 5-year adjustable mortgages and 30-year traditional loans to the
biggest since at least 2004.  Nationally, rates on 30-year fixed mortgages have climbed
to 4.4 percent, from a near-record low 3.35 percent in early
May. Five-year ARMs  climbed  to 3.19 percent, from 2.56 percent,
according to  Freddie Mac  surveys. The difference between the two
reached 1.38 percentage points in the last week of June.  That gap is where Quicken sees an opportunity, Walters
said. His Detroit-based firm this week was offering 5-year ARMs
at 2.88 percent and 30-year fixed loans for 4.25 percent,
according to its website. The pitch for the ARMs, which it calls
“ Amazing 5 Mortgages ,” was anchored in the center of the
lender’s home page.  Last year, which Walters called “the best of times” for
industry volumes and margins, his firm overtook  Bank of America
Corp.  and U.S. Bancorp to become the No. 3 originator in the
fourth quarter, up from 34th in 2006, according to newsletter
Inside Mortgage Finance. Bank of America has since surpassed
Quicken for the first half of this year. Wells Fargo and
JPMorgan remain the largest home lenders.  ‘Fierce Competitor’  The company, owned by billionaire  Dan Gilbert , made about
$25 billion of mortgages in each of the first two quarters of
this year, compared with $70 billion in all of 2012 and $30
billion the year before.  “Quicken is a fierce competitor,” said  David Lykken ,
managing partner of the Austin, Texas-based consulting firm
Mortgage Banking Solutions. “They like their market share and
they will do everything they can to keep it. but they’re not
going to be stupid about it.”  Adjustable-rate loan applications  rose  to 6 percent of the
industrywide total last week from 2.9 percent at the start of
the year, according to Mortgage Bankers Association data. With
fixed rates projected to gain in the next two years, ARMs will
underpin about one-tenth of the market, according to Freddie
Mac, the McLean, Virginia-based mortgage finance company. That’s
still down from a peak of 37 percent in 2005.  Housing Bust  Adjustable-rate loans were blamed for fueling the housing
bubble and subsequent bust that led to a 35 percent slump in
 home values  because they left borrowers facing potentially
unaffordable payments later. While that tainted their
reputation, “it had very little to do with ARMs and everything
to do with terrible underwriting,” Walters said. “Subprime
fixed-rate loans also blew up.”  At the same time, “there are certain risks inherent in
ARMs that aren’t in fixed-rate” mortgages, said  Keith Gumbinger , vice president of HSH.com, a Riverdale, New Jersey-based mortgage data firm. Adjustments are tied to short-term
interest rate benchmarks, which the Fed has held near zero since
2008. The trick for borrowers is whether they can move or
refinance before those rates head back toward their historic
levels, which  exceeded  5 percent as recently as 2007, or save
enough in the meantime.  ‘Good Fit’  “There are some audiences for whom refinancing into ARMs
are a good fit,” Gumbinger said. “If you are within a handful
of years to  retirement age , you only need a mortgage with a
handful of years of a fixed rate.”  The most dangerous ARMs aren’t available in the market
anymore, he said. Those included mortgages whose balances could
increase and payments that could double.  Quicken’s business model differs from most of its rivals.
It eschews branches and relationships with mortgage brokers or
other independent lenders and grants loans almost solely through
its website and call centers. In 2010, it began to strike deals
with community banks to fund loans to their customers on a co-branded basis.  The firm built a reputation for  customer service  with J.D.
Power and Associates  awards  for the past three years. It also
advertises on television and online, buys leads from aggregators
such as LowerMyBills.com and has started sponsoring a Nascar
racing team.  Playing HARP  It’s also seeking business by sending out books that open
to play videos on screens aimed at borrowers who still hold
high-rate mortgages and may be eligible to tap the federal Home
Affordable Refinance Program, Walters said.  That program is designed for people with little or no home
equity, and Quicken is joining San Francisco-based  Wells Fargo (WFC) ,
which accounted for about one of every three mortgages last
year, and Lewisville, Texas-based  Nationstar Mortgage Holdings
Inc. (NSM)  in saying it may help sustain demand.  Monthly data sent this week to mortgage-bond investors
showed higher-rate loans prepaying about as fast or faster than
in June, even as a slump among lower-rate loans drove a total 9
percent drop for  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  30-year securities, according to
JPMorgan analyst Brian Ye.  “The jury is still out on” when the pace might slow among
higher-rate loans, Morgan Stanley analyst Vipul Jain wrote this
week in a note to clients.  Customer Response  The challenge is to get those borrowers, some of who may
have been turned down previously, to respond to solicitations,
Walters said. Quicken goes after them with general advertising,
and also has relationships with loan servicers -- firms that do
billing and collections on  existing mortgages  -- that don’t have
the ability to originate new ones on their own, he said.  Quicken’s ability to strike those relationships was cited
by Morgan Stanley and Nomura Securities International analysts
last year as helping bolster total HARP lending.  The firm’s video books show three 40-second segments,
including one with CEO Bill Emerson, to a targeted batch of
potential customers in an attempt to use a “wow factor” to
catch their attention, Walters said. The company may buy more
servicing contracts to get access to more potential customers,
he said.  “There’s not a lot of firms that have the capital and the
50-state origination capabilities that we do to monetize” the
opportunity, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;
Heather Perlberg in New York at 
 hperlberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net ; 