-- Radian Says Unit May Need Capital as U.S. Mulls Standards
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-08-09T20:10:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/radian-says-unit-may-need-capital-as-u-s-mulls-standards.html
     Aug. 9 (Bloomberg) -- Radian Group Inc., the insurer whose
stock more than doubled this year, said its unit guaranteeing
home loans may need additional capital if U.S.-backed housing
finance companies tighten their demands.  U.S. regulators are seeking to strengthen an industry that
protects against losses at taxpayer-owned Fannie Mae and  Freddie
Mac , known as government-sponsored enterprises or GSEs. Radian
and  MGIC Investment Corp. (MTG)  raised capital this year in stock and
bond sales after surviving the housing slump that pushed rivals
from the business.  “Eligibility requirements may include new capital
standards for private mortgage insurers,” Philadelphia-based
Radian said in a regulatory filing today. If the new rules
include “more onerous” standards, “it is likely that we would
need to provide additional capital support to, or arrange
additional capital relief for, Radian Guaranty, including
potentially, greater than anticipated capital contributions from
Radian Group.”  Radian  fell  15 cents, or 1.1 percent, to $14 at 4:02 p.m.
in  New York  after trading as high as $14.37 before the filing.
MGIC erased gains to close down 0.1 percent.  President  Barack Obama  is pushing for the U.S. to scale
back from its role in covering losses when home loans sour. He
called for private capital to take more of the risk in the real
estate market in a speech this week, as  Fannie Mae  and Freddie
Mac are wound down.  Risk, Capital  Some regulators currently require mortgage insurers to
maintain the ratio of risk to capital below 25-to-1. The new
rules may require a ratio of about 18-to-1, Radian Chief
Financial Officer Robert Quint said on a conference call with
analysts last month. The ratio at Radian Guaranty was 19.7 to 1
as of June 30, the company said in a July 24 statement.  “We fully expect to have the ability to comply with any
such requirements within the implementation timeframe,” Quint
said on the call. Radian had about $816 million in liquidity at
the holding company at June 30, he said.  Radian raised $689 million in this year’s offerings, and
Milwaukee-based MGIC took in more than $1 billion.  John Paulson ,
the billionaire hedge fund manager, invested in both companies
as part of a bet on a housing-market recovery in the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  