-- RBA Lowers Growth Outlook as Economy Transitions From Mining
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-08-09T03:24:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/rba-cuts-growth-outlook-as-economy-transitions-from-mining-1-.html
The Reserve Bank of Australia lowered
its growth outlook as the economy transitions from mining
investment, a process that may be aided by the currency falling
further from its still “high level.”  “The forecast for Australian GDP continues to embody a
transition in the drivers of growth from mining investment to
other parts of domestic demand, and to exports,” the RBA said
in its quarterly monetary policy  statement  released in Sydney
today. “There remains considerable uncertainty about how this
transition will proceed.”  Gross domestic product will rise 2.25 percent in the year
to December 2013, compared with 2.5 percent forecast three
months earlier, the central bank said. Core consumer prices will
increase 2.25 percent in the year to June 2014, below the mid-point of the RBA’s 2 percent to 3 percent target.  The growth projections underscore the challenge for Prime
Minister Kevin Rudd as he pitches for another term based on
economic management ahead of the Sept. 7 election. Governor
Glenn Stevens and his board reduced the overnight cash-rate
target to a record-low 2.5 percent this week as a benign
inflation outlook allows him to boost industries including
residential construction.  ‘More Color’  “The statement provides a little more color on why they
cut rates, which was the moderation slightly in the growth
forecast to the end of this year,” said Joshua Williamson, a
senior economist at Citigroup Inc. in Sydney. “But it didn’t
give much in the way of forward guidance for monetary policy.”  The central bank said  Australia ’s weakening export prices
relative to import prices, or terms of trade, may help push the
currency lower and aid the pickup outside resource industries.  “As the terms of trade decline and mining investment falls
back from its high level, the exchange rate could depreciate
further,” the RBA said. “This would help to assist with the
required rebalancing of growth in the domestic economy.”  The local currency was little changed today at 91.11 U.S.
cents as of 1:23 p.m. in Sydney, heading for a 2.4 percent
weekly advance.  The central bank based its forecasts on an unchanged cash
rate of 2.5 percent, while noting this “profile is slightly
higher than market expectations” which currently imply a
further 25 basis point cut by the end of the year.  Bank Liaison  The RBA said its outlook for mining investment has been
revised lower. It said that while the statistics bureau’s
capital expenditure survey showed the expectations component
remains strong, “this is inconsistent with information from the
bank’s liaison, few new commitments to mining projects and a
lack of current expenditure on the development and planning work
that would typically precede new projects.”  The Aussie has fallen 11 percent against the U.S. dollar in
the past three months, the worst performer among group of 10
currencies, as  China ’s outlook darkened and Federal Reserve
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke signaled for the first time May 22 that
a tapering of bond purchases that have devalued the greenback
may be on the cards as the world’s largest economy strengthens.  The exchange rate “has depreciated noticeably over recent
months, although it remains at a high level,” the central bank
said. It estimated in the statement that “a 10 percent
depreciation of the exchange rate stimulates GDP growth by 0.5
to 1 percentage point over a period of two years or so.”  ‘High Level’  The central bank projected a “slightly weaker” outlook
for the global economy as growth in China, Australia’s biggest
trading partner, “is now unlikely to pick up much, if at all,
in coming quarters. Rather, it is expected to remain at a pace
that is close to the official target.”  Industry has been squeezed by a currency that held above $1
from mid-June last year to May 9, the longest stretch above
parity with the U.S. dollar since the Aussie was freely floated
in 1983. A private gauge released Aug. 1 showed manufacturing
slumped 7.6 points to 42 last month, the biggest decline since
April. Fifty is the dividing line between growth and
contraction.  Australian employers unexpectedly cut payrolls by 10,200 in
July and  unemployment  held at an almost four-year high of 5.7
percent as fewer people sought work, denting Rudd’s bid for a
come-from-behind election win. The government on Aug. 2
predicted the unemployment rate would rise to an 11-year high of
6.25 percent by July.  ‘Only Modest’  “Employment growth is expected to be only modest over the
next few quarters, consistent with the below-trend growth of the
economy,” the central bank said today. “This will see the
unemployment rate increase gradually for a year or so.”  The RBA’s 2.25 percentage points of  rate cuts  since
November 2011 are designed to boost demand and hiring in the
nation’s south and east to pick up some of the slack in the
economy as the mining investment boom peaks.  There are signs looser policy is having some effect.
Australian  house prices  rose by the most in more than three
years in the second quarter, jumping 2.4 percent from three
months earlier.  “Conditions in the housing market continue to improve,”
the central bank said today. This, “along with strong
population growth and the relatively low level of dwelling
investment for some years now, point to a continued rise in
dwelling investment in the period ahead.”  The political dividend for Rudd from lower borrowing costs
stems from the boost it provides the approximately 90 percent of
mortgagees with  variable-rate loans . At the same time, the
government last week announced a blow out in the budget deficit
this fiscal year to A$30.1 billion.  Below Trend  “The RBA hasn’t taken further easing off the table as
growth is below trend and inflation low,” said Katrina Ell, an
economist at Moody’s Analytics in Sydney. “The mining boom has
masked weakness in the domestic economy that has becoming
apparent now.”  Rudd is framing the election as a battle between David
Cameron-style austerity from the opposition and his own program
that allows the deficit to widen as it prioritizes jobs. Labor
trailed the opposition by 4 percentage points on a two-party
preferred basis in a Newspoll published Aug. 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  