-- Regulators Limit Obamacare Break as Critics Predict Fraud: Taxes
-- B y   R a l p h   L i n d e m a n
-- 2013-08-09T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/regulators-limit-obamacare-break-as-critics-predict-fraud-taxes.html
Regulators moved to limit a potential
loophole that critics say could have been used for fraud in the
new state insurance systems set up by the president’s health-care law.  Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services rules would have
allowed some people to bypass income-verification requirements
when applying for federal subsidies to help them purchase health
 coverage , Bloomberg BNA reported. This week, the agency said the
allowances would only be made in the first year and only under
limited circumstances.  “Income verification on the exchanges will be a lot more
substantive than we initially thought,” said Timothy Jost, a
professor of health law and policy at Washington & Lee
University School of Law.  The  Congressional Budget Office   estimates  that 7 million
Americans will initially participate in the exchanges, created
by the Affordable Care Act.  The rules, released in July, said exchanges wouldn’t need
to verify  household income  in every case where an applicant’s
self-reported income dropped by more than 10 percent below the
most recent data available from the  Internal Revenue Service .
The agency was going to let exchanges get follow-up verification
from a “statistically significant sample” of applicants who were
unable to provide the initial verification information.  The announcement triggered concern in Congress that the
agency was opening the door to fraud by allowing applicants for
federal subsidies -- also known as “premium tax credits” -- to
“self attest” as to their income eligibility.  Limited Application  At an Aug. 1 hearing of the  House Ways and Means  Committee,
Representative  Dave Camp , the committee’s Republican chairman,
questioned whether the IRS could effectively monitor premium tax
credit payouts under those procedures.  In the two-page guidance issued this week, CMS clarified
that exceptions to the full income verification requirements
would  apply  only to exchanges operated in the 16 states and D.C.
that have opted to build and operate their own exchanges.  In the 34 states not building their own exchanges -- where
the so-called federally facilitated exchange will operate -- CMS
said it will require full income verification in all instances.  “Since publication of the final rule, we have ascertained
that there are sufficient resources to ask every individual in
this circumstance for such documentation with no exceptions,”
the agency’s guidance said.  In explaining how income verification would be handled in
the exchanges, the agency said data provided by an applicant
would be checked against information from the IRS and the  Social
Security Administration .  90 Days  If the IRS and SSA can’t verify the income data, the
information is compared with wage information from employers
provided by Equifax, a credit-reporting and income database
firm. If Equifax can’t substantiate it, the exchange must
request an explanation or additional documentation.  If the applicant meets all other eligibility requirements,
the exchange will provide premium tax credits or other cost-sharing reductions for 90 days.  If the applicant fails to provide the additional
documentation, the exchange will determine eligibility based on
the most recent IRS and SSA data. If the data are unavailable,
the exchange will discontinue any advance payments of the
premium tax credits, the guidance said.  “The hope has always been that exchanges would be doing
real-time eligibility verification,” Jost said. “Now we know
there will be more cases when final determinations will not be
done in real time. But I think for most people, it’s going to
mean the exchange will tell them, ‘go get a pay stub and fax it
to us.’ I think there will be very few cases when it’s going to
take 90 days to clarify income eligibility.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cesca Antonelli at   fantonelli@bloomberg.net  