-- Rubiales Tumbles as Depreciation Erodes Earnings: Bogota Mover
-- B y   A n d r e w   W i l l i s
-- 2013-08-09T21:46:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/rubiales-profit-misses-estimates-with-74-slump-on-peso-weakness.html
Pacific Rubiales Energy Corp. (PRE) , Latin
America’s most valuable non-state crude producer, fell the most
in four months after second-quarter profit declined more than
analysts estimated on foreign-exchange losses and higher costs.  The shares tumbled 6.4 percent to 36,600 pesos at the close
in Bogota, the steepest drop since April 3. The Bogota-based
company said in a statement late yesterday that net income fell
74 percent to $57.6 million, or 18 cents a share, from $224
million, or 76 cents, a year earlier. Per-share profit before
some items was expected at 45 cents, the average of nine
 analysts’ estimates  tracked by Bloomberg.  Earnings were dragged down by accounting items including
losses associated with depreciation of the Colombian peso and a
97 percent surge in production costs. Sales rose 1.9 percent to
$1.1 billion while earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization increased 7 percent.  “Production costs, largely outside of management control,
continue to rise,” Justin Anderson, a Calgary-based analyst at
Salman Partners, said in a research note dated today, cutting
his recommendation to hold from buy.  Record Production  Colombia’s oil industry has attracted unprecedented foreign
investment over the past decade, boosting output to more than 1
million barrels a day this year. Quarterly net production at
Pacific Rubiales climbed 38 percent from a year earlier to
127,555 barrels of oil equivalent a day.  “Production volumes continue to be at record levels and we
are on track to achieve the high end of our annual production
guidance,” Chief Executive Officer Ronald Pantin said in the
statement.  Pacific said Aug. 6 it secured a license for additional
water injection at its namesake Rubiales field, enabling the
company to boost production. Rubiales accounts for 65 percent of
its production, according to a July presentation, with the
company’s license scheduled to expire in 2016.  Pacific Rubiales has applied for a license to develop its
CPE-6 Block, with a public hearing with local communities and
stakeholders scheduled to conclude this month. The company
expects to receive an exploration and development license within
three to six weeks of the conclusion of this process.  CPE-6 may be producing at 5,000 barrels per day by the end
of the year, Pantin said on a conference call with investors
today. Both the CPE-6 block and Rubiales field are located in
the Llanos basin.  Colombia’s peso weakened 5.1 percent against the dollar in
the second quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Willis in Bogota at 
 awillis21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  