-- Russian Economy Unexpectedly Slows as Recession Specter Returns
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2013-08-09T14:54:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/russian-economy-unexpectedly-slows-to-weakest-pace-since-2009.html
Russia ’s economy unexpectedly slowed
in the second quarter to extend a slide that’s stoking concern
the world’s biggest energy exporter may be entering a recession.  Gross domestic product  expanded 1.2 percent from a year
earlier, the Federal Statistics Service in Moscow said today in
an e-mailed report. That was below all 19 forecasts in a
Bloomberg  survey , which had a median estimate of 2 percent. The
Economy Ministry had projected that output expanded 1.9 percent
in the period.  Sagging  investment  and household spending, once a mainstay
of the economic recovery, are dragging the nation to the brink
of a recession, compounding the challenges Russia faces from
weaker global demand for its commodities. Russia’s central bank,
which left its main rates unchanged for an 11th month today,
will probably face another bout of pressure to ease policy after
signaling increased concern about the economy.  “Second-quarter GDP is seriously disappointing and is a
very strong argument for monetary-policy easing,” said  Piotr Matys , an emerging-markets economist at 4Cast Ltd. in  London .
“Weak external demand and investments are still the main drag
on the economy, but we suspect that final consumption, which has
been the only relatively strong component so far, may have
weakened as well.”  The ruble-denominated  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  of 50 stocks advanced 1.5
percent to 1382.88 as of 5:45 p.m. in Moscow. The ruble
depreciated 0.1 percent to 32.866 against the dollar.  Recession Seen  The data suggest a 0.5 percent contraction in the quarter
compared with the previous three months, when GDP is estimated
to have shrunk 0.1 percent,  Neil Shearing  and Liza Ermolenko,
economists at  Capital Economics  Ltd in London, said in a report.  Economy Minister  Alexei Ulyukayev , a former first deputy
central bank chairman, said July 16 that Russia faced no
recession risk with output growth set to accelerate in the
second half. His predecessor, Andrei Belousov, warned in April
of the possibility of a recession later this year.  The chance of a recession in the next year has increased to
30 percent, according to a Bloomberg survey of 13 economists
last month. That was up from 20 percent in June.  Economic growth has slowed every quarter since the final
three months of 2011 as investment slumped and the government
slowed spending increases following President  Vladimir Putin ’s
re-election in March 2012. Today’s report didn’t provide any
breakdown of the data.  Stagnation Assumed  “We’re going on the assumption that we had stagnation,
both in the first and the second quarters,” Deputy Economy
Minister  Andrei Klepach  said in a telephone interview today when
asked whether the country had entered a technical recession.  Trade has weakened, with Russia’s surplus narrowing 11
percent in the first half from a year earlier, according to
Federal Customs Service data.  “Weak investment activity and a slow recovery in foreign
demand indicate that there remain significant risks of a Russian
economic growth slowdown, including in the medium term,” the
central bank said in a statement accompanying today’s rate
decision.  The first-half downturn has left the pace of growth too
weak to achieve the government’s goals, Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev  said at a July 25 meeting at which the cabinet approved
a stimulus plan to boost the economy.  Stocks have fallen, missing out on a rally in the U.S. that
sent the  S&P 500 Index (SPX)  to a record high last week. The dollar-denominated  RTS Index (RTSI$)  of 50 stocks is down 14 percent this year,
more than the MSCI Emerging Market Index’s 10 percent decline.  “Looking ahead, some of the headwinds facing the economy
are likely to ease over the second half of the year,” Capital
Economics’ Shearing and Ermolenko said. “Inflation should fall
back, which will reduce pressure on real incomes.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  