-- SAC Allowed by Federal Judge to Keep Operating
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-08-10T14:00:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/sac-business-plan-letting-it-keep-operating-approved-by-judge.html
SAC Capital Advisors LP, which is
facing federal insider-trading charges and a  money-laundering 
lawsuit, was granted court approval to continue operating until
the cases are resolved.  U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan in  Manhattan , who’s
presiding over the money-laundering case, yesterday signed an
order to protect the  Stamford , Connecticut-based fund’s
legitimate operations from being impeded by the government while
the case is pending.  The indictment of SAC, the New York hedge fund owned by
 Steven A. Cohen , and the related laundering case were announced
July 25 by Manhattan U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara , who called SAC
“a veritable magnet for market cheaters.” Bharara said SAC
reaped hundreds of millions of dollars in illicit profits
through separate insider-trading schemes by at least eight
former SAC fund managers and analysts.  “By entering a restraining order, the court can preserve
the status quo pending the jury’s verdict and the outcome of any
proportionality hearing,” according to the order jointly
submitted by prosecutors and SAC. “Here the government requests
a protective order that imposes limited measures designed to
preserve the availability of the defendant property for
forfeiture.”  Assets Covered  The approved plan requires that during both cases, SAC will
maintain at least 85 percent of the “aggregate value” of
assets owned by the firm’s “entity defendants” as of July 1,
and in exchange, allows for the fund to continue its lawful
operations. If the assets fall below the specified level in a
given month, the fund is required to “replenish” the monies,
according to yesterday’s order.  The plan covers about $6 billion of assets not overseen for
clients or employees of SAC, according to a person with
knowledge of the matter, who asked not to be identified because
the information is private. That means the firm must maintain
about $5 billion of assets. SAC managed about $14 billion
earlier this year, including $9 billion for Cohen and employees.  The agreement provides for the U.S. to receive adequate
information to ensure that the fund’s property is being
maintained and that business documents are preserved for trial.
It gives the judge jurisdiction over SAC’s property.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for SAC at Sard Verbinnen
& Co., declined to comment on yesterday’s filing.  Innocent Owners  While Cohen, 57, wasn’t charged in the indictment or sued,
prosecutors said he “encouraged” SAC employees to obtain
trading information from company insiders while ignoring
indications that it was illegal. In the civil case, the U.S.
alleged that SAC engaged in money laundering, “commingling the
illegal profits from  insider trading  with other assets, using
the profits to promote additional insider trading.”  If a jury concludes in a civil trial that SAC funds are
subject to forfeiture because the firm laundered illegal insider
trading proceeds, jurors also will have to determine whether
there were “innocent owners,” according to the agreement.  The agreement defines an innocent owner as someone who
“did not know of the conduct giving rise to forfeiture” or
after learning about the conduct, “did all that reasonably
could be expected under the circumstances.”  During a second phase of the trial before the judge, the
innocent owners or any others who say they have claims to the
business or funds will have to prove to the court why forfeiture
of the entire sum sought by prosecutors is “grossly
disproportionate” or “excessive,” according to the agreement.  Redemptions Expected  Two from SAC charged with insider trading, former  fund
manager  Mathew Martoma and Michael Steinberg, a fund manager at
the firm’s Sigma Capital unit, are scheduled for separate trials
in November.  Former SAC fund managers and analysts who have pleaded
guilty include Noah Freeman, Donald Longueuil, Jon Horvath,
Wesley Wang, Richard Choo-Beng Lee and Richard Lee.  Weeks before SAC was indicted, firm employees expected
clients to say they would take back most of the $4 billion they
hadn’t already marked for redemptions by early next year, people
with knowledge of the situation said at the time. Clients said
in the first quarter they would pull $1.68 billion.  The firm was once one of the most successful in the hedge-fund industry, with returns averaging 25 percent since 1992.
Cohen has considered running SAC as a family office to oversees
his fortune, a move that would probably require layoffs among
his 1,000 employees.  The cases are U.S. v. SAC Capital Advisors LP, 13-cr-00541;
U.S. v. SAC Capital Advisors LP 13-cv-05182, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  