-- Samsung Agrees to Buy German Screen Lighting Firm Novaled
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   S h i n h y e   K a n g
-- 2013-08-09T16:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/samsung-agrees-to-buy-german-screen-lighting-firm-novaled.html
Samsung Group (005930)  agreed to buy Novaled
AG, a German maker of materials used to light up smartphone and
television screens, in the third-largest South Korean-German
deal in at least a decade.  Samsung affiliate  Cheil Industries Inc. (001300)  signed an agreement
to buy about 50 percent of Novaled while Samsung Electronics Co.
Ltd. will acquire 40 percent, the companies said today in a
 statement . Samsung Venture Investment already owns 10 percent.
The transaction values the Dresden-based firm at 260 million
euros ($347 million) including a 30 million-euro contingency
payment based on certain milestones.  Samsung is pushing to gain control of organic light-emitting diode, or OLED, technology as users shift to thinner
screens in smartphones and  televisions . The technology offers
sharper, brighter images while consuming less power. Novaled
makes organic materials and technology for OLEDs, used for
televisions and mobile phones, as well as by the lighting and
solar-power industries, according to its website.  “This is a strong signal for the future success of
venture-capital investments in  Germany ,” Paul-Josef Patt, chief
executive officer at Novaled investor ECapital Entrepreneurial
Partners AG, said in a telephone interview today. “We are
seeing growing interest from foreign investors in German
startups.”  In addition to the sales process, Novaled had also
considered an initial public offering on the Nasdaq stock
exchange in  New York . Novaled’s main investors include ECapital,
Omnes Capital, Second TechnoStart Ventures Fonds GmbH & Co. KG,
TechFund Europe Management SAS and Samsung Venture Investment,
according to its website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Shinhye Kang in Seoul at 
 skang24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  