-- Jason Dufner Leads PGA Championship by Two After Record-Tying 63
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-08-10T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/scott-leads-pga-championship-by-one-over-westwood-as-rain-falls.html
Jason Dufner  takes a two-shot lead
into the third round of golf’s  PGA Championship  after tying the
record for the lowest score at a major tournament.  Dufner, who lost the 2011 PGA Championship in a playoff,
shot a 7-under-par 63 yesterday at Oak Hill Country Club outside
Rochester,  New York , and is now 9 under par through 36 holes.
He’s two shots ahead of Masters champion  Adam Scott  of Australia
and fellow Americans  Jim Furyk  and  Matt Kuchar .  Dufner, 36, came up about a foot short on a 12-foot birdie
putt on the par-4 18th hole that would have given him the first
62 in major championship history. Dufner said afterward his
nerves caught up with him, as he settled for the 26th round of
63 in one of the sport’s four major championships.  “To join history, to shoot a 63 in a major is pretty
unbelievable, and to be leading the tournament, even better,”
Dufner said at his post-round news conference. “Hopefully it
will propel me to a great weekend.”  Dufner made an eagle on his second hole yesterday, holing
his approach shot from 105 yards, and added five birdies.  Dufner’s 63 is the first since  Steve Stricker  during the
first round of the 2011 PGA Championship at Atlanta Athletic
Club. He’s the 12th player to post a score of 63 at the PGA
Championship, the last of the four annual majors, and was
congratulated by Stricker, his playing partner, as he signed his
official card in the scoring trailer.  Course Record  “To be part of that history is really a neat
accomplishment,” said Dufner, who also broke the professional
tournament course record of 64 shared by Ben Hogan, Curtis
Strange and  Webb Simpson , who did it earlier yesterday.  There are 10 players within five strokes of Dufner entering
today’s third round, though four-time PGA champion Tiger Woods
and British Open champion  Phil Mickelson  aren’t among them.
Woods, winless in his past 17 major championship starts, is 1
over and tied for 38th, while Mickelson is a stroke further back
after consecutive rounds of 71.  “I’m so far back that if the leaders go ahead and run off
with it and shoot a low one, I’m going to be pretty far
behind,” said Woods, who has a third-round tee time of 11:05
a.m. New York time. “I have got to do my job and go out there
and post something in the mid to low 60s.”  There are a total of 27 players under par through two
rounds and 75 players made the cut for weekend play by shooting
3 over par or better.  Record Tying  Dufner’s total score of 131 through two rounds matches the
36-hole scoring record at the PGA Championship, set most
recently by  David Toms  and Shingo Katayama in 2001. Others at
131 midway through the championship were Hal Sutton in 1983,
 Vijay Singh  in 1993, and Ernie Els and  Mark O’Meara  in 1995.
Only Sutton and Toms went on to win.  “What’s happened in the past with me in majors is in the
past,” said Dufner, who blew a five-shot lead with four holes
to play at the 2011 PGA Championship before losing to Keegan Bradley in a playoff. “I’m still trying to chase it, still
trying to learn from the mistakes that I made in prior majors,
and I’m excited that I’m in the lead. I’m looking forward to a
good weekend and maybe closing one of these out.”  Dufner will tee off today with Scott at 2:55 p.m., while
Furyk and Kuchar are in the next-to-last pairing.  Kuchar had gotten to 8 under par yesterday before making a
bogey at the 18th hole for a round of 66.  Scott, who in April became the first Australian to win the
 Masters Tournament , shot a 2-under-par 68 while playing much of
his morning round in a steady rain. Furyk joined Kuchar and
Scott at 7 under after shooting 68 yesterday.  Four-Stroke Penalty  Justin Rose  of England, the U.S. Open champion, birdied his
final two holes for a 66 that left him 6 under. Henrik Stenson
of Sweden is also 6 under, one shot better than Stricker and
Robert Garrigus of the U.S.  Woody Austin missed the cut by one stroke after receiving a
four-stroke penalty yesterday for exceeding the 14-club limit.  Austin didn’t discover he had an extra 3-iron in his bag
until he was on the third hole and was penalized two strokes on
both the first and second holes, leading to a 75.  Among other players who failed to qualify for the weekend
were Bubba Watson,  Charl Schwartzel , Luke Donald, Ernie Els and
 Shaun Micheel , who won the PGA Championship the last time it was
held at Oak Hill in 2003.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  