-- SEC Probe of Foreign Visas Roils Virginia Governor Race
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z   a n d   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2013-08-09T16:17:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/sec-probe-of-foreign-visas-roils-virginia-governor-race.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission and other government agencies are conducting a broad
probe of “potential security and financial risks” in a foreign
visa program used to promote job growth, according to a letter
sent to the Senate yesterday.  The investigations are becoming an issue in the  Virginia 
governor’s race, where Terry McAuliffe, a Democratic fundraiser
and confidant of Bill and Hillary Clinton, partnered in 2009
with a Chinese businessman in a startup company, GreenTech
Automotive Inc., and worked with Anthony Rodham, the former
first lady’s brother, to secure financing from Chinese
investors.  In December, McAuliffe, 56, resigned from GreenTech to
devote full time to his campaign. He left behind a company that
employs fewer people than promised, hasn’t produce many cars and
is drawing government scrutiny for promises made in its pitch to
prospective foreign backers -- details that Republican candidate
Ken Cuccinelli, himself fending off criticism over ties to a
developer under scrutiny, has repeatedly raised on the campaign
trail.  A closer look at GreenTech illustrates what some analysts
and government investigators say are broader flaws in a two-decade-old program that gives foreign investors  green cards  in
exchange for $500,000 investments that create or preserve at
least 10 American jobs. There are 10,000 so-called “EB-5”
visas available each year.  Program Skepticism  “I’m very skeptical about this program,” said David
Martin, a law professor at the University of Virginia who has
served as general counsel to the Immigration and Naturalization
Service and as a deputy counselor to the Department of Homeland
Security, in the Clinton and Obama administrations. “It’s
doubtful how much these visas have contributed to jobs and the
overall economy. And has it been worth all of the effort and
complications?”  Federal agencies including the SEC and U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services formed a team last year to “examine
potential security and financial risks associated with the EB-5
program,” according to a letter dated yesterday from the SEC to
Senator Charles Grassley, an Iowa Republican who has been asking
questions about the visas.  In addition, the SEC is conducting its own review. In
February, it  filed  a securities fraud claim against a Chicago
man seeking foreign money to build a “green” hotel, and in
July the commission sent a document subpoena to GreenTech, the
company confirmed in a statement. Other firms are also under
scrutiny and could face fines and other civil penalties.  Homeland Investigation  The Department of Homeland Security’s inspector general
also has been auditing the EB-5 program for a year, according to
an e-mail from the inspector’s office to Grassley, which the
lawmaker made public.  “The EB-5 program was created to benefit American
communities through investment and job creation, and with a
fragile economy, the program has been a tool that could increase
economic activity,” Grassley said in a statement. “But when
whistle-blowers come forward with documents and allegations of
political favoritism and national security concerns, Congress
needs to take another look at the program and ask questions with
a new sense of urgency.”  McAuliffe, who in an Aug. 3 statement said he was unaware
of the SEC inquiry, has more than $250,000 invested in the
company, according to a financial-disclosure  form  he filed as a
gubernatorial candidate.  Startup Troubles  “Like every startup during the recession,” Josh Schwerin,
a McAuliffe spokesman, said in an e-mail, “the company faced
headwinds: Manufacturing isn’t easy, and manufacturing a new
kind of car is even harder.”  The foreign investor visas have powerful allies in
Congress, including Senator Patrick Leahy, a  Vermont  Democrat
who heads the Judiciary Committee. Vermont has made use of the
program to help build two ski resorts, steering the money
through a state-run broker. In a May Senate hearing, he
highlighted the program as an “investment in America, the power
of immigration to make our economy stronger.”  The program’s detractors say an examination of it is long
overdue.  “I’m not surprised the SEC is investigating GreenTech
because I’m not surprised the SEC would investigate any EB-5
project,” said David North, a fellow at the Center for
Immigration Studies, a Washington group that favors reducing the
number of immigrants in the U.S. “It’s inherently a program
that deals with the second- and third-rate investments -- just
the sort of thing that would naturally attract the attention of
the SEC.”  Visa Origins  The visas were created decades ago during a recession.
Grappling with an even worse economic collapse, President  Barack Obama ’s administration sought to make more use of them to spur
growth and job creation when cash-strapped American investors
were on the sidelines.  Its initial champion was Alan Simpson, a now-retired
Republican senator from  Wyoming , who demanded that 10,000
investor visas be included in the 1990 revision of immigration
laws, according to an Associated Press article at the time. Dale Bumpers, a Democratic senator from  Arkansas , unsuccessfully
tried to defeat the visa provision, calling it “a toll road”
into the country.  The immigration law went into effect on Oct. 1, 1991. In
the course of the next two decades, Congress tweaked the program
several times, generally with an aim of making the visas easier
to get rather than increasing scrutiny of the jobs claims
associated with them.  Regional Centers  In broad strokes, the program works like this: Companies
seeking to finance projects with foreign cash typically are
required to work with a “regional center.” Those centers help
match foreign investors with development projects and then
prepare paperwork to forward to the federal government for visa
approval. Sometimes these centers are run by government
entities, as in Vermont. Other times, as in the case of
GreenTech and the Gulf Coast Funds Management regional center,
which is Rodham’s employer, they are set up by the project
itself and run privately.  Once a commitment of $500,000 is made to a project, the
investors -- and their spouses and children -- qualify for a
two-year green card after undergoing homeland security checks
and proving they haven’t obtained their money illegally.  After two years, the investor -- usually working with the
regional center -- can petition the government to remove the
conditional status, becoming a permanent resident. At that
point, the Citizenship and Immigration Services, a DHS agency,
must certify that 10  jobs  have been created or saved.  Job Creation  The Association to Invest in USA, a trade group for
regional centers, says in an economic-impact report provided to
Bloomberg that “spending associated with EB-5 investors
contributed $2.65 billion to the U.S. gross domestic product and
supported over 33,000 jobs during 2010-2011.”  More than half of those jobs are “indirect” or
“induced,” meaning the projects aren’t directly employing
them. Critics say those fluid definitions for job creation,
approved in 2003 by Congress, make it easier for each project to
reach its 10-jobs-per-investor quota.  The program drew 6,106 foreign investor applicants in
fiscal year 2012, eight times as many as the year before the
recession began, 2007, according to Citizenship and Immigration
Services data. In 2007, there were about two dozen regional
centers to help process these applicants; that  list  has grown to
more than 300 across the country.  GreenTech Founding  Among the companies counted in that surge of growth was
GreenTech, which was formed in the aftermath of a legal dispute
between two Chinese businessmen looking to break into the green-car market by attracting foreign investors through the EB-5
program.  McAuliffe joined Xiaolin “Charles” Wang as a co-founder
in late 2009. Within a year, the former head of the Democratic
National Committee was showing off the company’s Day-Glo orange
golf-cart-sized MyCar to Bill Clinton and a flock of reporters
and photographers at the former president’s annual  Clinton
Global Initiative  meeting in New York.  To fund the project, McAuliffe worked with Rodham. Gulf
Coast, which lists on its website Rodham as chief executive
officer and president, serves as GreenTech’s regional center.
Schwerin said McAuliffe recommended Rodham for the job and Gulf
Coast made its own hiring decision.  Phone calls and e-mails to GreenTech and Gulf Coast, in
Mississippi and in McLean, Virginia, where the two companies are
based, weren’t returned.  MyCars Promises  McAuliffe, speaking at the Clinton Global Initiative in
September 2010, pledged to make the first 100,000 MyCars
available to consumers for $10,000 apiece. He also said as many
as 5,000 workers would be hired to produce the vehicles, which
reach a top speed of 45 miles per hour and are intended for
neighborhood use.  Meanwhile, Rodham pursued foreign investor funding,
documents shared by Grassley’s office show. McAuliffe played no
role in recruiting foreign investors, Schwerin said. In 2011,
there were at least 64 GreenTech investor applicants awaiting
approval by immigration officials, internal agency e-mails show.  In early 2012, after getting referrals of possible fraud
from immigration authorities, the SEC created an informal
working group to investigate companies that might be luring
foreign investors into fraudulent investment schemes, according
to a person with direct knowledge of the complaints who asked
not to be named because the matter isn’t public.  Fraud Tips  Most of the companies using the EB-5 program aren’t
registered with the SEC, so the agency has relied on immigration
authorities to flag cases of possible securities fraud, the
person said.  GreenTech and Gulf Coast received subpoenas from
investigators seeking a range of documents and bank records. The
SEC raised concern about a GreenTech promissory note posted
online that appeared to guarantee investors’ principal,
according to the documents posted online by Grassley. Pledging
to return investors’ money if their visa application is denied
isn’t consistent with one of the EB-5 program’s requirements:
Project backers must bear some risk.  The note says GreenTech would invest the person’s $500,000
for a period of five years once the immigration petition has
been approved. Alternatively, the note says, GreenTech
“promises to purchase back” the $500,000 in stock bought by
the investor if the company fails to go public in five years.  Favored Treatment  In addition to the SEC inquiry, Grassley has raised
questions about whether Alejandro Mayorkas, director of
Citizenship and Immigration Services, gave preferential
treatment to McAuliffe and Rodham.  “We absolutely gave special treatment to GreenTech at the
directive of D1,” an unnamed immigration agency employee wrote
in an e-mail Grassley released. The e-mail said “D1,” which
Grassley said is a reference to Mayorkas, “was working
directly” with an attorney for Gulf Coast.  Mayorkas, a nominee to become deputy director of Homeland
Security, said in a Senate hearing last month that GreenTech was
treated no differently than any other EB-5 project.  In general, Mayorkas said the “EB-5 program is indeed
controversial, and it is extraordinarily complex.” He said he
added economists and business analysts to the immigration agency
to help vet the projects and the jobs claims they ultimately
submitted to remove visa conditions.  From the inception of the program through the end of the
last fiscal year, 23,599 investors have asked for green cards.
The government gave conditional approval to about half of them,
and just 4,843 have been granted permanent residency, according
to a document provided to Bloomberg by the Citizenship and
Immigration Services agency.  Economic Impact  Based on those numbers, the agency calculates that the
program created at least 49,000 jobs over the years and pumped
at least $6.8 billion in foreign capital into the country.  A GreenTech press release last week reported the company
employs more than 80 workers and is still building its main
production plant in Tunica,  Mississippi . The company has a
smaller facility in nearby Horn Lake.  Marshall Molen, a professor of vehicle design at
Mississippi State University, said he’d toured the Horn Lake
site several months ago and spotted a handful of employees and
“maybe two” MyCar vehicles being assembled.  “Are they alive?” the professor asked when a reporter
called with questions about GreenTech. “I haven’t heard anyone
out here mention them in quite some time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  