-- Shanghai Finds Waterways ‘Severely Polluted’ After Floating Pigs
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-09T08:54:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/shanghai-finds-waterways-severely-polluted-after-floating-pigs.html
A Shanghai government report found
more than half of the city’s rivers and lakes are “severely
polluted,” boosting concerns about water quality months after
thousands of dead pigs were found floating in its streams.  About 53 percent of surface water tested was given the
worst of five levels of water quality, while only 3.4 percent
was deemed top grade or “unpolluted,” according to the report,
citing a  census  conducted by the Shanghai Water Authority and
Shanghai Bureau of Statistics.  Toxic lakes and water scarcity are putting pressure on the
government as anger over pollution has replaced land grabs as
the primary cause of social unrest.  China ’s leaders have said
they are willing to tolerate slower economic growth to improve
the quality of development and won’t sacrifice the environment.  In March, authorities found more than 10,000 hog carcasses
floating in the Huangpu River in March, likely dumped by farmers
wanting to avoid disposal fees. The mouth of the Yangtze’s water
is the best of the city’s main reservoir, where its 23 million
residents source 70 percent of their water, the Shanghai Daily
 reported . The Huangpu serves as a reserve water resource, the
newspaper said.  China plans to invest 2 trillion  yuan  ($327 billion) to
treat polluted water, the official Xinhua News Agency cited the
National Development and Reform Commission as saying last month.  Beijing Originwater Technology Co. (300070) , a water purification
company, has jumped 70 percent this year in Shenzhen, compared
with an 11 percent drop for the Shenzhen Stock Exchange
Component Index.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jack Gao in Shanghai at 
 ygao40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gregory Turk at 
 gturk2@bloomberg.net  