-- Slim Redoubles Europe Push After Crackdown at Home Erodes Wealth
-- B y   M a d e l i n e   M c M a h o n ,   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2013-08-09T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/slim-redoubles-europe-push-after-crackdown-at-home-erodes-wealth.html
Carlos Slim , whose net worth has
shrunk by more than $8 billion this year amid a regulatory
crackdown in  Mexico , is seeking better returns in  Europe .  Slim’s wireless carrier,  America Movil SAB (AMXL) ,  announced plans 
yesterday to buy the rest of  Royal KPN NV (KPN) , a Dutch phone company
in which he already owns a 30 percent stake. The 7.2 billion-euro ($9.6 billion) transaction would mean doubling down on a
stock that has lost 43 percent of its value over the past year.
Slim also owns a stake in the slumping  Telekom Austria AG. (TKA)   The move demonstrates that Slim wants to have staying power
in Europe, helping insulate his empire from regulatory pressure
and slowing growth in its home country of Mexico. It also may
undermine  Telefonica SA (TEF) , his biggest rival in Europe, which is
seeking to buy KPN’s German unit E-Plus in a separate deal.  “Europe might be the next area of his exploration,” said
Walt Piecyk, an analyst at BTIG LLC in  New York . “He already
has stakes in KPN and  Telekom Austria , so maybe he’s past his
learning stage and ready to move onto a more acquisitive
stage.”  America Movil shares have lost 11 percent this year, hurt
by efforts to rein in the company’s dominance in Mexico. New
legislation creates an agency with the power to regulate
competition in the telecommunications industry and force
companies to divest assets. America Movil has about 70 percent
of mobile-phone subscribers in the country and 80 percent of
landlines.  Losing Status  The stock slide has affected the personal fortune of Slim,
73, who lost the title of world’s richest person in May. His net
worth has fallen to $67.1 billion, according to the Bloomberg
Billionaires ranking. Microsoft Corp. co-founder  Bill Gates 
retook the top spot with a fortune of $73 billion.  The European opportunity is a mixed blessing for Slim, said
James Moorman, an S&P Capital IQ analyst in New York. Acquiring
the entirety of KPN would give him more influence over the
struggling company and potentially extract a better offer from
Telefonica in the E-Plus deal, he said.  Still, it means shifting away from a region that made Slim
rich and threatens to increase the company’s debt load. In
addition to its Mexican business, America Movil has operations
in  Brazil ,  Colombia  and the rest of Latin America.  America Movil shares fell 5.6 percent to 13.3 pesos
yesterday in the wake of the announcement.  Moving Away  “I don’t think this is the best use of their cash, given
KPN hasn’t done well and most of their network’s in  Latin
America ,” Moorman said. “It’s moving away from where they’ve
been successful.”  America Movil will bid 2.40 euros a share in cash for the
70 percent in KPN that it doesn’t already own. That’s 20 percent
more than its close on Aug. 8. The offer, to be made official
next month, is subject to America Movil winning a stake of more
than 50 percent.  The sale requires approval from shareholders of KPN, which
said yesterday it plans to convene a meeting in the coming
weeks. The move followed KPN’s agreement to sell E-Plus, its
largest business, to  Spain ’s Telefonica. America Movil said
yesterday it hasn’t decided if it will support the 8.1 billion-euro E-Plus transaction.  “This move, and the fact that Slim hasn’t made a decision
over Telefonica’s bid for E-Plus, suggests that the billionaire
will seek a sweetened offer from the Spanish company,” said
Andres Bolumburu, an analyst at Banco de Sabadell.  High Multiple  Under the July 23 agreement with Telefonica, KPN would get
5 billion euros in cash and a 17.6 percent in the entity created
from the combination of E-Plus and Telefonica Deutschland
Holding AG, the Spanish carrier’s unit operating under the O2
brand. The enlarged German operator would surpass Deutsche
Telekom AG and Vodafone Group Plc in customer numbers. The
transaction requires antitrust approval because it would cut the
number of network operators in  Germany  to three from four.  Marisa Navas, a spokeswoman for Madrid-based Telefonica,
said yesterday that Telefonica Deutschland’s offer for E-Plus is
final. Stefan Simons, a spokesman at KPN, said the company is
studying  America Movil ’s proposed bid.  Slim is pouring more money into an investment he has so far
made losses on. America Movil spent about $4 billion increasing
its stake in KPN last year, after bidding 8 euros a share. The
shares closed yesterday at 2.32 euros.  Board Meeting  America Movil said it had informed KPN representatives of
the latest offer and is seeking to meet with the board to
discuss cooperation. It will make the official bid in September,
once an offer memorandum has been approved by Dutch financial-markets authorities.  To buy KPN outright, America Movil would need to cancel a
share buyback and obtain $4 billion of debt financing, Sanford
C. Bernstein & Co. analysts said in a note last month.  America Movil may also need to deal with another hurdle. An
independent foundation has the responsibility for defending KPN
“from influences that may threaten the continuity, independence
and identity” of the company, according to KPN’s filings. If
the foundation’s board sees a threat, it may invoke an option to
acquire from KPN Class B preference stock, which carries  voting
rights .  Peter Wakkie, a member of the foundation’s board, said in
an e-mail that he didn’t want to comment on the latest
developments.  Slim’s company said the deal is aimed at intensifying the
synergies with KPN, helping support the company’s plans in “a
rapidly changing environment in Europe.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Crayton Harrison in New York at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net ;
Madeline McMahon in New York at 
 mmcmahon26@bloomberg.net ;
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  