-- Slowing Czech Inflation Bolsters Case for Koruna Sales
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-08-09T09:07:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/slowing-czech-inflation-bolsters-case-for-koruna-sales.html
Czech inflation unexpectedly slowed
in July on food  prices (CZCPMOM) , bolstering arguments for koruna sales
and weakening the stance of central bankers opposed to starting
the first interventions in a more than a decade.  The koruna weakened after data showed  consumer prices  rose
1.4 percent from a year earlier, after a 1.6 percent increase in
June, the Czech Statistics Office said in a statement today. It
was below the 1.6 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg  survey 
of 15 analysts and lower than the central bank’s 1.7 percent
forecast. Prices fell 0.2 percent from a month earlier.  After three rate cuts last year exhausted room for
traditional  monetary easing , inflation is below the Ceska
Narodni Banka’s target. With the country suffering a record
recession, prospects are increasing for the first currency
interventions since 2002. Rate setters are split over whether to
start koruna sales now or wait for deflation risks to appear.  “In the context of weak numbers of domestic economic
activity, today’s data support the advocates of currency
interventions to weaken the koruna,” Patrik Rozumbersky, an
analyst at the Prague-based unit of  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , said by e-mail today. “The probability of their happening has
increased.”  The koruna depreciated 0.3 percent to 25.923 to the euro as
of 9:38 a.m. in Prague today. It has lost 5.3 percent since
Sept. 17, the day before central bank Governor Miroslav Singer
first signaled the bank may sell the currency.  Untested Ground  The central bank is on untested ground with rates at zero,
inflation running below target, and a recession that undercut
the $196 billion economy in the six consecutive quarters through
March. The koruna has moved to the center of policy
deliberations because depreciation would help boost the
competitiveness of exports and make imports more expensive.  The central bank rejected a motion on Aug. 1 to start
koruna sales because several policy makers didn’t see the risk
of deflation, minutes of its last monetary meeting showed.  While most board members agreed that the probability of
starting the interventions has increased, some argued doing so
may destabilize the economy, according to the minutes published
on the bank’s website today.  “Several of the board members repeatedly spoke in favor of
immediately commencing foreign-exchange interventions,” the
bank said in the minutes. “However, it was noted several times
that given the uncertainty about the economic consequences of
foreign exchange interventions, it was appropriate to wait for a
potential greater accumulation of anti-inflationary pressures or
for the risk of deflation.”  Mixed Signals  The economy is sending mixed signals that are clouding the
outlook, according to the minutes.  Retail sales  and industrial
 output  fell more than analysts estimated in June. The foreign
trade  surplus  widened as exports fell less than imports,
statistics office data showed.  The board, which left the benchmark  interest rate  unchanged
at 0.05 percent for a sixth meeting on Aug. 1, also voted on
starting the interventions for the first time. It didn’t publish
the breakdown of the vote, which was unsuccessful.  While July inflation may serve as an argument to policy
makers who want to launch interventions, “the impact of single
data should not be overestimated and more information about
developments in both the Czech and global economy will come
before the central bank board convenes next time in late
September,” Radomir Jac, the chief analyst at Generali PPF
Asset Management AS, said in a note to clients today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in  Prague  at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  