-- SSAB Jumps After China Data Lifts Steel Prices: Stockholm Mover
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2013-08-09T11:20:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/ssab-jumps-after-china-data-lifts-steel-prices-stockholm-mover.html
SSAB AB (SSABA) , a Swedish steel
manufacturer, rose the most in almost a year in Stockholm
trading after  China  reported stronger than expected industrial
production figures, sending steel prices higher.  The  shares  rose as much as 5.9 percent to 46.21 kronor,
their steepest intraday gain since Sept. 14 last year. The stock
added 3.4 percent to 45.13 kronor at 12:36 a.m. local time,
valuing SSAB at 14.1 billion kronor ($2.17 billion).  China’s industrial output rose more than estimated in July,
with factory production increasing 9.7 percent from a year
earlier, adding to signs the Chinese economy is stabilizing
after unexpectedly strong trade figures yesterday. China’s
exports rose 5.1 percent in July from a year earlier, while
imports gained 10.9 percent, the customs administration said
yesterday. SSAB generated 6.7 percent of its sales in  Asia  last
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Steel reinforcement-bar futures in  Shanghai  advanced for an
eighth day to cap the biggest weekly gain in five as  iron ore 
rallied. Rebar for January delivery on the Shanghai Futures
Exchange rose 0.3 percent to 3,755  yuan  ($614) a metric ton, the
highest close for a most-active contract since April 12.  Separately, SSAB said today that it plans to raise its
stake in a new Dutch company formed after Hardox Wearparts
Center Geha Beheer BV buys Laverman Holding BV. SSAB, which
currently holds a minority stake in Geha, is increasing its
holding in the new company to 51 percent, the company said.  Geha-Laverman will focus primarily on demolition, waste
management, scrap, sand and glass recycling, bulk materials
handling, infrastructure and quarrying and have 46 employees.  “By combining Geha’s know-how regarding Hardox wearparts
and Laverman’s focus on castings, a company is being formed that
will possess broad expertise and a complete customer offering,”
Chris Van Beurden, vice president of Wear Services EMEA at SSAB,
said in today’s statement. “I see great opportunities for SSAB
to further strengthen its presence in the region through an
increased stake in the new company.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  