-- Stryker, Samsung, Arcadia Group: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-08-09T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/stryker-samsung-arcadia-group-intellectual-property.html
Zimmer Holdings Inc. (ZMH) , which lost a
February trial against Stryker Corp. over a surgical device, was
told to pay more than $228 million -- three times the jury award
plus other costs -- and stop selling its products.  The increase in the jury award was appropriate because
Zimmer intentionally infringed Stryker patents to build its
business for pulsed lavage, a technique that removes damaged
tissue and cleans bones during joint-replacement surgery, U.S.
District Judge Robert Jonker said in an order issued Aug. 7. He
also ordered Zimmer to stop selling its Pulsavac Plus device.  A federal jury in  Grand Rapids ,  Michigan , in February sided
with Stryker and awarded $70 million in damages. The dispute is
over devices that use pulsing liquid, such as water or saline
solution, to loosen debris from a surgical site and remove it by
suction.  “A $70 million verdict sounds large in the abstract, but
in context, it may not be enough, without enhancement, to deter
infringing conduct,” Jonker wrote in his opinion. Tripling the
award is appropriate “given the one-sidedness of the case and
the flagrancy and scope of Zimmer’s infringement.”  The $228 million figure is more than the second-quarter
profit for either company. Kalamazoo, Michigan-based Stryker
reported $213 million in net income on sales of $2.2 billion.
Zimmer, based in Warsaw,  Indiana , reported $152 million net
income on $1.17 billion in sales.  The judge awarded $210 million after tripling the $70
million jury award, then added another $7 million for infringing
sales that weren’t covered by the verdict, $11.2 million for
interest, as well as attorney’s fees, said Stryker lawyer Greg
Vogler of McAndrews Held & Malloy in  Chicago .  “Zimmer chose a high-risk/high-reward strategy of
competing immediately and aggressively in the pulsed lavage
market and opted to worry about the potential legal consequences
later,” the judge said.  Officials with Zimmer didn’t immediately return messages
seeking comment.  The case is  Stryker Corp. (SYK)  v. Zimmer Inc., 10-cv-01223, U.S.
District Court, Western District of Michigan (Grand Rapids).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Samsung Files Application for Trademark for Wearable Phone  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , which is locked in a battle with
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  for supremacy in the mobile phone market, is planning
a wearable phone, based on a recent trademark filing.  The South Korean-based company filed an application to
register “Samsung Galaxy Gear” as a trademark, according to
the database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.  According to the application, which was filed July 29,
Samsung plans to use the mark for a “wearable digital
electronic devices in the form of a wristwatch, wrist band or
bangle capable of providing access to the Internet and for
sending and receiving phone calls, electronic mails and
messages.”  The mark would also be used with smart phones, tablet
devices and portable computers, Samsung said in the application.  Rival Apple has filed applications in multiple countries to
register “iWatch” for a comparable wearable device. In the
U.S., the Cupertino, California-based company may have
difficulty, as a company in Fresno, California, filed an
application in 2012 to use the mark with mobile phones.  Another contender is  Qualcomm Inc., (QCOM)  the San Diego-based
maker of digital wireless communications equipment, which filed
an application with the patent office June 26 to register
“Qualcomm TOQ” as a trademark.  The company said in its application that it will use the
mark with “personal communication hub in the form of a
wristwatch; portable electronic devices for transmitting and
reviewing text, data, image, and audio files; hands-free devices
for mobile phones; battery chargers.”  Topshop’s Perth Opening Hits Opposition From Local Retailer  Arcadia Group PLC’s Topshop unit, which operates stores in
Melbourne and Sydney, has run into opposition in its attempt to
open a store in Perth,  Australia , because of a trademark
conflict,  Fairfax Media Ltd. (FXJ) ’s WAToday  reported .  Robyn Swayn, owner of a women’s retail shop that has been
operating in Perth for 36 years as Topshop Fashions, told
WAToday she’s trying to block the U.K. company’s Australian
trademark application.  She said that while she doesn’t want to stop the opening of
a Perth outlet by the fashion chain, she wants what she says is
adequate compensation, according to WAToday.  Swayn turned down an earlier offer from Topshop as
insufficient to cover the cost of changing her signs,
advertising to let customers know about the name change, and the
compensating her for the goodwill associated with the business,
WAToday reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Artist Loses Copyright Appeal Against Green Day Over Backdrop  The rock band  Green Day  prevailed in a copyright suit
brought by an artist who claimed his work was infringed in a
video backdrop the group used.  Dereck Seltzer, who created his “Scream Icon” drawing in
2003, filed suit in federal court in  Los Angeles  in 2010,
claiming a backdrop used behind Green Day in its 2009 concert
tour contained an unauthorized copy of the image.  After the trial court found that the band’s use of the
image fell within U.S. copyright law’s “fair use” provision,
the artist filed an appeal with the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  San
Francisco .  In an Aug. 7 opinion, the appeals court affirmed the lower-court ruling on the infringement issue and said the backdrop
used Seltzer’s content in a way that transformed it enough so
that it was a new work.  The court noted that the image became
“only a component of what is essentially a street-art focused
music video about religion and especially about Christianity.”  Seltzer’s work didn’t address religion, the court said, and
the focus of the total performance on religion conveyed “new
information, new aesthetics, new insights and understandings”
that were distinct from the original piece.  Green Day ’s attorney fee award was overturned. The appeals
court said the lower court erred in finding that the artist
acted unreasonably in bringing the suit and awarding the band
attorney fees.  The case is Seltzer v. Green Day Inc., 11-56573, U.S. Court
of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. The lower court case is Dereck
Seltzer v. Green Day Inc., 2:10-cv-02103-PSG-PLA, U.S. District
Court, Central District of California (Los Angeles).  Nigerian Company Says It Registered Copyright for RFID Program  Haynes-Worth International Ltd., a technology company based
in Lagos,  Nigeria , is claiming the company holds the copyright
to a Radio Frequency Identification system used in the oil
industry, All Africa Global Media reported.  Joseph Afenikhena Imonikhe said in a statement that his
company had registered the copyright with the Nigerian Copyright
Commission on July 18, according to the publication.  The RFID product is used to secure pipelines and their
maintenance, with “the most minimal human efforts,” according
to All Africa Global Media.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 