-- Suarez is Going Nowhere, Liverpool Owner Says: Roundup
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-08-09T10:17:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/suarez-is-going-nowhere-liverpool-owner-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  No Sale  Liverpool striker  Luis Suarez will not be sold to Arsenal
or anyone else, club owner John Henry told U.K. media including
the  Guardian .  Henry described the idea of the Uruguayan leaving Anfield
for Arsenal following a bid of 40,000,001 pounds ($62 million)
from the Gunners as “ludicrous.”  “We’re not in Europe this year and have not been in the
Champions League for a while,” Henry said. “To sell to a rival
for those positions, or one of them, would be ludicrous.
Liverpool needs to be playing in Europe. It needs to be playing
in the Champions League. That’s what Liverpool football club is
about.”  Henry added the club also won’t have enough time to find
a suitable replacement should Suarez go so late in the summer
transfer window.  Arsenal may boost its bid for Suarez to 51 million pounds,
the  Daily Star  reported.  Final Offer  Manchester United may make a final offer of 40 million
pounds for Barcelona’s Cesc Fabregas after two previous bids
were turned down, the  Daily Star  reported. Fabregas yesterday
said he was happy at Barcelona and that winning with the club
was a childhood dream.  Everton Rejection  Everton will reject any formal offers from Manchester
United for Marouane Fellaini and Leighton Baines, the  Guardian 
reported.  New United manager David Moyes, a former Everton manager,
is considering making a 30 million pound bid for the pair.  Brazilian Wonder Kid  Brazilian teenager Victor Andrade, who plays for Santos,
has sparked the interest of Premier League clubs Chelsea,
Arsenal and Manchester City, the  Daily Express  said.  Andrade, who first played for Santos when he was 16 years
old and has been dubbed the “new Neymar” in  Brazil , hasn’t
signed a new contract yet with Santos.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  