-- Swiss Re CFO Sees Catastrophe Bonds Cutting Prices
-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2013-08-09T09:28:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/swiss-re-cfo-sees-catastrophe-bonds-cutting-prices.html
Swiss Re Ltd. (SREN)  Chief Financial Officer
George Quinn said increasing sales of catastrophe bonds will put
pressure on reinsurance contract prices as they compete for
disaster coverage.  “While the market is supplied with capital in this way, it
will put pressure on prices,” Quinn said in an interview in
Zurich yesterday. “The returns people could achieve over the
last several years in the natural catastrophe market, especially
in the U.S., have been very attractive.”  There were 13 catastrophe bond sales in the second quarter,
bringing first-half issuance to a six-year high of almost $4
billion, reinsurance broker Aon Benfield said on July 31.
Insurers and reinsurers sell catastrophe bonds to help cover
their most extreme risks, with the proceeds set aside and paid
out in the event of a disaster.  Swiss Re, the world’s second-biggest reinsurer, reported a
5 percent drop in prices for reinsurance contracts renewed in
July, a decline driven by the U.S. natural catastrophe business
“where the supply of alternative capital is most significant,”
the company said yesterday. Rates may remain under pressure this
year as more capital is invested in catastrophe bonds, broker
Guy Carpenter & Co. said in a report last month.  “Over time, we will see a growth in supply of all forms of
capital to the natural catastrophe market, because it simply
needs it,” Quinn said.  While buyers risk forfeiting their investment if
catastrophe bonds are triggered before they mature, they get a
relatively high interest margin for holding the securities.  Munich Re (MUV2)  said prices declined about 0.9 percent from a
year earlier when the world’s biggest reinsurer renewed about 13
percent of its property-casualty business on July 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  