-- Swiss Shop Owner Denies Racist Oprah Slur Over $38,000 Bag
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r   a n d   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2013-08-09T16:35:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/swiss-shop-owner-denies-racist-oprah-slur-over-38-000-handbag.html
Oprah Winfrey  wasn’t the victim of
racism when she asked to be shown a 35,000 Swiss franc ($38,000)
crocodile handbag in Zurich last month, according to the owner
of the boutique where the alleged slur took place.  Winfrey said in a television interview with  Larry King  that
one example of racism she had encountered was when a shop
assistant in Zurich refused to get her a bag because it was
“too expensive.” Winfrey, the billionaire talk-show host and
producer, was in the Swiss city to attend Tina Turner’s wedding.  “This has got nothing to with racism at all,” Trudie
Goetz, owner of the Trois Pommes chain, said in a telephone
interview from Zurich today. “It was a misunderstanding and a
communication problem. The client is king here, and we try to
fulfill all wishes.”  The shop assistant, an Italian woman who doesn’t speak good
English, described the black crocodile-skin bag created for
 Jennifer Aniston  and told Winfrey there were less expensive
versions in ostrich leather and suede, Goetz said. The incident
was the result of a language problem, she said.  “I wanted to create a ‘Pretty Woman’ moment and go and
come back and buy everything and say ‘big mistake,’ but then I
thought she would get a commission, so I said let’s not do
that,” Winfrey told King on internet channel ora.tv, referring
to the 1990 movie starring  Julia Roberts .  Expressing Regret  Christian Trottmann, a spokesman for Zurich Tourism, said
that while his organization regrets the incident, his office
hasn’t made a formal apology to Winfrey. Zurich Tourism is
considering what measures to take, including possibly inviting
Winfrey for a tour of the city, he said.  “We are more regretting than apologizing,” Trottmann
said. “We strive to make sure Zurich is always presented in a
positive light, and this kind of incident is obviously not very
helpful.”  Jessica Boyer, a communications manager at the Oprah
Winfrey Network, wasn’t immediately available for a comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Geneva at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net 
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dylan Griffiths in Geneva at 
 dgriffiths1@bloomberg.net  