-- U.K. Stocks Advance on China Data, Trimming Weekly Drop
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2013-08-09T16:11:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/u-k-stocks-advance-on-china-data-trimming-weekly-drop.html
U.K. stocks  advanced for a second
day, paring the benchmark  FTSE 100 (UKX)  Index’s weekly decline, after
a report showed China’s industrial output rose more than
estimated in July.  Randgold Resources Ltd. (RRS)  led commodity producers higher amid
signs of growing demand from the world’s second-biggest economy.
 BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and Rio Tinto Group, the world’s largest
mining companies, rallied more than 3 percent.  Standard Life Plc (SL/) 
declined 3.3 percent as analysts raised concern about the
insurer’s earnings.  The FTSE 100 gained 53.71 points, or 0.8 percent, to
6,583.39 at the close in London, paring the retreat this week to
1 percent. The gauge has  rallied 9.2 percent  from a low on June
24 as the U.S. Federal Reserve said it remains flexible on the
pace of bond buying and the  European Central Bank  and the  Bank
of England  signaled  interest rates  will remain low for an
extended period. The broader FTSE All-Share Index added 0.7
percent today, while Ireland’s  ISEQ Index (ISEQ)  increased 0.9 percent.  “If the recent Chinese data can be moved into their GDP,
confidence can come back,” Justin Harris, head of trading at
Guardian Stockbrokers in London, said in a phone interview.
“Mining stocks’ performance has been very weak this year and we
expect them to gather pace into September. We are buying any
weakness we get.”  China’s  factory production  increased 9.7 percent in July
from a year earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said
today in Beijing. Retail sales advanced 13.2 percent while
fixed-asset investment excluding rural households grew 20.1
percent in the first seven months of the year. Consumer prices
rose 2.7 percent last month.  ‘Data Surprises’  “It feels likes it has been a long time since markets have
received a boost from Chinese data surprises,”  Jim Reid , a
strategist at Deutsche Bank AG in London, wrote in a note. “The
Chinese data flow has shown some tentative signs of stabilizing
in the last month or so.”  China’s exports and imports rebounded by more than
estimated last month, the General Administration of Customs said
yesterday. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  dropped 13 percent in
the first half of the year on concern the Asian economy was
slowing faster than expected. China is the world’s largest
consumer of metals.  The FTSE All-Share Mining Index rose 3 percent. Randgold, a
producer of the metal in  Africa , advanced 6.8 percent to 4,722
pence.  Fresnillo Plc (FRES) , which operates silver and gold mines in
Mexico, rallied 8.2 percent to 1,035 pence.  BHP Billiton  climbed 3.4 percent to 1,963.5 pence and Rio
Tinto surged 5 percent to 3,167.5 pence. The  Standard & Poor’s
GSCI Index (SPGSCI)  of raw materials rose 0.9 percent at 5:07 p.m. in
London, after five sessions of losses.  European Miners  The Stoxx 600 Basic Resource Index, a gauge of mining
shares in Europe, has fallen 15 percent this year, the worst
performance among 19 industries in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Standard Life, Scotland’s biggest insurer, dropped 3.3
percent to 365 pence. The shares fell 2.6 percent yesterday
after the company reported first-half earnings.  “We are encouraged by the fact that management is cutting
costs, but we question whether the company can continue to do
this faster than the gross revenue margin decline we expect due
to increased transparency and competition in the industry,” a
team of analysts at Societe Generale SA wrote in a report today.  The number of shares trading hands on FTSE 100-listed
companies was in line with the average of the past 30 days, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in  London  at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  