-- U.K. Unemployment Seen Unchanged as BOE Puts Jobs in Spotlight
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-08-09T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/u-k-unemployment-seen-unchanged-as-boe-puts-jobs-in-spotlight.html
U.K. unemployment  was probably
unchanged in the second quarter in the first release of jobless
data since Bank of England Governor  Mark Carney  put it at the
center of a plan to guide investors on interest-rate policy.  The  unemployment rate  based on an International Labour
Organization measure was 7.8 percent, according to the  median  of
30 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. Carney said this week
the BOE plans to keep its  benchmark rate  at 0.5 percent until
the jobless rate falls to 7 percent, something it doesn’t
forecast will happen before the fourth quarter of 2016.  “Post-BOE guidance, this release takes on an unprecedented
level of significance,” said Philip Rush, an economist at
Nomura International Plc in  London . “Perhaps worryingly for the
Monetary Policy Committee, it has good form in being strong.”  The data will be released at the same time as minutes of
the MPC’s Aug. 1 meeting, when officials decided to take the
unprecedented step of providing guidance on policy. The record
will also show how the nine MPC members voted on  interest rates 
and quantitative easing and if any dissented on the introduction
of the new policy strategy.  The  Office for National Statistics  will publish the labor-market report at 9:30 a.m. on Aug. 14. It will also show that
jobless claims fell 15,000 in June, leaving the  claimant count
rate  at 4.4 percent, according to a separate survey.  Inflation Forecast  The BOE guidance has three caveats, including two linked to
 price stability . Data on Aug. 13 will probably show that
 inflation  slowed to 2.8 percent in July from 2.9 percent in
June, according to the median of 35 estimates in a  survey . The
MPC, which has an inflation target of 2 percent, said the
guidance will no longer hold if policy makers decide medium-term
consumer-price gains are likely to breach 2.5 percent or
inflation expectations are no longer well-anchored.  Britain’s economy  is showing signs of strengthening, with
indexes of manufacturing, services and construction all
improving in July. A report yesterday showed the U.K.’s  trade
deficit  narrowed in June and exports rose to a record in the
second quarter.  Economists have cut their forecasts for unemployment
through 2015 as the economy recovers. They see the jobless rate
at 7.7 percent in 2014 and 7.6 percent the following year,
according to Bloomberg’s latest monthly economic survey,
published yesterday. That’s down from a July forecast of 7.8
percent for both years.  “The jobless rate will be center stage in MPC decisions,
carrying a much greater weight than generally perceived until
now,” London-based Citigroup Inc. economists  Michael Saunders 
and Ann O’Kelly said in a note to clients. “The MPC’s statement
focuses monetary policy more on closing the output gap and
cutting unemployment rather than simply aiming for the 2 percent
inflation target.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  