-- U.K. Exports Rising to Record Signal Recovery Progress
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-08-09T10:54:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/u-k-trade-gap-narrows-as-second-quarter-exports-rise-to-record.html
U.K. exports rose to a record in the
second quarter, adding to signs of a broadening recovery in a
week that saw the  Bank of England  say it plans to keep policy
loose to encourage the recovery.  Overseas sales increased increased 4.9 percent to 78.4
billion pounds ($122 billion), the most since the series began
in 1998, the  Office for National Statistics  said today in
London. The deficit on goods trade narrowed to 24.9 billion
pounds from 26.5 billion pounds.  Britain’s economy  is showing signs of strengthening, with
indexes of manufacturing, services and construction all
improving in July. Bank of England Governor  Mark Carney  said
this week the central bank plans to keep its key  interest rate 
at a record low for another three years as the U.K. is at the
“very early stages of the recovery.”  “U.K. trade looks finally to be on a slow path to recovery
after years of stagnation,” Simon Wells and John Zhu,
economists at HSBC Holdings Plc, said in an e-mailed note.
“Higher exports would support the theory than there is demand
for what the U.K. produces, and that it is not just an inventory
build-up.”  The deficit on goods and services narrowed to 5.9 billion
pounds in the three months from 6.1 billion pounds. That’s the
smallest since the fourth quarter of 2011 and suggests net trade
made a contribution to the economy’s 0.6 percent growth in the
second quarter.  EU Exports  The pound was little changed against the dollar after the
report and traded at $1.5533 as of 11:24 a.m.  London  time. The
yield on the 10-year gilt climbed 2 basis points to 2.46
percent.  The growth in goods exports was led by demand outside the
European Union, where sales surged 7.5 percent, exceeding 40
billion pounds for the first time. Exports to the EU increased
2.3 percent, though shipments to Germany dropped 7.9 percent,
widening the U.K.’s trade gap with  Europe ’s largest economy.  The report also showed that foreign sales were led by
intermediate goods, which rose 814 million pounds in the
quarter. Exports of semi-manufactured products and consumer
goods excluding cars also increased.  In  France , data showed industrial production unexpectedly
dropped in June, underscoring the government’s struggle to
revive growth.  Industrial output  fell 1.4 percent from the previous month,
more than any of the predictions made by 22 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. The estimates ranged from a 0.5 percent
decline to a 0.5 percent increase. The median forecast was for a
0.3 percent gain.  The decline contrasted with neighboring  Germany , where
 production  rose 2.4 percent in June. Even Italy, mired in its
worst recession in 30 years, saw a 0.3 percent increase in
production, the second monthly increase in a row.  U.K. ‘Party’  In June, Britain’s deficit on trade in goods fell to 8.1
billion pounds from 8.7 billion pounds in May, the lowest since
July 2012. The services trade surplus widened to 6.5 billion
pounds from 6.1 billion pounds, leaving an overall trade deficit
of 1.5 billion pounds, the smallest since January.  “With activity in the domestic economy developing
increased momentum in recent months, the external sector may now
be joining the party,” said Martin Beck, an economist at
Capital Economics Ltd. in London. “June’s figures, along with a
run of recent positive export surveys, provide a decent
springboard for export growth in the third quarter.”  Carney’s Guidance  As the U.K. recovers, Carney announced this week that the
central bank probably won’t raise its  benchmark rate  from a
record low 0.5 percent until unemployment falls to 7 percent.
Policy makers don’t expect that to occur before the third
quarter of 2016. The introduction of so-called forward guidance
based on an economic threshold comes just a month after Carney
joined the BOE, succeeding King.  In a separate release, the ONS said  construction  fell 0.8
percent in June from May and was up 1.2 percent compared with a
year earlier. That data is based on 2005 prices.  In the second quarter, construction, which accounts for 6.3
percent of the economy, rose 1.4 percent. That’s higher than the
0.9 percent growth estimated in the gross domestic product
report on July 25. The ONS said the revision won’t have any
impact on GDP to one decimal place. Construction added 0.1
percentage point to GDP in the second quarter, according to the
preliminary estimate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  