-- U.S. Reopening 18 Diplomatic Posts, State Department Says
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-08-10T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/u-s-reopening-18-embassies-consulates-state-department-says.html
The State Department will reopen 18
U.S. embassies and consulates tomorrow that were temporarily
closed amid a terrorist threat, while keeping two diplomatic
posts shut over concerns of an attack by extremist groups.  The embassy in Sana’a, Yemen, “will remain closed because
of ongoing concerns about a threat stream indicating the
potential for terrorist attacks emanating from al-Qaeda in the
Arabian Peninsula,” State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki said
yesterday. The U.S. consulate in Lahore,  Pakistan , which was
ordered evacuated on Aug. 8 because of a separate threat, will 
also stay closed.  The U.S. shut down almost two dozen embassies and
consulates from West Africa to South Asia on Aug. 4 and issued a
worldwide travel alert in response to concerns that al-Qaeda’s
Yemen-based branch, known as al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula,
or AQAP, was planning an attack.  There was no immediate explanation of why the 18 embassies
and consulates will be reopened if the threat from the Yemen-based group remains. Most of the closures, which began Aug. 4,
had been extended until today.  “We will continue to evaluate the threats to Sana’a and
Lahore and make subsequent decisions about the reopening of
those facilities based on that information,” Psaki said in the
statement. Most of the Lahore consulate’s staff, except for
emergency personnel, have been evacuated, the State Department
said earlier.  Communications Intercepted  The mission closings across much of the Muslim world were
prompted by the intercept of communications between  Ayman al-Zawahiri , the chief of al-Qaeda, and the head of the
organization’s Yemen branch, Nasir al-Wuhayshi. The State
Department has urged Americans to leave Yemen.  Some U.S. intelligence officials and others say the
relative ease with which U.S. officials intercepted
communications among top al-Qaeda leaders -- especially amid a
worldwide debate about electronic eavesdropping -- may indicate
that the calls were designed as a deliberate distraction, a
publicity stunt or a test of American surveillance capabilities.  Lawmakers had generally endorsed the closures this week.
Senator  Saxby Chambliss  of Georgia, the senior Republican on the
Senate intelligence committee, said the precaution was taken in
response to “chatter” among terrorists that was “reminiscent
of what we saw pre-9/11.”  President  Barack Obama  said regional groups such as al-Qaeda’s Yemen branch pose a threat to American interests, even
as the central al-Qaeda organization based in Pakistan has been
weakened since the May 2011 death of  Osama bin Laden .  ‘Truck Bomb’  “We still have these regional organizations, like AQAP,
that can pose a threat, that can drive potentially a truck bomb
into an embassy wall and kill some people,” Obama said
yesterday at a White House news conference.  “It means that we’ve got to continue to be vigilant and go
after known terrorists who are potentially carrying out” plots,
Obama said.  The threat posed by al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula is
attributable largely to its chief bomb-maker, Ibrahim al-Asiri.  U.S. officials have said the Saudi national designed the
underwear bomb worn by  Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab , who attempted
to blow up a Northwest Airlines plane over  Detroit  on Christmas
Day in 2009. Abdulmutallab was arrested after the bomb
malfunctioned.  Asiri is also considered responsible for attempting to kill
a Saudi deputy minister that year by designing a device that was
implanted inside a suicide bomber’s body cavity. The explosion
killed the bomber; his Saudi target survived.  Drone Strikes  Yemen’s Supreme Security Committee this week released the
names of 25 al-Qaeda militants alleged to be plotting attacks in
the country, including Asiri, the Yemeni defense ministry said
on its website.  One source of tension with the U.S. in both Yemen and
Pakistan is the U.S. use of drones against suspected terrorists.  Obama yesterday again declined to acknowledge the covert
strikes, saying, “I’m not going to discuss specific operations
that have taken place.”  The 18 embassies and consulates that will reopen after
being closed this week are located in  Madagascar ,  United Arab
Emirates , Jordan, Burundi, Egypt,  Saudi Arabia , Djibouti, Qatar,
 Sudan ,  Rwanda ,  Kuwait , Bahrain, Oman, Mauritius and Libya.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  