-- Postal Service Quarterly Loss Narrows to $740 Million
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2013-08-09T20:24:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/u-s-postal-service-third-quarter-loss-narrows-to-740-million.html
Cost cutting and a one-time revenue
windfall helped the U.S.  Postal Service  narrow its loss in the
third quarter to $740 million.  The Postal Service said even with the improved results, it
won’t make a $5.6 billion payment due by Sept. 30 for future
retirees’ health-care costs. It said the results also don’t
lessen the need for Congress to overhaul the system.  “We are encouraged that comprehensive postal reform
legislation has started making its way through the legislative
process in both the House and Senate,” Postmaster General
Patrick Donahoe said in an e-mailed statement. “We continue to
evaluate the current legislation based on whether it enables $20
billion in savings by 2017.”  The loss for the quarter ended June 30 narrowed from $5.2
billion a year earlier as the service consolidated mail
processing plants and delivery routes and boosted revenue
through a one-time $246 million adjustment to deferred revenue
related to the use of pre-stamped envelopes and cards, the
service said today in a  filing  on its website. The service has
said it will lose $6 billion this year and didn’t issue a new
full-year forecast today.  The loss shrunk as mail volume continued to slide, dropping
1.1 percent in the quarter compared with a year earlier.  The fourth quarter is typically the period with the biggest
loss, meaning the service may still lose $6 billion for the full
year, said  Art Sackler , coordinator of the Coalition for a 21st
Century Postal Service, which supports cutting postal costs.
That would compare with a $15.9 billion loss last year.  Modest Improvement  “Given the challenges that confront them, it’s nice to see
even if it’s small, a modest improvement,” Sackler said in an
interview. “But when all is said and done, they’re still losing
a heck of a lot of money.”  The improvement from a year earlier shows the service
shouldn’t cut its offerings, said Fredric Rolando, president of
the National Association of Letter Carriers, which opposes the
agency’s plans to end Saturday mail delivery.  The 2012 results show that the opportunities offered by the
Internet, including delivering goods ordered online, are
offsetting Internet challenges, including more people using
online bill-paying, Rolando said in an e-mailed statement.  “All of the Postal Service red ink for the entire year to
date stems from an external political factor -- the 2006
congressional mandate to pre-fund future retiree health
benefits, which no other entity in the country is required to
do,” Rolando said.  Legislative Reform  The fact that a $740 million loss is an optimistic
improvement underscores the need for legislative reform, Senator
Tom Carper, a sponsor of the Senate postal legislation, said in
an e-mailed statement. Carper, a Delaware Democrat, is chairman
of the House  Homeland Security  and Governmental Affairs
Committee, which oversees the Postal Service.  “These figures certainly make it clear that the only way
to alleviate the Postal Service’s financial challenges is by
passing comprehensive postal reform legislation,” said Carper,
who is co-sponsor of the measure with Senator  Tom Coburn , an
Oklahoma Republican.  The service today reiterated it won’t make the $5.6 billion
payment due this year for future retirees’ health-care costs. It
accounted for $2.1 billion of retiree health benefits expenses
for the quarter. It defaulted last year on $11.1 billion of
those payments.  Cash-Flow Issues  Donahoe has asked Congress to pass legislation relaxing a
retiree prefunding requirement and allowing the service to end
Saturday mail delivery. The House last month debated a bill
sponsored by Representative  Darrell Issa , a California
Republican, in committee while Republican and Democratic
senators introduced a measure they said their chamber should
advance. Congress is on a five-week recess until September.  The loss announced today adds to the $3.1 billion lost in
the first two quarters of the fiscal year.  The service will reach a low point in cash with five days
on hand in mid-October after a workers compensation payment is
due, it said in the filing. In previous years, the service had
said it would reach zero cash on hand at that point in the year.  The service is a government agency that is supposed to be
self-supporting from postage sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  