-- U.S. Mortgage Group Forced to Correct Initiative Stats
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-08-09T20:36:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/u-s-mortgage-group-forced-to-correct-initiative-stats.html
President  Barack Obama ’s
administration significantly overstated statistics from a year-long  mortgage-fraud  initiative, including total number of
victims, their losses suffered and number of individuals
criminally charged, according to an FBI memo.  The  Federal Bureau of Investigation , in the document sent
today, asked members of the administration’s Mortgage Fraud
Working Group to correct and update any public materials related
to the results released in October of a year-long law
enforcement initiative targeting fraud schemes aimed at
vulnerable homeowners.  The FBI restated the number of people criminally charged to
107 from 530. Agencies were asked to correct victims’ total
losses to $95 million from an estimated $1 billion, and the
number of victims found to 17,185 from more than 73,000.  “This targeted approach resulted in the successful filing
of many criminal and civil cases around the country, but
regrettably, the statistics reported in October included cases
that fell outside the specific parameters of the initiative,”
the FBI, which co-chairs the mortgage group, said in the memo.  The corrected statistics come in response to a Bloomberg
News story reporting that some cases cited occurred before the
initiative began in October 2011, including one filed by
prosecutors more than two years before Obama took office.  The results of the nationwide initiative, which included
undercover operations and a law enforcement surge in  California ,
took place were initially presented at a  Justice Department 
press conference that included Attorney General Eric Holder and
Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Shaun Donovan.  The joint law enforcement activity came during the 2012
fiscal year.  Holder’s Comments  Holder said at the time that the results indicated a
“historic, government-wide commitment to eradicating mortgage
fraud and related offenses across the country.”  The Justice Department, after questions were raised about
the initiative, conducted an “extensive review” and found that
the list included criminal defendants charged before the
initiative and in circumstances outside the stated definition of
“distressed homeowner” cases, the memo said  The “Distressed Homeowner Initiative” was a coordinated
effort by federal law enforcement agencies, inspector general
offices, the Justice Department and the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau. It came after the FBI began to recognize a
sharp increase in frauds aimed at struggling homeowners in the
years following the 2008 housing crisis, bureau Associate Deputy
Director Kevin Perkins said at last year’s press conference.  Christopher Allen , an FBI spokesman, declined to comment
beyond the memo.  Data Sources  The information used to compile the results came from an
FBI survey of the agencies in the Financial Fraud Enforcement
Task Force’s Mortgage Fraud Working Group.  Typical schemes involved promises to homeowners that
foreclosures could be prevented by payment of a fee. As part of
the scams, “investors” purchase the mortgage or the titles of
homes are transferred them to accomplices, depriving homeowners
of their property.  “Please be sure to update any online materials posted by
your agencies to reflect these changes,” the FBI told the other
agencies in the memo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Mattingly in  Washington 
at   pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Schoenberg in Washington
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at  skomarow1@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 