-- Venezuela Ogles Chavez’s Hidden Billions as Reserves Sink
-- B y   C o r i n a   P o n s   a n d   N a t h a n   C r o o k s
-- 2013-08-09T16:10:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/venezuela-ogles-chavez-s-hidden-billions-as-reserves-sink.html
Venezuela ’s dollar-denominated  bonds 
are trouncing the returns of the riskiest emerging-market
borrowers as the government moves to gain greater control of $25
billion held at state-run companies.  Notes from  South America ’s largest oil exporter have
 returned  1.63 percent since the government published rules July
29 that require state oil company  Petroleos de Venezuela SA  and
other public institutions to report dollar holdings to the
central bank and obtain authorization to keep them. That
compares with a 0.36 percent  average  gain for speculative-grade
notes from 37 developing nations tracked by JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Venezuela can more than double its reported reserves, which
fell to a nine-year low of $22.9 billion on Aug. 5, if it
chooses to take control of all the dollars held by state
enterprises as of March 31. Increasing its foreign-currency
holdings would bolster Venezuela’s ability to repay $40.5
billion in obligations at a time when its  borrowing costs , at
11.59 percent, are almost double the developing-nation  average ,
according to Bank of America Corp. in  New York .  “If the government would show even half of the dollars
they have in off-budget funds in reserves, the market would be
satisfied,”  Francisco Rodriguez , senior Andean economist at
Bank of America, who rates Venezuela’s bonds buy, said in a
telephone interview from New York. “There is a lot of
skepticism outside of the country about how much Venezuela holds
in its off-budget funds.”  Hard Currency  An official at the  Finance Ministry , who asked not to be
identified because he isn’t allowed to speak publicly, declined
to comment on whether the government intends to add dollars held
at state institutions to reserves. The central bank didn’t
respond to e-mailed questions.  Barclays Plc affirmed its overweight call on Venezuelan
dollar debt July 30, citing the government measure on hard
currency and the possibility it will be used to bolster
 reserves . Then President  Hugo Chavez , who died of cancer in
March, reduced central bank control over public entities’ cash
holdings and shifted liquid assets from the bank to off-budget
institutions that lack transparency, including the Fonden
national development fund, Barclays said in the report.  “The resolution is positive because it will allow them to
increase the international reserve position at any moment and
reduce the disorder in the dollar accounts that favor
corruption,”  Alejandro Grisanti , a Barclays analyst based in
New York, said in a telephone interview.  Gold Prices  Venezuela’s liquid cash reserves fell 31 percent in the
first half of the year to $3.1 billion, the central bank said
yesterday. The bank had 11.8 million troy ounces of gold as of
June 30, which it valued at $18 billion, down from $20 billion
as of Dec. 31.  The Finance Ministry official declined to comment on the
level of reserves and the performance of the country’s bonds.
Finance Minister Nelson Merentes said June 26 that he was
working to increase international reserves.  A China-Venezuela development fund holds $16 billion in an
off-budget account, while PDVSA, as the Caracas-based state oil
company is known, has about $8 billion, Grisanti said.  “Merentes obtained the legal power to transfer money from
these off-budget funds to reserves,”  Asdrubal Oliveros , the
director of Caracas-based research group Ecoanalitica, said in a
telephone interview. “We’re going to see a surprise jump in
reserves of up to $4.5 billion at any moment.”  ‘Credit Positive’  The 23 percent decline in reserves this year is mostly due
to a 43 percent plunge in the price of gold, which accounts for
72 percent of holdings, Rodriguez said. Because the central bank
values its gold holdings using a six-month moving average,
reported reserves may fall by $1.1 billion more if gold remains
at current prices, Rodriguez said in an Aug. 8 report.  “The fact that Maduro has given control of these funds to
the central bank is definitely a credit positive move,” Bianca Taylor, senior sovereign analyst at Loomis Sayles & Co. in
 Boston , said yesterday in an e-mailed response to questions.
“However, it is not a panacea. Venezuela’s problems are deeply
structural.”  Venezuela’s five-year credit-default swaps, contracts
protecting holders of the nation’s debt against non-payment,
have climbed 246 basis points, or 2.46 percentage points, to 893
basis points this year as of 12:06 p.m. in New York.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Venezuelan dollar
bonds instead of similar maturity  U.S. Treasuries  narrowed three
basis points today to 937 basis points, according to JPMorgan’s
EMBI Global index.  ‘Drought Levels’  Venezuela’s reserves have fallen to critical levels and the
government must act to demonstrate that it’s shoring up
holdings, according to Tamara Herrera, the chief economist at
Caracas-based financial research firm Sintesis Financiera.  “We had to reach drought levels of international reserves
for them to pass an obvious resolution that reduces
uncertainty,” Herrera said in a telephone interview. “Now they
have to demonstrate that they have control.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net ;
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  