-- Verizon Looms Over Canadian Telecom Stocks
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2013-08-09T20:48:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/verizon-looms-over-canadian-telecom-stocks.html
BCE Inc. (BCE)  and  Telus Corp. (T)  beat profit
and subscriber forecasts while shares of the wireless carriers
languish near lows for the year.  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) ’s
potential plans for Canada explain why.  BCE and Telus yesterday reported profit, sales and
subscriber gains that topped analysts’ estimates -- joining
 Rogers Communications Inc. (RCI/B) , which last month added more
smartphone customers than forecasts. BCE, Canada’s biggest
telecommunications company, also increased its estimate for
full-year sales growth to account for its C$3 billion purchase
of Quebec broadcaster Astral Media Inc.  After doubling between December 2008 and June 17, when
reports that New York-based Verizon was interested in entering
Canada surfaced, BCE dropped 5.3 percent through yesterday.
Shares of Vancouver-based Telus and Toronto-based Rogers have
both declined 12 percent since then.  The slump has pushed Telus’s price-to-earnings ratio down
to 15 yesterday from 17 in the first quarter, BCE’s to 14 from
15, and Rogers to 11 from 15 over the same time frame. Verizon’s
ratio, a measure of a stock’s affordability, stood at 20.  “The Verizon issue is overblown,” said  Paul Harris , a
partner at Avenue Investment Management in Toronto, which
manages about C$300 million ($290 million) in assets, including
shares of BCE and Rogers. If you look at the Canadian carriers’
numbers, “they’re going to continue to be really great cash
cows. They’ve got great dividends.”  Dipping Toe  Verizon, whose market value of $142 billion is more than
double that of BCE, Telus and Rogers combined, said in June it’s
weighing a bid to buy Wind Mobile, the largest of three new
Ontario-based carriers. Verizon Chief Financial Officer Fran Shammo described the possible bid as “just us dipping our toe
in the water.”  Shares of Verizon, which runs the largest U.S. wireless
carrier as a joint venture with  Vodafone Group Plc. (VOD) , have
dropped 2.7 percent since the first June 17 report of its
Canadian interest.  BCE fell 0.3 percent to C$41.77 at 4 p.m in Toronto, Telus
gained 1 percent to C$30.92 and  Rogers Communications  climbed
0.2 percent to C$40.73. Verizon slipped 0.6 percent to $49.32 in
 New York .  Shammo reiterated last month to analysts on a conference
call that this was an “exploratory exercise for us.”  Robert Varettoni , a spokeswoman for Verizon, said yesterday this is one
of many business opportunities that the company is looking at,
declining to comment further.  Four Carriers  Wind, Public Mobile and Mobilicity have all struggled to
gain market share from their larger rivals, even after the
Canadian government reserved wireless spectrum for them in 2008.
An auction of fresh spectrum, critical to carriers’ ability to
offer sufficient airwaves for data-hungry smartphone users, is
scheduled for January.  The government in June blocked Telus’s bid to buy
Mobilicity.  James Moore , Canada’s new Industry Minister, said he
would stick with the government’s pledge to foster four
competitors in each region of the country.  Under current rules, foreigners can buy a Canadian carrier
with less than 10 percent share of the wireless market, paving
the way for Verizon to bid on the new spectrum.  “It’s very uncertain that Verizon is going to come in and
the threat is sort of nebulous,” said  David Cockfield , managing
director of Northland Wealth Management in Toronto. Northland’s
C$200 million in assets includes shares of BCE and Telus. For
people who want steady dividend income, BCE represents a “good
value,” he said.  ‘About Fairness’  The chances of Verizon entering Canada are below 50
percent, “given the potential costs to enter the market and the
small upside,”  John Culver , an analyst with ratings company
Fitch, said in a note yesterday.  BCE, Telus and Rogers have released statements, put ads in
newspapers and are lobbying the federal government to close what
they consider to be unfair loopholes originally designed for
small new players that it says Verizon could exploit.  “There’s no question, it’s about fairness -- it’s also
about spectrum,” John Gossling, Telus chief financial officer,
said in a telephone interview yesterday. “Spectrum is the
lifeblood of our industry and we need this spectrum for the next
tranche of our growth.”  Patricia Trott, a spokeswoman for Rogers, said, “We
believe there should be a fair and level playing field,”
echoing comments by CEO Nadir Mohamed to analysts last month.  Active Dealmaker  BCE CEO George Cope said yesterday that Verizon cannot be
allowed to buy Canadian carriers at a discount nor should it
have preferred access to new spectrum.  “It’s very clear that Verizon does not need government
handouts,” he said.  Cope has also been the most active dealmaker in  Canada ’s
media and telecommunications landscape. His agreement to buy
Astral was the latest in a series of acquisitions that
transformed the company and triggered a broad multiyear rally in
the stock -- until the Verizon announcement.  BCE remains the best stock among the three, said Cockfield,
who plans to buy more shares in BCE on the strength of
yesterday’s results.  “They have better management than they had previously and
they’re showing a lot more entrepreneurial action,” he said.  The stocks could fall further if Verizon enters Canada,
said Colin Moore, an analyst with Credit Suisse AG in Toronto.  “An actual commitment by Verizon would likely lead to
further pressure and cause a long-term overhang on the sector,”
he said.  Rogers remains Canada’s largest wireless operator, though
it’s no longer adding more of the lucrative multiyear contract
customers each quarter. Telus added 100,000 last quarter, BCE
signed on 96,390, and Rogers gained 98,000. All three numbers
were better than analysts had projected.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  