-- Volatility Bets Using Exchange-Traded Notes Hit a Record
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 2013-08-09T14:06:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/volatility-bets-using-exchange-traded-notes-hit-a-record.html
Investors trying to protect against
declines in U.S. stocks have spurred record demand for
securities tracking equity  volatility  and traded more VIX
options than ever before.  Shares outstanding of the  iPath S&P 500 VIX Short-Term
Futures ETN (VXX) , a security designed to rise when stock fluctuations
increase, have tripled this year, reaching a record 99.9 million
on Aug. 5.  Call volume  on the Chicago Board Options Exchange
Volatility Index rose to 1.12 million on Aug. 6, the most ever
and about five times more than put trades, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Equity investors are piling into securities that hedge
losses as a way to protect gains after the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index jumped 19 percent this year and surpassed 1,700 for the
first time. While volatility has evaporated in the past month
amid economic data showing stronger U.S. growth, Lake Hill
Capital Management LLC’s Justin Golden said investors are
preparing for swings to increase. U.S. legislators must decide
whether to raise the government debt limit later this year and
most economists expect the  Federal Reserve  to cut the pace of
bond purchases in September.  “We’ve seen a pick-up in  VIX (VIX)  products as the preferred
method of hedging,” Golden, a partner at Lake Hill Capital
Management, said in a phone interview yesterday. The New York-based hedge fund trades options on equity indexes and
commodities. “The price of VIX options has come in and people
are taking advantage of that to buy hedges against a pop in
volatility and a sell-off in the market.”  “There are a number of economic events coming up and this
has become the preferred way to protect yourself,” he said.  Rising Demand  Rising demand for protection against stock declines has
made the iPath S&P 500 VIX ETN the fifth-most active U.S.
exchange-traded security. About 37.5 million shares of the ETN
traded on average in the past 30 days, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Options and ETFs that track the VIX, as the gauge of S&P
500 options prices is known, have gotten cheaper this year after
better-than-estimated corporate profits and faster economic
growth lifted shares and pushed the volatility gauge lower.  The VIX rose 0.5 percent to 12.79 at 9:55 a.m. in  New York 
today. It is down 29 percent in 2013 and on Aug. 5 it reached
11.84, close to a six-year low. The VIX and the S&P 500 move in
opposite directions about 80 percent of the time.  Europe ’s
VStoxx Index has dropped 20 percent this year and was at 16.99
today.  Budget Debate  When members of Congress return from their August recess,
they and the president will confront a host of decisions on the
economy. Republican lawmakers are demanding spending cuts in
exchange for raising the debt limit while Obama argues for
spending increases for infrastructure improvements, expanded
educational opportunities and more support for research.  Half of the economists in a July 18-22 Bloomberg survey
expected the central bank to decide at its September meeting to
trim the pace of its monthly bond buying to $65 billion from the
current $85 billion. That’s up from 44 percent in last month’s
poll.  An investor spent $8.97 million on Aug. 6 on a bet that
volatility will rise during the next six weeks. About 130,000
VIX September 17 calls were purchased in the trade, while the
same number of calls with a strike price of 27 were sold,
according to a Susquehanna Financial Group LLLP report.  ‘Big Trade’  The transaction will be profitable if the VIX climbs above
17 and doesn’t exceed 27 by the Sept. 18 expiration. The call
spread strategy reduces the cost of trade while capping the
potential gain. The investor closed a similar strategy at a loss
in August, the Susquehanna report said on Aug. 6.  “It was a big trade,” Greg Richards, who oversees VIX and
S&P 500 options transactions as an institutional broker at
Chicago-based PTR Inc. on the CBOE floor, said in an interview
yesterday. “It’s consistent with the trend we’ve seen where
upside call spreads are popular strategies for customers looking
for cheap insurance.”  This is the wrong time to buy protection against volatility
because  stocks  are in the middle of a  bull market , according to
Randall Warren of Warren Financial Service.  “You need a timing mechanism instead of just doing it
because it’s cheap,” Warren, who oversees about $100 million
including options as chief investment officer of the Exton,
Pennsylvania-based firm, said yesterday in phone interview. “It
doesn’t look like there will be a lot of volatility over the
next month. I would wait with buying insurance until the VIX
starts moving and there’s a different tone to the market.”  Volatility Gauge  The VIX has averaged 14.1 this year, 30 percent below its
long-term average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
last time the volatility gauge was this low was 2006, when the
mean was 12.81.  The index has closed at 17 or above 12 times in 2013,
compared with 144 times last year, the data show.  More investors are betting on gains in the VIX than
declines. The call-to-put  ratio  of outstanding contracts climbed
to 2.47-to-1 on Aug. 6, the highest since April, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. Since the July 17 options expiration, call
 open interest  jumped 61 percent to 5.76 million, while put
ownership increased 44 percent to 2.33 million.  September 17 calls, with an exercise level 34 percent above
yesterday’s VIX close, had the  largest  open interest, followed
by September 27 calls, according to the data.  For the  VelocityShares Daily 2x VIX Short-Term ETN (TVIX) , the
number of shares outstanding has  climbed  sixfold to a record
86.2 million this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
security is the second most-traded note that profits from gains
in U.S. stock volatility.  “Since the market is waiting on the FOMC meeting as the
next big catalyst, buying forward volatility is a good hedge,”
Michael Schmanske, founder and chief executive officer of New
York-based Glenshaw Capital Management LLC, said in an
interview. “Long positions in VIX calls and calls spreads look
particularly attractive.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Cecile Vannucci in London at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  