-- Wells Fargo, SAC, Pimco, Third Point Re, Dell: Compliance
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2013-08-09T12:15:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/wells-fargo-sac-pimco-pnc-third-point-re-dell-compliance.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  didn’t misrepresent
its securities-lending program to Blue Cross Blue Shield of
Minnesota and 11 other institutional investors and isn’t liable
for any losses, a federal jury found.  The St. Paul, Minnesota, jury yesterday cleared the bank of
all allegations the investors made in their 2011 lawsuit. The
plaintiffs claimed the bank marketed a risky program as safe and
was responsible for $8.2 million in losses. Wells Fargo blamed
any losses on the financial crisis and denied it provided any
misleading information.  Under the program, Wells Fargo held its clients’ securities
in custodial accounts and would make temporary loans of these
securities to brokers. The brokers would use these securities to
support their trading activities, such as short sales and option
contracts. Securities lending has been traditionally viewed by
pension funds and foundations as a low-risk investment.  The suit was one of  at least five  against Wells Fargo over
securities lending in Minnesota, where the program was based.
The San Francisco-based bank lost the first case to go to trial
in 2010, when a state court jury awarded  Minnesota Workers’
Compensation Reinsurance Association  and three foundations about
$30 million. That judgment was upheld on appeal.  The current trial before U.S. District Judge Donovan W.
Frank involved allegations by Blue Cross Blue Shield of
Minnesota, the El Paso County Retirement Plan and 10 other
nonprofit groups seeking reimbursement of losses and punitive
damages.  The Minnesota case is Blue Cross Blue Shield of Minnesota
v. Wells Fargo Bank, 11-cv-02529, U.S. District Court, District
of Minnesota (St. Paul).  Wells Fargo Mortgage Modification Lawsuits Revived by Court  In a separate action involving Wells Fargo, a U.S. Court of
Appeals yesterday held that the bank must face lawsuits by home
loan borrowers for refusing to offer them permanent mortgage
modifications.  The federal government’s 2009 Home Affordable Modification
Program requires the bank to offer permanent adjustments to
homeowners who met the terms of a trial-period modification, a
three-judge panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals in  San Francisco 
ruled.  “The program seems to have created more litigation than it
has happy homeowners,” the judges said in yesterday’s decision.  Reversing a lower-court dismissal of two separate lawsuits,
the panel rejected the conclusion Wells Fargo was only bound if
it had actually offered the borrowers a fully executed copy of a
modification agreement.  A Chicago-based federal appeals court reached a similar
conclusion last year, the judges said.  Wells Fargo claimed the borrowers hadn’t met all the
temporary plan qualifications and that it was within its rights
to not offer them permanent adjustments, according to the
unanimous ruling.  The appeals court “did not rule on the merits the
underlying case and found only that the district court should
consider the arguments put forth by the plaintiffs,” Tom Goyda,
a spokesman for the bank, said in an e-mail. “Wells Fargo has
strong defenses to those arguments and is prepared to present
its case.”  The cases are Corvello v. Wells Fargo Bank NA, 11-16234 and
Lucia v. Wells Fargo Bank NA, 11-16242, U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Ninth Circuit (San Francisco).  Compliance Action  JPMorgan Said to Be Near SEC Settlement on London Whale Losses  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  is negotiating final terms of a deal
with U.S. securities regulators to end a yearlong probe of
derivatives bets that led to the bank’s biggest trading loss,
two people briefed on the talks said.  While JPMorgan is prepared to say it erred in how it
oversaw a unit and London-based traders, executives aren’t
likely to admit mistakes beyond what they already disclosed, one
of the people said, requesting anonymity because the talks with
the Securities and Exchange Commission aren’t public. How much
the bank pays hasn’t been settled, the people said.  JPMorgan, led by Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , is
seeking to resolve U.S. and U.K. probes after botched trades by
its chief investment office fueled more than $6.2 billion of
losses last year. Senate investigators concluded in March that
the bank dodged regulators and misled investors amid souring
bets by Bruno Iksil, a trader dubbed the London Whale because
his positions were so big.  While the SEC may target some people involved in the
trades, top executives at the New York-based company probably
won’t face claims they lied or misled the public, the people
said. Iksil won’t be charged, Reuters reported yesterday, citing
a person familiar with the matter.  John Nester , a spokesman for the SEC, declined to comment.
Attorneys for Iksil and three other traders either didn’t
immediately respond to messages seeking comment or declined to
comment. The New York Times reported yesterday that JPMorgan may
make some admissions in an SEC deal.  For more, click here.  SEC Judge Grants Motion to Stay Cohen Administrative Case  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s proceeding
against  Steven A. Cohen , billionaire founder of hedge fund firm
SAC Capital Advisors LP, has been stayed pending the resolution
of related criminal matters.  Brenda P. Murray, the SEC’s chief administrative law judge,
denied Cohen’s request to have access to the agency’s full
investigative file during the stay, saying his argument to
obtain the documents was “unpersuasive,” according to an  order 
in administrative court in Washington.  Manhattan U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara  asked Murray on July
26 to delay the administrative proceeding against Cohen until
criminal cases against SAC Capital and two former portfolio
managers had been resolved. Cohen, who didn’t object to the
delay, asked that he still be allowed prompt access to the SEC’s
investigative records.  The SEC accused Cohen on July 19 of failing to supervise
two employees who face criminal charges that they illegally
traded stocks based on confidential information. The regulator
is seeking to bar Cohen from overseeing investor funds.  PNC Gets Subpoena on Foreclosures as DOJ Pursues Mortgage Loans  PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC)  got a U.S. subpoena tied
to foreclosure expenses on federally backed home loans and said
two agencies are investigating whether its mortgages were
unfairly priced.  The Department of Justice told PNC in June it may file a
civil complaint tied to an investigation into “whether mortgage
loan pricing by National City and PNC had a disparate impact on
protected classes,” according to a regulatory  filing . The
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has authorized settlement
talks, the Pittsburgh-based bank said. PNC purchased National
City Corp., one of the nation’s biggest subprime home lenders,
in 2009.  Additionally, the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Southern
District of New York wants information about expenses tied to
foreclosures of loans insured or guaranteed by the Federal
Housing Administration,  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  or  Freddie Mac (FMCC) , according to
the filing. PNC said it’s cooperating with the  investigation ,
which is in its early stages.  Compliance Policy  Loeb’s Reinsurer With No U.S. Staff Gains From Obama’s Jobs Act  Billionaire hedge-fund manager  Daniel Loeb ’s Third Point
Reinsurance Ltd., which has no staff in the U.S., said it can
limit financial disclosure after a public offering because of
rules promoting domestic job creation.  Third Point Re is an “emerging growth company” under the
Jumpstart Our Business Startups -- or JOBS -- Act, according to
filings for the planned initial public offering. Under the act,
companies with less than $1 billion in annual revenue can
qualify, allowing reduced disclosure about executive pay and
waiving requirements for auditors to attest to a company’s
financial controls.  President Barack Obama has said the JOBS Act, which became
law last year, would make it easier for companies to raise
money, leading to employment growth. Bermuda-based Third Point
Re shows how the benefits aren’t exclusive to companies adding
U.S. jobs, said  Barry Ritholtz , chief executive officer of
FusionIQ, the provider of equity-analysis software.  “This was all about small companies and startups, not
wealthy hedge-fund managers,” Ritholtz said in a telephone
interview. “Was this anticipated by the JOBS Act? Well, not if
you paid attention to the rhetoric we heard.”  Rob Bredahl, the reinsurer’s chief financial officer,
didn’t respond to messages by phone and e-mail seeking comment
about plans for hiring or financial disclosure. Elissa Doyle, a
managing director at Loeb’s Third Point LLC hedge fund, declined
to comment.  Third Point Re plans to raise as much as $322.2 million in
an IPO, according to an Aug. 5 filing. The company said Loeb’s
Third Point LLC manages almost all the reinsurer’s investment
portfolio of more than  $900 million . New York-based Third Point
LLC managed $13.2 billion in assets as of June 30.  Loeb’s reinsurer doesn’t plan to use all the special
treatment available in the JOBS Act. It opted out of the ability
to be exempt from future revisions of public-company accounting
standards, according to filings.  Third Point Re kept its initial draft IPO prospectus
confidential in May while the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission reviewed it. Such confidentiality is permitted for
emerging growth companies under the JOBS Act, and contrasts with
the usual approach of larger U.S. IPOs. A revised Third Point Re
filing and the first draft were made public in July.  For more, click here.  In the Courts  Pimco, Bank of New York Seek to Block Richmond Mortgage Plan  Pacific Investment Management Co.,  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and  Bank
of New York Mellon Corp. (BK)  are seeking a court order blocking
Richmond, California, and Mortgage Resolution Partners LLC from
seizing mortgages through eminent domain, saying the initiative
would hurt savers and retirees.  The city’s plan is unconstitutional, according to
complaints filed Aug. 7 by mortgage-bond trustees in federal
court in San Francisco. The trustees, Wells Fargo & Co. and
Deutsche Bank AG, were directed to take the action by the
investors in the debt that also include  Jeffrey Gundlach ’s
DoubleLine Capital LP, said John Ertman, a partner at Ropes &
Gray LLP. Bank of New York said in a separate complaint the
beneficiaries of trusts it oversees include pension funds and
mutual funds.  “Mortgage Resolution Partners is threatening to seriously
harm average Americans, including public pension members, other
retirees and individual savers through a brazen scheme to abuse
government powers for its own profit,” Ertman said in an e-mailed statement on behalf of investors.  The Federal Housing Finance Agency said yesterday in a
statement that it may direct Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the
Federal Home Loan Banks “to limit, restrict or cease business
activities within the jurisdiction of any state or local
authority employing eminent domain to restructure mortgage loan
contracts.”  Andrew Wilson , a spokesman for Fannie Mae, and Thomas
Fitzgerald, a spokesman for Freddie Mac, said the companies were
among the investors authorizing Wells Fargo and Deutsche Bank to
sue. The government-controlled firms guarantee almost 70 percent
of new mortgages.  The program would harm owners of mortgage bonds by paying
them too little for loans, as well as damage communities by
drying up lending, trade groups representing asset managers,
bankers, real-estate firms and builders have said in past
statements. Costs to investors could exceed $200 million just on
loans in Richmond, according to the Wells Fargo complaint.  Proponents of the plan including Cornell University law
professor Robert Hockett and Steven Gluckstern’s Mortgage
Resolution Partners, which is advising municipalities and lining
up private funds that would profit as the buyer of the loans,
dispute those claims. They  have said  that the plan will survive
court scrutiny.  Under the program that Mortgage Resolution Partners has
pitched, a private investment fund would buy loans from bond
trusts for amounts less than current property values. The prices
would be based on financial models or comparable trades and
sanctioned by courts.  The mortgages would then be reduced and homeowners
 refinanced  into new debt insured by the Federal Housing
Administration.  The cases are Wells Fargo Bank v. City of Richmond,
13-3663, and Bank of New York Mellon v City of Richmond,
13-3664, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Francisco).  For more, click here.  Dell Founder Accuses Investor Icahn of Legal ‘Grandstanding’  Dell Inc. (DELL)  founder  Michael Dell  accused investor  Carl Icahn 
in court papers of “grandstanding” in efforts to expedite
litigation aimed at thwarting a leveraged buyout of the company.  Icahn sued Dell and his company Aug. 1 in Delaware Chancery
Court, contending the founder’s offering price of $13.65 a
share, now as much as $13.96 with dividends, was too low.  Now “plaintiffs appear to seek a hurry-up hearing at the
end of which they will ask the court to order Dell to hold the
vote on the proposed merger simultaneously with the annual
meeting -- which would require a delay in the vote,” Dell’s
lawyers said in a filing made public yesterday.  Michael Dell contends in court papers that Icahn is seeking
“undefined” proceedings as “just another soapbox for Mr.
Icahn’s public spat” with Dell board members. The vote is
tentatively set for Sept. 12.  In his motion for expedited handling of the case, Icahn
contends the board “has gone far beyond its lawful role,” has
“ignored the express will of the stockholders,” and is trying
to “force through a merger that those stockholders have
repeatedly voted against.”  Icahn lawyers said directors are working “to rig the vote
in favor” of Dell’s “grossly underpriced” offer, and the case
needs a quick resolution because an opportunity for
recapitalization financing expires Sept. 30.  The case is High River v. Dell Inc., CA8762, Delaware
Chancery Court (Wilmington).  CommonWealth Rises After Arbitrators Remove Investor Hurdle  CommonWealth REIT (CWH)  rose the most since February after an
arbitration panel struck down a provision making it more
difficult for stockholders to remove the company’s board of
trustees.  A bylaw adopted in March requiring  shareholders  to own at
least 3 percent of the stock for a minimum of three years before
trying to remove the board is invalid, the panel found. Corvex
Management LP and Related Cos., which began buying shares
earlier this year and own about 9.6 percent of the company,
sought to void that rule as they began a campaign to remove the
trustees, claiming conflicts of interest and mismanagement.  While the arbitrators also denied a request by the
investors to set an expedited shareholder meeting to elect a new
board, the decision on the bylaw is perceived as “very
favorable” to Corvex and Related, John Guinee, an analyst with
Stifel Nicolaus & Co., wrote yesterday. The companies began
seeking votes in April to oust the trustees and said they gained
support from holders of more than 70 percent of the shares.
CommonWealth, based in Newton, Massachusetts, has said the
effort was invalid under its bylaws.  The three-member panel ruled that the trustees “may not
adopt either a minimum ownership threshold or a minimum holding
period which operating either separately or together
substantially impairs the right of shareholders to proceed with
a consent solicitation by making the obtaining of a record date
on a consent solicitation unreasonably difficult to achieve,”
according to a filing from Corvex.  Previous bylaws requiring that holders own at least $2,000
of stock for at least one year remain in effect pending a
further order, CommonWealth said. The panel made no
determination on whether those limits were valid or not,
according to the filing.  “We look forward to continuing through the arbitration
process and to a full hearing on these matters,” CommonWealth
said in a statement yesterday.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  