-- Won Set for Best Week in a Month on China Optimism; Bonds Gain
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-08-09T02:05:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/won-set-for-best-week-in-a-month-on-china-optimism-bonds-gain.html
South Korea’s won was set for the
best weekly performance in a month after  China  export data eased
concern about a slowdown in the nation’s largest overseas
market. Government bonds gained.  South Korea’s economy is growing “moderately,” led mainly
by exports, the Bank of Korea said yesterday after keeping the
benchmark interest rate at 2.5 percent. China reported increases
in exports, imports, manufacturing and services over the past
two weeks. Federal Reserve officials indicated a greater
willingness this week to begin tapering the bond-buying program
that has spurred the flow of funds to  emerging markets .  “China’s better-than-expected trade data turned sentiment
and supported many Asian currencies, including the won and the
Aussie dollar,” said Jahng Won, a currency trader at Shinhan
Bank in Seoul. “South Korea’s economic growth seems stable,
external factors such as the Fed’s tapering schedule is what
investors are more concerned about.”  The won advanced 1.1 percent this week to 1,111.18 per
dollar as of 10:20 a.m. in Seoul, the biggest gain since the
five days through July 12, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency rose 0.2 percent today and touched
1,107.55, the strongest level since May 14.  The yield on the 2.75 percent sovereign bonds due June 2016
dropped six basis points to 2.91 percent, the biggest weekly
decline since the period ended July 12, according to Korea
Exchange Inc. prices. The rate fell two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, today.  China Plans  Korea Investment Corp., the country’s sovereign wealth
fund, plans to spend as much as $10 billion to triple its
allocation to alternative assets and is also looking to expand
its investments in China, Lee Dong Ik, chief investment officer
at KIC, said in an interview on Aug. 7. In 2011, the fund was
granted a license from Chinese authorities to invest in the
country’s stock market under the Qualified Foreign Institutional
Investor program.  China’s  exports  rose 5.1 percent from a year earlier in
July after contracting 3.1 percent in June, official data showed
yesterday. That exceeded the median estimate of 2 percent growth
in a Bloomberg survey.  Imports (CNFRIMPY)  advanced 10.9 percent, higher
than the forecast of a 1 percent gain. The nation’s non-manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index rose to 54.1 in July
from 53.9 in June while manufacturing PMI climbed to 50.3.  Chicago Fed President Charles Evans said three days ago he
would not rule out a decision to start cutting bond purchases at
the Sept. 17-18 gathering of the Federal Open Market Committee.
His comments were similar to those from Cleveland Fed President
Sandra Pianalto, who said she would be prepared to scale back
stimulus if the labor market continues to improve.  One-month implied volatility in the Korean won, a measure
of expected moves in the exchange rate used to price options,
fell 123 basis points this week and 12 basis points today to a
three-month low of 6.81 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yewon Kang in  Seoul  at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  