-- Zuckerberg Among Donors to Christie, Booker’s Campaigns
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p ,   R o d n e y   Y a p   a n d   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2013-08-09T18:49:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-09/zuckerberg-among-donors-to-christie-booker-s-campaigns.html
At least 20 people, including
 Facebook Inc. (FB)  co-founder  Mark Zuckerberg , have contributed to
the campaigns of both Democratic U.S. Senate candidate Cory Booker and Republican Governor Chris Christie, an analysis of
their largest donors shows.  Donors to both also include  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD)  co-founder Reid Hoffman, Home Depot Inc. co-founder Kenneth Langone and venture
capitalist Marc Andreessen, the data show. In total, the 20
people have given a combined $258,000 to the two politicians.  Christie, 50, enjoying high approval ratings for his
 Hurricane Sandy  response, is seeking a second term in November
and may run for president in 2016. Booker, the 44-year-old mayor
of Newark, New Jersey’s largest city, had considered challenging
Christie’s re-election bid. He opted instead to run in the race
to replace Senator Frank Lautenberg, who died in June. Both are
frontrunners by wide margins in recent polls.  “Big-name donors think New Jersey has two influential
politicians whose star is rising and who may one day be in the
White House,” said Patrick Murray, director of the Monmouth
University Polling Institute in West Long Branch. “Campaign
donors are purchasing access.”  $100 Million  Zuckerberg joined Christie and Booker on the Oprah Winfrey
television show in 2010 to announce he would donate $100 million
to  Newark ’s struggling school system. Zuckerberg held his first
political fundraiser, for Christie, in February, and has said he
would help Booker as well.  Since Booker announced his Senate run this year, Zuckerberg
has donated $10,400 to his campaign. He also gave Christie
$3,800 in the primary cycle, according to the state Election Law
Enforcement Commission.  “Mark has been a strong supporter of both Booker and
Christie for years, due in large part to their work on education
reform,” Sarah Feinberg, a Facebook spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  While the 20 donors have given $87,400 to Christie so far
in the primary and general election campaigns, they donated
$170,600 to Booker, according to an analysis of the records by
Bloomberg News. Federal law allows Booker to raise money for
future election cycles, and he’s so far raised more than $10,000
from more than 150 people to fund four elections through
November 2014.  Funds Raised  Christie scheduled an Aug. 13 primary and Oct. 16 general
election for the Senate seat. Whoever wins this year would face
another campaign in 2014, when Lautenberg’s term expires.  Booker has raised $8.6 million through July 24, according
to submissions made with the Senate public records office.
Christie has reported $6.9 million in funds raised during the
primary and another $2.2 million raised for the general
election, according to reports filed with the state Election Law
Enforcement Commission.  Kevin Roberts, a spokesman for Christie’s campaign,
declined to comment on why the two share common donors.  “The governor has developed a broad bipartisan and
national base of support that has supported the governor and his
re-election financially,” Roberts said in an interview. “We
see that as due to his strong leadership and his record of
bipartisan leadership.”  Big Donors  Christie, the first Republican elected New Jersey governor
since 1997, has forged alliances across the state with
Democratic leaders -- including Booker on public education
changes, Essex County Executive Joseph DiVincenzo for his
pension overhaul and southern New Jersey Democratic leader
George Norcross for plans to reshape the state university
system. Forty-four elected Democrats, including DiVincenzo, have
endorsed Christie’s re-election bid.  In the two debates among the Democrats seeking Lautenberg’s
seat, Booker’s opponents have criticized his ties to Christie
and the reports that he has a million-dollar ownership stake in
Internet startup Waywire LLC. Booker said his work with Christie
was proof of his willingness to forge ties with Republicans to
advance issues he cares about.  Kevin Griffis, a spokesman for Booker, said he would
comment later today.  Wall Street  LinkedIn’s Hoffman gave $5,200 to Booker and $3,800 to
Christie, filings show. Saida Sapieva, a spokeswoman for
Hoffman, didn’t immediately return a telephone call or e-mail
seeking comment.  Andreessen, co-founder of the Menlo Park, California-based
venture-capital firm Andreessen Horowitz, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail or to a voice message left for his personal
assistant, Arsho Avetian.  Mark Gerson of Summit, New Jersey, co-founder of Gerson
Lerhman Group Inc., a  New York  City investment-research firm,
didn’t respond to a message left at his office. He gave $10,400
to Booker and $3,800 to Christie.  Another donor was Joseph Cayre, whose Midtown Equities is a
co-holder of a 99-year lease on the World Trade Center site.
That acquisition, six weeks before the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist
attacks that destroyed the twin towers, was the biggest
acquisition in New York City history, at $3.2 billion, according
to Midtown’s website. Cayre, who gave $5,000 to Booker and
$7,600 to Christie, didn’t immediately respond to a phone
message left at his office.  Cynthia Lufkin of Washington Depot,  Connecticut , the co-chairman of the Breast Cancer Research Foundation, gave $10,400
to Booker and $3,800 to Christie. Lufkin died of complications
related to lung and breast cancer on July 3. She was the wife of
Dan Lufkin, co-founder of the Wall Street firm Donaldson, Lufkin
& Jenrette.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ;
Rodney Yap in Los Angeles at 
 ryap@bloomberg.net ;
Elise Young in Trenton  at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  