-- ‘Major Severe Weather’ Forecast for U.S. Midwest Today
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-06-12T17:48:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/-major-severe-weather-forecast-for-u-s-midwest-today.html
A powerful storm system capable of
toppling trees, knocking out power and tying up air traffic will
probably start later today with an outbreak of strong tornadoes
across northern  Illinois  and Iowa.  Almost 51 million people from Iowa to the Atlantic are
under threat from “major severe” thunderstorms and high winds,
said the  U.S. Storm Prediction Center . About 12 million of them,
including  Chicago  residents, are in the area most at risk.  “We have a powerful weather system taking shape in the
Midwest,” Russell Schneider, director of the center in Norman,
 Oklahoma , said by telephone. “This is a very significant
weather day for Chicago and the upper Midwest, one of the more
severe weather days they will see this year, so people need to
have a plan.”  There is a chance the storms will grow into  a derecho , a
rare event characterized by winds of at least 58 miles (93
kilometers) per hour creating a line of damage at least 240
miles long. A derecho swept through the Midwest into the mid-Atlantic  a year ago , knocking out power to 5 million people from
Chicago to the  District of Columbia  and killing 22, according to
government data.  Today’s storm will probably cause widespread power failures
and disrupt air traffic, especially at Chicago’s O’Hare
International Airport and in  Detroit , Schneider said.  Tornado Threat  “There is a significant tornado threat across northern
Illinois and Iowa and that threat will quickly become a damaging
wind and hail threat,” he said.  At noon local time, 95 flights had been canceled at O’Hare,
according to  FlightAware , a Houston-based airline tracking
service.  Derechos are rare because they require a number of smaller
storms “to work together,” Schneider said. More than 75
percent of derechos occur from May to August and they’re most
likely to happen along an axis from the southern  Great Lakes 
southwest into Texas, according to the storm center.  Today’s storms are also expected to bring heavy rains,
according to the  National Weather Service . Flood watches,
warnings and advisories stretch in an unbroken string from
northern Illinois to Massachusetts.  There is a chance of severe weather later today and
overnight along the Interstate 95 corridor from Philadelphia to
Washington, said  Tom Kines , a meteorologist with AccuWeather
Inc. in  State College , Pennsylvania. Those storms won’t be the
main threat, however.  Tomorrow’s Threat  A second round of bad weather, sparked by the same system
crossing the Midwest today, will strike at the mid-Atlantic
tomorrow, Kines said.  An area from central  New Jersey  to northern Virginia,
including Philadelphia, Baltimore and Washington, has a 45
percent chance of high winds, hail and possibly tornadoes,
according to a storm center forecast.  Kines said New York City and Boston may be spared the worst
weather. The New England states will benefit from cool onshore
winds that will help stabilize the atmosphere, keeping the
severe thunderstorms from forming, he said.  Severe thunderstorms and the tornadoes that sometimes
accompany them caused $15 billion in insured losses in 2012 and
$25 billion in 2011, according to the  Insurance Information
Institute  in  New York .  From 1992 to 2011, thunderstorms and tornadoes accounted
for the second-highest amount of catastrophic loss in the U.S.,
$130.2 billion, topped only by hurricanes and tropical storms
with $161.3 billion, the institute said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  