-- Qatar, U.A.E. Shares Jump as MSCI Upgrade Stokes Inflow
-- B y   D a l i a h   M e r z a b a n   a n d   S h e r i n e   E l   M a d a n y
-- 2013-06-12T12:56:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/abu-dhabi-shares-jump-as-msci-upgrades-u-a-e-to-emerging-market.html
Qatari and United Arab Emirates
shares rallied after  MSCI Inc. (MSCI)  upgraded both countries to
emerging-market status, stoking bets foreign investors will
channel more money into equities in the oil-exporting region.  Qatar ’s benchmark QE Index advanced to the highest level in
almost five years, while shares in Abu Dhabi, one of seven
emirates that make up the U.A.E. along with Dubai, jumped the
most in the world today. Following five years of review, MSCI,
whose equity indexes are tracked by investors with about $7
trillion in assets, will promote the two countries from
frontier-market status as of May 2014.  “It has been a long journey, but we’ve finally arrived,”
said Georges Elhedery, head of global markets for the Middle
East and North Africa at HSBC Holdings Plc. “Today’s decision
firmly establishes the region on the  emerging-markets  growth map
in the minds of global institutional investors.”  The upgrades have the potential to draw $800 million of new
funds into Qatari and U.A.E. shares, according to HSBC.
Economies in the six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council are growing
three times faster than developed markets as governments funnel
oil wealth into infrastructure projects, including plans to
build stadiums and roads in Qatar before the nation hosts the
2022 soccer  World Cup .  Foreign Ownership  As GCC countries were upgraded, MSCI cut Morocco to a
frontier market for failing to meet minimum liquidity levels.
Morocco’s main index fell 0.4 percent as of 1:54 p.m. in Rabat,
set for the lowest level since 2006.  Egypt ’s EGX 30 Index
entered a  bear market  after MSCI said a worsening of the
nation’s foreign-exchange situation may force the index provider
to reconsider the country’s emerging-market status.  MSCI raised  Qatar and U.A.E. after they adopted changes
including a buyer cash-compensation procedure, which enables
investors to be paid in cash if a security is unavailable for
delivery on settlement day. Qatar, the world’s biggest exporter
of liquefied natural gas, has raised foreign-ownership limits of
companies in its $141 billion stock exchange, the Qatar Exchange
cited Finance Minister Yousef Hussain Kamal as saying on June 5.  Qatar National Bank SAQ, the nation’s biggest listed
company and the largest lender in the  Middle East , limits
foreign ownership at 12.49 percent of capital, according to data
on the Qatar Exchange website. Some companies in Qatar and the
U.A.E. allow foreigners to own as much as 49 percent.  Investor ‘Gateway’  “Banking, telecommunications and the largest companies”
would be the first to benefit from the MSCI upgrade, Salah Shamma, co-head of equity asset management at Franklin Templeton
Investments Middle East, said by phone today. “It’s a gateway,
you create that gateway and once the investors are in the region
then they start to look at second tier.”  Qatar National jumped 4 percent to 155.4 riyals, the
highest since 2005. The QE Index rose 1.8 percent to 9,517.95,
the strongest since September 2008.  Today’s upgrade helped the U.A.E.’s $153 billion stock
markets extend two of the world’s top-5 equity rallies for 2013.
Dubai’s has surged 48 percent and  Abu Dhabi ’s 39 percent, the
third- and fifth-best performing gauges globally among 94
tracked by Bloomberg.  Pressuring Saudi  Abu Dhabi’s ADX advanced 2.7 percent, the most since
December 2009, while Dubai’s DFM General Index rose 1.6 percent
as  Emaar Properties PJSC, (EMAAR)  the company that developed the world’s
tallest tower in Dubai, jumped 2.8 percent. Foreign investors,
who currently own 15.9 percent of Emaar out of a possible 49
percent, data on the exchange’s website show.  “We see the upgrade a as major game changer for the U.A.E.
and Qatar,” Wafic Nsouli, executive director of institutional
sales at Arqaam Capital Ltd., said by phone. “The long-term
benefits that accompany the upgrade include fund inflows and
along with that comes a depth and breadth of liquidity. It’s
essentially a place on the map for these markets.”  Still, in the near-term the MSCI upgrades are “unlikely to
have any significant near-term impact on how we manage our
client portfolios,” Sam Vecht, head of the emerging markets
specialist team at  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , said in a statement today.  The Middle East’s biggest stock market is  Saudi Arabia ,
which limits foreign ownership of shares to equity swaps and
exchange-traded funds. The top OPEC producer is weighing plans
to allow foreigners to buy shares directly in its $405 billion
exchange, a move that could draw as much as $30 billion of
inflows, according to  John Burbank , founder of $3.7 billion San
Francisco-based hedge fund Passport Capital LLC.  MSCI’s move “puts additional pressure on Saudi Arabia to
accelerate its qualified investor program and we now believe
this is likely over summer,” Emad Mostaque, a London-based
strategist at Noah Capital Markets EMEA Ltd., said in an e-mailed statement today. The regulations would likely include
restrictions on companies located in the holy cities of Mecca
and Medina, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daliah Merzaban in Dubai at 
 dmerzaban@bloomberg.net ;
Sherine El Madany in Dubai at 
 selmadany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  