-- Actis $1.5 Billion Africa Property Plan to Tap Middle Class
-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 2013-06-13T13:02:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/actis-1-5-billion-africa-property-plan-spurred-by-middle-class.html
Actis LLP, a private-equity company,
will lead investment of as much as $1.5 billion in African
commercial property to meet rising demand from international
companies targeting a growing middle class.  “We are seeing a shift in interest from South African
brands to European retailers” seeking opportunities in fast-growing economies such as  Nigeria , Ghana and Kenya, Kevin Teeroovengadum, 39, director of Actis’ sub-Saharan  Africa  real
estate unit, said in an interview in Johannesburg on June 11.
“They want to tap into the emerging middle class.”  Actis, which is based in London, plans to invest in
projects including shopping centers, office towers and
industrial parks that will come to fruition over the next five
years, Teeroovengadum said. The company will use the proceeds of
its second African real estate fund that raised $280 million in
October, while the rest of the investment will come from
commercial partners and loans.  Africa’s economy, excluding Libya and Somalia, is forecast
to expand 4.5 percent in 2013 and 5.2 percent next year amid a
rise in oil and mining projects and direct investment from
foreign companies, according to the Tunis-based  African
Development Bank ’s annual outlook. Nigeria, the continent’s most
populous country, grew 6.6 percent in the first quarter while
 South Africa , the continent’s biggest economy, expanded by an
annualized 0.9 percent.  Africa Foothold  Actis has raised about $1.4 billion across seven Africa
funds since 2003, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
company is also pursuing deals in South America and Southeast
Asia in sectors including energy and technology.  Africa is home to the world’s youngest and fastest-growing
population, McKinsey & Co. said in a 2010 report. Household
expenditure in the continent is forecast to expand 63 percent to
$1.4 trillion by 2020, the report said. Shantayanan Devarajan,
the  World Bank ’s chief economist for Africa, said in May last
year that “this is a very good time for retailers to get a
foothold in Africa.”  Actis has already invested the proceeds of an initial $155
million real estate fund in malls and office buildings in Ghana,
Nigeria, Kenya, Botswana and Mauritius, Teeroovengadum said. The
company has partnered with Mauritian investment company GML to
invest in Port Louis-based Indian Ocean Real Estate Co., which
is developing a $1.5 billion town in the island nation.  “We have leapfrogged to shopping centers of 25,000 square
meters from existing small shops” in Nigeria and Ghana,
Teeroovengadum said.  “The idea was when you go into Africa,
you benefit from middle-class growth.”  South African retailers  Shoprite Holdings Ltd. (SHP) ,  Mr Price
Group Ltd. (MPC)  and  Truworths International Ltd. (TRU)  have outlets in
Actis’ Nigerian shopping centers, Teeroovengadum said. Spanish
fashion chain Zara, owned by  Inditex SA (ITX) , and Arcadia Group
Ltd.’s Topshop are among European chains with African expansion
plans.  The company is adding industrial and logistics parks to its
African property portfolio in response to a “complete lack” of
that kind of infrastructure, Teeroovengadum said. “These
opportunities will happen in key markets such as  Mozambique ,
 Zambia , Ghana.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Johannesburg at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  