-- Alcatel Chief Says Plans Are Ready to Help Exit Strategy Crisis
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2013-06-12T16:09:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/alcatel-chief-says-plans-are-ready-to-help-exit-strategy-crisis.html
Alcatel-Lucent (ALU)  SA’s Michel Combes,
who took over as chief executive officer on April 1, said he’s
drafted an operational plan for the network equipment vendor and
picked the management team to execute it.  Combes, who will detail the strategic road map on June 19,
plans to stem cash consumption to let the company invest more in
innovation, he said today at a telecommunications conference
organized by French daily newspaper Les Echos.  “For two months now, I’ve been at in Alcatel-Lucent
offices all day, every day,” Combes said. “This company
definitely knows innovation, and it has strong relationships
with its clients. The real problem is that the financial
situation isn’t sustainable. We need to generate cash.”  Taking the reins after predecessor Ben Verwaayen’s asset
sales and firings failed to achieve a turnaround, Combes last
month said Alcatel-Lucent will use divestments and partnerships
to help stem losses. The company’s consumed an average 700
million euros ($934 million) of cash annually since its creation
with the 2006 merger of Alcatel SA and Lucent Technologies.  Shares of Alcatel-Lucent closed today unchanged at 1.36
euros in Paris. They’ve have gained almost 36 percent this year.  Before taking the post at Alcatel, the 51-year-old
Frenchman was due to take over  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s SFR phone unit last
year and didn’t proceed with the move. Combes joined from
Vodafone Group Plc, where he’d been recruited by Vittorio Colao
when he took over as CEO in 2008, and had previously held
positions at France Telecom SA and French mobile-phone tower
company TDF.  Facing Crisis  “Alcatel-Lucent is facing a strategy, operational and
financial crisis,” Combes said. “I’ve been faced with similar
situations in my career. It’s diagnosis first, then choosing
people internally and externally to help bring confidence back
and put things into motion.”  At Vodafone, Combes oversaw a 2 billion-pound ($3 billion)
cost-cutting program, reducing headcount and lowering spending
on network gear and logistics.  In his first address to investors last month, Combes said
Alcatel-Lucent could emulate Ericsson AB, which a decade ago
focused on mobile equipment and reorganized its workforce to
expand the Swedish company into the world’s largest vendor of
wireless networks. He will face intense competition from the
likes of  China ’s Huawei Technologies Co. and ZTE Corp., which
have taken market share from European competitors, falling short
only in the U.S., where security concerns prevent them from
winning major network contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  