-- Amgen Ovarian Cancer Drug Meets Goal of Late-Stage Study
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2013-06-12T20:16:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/amgen-says-ovarian-cancer-drug-meets-goal-of-late-stage-study.html
Amgen Inc. (AMGN) , the world’s largest
biotechnology company by sales, said its experimental drug for
recurrent ovarian cancer met a late-stage study goal, helping
patients live 1.8 months longer without the disease progressing.  Patients taking trebananib plus the chemotherapy paclitaxel
lived a median 7.2 months without their cancer advancing,
compared with 5.4 months in the group on paclitaxel alone,
 Thousand Oaks , California-based Amgen said today in a statement.
The company said it expects data on overall survival, an
important measure of a drug’s effectiveness, in 2014.  There will be about 22,240 new cases of ovarian cancer in
the U.S. this year, with about 14,230 deaths from the disease,
according to estimates from the  American Cancer Society . More
than 70 percent of women with ovarian cancer have an advanced
form of the disease when they are diagnosed, and as many as 80
percent will have their disease recur, Amgen said.  “These results suggest that the novel biology of
trebananib may offer a promising approach for patients with
ovarian cancer,” Sean E. Harper, Amgen’s executive vice
president of research and development, said in the statement.  Trebananib is being tested in three studies in the final
phase generally required by regulators for approval. The study
reported today, called Trinova-1, included more than 900 women.
The most common side effects of the drug were swelling, nausea
and alopecia, or hair loss. The rate of discontinuation because
of adverse events was 20 percent on trebananib plus paclitaxel
compared with 7 percent for those on paclitaxel alone.  Amgen declined 1.6 percent to $96.37 at 4 p.m.  New York 
time. The shares have gained 12 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  