-- Mandela Responds to Care After ’Difficult Days’: Zuma
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   J a c o   V i s s e r
-- 2013-06-12T12:57:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/mandela-remains-hospitalized-for-fifth-day-as-visitors-regulated.html
Nelson Mandela  is responding better
to treatment for his recurring lung infection today after a
“difficult few days,” South African President  Jacob Zuma  said.  “I am happy to report than Madiba is responding better to
treatment from this morning,” Zuma told lawmakers in  Cape Town 
today, referring to the former South African leader by his clan
name. “We are very happy with the progress that he is now 
making.”  Mandela, 94, was hospitalized June 8 for the fourth time
since December. The nation’s first black president is in
“serious, but stable” condition, Zuma’s office said yesterday.  Mandela led the country for five years after his African
National Congress party won all-race elections in 1994. He spent
27 years in prison, most of them on Robben Island off the coast
of Cape Town, where he contracted tuberculosis. Mandela won the
Nobel Peace Prize in 1993 for bringing about a peaceful end to
apartheid.  Mandela was treated in the hospital in April for pneumonia 
and had to have fluid drained from around his lungs. He also had 
gall stones removed this year. While his latest illness was 
affecting Mandela’s respiration, he was still able to breathe 
on his own,  Mac Maharaj , Zuma’s spokesman, said on June 8. 
Mandela is in intensive care, Maharaj told SAfm radio today.  Today marks the 49th anniversary of Mandela’s sentencing to
 life imprisonment  in 1964, Zuma said.  “On this crucial historical anniversary, our thoughts are
with President Mandela and his family,” Zuma said. “We
appreciate the messages of support from all over the world.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jaco Visser in Johannesburg at 
 avisser3@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  