-- Apollo Tyres Slumps After Deal to Acquire Cooper Tire
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p   a n d   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2013-06-13T10:59:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/apollo-tyres-to-purchase-cooper-tire-rubber-for-2-5-billion.html
Apollo Tyres Ltd. (APTY)  plunged the most
in more than two decades in Mumbai trading, wiping out a quarter
of its market value, after agreeing to acquire  Cooper Tire &
Rubber Co. (CTB)  for about $2.5 billion.  Apollo Tyres, based in Gurgaon, India, fell 25 percent, the
biggest drop since Jan. 1991. Cooper Tire shares surged 41
percent yesterday in New York. Apollo Tyres, which will fund the
purchase through borrowings, said it will pay $35 a share to
Cooper Tire shareholders. That’s 43 percent higher than the June
11 closing price of $24.56.  Apollo Tyres, which last month agreed to sell most of its
South African operations to  Sumitomo Rubber Industries Ltd. (5110)  for
$60 million, is looking to offset slower automobile demand in
 India  and Europe amid weaker economic expansion. The company,
which has said it wants to be among the top 10 tiremakers by
2016, would enter the U.S., the second-biggest auto market,
where deliveries are on pace for the best year since 2007.  “We see this as a risky acquisition as the management
would have little room for error given the high  leverage , very
little synergy benefits and the poor demand environment
currently,” Kaushal Maroo and Siddhartha Bera, analysts at
Emkay Global Financial Services Ltd., wrote in a report
yesterday after the deal was announced. Emkay said it has put
under review its earlier  recommendation  for holding the stock.  Apollo Tyres fell 25 percent to 68.55 rupees at the close
in Mumbai. Cooper Tire shares rose to $34.66 at the close in New
York yesterday.  Biggest Deal  The deal would be the biggest takeover of an auto-parts
maker since 2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The acquisition will provide “scale and geographical
presence including the American and European market, that’s a
mature market, and India and  China  that’s a growing market,”
Neeraj Kanwar, vice chairman of Apollo Tyres, told reporters at
a briefing yesterday in Gurgaon. The companies expect the deal
to close in the second half of the year.  “These kinds of cross-border transactions, suppliers from
different countries investing in each other’s markets, is always
good for the industry,” Sanjeev Varma, managing director of
Stellar Alliance Group LLC, a Troy, Michigan-based automotive
industry consultant, said in an interview yesterday.  Apollo Tyres and Findlay, Ohio-based Cooper Tire will
borrow money from four banks, Apollo Tyres Chief Financial
Officer Sunam Sarkar said. The two companies will jointly raise
$2.1 billion from the sale of high-yield bonds with maturity of
as long as eight years, he said.  New Debt  Apollo Tyres’ exposure to new  debt  will be about $450
million, Sarkar said. The companies will also raise some funds
with asset-backed loans, he said.  The size of the deal is more than three times Apollo Tyres’
 market value  of about 37.6 billion rupees.  The four banks that will help arrange the funds are
Standard Chartered Plc, Morgan Stanley, Deutsche Bank AG and
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., according to a joint statement issued
by the two companies.  Sullivan & Cromwell LLP and Amarchand & Mangaldas & Suresh
A Shroff & Co. served as legal advisers to Apollo Tyres. BofA
Merrill Lynch served as financial adviser and Jones Day served
as legal adviser to Cooper Tire, according to the statement.
Morgan Stanley and Deutsche Bank also served as financial
advisers to Apollo Tyres.  Cooper Tire will be delisted from the New York Stock
Exchange after the completion of the acquisition, the two
companies said in the statement.  Cooper Tire has gained 37 percent this year,  compared  with
a 14 percent increase for the Russell 2000 Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net ;
Karthikeyan Sundaram in New Delhi at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  