-- Apollo Said to Give Deal Fees to Investors in Next Fund
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2013-06-12T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/apollo-said-to-give-deal-fees-to-investors-in-next-fund.html
Apollo Global Management LLC (APO) , the
private-equity firm run by  Leon Black , plans to give fund
investors all fees levied on companies in its next flagship
pool, according to two people familiar with the situation.  Apollo Investment Fund VIII LP, which is seeking $12
billion, agreed to direct 100 percent of transaction fees to
clients, after proposing an 80 percent share when the fund
started marketing last year, said the people, who asked not to
be identified because the information is private. The prior
fund, which raised $14.7 billion in 2008, offered 68 percent,
according to a limited-partnership agreement for that fund.  Apollo, one of the most successful firms in navigating the
aftermath of the financial crisis, recently came under attack on
the issue of transaction fees. Unite Here, a union representing
workers in industries including gaming, hotels and food service,
in April criticized New York-based Apollo and TPG Capital for
the fees they’ve reaped from their investment in  Caesars
Entertainment Corp. (CZR)  Last month, the Oregon Investment Council
 made  a $300 million commitment to the new Apollo fund contingent
on a 100 percent transaction fee offset, according to two other
people familiar with the situation.  Charles Zehren , a spokesman for Apollo at public relations
firm Rubenstein Associates, declined to comment.  Private-equity firms charge fees to the companies they buy
for services such as consulting and investment banking. Fund
investors, known as limited partners, have pushed back, saying
the practice reduces the value of their holdings by siphoning
cash from the companies. Limited partners also object because
the levies reward buyout firms regardless of the performance of
the investments.  Fee Split  While the standard fee split had been 80-20 in favor of
investors, private-equity firms are moving toward 100 percent as
they compete for investor money in a tough fundraising
environment. Leonard Green & Partners LP made changes to its
2011 fund that included giving investors 100 percent of
transaction fees, up from the originally planned 80 percent.
Warburg Pincus LLC has typically allocated all fees to limited
partners.  Apollo is expected to hold an initial close on the fund of
at least $5 billion by this month. The firm set a $15 billion
maximum on the fund, after starting marketing without a limit,
according to the people. If that hard cap is met, the fund would
be one of the largest raised after the 2008 financial crisis.  Apollo’s private-equity funds have realized about $13
billion in proceeds over the last 16 months, according to board
meeting documents from Teacher Retirement System of  Texas .  Apollo’s previous flagship fund, Fund VII, was generating a
net 28 percent internal rate of return as of March 31, according
to the Texas TRS documents, after taking advantage of distressed
opportunities that came out of the financial crisis. The firm’s
$10.1 billion Fund VI, which invested during the buyout boom of
2006 to 2008, was generating a 10 percent net IRR as of the same
date, the data shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in  New York  at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  