-- Asia Stock Futures Drop Before U.S. Data; Yen Strengthens
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-06-12T23:22:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/asia-stock-futures-drop-before-u-s-data-yen-strengthens.html
Stock futures in Japan,  Hong Kong 
and Australia fell before investors get their next look at the
health of the  U.S. economy  with reports on jobless claims and
retail sales. The yen strengthened against its major peers.  American Depositary Receipts  of Toyota Motor Corp. fell 2.6
percent from the close in Tokyo as the yen gained against the
dollar, weakening the earnings outlook at the world’s largest
carmaker. ADRs of Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd., Asia’s biggest
international carrier, declined 1.8 percent from the close in
Hong Kong. Those of BHP Billiton Ltd., the largest mining firm,
slid 0.7 percent.  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  expiring this
month closed at 13,000 in Chicago yesterday, 2.1 percent below
the 13,280 close in Osaka. They were bid in the pre-market at
12,980 in Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index retreated 0.8 percent, indicating the market
will enter a correction, commonly defined as a 10 percent drop
from a recent high. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index fell 0.3 percent.  “People are still trying to assess the prospects,
likelihood and timing of tapering from the  Federal Reserve ,”
Chris Green, Auckland-based strategist at First NZ Capital Ltd.,
a brokerage and wealth-management firm, said in a phone
interview. “They are easing off the accelerator, not applying
the brakes. Markets want stability in the economy but they also
want unlimited stimulus. The two can’t continue to exist
together.”  Futures on Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index slid 0.6 percent and
contracts on the Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland
companies trading in Hong Kong retreated 0.8 percent. The
Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded Chinese
shares in the U.S. dropped 1 percent in New York yesterday.
Markets in China and Hong Kong reopen after holidays.  Stimulus Expectations  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index, the benchmark regional
equities gauge, fell 8.6 percent through yesterday from this
year’s high on May 20 on speculation that an improving U.S.
economy will lead the Federal Reserve to scale back record
stimulus. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in May that policy
makers could reduce the pace of bond buying should there be
sustained improvement in the U.S. economy.  The Asian benchmark yesterday traded at 12.8 times average
estimated earnings, compared with 14.6 for the  Standard & Poor’s
500 Index (SPX)  and 12.8 times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.1
percent. U.S. stocks fell yesterday, with the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  posting its first three-day losing streak
this year, as investors weighed prospects for economic growth
and the pace of Fed stimulus measures. Sustainable jobs growth
and wage gains have been cited as conditions for scaling back
stimulus. Fed policy makers next meet June 18-19.  The  World Bank  cut its global growth forecast for this year
after  emerging markets  from China to Brazil slowed more than
projected, while budget cuts and slumping investor confidence
deepened Europe’s contraction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  