-- Volkswagen Sells $1.6 Billion Bond to Finance New Autos
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h   R a u w a l d
-- 2013-06-12T13:25:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/audi-sees-new-a3-sedan-as-best-selling-version-of-model.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW) , Europe’s biggest
carmaker, sold 1.2 billion euros ($1.6 billion) in debt
convertible to preferred stock to finance expansion that
includes new plants and a full takeover of truck unit  MAN SE. (MAN)   Proceeds from the mandatory convertible notes, which have a
5.5 percent coupon and mature in November 2015, will be used to
fund growth, Wolfsburg, Germany-based VW  said  today. The sale
comes as VW’s Audi division, the world’s second-largest luxury-car manufacturer, starts making its new A3 sedan at a Hungarian
plant that was expanded for more than 900 million euros.  VW is setting up new production sites worldwide in such
markets as China and North America and adding models to overtake
 General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  as the world’s biggest
automaker by 2018. The German company, which already owns more
than 75 percent of Munich-based MAN, is offering to buy out the
truck producer’s other investors.  The bond sale “is an expensive way to raise capital,”
Fraser Hill, a London-based analyst at Bank of America Merrill
Lynch, said today in a research report. “Buying the remainder
of MAN could consume up to 3 billion euros, although this should
still leave the group well capitalized,” so investors may
interpret the sale as showing “a desire to make further
acquisitions” while sustaining its credit rating.  Stock Drops  Volkswagen preferred shares, the company’s most widely
traded stock,  fell  as much as 3.1 percent to 160.05 euros, the
steepest intraday drop since May 23, and were 2.7 percent lower
at 3:15 p.m. in  Frankfurt . The stock has declined 6.7 percent
this year, valuing the company at 73.5 billion euros.  Net liquidity at VW’s automotive operation  fell  32 percent
to 10.6 billion euros as of March 31, the company said in its
first-quarter earnings report.  “Our aim is to maintain the favorable liquidity position,
the strong capital structure and our good rating in comparison
with Volkswagen’s competitors,” Chief Financial Officer Hans Dieter Poetsch said yesterday in a statement.  The debt sale complements a similar financing move in
November, Volkswagen said today. The earlier sale, of 2.5
billion euros in bonds that automatically convert into shares in
three years, also included an annual coupon of 5.5 percent.  VW has begun construction of a factory in Changsha, China,
part of a 9.8 billion-euro investment program for the country.
The Volkswagen group plans to offset a contraction in the
European car market by rolling out 60 new and updated models,
and expanding in the premium-car segment, Chief Executive
Officer Martin Winterkorn said in April.  Sedan Buyers  Audi (NSU)  predicted yesterday that the sedan version of the
compact A3 will outsell the model’s existing hatchback and
convertible variants to help narrow the gap with global luxury-car sales leader Bayerische Motoren Werke AG. The division
predicts that every other buyer of an A3 will choose the sedan,
Josef Schlossmacher, an Audi spokesman, told journalists late
yesterday in Budapest.  The new A3 “plays a decisive role for our growth course,”
Audi CEO Rupert Stadler said today at a ceremony marking the
start of the sedan’s production at the brand’s plant in Gyor,
 Hungary . “We’re fully on track to reach our goal of selling 2
million cars by 2020 -- maybe even a few units more.”  The factory is one of the world’s largest engine-manufacturing facilities. Audi also assembles the TT sports car
and A3 convertible there.  Russian Production  The Gyor expansion project more than triples the plant’s
annual car production to 125,000 vehicles. The added capacity is
part of Audi’s efforts to widen its manufacturing network beyond
 Germany , including boosting production in  China  to as much as
700,000 vehicles.  Audi plans to build more cars outside its home country than
domestically for the first time next year. The division is
starting to use VW group plants in  Russia , Stadler said today.  Audi accounted for 56 percent of Volkswagen’s first-quarter
operating profit. The division has a target of dethroning
Munich-based BMW as the world’s best-selling luxury-vehicle
maker by the end of the decade. Audi  sold  1.47 million cars and
sport-utility vehicles in 2012, including 164,666 A3s.  VW’s other premium brands include sports-car manufacturer
Porsche, British luxury-vehicle producer Bentley and the
Lamborghini and Bugatti supercar nameplates. The company also
owns the Seat and Skoda mass-market divisions.  Investment Budgets  Volkswagen outlined a 50.2 billion-euro group investment
budget for its automotive business in November to finance new
models, additional plants and research and development through
2015. Audi’s spending plans, announced in December, total 13
billion euros through 2016.  The MAN takeover bid is part of VW’s strategy to leapfrog
Daimler AG and Volvo AB to become Europe’s largest truckmaker.
Volkswagen is seeking more cooperation between its own
commercial-vehicle operations, MAN and Swedish truck producer
 Scania AB (SCVB) , which VW also controls.  VW is offering 80.89 euros per MAN share in its bid. That
compares with the truckmaker’s price today of about 84 euros a
share. Investors who don’t accept the cash deal will receive an
annual dividend of 3.07 euros a share.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  was the sole bookrunner of the
convertible note sale, VW said yesterday. Orders for the sale
were closed late yesterday because of strong demand, said a
person familiar with the transaction who asked not to be
identified because the matter was private.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christoph Rauwald in Gyor at 
 crauwald@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  