-- Australia Raises Wheat Outlook After Rain Boosts Crop Conditions
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2013-06-12T00:51:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/australia-raises-wheat-outlook-after-rain-boosts-crop-conditions.html
Australia , the world’s fourth-biggest wheat exporter, increased its production estimate after
rains boosted soil moisture, adding to global supply.  Output is set to reach 25.4 million metric tons in 2013-2014 from 24.9 million tons estimated in March and 22.1 million
tons a year earlier, the Australian Bureau of Agricultural and
Resource Economics and Sciences, or  Abares , said today. Exports
may decline to 19.6 million tons in the year starting Oct. 1
from 20.1 million tons, it said.  Global wheat prices tumbled into a  bear market  in January
on expectations that world production will jump 6.9 percent to a
record as expanding harvests from  Canada  to Russia counter
torrential spring rain in the U.S., according to the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture . Australia’s eastern regions are set
for a wetter-than-normal winter, boosting the outlook for
production after some farmers started sowing crops into dry soil.  In eastern states and  South Australia , “recent rainfall
has generally improved conditions for planting after cropping
regions generally experienced very dry conditions during
autumn,” today’s report said. “With soil moisture presently at
low levels, yields will likely be lower than currently assumed
if crops do not receive favorable rainfall while growing and
developing.”  The bureau lowered its area planted to wheat to 13.7
million hectares from 13.8 million hectares estimated in March.
Australia’s canola production is forecast at 3.2 million tons,
up from 2.9 million tons forecast in March, Abares said. Barley
output was predicted at 7.4 million tons from a March estimate
of 7.8 million tons.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  