-- Lawsky Targets $48 Billion Backed by Shadow Insurance
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-06-12T13:43:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/lawsky-targets-48-billion-backed-by-shadow-insurance.html
Regulators should halt approvals of
 life insurance  deals that mask risk while watchdogs investigate
past deals that allowed companies to shift liabilities, New
York’s financial services overseer said in a  report  today.  Carriers in New York had $48 billion in “shadow
insurance,” according to the report from  Benjamin Lawsky ,
superintendent of the New York State Department of Financial
Services. Lawsky has been investigating since July transactions
that life insurers conduct with subsidiaries, known as captives.  Insurers use the captives to decrease the amount of capital
they’re required to hold, Lawsky said in the report. The
department said 17 New York-based firms use such transactions,
without identifying them. The captives, which are typically
based in other jurisdictions, are sometimes capitalized with
letters of credit or intra-company guarantees, which can leave
the parent responsible for claims if losses mount.  “The fact that certain insurers are inappropriately using
shell games to hide risk and loosen  reserve requirements  is
greatly troubling,” Lawsky said in the report. “Shadow
insurance allows companies to divert reserves for other purposes
besides paying policyholder claims.”  Lawsky said he’s requiring New York-based insurers to
disclose more information about their use of the reinsurance
arrangements and called on other regulators to do the same. He
said the  National Association of Insurance Commissioners  and
state watchdogs should conduct similar investigations, and there
should be a moratorium on new captive transactions until those
inquiries are completed. The NAIC had no immediate comment.  Riskier Collateral  Some states let insurers use riskier types of collateral to
back the reinsurance captives, creating a “regulatory race to
the bottom,” Lawsky said. Missouri, Delaware, Iowa,  South
Carolina ,  Nebraska  and Vermont allow captives to be backed by
letters of credit, according to the report.  In the U.S., Vermont had the most captives in 2012,
followed by Utah and Delaware, according to the  Insurance
Information Institute .  The New York Times reported on Lawsky’s report late
yesterday and asked SNL Financial to conduct a separate analysis
of which insurers are using the arrangements.  MetLife Inc. (MET)  and
 Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) , the largest U.S. life insurers, are
among companies using the transactions, the newspaper said.  “Prudential uses captive reinsurance companies in our
domestic insurance operations to more effectively manage our
capital on an economic basis and to enable the aggregation and
transfer of risks,”  Bob DeFillippo , a spokesman for  Newark , New
Jersey-based Prudential, said in an e-mailed statement. “Our
captives are capitalized to a level consistent with AA
financial-strength rating targets.”  MetLife’s View  The contracts are a “cost-effective way of addressing
overly conservative reserving requirements,”  John Calagna , a
spokesman for MetLife, said in an e-mail. “Alternative means of
financing such reserves have drawbacks. Using equity could
reduce returns to levels below those required by investors and
issuing debt could negatively impact credit ratings.”  MetLife said last month it would combine an offshore
reinsurer with three U.S. life units, in part to address
regulatory concerns. Lawsky said at the time that MetLife’s move
was a “step in the right direction as we seek to address the
risks created by the shadowy world of ‘captive’ reinsurance.”  “The  New York  Department of Financial Services’ industry
inquiry regarding captives was an important factor in our taking
a closer look at our offshore reinsurance subsidiary,” MetLife
Chief Executive Officer Steve Kandarian said in a May 21
presentation to investors.  MetLife advanced 1.2 percent to $44.99 at 9:40 a.m. in New
York and is up 37 percent since Dec. 31. Prudential climbed 0.9
percent bringing its gain for the year to 34 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  