-- Ayatollah Khamenei Is Iran’s Supreme Investor
-- B y   M e i r   J a v e d a n f a r
-- 2013-06-12T10:09:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/ayatollah-khamenei-is-iran-s-supreme-investor-meir-javedanfar.html
The best way to understand Iran’s
elections this week is to think of Supreme Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei  as the regime’s supreme investment manager.  Like Warren Buffett, or any other top  fund manager ,
Khamenei is answerable to his shareholders when making a big
investment pick. Both men enjoy enormous personal authority, but
if they keep hurting the interests of their shareholders by
getting the big choices wrong, that authority will erode.  Khamenei’s shareholders consist mainly of the Islamic
Revolutionary Guard Corps and the Principalists, a broad
coalition of conservative politicians. Where Buffett is judged
by the companies and stocks in which he invests, Khamenei is
judged by the politicians he picks or supports for positions of
authority, and how those people further the economic and
political interests of the supreme leader’s supporters. And the
most important pick Khamenei has to make this year is Iran’s
next president.  Khamenei’s last presidential investment,  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , didn’t work out so well. Instead of uniting Iran’s
conservative elite, Ahmadinejad’s antics and leadership style
created infighting and division. He ravaged the regime’s
standing abroad with inflammatory speeches, such as his  denial 
of the Holocaust. At home, his populist economic policies caused
extensive damage, which today can be witnessed in Iran’s high
level of  inflation  -- which the nation’s official statistics
agency put at 30 percent in May -- and 12 percent unemployment,
according to International Monetary Fund data.  Appalling Record  Coupled with international sanctions triggered by Iran’s
alleged nuclear-weapons program, this appalling economic record
has hurt not only the Iranian people, but also the business
interests of the revolutionary guard.  Today, the guard has major business interests in the
construction, oil-and-gas, and automotive industries, as well as
in the manufacture and importing of electronic goods. To give
just one example, the U.S. administration last year named
National Iranian Oil Co.,  Iran ’s state oil company, as an “agent
or affiliate” of the revolutionary guard.  As powerful as the guard is, however, its companies rely on
the Iranian population to buy their products. The less money
consumers have, and the more inflation erodes their purchasing
power, the less they can spend on goods that the revolutionary
guard makes and imports.  Compounding the stakes for Khamenei is that, despite
Ahmadinejad’s damaging antics and policies during his first term
as president, the supreme leader backed him again for a second
term in 2009. Khamenei asked his stakeholders to support that
decision, which they did.  This makes it even more important that Khamenei invests his
political capital and reputation in the right candidate this
time. The next president needs to strengthen the regime’s
cohesion, its domestic- and foreign-policy performance, and the
economy. If Khamenei makes another poor choice, his credibility
and even authority may suffer as important regime stakeholders
begin to doubt his ability to secure their interests.  Khamenei’s top priority right now is to promote cohesion in
the regime’s increasingly divided ranks, a major concern for the
Principalists. Infighting has increased at an unprecedented rate
during Ahmadinejad’s second term, a phenomenon that is more and
more difficult to conceal.  Family Feud  Even Khamenei’s family has been affected. The supreme
leader’s ultraconservative older brother, Sayyed Mohammad
Khamenei recently attacked former President Ali Akbar Rafsanjani, who was planning to run for the office again, but
was disqualified by the Guardian Council. Khamenei’s younger
brother Hojatoleslam Hadi Khamenei then publicly defended
Rafsanjani by stating that those who attack the former president
“want to destroy the Islamic Republic.”  Infighting is one of the main reasons why the supreme
leader had Rafsanjani’s candidacy disqualified. Economics played
an even bigger role. Rafsanjani and his backers want to open
Iran’s economy to new investors, both domestic and foreign, to
promote growth. This would create competition for the
revolutionary guard, hurting its business interests. Forced to
choose between the guard and Rafsanjani, Khamenei had little
choice -- he couldn’t afford to risk alienating the
revolutionary guard, a vital pillar of support for his rule.  Presidential candidates, such as chief nuclear negotiator
Saeed Jalili and Tehran Mayor Mohammad Baqer Qalibaf look like
better investment options for the supreme leader. Both are  close 
to the revolutionary guard and to the conservative circles that
surround Khamenei.  The major difference between these two conservative
candidates is that Qalibaf has more genuine grass-roots support,
especially in Tehran, where he has spent eight years as mayor
and is fairly popular. That also gave him valuable experience in
managing domestic affairs, giving him an edge over some of the
other candidates. This support base makes it more likely that,
as president, Qalibaf would be willing to criticize or oppose
the supreme leader’s policies, whereas Jalili has proved himself
to be a yes-man. Unlike Ahmadinejad, however, Qalibaf would
probably air his differences in private.  The widespread use of election fraud in 2009, when the
Iranian regime went so far as to fake ballot papers for
Ahmadinejad in  Jerusalem  -- 48 voters produced 79 ballots --
shows that the supreme leader doesn’t care much about whom the
majority of Iranian voters would like to see as their leader.
The whole system has been designed to narrow choices and tilt
the process to ensure that a candidate approved by the supreme
leader wins.  Turnout Risk  Still, a low voter turnout this time could also damage
Khamenei’s image as the supreme investor, exposing low levels of
public faith in his leadership. To address this challenge, it
seems that Khamenei hopes the three election-campaign debates --
between the eight candidates the Guardian Council permitted to
stand (out of  686 hopefuls ) -- will create the impression that
the elections will be fair.  In 1989,  Warren Buffett  wrote in a letter to shareholders
that: “It’s far better to buy a wonderful company at a fair
price than a fair company at a wonderful price.” That’s good
advice for Iran’s Khamenei, too. He needs to back a convincing
candidate for the presidency this week, even if that means
paying a higher price in terms of choosing someone who won’t
always toe the line. The Iranian regime’s shareholders are
watching and judging. After a bad investment in Ahmadinejad,
Iran’s supreme investment manager needs to show his worth.  (Meir Javedanfar is an Iranian-Israeli Middle East analyst.
He teaches the contemporary Iranian politics at the
Interdisciplinary Center in Herzliya,  Israel . Follow him on
 Twitter .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Meir Javedanfar at  meir.javedanfar@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at   mchampion7@bloomberg.net  