-- Mayor Bloomberg Asks Donors to Hold Money After Gun Votes
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2013-06-13T15:24:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/mayor-bloomberg-asks-donors-to-hold-money-after-gun-vote.html
New York  Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  is
asking others to help in the gun debate by rewarding lawmakers
who favor stricter controls and punishing those who don’t.  In a letter sent yesterday to more than 1,000 major New
York donors, Bloomberg urges them to withhold contributions to
the four U.S. Senate Democrats who voted April 17 against a
proposal to expand background checks on gun sales.  The direct appeal comes as Bloomberg, a political
independent, has increasingly dipped into his personal fortune
to engage in national political causes. In the past year, the
billionaire 71-year-old founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
News parent Bloomberg LP has spent at least $28 million pressing
issues in sync with his positions. Beyond gun safety, they
include the right of same-sex couples to marry,  climate change 
and allowing the estimated 11 million undocumented immigrants to
become citizens.  “For a mayor, these are not abstract issues,” John Feinblatt, Bloomberg’s chief policy aide, said in a telephone
interview. “These are issues you have to deal with every day,
safety on the streets, the effects of a super storm like Sandy,
embracing immigration as a way of fueling the economy.”  Bloomberg’s appeal to withhold contributions from
Democratic candidates has raised concerns among party leaders
that it could affect the balance of power in the Senate after
the 2014 midterm elections. Democrats hold 52 seats, along with
two independent senators who caucus with the majority party.  Gun Debate  In addition, some on both sides of the debate question
whether Bloomberg’s tactics will harm his gun cause.  “For too long, the field has been ceded to the NRA, so it
is very good that the mayor is waging this campaign,” said New
York Senator Chuck Schumer, a Democrat, referring to the
Fairfax, Virginia-based  National Rifle Association , the nation’s
largest gun-rights lobbying group. “But we should be mindful
that pro-gun safety laws have a much better chance of passing
under a Democratic Senate majority than a Republican one.”  Jay Printz, a retired sheriff in Hamilton,  Montana , and one
of 76 members of the NRA board of directors, predicted that any
Bloomberg involvement in next year’s race for the Senate seat
being vacated by  Max Baucus , one of Bloomberg’s four Democratic
targets, would fall flat.  “ Mayor Bloomberg  wants to be your king, your mommy and
your daddy, to tell you when to drink your Big Gulp and when to
put salt on your tater chips,” Printz said in a phone
interview. “We out here in the West live a little differently.
We believe in personal responsibility and in exercising the God-given rights that are supposed to be protected by the
Constitution.”  Political Activity  A new NRA television advertisement criticizes West Virginia
Senator  Joe Manchin , a Democratic gun enthusiast, for “working
with” Bloomberg and President  Barack Obama  to pass gun laws.
Manchin helped write the background check measure.  “Tell Senator Manchin to honor his commitment to the
Second Amendment and reject the Obama-Bloomberg  gun control 
agenda,” a narrator of the 30-second ad says.  Nonprofit organizations that Bloomberg helped start years
ago, Mayors Against Illegal Guns and the immigration group
Partnership for a New American Economy, have been particularly
active this year, with the gun group in the first three months
of this year surpassing its entire 2012 lobbying budget.  Last month, the partnership led an “iMarch” that promoted
the Senate’s immigration bill using social-media websites. It
attracted tens of thousands of participants, including the White
House’s official Twitter account.  Bloomberg Super-PAC  A super-political action committee Bloomberg formed just
weeks before the Nov. 6, 2012, election helped make him the
fifth-biggest outside spender of the entire campaign season,
according to the Washington-based Center for Responsive
Politics, which tracks campaign spending.  His checkbook remained open this year as he spent more than
$2 million in support of the pro-gun-control Democratic primary
candidate in an Illinois congressional race -- more than twice
as much as the candidates spent. His preferred candidate, Robin Kelly, won that race and the general election.  Bloomberg’s outlays and use of nonprofit organizations rank
him with such politically active Republican billionaires as
David and  Charles Koch , the industrialists who founded the anti-tax Americans for Prosperity and other groups.  Though not required by law to do so, Bloomberg has
disclosed the money he gives to Mayors Against Illegal Guns.
Donors to the Kochs’ AFP, which spent $36 million on ads to
defeat the president last year, are secret.  Big Money  “With his term winding down, the mayor seems to feel more
free to spend, and he certainly has the money to do so,” said
 Melanie Sloan , executive director of Citizens for Responsibility
and Ethics in Washington. She added, “he’s right, sadly, that
big money seems to be the system we have.”  Bloomberg’s latest move was a personal appeal.  Using plain stationery and signed without his City Hall
title, Bloomberg’s letter went to major donors of the Democratic
Senatorial Campaign Committee and to supporters of Senators Mark Pryor of  Arkansas ,  Mark Begich  of  Alaska , Heidi Heitkamp of
 North Dakota  and Baucus of Montana. The New York Times first
reported on the letter.  “I am writing to ask you: the next time these four
Senators want you to support them with donations to their
campaigns, tell them you cannot,” Bloomberg’s letter states in
part. “Until they show that they will stand up for the American
people and not the gun lobby, tell them you cannot support their
candidacy.”  Baucus Retirement  Pryor and Begich are up for re-election next year. Heitkamp
won’t run until 2018, and Baucus announced on April 23 that he
will retire -- just six days after voting against a plan to
expand background checks for purchasers of firearms at gun shows
and over the Internet. The measure failed to advance.  Feinblatt said the letter is just one of “many tactics”
the mayor and his groups will use to keep the gun debate alive.  “When most elected officials take a vote that goes against
the overwhelming  majority  of the public, they hope they never
have to deal with it again,” he said. “We are going to help
Americans raise their voice and remind elected officials they’ve
made the wrong choice.”  Mayors Against Illegal Guns is sponsoring a national bus
tour to build support for expanded background checks and other
gun proposals. The drive begins tomorrow in Newtown,
 Connecticut , on the six-month anniversary of the shooting that
left 20 children dead and touched off the current gun debate.  Counterproductive Strategy  The way “to pass a background check bill is to maintain a
Democratic majority in the Senate, and any efforts that make
that less likely are counterproductive,” said Adam Jentleson, a
spokesman for Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada
Democrat.  “Ninety percent of Democrats agree with the 90 percent of
Americans who support background checks, and a Republican
majority would guarantee that no background check bill passes in
the foreseeable future,” he said.  Bloomberg, in an interview yesterday on  MSNBC ’s “Morning
Joe” program, dismissed the notion that targeting Democrats
could harm the cause of gun control. He said he is patterning
his single-issue approach after that of the NRA, which grades
candidates on their gun votes.  “The NRA has defined how you go about getting something
done,” he said on the show. “We’re judging you, we’re not
judging your opponent. We’ll deal with your opponent at a
different time. We want you to vote this way. This is what’s
right for the country.”  TV Ads  Through Mayors Against Illegal Guns, Bloomberg has spent at
least $12 million on TV ads urging passage of stricter gun laws
and chastising senators -- Democrats and Republicans -- who
oppose such measures.  Senator  Kelly Ayotte , a New Hampshire Republican and the
only Northeastern senator to vote against the gun bill, has been
the subject of critical ads purchased by Bloomberg’s mayors
group. The NRA and the American Future Fund, a Republican-leaning nonprofit, have defended Ayotte in ads.  Some senators targeted by the mayors’ group have responded
with their own ads. “No one from New York or Washington tells
me what to do,” Pryor says in a TV spot. “I listen to
Arkansas.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  