-- BAE Nominates CBI's Carr as Chairman for Olver Succession
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-06-12T06:51:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/bae-nominates-cbi-s-carr-as-chairman-for-olver-succession.html
BAE Systems Plc (BA/) , Europe’s largest
defense company, nominated former U.K. business-lobby executive
 Roger Carr  as chairman to replace Dick Olver, who drew investor
ire last year over the failed merger with EADS.  Carr, currently chairman of British Gas parent company
 Centrica Plc (CNA) , will join BAE’s board on Oct. 1 and take over as
chairman in the first quarter of next year, the London-based
company said in a statement today. Olver’s term was set to
expire in May. Carr, 66,  stepped down  earlier this month as head
of the Confederation of Business Industry.  Olver, who joined BAE’s board as chairman in 2004 and
helped see the company through allegations of illicit business
dealings in  Saudi Arabia , met opposition last year from
investors including  Invesco Ltd. (IVZ) , the No. 1 shareholder, over
merger talks with  European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. (EAD)  The
combination eventually failed amid government opposition. Olver
defended the plan that Invesco said lacked strategic rationale.  BAE “is well-positioned in a rapidly evolving industry to
face uncertainties around defense budgets and has great
opportunities in new geographies and technologies,” Carr said
in today’s statement. “It is my intention to build on these
strong foundations in the years ahead.”  Carr joins as BAE holds a 1 billion-pound ($1.55 billion)
share buyback while the company’s future in its largest market,
the U.S., is unsettled because of questions over long-term
 defense spending . The U.K. also is gearing up for a new
strategic defense review, due in 2015.  Carr was unanimously chosen by the selection committee,
said Nick Rose, the senior independent director at BAE who led
the search this year. “His skills, reputation and relationships
with investors and government ministers will be of considerable
value to the company both at home and abroad,” Rose said in the
statement.  BAE have advanced 17 percent in London trading this year,
valuing the company at 12.7 billion pounds.  Centrica said separately today that Carr will leave his
post as chairman next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  