-- Baidu Drop Makes Index Cheapest in Five Weeks: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-06-12T16:24:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/baidu-drop-makes-index-cheapest-in-five-weeks-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities slumped for a third
day in New York, driving their valuations to the lowest level in
five weeks, as property and Internet companies sank.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. fell 0.9 percent to 87.32 as of 12:01
p.m., set for the lowest close in almost two months.  SouFun
Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , owner of China’s biggest real estate information
website, retreated the most in a month and  E-House China
Holdings Ltd. (EJ)  slid to a seven-week low.  Baidu Inc. (BIDU)  dropped for a
second day while  Cnooc Ltd. (883)  traded at a discount to its  Hong
Kong  stock for the first time in a week.  A three-day decline has driven companies on the China-US
gauge to  trade  at 12 times estimated profit on average, the
lowest level since May 3, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
China’s economy will expand 7.5 percent this year,  Skandinaviska
Enskilda Banken AB (SEBA)  predicted, joining  Daiwa Securities Group
Inc. (8601)  in cutting growth projections after weekend data showed
industrial output in May trailed estimates.  “Chinese stocks are cheap, especially when developed-world
markets have greatly outperformed this year as well as in the
last few years,” Jeff Papp, a senior analyst at Oberweis Asset
Management Inc., which manages $700 million in assets, said in a
telephone interview from Lisle, Illinois. “The new leadership’s
focus is now on quality growth. China isn’t doing anything with
monetary policy to create short-term growth, driving funds to
developed markets with monetary easing policies.”  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., fell 0.6 percent in New York
to $34.61, extending a slide into a fourth day. The Standard and
Poor’s 500 Index was little changed at 1,626.79, as investors
weighed economic reports and the effect of rising bond yields on
equities.  Stock trading  in Hong Kong and Shanghai resumes today after
being closed for a holiday. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises
Index (HSCEI)  tumbled 1.7 percent to an eight-month low of 9959.74 on
June 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brendan Walsh at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  