-- BBVA Says Spain Court Ruling on Mortgage Floors to Reduce Profit
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2013-06-13T09:32:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/banco-bilbao-to-stop-applying-mortgage-floors-hitting-profits.html
Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) 
said its profit will be hurt after a court ruling prompted
Spain’s second-biggest bank to stop applying “floors,” or
clauses setting minimum interest rates, on mortgages.  The bank fell as much as 2.9 percent in Madrid trading
after it estimated the change would reduce profit for June by 35
million euros ($46.7 million) and said the future impact will
depend on the evolution of Euribor, the interest-rate benchmark
widely used for mortgage loans in Spain.  Spain’s Supreme Court ruled that mortgage floor clauses
that don’t meet transparency requirements, including BBVA’s,
will be considered null, the Bilbao, Spain-based lender said in
a regulatory filing yesterday. The decision marks another blow
for a Spanish banking system reeling from the impact of mounting
defaults, shrinking credit demand and tougher capital rules.  “There is a risk from this and it’s definitely an issue,”
said Antonio Ramirez, an  analyst  at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods
Ltd., who downgraded BBVA to “market perform” from
“outperform.” “There is clearly a much bigger incentive for
clients to sue the banks and get these mortgage floors removed
now that the Supreme Court has set a precedent.”  Some Spanish banks, including BBVA, have relied on
interest-rate floors written into mortgage contracts to shield
them from a decline in Euribor, the benchmark for most of
Spain’s 600 billion-euro stock of home loans. One-year Euribor
was 0.484 percent in May, down from more than 5 percent in 2008.  Sabadell, Popular  The removal of floors may reduce BBVA’s earnings by 5
percent in 2014 and 2 percent in 2015, Alvaro Serrano and Sara Minelli, analysts at Morgan Stanley, said in a research note
published today.  BBVA  fell  1.7 percent to 6.63 euros by 10:14 a.m. in
Madrid. Banco Sabadell SA declined as much as 2 percent and
 Banco Popular Espanol SA (POP)   tumbled  as much as 4.1 percent.  As much as 70 percent of the mortgage book at BBVA, or
about 55 billion euros of loans, have floors with an average
rate of 2.65 percent, Benjie Creelan-Sandford, an analyst at
Macquarie Bank Ltd. in  London , said in a May 17 report. Sabadell
SA has 25 billion euros of mortgage loans with floors set at an
average rate of 3.5 percent and Popular has about 37 billion
euros of loans with floors, Creelan-Sandford wrote.  Keeping Floors  The Supreme Court ruling does not strike down floors on
mortgages that were explained to customers in a clear and
transparent way, said a spokesman for  Sabadell (SAB)  in Barcelona, who
asked not to be identified by name in line with its policy. The
bank intends to keep the floors because the bank can demonstrate
it applied them in a transparent fashion, he said.  A spokesman for Popular declined to comment in a phone
interview. Popular Chief Executive Officer Francisco Gomez told
shareholders this week that floors were an “essential
condition” of contracts and their use helped the bank to fix
the price of loans and make them available to clients.  Neither  Banco Santander SA (SAN) , Spain’s biggest bank, nor
 Bankinter SA (BKT)  use mortgage floors, Serrano and Minelli of Morgan
Stanley said in their research note today.  In a 2010 report on mortgage floors, the Bank of Spain
found that of 49 lenders, 16 applied them on more than 85
percent of their loans, while 23 used them rarely or not at all.
The average floor level was 3.12 percent.  “In accordance to the decision of the Supreme Court, BBVA
will cease to apply such floor clauses to consumer mortgage
loans, with effect from May 9, 2013, although it reserves its
right to possible appeals,” the bank said in its statement
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in  Madrid  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  