-- Indonesia Raises Fasbi Rate as Martowardojo Acts on Rupiah
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2013-06-12T09:55:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/bank-indonesia-raises-deposit-facility-rate-after-rupiah-slide.html
Bank Indonesia  raised the rate it
pays lenders on overnight deposits and said it’s ready to buy
government debt in the secondary market as Governor Agus Martowardojo moves to boost confidence in the rupiah weeks after
taking charge.  The central bank raised the  deposit facility rate , also
known as the Fasbi, by a quarter of a percentage point to 4.25
percent effective today, it said in a statement after a board
meeting yesterday. The increase is a preemptive step to maintain
stability after the rupiah weakened and Bank  Indonesia  will
ensure sufficient liquidity in the market, it said.  Indonesian policy makers have struggled to contain the
rupiah’s plunge as a delay in fuel-subsidy cuts hurts investor
sentiment, with the country’s  currency reserves  dropping as the
central bank sold dollars. Rupiah forwards, which weakened to
the lowest in more than three years this week, rose today
following the decision, along with stocks and government debt.  “BI’s decision to raise its Fasbi rate overnight was
unexpected, but a step in the right direction,” said Lim Su Sian, an economist at HSBC Holdings Plc in  Singapore . “In the
next few days, if there is finally an announcement on fuel
subsidy cuts, this could give  market sentiment  towards
Indonesian rupiah assets another shot in the arm.”  The  Jakarta Composite Index (JCI)  erased earlier declines to rise
for the first time in five days today, with the benchmark
posting its biggest gain in almost nine months.  Temporary Weakness  The rupiah weakened 0.4 percent to 9,860 per dollar as of
4:40 p.m. in Jakarta, prices from local banks compiled by
Bloomberg show. It has declined 4.8 percent in the past 12
months and is the worst performer in  Asia  after the Japanese yen
among 11 most-traded currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The rupiah’s weakness is temporary, Finance Minister Chatib
Basri told reporters today. The central bank will ensure the
currency level reflects fundamentals, Martowardojo said.  Bank Indonesia is ready to supply dollars in a “large
quantity” to stabilize the currency, as well as buy  government
bonds  in the secondary market sold by overseas investors, Deputy
Governor Perry Warjiyo said in a text message today. The central
bank is prepared to purchase government debt in any amount, he
said.  “Bank Indonesia is fully prepared to take necessary
measures to stabilize monetary conditions in light of recent
rupiah depreciation,” the central bank said in its statement.
“Bank Indonesia will continue to meet the market requirement
for rupiah and forex liquidity. These preemptive measures are
taken to maintain monetary stability.”  Rate Meeting  Bank Indonesia policy makers are scheduled to meet tomorrow
and all 19 economists  surveyed  by  Bloomberg News  predict they
will keep the key  reference rate  at a record-low 5.75 percent.  “What the BI is trying to do is instill some confidence in
the rupiah following the panic in the market over the past
couple of days,” said  Gundy Cahyadi , an economist at Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. in Singapore. “The fact that the central
bank doesn’t want to wait until the scheduled meeting this week
is a strong signal that the central bank wants to portray the
idea that they are willing to be ahead of the curve.”  The rupiah’s one-month non-deliverable forwards gained 1.6
percent, the most since June 2012, to 10,120 per dollar, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The contracts touched 10,412
yesterday, the weakest level since August 2009.  Investors Exit  Overseas investors have pulled $1.9 billion from stocks and
 local-currency bonds  in Indonesia the past two weeks, putting
pressure on the rupiah as rising U.S. Treasury yields lure
capital from  emerging markets . Prior to today’s gain, the
Jakarta index had lost almost a 10th of its value this month.  Some banking stocks fell today even as the benchmark rose
1.9 percent.  “The higher FASBI rate is a pretext for higher  interest
rates  in general,” and will have an impact on the banking
sector, said Tjandra Lienandjaja, an analyst at PT Mandiri
Sekuritas in Jakarta. “We expect Bank Indonesia to raise its BI
rate, but maybe not this month.”  Standard & Poor’s  cut its rating outlook on Indonesia’s
debt to stable from positive last month, saying a stalling of
reform momentum and a weaker external profile had reduced the
chance of an upgrade over the next 12 months. Failure to lower
subsidies in 2012 led to a record current-account gap, hurting
the rupiah as foreign investors lost confidence.  Reserves Drop  Indonesia is consuming foreign-currency reserves at the
fastest pace in Asia as policy makers struggle to contain the
rupiah’s plunge. Reserves dropped 5.7 percent in a year to $105
billion in May as the central bank sold dollars to bolster the
rupiah, while authorities from  South Korea  to  Taiwan  added to
coffers, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The Fasbi rate is “in many ways more important” than the
 reference rate  because it represents the floor for interbank
borrowing costs, according to analysts at DBS Group Holdings
Ltd. There is no incentive to lend at levels below what they can
earn at Bank Indonesia, so Fasbi-rate changes can have a
“significant impact” on interbank rates and the rest of the
yield curve, they said.  “Bank Indonesia is raising the Fasbi rate to avoid further
speculation on the rupiah and to affirm its commitment in
tightening monetary bias, given higher inflation expectations
ahead,” said David Sumual, a Jakarta-based economist at PT Bank
Central Asia.  Consumer prices  are forecast by economists to accelerate as
President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono’s administration plans to
raise fuel prices to contain expenditure on subsidies. Yudhoyono
has made any boost in fuel prices conditional on Parliament
approving compensation programs for the poor. Inflation may peak
at about 8 percent within three months of a price increase, Chua Hak Bin of Bank of America Corp. estimated.  The Fasbi rate was last raised in August. Economists from
HSBC to Citigroup Inc. had predicted the central bank will raise
the Fasbi before the reference rate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  