-- Bankers Spot Cracks in Norway High Risk Bond Boom: Nordic Credit
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   R e e d
-- 2013-06-12T10:57:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/bankers-spot-cracks-in-norway-high-risk-bond-boom-nordic-credit.html
Norway ’s biggest bank is warning
investors not to underestimate the risks lurking in
Scandinavia’s largest junk bond market.  Magnus Piene,  DNB ASA (DNB) ’s global head of offshore, says
surplus liquidity flowing into Western  Europe ’s biggest oil
producer may lead to a repeat of the spate of defaults Norway
saw at the height of the financial crisis in 2009.  “I see early signs of this coming up again and it’s merely
a function of excess liquidity,” Piene said in an interview in
Oslo. “Instead of putting money into a bank with poor-yielding
deposits, you put them into these high risk projects that you
may consider low risk -- wrongly in some cases, I would say. All
that liquidity is pushing people to do things they shouldn’t be
doing.”  Norway’s stable AAA credit rating has drawn investors
trying to escape the debt crisis in southern Europe. After
piling into  government bonds , those investors are now tapping
unprecedented central bank liquidity to seek out the best
returns inside an economy that credit default swaps suggest is
the world’s safest.  Testing Records  Norway relies on the high-yield market to finance its
offshore industry, where companies use bond proceeds to pay for
oilrigs and ships. Corporate debt issuance this year is already
at 54 billion kroner ($9.3 billion), on pace to top last year’s
record 96 billion kroner, according to  Nordea Bank AB. (NDA)  Junk
bonds make up about half Norway’s corporate debt sales, the bank
estimates.  Piene says the build-up in issuance bears some resemblance
to the credit climate in 2007, when easy access to liquidity
helped finance projects that wouldn’t have survived during a
normal economic cycle. Default rates on Norwegian bonds surged
to 15 percent in 2009, compared with today’s 12-month trailing
rate of 1.3 percent, according to Nordea.  Yet concern a bubble may be developing has caused some
investors to pause. DNB’s Norwegian High-Yield Total Return
Index has lost 1 percent since hitting a record last month. Its
year-to-date return is 3.9 percent, compared with a loss of 0.2
percent for Norwegian government debt with maturities of more
than one year, as measured by a Bloomberg/EFFAS indexes.  Billionaire Bonds  Some of the largest issuers this year include billionaire
Kjell Inge Roekke’s  Aker ASA (AKER) , which has raised 2 billion kroner
in bonds, adding to 2.6 billion kroner last year.  Seadrill Ltd. (SDRL) ,
the oilrig company controlled by billionaire  John Fredriksen , in
March sold a 1.8 billion-krone bond, after raising $2 billion in
dollar-denominated debt and a 1.25 billion-krone issue in 2012.  Non-Norwegian companies are also flocking to the market to
tap local investor demand. Singapore-based Oro Negro Drilling
Pte, London-based  Igas Energy Plc (IGAS)  and  Sterling Resources Ltd. (SLG) 
have all issued dollar-denominated bonds in Norway.  “The Norwegian bond market is just a hub for capital
distribution,” Piene said last week. “People are coming here
to raise money for adventurous projects and hopefully those
ventures are stronger than some of the ventures we saw in
2007.”  Credit indexes signal the market may be cooling after a
“significant spread tightening,” Paal Vammervold, chief
origination manager at Nordea Bank in Oslo, said last week. “We
see credit indexes widening somewhat and that’s at least a
signal that investors aren’t willing to buy everything at any
kind of yield.”  ‘Very Different’  According to Vammervold, it would be wrong to compare this
boom in financing with what happened in 2006 and 2007, in part
since more of the projects now have contracts. “Clearly based
on the issuance that we see now that’s very different this time
around so we feel that the market is more sound,” he said.  Knut Eivind Haaland, a senior vice president who arranges
bond sales at DNB, also said bankers and investors have learned
their lesson. In 2008 to 2009, about 40 percent to 50 percent of
Norway’s  junk bonds  went into some sort of default,
restructuring or covenant breach, he said.  DNB has now seen a “dramatic” increase in the investor
base, tapping buyers in  Sweden ,  Finland ,  Denmark , the U.K. and
the U.S. he said. Deals are also getting bigger and maturities
longer, he said.  “The market is extremely hot, there’s a lot of liquidity
out there,” he said. “But generally structures on bonds are of
better quality.”  On the other side of the financing table, where banks make
loans to companies rather than help arrange bond sales, bankers
are questioning whether there’s a bubble forming or whether the
market will continue to develop into a long-term source of
financing.  “The interesting question is to whom is the Norwegian
kroner  bond market  not open?” Luc Vrettos, a director of global
banking at Citigroup, said at a conference in Oslo last week.
“Who can’t go there? One guy with one asset? Perhaps not.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Reed in Oslo on  at
 areed12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at   jbergman@bloomberg.net  