-- Banorte Seeks $3 Billion in Biggest Mexico Offering in 2013
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-06-12T21:22:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/banorte-seeks-3-billion-in-sequel-to-record-santander-sale-1-.html
Grupo Financiero Banorte SAB (GFNORTEO) ,
Mexico’s third-largest bank, plans to raise as much as $3
billion in the market’s biggest stock offering of the year as
the company expands through acquisitions.  The lender plans to carry out the follow-on offering as
soon as it obtains the necessary authorizations, according to a
regulatory filing today. The sale is subject to market
conditions, the bank said. Banorte shares plunged 4.3 percent to
78.07 pesos at the close of trading in Mexico City, leading the
benchmark IPC index to a 1 percent drop.  “The stock will remain under pressure in the short-term”
as investors brace for the additional supply from the sale, Aldo
Miranda, a trader with Intercam Casa de Bolsa SA, said in a
telephone interview from  Mexico  City. “In the long-term, I like
the growth story. There’s strong appetite for financial industry
stocks.”  The offering adds to a record pace for equity issuance in
Latin America’s second-biggest market. Last year, Banco
Santander SA’s Mexico  unit  raised $4.1 billion through a share
sale as investors sought exposure to an economy the government
says could grow 6 percent after a series of planned policy
overhauls, including opening the energy industry to increased
private investment.  ‘Very Attractive’  The $3 billion transaction represents about a fifth of the
company’s 181.6 billion peso ($14 billion) market
capitalization.  The offering will include new equity issued through the
Mexican stock exchange and a private sale abroad, according to
the statement.  Banorte said yesterday it agreed to buy stakes in Seguros
Banorte Generali and Pensiones Banorte Generali for $857.5
million from  Assicurazioni Generali SpA. (G)   The bank borrowed $800 million earlier this year from a
group of lenders including Morgan Stanley, Bank of America Corp.
and JPMorgan Chase & Co. to help finance its purchase of a stake
in  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) ’s pension fund unit.
Mexico City-based Banorte and Mexico’s Social Security
Institute, known as IMSS, each agreed last year to pay half of
the $1.6 billion price tag for the Afore Bancomer pension fund.  Ayax Carranza, a press official with Banorte, declined to
comment on how the bank plans to use of the proceeds.  The lender was considering a sale of about $2 billion worth
of shares earlier in the year, people with direct knowledge of
the situation said April 5, asking not be named because the
details were still private.  Andres Audiffred, an analyst with Grupo Financiero Ve Por
Mas SA who recommends buying the stock, wrote in a report today
that the selloff triggered by the sale plans has been overdone
and made the current share price “very attractive.”  Banorte has fallen 21 percent from a record high reached on
March 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  