-- Barclays’s Jenkins Says Bankers Must Regain ‘Moral Compass’
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-06-12T17:54:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/barclays-s-jenkins-says-bankers-must-regain-moral-compass-.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  Chief Executive Officer
 Antony Jenkins  said bankers must regain their moral footing and
serve society’s long-term interests if the industry is to undo
the damage caused by the financial crisis.  Bankers were too focused on the short-term, too self-serving and too aggressive in their actions in the years leading
up to the global credit crunch, Jenkins said today at a debate
hosted by London’s St. Paul’s Institute, a church group that
seeks to engage banks with moral questions.  “The financial crisis exposed the destruction that can be
caused if we have capitalism without a moral compass -– lacking
the control which can make it a force for good,” Jenkins said
in prepared remarks at the 17th-century  St. Paul’s Cathedral .
“And the behavior of banks, of course, was at the center of
this lightning storm.”  Jenkins, 51, who took over as CEO in August, is seeking to
revive profit at the lender and avoid repeating the regulatory
missteps that led to the resignation of his predecessor,  Robert Diamond . Jenkins said in February he will cut 3,700 jobs and
target a return on equity, a measure of profitability, that
exceeds the lender’s 11.5 percent cost of capital.  Barclays, the U.K.’s second-largest bank by assets, said
5.3 percent of shareholders opposed its executive-pay report at
its annual general meeting in April as Chairman  David Walker 
said the era of excessive compensation is behind the bank.  The lender had “overpaid” employees in the past and is
“determined to be moderate in the outcomes we produce” on pay,
Walker told investors in London at the time.  ‘Unique Position’  Jenkins received 2.3 million pounds ($3.6 million) in
salary and long-term bonuses last year, compared with 6.3
million pounds Diamond got in 2011. Jenkins said in February he
won’t take a bonus for 2012 after a series of regulatory
missteps including a 290 million-pound fine last June for
attempting to rig global  interest rates .  The bank awarded 428 workers with more than 1 million
pounds in 2012, down from 473 in 2011.  A review by Rothschild Inc. Vice Chairman Anthony Salz in
April was critical of past compensation at the bank and for past
failings in its culture. Barclays paid its top 70 executives
“consistently and significantly above” the industry norm,
according to Salz.  Jenkins said today that a lesson of the crisis was that a
company cannot have long-term success without behaving
responsibly.  “We need to weigh up what the decisions we take will mean
for communities and societies,” Jenkins said. “Capitalism can
be a force for good, and banks in particular occupy a unique
position in society and in capitalism.”  -- Editors: Steven Crabill, Dan Reichl  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in  London  at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  