-- BBA Says Libor Submissions to Be Embargoed for Three Months
-- B y   E d w a r d   E v a n s
-- 2013-06-12T09:19:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/bba-says-libor-submissions-to-be-embargoed-for-three-months-1-.html
The British Bankers’ Association
said it will embargo lenders’ individual contributions to the
London interbank offered rate for three months as part of an
effort to restore confidence in the scandal-tainted benchmark.  Banks’ submissions will still be made available to
regulators in real-time to allow oversight, the London-based BBA
said in a statement on its website today. Publication of same-day one-week and one-month Euro Libor rates will also cease from
July 31, the group said.  The embargo was one of the recommendations made by
regulators after  Barclays Plc (BARC)  was fined a record 290 million
pounds ($454 million) last year for rigging the benchmark.
Regulators are trying to prevent Libor from being used as an
indicator of a lender’s creditworthiness. During the financial
crisis, lenders such as Barclays understated their cost of
borrowing to appear healthier than they were.  “Restoring confidence in Libor as a reliable benchmark is
an absolute priority for the BBA,” BBA Chief Executive Officer
Anthony Browne said in the statement. “We have been working
hard with regulatory authorities and the Government to put in
place the necessary reforms ahead of it transferring to a new
owner.”  The BBA, which created the benchmark in 1986, is being
stripped of its oversight of the rate as part of the overhaul.
The group also stopped quoting Libor for eight maturities and
stopped all quotes for two currencies at the end of last month.  Libor is calculated by a poll carried out daily by Thomson
Reuters Corp. on behalf of the BBA that asks firms to estimate
how much it would cost to borrow from each other for different
periods and in different currencies. The top and bottom
quartiles of quotes are excluded, and those left are averaged
and published for individual currencies before noon in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Evans in London at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  