-- Biggest Insurer Joins Executives Dumping Indian Stocks
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2013-06-12T18:31:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/biggest-insurer-joins-executives-dumping-stocks-corporate-india.html
Large investors led by the Life
Insurance Corp. of  India , and executives at the biggest Indian
companies are selling the most shares since 2010 just as
foreigners plow record funds into the nation’s equity market.  Institutions and insiders at the 30 companies in the  S&P
BSE Sensex (SENSEX) , the nation’s main index, sold 14.66 billion rupees
($254 million) of stocks in the January-March period, the most
in any quarter since the final three months of 2010, exchange
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Sales were 7.63 billion rupees
in April and May, the data show. The Sensex climbed to its all-time high in November 2010.  LIC, the top insurer, and officials at companies including
cigarette maker  ITC Ltd. (ITC)  and HDFC Bank Ltd. sold even as Morgan
Stanley and Deutsche Bank AG forecast the Sensex to increase at
least 18 percent by end of December. Foreigners have bought a
net $15.2 billion of equities this year, the highest after  Japan 
among 10 Asian markets tracked by Bloomberg.  “While some domestic institutional investors might have a
less positive outlook for India’s economy and markets, foreign
funds continue to have an interest as India looks attractive
relative to other  emerging markets ,”  John Praveen , the New
Jersey-based chief investment strategist at Prudential
International Investments Advisers LLC, wrote in an e-mail. “A
reason for insiders to sell could be to take profits after the
strong gains posted by the Sensex in the past year.”  BRIC Outperformance  Indian stocks are outperforming their peers in the BRIC
group of nations that also include Brazil, Russia and  China  by
the most on record, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The Sensex
has climbed 13 percent in the past year, the best performance
among benchmark indexes in the BRIC group. Equities in the other
three markets have fallen in the past 12 months.  Large investors, or funds with at least 5 percent stake,
and executives sold 145.9 billion rupees of shares in quarter
ended Dec. 31, 2010, a period that saw the Sensex climb to a
record 21,004.96 on Nov. 5, the data show. The gauge sank 25
percent in 2011, its worst annual loss since the 52-percent
slump in 2008 during the financial crisis.  LIC sold about 3.62 million shares of  Dr. Reddy’s
Laboratories Ltd. (DRRD)  between Jan. 10 and May 10, according to an
exchange filing. The drugmaker’s shares have climbed 19 percent
this year, reaching a  record  on June 7.  “Selling by LIC could have to do with taking profits or
raising funds to participate in the government’s share-sale
program,” Deven Choksey, managing director at Mumbai-based K.R.
Choksey Shares & Securities Pvt., said by phone.  India plans to raise 400 billion rupees in the year to
March 2014 selling stakes in state companies including Coal
India Ltd., the world’s top producer of the fuel. The sale of a
9.33 percent stake in MMTC Ltd. begins today.  ‘A Lottery’  Executives at ITC  sold  shares in May as the stock jumped to
an all-time high on May 30. Insiders in HDFC Bank, the nation’s
most valued lender, also pared holdings last month as the stock
surged to a  record .  “It’s like a lottery as top executives in many Sensex
companies hold a large amount of shares that they acquired, or
were allotted to them, at very low valuations,” Choksey said.
“Now that the shares are reaching record highs, they are
choosing to cash out.”  The stakes are being reduced as Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  struggles to revive economic growth. Opposition protests
over alleged graft scandals have disrupted parliament, stalling
bills to ease tax rules and open up more sectors to foreigners.
Policy changes will slow after September as political parties
prepare for elections due in 2014, according to Nomura Holdings
Inc.  “Insider selling could also reflect concerns about the
outlook for the Indian economy and policy uncertainty in the
near term,” Prudential International’s Praveen said.  India’s  gross domestic product  grew a decade-low 5 percent
in the year ended March, below the 10-year average of about 8
percent, official data showed May 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  