-- House Passes Bill to Limit CFTC’s Cross-Border Swaps Authority
-- B y   D a v e   M i c h a e l s
-- 2013-06-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/bill-to-limit-cftc-cross-border-authority-faces-u-s-house-vote.html
House lawmakers passed legislation
yesterday that would curb the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission’s authority to oversee the $633 trillion global swaps
market.  The bipartisan bill’s approval came as a majority of CFTC
commissioners have signaled they want to delay final action on
how new derivatives rules apply to foreign banks and the
overseas affiliates of U.S. banks and  hedge funds .  Chairman  Gary Gensler  insists the agency should take its
final vote on the guidance by July 12, when the current deadline
expires. While the bill is not expected to be introduced in the
Senate, the House vote could increase pressure on Gensler to
agree to a delay.  The legislation “will restore much-needed sanity to the
rulewriting of the extraterritorial application of U.S. swaps
regulation,” said Representative  Scott Garrett , a New Jersey
Republican who sponsored the bill.  The CFTC will decide how to press forward after the
Securities and Exchange Commission last month outlined a
different approach to regulating swaps that it oversees, which
hews closer to industry viewpoints. The House bill would exempt
foreign banks from CFTC rules if their home countries have
broadly similar regulations and would force the CFTC and SEC to
reconcile their approaches.  Democratic Votes  The House passed the bill 301 to 124, with 73 Democrats
voting for it. The legislation isn’t expected to be considered
by the Senate, Representative Jim Himes, a Connecticut Democrat
on the House Financial Services Committee, said April 25. Himes
voted for the bill, as did Representative  Collin Peterson  of
 Minnesota , the top Democrat on the committee that oversees the
agency.  The legislation “is intended to send a message that
Congress would like them to delay in order to achieve greater
harmonization in the approach to cross-border regulation with
the SEC,” said Annette L. Nazareth, a former SEC commissioner
and Washington-based partner at Davis Polk & Wardwell.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration said in a June 11
statement that it opposes the bill, adding that its passage
“would be premature and disruptive to the current and ongoing
implementation of the reforms” required by Dodd-Frank.  The international reach of CFTC swap-trading requirements
has been one of the most controversial elements of the Dodd-Frank Act. The CFTC became the predominant U.S. regulator of
swaps under the 2010 law, while the SEC was assigned to write
rules for equity and some credit-default swaps.  ‘Arbitrary’ Deadline  Banks are working under an exemption from the proposed
guidance that expires July 12 and have called for an additional
delay. CFTC Commissioners Mark Wetjen, a Democrat, and  Scott O’Malia , a Republican, have said July 12 is an “arbitrary”
deadline. Commissioner Jill Sommers, a Republican, says the
exemption should be extended at least another six months.  “I’m working hard at understanding how to finalize a
commission cross border policy but I’m worried because we’re
running out of time before the exemptive order expires,” Wetjen
said. “It is a little arbitrary we’re deciding it must expire
July 12. The whole reason for the original date was to match it
up with what the Europeans are doing.”  ‘P.O. Box’  Gensler said last week the guidance must be finished to
avoid banks and hedge funds skirting the rules by “setting up
shop in an offshore locale, even if it’s not much more than a
tropical island P.O. box.”  The European Union is seeking an agreement with the U.S.
that its banks can be exempted from the CFTC’s rules because it
says EU standards are equally rigorous. Overseas regulators have
called for the CFTC to broaden its use of such “substituted
compliance,” which was also incorporated into the SEC’s
proposed rule.  Proponents of tighter regulation of financial services
argue the House bill would defer oversight to jurisdictions
where regulators failed in the past to police risky derivatives
trades that helped fuel the financial crisis. Swaps dealers
 American International Group Inc. (AIG) , Bear Stearns Cos. and Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. booked their derivatives trades in
 London . All required bailouts or went bankrupt in 2008.  Foreign ‘Failure’  “This bill would require the CFTC and the SEC to pretend
that foreign regulators are doing their job, when the
indisputable record is nothing but failure,” said Dennis M. Kelleher, chief executive officer of Better Markets, a financial
regulation advocacy group. Kelleher urged the CFTC to implement
its approach by July 12.  Six Wall Street trade associations including the Securities
Industry and Financial Markets Association pressed the CFTC last
week to delay its guidance until the agency has reviewed all
correspondence submitted to the SEC about its cross-border swaps
proposal. The bank lobbyists said “premature” implementation
of the CFTC guidance risks creating fissures with European and
other overseas regulations.  “Failing to extend the exemptive order in the absence of
final cross-border guidance could increase uncertainty for
international market participants,” the lobbying groups wrote
in a June 6 letter to Gensler.  Supporters of the legislation say it seeks to fix a CFTC
approach that applies regulation more broadly than Congress
intended in the Dodd-Frank Act. The bill also would require the
CFTC to rewrite its cross-border guidance as formal rulemaking,
which would cause the commission to start over and give
stakeholders another opportunity to weigh in.  A federal judge on June 7 dismissed a suit brought by
Bloomberg LP, the parent company of  Bloomberg News , challenging
CFTC rules setting higher collateral standards for swaps than
comparable futures.  The bill is H.R. 1256.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  