-- Blackstone Gets Initial Pledges for Asia Real Estate Fund
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2013-06-12T21:49:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/blackstone-gets-initial-pledges-for-asia-real-estate-fund.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the world’s
biggest manager of alternative assets, has $1.5 billion of
capital commitments for its first Asian property fund, targeted
at $4 billion, according to a letter sent to investors.  Blackstone held a first close on the Asia real estate fund
on June 7, according to the letter sent yesterday. The New York-based company said it plans to begin investing the money
immediately. The firm will focus on  China ,  India , Australia and
Japan, a person with knowledge of its plans said in December.  The Asia-Pacific region’s economic growth and decline in
property values have attracted private-equity investors. In the
U.S., Blackstone has been the biggest buyer of commercial real
estate since prices bottomed more than three years ago. The
company last year completed the largest-ever private real estate
fund, with $13.3 billion of pledges.  There’s “a pretty sharp contrast” in growth in Asia
compared with  Europe  and the U.S.,  Jonathan Gray , Blackstone’s
global head of real estate, said at the firm’s May 3 investor
day. “And yet, there’s not a lot of capital.”  Blackstone Real Estate Partners Asia is the largest private
property fund being raised for the region, followed by the $1
billion Alpha Asia Macro Trends Fund II, according to Preqin, a
London-based research firm.  Christine Anderson , a spokeswoman for Blackstone, declined
to comment on the fundraising.  New Jersey  The New Jersey Division of Investment pledged $500 million
in the fund’s first close, said  Timothy Walsh , the director. The
commitment was driven by Blackstone’s record of returns,
attractive fees, Asia’s scarcity of investment capital relative
to the U.S., and the state’s desire to expand in Asian real
estate, he said.  “We have minimal exposure there,” he said in an e-mail.
The division oversees the state’s $75.6 billion pension fund.  “BREP Asia is by far the largest and best-established
Asia-Pacific investment manager with the widest geographic
presence among its competitors,” Walsh wrote in a March 15  memo 
to New Jersey’s State Investment Council recommending the
investment.  From 2010 to 2013, Blackstone invested about $1.46 billion
of equity in 15 Asia-Pacific transactions that are projected to
achieve a net return of 1.8 times invested capital, according to
the memo.  While the new pool will be Blackstone’s first real estate
fund devoted to Asia, the firm has been among the biggest buyers
of property in Australia and India, Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer  Stephen Schwarzman  said last year in  Hong Kong .  “The long-term direction in Asia, for the economies here,
is strongly up,” Schwarzman said.  At the end of last year, Blackstone purchased the Top Ryde
mall in Sydney in a  foreclosure sale  for 50 percent less than
its A$700 million ($665 million) construction cost, Gray said at
the investor day. The firm in 2010 took over management of more
than $2 billion of Asian real estate assets from Bank of America
Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  