-- BOE’s Haldane Says Main Stability Risk Is Disorderly Yield Jump
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2013-06-12T13:08:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/boe-s-haldane-says-main-stability-risk-is-disorderly-yield-jump.html
The Bank of England’s executive
director for financial stability,  Andrew Haldane , said the
biggest global risk is a jump in bond yields that might happen
for reasons beyond the unwinding of central-bank policy.  “If I were to single out what for me would be the biggest
risk to global financial stability right now, it would be a
disorderly reversion in government bond yields globally,” he
said in testimony to U.K. lawmakers in  London  today. “We’ve
seen shades of that over the last two to three weeks.”  U.S. Treasuries have had their longest losing streak in
four years since May 2 amid bets the  Federal Reserve  will cut
back on monetary stimulus. U.K. government bonds have also
weakened, with the yield on the 10-year gilt climbing to 2.16
percent from 1.61 percent.  People have tended to “overfixate” on signs of the end of
quantitative easing or forward guidance as the spark for a
pickup in yields, Haldane said. Other triggers include the
reversal of a “flight to safety” that’s pushed yields down in
recent years. The BOE’s Financial Policy Committee must assess
the impact and risks, he said.  “We have intentionally blown the biggest government bond
bubble in history,” Haldane said. “We’ve been vigilant to the
consequences of that bubble deflating more quickly than we might
otherwise have wanted. That’s a risk we as FPC need to be very
vigilant to.”  Haldane was testifying to Parliament’s Treasury Select
Committee on the reappointment of officials to the FPC. The
central-bank panel was created as part of the government’s
decision to restore banking regulation to the BOE and is charged
with monitoring broad risks to the financial system.  Options Restricted  Haldane also said the options the committee could propose
to boost the capital of  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and  Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  were restricted because they’re largely
government-owned. The Treasury had indicated it wasn’t prepared
to inject more state funds into the lenders, he said.  The FPC’s independence from the government “has not been
compromised,”  Donald Kohn , a member of the panel, told the
committee earlier today.  Britain’s lenders have been selling units and detailing
plans to bolster their businesses since the central bank
initially said in November it was concerned that they weren’t
holding enough capital.  Lloyds has sold a 35 percent stake in wealth manager St.
James’s Place Plc and is considering a sale of its Scottish
Widows Investment Partnership division. Edinburgh-based RBS said
in February it would sell a 25 percent stake in Citizens
Financial Group Inc., the U.S. consumer and commercial lender,
and would further shrink its investment bank.  Co-Op ‘Surprise’  The decision by Moody’s Investors Service to slash Co-Operative Bank Plc’s credit rating to junk status on May 9 was a
“surprise to almost everyone,” Haldane said, adding that
“more needs to be done” to stabilize the bank.  The Co-Operative Bank, based in Manchester, northern
 England , said last month that the six-step downgrade to Ba3/not
prime from A3/prime doesn’t mean it needs a government bailout.
Moody’s said the bank may require “external support” if real-estate losses escalate.  When asked to list other risks to the financial system,
Haldane said regulators and government should “take a close
look at the state of preparedness” of major banks to protect
against cyber-attacks in which their electronic payment systems
may be threatened.  The topic was raised at a meeting of senior risk-management
officials at major banks he attended six months ago, he said.  Bubble Risks  Lawmakers also questioned Haldane on his views on the
government’s “Help to Buy” mortgage-guarantee scheme and the
risks of creating a bubble in the housing market.  The program “does bear some watching” as the FPC must
“be vigilant to any signs of this or anything else causing
credit growth or  house prices  to begin moving away too rapidly
in a way that might imperil financial stability,” he said.
“We’re not there at the moment.”  The FPC has been charged with assessing when the plan
should end after three years, and officials should ensure that
it doesn’t remain in place forever, he said.  “ Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  were temporary schemes and 75
years later they were still in place and blowing the world up,”
Haldane said. “We need to have a safeguard against that, and
I’m happy to see the FPC be that safeguard.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Moshinsky at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  