-- Booz Allen Estimate Lowered by Susquehanna on Contract Risks
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s   a n d   N i c k   T a b o r e k
-- 2013-06-12T17:17:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/booz-allen-estimate-lowered-by-susquehanna-on-contract-risks.html
Intelligence agencies may freeze
certain  Booz Allen  Hamilton Holding Corp. projects while they
review its handling of classified information after an employee
revealed a secret U.S. electronic surveillance program,
according to Susquehanna Financial Group.  “There is real contract risk” for Booz Allen, majority
owned by the Washington-based private-equity firm  Carlyle Group
LP (CG) , Susquehanna analyst James Friedman said in a note today. He
dropped estimated earnings per share to $1.40 from $1.47 for the
current fiscal year.  Booz Allen, based in McLean,  Virginia , dropped 2.3 percent
to $16.76 at 12:54 p.m. in  New York  after earlier declining as
much as 3.7 percent.  The shares have fallen 6.9 percent since a former employee,
Edward Snowden, over the weekend said he had provided
journalists with secret documents describing U.S. surveillance
programs.  Booz Allen yesterday said it had fired Snowden, 29, whom it
employed as a technical assistant in  Hawaii .  The  company  received 23 percent, or $1.3 billion, of its
$5.76 billion in fiscal 2013 revenue from intelligence agencies,
according to a regulatory filing.  Friedman’s reduced estimate reflects the possibility that
contracts making up about 4 percent of the firm’s intelligence
revenue may be put on hold pending a review, according to the
note. The company will probably need to increase spending on
compliance-related controls, Friedman wrote.  Intelligence Agencies  He maintained his “negative” rating on the stock, a view
he’s held since September 2011.  The leak investigation “does not immediately affect the
‘BB’ corporate credit rating on the company,”  Standard & Poor’s 
said today in a statement.  William Loomis, an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in
Baltimore, said he doesn’t expect investigations into the leak
to cause major disruptions to Booz Allen’s intelligence work.  “When you’re looking at Booz’s intelligence business
overall, I think it’s pretty unlikely that it will have a
material effect,” he said in a phone interview.  James Fisher, a Booz Allen spokesman, declined to comment
on the Susquehanna report.  While the government can halt a contractor’s work at any
time, ordering a work stoppage because of the leak is
“extremely implausible,” said Dan Gordon, a former top
procurement official in President  Barack Obama ’s administration.  Suspension Unlikely  “Stopping work on a current contract is actually viewed as
more disruptive to the government,” Gordon, who is now a dean
at George Washington University Law School, said in a phone
interview. “The government ends up suffering when you stop work
on an ongoing project.”  U.S. officials could suspend Booz Allen from new awards,
though that punishment is also unlikely, Gordon said. Federal
contractors such as Booz Allen, the 13th biggest according to a
Bloomberg Government ranking, are adept at avoiding suspension,
he said.  “If it were to happen, I would expect it to be lifted very
quickly, because I would suspect Booz Allen and their lawyers
would be at the government’s doors banging and saying we want to
talk to you,” Gordon said. “They would say what they needed to
say and do what they needed to do to persuade the government to
lift the suspension.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Taborek in Washington at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  