-- Brain Can’t Text While Driving Even With Hands Free: AAA
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2013-06-12T14:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/brain-can-t-text-while-driving-even-with-hands-free-aaa.html
Using voice text messaging, included
in systems such as  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s Sync and  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203) ’s Entune, is more distracting to drivers than making calls
with handheld mobile phones, a study by AAA found.  Texting a friend verbally while behind the wheel caused a
“large” amount of mental distraction compared with
“moderate/significant” for holding a phone conversation or
talking with a passenger and “small” when listening to music
or an audio book, the AAA Foundation for Traffic Safety found in
a report released today.  Automakers have promoted voice-based messaging as a safer
alternative to taking hands off the wheel to place a call and
talk on a handheld phone. About 9 million infotainment systems
will be shipped this year in cars sold worldwide, with that
number projected to rise to more than 62 million by 2018,
according to a March  report  by London-based  ABI Research .  “As we push towards these hands-free systems, we may be
solving one problem while creating another,” said Joel Cooper,
a University of  Utah  assistant research professor who worked on
the study. “Tread lightly. There’s a lot of rush to develop
these systems.”  The findings from the largest U.S. motorist group bolster
National Transportation Safety Board Chairman  Deborah Hersman ’s
call to ban all phone conversations behind the wheel, even with
hands-free devices.  DOT Review  Outgoing Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood has asked
drivers to put their phones in the glove box while driving and
declined to criticize systems like Sync and  Entune , which allow
drivers to speak their commands.  “The agency is aware of the new research AAA released
today and will review its findings,” the  National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration , part of the Transportation
Department, said today in an e-mailed statement. “NHTSA
continues to work closely with our safety partners to capture
the full safety impact distraction poses to motorists and all
road users.”  LaHood’s department, in non-binding guidelines issued April
23, asked automakers to bar Internet browsing and the use of
social-media sites such as Twitter Inc. and Facebook Inc.
through in-vehicle infotainment systems when a vehicle is
moving.  Automakers were also urged to design navigation and other
screen-based systems so that drivers don’t need to take their
eyes off the road for more than two seconds to select an option,
or for a total of 12 seconds to complete an entire task such as
entering an address.  Measuring Brainwaves  The study used drivers, mostly in their 20s and 30s, to do
things including listening to a radio and talking on a handheld
phone.  Participants, all of whom had good driving records, did the
tasks first in a lab, then in a driving simulator and finally in
a residential area while driving. Researchers measured reaction
time and brainwave activity with caps secured to drivers’ heads
to see what was the most distracting.  For the on-the-road portion, participants drove a Subaru
Outback outfitted with cameras, computers and a researcher in
the back seat to measure their responses. The vehicle had a
 Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd. (005930)  phone with a hands-free device
rather than an in-vehicle system.  Researchers controlled a possible variable, without telling
participants, by having the person receiving the messages do the
text conversion manually. The intent was to eliminate any faults
in voice recognition software so the degree of distraction
wasn’t exaggerated by the driver having to make corrections.  Wrong Direction  Florida  last month became the 41st U.S. state to ban
handheld texting while driving. States, which set and enforce
driving laws rather than the federal government, haven’t
addressed distraction caused by voice controls, nor have U.S.
regulators asked them to. The NTSB recommends safety changes
while having no regulatory power.  LaHood’s department, in non-binding guidelines issued April
23, asked automakers to bar Internet browsing and the use of
social-media sites such as Twitter Inc. and  Facebook Inc. (FB) 
through in-vehicle infotainment systems when a vehicle is
moving.  Automakers were also urged to design navigation and other
screen-based systems so that drivers don’t need to take their
eyes off the road for more than two seconds to select an option,
or for a total of 12 seconds to complete an entire task such as
entering an address.  Earlier Study  Jacob Nelson, AAA’s director of traffic safety advocacy and
research, said the guidelines don’t address the distraction of
taking one’s mind off driving.  “We would be hopeful that moving forward, you will hear
very different responses out of DOT,” Nelson said.  The AAA study follows a Transportation Department-funded
study, released in April, that found hands-free texting
distracted drivers as much as messaging with a handheld device.  Participants in the study by the  Texas A&M Transportation
Institute  drove on a closed course while typing  text messages 
with their hands and sending them hands-free using  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
Siri and Vlingo system on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android phones.  Both methods slowed driver reaction times almost two times
what they’d be when not texting, the study found, with drivers
taking longer to complete a text when speaking than when
manually typing.  Automakers have said that limiting in-vehicle infotainment
systems, some of which allow drivers to buy movie tickets and
make a dinner reservation, would lead drivers back to using
handheld devices.  AAA is asking automakers and electronics suppliers to work
with it on the next phase of research to parse the first study’s
voice-to-text technology findings and assess distractions of
voice-command systems, said Peter Kissinger, chief executive
officer of the AAA foundation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  