-- Brazil Scraps Tax on Currency Derivatives to Stem Real Drop
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r   a n d   M a r i a   L u i z a   R a b e l l o
-- 2013-06-12T23:12:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/brazil-eliminates-tax-on-currency-derivatives-to-stem-real-drop.html
Brazil ’s government eliminated a tax
on currency derivatives in a bid to arrest the decline of the
real that is at a four-year low.  The 1 percent tax that will be removed tomorrow was applied
on bets against the dollar in the country’s futures market in a
bid to weaken the Brazilian currency. The so-called IOF tax was
implemented in July 2011.  “With the dollar strengthening, it doesn’t make sense to
keep this obstacle in place,” Finance Minister Guido Mantega
told reporters in Brasilia today. “We are reducing the IOF so
there will be greater supply of the dollar in the futures
market.”  As a means to stem the real’s decline, Brazil is unwinding
capital controls that it began putting in place in 2010 to
defend itself from policies Mantega then characterized as a
“currency war.” The dollar has strengthened worldwide amid
speculation the U.S. Federal Reserve dial back its bond-buying
program.  “I don’t know if this is enough to regain the FX market’s
trust, because they change the rules of the game all the time,”
 Andre Perfeito , chief economist at Gradual Investimentos, said
by phone from Sao Paulo after today’s announcement. “They cut
the IOF now, but if winds change in the near-future they might
put it back.  But it is a good step in the right direction.”  A weaker real threatens to derail Brazil’s efforts to tame
inflation that is running at the top of the 2.5 percent to 6.5
percent target range. Last week, the government eliminated a tax
on foreign purchases of bonds.  Brazil’s real today closed at a four-year low of 2.1564 per
U.S. dollar. The currency has lost 5 percent over the last three
weeks, making it the second-worst performer against the dollar
of 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Mantega announced on June 4 the elimination of a 6 percent
tax on foreign investment in bonds purchased in the Brazilian
market. Still the real continued to slide, and on June 10 and
June 11 the government offered foreign exchange swap contracts
worth $3.86 billion in four auctions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Biller in Rio de Janeiro at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Luiza Rabello in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mrabello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  