-- Brevan Howard Currency Trader Luke Ding Said to Leave Hedge Fund
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2013-06-12T16:52:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/brevan-howard-currency-trader-luke-ding-said-to-leave-hedge-fund.html
Luke Ding, who managed a currency
hedge fund at Brevan Howard Asset Management LLP, is leaving the
firm, according to a person with knowledge of the matter.  Brevan will speak with investors before deciding whether to
shut down Ding’s $570 million  Macro FX fund , said the person who
asked not to be identified because the information isn’t public.
Ding didn’t immediately return a telephone call and e-mail
seeking comment.  The currency fund has risen 4.8 percent since it started
trading in October 2009, trailing the 19.8 percent gain for
 hedge funds  on average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
and Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc.  The assets in Ding’s hedge fund have fallen in the past 12
months as a July 2012 marketing document obtained by Bloomberg
News showed he managed $1 billion at the time. London-based
Brevan Howard is Europe’s second-biggest hedge fund firm with
$40.1 billion of assets.  Anthony Payne, a spokesman for  Brevan Howard , declined to
comment on Ding’s departure. His leaving was reported earlier by
Financial News.  Other traders have left Brevan Howard this month as part of
the firm’s twice-a-year review of their performance, the person
said. The firm employs about 80 traders in total.  The Brevan Howard Master fund, the company’s biggest with
$27.9 billion of assets, has gained 4.3 percent this year
through June 7, the person said. The fund, which seeks to profit
from broad economic trends by trading currencies, bonds,
interest rates and commodities, has produced an average annual
gain of about 12 percent since it started trading in 2003.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in 東京 at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  