-- Budget Deficit in U.S. Widened in May as Spending Increases 10%
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2013-06-12T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/budget-deficit-in-u-s-widened-in-may-as-spending-increases-10-.html
The U.S.  budget deficit  widened in
May from a year earlier on a 10 percent increase in spending,
the Treasury Department said.  Outlays exceeded receipts by $138.7 billion last month
compared with a $124.6 billion shortfall in May 2012, the
Treasury said today in Washington. The gap was in line with the
$139 billion median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 23
economists.  The Congressional Budget Office last week said that
spending in May would’ve been $4 billion less than a year
earlier were it not for shifts in the timing of payments
compared with May 2012. The U.S.’s AA+ credit-rating outlook was
increased this week to stable from negative by Standard & Poor’s
based on receding fiscal risks, less than two years after the
company stripped the world’s largest economy of its top ranking.  “The fiscal picture has a very long way to go before it is
on a sustainable path,” said Thomas Simons, a government-debt
economist in New York at Jefferies LLC. Still, “the effect of
the S&P ratings outlook revision takes some of the heat off
Congress in the near term to address the deficit.”  Today’s report showed revenue rose 9.1 percent in May from
the same month a year earlier, to $197.2 billion. Spending
totaled $336 billion compared with $305 billion a year earlier,
it showed.  For the first eight months of the 2013 financial year that
began Oct. 1, the nation’s deficit shrank to $626.3 billion
compared with a $844.5 billion shortfall over the same period
from a year before.  Deficit Outlook  Stronger-than-forecast economic growth that’s buoying tax
revenue and remittances from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have
spurred the Congressional Budget Office to reduce its U.S.
deficit forecasts, S&P said.  The CBO announced May 14 that the budget deficit will
shrink this fiscal year to $642 billion, or 4 percent of gross
domestic product. That would be the narrowest since 2008, and
less than half 2009’s record $1.4 trillion shortfall.  The brighter outlook will help postpone the deadline this
year for raising the government’s debt ceiling, and may ease
demands from some lawmakers for tough budget cuts. Still, while
government spending cuts, known as sequestration, have helped
narrow deficits, it may slow growth and prevent companies from
adding workers.  U.S. Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew said May 31 he is
suspending reinvestment of the Government Securities Investment
Fund of the Federal Employees’ Retirement System, one of the
measures he can use to avoid exceeding the nation’s $16.7
trillion debt limit.  Lew said last month that the Treasury’s extraordinary
measures and a one-time payment from Fannie Mae will allow the
U.S. to stay under the debt limit at least until September.
Yesterday, the CBO reiterated an estimate it made in May that
the Treasury will run out of ways to stay under the ceiling by
October or November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Louis in  Washington  at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  