-- Bulgarian Prosecutors Indict Former Deputy Premier Tsvetanov
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2013-06-12T12:34:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/bulgarian-prosecutors-indict-former-deputy-premier-tsvetanov.html
Bulgarian prosecutors indicted
former Deputy Prime Minister Tsvetan Tsvetanov after questioning
him over his involvement in allegedly illegal wire-tapping
operations.  Tsvetanov, who also served as interior minister in the
Cabinet of ex-Prime Minister Boyko Borissov from July 2009 to
February 2013, was charged today, his lawyer Menko Menkov told
reporters in the capital Sofia, without specifying the charge.
The office of the Chief Prosecutor also declined to say what the
specific charge was, when contacted by phone by Bloomberg today.  “My defendant is innocent,” Menkov told reporters. “The
charge raised against my defendant has nothing to do with
illegal audio surveillance, which leads me to believe it is done
just to have some kind of a charge raised. We were not given any
of the pre-trial materials including any evidence. Our rights
are being violated.”  The European Union has repeatedly criticized  Bulgaria  for
an inefficient fight against corruption and organized crime,
urging the Balkan country to investigate graft among senior
government officials. Several ministers of previous
administrations were charged with abuse of power in the past
four years and were acquitted.  Borissov’s government resigned amid protests against
corruption and high utility bills and failed to win an outright
majority in May 12 early elections, which opened the way for the
second-place party, the Socialists, to form a coalition with the
ethnic Turk Movement for Rights and Freedoms.  Ceded Immunity  Tsvetanov, who is now Borissov’s deputy as leader of the
Gerb parliamentary group, was questioned by prosecutors and
investigators several times during the past two months.  He gave up his parliamentary immunity on May 21 to allow an
investigation of his alleged involvement in wiretapping a
possible conversation between Borissov, former Sofia City
Prosecutor Nikolai Kokinov and former Agriculture Minister
Miroslav Naidenov on interference with an abuse-of-power probe
against Naidenov.  The prosecution imposed a restriction on Tsvetanov, banning
him from traveling, according to Menkov.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  