-- California Energy-Storage Plan May Require $3 Billion Investment
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2013-06-12T19:20:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/california-energy-storage-plan-may-require-3-billion-investment.html
Energy companies may invest as much
as $3 billion on power-storage systems in  California  to
facilitate wider use of renewable energy.  Utilities owned by  PG&E Corp. (PCG) ,  Sempra Energy (SRE)  and  Edison
International (EIX)  would be required to procure 1,325 megawatts of
storage capacity by 2020 under a June 10  proposal  from the
California Public Utilities Commission.  California’s utilities are required to provide by 2020 a
third of their power from renewable sources like wind and
sunlight that can’t generate electricity constantly. Systems
that retain some of the energy will make it easier to integrate
intermittent technologies, said Praveen Kathpal, vice president
of market and regulatory affairs at AES Corp.’s storage unit.  “This ruling recognizes that storage is going to be a
valuable component of California’s supply mix,” Kathpal said in
a phone interview yesterday. He estimated that 1,325 megawatts
of storage may require about $1 billion to $3 billion in
investment.  Public comments on the proposal will be accepted next month
and the commission is expected to issue its final ruling by
October, as required under a 2010 law.  The 1,325-megawatt target “is probably comparable to
what’s installed globally right now,” Janice Lin, executive
director of the California  Energy Storage  Alliance, an advocacy
group, said yesterday by telephone.  That would “approximately double, or more, the amount of
grid-connected energy storage,” excluding pumped-hydro and
conventional underground compressed-air facilities, she said.
“It’s significant in terms of industry growth.”  Auction Program  Pacific Gas & Electric Co., San Diego Gas & Electric Co.
and Southern California Edison Co. would procure energy-storage
systems through reverse auctions that will start in June 2014
and be held biannually in 2016, 2018 and 2020, according to the
filing. The companies are all reviewing the proposal, according
to e-mailed responses from spokespeople.  The proposal is “setting a precedent” that may help
utilities get approval for storage as part of regular rate
proceedings, Philippe Bouchard, business development manager at
New York-based Eos Energy Storage LLC, said in an interview.
“It is nice to see them thinking about how energy storage can
be incorporated into the utilities’ typical way of doing
business.”  Storage systems based on lithium-batteries, which retain
electricity, and molten salt, which holds heat that’s used to
run a turbine to produce energy, may help utilities meet the
requirements, said Bloomberg New Energy Finance analyst Brian Warshay.  “There are several technologies ready to meet the
challenge, with proven pilots in operation in California,” he
said.  Current Projects  Projects that are currently planned, approved or in
development would be eligible to meet the targets, according to
the filing.  That includes a 50-megawatt Edison International program in
the Los Angeles area that was authorized in February and the
company’s  8-megawatt project  at a wind farm near Tehachapi that
will store power for as long as four hours.  PG&E has agreed to buy power from SolarReserve LLC’s Rice
project that includes molten salt storage. About 44.6 megawatts
of storage capacity was approved in May as part of SDG&E’s
general rate case, the commission said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  