-- Cameron Backs Conservative Lawmakers’ EU Referendum Campaign
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-06-12T11:22:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/cameron-backs-conservative-lawmakers-eu-referendum-campaign.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  said he
supports a campaign from his Conservative lawmakers to put
pressure on other U.K. political parties to back a bill allowing
a referendum on the nation’s membership of the European Union.  Cameron cannot introduce government legislation on an EU
referendum because his Liberal Democrat coalition partners
oppose it. Instead, the Tories have published a draft bill
to guarantee a vote by end-2017. The so-called private member’s
bill will be steered through Parliament by Tory lawmaker James
Wharton, with the entire party under orders to back it.  The Tories today launched a campaign website called
 letbritaindecide.com , designed to rally support for Wharton’s
bill ahead of a debate on July 5. To succeed it would require
the support of lawmakers from other parties as Cameron cannot
command a majority in Parliament. The Tories say this bill will
highlight where the opposition  Labour Party  and the Liberal
Democrats stand on the question.  “In this party we are committed to a renegotiation and an
in-out referendum before the end of 2017,” Cameron said in his
weekly question-and-answer session in Parliament today. “But
there has been a staggering silence from the party opposite.
Apparently half of the Shadow Cabinet support a referendum and
the other half don’t. Well, they will have their chance. They
can turn up and vote for a referendum.”  Cameron has promised a renegotiation of the U.K.’s
membership of the EU, followed by popular vote on whether to
stay in the bloc, if his party wins the 2015 general election
outright.  Cameron meets leaders from Group of Eight nations next week
to discuss, among other matters, a trading partnership between
the EU and the U.S. On June 10, Cameron told business leaders in
 London  that Britain’s membership of the EU is good for business
and allows the government to help set rules on trade and tax.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  