-- Camp Warns Against Cap on Charitable Break in Tax Rewrite
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-06-12T19:59:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/camp-warns-against-cap-on-charitable-break-in-tax-rewrite.html
Deductions for charitable giving
shouldn’t be capped, the top Republican tax writer in the  House
of Representatives  said.  Dave Camp , a Michigan Republican, in a speech today
objected to a proposal by President  Barack Obama  to limit the
benefit for tax breaks, including charitable contributions, for
those in marginal tax brackets exceeding 28 percent.  “That is probably not something I think is the
direction,” said Camp, chairman of the House Ways and Means
Committee.  He spoke at a tax summit in  Washington  sponsored by Baker &
Hostetler LLP, the Federal Policy Group and the Yale Club.  Camp expressed openness to an idea to let U.S. taxpayers
make charitable contributions through the April 15 filing date
that would apply to taxes on their prior year’s income. For
example, under that approach, those filing their 2015 taxes
would have until April 15, 2016, to make contributions they
could deduct from their 2015 income.  He also didn’t rule out reductions in the charitable
deduction to help pay for tax-rate cuts. Instead, he emphasized
the importance of economic growth that would give people more
income that they can give away.  “As you track charitable contributions, they really don’t
track  tax policy ,” he said. “What they track is the strength
of the economy.”  Camp reiterated his goal of approving a tax-code revision
in his committee by year’s end. Camp said he has begun
individual meetings with all members of his committee.  Representative Ron Kind, a Wisconsin Democrat, said he met
with Camp last week and urged him to offer a proposal that
members could analyze.  “We need a plan,” he said. “We need something on
paper.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  