-- Camp Says IRS Targeting Didn’t Start in Cincinnati Office
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-06-12T15:20:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/camp-says-irs-targeting-didn-t-start-in-cincinnati-office.html
The Internal Revenue Service’s
scrutiny of small-government groups didn’t begin in the
Cincinnati office that examines applications for tax-exempt
status, said Representative  Dave Camp , chairman of the House
Ways and Means Committee.  “We know it didn’t originate in Cincinnati,” Camp, a
Michigan Republican, told reporters today in Washington, citing
interviews that committee staff members conducted with IRS
employees.  Camp’s comments contradict excerpts of interviews released
by Representative  Elijah Cummings  of Maryland, the top Democrat
on the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee. Cummings
has cited the comments of a self-declared “conservative
Republican” IRS manager in Cincinnati, who said one of his
employees identified the first Tea Party case and flagged it for
further attention.  At the same time, those transcripts and others released by
Republican Representative  Darrell Issa  of California, chairman
of the oversight committee, show that IRS lawyers in Washington
were involved soon afterward.  The effort was concentrated on  Tea Party  groups in the
beginning, according to transcripts reviewed last week by
 Bloomberg News . In addition to putting Democratic-leaning
organizations’ applications back in the general pile, the IRS
didn’t give extra scrutiny to groups identified as conservative.  ‘More Narrow’  “It was more narrow than that,” said Elizabeth Hofacre,
who handled the first batch of cases, according to an interview
transcript. “It was Tea Party.”  The initial scrutiny of Tea Party groups eventually became
a broader effort that delayed the applications of many
politically oriented nonprofit groups and subjected them to what
the IRS later deemed inappropriate questions.  The criteria was broadened in 2011 and 2012 when the IRS
looked at groups based on other criteria, such as whether they
focused on  government spending  and debt.  The controversy has prompted six congressional inquiries
and a criminal probe by the  Justice Department . At least four
IRS executives have left their jobs.  Hofacre said in the interview with congressional
investigators that her actions were guided by IRS lawyers in
Washington, who she said were slow to approve questions to be
sent to groups that would allow her to process applications.  “You are getting calls from irate taxpayers,” said
Hofacre, who has worked for the IRS since 1999. “And I see
their point. Even if a decision isn’t favorable, they deserve
some kind of treatment and they deserve, you know, timeliness.”  Camp, who is also looking at audits of donors and
disclosures of confidential information, said his committee’s
investigation is far from over.  “We’re not anywhere near being able to jump to
conclusions,” Camp said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  