-- Canada Heavy Oil Gains as Pipeline Space Freed by Syncrude Work
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2013-06-12T20:03:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/canada-heavy-oil-gains-as-pipeline-space-freed-by-syncrude-work.html
Canadian heavy  crude oil 
strengthened on the  spot market  as an accelerated maintenance
schedule for an oil-sands plant freed space on export pipelines.  The 350,000-barrel-a-day Syncrude  upgrader  in Alberta began
a 50-day maintenance turnaround on a coker earlier than expected
this week. Light  oil prices  surged on June 10 after the work
schedule was released. Heavy oils have continued to climb as the
work means there will be less competition for pipeline space.  Western Canada Select heavy oil strengthened for a ninth
day, rising against U.S. benchmark West Texas Intermediate by 65
cents a barrel to a $9.35 discount, according to Calgary oil
broker Net Energy Inc. It was the narrowest discount for WCS
this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The discount
was $41.50 on Jan. 14.  The Syncrude work was moved up from the second half of the
year after a malfunction at a boiler in May cut the plant’s
output,  Canadian Oil Sands Ltd. (COS) , the project’s largest owner,
said in a June 10 statement.  Syncrude oil weakened by 25 cents to a $12.50 premium to
WTI, Net Energy said. The grade surged $8.25 a barrel on June 10
after the plant work was announced.  Both grades have gained on the expectation of falling U.S.
crude supplies and rising demand as refineries increase output
for the summer driving season, which runs from the last weekend
in May until the Labor Day weekend in early September.  Exxon Mobil (XOM) ’s Joliet, Illinois, refinery is expected to
restart this month after maintenance that began in mid-April.  BP
Plc (BP/) ’s Whiting, Indiana, plant is said to be planning to finish
converting a crude unit to process heavy crude this month as
well. The Joliet plant can process 238,000 barrels a day and
Whiting 420,000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  