-- CBOE Fined, South African Mining, Bank Losses: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-06-12T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/cboe-fined-south-african-mining-bank-losses-compliance.html
Federal regulators fined the  Chicago
Board Options Exchange (CBOE)  $6 million, saying its staff interfered
with its three-year investigation of short-selling at a member
firm in an unprecedented breakdown of trading supervision.  The settlement, which calls for immediate remedial actions,
is the first ever assessed by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission for violations related to regulatory oversight,
according to a statement. On June 7, an administrative law judge
ruled that CBOE member OptionsXpress Inc., a unit of  Charles
Schwab Corp. (SCHW) , helped facilitate sham transactions that violated
U.S. securities laws known as Regulation SHO.  While actions against traders and investors are common at
the SEC, exchanges enjoy legal protections in their capacity of
self-regulatory organizations. In the CBOE’s case, oversight
suffered when it transferred responsibility for Regulation SHO
enforcement from one department to another in 2008, the SEC
wrote.  During the investigation of OptionsXpress, it became
apparent that CBOE staff didn’t know enough about the law to
adequately enforce it, according to the SEC statement. Not only
did they fail to detect violations, they “took misguided and
unprecedented steps” to assist the firm that was under
investigation.  As part of its response to the SEC inquiry, the CBOE said
in January it planned to exclude trading industry directors from
its board, bringing its governance in line with other exchange
operators.  “This settlement marks a significant step in putting the
SEC matter behind us,” CBOE said in an e-mailed statement.
“All actions either required or recommended by the SEC, as well
as those resulting from our rigorous self-review, have been or
are now being implemented.”  Gail Osten, a spokeswoman for the Chicago-based market
operator, declined to comment beyond the statement. CBOE said in
a filing in February that it expected to pay as much as $10
million to settle the SEC’s investigation.  OptionsXpress says it did nothing wrong. Stephen
Senderowitz, a lawyer representing OptionsXpress, yesterday
disputed the interpretation of events in the June 7 ruling by
Brenda P. Murray, the chief administrative judge for the SEC. He
said OptionsXpress is reviewing the decision for the purposes of
an appeal.  “We believe the evidence at trial demonstrated that
OptionsXpress at all times acted consistent with all regulations
and bought in the shorts and delivered securities as required,”
Senderowitz said in an e-mailed statement. “The firm was in
touch with regulators regarding the transactions, no one was
harmed, and the transactions were neither novel nor exotic.”  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  South African Law Changes to Raise Miners’ Costs, Law Firm Says  Changes to  South Africa ’s mining laws are likely to raise
regulatory costs after amendments came into force last week, a
 law firm  said.  The Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Amendment
Act, or MPRDA, became effective June 7 after being signed into
law by President  Jacob Zuma .  South Africa, with the largest known reserves of platinum
and chrome, as well as gold, iron and diamonds, is bringing in
changes even as it plans a further amendment bill this year.
Higher expenses will further squeeze profits at mining companies
already contending with above-inflation cost increases for wages
and energy, while labor disputes and slumping commodity prices
have forced some producers to suspend shafts or cut jobs.  The changes stipulate that the mines minister must refuse
an application for prospecting rights should those rights
concentrate resources under the control of one company,
restricting “equitable access,” according to the law firm,
which said the vague phrasing leaves the rule open to
interpretation.  The changes also allow the minister to impose stricter
conditions on mining rights where the land is occupied, which
may go beyond the requirements of the Mining Charter.  The alterations may be superseded by an amendment bill
after it’s introduced to parliament later in June.  EU Races to Meet End-June Deadline on Bank Creditor-Loss Rules  European Union finance ministers will grapple next week
over how far the bloc should standardize its approach to writing
down failing  banks’  creditors as they seek agreement on a
blueprint to end state bailouts.  While there is a “broad measure of agreement” on the
draft creditor-loss rules, governments have just over a week to
resolve their differences before the ministers convene in
Luxembourg on June 21, according to an EU document prepared for
the meeting and obtained by  Bloomberg News .  Nations are divided over how much flexibility regulators
should be given to exempt some creditors from writedowns,
according to the document prepared by Ireland, which holds the
EU’s rotating presidency. Some governments contend that uniform
rules are needed while others want nations to have more
discretion, the document shows.  The EU’s 27 governments are racing to meet an end-June
deadline to agree on the plans, which leaders have said will be
a first step toward more ambitious moves to centralize  bank 
interventions in the 17-nation euro area.  Under draft plans presented last year by  Michel Barnier ,
the EU’s financial services chief, losses at a crisis-hit bank
would be absorbed first by wiping out its capital, then writing
down unsecured debt holders in order of seniority.  Nations would also be required to build up standing funds,
financed with bank levies, which would be tapped to cover
restructuring costs at failed lenders. Compromise texts drawn up
by Ireland would give regulators the power to exempt derivatives
from writedowns, if including them would cause more harm than
good.  The plans must be approved by governments and by the
European Parliament before they take effect.  For more, click here.  Weidmann Says OMT Blurs Boundary Between Monetary, Fiscal Policy  The  European Central Bank ’s OMT program blurs the boundary
between monetary and fiscal policy, Bundesbank President Jens
Weidmann said at a hearing of the Federal Constitutional Court
in Karlsruhe.  Outright Monetary Transactions, or OMT, is a program of the
central bank allowing it to make outright transactions in the
secondary sovereign bond markets, according to the bank’s
website.  “I see significant stability problems in the Eurosystem’s
government-bond purchase programs, as well as in other crisis
measures, that blur the boundary between European monetary
policy and the fiscal policy of individual nation states,”
Weidmann said.  As hearings on the OMT at  Germany ’s top court began
yesterday, the Stoxx Europe 600 Index fell 1.2 percent to 291.74
at the close of trading and the benchmark gauge earlier sank as
much as 2.1 percent, reaching a seven-week low.  Peter Buergler, a trader at Luzerner Kantonalbank AG in
Lucerne,  Switzerland , said some of the uncertainty in the market
is “still connected to the fear of stimulus being reduced by
the  Federal Reserve , and some of it is connected to the federal
court hearings in Germany.”  The ECB’s OMT program violates European laws and the
constitutional principle of democracy, Dietrich Murswiek, a
lawyer for lawmaker Peter Gauweiler, told the Federal
Constitutional Court in Karlsruhe yesterday. The court is
reviewing seven cases filed over the OMT and the European
Stability Mechanism at a two-day hearing.  The as-yet-unused OMT foresees potentially unlimited
purchases of bonds of debt-stricken countries that sign up to
adjustment programs. German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble 
defended the government’s policies, saying that Germany itself
insisted on giving the ECB independence and “needs to be
respected by the court.”  The plaintiffs include opposition political party Die Linke
and political group Mehr Demokratie e.V., German for “More
Democracy.”  Courts  Ex-WellCare CEO Found Guilty in $40 Million Medicaid Scheme  WellCare Health Plans Inc. (WCG) ’s former Chief Executive Officer
Todd Farha, 45, and Chief Financial Officer Paul Behrens, 51,
were each found guilty of two counts of health-care fraud by a
jury in Tampa,  Florida , June 10.  Behrens was also found guilty of two counts of making false
statements. The convictions were announced in a statement by the
U.S. Justice Department.  The executives were charged in March 2011 with devising a
scheme to defraud the Florida Medicaid program and making false,
fraudulent statements on expenses for behavioral health-care
services.  From 2003 through 2007, Tampa-based WellCare failed to pay
the state $40 million in refunds, prosecutors said. A whistle-blower at the company told the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation
about the plot. WellCare has paid out at least $427 million in
settlements to government agencies and shareholders since 2007.  “The company acted swiftly in October 2007 upon learning
of the wrongdoing and separated the individuals involved,” Jack
Maurer, a spokesman for WellCare, said in an e-mailed statement.
“Over the past five years we have cooperated fully with state
and federal authorities in their investigations, and resolved
all of the issues that directly involved the company.”  WellCare sued its former executives and that action was
stayed pending the outcome of the criminal trial, Maurer said.  “We have made significant changes to the governance of our
company to help ensure that this never happens again,” he said.  The case is U.S. v. Farha, 11-cr-00115, U.S. District
Court, Middle District of Florida (Tampa).  Chemical Makers Lose Court Challenge to Train Safety Rules  Chemical makers failed to show any harm from a rule
boosting safety requirements for shipping dangerous substances
by rail, a U.S. appeals court said, throwing out a lawsuit
challenging the 2012 regulation.  The Arlington, Virginia-base  Chlorine Institute  argued that
the Federal Railroad Administration rule would constrain or
eliminate chemical makers’ ability to ship products by rail.  Judge Karen LeCraft Henderson, writing for a three-judge
panel of the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  Washington , found any
impact described by the chemical makers to be “at most --
speculative.”  The Chlorine Institute also didn’t argue that any carrier
actually diminished any individual member’s shipping ability,
“only that it could do so,” Henderson wrote.  Frank Reiner, president of the institute, said the group
was reviewing the decision and had no immediate comment.  The case is Chlorine Institute Inc. v. Federal Railroad
Administration, 12-1298, U.S. Court of Appeals for the  District
of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New York  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  