-- Centrica Said Among Bidders for Ireland’s Bord Gais Energy Unit
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2013-06-12T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/centrica-said-among-bidders-for-ireland-s-bord-gais-energy-unit.html
Centrica Plc (CNA) , the U.K’s largest home
power company, and  Tenaga Nasional Bhd (TNB) , Malaysia’s biggest
energy group, filed bids for the retail and power generation
unit of state-owned gas company Bord Gais Eireann, people with
knowledge of the matter said.  SSE Plc  also planned to submit a bid, said a person
familiar with the matter, who asked not to be identified because
the matter is private, speaking before the 5 p.m. bid deadline
in Dublin yesterday. The bids are non-binding.  “In line with expectations, interest in the company is
strong,” Bord Gais said in an e-mailed statement. The sale
process is expected to conclude by the end of the year, the
Cork-based company said.  Bord Gais and its advisers,  RBC Capital Markets , may
eliminate some bidders before calling second-round offers,
people with knowledge of the matter said. Officials from
Centrica and SSE declined to comment. Tenaga Chief Executive
Officer Azman Mohd couldn’t be immediately reached for comment
by phone, as it’s after working hours in  Kuala Lumpur .  Ireland is selling the Bord Gais Energy division as part of
an accord stemming from its 67.5 billion-euro ($89.6 billion)
international bailout in 2010. The business may be valued at as
much as 1.4 billion euros ($1.9 billion), including debt, two
people familiar with the sale said May 28.  Viridian Looks  Viridian Group Ltd., Northern Ireland’s largest energy
supplier, was also lining up a bid, which may result in its
taking on a partner, according to a person briefed on the
matter, before the deadline.  Viridian is owned by Bahrain-based investment firm Arcapita
Bank BSC, which said June 10 that it will sell its investments
“on a coordinated basis designed to maximize value” as it
seeks to emerge from Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in the
U.S.  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA, France’s largest utility by market value, and
Germany’s  E.ON SE (EOAN)  may bid for the business, the Sunday Business
Post reported March 17. Keppel Corp., the world’s biggest oil-rig maker, based in Singapore, is also interested in the
company, the same newspaper reported May 19.  Blackstone Group LP has also received information
circulated to potential bidders,  the Irish Times  said on May 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  