-- Chevron Phillips Looks at New Middle East Chemical Plant
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-06-12T14:20:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/chevron-phillips-looks-at-new-middle-east-chemical-plant.html
Chevron Phillips Chemical Co. , the
petrochemical venture of U.S. oil producer  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and
refiner  Phillips 66 (PSX) , is exploring ways to expand in the  Middle
East , including building a new plant.  The U.S. partnership would consider setting up a site on
its own or in a joint venture, and the “entire” region is
under consideration, Benny Mermans, head of Europe and Africa at
Chevron Phillips Chemical’s international operations, said in an
interview at a petrochemical conference in Frankfurt.  The chemical company’s owners are “very supportive” of
growth plans, Mermans said. Woodlands, Texas-based Chevron
Phillips, also known as CPChem, is already spending about $5
billion on a new ethylene plant, or cracker, and two factories
making polyethylene in Baytown,  Texas , to take advantage of
cheap natural gas, which is used as a raw material as well as an
energy source.  “Look at our ownership structure,” Mermans said. “We
represent a fair share of their net income. By having that
support, by creating margins, that provides us with a lot of
legroom” for gaining resources for growth.  Chevron Phillips  has three joint ventures in the Saudi
Arabian industrial city of Jubail as well as partnerships in
Qatar in Messaieed and Ras Laffan, Melanie Samuelson, a
spokeswoman at the U.S. company, said in an e-mail.  Funding Sources  Expansion would be financed by the chemical business
itself, and Chevron Phillips would tap  capital markets  for
further cash should the need arise, Mermans said.  Availability of cheaper shale gas in the U.S., extracted by
the hydraulic fracturing process known as fracking, means that
Europe is being “squeezed on all sides,” Mermans said. The
company will focus on more specialty chemicals in the region and
is expanding a plant in Tessenderlo, Belgium, to add sulfur-based organic products.  In the U.S., Chevron Phillips is the first company in more
than a decade to build an ethylene plant, Mermans said. The
cracker, which will produce 1.5 million metric tons of the
gaseous chemical a year, is on schedule to start operations in
2017, with the company’s board expected to give final approval
in the third quarter, he said.  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) , the largest U.S. chemical maker by sales,
and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the biggest U.S. oil company, have said
they plan similar-sized ethylene plants in Texas.  “It’s a race,” Mermans said. “CPChem is well placed to
be first.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  