-- Chrysler Group Said to Seek Lower Rate on $2.95 Billion Loan
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   I d z e l i s
-- 2013-06-12T17:39:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/chrysler-group-said-to-seek-lower-rate-on-2-95-billion-loan.html
Chrysler Group LLC, the U.S.
automaker controlled by  Italy ’s  Fiat SpA (F) , is seeking to reduce
the rate on a $2.95 billion  term loan , according to a person
with knowledge of the transaction.  The company proposed paying interest at 3 percentage points
to 3.25 percentage points more than the London interbank offered
rate, with a 1 percent floor on the lending benchmark, said the
person, who asked not to be identified because the terms are
private. The debt, which matures in 2017, currently pays
interest at 4.75 percentage points more than the lending
benchmark with a 1.25 percent minimum, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Citigroup Inc., Morgan Stanley, Bank of America Corp. and
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. are arranging the financing and
investors are asked to let the banks know by June 18 at 5 p.m.
in New York whether they will participate, according to the
person. The deal is expected to close on June 21.  Fiat is in talks to buy the remaining stake in Chrysler
owned by the United Auto Workers’ retiree health-care trust,
according to  Sergio Marchionne , chief executive officer of the
two manufacturers.  “We have been working on the project for a long time,
we’ll try to complete it as soon as possible,” Marchionne said
on June 7 in Venice, Italy.  Chrysler, based in Auburn Hills, Michigan, has credit
ratings of B1 from Moody’s Investors Service and B+ at  Standard
& Poor’s , four levels below investment-grade.  Chrysler Debt  The company has $3.2 billion of notes, a $2.95 billion term
loan and a $1.3 billion revolving  credit line , Bloomberg data
show. The revolver, which matures in 2016, had no outstanding
borrowings at the end of March, according to Bloomberg data.  Lenders who participate in the bank loan refinancing will
have 101 soft-call protection for the first six months, meaning
Chrysler would have to pay 1 cent more than face value to
reprice the debt during that period, according to the person
with knowledge of the transaction.  Katie Merx, a spokeswoman for Chrysler, declined to comment
on the financing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Idzelis in  New York  at 
 cidzelis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  