-- CIA’s Morell Departs, White House Lawyer Chosen for Job
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2013-06-12T22:08:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/cia-s-morell-leaving-as-obama-names-white-house-lawyer-to-job.html
Deputy CIA Director Michael Morell
is retiring and President  Barack Obama  has selected a White
House lawyer, Avril D. Haines, to replace him at the spy agency.  Morell, 54, who began at the Central Intelligence Agency in
1980 as an analyst, helped draft the administration’s talking
points on the attack on diplomatic facilities in Benghazi,
 Libya . He will become a member of the President’s Intelligence
Advisory Board, the White House said in a statement.  Taking over the job is Haines, 43, who has been deputy
counsel to the president for national security affairs since
2010, marking the first time a woman has ascended to the
agency’s second highest position. While she previously worked at
the State Department and on the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee, she does not have a background in intelligence work.  “I am proud that such experienced and committed
individuals have agreed to serve the American people in these
important roles,” Obama said in a statement. “I look forward
to working with them in the months and years ahead.”  With United Nations Ambassador  Susan Rice  scheduled to
become Obama’s national security adviser in July and former
adviser Samantha Power nominated to replace Rice at the UN,
Obama’s foreign policy team has three women in top positions.  Morell, who served as acting director following the
resignation of David Petraeus in November until  John Brennan  was
confirmed as CIA director in March, said he’s leaving to devote
more time to his family.  Family Concerns  “Whenever someone involved in the rough and tumble of
 Washington  decides to move on, there is speculation in various
quarters about the ‘real reason,’” Morell said in a statement.
“But when I say that it is time for my family, nothing could be
more real than that.”  Brennan, who was Obama’s counterterrorism adviser before
taking over at the CIA, said he’s worked closely with Haines
over the past several years. She’s been a regular participant in
high-level meetings and headed a group of lawyers that reviews
the CIA’s most sensitive programs, he said in a statement.  He also thanked Morell for helping him make the transition
back to the agency.  Morell, who also was one of President  George W. Bush ’s
intelligence briefers, has come under criticism from Republicans
over the Benghazi talking points, which removed any reference to
al-Qaeda from the administration’s initial explanation of the
Sept. 11, 2012, attack that killed U.S. Ambassador Chris Stevens
and three other Americans.  Talking Points  The talking points were used by Rice on Sunday talk shows
to describe the Benghazi attack as growing out of a spontaneous
demonstration sparked by a movie trailer that Muslims found
offensive to their religion. Republicans have conducted multiple
hearings on the administration’s response.  When the Obama administration released almost 100 pages of
e-mails about the origins of the talking points last month,
administration officials said that they showed that it was
Morell, a career CIA employee, who made the final edits to the
document.  That chain of authorship allowed the Obama administration
to preserve its argument that the White House made only minor
edits to a document that originated in the intelligence
community.  Final Draft  References to al-Qaeda were removed while the document was
still being drafted by the CIA, according to White House
officials who briefed reporters. It was eventually replaced with
“Islamic extremist,” in the final draft.  Morell didn’t mention the Benghazi controversy in his
public notice about his retire.  “I am passionate about two things in this world -- the
agency and my family,” he said in a statement emailed to CIA
employees. “And while I have given everything I have to the
Central Intelligence Agency and its vital mission for a third of
a century, it is now time for me to give everything I have to my
family.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  