-- CIT Chief Thain Sees ‘Obvious’ Logic of Selling to Bank
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2013-06-12T17:58:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/cit-s-thain-says-logic-of-selling-bank-is-obvious-.html
CIT Group Inc. (CIT)  Chief Executive
Officer  John Thain , whose commercial lending firm has drawn
takeover speculation, said the logic of selling to a larger bank
is “obvious.”  “The big banks are awash in deposits and they can’t
generate attractive assets,” Thain said today in a Bloomberg
Television interview with  Erik Schatzker  and Sara Eisen. “We,
in all our businesses, are able to generate very high-yielding,
attractive assets, so the logic of that is obvious.”  Thain, 58, declined to say if a deal for the New York-based
commercial lender has been discussed. Regulators last month
lifted sanctions that restricted dividends, buybacks and hiring,
which analysts said would make CIT more attractive to suitors.  “We’re doing very well by ourselves,” he said.  CIT named Thain CEO in 2010 after he sold Merrill Lynch &
Co. to  Bank of America Corp.  His new employer, which once was
the biggest independent U.S. commercial lender, had emerged from
a bankruptcy that wiped out $2.3 billion of government bailout
funds.  Thain led Merrill Lynch as the world’s financial system
unraveled in 2008 and said today he had to sell the firm to save
employees and investors. While Merrill has helped buttress
earnings at Bank of America, the second-biggest U.S. lender, it
would have been better for the brokerage if it could have stayed
independent, he said.  Another Crisis  A crisis like the one in 2008 could “absolutely” happen
again, Thain said. The Dodd-Frank Act hasn’t solved the problem
of lenders that are “too big to fail,” and the biggest firms
are now more concentrated, he said.  With mounting regulations and stricter capital standards,
it would be “totally unrealistic” for larger, global banks to
achieve returns on equity of the mid-teens to 20 percent, Thain
said. Return on equity measures how well banks reinvest
shareholder money and is closely watched by investors as a gauge
of management’s performance.  “It’s different for different institutions,” he said. In
the current environment, it would be good just to get “into
double-digits, so low-teen returns,” he said.  Speculation about CIT’s future revived on May 30 when the
 Federal Reserve Bank of New York  lifted sanctions imposed since
2009. The new freedom and Thain’s turnaround of CIT’s  fortunes 
make the lender a good fit for a healthy bank with cheaper
funding, analysts have said.  CIT dropped 1 cent to $45.77 at 1:39 p.m. in  New York ,
bringing its  gain for 2013  to 18 percent. The firm has a market
value of about $9.2 billion and the stock sells for little more
than book value, a theoretical measure of what a company would
be worth if liquidated.  Founded in 1908, CIT employed more than 3,500 people at the
end of 2012, serving customers in more than 30 industries.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  