-- Clegg Erred by Failing to Probe Sex Allegations, Morrissey Says
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-06-12T15:00:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/clegg-erred-by-failing-to-probe-sex-allegations-morrissey-says.html
U.K. Liberal Democrat leader  Nick Clegg  made a mistake by not ordering an official investigation
into allegations of sexual misconduct made by women in his party
against a senior lawmaker, an inquiry found.  Newton Investment Management Ltd. Chief Executive Officer
 Helena Morrissey  was named to head an inquiry into the Liberal
Democrats’ culture and attitudes toward women after allegations
against the party’s former CEO, Chris Rennard, before the party
became part of the U.K. coalition government in 2010. Rennard, a
member of the upper House of Lords, denies claims that he
sexually harassed female party workers.  One of the party’s most senior women, Jo Swinson, was
approached by four other women with allegations about Rennard.
She made no formal record of their complaints, though she passed
information about the allegations without revealing their
identities to  Danny Alexander , now the chief secretary to the
Treasury, who in turn briefed Clegg, Morrissey told reporters in
London today.  Clegg, who’s now the deputy prime minister, Alexander and
Swinson “should have asked more questions for the sake of Lord
Rennard and everyone else,” Morrissey said. The Liberal
Democrat leader, “along with all the others thought the women
did not want a formal investigation,” she said. “I don’t
believe there was an attempt to deliberately cover things up.”  Clegg said Feb. 24 saying he had heard of “non-specific
concerns” about Rennard’s conduct five years ago. Because the
complaints were made indirectly and anonymously, he said, the
party was limited in how far it could proceed once Rennard had
resigned in 2009, citing ill health.  “A series of mistakes were made which left a number of
women feeling seriously let down and for that there is
absolutely no excuse whatsoever,” Clegg said in an e-mailed
statement today. “I take responsibility for that.”
Recommendations made by Morrissey to improve the party’s
procedures will be implemented “in full and without any
delay,” the deputy premier said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in  London  at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  