-- Congress Hurdle to U.S. Code Rewrite Seen as Few Know How: Taxes
-- B y   M a r c   H e l l e r   a n d   A a r o n   E .   L o r e n z o
-- 2013-06-12T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/congress-hurdle-to-u-s-code-rewrite-seen-as-few-know-how-taxes.html
As lawmakers rewrite the 4,000-page
U.S. Internal Revenue Code, the complexities of Congress -- not
just the  tax code  -- may present some of the biggest hurdles.  Lobbyists and lawmakers working on tax legislation point to
a relative lack of experience among officials and their staffs
-- particularly among  House Republicans  -- in drafting,
debating, and voting on major pieces of tax legislation.  That may make  tax reform  more difficult, Bloomberg BNA
reported. Add the migration of power from House committees to a
small number of majority-party leaders in recent years, and the
odds of passing tax reform appear longer still.  “Whenever I hear about tax reform, I get very skeptical
about it,” said retired Representative Lee Hamilton, a Democrat
from  Indiana  who is director of the Center on Congress at
 Indiana University .  Of lobbyists, officials and former lawmakers, and tax-writing staff members interviewed by BNA, none predicted that
the challenges would derail reform. Several agreed the task will
be tougher based on the realities of crafting such a complicated
bill. Votes in committee alone could take days, testing the
patience and knowledge of staff and lawmakers.  Leaders of the tax-writing committees say they’re committed
to the process, which could simplify tax returns for individuals
and companies, reduce tax rates and possibly raise revenue to
lower the  federal budget  deficit.  Two Markups  Several lobbyists and others pointed to the Affordable Care
Act of 2010 -- when Democrats were in the majority -- as the
last time the  Ways and Means Committee  took on such a major
bill. What used to be six or seven significant tax markups in a
year has dwindled to one or two, a former senior staff member on
the committee told BNA.  That makes cooperation among the two tax-writing committees
and the White House more critical, Capitol Hill veterans said.
While the public favors overhaul, the idea can only advance with
bipartisan leadership, Hamilton said. That’s assuming Republican
Ways and Means Committee Chairman Representative  Dave Camp  and
Democratic Senate Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus  convince
the White House to support it.  Tax-writing committees on both sides of the Capitol have
lost key staffers, as well as some senior lawmakers. Of the 17
Republicans on the Ways and Means Committee in 2007-2008, 10 are
no longer in Congress; one, Representative  Eric Cantor , is the
House majority leader.  The Ways and Means Committee’s staff director, Jonathan Traub, left in 2012 for Deloitte Tax LLP. In the Senate, Jeff VanderWolk, the Finance Committee’s international tax counsel,
left in June for Washington Council Ernst & Young.  Traffic Cops  Some of the deepest experience lies on the minority side in
each chamber. In the Senate, Mark Prater remains as chief
Republican tax counsel on the Finance Committee, where he has
worked for more than 20 years. In the House, lawmakers such as
Charles Rangel of  New York  and ranking Democrat  Sander Levin  of
Michigan were members during the last major tax code overhaul in
1986. Janice Mays, Democratic tax counsel, has worked with the
committee since the 1970s and helped write the 1986 reform.  Lawmakers downplayed any shortage of experience, although
Representative John Larson, a Democrat who is a senior member of
the Ways and Means Committee, said he is concerned about the
lack of “regular order” -- committee action, House-Senate
conference committees and traditional features of legislation
that have fallen out of favor but help foster bipartisanship.  Regular order presents its own challenges, a former senior
committee staff member said. Those include such “traffic cop”
questions as how to handle amendments, whether votes should be
rolled together to save time and how closely the committee
sticks to the predicted time of votes during the markup, all of
which works better with experienced staff.  Lawmaker Lineup  In the past, markups have been preceded by staff work at
least a day ahead, he said. During the health care debate, he
said, Republican staff lined up which lawmakers would offer
which amendments and assigned backup duty to others, knowing
they would probably lose most votes but wanting to make sure
points were heard.  People monitoring and working on tax reform generally
agreed that the committees have lost staff experience. Still,
Traub said the staff of the congressional Joint Committee on
Taxation remains a wealth of expertise.  And both tax-writing committees have put considerable work
into examining policy in preparation for reform. The Ways and
Means Committee convened working groups to examine particular
sections of the code, and the Finance Committee has undertaken
similar work and produced a weekly series of options papers on
potential changes.  “Our staff is very, very knowledgeable of  tax policy ,
they’re very engaged with members, and we have a very free flow
of communication,” Representative Charles Boustany, a Republican
from  Louisiana  who is on the Ways and Means Committee. “I think
that’s going to facilitate a markup.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cesca Antonelli at 
 fantonelli@bloomberg.net  