-- Copper Drops to 1-Month Low on Concern That Stimulus Will Wane
-- B y   J a e   H u r
-- 2013-06-12T01:43:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/copper-drops-to-1-month-low-on-concern-that-stimulus-will-wane.html
Copper declined for a fifth day, the
longest slump since Feb. 22, amid speculation that central banks
from Tokyo to  Washington  will refrain from adding more stimulus
to boost global growth.  Metal for delivery in three months on the London Metal
Exchange fell as much as 0.6 percent to $7,020 a metric ton, the
lowest level since May 3, and was at $7,048.25 by 10:30 a.m. in
Tokyo. Futures for delivery in July on the Comex lost 0.5
percent to $3.1785 a pound.  The  Bank of Japan  yesterday refrained from expanding its
tools to rekindle inflation and stoke growth, sticking with an
April pledge to increase the monetary base by 60 trillion yen to
70 trillion yen ($726 billion) a year. Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  said last month that the central bank could
curtail its $85 billion monthly bond purchases if the U.S.
employment outlook shows a sustainable improvement.  “The chances of additional stimulus have now waned,
outweighing mine-supply disruptions,” said Hwang Il Doo, a
senior trader at Korea Exchange Bank Futures Co. in  Seoul .  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX)  may need to declare
force majeure on shipments from its Grasberg project if the
world’s second-largest copper mine stays shut for too long,
Rozik B. Soetjipto, the president director of the company’s
Indonesian unit, said on June 9. Force majeure is a legal clause
allowing companies to miss deliveries because of circumstances
beyond their control.  The Shanghai Futures Exchange is closed today for the
Dragon Boat Festival holiday.  On the LME, nickel fell to the lowest since July 2009,
while lead and tin also fell. Aluminum and zinc climbed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jae Hur in  Tokyo  at 
 jhur1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  