-- Copper Gains Most in a Week on Supply Concern as Nickel Declines
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2013-06-12T09:43:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/copper-gains-most-in-a-week-on-supply-concern-as-nickel-declines.html
Copper rose the most in a week in
 London  amid supply concern as the world’s second-biggest copper
mine in  Indonesia  remains shut after a deadly accident. Nickel
sank to the lowest level since July 2009.  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX)  rescheduled concentrate
shipments to its customers and is yet to declare a force
majeure, President Director Rozik B. Soetjipto said today.
Copper buyers in the U.S. and  Europe  are paying a higher premium
than last month amid limited availability of the metal. The
metal also gained as some traders bought after prices slid to a
five-week low yesterday, according to Citigroup Inc.  “The potential output cuts at Freeport’s Grasberg appear
to be giving some support as concerns over supply continue,”
Cailey Barker, an analyst at Numis Securities Ltd. in London,
said in a report.  Metal for delivery in three months rose 1.1 percent to
$7,144.75 a metric ton by 10:26 a.m. on the London Metal
Exchange. Copper jumped as much as 1.4 percent, the biggest
intraday gain since June 4, after dropping to as low as $7,032
yesterday. Futures for delivery in July rose 0.9 percent to
$3.223 a pound on the Comex in  New York .  “Everybody has been saying as soon as it gets to $7,000 it
looks like it’s worth buying, and if it’s at $7,500 or close to,
it’s worth selling,”  David Wilson , a London-based analyst at
Citigroup, said by telephone today.  Independent Probe  Operations at Grasberg are shut, except for maintenance,
until the government gets the results of an independent probe of
an accident at a tunnel that killed 28 people on May 14, the
Energy and Mineral Resources Ministry said June 5. Another
worker died on June 1 after a separate incident. The halt may
cut output by about 680 tons a day, Bloomberg calculations show.
Force majeure is a legal clause allowing companies to miss
deliveries because of circumstances beyond their control.  “The market continues to be tight with relatively low
levels of visible stocks and a supply side that is affected by
disruptions at existing operations and delays to new production
coming on-stream,” Antofagasta Plc Chairman Jean-Paul Luksic
said in a statement today, adding the company remains positive
on the long-term fundamentals of the copper industry.  Copper stockpiles monitored by the LME rose 0.1 percent to
609,550 tons as orders to remove the metal from warehouses slid
0.4 percent to 223,100 tons, daily exchange figures showed.  Nickel sank to the lowest since July 2009, retreating for a
sixth day, before trading at $14,470 a ton. Nickel stockpiles
monitored by the LME rose to a record 183,720 tons on inflows in
Johor,  Malaysia , the data showed.  Aluminum, lead and zinc gained on the LME. Tin fell. The
Shanghai Futures Exchange is closed today for the Dragon Boat
Festival holiday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  