-- Cotton Planting in India Seen Gaining on Early Monsoon Rains
-- B y   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 2013-06-12T08:41:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/cotton-planting-in-india-seen-increasing-on-early-monsoon-rains.html
Farmers in  India , the world’s
second-largest cotton grower, may plant more of the crop than
estimated after monsoon rains covered the main growing regions
early, easing a drought that cut production the previous year.
Prices declined.  The area under the crop in the 12 months starting Oct. 1
may match 11.77 million hectares (29 million acres) in
2012-2013, said Dhiren Sheth, chairman of the Cotton Association
of India. That compares with an estimate for a 6.5 percent
decline to 11 million hectares in a Bloomberg survey published
on April 8.  Prospects for better yields and a jump in inventories may
boost India’s exportable surplus, potentially pressuring prices
in New York that climbed 13 percent this year, the biggest gain
among the 24 commodities tracked by the Standard & Poor’s GSCI
Spot Index. Global output will drop 4.8 percent in the season
starting Aug. 1, while demand climbs 2.3 percent, the
International Cotton Advisory Committee estimates. Dry weather
is hampering crops in  Texas , the biggest U.S. growing state.  “The monsoon is fairly cooperative and the progress has
been good,” A. Ramani, secretary of the Indian Cotton
Federation, which represents 350 spinners, ginners and traders,
said by phone from the southern Indian city of Coimbatore. “We
should see a normal crop next year.”  Monsoon Progress  Farmers have sown 1.17 million hectares as of June 7,
compared 1.18 million hectares a year earlier, according to data
from the  Agriculture Ministry . The harvest dropped about 4
percent to 34 million bales of 170 kilograms each this season,
the state-run Cotton Advisory Board said on April 17. Exports
may total 9.5 million bales this year, more than the
government’s estimate of 8.1 million bales, Sheth said.  The monsoon, which accounts for more than 70 percent of the
country’s annual rainfall, reached Maharashtra and Gujarat
states at least five days earlier than normal, according to the
 India Meteorological Department . Showers, which have been 17
percent more than a 50-year average since June 1, were as much
as 166 percent above average in Gujarat and 107 percent more in
Maharashtra, the department’s data showed. The states are the
nation’s top growers, representing almost 50 percent of the
crop.  “In certain areas such as Gujarat, the farmers planting
intentions suggest that they will plant less, but this will be
compensated by higher area in other states such as  Andhra
Pradesh , Maharashtra and Karnataka, where the rains have already
arrived,” Ramani said.  Craze Missing  The area may be lower by 100,000 hectares in Gujarat this
year as farmers will shift to more profitable crops such as
peanuts and guar, said Hasmukhbhai Raval, chairman of the
 Gujarat State Co-operative Cotton Federation Ltd.   “During the harvesting season last year prices of cotton
were less, so the craze for it has gone down,” Raval said.
“Rains have just begun, but there is not enough water to drink,
leave alone farming. So sowing may be delayed by a month.”  Cotton for December delivery declined 0.3 percent to 84.97
cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York  at 1:21 p.m in
Mumbai today. Futures tumbled 18 percent last year, extending a
37 drop in 2011. April-delivery contract on the National
Commodity & Derivatives Exchange Ltd. in Mumbai declined 0.3
percent to 1,068.50 rupees ($18.4) per 20 kilograms.  “‘If the rains continue positively, than it will be
positive not only for cotton but for other crops also,’’ Sheth
said. ‘‘Planting looks promising. We have to see how the next
three months go.’’  Monsoon rainfall during the four months through September
may be 98 percent of a 50-year average, a level considered
normal, according to the weather department. The precipitation
was 8 percent below average last year and reduced water for
crops in Maharashtra, Gujarat and Karnataka, cutting cotton and
sugar cane harvests.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  