-- CP All Shareholders Approve 189 Billion Baht Siam Makro Deal
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2013-06-12T09:49:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/cp-all-shareholders-approve-189-billion-baht-siam-makro-takeover.html
CP All Pcl (CPALL)  shareholders approved the
Thai retailer’s 189 billion baht ($6.1 billion) acquisition of
 Siam Makro Pcl (MAKRO) , the country’s biggest ever takeover.  About 87 percent of shareholders who attended today’s
meeting in Bangkok voted for the proposal, more than the 75
percent required, said Supot Shitgasornpongse, the company’s
secretary. CP All, controlled by billionaire Dhanin Chearavanont’s Charoen Pokphand Group, offered 787 baht a share
for Siam Makro, the Bangkok-based retailer said on April 24.  Dhanin is trying to reassemble his retail empire after
earlier selling control of the membership-warehouse  chain  he
founded. He’s offering about 53 times Siam Makro’s  earnings  last
year, more than double the average for 20 retailer takeovers in
emerging Asia announced over the last five years, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  “CP All would significantly strengthen its domination in
Thailand’s commerce industry by expanding into the cash-and-carry business,” said Jintana Mekintharanggur, who helps
oversee about $200 million as director of equities investment at
Manulife Asset Management Co. Synergies may provide a
“justification for paying that expensive price,” she said.  Dhanin is buying companies at home and abroad, accounting
for more than half of the record $31 billion in total deals
announced this year in Thailand, including CP Group’s purchase
of a $9.4 billion stake in China’s Ping An Insurance (Group) Co.  Biggest Acquisition  Dhanin has a net worth of $6.5 billion, according to the
 Bloomberg Billionaires Index . Many of his assets are owned
through closely-held holding companies that he shares with his
three brothers. Dhanin’s net worth calculation excludes the
stakes held by his brothers, Jaran Chiaravanont, Montri
Jiaravanont and Sumet Jiaravanon.  The Siam Makro purchase is the largest on record for Thai
companies. CP All had cash and cash equivalents of 35 billion
baht with no debt as of March 31, according to the company’s
financial statements.  “In the short term, Siam Makro’s earnings contribution
wouldn’t be sufficient to cover funding costs,” Chaiyatorn
Sricharoen, an analyst at Bualuang Securities Pcl, said in a
note yesterday. Still, CP All will gain long-term benefits
including added bargaining power with suppliers and pooling
purchases of raw materials, he said.  CP All and Siam Makro management will meet next month “to
discuss how we can implement the synergy, such as in material
purchases,” Chief Executive Officer Korsak Chairasmisak told
reporters after today’s meeting. “Siam Makro’s main overseas
expansion will be in neighboring countries of Laos, Myanmar and
Cambodia.”  Asian Crisis  The acquisition of Siam Makro tops the $5.5 billion
purchase of PTT Aromatics & Refining Pcl by PTT Chemical Pcl in
2011 to become the largest on record in  Thailand , data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Dhanin and SHV founded Siam Makro in 1988, according to the
company’s website. CP All agreed to buy SHV’s 64 percent stake
for 787 baht a share and will make a tender offer to other
shareholders at the same price, it said.  Charoen Pokphand was once Siam Makro’s largest shareholder
with a stake of as much as 47 percent in 1997, the same year
that the devaluation of Thailand’s baht triggered a financial
crisis that pushed many Asian economies into recession.  After the crisis, Dhanin sold stakes in companies including
Siam Makro and Lotus Supercenter, which was bought by Tesco. In
May 2005, a Charoen Pokphand unit sold 7 percent of Siam Makro
back to the company that controlled the retailer for 60 baht per
share.  Siam Commercial Bank Pcl (SCB)  is advising CP All on the
acquisition and HSBC Holdings Plc is advising SHV Holdings NV,
Siam Makro’s biggest shareholder.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  