-- Crude Climbs for First Time in Three Days on Dollar
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2013-06-12T20:17:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/crude-rises-before-supply-report-as-equities-gain.html
West Texas Intermediate crude rose
for the first time in three days as the dollar weakened versus
major peers amid concern that Mideast tension may trim supplies.  Oil gained 0.5 percent as the Dollar Index fell to the
lowest level since February. Turkish protesters were driven out
of Taksim Square yesterday by police as the biggest rallies in
more than 10 years spread nationwide after May 31. Libya’s
National Oil Corp. said yesterday that crude output has fallen
to less than 1 million barrels a day after sabotage and labor
unrest shut oilfields and ports.  “The dollar is down and we are getting some support from
that,” said John Kilduff, a partner at Again Capital LLC, a New
York-based hedge fund that focuses on energy. “There is a
continuing focus on the Middle East, whether it’s  Turkey  or
Libya’s production.”  WTI for July delivery rose 50 cents to settle at $95.88 a
barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The volume of all
futures traded was 3.7 percent below the 100-day average for the
time of day at 3:47 p.m.  Brent for July settlement advanced 53 cents, or 0.5
percent, to $103.49 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. Volume was 4.1 percent below the 100-day
average for the time of day. Brent’s premium to WTI widened by 3
cents to $7.61. Yesterday, the spread shrank to its narrowest
level in more than two years.  Dollar Drops  The Dollar Index, which measures the greenback against six
other major currencies including the euro, dropped 0.2 percent
after falling to 80.748, the lowest level since Feb. 20. A
weaker dollar boosts oil’s appeal as an investment alternative.  “The dollar is going negative, so it’s positive for the
oil market,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at
Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “We are watching the
broader financial market.”  Turkey’s Taksim Solidarity group, which says it represents
protesters, reiterated demands including the preservation of a
park, the dismissal of governors and police chiefs in cities
where demonstrators have been attacked, and the release of those
detained during the rallies. Turkish markets plunged.  The Turkish Mediterranean port of Ceyhan is the export
terminal for crude that’s transmitted via pipeline from northern
 Iraq , OPEC’s second-largest producer. It also receives Azeri
Light crude from Baku, in the Azeri section of the Caspian Sea,
via  Georgia , through the 1,100-mile (1,768-kilometer) Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan pipeline.  Choke Point  Farther west, an estimated 2.9 million barrels a day of oil
flowed through the Turkish Straits in 2010, according to the
Energy Information Administration, which designates the straits
as “one of the busiest and most dangerous  choke points  in the
world supplying Western and Southern Europe.”  The straits, including two narrow waterways of the Bosporus
and the Dardanelles, connect the Sea of Marmara with the Black
Sea on one side and the Aegean arm of the Mediterranean Sea on
the other. They are also considered the boundary between the
continents of Europe and Asia.  Libya’s output has plunged by at least 600,000 barrels a
day from more than 1.6 million in the middle of last year,
state-run NOC said in a statement on its website. That would
bring pumping to the lowest level since January 2012, when the
nation’s oil industry was rebuilding after the fall of deposed
leader Muammar Qaddafi the previous year, data compiled by
Bloomberg indicates.  U.S. Supplies  Prices pared gains after the Energy Information
Administration said U.S. inventories increased 2.52 million
barrels last week to 393.8 million barrels a day. Analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg had expected a drop of 1.5 million.
Supplies surged to 397.6 million on May 24, the most since 1931.  “We are not running out of oil,” said Tim Evans, an
energy analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in New York. “This
is a clearly a bearish data set overall.”  Gasoline supplies climbed 1.3 percent to 221.5 million
barrels, an eight-week high. Distillate fuels, including diesel
and heating oil, dropped 0.9 percent to 122.1 million.  Gasoline demand dropped 2 percent to 8.65 million barrels a
day, the  lowest  level at this time of the year since 2003,
according to the EIA, the Energy Department’s statistical unit.  “When you combine those two increases in crude and
gasoline and compare them with falling demand, it’s another
indicator that we have weak fundamentals,” McGillian said.  Inventories at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point for
New York futures, fell 1.5 percent to 49.3 million barrels.  “If you can focus narrowly on Cushing inventories, you do
see a decline,” Evans said.  Demand Forecast  The International Energy Agency trimmed demand forecasts
today for the amount of oil the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries needs to supply in the second half of 2013
on signs of slower Chinese growth.  “ China  has consistently been the focal point of global
demand growth,” said Tom Finlon, the Jupiter, Florida-based
director of Energy Analytics Group LLC. “If you have a
projection for slower demand growth there, you’ll see prices be
pressured.”  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
August was 20.5 percent, compared with 20.2 percent yesterday,
data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 505,361
contracts as of 3:47 p.m. It totaled 582,901 contracts
yesterday, 3.3 percent lower than the three-month average. Open
interest was a record 1.82 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  