-- Dollar Weakens Before Economic Data That May Sway Fed Stimulus
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-06-12T21:17:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/dollar-weakens-before-economic-data-that-may-sway-fed-stimulus.html
The dollar fell against the majority
of its 16 most-traded peers before U.S. economic data that may
provide more direction about when the  Federal Reserve  will begin
to taper its monetary stimulus.  The  Dollar Index  touched its lowest point in almost four
months before a report tomorrow forecast to show retail sales
grew 0.4 percent in May, according to a Bloomberg survey.
Sentiment has grown that a strengthening economy will prompt the
U.S. central bank to taper bond buying, which risks devaluing
the currency. The yen fell earlier on speculation the biggest
gain in three years yesterday was too rapid amid forecasts for
further stimulus from the  Bank of Japan .  “You’ve had a huge bounce in dollar-yen, an enormous
buildup of speculative positions on long dollar-yen and you’re
now seeing a bigger correction,” said  Richard Franulovich , a
senior currency strategist at Westpac Banking Corp. by phone
from New York. “The bounce in the euro, the kiwi, the Aussie in
the last few days seems to have coincided with yen strength, so
you might argue that whatever the catalyst for the yen
strengthening, it’s triggering dollar selling elsewhere.”  The dollar fell 0.2 decline versus the euro to $1.3337 per
euro at 5 p.m. in New York. The 17-nation currency lost 0.2
percent to 128.06 per yen. The greenback was little changed at
96.02 yen after gaining as much as 1 percent.  Dollar Measure  The Dollar Index, which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major
trading partners, lost 0.2 percent to 80.957, reaching the
lowest level on a closing basis since Feb. 19. The measure
traded below its 200-day moving average for the first time since
Feb. 20.  The weakness can be traced to strength in the euro, which
is trading at a key technical level that may signal more gains
for the common currency, according to Marc Chandler, global head
of currency strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co.  The euro is trading at its 61.8 percent Fibonacci
retracement of the February highs, he said. The next level would
be the 76.4 percent Fibonacci retracement level at $1.3483.  “At this point, I would say it’s a random guess whether it
breaks it or not, Chandler said by phone from  New York .  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Global FX Volatility Index fell to
10.57 percent after rising to 10.59 percent yesterday, the
highest since June 2012.  Rand Gains  South Africa ’s rand weakened after the country’s worst bond
selloff in four years. The currency fell 0.4 percent to 10.1133
per dollar.  Brazil ’s real dropped 1.1 percent to 2.1564 per dollar on
speculation the central bank’s four swap auctions this week
won’t be sufficient to stop the currency’s decline. The central
bank’s sale of currency swaps yesterday in two auctions followed
the sale of $2.1 billion of the swaps the day before.  India ’s rupee rebounded a day after falling to a record low
versus the dollar as the government said it is considering
options to spur inflows and  Fitch Ratings  revised the nation’s
credit-rating outlook to stable from negative. The currency
appreciated 1 percent to 57.7900, after reaching its biggest
gain on a closing basis since Jan. 18.  One-year implied volatility for the dollar-yen climbed to
13.16 percent, its highest level since August 2011.  Central Bank  The BOJ refrained from adding stimulus or expanding its
toolkit for tackling volatility in bonds after a policy meeting
yesterday. Governor Haruhiko Kuroda said the central bank would
discuss longer fund operations when needed to calm markets.  Japanese  machine orders  dropped 8.8 percent in April from
March after rising for the previous two months, the Cabinet
office said in  Tokyo . Economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News 
forecast a decline of 8.1 percent.  The yen has slumped 7.9 percent this year, the worst
performer among 10 developed-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro gained 4.3
percent and the dollar strengthened 3.1 percent.  Australia ’s dollar snapped a three-day slide versus the
U.S. currency as a technical indicator signaled recent selling
was overdone. The relative-strength index versus the greenback
fell to 30.7 yesterday, near the 30 level that some traders see
as a sign the price has fallen too rapidly and is poised to
change direction.  The Aussie gained 0.6 percent to 94.84 U.S. cents after
falling to 93.26 yesterday, the weakest since September 2010.
 New Zealand ’s dollar rose the most out of the greenback’s 16
most-traded counterparts, appreciating 1.5 percent to 79.90 U.S.
cents.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said May 22 the central bank
could reduce its monthly purchases of $45 billion of Treasuries
and $40 billion of mortgage bonds if the U.S. employment outlook
shows a sustainable improvement. Policy makers have pledged to
keep  interest rates  at almost zero as long as joblessness is
above 6.5 percent and inflation is no more than 2.5 percent.  The central bank’s next rate decision will be June 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  