-- Dubai World’s Asset Disposals Seen Slow as Loan Repayments Loom
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2013-06-12T11:27:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/dubai-world-s-asset-disposals-seen-slow-as-loan-repayments-loom.html
Dubai World’s plan to sell a U.K.
warehouse developer owned by a subsidiary will do little to help
the Middle East company’s attempt to raise about $15 billion to
fund debt repayments.  Dubai World unit Economic Zones World FZE yesterday
announced the sale of EZW Gazeley Ltd. to Toronto-based
 Brookfield Property Partners LP (BPY-U)  and some institutions. Terms of
the transaction weren’t disclosed. A person briefed on the
situation said in April that the business was valued at about
300 million pounds ($465 million).  The proceeds of the sale will be used to pre-pay a portion
of an Islamic loan, the company said. Dubai World, one of the
emirate’s three main state-owned holding companies, will seek to
push ahead with its own asset sales over the next two years as
it needs to repay $4.4 billion dollars to creditors in 2015 and
another $10.3 billion by 2018.  The Gazeley sale “is a step in the right direction for the
GRE’s deleveraging efforts,” Gus Chehayeb, the Dubai-based
research director for the  Middle East  at investment bank Exotix
Ltd. said by phone yesterday. However, there will be “little
benefit” from this sale for Dubai World creditors and the
company “is way behind schedule in terms of disposing off its
other assets, which are not very marketable,” he said.  Dubai World roiled global markets in November 2009 when it
asked creditors to delay about $25 billion of debt maturities.
The emirate, which was on the brink of a default that year, was
rescued by a $20 billion loan from the United Arab Emirates
central bank and the Abu Dhabi government and two years later
Dubai World agreed with about 80 lenders to delay repayments.  Economic Rebound  Economic Zones World’s unit Jebel Ali Free Zone FZE, a
Dubai-based business park operator, raised a 4.4 billion-dirham
($1.2 billion) loan last year to help repay a sukuk. It will use
the proceeds from the sale of London-based Gazeley, which it
bought from  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  in 2008, to pay down the debt.  Dubai World was one of several companies hurt by the
emirate’s property crash during the global financial crisis and
by frozen credit markets. Its other assets include port operator
DP World Ltd., private-equity company Istithmar World PJSC, the
Atlantis hotel on Dubai’s palm-shaped islands, and a 5.3 percent
stake in Las Vegas casino operator  MGM Resorts International. (MGM)   Dubai World also owned property company Nakheel PJSC, the
developer of Dubai’s palm islands, before it was taken over in
2010 by the government in separate debt restructuring. Companies
based in Dubai have restructured more than $40 billion of
liabilities since 2009 to help revive the economy.  As Dubai’s economy has recovered from the impact of the
global financial crisis with a rebound in tourism, trade and
property prices, there have been signs asset sales may revive.
Earlier this month,  Abu Dhabi ’s Mubadala Development Co. said it
will buy a 50 percent stake in state-owned Dubai Aluminium Co.
and merge another aluminum smelter to create $15 billion joint
venture. The deal’s value was not disclosed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  