-- Dying Girl Who Sparked Transplant Policy Change Gets Lung
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2013-06-13T00:39:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/dying-girl-who-sparked-transplant-policy-change-gets-lung.html
Sarah Murnaghan, the 10-year-old
whose critical need for new lungs led to a temporary change in
U.S. transplant rules, today received a double-lung transplant.  The Pennsylvania girl, who suffers from cystic fibrosis,
was recovering last night after surgery that lasted about six
hours at Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia, Tracy Simon, a
spokeswoman for the Murnaghan family, said in an e-mail. The
youngster had been on the transplant waiting list since December
2011 and may have had only a few weeks to live without an organ
donation.  “We are thrilled to share that Sarah is out of surgery,”
her family said in the e-mail from Simon. “Her doctors are very
pleased with both her progress during the procedure and her
prognosis for recovery.”  The Murnaghan family sued U.S. officials after Sarah was
denied an exemption to transplant rules that bar children
younger than 12 years old from receiving adult lungs until all
adults in need are given a chance to accept them. The girl’s
plight sparked calls by lawmakers to review the organ donor
policies and she won a temporary court order last week making
her eligible for a lung from an adult.  “The surgeons had no challenges resizing and transplanting
the donor lungs -- the surgery went smoothly and Sarah did
extremely well,” the Murnaghan family said, adding that she had
been moved to the hospital’s intensive care unit “and now her
recovery begins.”  Policy Change  The executive committee of the Organ Procurement and
Transplantation Network voted at an emergency meeting this week
to create an interim classification for child lung candidates
with exceptional cases. The rule will be effective until July 1,
2014, giving time to find a permanent solution to the under-12
policy.  The network, created by Congress, operates as an
independent nonprofit group under federal contract to manage
transplant procedures, prioritizing patients by medical need.  The new policy allows children with exceptional cases
access to adult lungs based on an allocation score used to
prioritize adult lung transplants. Children younger than 12
aren’t typically assigned a score, only placed in one of two
categories, which can keep them from receiving adult lungs.  Almost 1,700 people nationwide await a life-saving lung
transplant, including 30 children ages 10 or younger, the OPTN
said in a May 27  statement . In 2012 there were 11 lung donors
from the ages of 6 to 10, the network said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon Pettypiece in  New York  at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  