-- Lebanon Sheltering More Than 1.2 Million Syrians, Minister Says
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2013-06-12T09:11:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/lebanon-sheltering-more-than-1-2-million-syrians-minister-says.html
Lebanon is sheltering more than 1.2
million Syrians, whose growing presence poses “the most
dangerous challenge” the country faces, Caretaker Social
Affairs Minister Wael Abou Faour said.  The influx, swollen by refugees from the civil war in
neighboring  Syria , threatens to upset the delicate sectarian
balance in Lebanon, a country of 4.3 million, according to 2011
World Bank figures. It is also driving up prices and pressuring
government services, Abou Faour said.  “The security, economic, social, political and demographic
pressures are huge, and the situation is very dangerous,” he
said in a phone interview yesterday.  The Syrian community in Lebanon includes more than 500,000
refugees from Syria’s civil war, and affluent Syrians who fled
the fighting but aren’t registered as refugees, Abou Faour said.
The balance are Syrian workers and their families who were in
the country before Syria’s war began in March 2011, he said,
citing police records for the total number.  Unlike Turkey and Jordan, Lebanon has not set up camps for
Syrian refugees, amid fears that would heighten sectarian
tensions already inflamed by the war between Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad, whose Alawite sect is an offshoot of Shiite
Islam, and predominantly Sunni Muslim rebels. Shiites, Sunnis
and Christians each make up roughly a third of the Lebanese
population, and the country fought its own sectarian civil war
from 1975 to 1990.  Palestinian Refugees  Lebanon already houses 455,000 mostly Sunni Palestinians in
12  refugee camps , and the majority of Syrian refugees are Sunni.
The Palestinians, like Syria, were a major player in Lebanon’s
civil war.  Abou Faour said there have been discussions about setting
up camps for Syrians for the past year, “but some political
powers” have not agreed to it. He did not identify them.  The Syrian presence in Lebanon has pushed up the prices of
basic commodities and rent and created “extraordinary”
pressure on Lebanon’s institutions, including hospitals, Abou
Faour said. Public schools have absorbed Syrian students and
some private schools have afternoon shifts for Syrian students
who want to study their country’s curriculum, he said.  Energy Minister Gebran Bassil said in an April 18 interview
that power demand has increased 27 percent in the past two years
because of the influx of Syrians. There’s an acute shortage of
hospital beds, especially in emergency units, because of the
Syrian influx, Health Minister Ali Hassan Khalil said June 10.  Lebanon is campaigning to persuade other countries in the
region to take in some of the refugees, Abou Faour said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Lebanon at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  