-- ECB Court Probe Focuses on Limits to Monetary Policy
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2013-06-12T17:37:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/ecb-crisis-plan-court-probe-focuses-on-limits-to-monetary-policy.html
Germany’s top judges examining the
 European Central Bank ’s plan to buy bonds of crisis-torn
countries asked whether the operation crosses the line from
legitimate  monetary policy  to illicit state financing.  Witnesses at the second day of hearings before the Federal
Constitutional Court in Karlsruhe faced queries from the panel
on whether the central bank’s Outright Monetary Transactions
program oversteps the mark beyond the ECB’s mandate to conduct
monetary policy. Judges also asked whether the rules
underpinning that mandate should be revamped.  “We have heard that it’s very difficult to demarcate the
line between state financing and monetary policy” when
analyzing the OMT, Chief Justice Andreas Vosskuhle said. The
question is whether “the OMT’s caveats could be a good middle
course.”  The line of questioning followed comments yesterday from
ECB Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen that the central
bank’s OMT plan has safeguards that prevent it from turning into
a government financing program, including a waiting period
before an emitted bond can be bought on the secondary market.
European Union rules ban government financing by the ECB. The
as-yet unused OMT, which ECB President  Mario Draghi  has said is
the “most successful” central bank tool, foresees bond
purchases if countries sign up to economic reforms.  Tighter Leash  Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann said today that while
officials could put the OMT on a tighter leash, it would no
longer be the same instrument. Asked whether the markets
believed that the ECB would use “unlimited firepower,” he said
the spread reduction after the OMT announcement indicate that
the markets took the central bank at its word.  “Of course it’s possible that the ECB uses its unlimited
firepower, but the question then is if this firepower is
consistent with our mandate,” said Weidmann.  Asmussen said in a closing statement today that “the rule
that you don’t fight the U.S. Fed now applies to the ECB.” The
ECB has established that it is the strongest player in the
market “through the announcement of the OMT,” he said.  Germany’s top court is reviewing suits by political groups,
professors and lawmakers who argue the ECB’s OMT program and the
European Stability Mechanism violate European laws and the
constitutional principle of democracy.  Clemens Fuest, president of the ZEW Center for European
Economic Research in  Mannheim , Germany, told the judges there’s
no clear boundary between monetary and fiscal effects of such a
policy. Every purchase of  government bonds  has the effect that
it becomes easier for the country to refinance itself, he said.  ‘Gray Area’  “It’s a gray area,” said Fuest. “But I think the main
effect of the ECB’s policies is to ease access of these
countries to the financial markets. That doesn’t mean, however,
that the bank didn’t have any monetary considerations” for the
OMT.  Fuest backed claims that German lawmakers can’t control how
big the liabilities will be under the rescue policies. While
they have a say on the debt Germany assumes under the ESM, they
cannot steer how much the OMT may cost in the end.  “As a lawmaker, I would have to ask how much taxpayer
money I would put at risk when voting on an ESM rescue
program,” said Fuest. “Well, I couldn’t answer that
question.”  Ulrich Haede, a lawyer for the government, argued that
 Germany  wouldn’t automatically have to pay for any losses the
ECB incurs, since central banks usually carry losses forward.
The issue would only arise if at some point the euro member
states needed to recapitalize the ECB, he said.  Troubled States  Vosskuhle said that all the experts asked to speak
yesterday and today -- including those backing the ECB’s
strategy -- acknowledged that the OMT has effects that help
troubled states to refinance, and that this is somehow also
intended.  Fuest and Hans-Werner Sinn, president of the Ifo research
institute, told the court a waiting period for buying bonds --
one of the caveats under the OMT cited by Asmussen yesterday --
wouldn’t avoid risking government financing via the OMT.  “It doesn’t matter that the ECB says it will wait a period
of time before buying bonds,” said Sinn. “It only matters to
the markets that the ECB is there in the end to buy the bonds.”  On whether it would be a viable option to refine the rules
on what the ECB may do under its mandate, Vosskuhle asked if
there was potential room for maneuver.  Possible ‘Leeway’  “Maybe there is a way to fence in the leeway somehow,”
said Vosskuhle. “We have to think about how to empower the
guarantees of our constitution, that’s why that question is
important.”  Asmussen replied that it is a very German approach to think
of additional rules to restrict the ECB under EU law. He warned
that any new discussion over the ECB’s rules could also take a
direction Germany wouldn’t want.  If the court comes to the conclusion that there is a
violation of EU rules, everything points toward sending the case
to the  European Court  of Justice to seek its guidance, Vosskuhle
said, replying to a plaintiff lawyer who argued against that
step because the EU’s top judges would clear the ECB action in
any case.  “The fact that you expect a ruling you don’t like isn’t an
argument for us not to send the case” to the ECJ, said
Vosskuhle.  A ruling is expected later this year.  The cases are BVerfG, 2 BvR 1390/12 et al.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Karlsruhe via 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 