-- Economy Not for Donkeys as Crisis Tops Iran Voter Concerns
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2013-06-13T07:48:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/economy-not-just-for-donkeys-as-crisis-tops-iran-voter-concerns.html
Iran’s next president is about to
find out that economics is not just for donkeys after all.  Decades after  Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini  dismissed it as
an asinine matter following the  Islamic Revolution  in 1979,
fixing the worst economy in about 20 years tops the list of
issues voters in tomorrow’s election say they care about,
according to the Iranian Students Polling Agency.  “Every eight years a new president came, but it didn’t
change our situation,” said Mahbobeh Hakimi, 38, who lives in
Shohada Square, a low-income area in the capital Tehran. “I
can’t buy milk for my teenage daughter.”  Hurt by U.S. and European sanctions that triggered a
currency crisis, Iran’s  gross domestic product  is set to shrink
for a second year in 2013 while  inflation  will stay near the
highest level since 1995, the International Monetary Fund
estimates. The new political chief will need to seek the
authority to turn the economy around from Khomeini’s successor,
Supreme Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei , while halting the
deterioration in foreign relations over  Iran’s nuclear program .  “There are two clocks ticking,” said  Cliff Kupchan , Iran
analyst at Eurasia Group in  Washington . “There’s the nuclear
clock, or when will Iran get nuclear weapons capability, and
also an indigenous unrest clock: when will the economy get so
bad Iranians can’t take it and they go to the streets?”  Watermelon Prices  While declaring economics was “for donkeys,” the late
Khomeini told Iranians that the revolution wasn’t about “the
price of watermelon,” according to citations from his speech.  The remaining six candidates in tomorrow’s election have
shifted focus, promising voters to revive the economy and
stabilize the  exchange rate , blaming the crisis on outgoing
President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , who is barred by the country’s
constitution from seeking a third four-year term.  The rial has lost more than two thirds of its value in the
past two years as of April 30, according to the U.S. Treasury.
Inflation in April was 32 percent, and a quarter of all Iranians
aged 15 to 29 were unemployed in the last Iranian year ending
March 20, official figures show.  Talks and intensified sanctions meanwhile failed to press
Iran to abandon its nuclear program, which officials in the
Islamic republic say is designed for peaceful purposes.  Security Crackdown  Unrest for now remains unlikely amid a security crackdown
on opposition leaders, Jamie Ingram, an analyst at research firm
IHS, said in a report released yesterday. The economy at the
same time will post a current account surplus this year and in
2014, according to IMF estimates.  “Economies can survive for a very long time,” Emad Mostaque, London-based strategist at Noah Capital Markets, said
in an interview in Dubai yesterday. “They have developed self-sustaining infrastructure.”  In an attempt to boost his popularity among the poor,
Ahmadinejad, 56, provided subsidized loans. That ultimately hurt
the economy because it forced banks into “almost guaranteed
loss positions,” according to Edward Bell, a London-based
analyst at the Economist Intelligence Unit.  “Those are issues that the central bank and the new
government could have control over,” he said on June 10.
Inflation is “probably a bigger challenge because of the
significant pressure on prices of anything that’s imported.”  The Islamic republic is paying premiums of as much as 15
percent to secure food and animal feed from  India  as sanctions
curb supplies of essential commodities. Iranian importers paid
as much as $119 a metric ton more for Indian basmati rice
compared with other buyers in the 11 months through February,
according to India’s Commerce Ministry.  More Sanctions  It may get worse. The U.S. is set to impose fresh penalties
from July 1 to make the Iranian currency useless in global
commerce. That involves sanctions against foreign banks that
exchange rials, according to the  U.S. Treasury  Department.  A “significant” deterioration risks sparking a broader-based opposition to the regime than the protests that followed
the 2009 election, said Bell. He estimates GDP will shrink by as
much as 2 percent this year after a contraction of about 3
percent in 2012.  “For the next several years we expect Iran’s economy to be
smaller than it was in 2011,” he said. “So while we might have
a growth rate in, say 2015, overall the economy is still at a
much more reduced size than a few years ago.”  Some young Iranians have said that they had no plans to
vote, even as Khamenei urges high turnout, after the suppression
of the opposition following the last vote. Protesters accused
authorities at the time of using ballot fraud to deny a
reformist candidate victory.  While  Iran  isn’t “at a boiling point,” the worsening
economy will put more pressure on the regime, said Kupchan of
Eurasia Group. “I don’t think the ship could be turned around
without sanctions relief,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  