-- Legal & General CEO Sees Potential to Invest $24 Billion in U.K.
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2013-06-12T10:49:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/legal-general-ceo-sees-potential-to-invest-24-billion-in-u-k-.html
Legal & General Group Plc (LGEN) , the
biggest manager of U.K. pension assets, could invest 15 billion
pounds ($24 billion) in infrastructure if the government revised
its planning and energy policies, Chief Executive Officer Nigel Wilson said.  The insurer would spend the money on housing, roads,
airports and shale gas projects were the government to grant
developers more planning permission and commit to a long-term
energy plan, Wilson said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s The Pulse with Guy Johnson and Francine Lacqua
today.  “We just happen to have not coherent policies in a lot of
areas and we need to unblock those things that are blocking the
growth: housing, energy, transport,” Wilson, 56, said. “The
land is available, the capital is available. There just has to
be the political will.”  The U.K. economy grew 0.3 percent in the first quarter, as
Britain avoided a triple-dip recession following the financial
crisis. While recent economic data shows the improvement, with
U.K. jobless claims falling more than economists forecast in
May, the country is still growing slower than it could be
because of government policy, Wilson said.  ‘Ridiculously High’  “Policy at the moment is just driving up  London  house
prices, which are ridiculously high and London rents which are
ridiculously high,” he said. “We need a policy for the whole
country that works.”  With 15 billion pounds, Legal & General could build 127,500
new homes, according to London-based real estate consulting firm
Davis Langdon, more than the total built in the U.K. in 2011.
That sum would also build 27 hospitals, based on the 545
million-pound cost of the Queen Elizabeth hospital, which opened
in Birmingham in 2010.  The government’s infrastructure plan “is working” and
investment has risen since 2010, when it came into power, a
Treasury spokeswoman said in a statement in March.  The insurer, which has already invested 3 billion pounds in
infrastructure, would spend the money on “housing, increasing
energy capacity in the U.K., reducing the cost of energy to make
our industries much more competitive, lots of nudging of
transport infrastructure,” Wilson said.  The firm’s senior management “are strong supporters of
shale gas,” he said. “You can see the very positive impact
it’s having in America with gas prices making the U.S. economy
much more competitive. The same can happen over here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 