-- Egypt Stocks Drop as MSCI Says FX Shortage May Trigger Downgrade
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a   a n d   T a m i m   E l y a n
-- 2013-06-12T11:04:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/egypt-stocks-drop-as-msci-says-fx-shortage-may-trigger-downgrade.html
Egypt ’s shares headed for a year low
after MSCI Inc. said it may review the nation’s emerging-market
status if the foreign-currency situation worsens. Morocco’s
index was little changed as it was cut to frontier status.  The EGX 30 Index tumbled 3.8 percent to 4,662.94 as of
12:32 p.m. in Cairo, poised for the lowest close since June
2012. The measure, the second-worst performer today among 94
indexes tracked by Bloomberg, has fallen 22 percent since a
September 26 peak. A drop of 20 percent or more signals a so-called  bear market  to some investors.  MSCI said it “may be forced” to consider excluding Egypt
from its emerging-market indexes “were the situation on the
Egyptian foreign-exchange market to worsen and result in the
inability of international investors to repatriate their
funds.” Egyptian shares have slumped this year as political
unrest hindered an economic recovery and as the pound weakened 9
percent amid central bank efforts to curtail a drop in foreign-currency reserves. Egypt was added to MSCI’s EM index in 2001.  “The mood is very negative,” Ahmed Abu Taleb, foreign
sales trader at Cairo-based Pharos Securities, said by phone.
“Concerns are high after MSCI reclassification talks.”  Morocco Reversal  Orascom Construction  Industries, the biggest stock on the
EGX 30 with a 28 percent weighting, slumped 3 percent, the most
since March, to 227.1 pounds. The company will ask shareholders
this month to approve a plan that will involve swapping their
shares with stocks in Amsterdam-listed  OCI NV (OCI)  or selling them
for 255 pounds a piece. The potential exit of Orascom
Construction from the EGX “will increase the likelihood” of an
MSCI downgrade, Abu Taleb said.  Morocco’s benchmark MADEX Free Float Index was little
changed at 7,080.63, near the lowest level since 2006. MSCI cut
the country from emerging-market status due to its failure to
meet liquidity standards for several years. The trend “has
shown no sign of reversal,” it said.  “Foreigners appear to have already made their moves before
this downgrade, which lacked the element of surprise,” said
Bachir Tazi, head of sales and trading at Casablanca Finance
Group. “Morocco will need to improve liquidity and the
freefloat of its stock exchange in order to make the most of a
bigger weighting on the MSCI FM Index.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net ;
Tamim Elyan in Cairo at 
 telyan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  