-- Eight Charged in Hacking Theft From Dozen Financial Firms
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-06-12T22:17:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/eight-charged-in-hacking-theft-from-dozen-financial-firms.html
Eight people were charged with
hacking customer accounts at more than a dozen financial
institutions, including  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
and trying to steal at least $15 million.  The ring was run by Oleksiy Sharapka, 33, of Kiev, Ukraine,
with help from Leonid Yanovitsky, 38, also of Kiev, U.S.
Attorney Paul Fishman said today in a statement. They remain at
large, although U.S. authorities arrested four others, Fishman
said. Sharapka finished an 8 1/2-year U.S. prison term last
year.  “Cybercriminals penetrated some of our most trusted
financial institutions as part of a global scheme that stole
money and identities,” Fishman said in a statement. They used
stolen identities to “‘cash out’ hacked accounts in a series of
internationally coordinated modern-day bank robberies.”  The scheme involved hacking into the networks of companies
including Citigroup and JPMorgan Chase and moving money from the
accounts of customers to accounts controlled by crews of
“cashers,” authorities said. They then made withdrawals from
automated teller machines and fraudulent purchases in New York,
 Massachusetts ,  Illinois ,  Georgia  and elsewhere, Fishman said.  Sharapka and Yanovitsky oversaw Oleg Pidtergerya, 49, of
Brooklyn, New York; Robert Dubuc, 40, of Malden, Massachusetts;
and Andrey Yarmolitskiy, 41, of Atlanta, who managed “cash out
crews” in their respective cities, according to the U.S. Secret
Service, which investigated the case with the U.S. Internal
Revenue Service and the Immigration and Customs Enforcement’s
Homeland Security Investigations.  Airport Arrest  Pidtergerya, Dubuc and Ilya Ostapyuk, 31, of Brooklyn, were
arrested today, and Yarmolitskiy was arrested yesterday at John
F. Kennedy International Airport as he arrived on an
international flight, according to Fishman.  Pidtergerya was ordered detained today after appearing in
federal court in Newark, New Jersey. Ostapyuk was released on a
$200,000 bond. Yarmolitskiy hasn’t appeared in court yet. Dubuc
was expected to appear today in federal court in  Boston .  The defendants are charged with three conspiracies: to
commit wire fraud; to commit money laundering; and to commit
identity theft. They face 20 years in prison on the most serious
charge.  The case is U.S. v. Sharapka, 13-mj-06089, U.S. District
Court, District of New Jersey ( Newark ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at o
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 