-- Elan Risking $2 Billion If Royalty Pharma Walks: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2013-06-12T20:39:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/elan-risking-2-billion-if-royalty-pharma-walks-real-m-a.html
Elan Corp. (ELN)  shareholders risk losing
$2 billion by listening to the company’s board and rejecting
Royalty Pharma’s takeover bid.  While Royalty Pharma boosted its unsolicited offer to as
much as $15.50 a share this month, at least five analysts
covering Dublin-based Elan see the stock falling if that bid
disappears, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. UBS AG
estimates a 28 percent  plunge  to $9.70, which would wipe out $2
billion of market value.  Shareholders vote next week on whether to endorse the sale
to Royalty Pharma or back Elan Chief Executive Officer Kelly Martin’s strategy of buying drug rights as an independent
company. Even after Elan said June 10 that other potential
suitors had emerged, S&P Capital IQ said Royalty Pharma is
probably the only realistic option. Leerink Swann LLC said Elan
shareholders should accept the Royalty Pharma transaction.  “The acquisition is really supporting the stock price at
this point,” Steven Silver, a New York-based equity analyst at
S&P, said in a telephone interview. “While Elan’s management
continues to outright dismiss all of Royalty Pharma’s offers, I
would think that the raised offer should entice some Elan
shareholders. It’s a fair offer.”  Royalty Pharma sweetened its bid on June 7 to $13 a share
in cash plus as much as $2.50 a share in additional payments if
performance targets are met. This was its fourth attempt to
purchase Elan in less than four months, following an $11-a-share
bid in February and $11.25 and $12.50 offers in May.  Maintaining Pressure  While investors viewed the starting bids as too low, the
latest offer may finally be enough to close the deal, said Keith Moore, an event-driven strategist at MKM Partners LLC in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut .  “Royalty Pharma has kept up the pressure,” he said in a
phone interview. “Shareholders are most likely going to side
with Royalty Pharma now. Ultimately, it was going to be hard for
Elan to fight the battle.”  Representatives for Elan declined to elaborate beyond its
recent comments to shareholders. Elan said June 3 that Royalty
Pharma’s bid is too low because its interest in Tysabri and net
cash should be valued at $15.50 to $20.80 a share. The stock
closed at $13.56 yesterday.  No Products  Elan ended development of Alzheimer’s medicine bapineuzumab
last year after it failed to improve symptoms. It then sold its
stake in multiple sclerosis treatment Tysabri to  Biogen Idec
Inc. (BIIB)  for $3.25 billion of cash. While Elan receives a royalty on
the drug’s revenue, the sale left it without any major products.  Selling to Royalty Pharma would enable shareholders to
avoid the risks of CEO Martin’s plan to reinvest the cash.
Elan’s owners will vote June 17 on four transactions he’s
proposed: a $1 billion investment in Theravance Inc.’s
royalties; a 263.5 million euro ($351 million) takeover of AOP
Orphan Pharmaceuticals AG; the spin-out of an experimental
Alzheimer’s drug called ELND005 to Speranza Therapeutics; and
$200 million in share  buybacks .  If the proposals are voted down, Royalty Pharma will be
allowed to proceed with its acquisition of Elan.  Today, Elan shares lost 3.4 percent, the most in four
months, to $13.10.  The decline “suggests that some Elan stockholders are
worried that Elan’s proposals may be approved, leading Royalty
Pharma to have to lapse its offer,” Royalty Pharma CEO Pablo Legorreta said in a statement today. “If Elan’s proposals are
approved and Royalty Pharma’s offer does lapse, I would expect
Elan’s stock price to fall far further. I urge Elan stockholders
to vote against all four of Elan’s proposals.”  Analysts Puzzled  Elan’s recent estimate that it should be valued at $15.50
to $20.80 left analysts such as Leerink Swann’s Marko Kozul
puzzled.  “I don’t think those numbers are anywhere near
realistic,” San Francisco-based Kozul said in a phone
interview. “We would recommend that shareholders take the
deal.”  Deutsche Bank AG estimates Elan’s value as a standalone
entity is $12.10, while Royal Bank of Canada sees the stock
falling to at least $12 in the absence of a takeover. MKM sees
it tumbling to $11, and Leerink Swann’s Kozul pegs it at $10.  Guillaume van Renterghem, a London-based UBS analyst,
suggests $9.70, which would give Elan a market capitalization of
$4.96 billion, down from $6.93 billion yesterday.  Undervaluing Tysabri  Elan said June 10 that Royalty Pharma’s revised takeover
proposal still undervalues its rights to Tysabri. The drug is
already marketed as a once-monthly intravenous infusion for
relapsing forms of MS and generated about $1.6 billion in  sales 
last year. It’s also being tested for another form of the
disease called secondary-progressive MS. Results of the trial
are expected in 2015.  Royalty Pharma said it will make its first CVR payment to
Elan shareholders if Tysabri receives approval from the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration for expanded usage.  Physicians that Kozul surveyed planned to increase use of
Tysabri in secondary-progressive MS by 18 percent on average if
the trial succeeds. That would add about 80 cents a share to his
$10 fair value estimate for Elan, though he said not to count on
positive results from the trial.  “Royalty Pharma’s being quite generous in providing up to
$2.50 when our survey is telling us that the average benefit
would be only 80 cents,” he said.  Additional Interest  Still, RBC’s Michael Yee said some traders are betting on a
higher offer, either from Royalty Pharma or another suitor. A
specialty pharmaceutical company could acquire Elan to take
advantage of its low Irish corporate tax rate, the San
Francisco-based analyst said.  Elan has hired  Citigroup Inc. (C)  to assess “several
unsolicited corporate enquiries.”  For other acquirers, the tax benefits from a takeover of
Elan and possible cost-cutting opportunities may not be enough
to justify a deal,  David Maris , a New York-based analyst at Bank
of Montreal, said in an interview this week. While generic
drugmaker Mylan Inc. and Forest Laboratories Inc., which
develops an Alzheimer’s drug, have the wherewithal to buy Elan,
it wouldn’t make much sense, Maris said.  Nina Devlin, a spokeswoman for Canonsburg, Pennsylvania-based Mylan, declined to comment on whether it’s weighing a bid
for Elan. Frank Murdolo of New York-based Forest Labs didn’t
respond to a phone call or e-mail.  With much of Elan’s shareholder base now made up of merger
arbitrage funds, the odds the company is sold to Royalty Pharma
have increased, MKM’s Moore said.  Selling Shareholders  Fidelity Investments and Wellington Management Co. are
among institutional investors that cut their Elan  stakes  during
the first quarter. Fidelity, which remains the biggest
shareholder, sold off about one-third of its holdings. In May,
Royalty Pharma CEO Legorreta said those reductions are a sign
the owners were content with the takeover offer.  Nicole Goodnow, a spokeswoman at Fidelity, declined to
comment. A representative at Wellington didn’t return a phone
call seeking comment yesterday. The investment firm had declined
last month to respond to Legorreta’s comments.  Investors will probably vote against Elan’s proposals,
putting pressure on the company to strike a friendly deal with
Royalty Pharma at a higher price, according to John Maysles, an
event-driven senior analyst at Elevation LLC in Los Angeles. If
Elan continues to fight the deal, Royalty Pharma could just go
through with a hostile takeover if it has enough shareholder
support, Maysles said in a phone interview.  “The market’s looking for Royalty to sweeten one last
time,” he said. “It will come down to whether or not the two
parties talk and are able to negotiate a higher bid. If not,
Royalty Pharma can go directly to shareholders with what they
have now or maybe a slightly improved cash offer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  