-- Emaar to Build $2 Billion Iraq Kurdish Resort, Official Says
-- B y   K h a l i d   A l - A n s a r y   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2013-06-12T12:03:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/emaar-set-to-build-2-billion-iraq-kurdish-resort-official-says.html
Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR)  of Dubai and
Kurdish company Faruk Group Holding will soon sign a contract
valued at more than $2 billion to develop a resort in  Iraq ’s
oil-rich Kurdish region in the north, a government official
said.  The Dukan tourist city project will be built in
Sulaymaniyah near the border with  Iran , Herish Muharam Muhamad,
chairman of Kurdistan Regional Government’s investment board,
said in an interview in the regional capital, Erbil. The resort
at the artificial lake Dukan will include hotels, restaurants
and residential areas as well as cinemas and casinos, he said.  The semi-autonomous Kurdish region has become a focal point
for tourists and business visitors even as much of Iraq
continues to face political and ethnic violence following the
war that toppled  Saddam Hussein . Emaar, which has the heaviest
weighting on Dubai’s benchmark stock index, last year signed an
agreement with Iraq government officials to develop housing and
tourism projects in the country.  Faruk Group Holding comprises 12 companies in businesses
including construction, telecommunications, cement, hospitality
and retail. It is Iraq’s largest private company, with 11,000
employees, according to Faruk’s website.  Emaar is bidding for a $5 billion housing project in
central Iraq, Mohammed Ameen, vice chairman of Iraq’s National
Investment Commission, said in an April 1 interview in  Baghdad .
Iraq has allocated more than $31 billion to address a
residential shortage estimated at more than 670,000 homes. Emaar
didn’t immediately reply to an e-mail seeking comment on the
Kurdish resort project.  Emaar climbed as much as 6.4 percent today after  MSCI Inc. (MSCI) 
upgraded the United Arab Emirates to emerging market status from
frontier. The shares closed up 2.8 percent as of the 2 p.m.
market close.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Khalid Al-Ansary in Baghdad at 
 kalansary@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  