-- Emerging-Market Bond Anxieties Surging by Most Since 2008
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2013-06-12T15:51:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/emerging-market-bond-anxieties-surging-by-most-since-2008.html
The biggest drop in perceived
creditworthiness for emerging-market borrowers since the credit
crisis is deepening as speculation intensifies that central
banks will scale back record stimulus.  Prices on the Markit CDX  Emerging Markets  index, a credit-default swaps benchmark for debtor nations from  Latin America  to
the Middle East and  Asia , have tumbled 4 cents in the two weeks
through yesterday to 107 cents on the dollar. The decline is the
biggest since the failure of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
reverberated across financial markets and caused the index to
plunge 6.7 cents in the period ended Nov. 18, 2008.  Investors who eight weeks ago were willing to lend  Rwanda 
$400 million at an interest rate of 6.625 percent in its first
debt offering are now struggling to find any haven as  developing 
countries bear the brunt of the global bond rout. Emerging-market bonds have fallen 6.3 percent since the start of May,
almost triple the overall market, as speculation mounts the
 Federal Reserve  will lead policy makers in reducing support to
bolster growth as economies from China to Brazil slow.  “There’s nowhere to run and nowhere to hide” from the
unwinding of central-bank programs including quantitative easing
in the U.S., said Jack Deino, a senior  money manager  who helps
oversee about $2.7 billion in emerging-market assets at Invesco
Ltd. in  New York . “There’s been just a lot of money out there
looking for yield. Part of the selloff is attributable to the
pulling back of QE, and you can’t do anything about that.”  Littered Floor  Prices on Markit Group Ltd.’s emerging markets index of
credit-default swaps, which typically rise as investor
confidence improves, have fallen to the lowest level since
November 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s
down from 114.3 on Jan. 3, the highest since April 2011.  The loss on emerging-market debt since reaching an all-time
high on May 2 on JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Total Return
Index compares with a 2.3 percent decline on the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch Global Broad Market Index.  A $500 million 4.875 percent Bolivian bond issued in
October and due in 2022 has tumbled to 93.5 cents from as high
as 102.5 cents on the dollar on May 6, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg.  “The floor is littered with knives,” Jeremy Brewin, who
oversees more than $5 billion of fixed-income assets as the head
of emerging-market debt at Aviva Investors, in  London . “In a
selloff, it’s a random experience. As much as I try to prove
where things should be, I cannot.”  Hiding Places  Yields for borrowers in  developing countries  have climbed
to 5.02 percent after reaching an unprecedented low of 4.04
percent on Jan. 24, according to the Bank of America Merrill
Lynch U.S. Emerging Markets External Debt Sovereign and
Corporate Plus Index. Relative yields on the debt reached 352
basis points, or 3.52 percentage points, the most since
September.  “Safe assets are not entirely safe anymore,” Jeffrey Shen, head of emerging markets at BlackRock Inc., the world’s
largest asset manager, said in an e-mail. “There’s not a whole
lot of places to hide in the higher risk asset classes.”  Central bank policies holding down benchmark  interest rates 
have enabled companies to  borrow  $1.9 trillion this year, 6
percent ahead of the pace in 2012, a record year with $3.97
trillion in sales, Bloomberg data show.  Tapering Signs  Investors are watching for signs of tapering after Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said May 22 that the central bank could
reduce $85 billion in monthly Treasury and mortgage debt
purchases within “the next few meetings” if officials see
signs of sustainable improvement in the labor market.  The  Bank of Japan  refrained yesterday from extending the
length of loans it uses to smooth bond market volatility,
according to a policy statement in  Tokyo . Twenty of 23 analysts
in a Bloomberg News survey forecast the BOJ would approve loans
of two years or longer, or said that such a move was possible.  “It may be that we are seeing what happens when an
overbought risk asset market adjusts to life without central
bank largesse,” Gavan Nolan, director of credit research at
Markit, wrote yesterday in a note to clients.  Spreads on emerging-market debt are normalizing after
reaching “artificially low levels,” Nolan said in a telephone
interview. Investors had failed to pay sufficient attention to
each borrower’s risk when policies from the Fed and Bank of
 Japan  drove money into developing-country funds, he said.  Funds Yanked  Investors pulled $1.5 billion from emerging-market bond
funds in the week ended June 5, or 0.6 percent, paring this
year’s inflows to 10.1 percent, according to EPFR data compiled
by Bank of America Corp. strategist Jane Brauer.  “We’ve had a great run and now we have some doubt creeping
into the picture,” said  Scott MacDonald , head of research at MC
Asset Management Holdings LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , which
has about $600 million of assets.  Developing economies will grow 5.3 percent this year, the
 International Monetary Fund  said April 16, after forecasting in
January that growth would reach 5.5 percent. The forecast calls
for growth of 1.2 percent for their advanced counterparts.  Rwanda’s expansion may slow to 7.5 percent this year from
7.7 percent in 2012, the IMF’s mission chief to the country
Paulo Drummond said April 16. The country, rated B by both
Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings, five levels below
investment grade, sold its debt April 16 at the lowest end of
yield guidance given to investors, a person with knowledge of
the deal said in April.  Turkey Protests  Anti-government protests in Turkey are threatening to drive
away investors who had been lured by higher yields, falling debt
levels and credit-rating upgrades. Credit swaps tied to Turkish
debt, which pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet
its obligations, soared to 184 basis points yesterday from this
year’s low of 110.9 on May 9, Bloomberg data show.  “That’s reminding people that political risk is still
present,” Markit’s Nolan said. “When you’ve got this massive
excess liquidity in the market, the likes of the political risk
of Turkey can get overlooked.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate bonds from default in the U.S. rose. The Markit CDX
North American Investment Grade Index, which investors use to
hedge against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness,
increased 0.6 basis point to a mid-price of 86.2 basis points as
of 11:47 a.m. in New York, according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg.  Rate Swaps  The index typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, decreased 0.95 basis point to 16.75 basis
points as of 11:48 a.m. in New York. The gauge narrows when
investors favor assets such as company debentures and widens
when they seek the perceived safety of  government securities .  Bonds of Fairfield, Connecticut-based  General Electric Co. (GE) 
are the most actively traded dollar-denominated corporate
securities by dealers today, accounting for 5.3 percent of the
volume of dealer trades of $1 million or more as of 11:48 a.m.
in New York, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system
of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The  Bloomberg Global Investment Grade Corporate Bond index 
has gained 0.25 percent this month, paring the  decline  for the
year to 1.52 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  