-- Safeway Rises on Planned Canada Stores Sale: S.F. Mover
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2013-06-13T20:45:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/empire-s-sobeys-to-buy-safeway-canada-for-5-7-billion.html
Safeway Inc. (SWY) , the second-largest
U.S. grocery-store chain, rose the most in more than three
months after agreeing to sell its Canadian stores to  Empire
Co. (EMP/A) ’s Sobeys Inc. unit for about C$5.8 billion ($5.7 billion).  Safeway  rose  7.4 percent to $24.82 at the close in  New York 
for the biggest gain since Feb. 21. Empire advanced 11 percent
to C$74.77 in Toronto, the most since 2001.  Proceeds from the sale will be used to pay down $2 billion
in debt and buy back stock, Pleasanton, California-based Safeway
said yesterday in a statement. The boards of both companies have
approved the deal.  The sale will give Safeway a jolt of cash as new Chief
Executive Officer Robert Edwards, who took over May 14, works to
reverse slowing sales gains amid competition from  Kroger Co. (KR)  and
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  The deal also will simplify Safeway’s
business.  The chain now “can focus on the core U.S. operations,”
said  Joe Feldman , a New York-based analyst at Telsey Advisory
Group. “They just have a cleaner business” and can concentrate
on the company’s new loyalty and fuel-rewards programs.  The acquisition will give Sobeys 213 full-service grocery
stores in Western  Canada , along with 199 in-store pharmacies and
12 manufacturing facilities, to help it compete better with
 Loblaw Cos. (L)   ‘Leadership Position’  “It certainly catapults them to be more dominant
everywhere between British Columbia and Ontario,” Feldman said
yesterday in an interview. “Safeway has a leadership position
in a lot of the markets up in Canada” and they also own much of
the stores’ real estate, which makes the business more
profitable, he said.  “Those couple of things gave Sobeys the desire to spend
up,” Feldman said.  Safeway Canada reported C$6.7 billion in revenue and C$428
million in operating profit in the 12 months ended March 23. The
acquisition will immediately add to adjusted earnings per share,
Stellarton, Nova Scotia-based Empire said yesterday in a
statement. Safeway’s real estate is worth about C$1.8 billion in
Canada, it said.  Sobeys, founded 106 years ago, will use Safeway to expand
in western Canada and take on Brampton, Ontario-based Loblaw,
the country’s biggest grocery retailer, as well as Wal-Mart and
 Target Corp. (TGT) , which are adding stores in Canada. Minneapolis-based Target has said it will open 124 locations in Canada this
year.  Canadian Expansion  Wal-Mart also is bolstering its presence in Canada. The
Bentonville, Arkansas-based retailer is investing C$450 million
in new supercenters and renovations in the country. It’s also
increasing its distribution network, according to a company
statement from January.  Sobeys owns or franchises more than 1,300 stores in 10
provinces with retail banners that include Sobeys, IGA,
Foodland, FreshCo and Thrifty Foods. The company also operates
Lawton’s Drug Stores. It has 95,000 employees.  The Empire acquisition is the second-largest involving a
Canadian company this year, surpassed only by the $8.7 billion
takeover of Bausch & Lomb Holdings Inc. by Montreal-based
Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc. announced May 27.  Revenue at Safeway has stagnated recently. Sales rose 1.3
percent last year to $44.2 billion and may increase 1.3 percent
to $44.8 billion in 2013, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The company, which trails Kroger as the largest U.S.
grocery-store chain, had $5.3 billion of long-term debt as of
March 23.  “We believe a significant factor in the strategic
rationale for this sale was the need to de-lever the balance
sheet,” said Ajay Jain, an analyst at  Cantor Fitzgerald  in New
York, in a research note yesterday. “Now the focus for
investors will be the core U.S. operations, which continues to
lose market share,” he said.  “Safeway will remain heavily levered and profitability of
U.S. operations will continue to decline,” Jain predicted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  