-- EQT Said to Lean Toward Sale to BC Amid Concern About IPO
-- B y   K i e l   P o r t e r   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2013-06-12T17:52:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/eqt-said-to-lean-toward-sale-to-bc-amid-concern-about-ipo.html
EQT Partners AB, a Swedish buyout
firm, is leaning toward a sale of German academic publisher
Springer Science & Business Media GmbH to BC Partners Ltd. amid
concern that an initial public offering would not fetch the
desired amount, said people familiar with the matter.  BC Partners, a private-equity firm based in London, has
offered about 3.1 billion euros ($4.1 billion) and EQT is
seeking about 3.25 billion euros, said the people, who asked not
to be identified as talks are private. EQT had earlier sought
about 3.5 billion euros, they said. While the firms are still
trying to reach an agreement on price, the talks may fall apart
or an IPO could be chosen, they said.  Springer Science said June 5 that it plans to raise about
760 million euros in an IPO and shares would start trading in
 Frankfurt  before the summer break. The Stockholm-based buyout
firm, which bought the company jointly with the Government of
Singapore Investment Corp. in 2009, is still accepting takeover
offers and BC Partners was the sole bidder to hand in an offer,
people familiar with the matter said yesterday.  The Euro Stoxx 50, a measure of shares in nations using the
common currency, has declined three days in a row, bringing this
month’s slump to 3 percent. A potential Springer Science listing
would compete with Kion Group GmbH, the world’s second-largest
maker of forklifts, and Deutsche Annington Immobilien AG, the
country’s largest residential landlord, which both launched IPOs
this month.  Spokesmen at BC Partners, EQT and Springer Science declined
to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in  London  at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  