-- Merck Joins Novo to Reassure FDA of Diabetes Drug Safety
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-06-12T14:57:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/merck-joins-novo-to-reassure-safetynof-diabetes-drugs.html
Merck & Co. (MRK) ,  Novo Nordisk A/S (NOVOB)  and
other makers of popular treatments for diabetes may be asked to
collect more data on a potential cancer link even as they try to
reassure U.S. regulators this week of the drugs’ safety.  The  Food and Drug Administration  said it’s considering
setting up a study, either through the agency or the companies,
that looks deeper into whether medicines for  Type 2 diabetes ,
including Merck’s Januvia and Bristol Myers-Squibb Co.’s Byetta,
cause pancreatic cell growth that could turn cancerous. One
option is a large clinical trial designed to show patterns of
adverse events, said Morgan Liscinsky, an FDA spokeswoman.  A debate swirled in the medical community in March with
talk of unpublished findings that the FDA said may show pre-cancerous cellular changes in diabetics taking drugs called
incretin mimetics. The FDA is reviewing the data and scientists
from the agency and the companies are gathering today at the
 National Institutes of Health  to sort it out.  “We need some calm heads and to look at the data and try
and make some reasonable judgments out of this,” Robert Ratner,
chief scientific and medical officer of the  American Diabetes
Association , said in an interview. “We are all anxious to be
sure the therapies we have available are safe, but we also want
to make sure we have therapies available.”  Encouraging Signs  According to documents distributed at today’s meeting, at
least some FDA scientists said the report that arose in March
didn’t really show a direct link to significant cancer risk. The
scientists said additional data mining of the agency’s adverse
event database “is unlikely to shed more light” and what is
needed is “adequately powered, long-term epidemiological
data.”  “The FDA basically appears to just be saying ‘look, there
just isn’t enough information here to make an informed decision
and the only evidence that will help us’” are properly designed
trials,  Mark Schoenebaum , an analyst with International Strategy
& Investment Group, said in a note to clients. While it’s “too
early to draw any kind of conclusion here, the early signs are
encouraging.”  Incretin mimetics help regulate blood sugar by stimulating
insulin production by the pancreas and their prescribing labels
carry warnings about the risk of inflammation of the organ.
Merck’s Januvia had $4.1 billion in revenue last year, while
Novo’s Victoza generated $1.6 billion and New York-based
Bristol-Myers’s Byetta $149 million, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  2007 Reports  Doctors have been concerned that this category of diabetes
treatments may damage the pancreas since the FDA said in 2007 it
received a high number of reports of pancreatitis in those
taking Byetta. The agency issued a similar alert for Januvia in
2009. An analysis of insurance records published in February in
the journal JAMA Internal Medicine showed such drugs may double
a user’s risk of pancreatitis.  Some data have been “overzealously interpreted,” said
Alan Moses, global chief medical officer at Bagsvaerd, Denmark-based Novo Nordisk, which makes the drug Victoza.  “That’s a real challenge for patients out there who are
taking this medicine and we have no conclusive evidence that
there’s a problem and they’re being scared to death,” he said.  Moses will present interim data at the two-day NIH meeting
from a post-approval study on incidence of thyroid cancer for
Victoza users as well as pancreatitis and cancerous tumors.  Safety Assurances  “I am very reassured in the data that we have,” he said
in an interview. “I am hoping the listeners in the room will be
likewise reassured.”  Merck, the second-largest U.S. drugmaker, said it will
present an updated safety analysis for Januvia, its top-selling
product, using data from 25 trials. Peter Stein, vice president
of clinical research for  Whitehouse Station , New Jersey-based
Merck, declined to say whether the FDA has talked to the company
about an epidemiological study. He said the drugmaker is
providing the agency with requested information.  Merck said in a statement today it’s willing to participate
in an independent review of data called for by the American
Diabetes Association.  FDA researchers plan to tell those gathered at the NIH
meeting that animal studies conducted early in the regulatory
review process for those drugs showed that data on pancreatic
cellular changes are “weak to absent,” Liscinsky said in an e-mail.  Novo Database  “There has been no causal relationship established between
exposure to incretin mimetics and pancreatitis, pancreatic
cancer and thyroid cancer,” she said. “There have been several
hypothesis generating studies, as well as many negative studies
exploring these signals” in humans.  Novo is in the middle of a five-year epidemiological study
using a large health-care claims database to look for incidence
of thyroid cancer as well as pancreatitis and cancerous tumors.  Merck, Novo and Bristol-Myers also are conducting post-market studies on the heart safety of the diabetes drugs.
Bristol-Myers said it and  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  have two such trials
that will provide additional data on the pancreatic risks as
well. Data from the first of those trials is expected later in
2013, Bristol-Myers said in an e-mail.  Agnostic Group  While there is much dispute over the drugs’ safety, what is
recognized is that diabetes and pancreatitis are associated with
pancreatic cancer, said David Whitcomb, co-chairman of the NIH
meeting and chief of the division of gastroenterology,
hepatology and nutrition at the  University of Pittsburgh .  A study published in March in Diabetes, the journal of the
American Diabetes Association, on diabetics’ pancreases showed a
40 percent increase in cell changes that could lead to cancer
for those taking incretin mimetics.  The meeting this week will attempt to better understand how
the cancer develops and whether different treatments or
biomarkers might be involved, he said. Whitcomb said he hopes
the discussion will inform future studies.  “We’re an agnostic group that just wants to focus on the
details of the organ,” Whitcomb said in an interview. “It is
not to assess risk or benefit, that’s the job of the FDA.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  