-- Merkel Targets Renewables to Support More Grid Costs
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a   a n d   T i n o   A n d r e s e n
-- 2013-06-12T11:41:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/merkel-targets-renewables-to-support-more-grid-costs.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  said
renewable power producers should be forced to pay more for
supporting upgrades of  Germany ’s electricity grid, signaling
“substantial” changes ahead for the nation’s clean energy law.  Germany’s leader said she’s in favor of keeping a lid on
the cost of electricity as the nation closes its nuclear
reactors over the next decade, which will require changes to the
EEG clean-energy law. She said the rules should be amended so
that wind turbines are added in locations where they produce
electricity more efficiently.  “I don’t want to give up the priority feed-in” for
renewables, Merkel said at a conference in Berlin today. “It
will, however, become necessary for those who get renewable
energy subsidies to participate more in grid expansion, overall
supply, storage development and similar things, whcih means we
need an integration of the energy system.”  The comments indicate the depth of the government’s concern
about rising power prices less than four months before federal
elections scheduled for Sept. 22. Consumers in Europe’s biggest
economy have seen power bills climb this year after a fee they
pay for renewables jumped 47 percent to a record.  While all of Germany’s major parties agree that the energy
law must be changed, they differ on exactly how to engineeer the
shift away from nuclear power and toward tripling the share of
renewables in the power mix by 2050.  Legal Change  The EEG needs to be “urgently” changed, and a new
government must start implementing changes early next year,
Peter Terium, chief executive officer of  RWE AG (RWE) , Germany’s
second-largest utility, said at the same conference.  Talks between her government and state leaders on proposals
to stop power prices from rising broke down in April, delaying
more concrete steps from being taken until after the election.  Merkel’s government wants more efficient gas-fired plants
to back up wind turbines and solar panels, which don’t generate
round- the-clock supplies, although her comments today indicated
she’s looking for a way to reduce fossil fuels over the longer
term.  The chancellor expressed concern that a glut of carbon
emissions permits in the European Union’s market is creating
“total distortions” in the market that are benefiting coal-fired power stations over cleaner ones that use natural gas.
While her government hasn’t agreed a position on how to reduce
the glut, she said the idea that coal benefits “can’t be right
in the long term.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net ;
Tino Andresen in Dusseldorf at 
 tandresen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  