-- EU Parties’ Negotiators in Draft CO2 Deal, Seeber Says
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-06-12T17:09:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/eu-parties-negotiators-reach-tentative-carbon-deal-seeber-says.html
Climate negotiators from political
groups in the European Parliament’s environment committee
reached a tentative compromise on a fix for the world’s biggest
carbon market, according to a European Union lawmaker.  The deal, which needs backing by political groups before a
vote on the measure scheduled for June 19, will restrict the
original proposal to delay auctions of some carbon permits in
order to help prices rebound, according to Richard Seeber, a
member of the European  People’s Party . A majority of lawmakers
from his group, the biggest in the EU assembly, was against the
measure in the previous vote on April 16.  The price of emission allowances in the EU program slumped
to a record in April amid a glut of permits aggravated by the
 economic slowdown . A strategy to temporarily curb the oversupply
has divided EU governments, industry and members of the
Parliament. After the assembly declined to support it in the
first vote it was sent to the environment committee for further
talks before the second plenary vote on July 2 in Strasbourg.  “Today, we found a compromise mainly between EPP,
Socialists and Democrats, and Alliance of Liberals and Democrats
for  Europe , which is heavily improving the original proposal of
the European Commission,” Seeber said in a telephone interview
from Strasbourg,  France . Support from the three parties would
ensure a majority in favor of the compromise agreement.  Carbon Jumps  EU carbon permits for delivery in December jumped as much
as 8.3 percent, the most in five weeks, and closed 7.1 percent
higher at 4.50 euros ($7.06) a metric ton on the ICE Futures
Europe exchange in London. The contract lost about 86 percent in
the past four years and fell to as low as 2.46 euros a ton.  The preliminary compromise ironed out today includes
limiting the planned market intervention to a one-time move,
capping the number of permits to be delayed at 900 million and a
provision that postponed allowances won’t be permanently
removed, according to Seeber. Installations under the EU’s
system emitted about 1.8 billion tons last year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The draft compromise would make the passage of the measure
in the whole assembly “very likely” if the three parties
officially back the deal, according to Itamar Orlandi, an
analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance in  London . The proposal
would then become subject to negotiations with the EU Council of
Ministers in a process known as trilogue, which also involves
the commission.  ‘Far-Ranging Concessions’  “The relatively far-ranging concessions widen the scope of
the trilogue negotiations with the council and the commission,
which may oppose some of the elements of the deal,” Orlandi
said by e-mail. “That could complicate the negotiations and
delay the adoption” of the draft legislative change to enable
temporary curbs of oversupply.  Permits delayed at auctions will need to be reintroduced to
the market “in a linear manner, immediately after the last
allowances are taken out,” Seeber said. The draft compromise
also urges extension of a list of companies prone to relocating
production to regions without emission curbs until 2020 and
creation of a fund to help innovative industry projects, he
said.  Of the 900 million permits that the commission seeks to
delay, 600 million will be earmarked for the fund, according to
the deal reached today.  “We don’t want the ETS to be a simple cash cow for
national governments,” Seeber said. “We want to make sure the
money is used for technological innovation in CO2 reduction and
 energy efficiency .”  The EPP is to decide on whether to back the compromise on
June 18.  “I’ll go to the EPP to look for support for this
position,” Seeber said. “I’ll propose that my group accept
that.”  Eija-Riitta Korhola, a Finnish member of the EU Parliament
who oversees the backloading proposal in the EPP, said the
group’s position was open as long as she hasn’t seen the draft
compromise, according to a posting on her Twitter Inc. account
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at   lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  