-- EU Rights Official Asks Holder to Clarify PRISM Program
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-06-13T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/eu-rights-official-asks-holder-to-clarify-prism-program.html
European Union Commissioner Viviane Reding asked U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder for more
information on the U.S. surveillance program Prism and its
consequences for the rights of EU citizens.  “Given the gravity of the situation and the serious
concerns expressed in public opinion on this side of the
Atlantic, you will understand that I will expect swift and
concrete answers to these questions,” Reding said, according to
a copy of a June 10 letter to Holder obtained by Bloomberg News.  Reding, the European Commission’s vice president for
justice, fundamental rights and citizenship, said she has
serious concerns about reports that the U.S. is accessing and
processing data of EU citizens who are using U.S. online service
providers.  A former U.S. national security contractor, Edward Snowden,
disclosed the secret program to collect a vast trove of domestic
telephone and international Internet data. The June 5 disclosure
sparked a criminal investigation by the Justice Department,
calls for the surveillance to be reined in, and a lawsuit
accusing the government of violating the privacy and free-speech
rights of its citizens.  Formal Channels  In her letter, Reding said the U.S. should use existing
formal channels for the exchange of information to prevent or
investigate criminal activity. Direct access by U.S. law
enforcement to data of EU citizens on U.S. servers should be
excluded other than in “clearly defined, exceptional and
judicially reviewable situations,” she said.  “Trust that the rule of law will be respected is also
essential to the stability and growth of the digital economy,
including transatlantic business,” Reding said. “It is of
paramount importance for individuals and companies alike.”  The once-secret Prism program that Snowden revealed and
that is now acknowledged by the U.S. director of national
intelligence, collected e-mails and other data from nine
companies including Google Inc., Microsoft Corp. and Apple Inc.,
according to National Security Agency slides Snowden provided to
the Guardian and Washington Post.  Reding asked Holder to explain at a June 14 meeting whether
the Prism program is aimed at EU citizens, whether the data
collected is limited to specific and individual cases, what the
scope of the program is, and what avenues are available to
challenge access to the data, among other questions.  Andrew Ames, a spokesman for the Justice Department’s
national security division, declined to comment on Reding’s
letter.  German Minister  German Justice Minister Sabine Leutheusser-Schnarrenberg
has also requested Holder for information about the legal
foundation of the Prism program.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  plans to raise  Germany ’s concerns
about U.S government surveillance with President  Barack Obama 
when he visits Berlin next week. Her government also sent a list
of questions to the U.S. government as well as Internet
companies following reports of wide-scale American spying,
German government spokesman Steffen Seibert said yesterday.  General Keith Alexander, the director of the NSA, told U.S.
senators at a hearing yesterday that the surveillance of
telephone records of millions of Americans has disrupted or
contributed to disrupting “dozens” of terror plots.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in the Los Angeles federal courthouse at +1-   epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 