-- EU Seeks 2015 Automatic Exchange of Capital Gains Tax Data
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2013-06-12T12:12:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/eu-seeks-2015-automatic-exchange-of-capital-gains-tax-data.html
Dividends,  capital gains  and other
forms of financial income should be subject to automatic
exchange of information among tax authorities beginning in 2015,
according to a European Commission plan.  The Brussels-based commission aims to combine the new
proposals with an existing effort to update tax-data sharing on
interest from  savings accounts . If approved by nations, the
combination would rewrite bank secrecy laws across the 27-nation
bloc to make it harder to dodge cross-border taxes.  “With today’s proposal, member states will be better
equipped to assess and collect the taxes they are due, while the
EU will be well positioned to push for higher standards of tax
good governance globally,” EU Tax Commissioner Algirdas Semeta
said in a statement. “It will be another powerful weapon in our
arsenal to lead a strong attack against  tax evasion .”  Semeta also said EU governments should work together on
sharing tax data, rather than pursuing side deals like a U.K.-
supported pilot program.  “I firmly believe that an EU approach is better than a
patchwork of bilateral arrangements,”  Semeta told reporters .
“It prevents loopholes from emerging, creates greater legal
certainty and ensures that all member states benefit from an
inclusive stance against tax evasion.”  ‘New Momentum’  The U.K. and four other EU countries are slated to develop
a program on automatic sharing of cross-border tax information
with Caribbean territories and other overseas financial centers.
Details aren’t yet available on the planned pilot program, which
has been endorsed by 12 other EU nations.  The increased EU focus on fighting  tax avoidance  could
rejuvenate negotiations within the 27-nation bloc for a common
consolidated corporate tax base, Semeta said, citing “new
momentum” for technical work on the plan, which faces
opposition from Ireland, Luxembourg and other nations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  