-- European Drug Regulator Wants to Work With Cost Bodies
-- B y   A n d r e a   G e r l i n
-- 2013-06-12T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/european-drug-regulator-wants-to-work-with-cost-bodies.html
The European Medicines Agency wants
to cooperate more with health-technology bodies in European
Union countries that rule on the cost-effectiveness of new
treatments, the agency’s top official said.  As the agency reorganizes, it will try to coordinate with
bodies, such as the U.K.’s  National Institute for Health and
Care Excellence , that decide whether medical systems should
adopt new treatments, EMA Executive Director Guido Rasi said.
Working together with the groups rather than separately should
shorten the regulatory process, Rasi said.  “We can do the development in sequence or in parallel,
which makes a huge difference in time, but also a difference in
outcome,” Rasi said yesterday at a Bloomberg Industries health-care conference in London. “This will be a tremendous advantage
for developers. You have less surprise.”  Health-technology assessment bodies usually evaluate the
cost-effectiveness of new medicines after drugmakers have won
approval from EMA to sell them in Europe. Pharmaceutical
companies have complained that these agencies limit the market
for their products in Europe and working through two regulatory
processes is cumbersome, time-consuming and expensive.  “We know after you get approval at EMA your job is not
finished,” Rasi said. “You have HTA bodies. You have payers.
It’s very likely that the largest markets will do this. I hope
to have on board the large influential HTA bodies” in the U.K.,
 France  and  Germany , as well as Spain and  Italy .  Fewer Breakthroughs  Rasi also said the drug regulator wants to understand why
fewer applications for new drugs in Europe seek “breakthrough”
drug designation than in the U.S.  “That’s a crucial question,” Rasi said. “What we want to
learn is why you don’t apply, if you apply, what went wrong.”  Ninety percent of companies that sought and followed the
agency’s scientific advice for their drug applications gained
approval, compared with a 30 percent success rate for those who
sought the guidance and ignored it, Rasi said.  EMA has been reviewing how to expand its disclosure of
clinical-trial data that applicants submit and plans to publish
a draft of its new policy with “meaningful change” by the end
of this month, Rasi said. The agency also plans to eventually
publish minutes of its human-medicines committee’s discussions
and may allow limited broadcasting of those meetings in the
future, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Gerlin in  London  at 
 agerlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kristen Hallam at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net  