-- Europe’s Auto Rebound Hampered by German Vote Uncertainty
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n   a n d   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 2013-06-12T22:00:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/europe-s-auto-rebound-hampered-by-german-vote-uncertainty.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) 
and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  haven’t taken a stand on German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel ’s bid for a third term in September. They just
want the election to be over.  Any recovery in European auto sales from a six-year slump
will hinge largely on  Germany , where consumers have
been wary of buying cars ahead of the vote that recent polls
show as likely to result in no clear winner.  “There’s a level of hold-off in Germany because of the
elections,” said Allan Rushforth, chief operating officer for
 Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  in  Europe . With uncertainty over tax policies
that might affect purchasing power, politics is “more of a
factor for the consumer than in the past.”  Germany, which accounts for almost one in four cars sold in
Europe, has avoided the recession that has plagued other euro-zone countries. Strong exports to  Asia  and the U.S. have kept
the job market stable. At 6.9 percent, Germany’s jobless rate
stands near a two-decade low, while  consumer confidence  is on
the upswing.  That economic resilience isn’t reflected in the auto
market. Car sales in Europe’s biggest economy slumped 9.9
percent in May and are off 8.8 percent so far this year,
according to Germany’s motor vehicle office KBA.  “People are waiting to see what happens” with the
election, said  Ian Robertson , head of sales and marketing at
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG’s BMW brand. “It’s not a matter of
other economic issues: unemployment is still low, the economy is
moving quite strongly.”  Wealth Gap  With the debt crisis bringing fiscal discipline to the
forefront, politicians are promoting policies that ease budget
deficits, which may mean less take-home pay for some.  Social Democrat  Peer Steinbrueck , Merkel’s leading
challenger, is campaigning to close the wealth gap between rich
and poor by raising taxes on top earners and setting a minimum
hourly wage. Merkel has said she’ll keep taxes stable. Germany’s
willingness to pump more money into aiding debt-hobbled European
neighbors is also a key election issue.  “There’s a war of words going on in Germany about which
direction we should head in Europe,” said Peter Fuss, senior
advisory partner at Ernst & Young in Eschborn, Germany.  Neither Merkel’s Christian Democratic Party nor the SPD
have enough support to build a ruling coalition with their
preferred partner, according to a  poll  published yesterday by
Bild, Germany’s largest newspaper.  Pirelli’s Plans  “Sure, I’d like to get a new car, but I don’t want to
expose myself too much financially,” said Manfred Dobiasch, a
65-year-old former printing press worker from Berlin, who owns a
2005 Mercedes-Benz A-Class. “My car’s approaching its sell-by
date, but you need to make sure you have money for other things
and not stick it all in a car.”  The impact of the German election will ripple well beyond
the country’s borders. Italian tiremaker  Pirelli SpA (PC)  is holding
back on updating its business plan until November to get a
better read on Germany’s future and what that might mean for the
rest of Europe.  “Berlin economic policy after the elections will be
important to understand what role Europe will play on the world
stage,” Pirelli Chairman Marco Tronchetti Provera told
reporters in  Venice  on June 7.  After the Sept. 22 election, greater clarity on policies
could spark a tentative rebound in the region, with slow growth
starting in the fourth quarter, according to Hyundai’s
Rushforth. But few expect a quick return to pre-crisis levels.  Marchionne Waiting  “It will take three to four years” to see a real recovery
in the European car market,  Fiat SpA (F)  Chief Executive Officer
 Sergio Marchionne  told reporters June 8 in Venice. “The rebound
will start before, but to grow, you will need some time.”  LMC Automotive forecasts sales in western Europe will start
rising toward the end of this year, though not enough to show
growth for 2013. Next year, LMC predicts a gain of 0.5 percent
and then 4 percent in 2015. It will take at least two years
after that before the market reaches its pre-crisis level of
14.8 million vehicles -- 23 percent above this year’s forecast.  After six years of contraction, a lack of bad news is the
equivalent of good news -- which has given a boost to some auto
stocks. The Euro Stoxx autos and parts index has  climbed  7.7
percent this year, led by gains by Fiat,  Renault SA (RNO)  and Peugeot,
among the hardest hit by the crisis.  “There’s a certain insecurity that emerges” before a
major vote, Luca de Meo, head of sales and marketing at VW’s
Audi, said in an interview in Paris yesterday. “Everything
happens one or two months before the election, so we will see
this summer which way things are heading.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  