-- Ex-Presidents Back Rohani, Boosting Reformists Chance in Iran
-- B y   K a m b i z   F o r o o h a r   a n d   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2013-06-12T13:43:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/ex-presidents-back-rohani-boosting-reformists-chance-in-iran.html
Iranian presidential candidate
Hassan Rohani’s chances were boosted after two former presidents
open to engagement with the West endorsed him in the June 14
election.  Both Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani and Mohammad Khatami said
yesterday they would vote for Rohani. Iranians “seeking a
positive evolution in politics, culture, economy and foreign
policy can make a decision toward a better future for society,”
Khatami wrote on his website.  Both former presidents have expressed sympathy with the
2009 opposition movement, which accused authorities of ballot
fraud to deny a reformist candidate victory.  Rohani’s campaign also received a push after Mohammad Reza Aref, a candidate who served as a vice president in Khatami’s
administration, stepped down two days ago to clear the way for
Rohani. Both men had campaigned as reformists.  Rohani, a cleric who was a chief negotiator in talks on
 Iran’s nuclear program  during Khatami’s presidency, has been
campaigning for more media freedom and an easing of social
restrictions. He also said he will seek to steer the nation away
from the confrontational path with the West taken by President
 Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , who is ineligible to run for a third
consecutive term.  Second Round  Polls suggest the contest will go to a second round.  Six candidates remain in the race, after ex-parliamentary
speaker Gholam-Ali Haddad Adel dropped out on June 10 in an
effort to prevent the dilution of votes for conservative
contenders. These include Tehran Mayor Mohammad Baqer Qalibaf,
 Saeed Jalili , the current chief nuclear negotiator and former
foreign minister Ali Akbar Velayati, a close adviser to
 Ayatollah Ali Khamenei , the nation’s supreme leader.  If no candidate gets a majority in the first round, the top
two will compete in a June 21 runoff.  According to two different local polls cited by state-run
Mehr and Fars, none of the six candidates will win a majority of
votes this week.  Qalibaf will place first with 17.8 percent while Rohani
will come in second with 14.6 percent, according to the Mehr
Center For Opinion Polling’s survey. Jalili will trail with 9.8
percent, it showed.  Qalibaf and Jalili will lead votes and Rohani will come in
third, according to another survey Fars cited yesterday.  Outcome Unclear  “One of the few saving graces of the Iranian political
system is that despite the on-going effort to centralize
everything, when it comes to these sorts of elections, the
outcome is hardly pre-ordained,” Daniel Brumberg, co-director
of democracy and governance studies at  Georgetown University ’s
Government Department, said in an interview from  Washington .  Opposition from Khamenei may cause Rohani to fall short in
his presidential bid, said Alireza Nader, a senior analyst in
the Arlington, Virginia, office of the Rand Corporation, a
research group. “It is not clear Khamenei has decided who he
wants to be president,” Nader said. “He doesn’t want Rohani to
win.”  About 51 percent of Iranians are undecided or said they
will not vote at all, said Akbar Torkan, the deputy head of
Rohani’s campaign headquarters, citing local polls. Torkan said
he expected Khatami’s support to boost participation, according
to the report published yesterday by the state-run  Iranian
Students News Agency .  Jalili has called for “resistance” in the face of foreign
powers’ sanctions against  Iran  over its nuclear program. Rohani,
who also backs Iran’s right to a civilian nuclear program, has
said technological progress shouldn’t come at the expense of the
economy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kambiz Foroohar in  New York  at 
 kforoohar@bloomberg.net ;
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  