-- Ex-U.S. Broker Dealer Manager Charged in Foreign Bribery
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-06-12T21:19:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/ex-u-s-broker-dealer-manager-charged-in-foreign-bribery.html
Ernesto Lujan, an ex-managing
partner of the broker-dealer Direct Access Partners LLC, was
charged with participating in an international bribery scheme
involving Venezuelan bank officials.  Lujan, 50, who was also sued by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, served as a branch manager of the Miami
offices of DAP, the commission said today in its lawsuit.  He was arrested today at his home in Wellington,  Florida ,
by Federal Bureau of Investigation agents and charged with
violating the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, Manhattan U.S.
Attorney Preet Bharara’s office said.  Lujan is the latest defendant to be charged in an
international bribery scheme announced May 7 by Bharara’s
office. TWO DAP employees were charged with paying bribes to
secure the bond-trading business of Banco de Desarrollo
Economico y Social de Venezuela, or BANDES, Venezuela’s state-owned economic development bank.  “From his perch as managing partner, Ernesto Lujan
allegedly engaged in a bribery scheme designed to drum up
foreign trading business for his firm,” Bharara said today in a
statement. “Along with his alleged cohorts, three of whom were
arrested last month, he pocketed millions from the alleged
scheme.”  Maria Gonzalez, 54, vice president of finance at Banco de
Desarrollo Economico y Social de  Venezuela ; Tomas Alberto Clarke
Bethancourt, 43; and Jose Alejandro Hurtado, 38, were named in a
criminal complaint unsealed last month in New York.  SEC Action  Prosecutors said Clarke was a senior vice president and
Hurtado an employee in the Miami office of the brokerage, which
was identified as DAP in a lawsuit by the SEC. The agency filed
its related civil action today in federal court in New York.  Lujan was charged with offenses including Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act violation and money-laundering. The most serious
charges can be punished by as long as 20 years in prison.  Lujan appeared in federal court in West Palm Beach,
Florida, and ordered held without bail, court records show. A
lawyer for Lujan couldn’t immediately be reached for comment
about the charges.  The case is U.S. v. Lujan, 13-mj-01501, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in federal court in Manhattan
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 