-- Facebook’s Zuckerberg Defends Derided IPO Touting Mobile
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-06-12T20:10:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/facebook-s-zuckerberg-defends-derided-ipo-touting-mobile.html
A year after  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s bungled
public market debut, Chief Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  is
still facing the wrath of ordinary investors holding stakes now
worth a fraction of what they paid.  At the company’s first shareholder meeting since an initial
public offering in May 2012, one man who identified himself as
Daniel summed up the frustration of many, saying of the IPO: “I
think it’s been a disaster.”  Facebook, operator of the world’s most popular social
network, has lost 37 percent since the IPO as investors
questioned the company’s ability to boost mobile-advertising
revenue. While Zuckerberg’s focus on software and ads for
smartphones and tablets has helped the shares rebound 34 percent
from a low in September, he said the company is still investing
in products and services that will reward investors over the
long term.  “We understand that a lot of people are disappointed in
the performance of the stock and we really are too,” Zuckerberg
said in his opening remarks at the meeting yesterday.  Facebook, which hasn’t closed above the $38 IPO price since
its first trading day, fell 1.1 percent to $23.77 at the close
in  New York .  At the time of its IPO, underwriters led by Morgan Stanley
set a price that valued Facebook at 107 times reported earnings
in the past 12 months, more than every  Standard & Poor’s  500
stock except two. Facebook and Morgan Stanley have faced
criticism for increasing the number of shares to be sold in the
IPO by 25 percent to 421.2 million days before the offering and
pushing up the asking price.  People Harmed  The post-IPO performance “has harmed a lot of people --not
just in Facebook stock -- but for the average person to trust
and invest in the stock market in general,” the man who called
himself Daniel said.  One woman’s question laid bare the losses some retail
investors now face.  “Is it worth it for me to keep my shares I bought from the
day of the IPO at $42 and $43?” she asked via telephone. “At
this point I’m still hanging on. I want to know if the company
has any strategy to create a new product to boost up the price
per share in the near future.”  Zuckerberg, in remarks aimed at the many similar queries
received in advance of the  Menlo Park , California-based
company’s annual meeting, said he’s always “taken a pretty
long-term view” of Facebook’s market performance.  “Over time we’re building an asset and a network that’s
increasingly valuable in the world, and we believe that over the
long term we will generate the most value for shareholders by
doing that,” Zuckerberg said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  