-- FEMA Denies Texas Aid Bid to Rebuild After Plant Blast
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r   a n d   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 2013-06-12T20:11:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/fema-denies-texas-aid-bid-to-rebuild-after-plant-blast.html
The  Federal Emergency Management
Agency  said it won’t provide U.S. aid to help rebuild the town
in  Texas  where an April fertilizer plant explosion killed 15
people and leveled nearby buildings.  In a June 10 letter to Texas Governor  Rick Perry , a
Republican, FEMA’s administrator said that while the agency had
made payments to individuals affected by the blast, a major
disaster declaration wasn’t necessary.  “Based on our review of all the information available, it
has been determined that the remaining cost for permanent work
is within the capabilities of the state and affected local
governments,” FEMA Administrator  Craig Fugate  wrote.  Texas can appeal the decision within 30 days.  The blast at Adair Grain Inc.’s fertilizer plant in West,
Texas, wrecked two schools, a nursing home and an apartment
building within blocks of the facility.  It also generated a debate over the adequacy of chemical
plant safety regulations.  “The day of the West memorial service, President Obama
stood in front of a grieving community and told them they would
not be forgotten,” Perry said today in a statement. “He said
his administration would stand with them, ready to help. We
anticipate the president will hold true to his word and help us
work with FEMA to ensure much-needed assistance reaches the
community of West.”  $7 Million  West, Texas, Mayor Tommy Muska didn’t immediately respond
to a phone call seeking comment.  Dan Watson, a FEMA spokesman, said FEMA and the  Small
Business Administration  provided more than $7 million in grants
and low-interest loans to individuals and families disrupted by
the explosion. The U.S. has also covered about 75 percent of the
state’s cost for debris removal and emergency protective
measures, Watson said in an e-mail, which didn’t list the total
spent so far on federal aid to the community south of Waco.  Republican Representative Bill Flores, whose district
includes West, said the needs of the town met the threshold for
a disaster declaration and Texas should appeal FEMA’s decision.  Flores said West may need an additional $30 million in
federal funds to cover the $40 million required to rebuild.  Moody’s Investors Service said June 4 that it placed the
West Independent School District’s bond rating under review for
possible downgrade in part over “uncertainty regarding the
amount of state and federal assistance for recovery and
rebuilding efforts.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net ;
Darrell Preston in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  