-- Female Senators Challenging Pentagon on Sex-Assault Rules
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2013-06-12T21:23:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/female-senators-challenging-pentagon-on-sex-assault-rules.html
Female senators pushing legislation
to curb sexual assaults in the armed forces confronted
opposition from top military officials and their own leadership
on how to change the way cases are investigated and prosecuted.  Democratic and Republican leaders of the Senate Armed
Services Committee joined Pentagon officials in rejecting a
proposal to investigate sexual assault cases outside the
military chain of command.  While an Armed Services subcommittee yesterday approved
that change in the handling of sexual-assault cases as part of a
broader defense measure, the full panel today voted 17-9 to
instead require high-level review whenever a commander decides
against pursuing prosecution of a sex-assault allegation.  “The voices of the victims of sexual assault have been
drowned out by the military leaders who have failed to combat
this crisis,” Democrat Kirsten Gillibrand of New York, leader
of the effort to restrict commanders’ authority, said in a
statement after the vote. Four women, including Gillibrand,
voted on her side in committee. Three women voted against.  The proposal restricting commanders’ prosecution authority
has emerged as the central issue in a debate sparked by the
results of a Defense Department survey estimating 26,000 cases
of sexual assaults last year, compared with 2,949 victims
identified in criminal reports.  Levin’s Opposition  While saying the current version of the bill includes
“several significant steps forward,” Gillibrand said the fight
for her plan “has only just begun” and she’ll press for it
when the measure reaches the Senate floor.  With a record 20 women serving in the Senate, a bipartisan
group joined together to push for changes, setting up a showdown
with the male-dominated Pentagon.  The group ran into resistance even from some allies. Armed
Services Committee Chairman Carl Levin, a Michigan Democrat,
opposes an independent prosecutor in sexual assault cases and
offered the bipartisan plan that would keep sex-assault cases in
the chain of command while requiring a higher-level review of
any commanding officer’s decision not to prosecute.  “Only the chain of command can establish a zero-tolerance
policy for sexual offenses,” he said at a June 4 panel hearing.  Even before the panel met, one of its female members,
Democrat Claire McCaskill of Missouri, sided with Levin’s
approach, which also would make it a crime to retaliate against
victims who report sexual assaults.  Joint Chiefs  “The good news is, there’s someone above the prosecutor
that’s a civilian that can, in fact, pass judgment also,”
McCaskill said on the Senate floor. She said the proposal will
“empower victims and lead to more reporting.”  At a hearing last week, military officers including Army
General Martin Dempsey, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff,
criticized the proposal to restrict commanders’ prosecution
authority. He said military discipline would be hurt if
commanding officers didn’t handle the cases.  Gillibrand reacted sharply.  “Not every single commander necessarily wants women in the
force,” she told the officers. “Not every single commander
believes what a sexual assault is. Not every single commander
can distinguish between a slap on the ass and a rape because
they merge all of these crimes together.”  Women in both parties have little to lose by pressing this
legislation, Sean Kay, a professor of politics and government at
Ohio Wesleyan University in  Delaware , Ohio, said before the
committee’s vote.  No ‘Downside’  “I don’t see how there’s a downside for them at all
politically,” Kay said. “These well-informed experts who
happen to be women are forcing the military to think differently
about these issues.”  The question is how far Congress is willing to go.  The chain-of-command measure has the most pushback from the
Pentagon. Senator Kelly Ayotte, a New Hampshire Republican, and
Senator Patty Murray, a Washington Democrat, back proposals that
would provide military lawyers throughout the legal process to
alleged victims of sexual assault and criminalize sexual
relationships between basic-training instructors and students.  Minnesota Democratic Senator Amy Klobuchar has offered a
measure to prevent convicted sex offenders from enlisting or
being commissioned in the military. With Republican Susan Collins of  Maine , she proposes preventing military officials
from dismissing a court-martial conviction for sexual assault.  Attitude Change  Some male lawmakers have joined in the effort. Senator Roy Blunt, a Missouri Republican, is co-sponsoring legislation with
Collins and McCaskill to bar commanders from overturning court-martial convictions and require a minimum penalty of
dishonorable discharge for those found guilty of sexual assault.  Blunt said he’s determined to see some change occur this
year, although he can’t predict what law will emerge.  “Clearly the attitude at the top levels in the military
needs to change in a way that gets them focused on addressing
this problem,” Blunt said. “Business as usual isn’t good
enough.”  Senator Jeanne Shaheen, a New Hampshire Democrat,
acknowledged the Pentagon’s resistance could force the toughest
proposals off the table.  “It probably makes it harder to get some of the changes
done, but I think the effort to try to get them done won’t
change,” she said.  Become Accepted  Collins said she isn’t so sure. She sees parallels with
legislation overturning the military’s “don’t ask, don’t tell”
policy banning openly gay personnel from serving. While the
chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff was supportive, the chiefs
of all the military services opposed the measure.  It passed in December 2010 and has become accepted, Collins
said. The military is too resistant to change to significantly
alter legal and cultural policy on its own, she said.  “There’s no doubt in my mind that we need to have
legislative changes,’ Collins said. ‘‘There have been legitimate
issues that have been raised over which bill is the best
approach, but we can’t just leave this up to the military. The
military has shown, sadly, that it is incapable of solving this
problem or even making significant progress.”  The drive for legislation is fueled by the Pentagon sexual-assault statistics and a series of scandals roiling the Defense
Department. The military is pursuing three cases in which
officers who worked in sexual-assault prevention programs were
accused of wrongdoing that included assault, mistreatment of
subordinates and inducing prostitution.  The debate has taken on a partisan edge.  ‘Hormone Level’  At the June 4 panel hearing, Senator Saxby Chambliss, a
Georgia Republican, cited the “hormone level” among young
recruits as a contributing factor in the surge in assaults.  Democrats pounced. The Democratic Senatorial Campaign
Committee, looking to the 2014 congressional elections, said
Chambliss’s remark shows that a “Republican war on women”
continues, and vowed to push harder for measures preventing
military sexual assaults.  That’s a slogan the Democrats used in 2012, when they
gained a 55-seat Senate majority. Of the seven women on the
Senate Armed Services committee, two Democrats -- Kay Hagan of
North Carolina and Shaheen -- are up for re-election in 2014.  House lawmakers say they want to take some action as well.
House Speaker John Boehner, an  Ohio  Republican, called the
increase in military sexual assaults a “national disgrace” and
said he expects his chamber to take up changes to military law
as part of debate on an annual defense bill.  Representative Jackie Speier, a California Democrat who is
leading efforts in the House, lashed out at the military’s top
brass on June 9 on CBS’s “Face the Nation.”  “They‘re enablers because this has been a problem for 25
years and for 25 years they’ve trotted up to Capitol Hill, they
sat in committee hearings and they said all the right things,
zero tolerance,” she said. “But then the scandals keep
happening.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  