-- FIFA Says Brazil World Cup Soccer Trademark Abuse More Than 2010
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-06-12T03:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/fifa-says-brazil-world-cup-soccer-trademark-abuse-more-than-2010.html
Soccer’s governing body FIFA said it
found more cases of copyright infringement related to next
year’s  World Cup  in  Brazil  than it did a year before South
Africa hosted sports’ most-watched event in 2010.  Auke-Jan Bossenbroek, FIFA’s legal counsel responsible for
protecting the Zurich-based organization’s trademarks, said
action has been taken in the past six months against about 100
companies that don’t have permission to use protected words or
logos related to the World Cup, which  kicks off  in Rio de
Janeiro a year from today.  “So far we’ve been able to solve all of the cases,”
Bossenbroek told reporters yesterday, explaining that the
majority of incidents involved small companies and didn’t
require legal action. “It’s significant, but I guess it also
shows the incredible interest and incredible enthusiasm for the
event that we are organizing.”  FIFA and the local organizing committee have sold
sponsorship rights to the monthlong event to 20 companies whose
combined involvement is $1.4 billion through a mixture of direct
cash payments and services.  Coca Cola Co. (KO) , one of FIFA’s
longest-tenured sponsors, is providing 5 million beverages for
the tournament and  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  will deliver 1,400 vehicles
to transport officials and teams in 12 host cities.  FIFA has been accused by small-business owners of being
heavy-handed in its protection of rights at its flagship
competition, which is responsible for about 90 percent of its
income. Marketing Director Thierry Weil said FIFA has a
responsibility to partners who have “invested quite a
significant amount of money to be part of the event.”  Trademarked Slogans  FIFA has trademarked slogans including Brazil 2014 and Copa
2014, and also the image of its current gold trophy, which was
first awarded in 1974 after Brazil got to keep the original
Jules Rimet trophy by winning the World Cup three times.  While the majority of cases have been solved “by a phone
call,” Bossenbroek said, there have been instances of large
corporations trying to use the popularity of the World Cup in
marketing material and promotional activity.  During the 2010 tournament in  South Africa , FIFA filed
charges against organizers of an ambush marketing campaign for a
Dutch beer brand during a match between the Netherlands and
 Denmark . FIFA’s reaction to the incident, which featured about
30 women wearing identical orange dresses, meant that Lieshout,
Netherlands-based Bavaria, the company behind the stunt, got
publicity for several days.  While FIFA’s actions may have given the beer brand more
publicity than it might have gotten had no action been taken,
doing nothing isn’t an option, Weil said. The case was settled
out of court.  Local Misunderstandings  “If you don’t do anything, when will it stop?” Weil
asked. “We have many cases in the past where you have 10 people
coming in wearing one big t-shirt, with one big brand. That’s
organized.”  Many of the cases in Brazil have been the result of local
businesses not understanding the rules related to using World
Cup logos, Bossenbroek said. A team of FIFA officials will
travel to the 12 host cities across Brazil to explain to
businesses what they can and can’t do when trying to prosper
from the event being in their country.  “Let’s be fair play to each other,” Weil said. “You who
are here continue to make business, if you have not bought into
the commercial program don’t jump on this and misuse marks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  