-- Fitch Revises India Rating Outlook to Stable in Boost for Singh
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l   a n d   T u s h a r   D h a r a
-- 2013-06-12T18:31:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/fitch-revises-india-rating-outlook-to-stable-in-boost-for-singh.html
India ’s credit-rating outlook was
revised to stable from negative by Fitch Ratings, following a
nine-month policy push by the government to pare the nation’s
budget deficit and revive economic growth.  The long-term foreign and local currency ratings were
affirmed at BBB-, the lowest investment grade, Fitch said in a
statement yesterday, leaving the nation on par with  Indonesia 
and the  Philippines . The company cut India’s outlook in June
2012.  The revision “reflects the measures taken by the
government to contain the budget deficit” and “some, albeit
limited, progress in addressing some of the structural
impediments to investment and economic growth,” Fitch said.  The move may provide some succor for Prime Minister
Manmohan Singh’s coalition, which has been hurt by graft
scandals that in recent weeks disrupted parliament and hampered
efforts to extend policy changes. The rupee added to gains
following the outlook revision, after sliding to a record low
this week, weighed down by  India (SENSEX) ’s current-account deficit.  “In the sea of negative news, this is a small positive,”
said Shubhada Rao, chief economist at Yes Bank Ltd. in Mumbai.
“It will have a marginal improvement on sentiment, but it’s a
long haul to get the economy back on a strong footing.”  The rupee climbed 1 percent to 57.79 per dollar at the
close in Mumbai yesterday. It slid to an all-time low of 58.9850
on June 11 and is down 4.8 percent this year. The S&P BSE India
Sensex index ended 0.5 percent lower yesterday, before the Fitch
statement. The yield on the 7.16 percent bond maturing in May
2023 fell to 7.29 percent from 7.30 percent on June 11.  Singh’s Changes  Singh began reforms in September to counter the weakest
economic growth in a decade, woo investment and avert a rating
downgrade. Steps have included liberalization in the retail and
aviation industries to attract overseas capital, and a push to
speed up infrastructure projects.  The minority administration, whose economic credentials
will be tested in elections due by May 2014, has also reduced
levies on overseas buyers of local bonds and raised taxes on
gold imports to pare a record current-account shortfall.  Still, Fitch said “the investment climate could benefit
from further reforms.”  The recent legislative logjam has stalled bills to simplify
taxes, provide more land for industry and open up the pensions
and insurance business to foreign companies.  Fiscal Deficit  Standard & Poor’s lowered India’s outlook to negative last
year, while Moody’s Investors Service kept it at stable. Both
companies classify India at the lowest investment grade.  India will “broadly meet” the  budget deficit  target of
4.8 percent of gross domestic product in the year ending March
2014, Fitch said. The shortfall was 4.9 percent of GDP in
2012-2013.  Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram’s goal is 3
percent by 2017, as he strives to contain price pressures and
boost scope for interest-rate cuts by the Reserve Bank of India.  The recent drop in the rupee may “limit the scope for
further cuts in RBI policy rates,” Fitch said.  Reports yesterday showed India’s industrial-output growth
slowed in April, while consumer prices rose 9.31 percent in May
from a year earlier.  Reserve Bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao will keep the
benchmark  interest rate  at 7.25 percent next week, 11 of 19
analysts said in a Bloomberg survey. The rest called for a cut
to 7 percent. Subbarao reduced borrowing costs 25 basis points
in January, March and May each.  The  current-account deficit  was $32.6 billion in the last
quarter of 2012, or 6.7 percent of gross domestic product.  Still, India’s overall external position is a “relative
rating strength” as foreign debt is “moderate,” Fitch said,
adding currency reserves “provide a cushion” against shocks.  India’s GDP climbed 5 percent in the year ended March, the
least since 2003. “Structural” budget deficits, “high”
public debt and the challenge from “large segments of the
population engaged in low-valued added activities,” constrain
its rating, Fitch said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kartik Goyal in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net ;
Tushar Dhara in New Delhi at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  