-- French Flights Disrupted as Air Traffic Controllers Protest
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2013-06-12T09:52:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/flights-to-france-cut-on-last-day-of-air-traffic-control-strike.html
Flights into  France  were disrupted
for a second consecutive day as air traffic controllers strike
in protest of planned changes to national airspace oversight.  Employees are set to return to their posts tomorrow
morning, after their action led to 1,800 cancellations to Paris
and other French cities yesterday and a similar number today.
 Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  scrapped 92 services today, most of them
into France, down from 171 yesterday, while  Ryanair Holdings
Plc (RYA) , Europe’s biggest discount airline, canceled 250 flights.  Controllers are striking as they oppose plans by European
Union regulators to expand their powers in a bid to lower air-traffic charges and shorten flight routes in the bloc,
challenging national controllers.  “This is wrong,”  Tony Tyler , director general of the
 International Air Transport Association , said in an interview in
Istanbul today. “This is a misguided attempt to preventing
efficiencies that are being brought about for a single European
sky.”  Air France (AF)  SA has said it is transporting all long-haul
passengers by reducing frequencies to key destinations such as
New York. Carriers on other long-distance routes also felt the
fallout. Etihad Airways PJSC, which normally flies twice daily
to Paris, canceled one voyage both yesterday and today, with
plans to resume full service tomorrow.  Qatar Airways Ltd., which serves Paris three times daily,
scrapped one flight for yesterday, today and tomorrow. Emirates
canceled one of two flights into Paris today and said it
accommodated passengers affected on other services.  EasyJet said it canceled 128 services into French airports,
of which 66 are flights originating in the U.K.  The protest is the first since 2010, when some flight
controllers joined a campaign against changes in French pension
rules. The last strike triggered by controller complaints
occurred in February 2008, when union members staged a four-day
walk-out over changed responsibilities for some areas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  