-- Florida Orange-Crop Estimate Cut 2.9% by USDA on Disease Damage
-- B y   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z
-- 2013-06-12T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/florida-orange-crop-estimate-cut-2-9-by-usda-on-disease-damage.html
The U.S. Department of
Agriculture reduced its forecast for  Florida ’s orange crop
by 2.9 percent because of damage from citrus greening, a
bacterial disease. The cut exceeded analysts’ estimates.  In the season that started Oct. 1, the state may
collect 134 million boxes, down from 138 million projected
last month, the USDA said today in a report. On average,
analysts and traders expected the agency to cut the
estimate to 137.8 million boxes, a Bloomberg News survey
showed. A year earlier, output was 146.7 million. Florida
is the world’s second-biggest orange grower.  In May, rain across most of the state’s growing areas
was at least double the normal amount, ending a drought,
David Streit, a senior meteorologist at World Commodity
Weather Group, said in a telephone interview. From December
to April, the USDA cut its crop projection each month as
dry weather combined with damage from greening to erode
prospects for fruit.  While “the better rains will be good for next year’s
harvest, the damage from greening is already done for the
current crop,” Sterling Smith, a futures specialist at
Citigroup Inc. in  Chicago , said in a telephone interview.  Through yesterday, orange-juice futures in New York
jumped 34 percent in the past 12 months. Citrus greening
starves a tree of nutrients, causing fruit to shrink and
drop prematurely. The disease has been found in all of
Florida’s 32 counties that produce the fruit commercially.  Yields will average 1.59 gallons per box, down from
1.63 gallons a year earlier, the USDA said. A box weighs 90
pounds, or 41 kilograms.  Brazil  is the top orange producer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marvin G. Perez in New York at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  