-- Forint Gains as Hungary Rate Cut Bets Drop to Lowest in a Year
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-06-12T14:41:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/forint-gains-as-hungary-rate-cut-bets-drop-to-lowest-in-a-year.html
The forint gained for a second day
as bets on the extension of  Hungary ’s 10 month long cycle of
interest-rate cuts dropped to a year low after a slump in demand
for riskier assets.  The forint strengthened 0.5 percent to 296.24 against the
euro by 3:01 p.m. in Budapest. Forward-rate agreements used to
wager on three-month interest rates in nine months traded nine
basis points below the Budapest Interbank Offered Rate. The
spread fell to zero yesterday for the first time in a year after
widening to 1.27 percentage point on May 17.  The forint has slumped 2.2 percent and Hungary’s benchmark
10-year yields jumped more than one percentage point since
central bank policy makers voted unanimously last month to
reduce the benchmark interest rate by a quarter-point to 4.5
percent, a record low. Rate-setters will consider further cuts
if the inflation outlook remains in line with the bank’s target
and the improvement in financial market sentiment is sustained,
according to  minutes  of the May 28 meeting published today.  “The market no longer prices in further rate cuts,” Peter Deaki and Gergely Palffy, Budapest-based analysts at Buda-Cash
Brokerhaz Zrt., wrote in an e-mailed report today. “That is
based on the expected tightening from the Fed and other leading
central banks and the resulting turn away from riskier
markets.”  Yields on Hungary’s benchmark 10-year bonds fell 18 basis
points, or 0.18 percentage point, to 6.21 percent after rising
32 basis points yesterday, the biggest daily jump since January
2012.  Hungary’s inflation rate was 1.8 percent in May, within 0.1
percentage point of a 39-year low reached in April, data from
the statistics office in Budapest showed yesterday. Separate
inflation indicators measured by the central bank including
demand-sensitive inflation all stayed below the headline rate in
May, the bank said on its website today.  Inflation will probably remain subdued via government-imposed cuts in utility prices, making Hungary’s real yields
“quite attractive,” Anton Hauser, who helps manage the
equivalent of $6.6 billion at Erste Sparinvest KAG in Vienna,
wrote by e-mail today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  