-- France Telecom Board to Meet After CEO Charged in Probe
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2013-06-13T11:49:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/france-telecom-ceo-richard-charged-with-fraud-in-tapie-case.html
France Telecom SA (FTE) ’s board will meet
next week to discuss the consequences of Chief Executive Officer
Stephane Richard’s fraud charge in a probe linked to when he was
chief of staff for then-Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde .  The board will gather early next week to discuss whether
Richard should remain CEO, Technology Minister Fleur Pellerin
said today on RTL radio. Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  said
yesterday the board should meet “as soon as possible.”  The charge, related to a dispute that began in 1993 between
a state-owned bank and a French businessman, is a distraction
for the Paris-based phone carrier seeking to reverse falling
sales. The government push for a board meeting calls Richard’s
future into question as France Telecom, owner of the Orange
brand, navigates price wars in France and declining phone bills.  “It’s too early to say what the consequences, if any, will
be for  France Telecom ,” Frederic Boulan, a London-based
telecommunications analyst for Nomura International Plc, said
yesterday. “For now, all that’s clear is the legal process is
under way and tomorrow morning will be back to business for
Stephane Richard.”  France Telecom’s employee shareholders, who control nearly
5 percent of its capital, said in a today statement they want
Richard to continue to lead the company. The employee
shareholders have one representative on the 15-person board of
directors, according to France Telecom’s  website .  CEO Survivors  The French state holds a stake of about 27 percent in the
former phone monopoly and has three board representatives.  Several other French CEOs have kept their jobs after
criminal cases. The Paris prosecutor recommended Total SA’s
Christophe de Margerie stand trial on charges of bribing Iranian
officials for oil contracts last month, the same day the company
settled a U.S. probe into the bribes. He’s already been tried in
the Oil-for-Food case involving  Iraq , and a verdict is expected
next month. De Margerie has denied the allegations in both
cases.  Bouygues SA (EN)  CEO Martin Bouygues was cleared in 2003 of
charges of misusing corporate funds.  The case doesn’t affect Richard’s responsibilities at
France Telecom, said Jean-Bernard Orsoni, a company spokesman.
He declined to comment on the board meeting. “Richard will be
back at his desk tomorrow morning,” Orsoni said yesterday.  Bernard Tapie , a businessman who endorsed Nicolas Sarkozy’s
successful presidential effort in 2007 and his failed re-election bid in 2012, won a 385 million-euro ($509 million)
arbitration award in 2008, ending a dispute with the government
over his company’s sale of German sportswear brand  Adidas AG (ADS)  in
1992. Tapie accused then-state-owned bank Credit Lyonnais of
cheating him while handling the sale.  ‘Insulting, Grotesque’  Richard will appeal the judges’ decision to charge him and
“views their accusation as insulting and grotesque,” his
lawyer, Jean-Etienne Giamarchi, said by telephone.  The 51-year-old Frenchman, who served as Lagarde’s chief of
staff between 2007 and 2009, became CEO in 2010. His mandate
runs through May. The company’s  shares  fell as much as 1.7
percent in Paris and were down 0.6 percent to 7.43 euros at 1:44
p.m.  France  Telecom, the worst performer on France’s leading Cac
40 index in 2012, has dropped 11 percent this year.  Jean-Francois Rocchi, formerly responsible for liquidating
Credit Lyonnais debt for the government, was also charged
yesterday in the affair.  Lagarde, now managing director at the  International
Monetary Fund , refused to appeal the arbitration decision,
saying “a very large majority” of the money would return to
the state through the creditors’ claims. She has denied any
wrongdoing and was heard last month in a separate investigation
led by the Cour de Justice de la Republique, which focuses on
ministers’ actions in office. She was named a key witness after
two days of questioning.  Lagarde’s lawyer, Yves Repiquet, didn’t return a call for
comment on how this might affect the CJR’s investigation.  French Industry Minister  Arnaud Montebourg  on June 6 was
cited by Le Monde as saying Richard should quit his job as chief
of France Telecom if charged in the Tapie case. Montebourg later
denied making any statement to the newspaper.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  