-- Freeport Declares Force Majeure on Grasberg Copper Shipments
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l   a n d   Y o g a   R u s m a n a
-- 2013-06-12T13:32:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/freeport-declares-force-majeure-on-grasberg-copper-shipments-1-.html
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) 
declared force majeure on shipments from its Grasberg operation
in Indonesia, the world’s second-largest copper mine, after an
accident killed 28 workers last month.  The company is waiting for approval from Indonesian
authorities to restart operations in phases, starting with open-pit mining and processing activity, Phoenix-based Freeport said
today in a statement.  Force majeure is a clause in a contract invoked by
commodity suppliers when they can’t meet obligations because of
circumstances beyond their control. Freeport had already
suspended mining and processing after the May 14 accident.  The stoppage is reducing output by about 3 million pounds
of copper (1,361 metric tons) and 3,000 ounces of gold a day,
the company said today. That’s equal to about 2.9 percent of
average daily global copper output this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Freeport’s Indonesian unit lost about 80 million pounds of
copper and 80,000 ounces of gold production between May 15 and
June 11, the company said.  Freeport rose 2 percent to $29.91 at 9:31 a.m. in  New York .
Copper for delivery in July rose 0.7 percent to $3.218 a pound
on the Comex.  Accident Probe  The company said it’s cooperating with the investigation
into the cause of the tunnel collapse, which led to the deaths.  An independent investigation team formed by the government
will report on the probe’s progress this weekend or early next
week, Ridho Wattimena, head of the team, said in a mobile phone
text message today. He didn’t give any further details. The
government hasn’t set a target for completion of the
investigation, Thamrin Sihite, director general of coal and
minerals at the energy ministry, said June 7.  Another Grasberg worker died June 1 in a separate accident
when material overflowed from an ore bin and covered a truck
during maintenance activity.  The force majeure affects consignments of concentrates, a
semi-processed ore that’s shipped to smelters.  PT Smelting ,
 Indonesia ’s only copper smelter, is relying on concentrate
stockpiles to run its plant in Gresik, East Java, President
Director Makoto Miki said by phone before the force majeure was
announced. The company last received cargoes from Freeport
“around the timing of the accident,” he said.  Newmont Supplies  “For the time being we can continue the operations,” Miki
said from Jakarta. “We’re preparing for any scenario. We have
had close discussions with Newmont and we have advanced
shipments arrangement.”  PT Smelting receives 80 percent of the concentrate supplies
for its 300,000-ton smelter from Freeport and the rest from PT
Newmont Nusa Tenggara, he said.  Newmont, which runs the Batu Hijau mine on Sumbawa island,
is communicating with PT Smelting and will “do our best to
assist them in providing concentrate supplies,” Rubi Purnomo, a
Jakarta-based spokesman, said in mobile-phone text message.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net ;
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  