-- GE Names CFO Sherin to Run Shrinking Finance Unit
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2013-06-12T14:19:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/ge-names-cfo-sherin-to-run-shrinking-finance-unit.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  named Chief
Financial Officer  Keith Sherin  to lead the company’s finance
unit, succeeding the retiring Mike Neal, as  GE Capital  sheds
assets and comes under heightened regulatory oversight.  The appointment is effective July 1, the Fairfield,
Connecticut-based company said today in a statement. Sherin, 54,
will be succeeded at the parent company by GE Capital CFO Jeff Bornstein, 47.  The transition follows the  Federal Reserve ’s determination
last week that GE Capital poses a potential risk to the U.S.
financial system. Sherin also will lead efforts to further
shrink the unit as GE CEO Jeff Immelt focuses on boosting profit
from industrial products such as  jet engines , locomotives and
medical scanners.  Sherin is “a trusted colleague and a smart business
partner,” Immelt said in the statement. “Keith is one of the
most respected CFOs in the world.”  Sherin has been GE’s finance chief since 1998, after
joining the company in 1981. Bornstein has been GE Capital’s CFO
since 2008 and has been with the parent company since 1989.
Neal, 60, will continue as a GE vice chairman through this year,
the company said today.  GE rose 0.2 percent to $23.62 at 10:16 a.m. in New York.
The  shares  had gained 12 percent this year through yesterday, as
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 14 percent.  Neal has led GE Capital since July 2005, steering it
through the 2008 financial collapse and then a recovery. The
unit got a capital infusion from GE and turned to government
programs to bolster its access to credit as markets froze in the
wake of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s bankruptcy.  Balance Sheet  GE Capital had $538 billion in assets as of March 31,
larger than all but six U.S. banks, according to data compiled
by the Fed. The unit reported profit of $7.4 billion on
$46 billion in revenue last year.  Immelt has pledged to reduce ending net investment, a
measure of GE Capital’s balance sheet that excludes non-interest-bearing liabilities and cash, by more than 25 percent
to as little as $300 billion by the end of next year.  GE may divest some GE Capital businesses through an initial
public offering, Immelt told analysts and investors at a
conference last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in  New York  at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  