-- Spanish Bonds Rise Amid Stimulus Outlook; Greek Securities Slide
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2013-06-12T15:29:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/german-government-bonds-little-changed-as-consumer-prices-rise.html
Spanish  government bonds  rose, with
10-year securities halting a two-day decline, as investors
weighed the outlook for additional central-bank stimulus.  Portuguese and Irish bonds also rallied amid speculation
judges in Germany’s highest court will rule in favor of the
 European Central Bank ’s bond-buying program known as Outright
Monetary Transactions. Germany’s two-year notes gained for the
first time in five day as the nation sold 4 billion euros ($5.33
billion) of the securities. Greek bonds tumbled for a sixth day.
on concern Prime Minister Antonis Samaras faces a rebellion
after shutting the nation’s public broadcaster overnight.  “There’s a bit of improvement in risk appetite,” said
 Peter Chatwell , a fixed-income strategist at Credit Agricole
Corporate & Investment Bank in  London . “Spanish bonds are
outperforming because  Italy  is weighed on by tomorrow’s supply.
It will be profit taking, rather than being driven on
fundamentals. The news we need is about central bank policy.”  Spain ’s 10-year yield dropped four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 4.62 percent at 4:24 p.m. London time after
climbing to 4.76 percent yesterday, the  highest  level since
April 9. The 5.4 percent bond due in January 2023 rose 0.34, or
3.40 euros per 1,000-euro face amount, to 105.95.  Spanish securities also advanced as a report showed euro-area  industrial output  unexpectedly increased in April. Factory
production rose 0.4 percent from March, when it climbed a
revised 0.9 percent, the European Union’s statistics office
said. The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists was for no change.  ‘Favorable Ruling’  The bonds of the euro-area’s high debt and deficit nations
were also supported as Dow Jones reported that Andreas Vosskuhle, chief justice of  Germany ’s Federal Constitutional
Court, said conditions on the ECB’s pledge may ensure the
central bank doesn’t overstep its powers.  “This should be good for expectations of a favorable
ruling on OMTs and therefore supportive for the periphery,”
said Gianluca Ziglio, executive director of fixed-income
research at Sunrise Brokers LLP in London.  Portuguese 10-year yields declined four basis points to
6.42 percent, and similar-maturity Irish yields dropped nine
basis points to 4.13 percent.  Portugal ’s President Anibal Cavaco Silva urged the ECB to
help the nation emerge from recession by buying the country’s
debt on the secondary market.  Portuguese Aid  “Portugal qualifies for secondary-market intervention for
public debt, which the European Central Bank at one point said
they would be able to carry out,”  Cavaco Silva  told reporters
at the European Parliament in Strasbourg,  France .  German two-year yields fell two basis points to 0.18
percent after rising to 0.24 percent yesterday, the highest
level since Feb. 13. The 10-year yield was little changed at
1.60 percent.  Germany allotted the two-year notes at an average yield of
0.18 percent, the highest level since a sale on Feb. 13, and up
from 0.02 percent on May 15.  Volatility on German bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets today followed by those of Belgium and  Finland ,
according to measures of 10-year debt, the yield spread between
two- and 10-year securities, and credit-default swaps.  Greek bonds extended this month’s decline after the
nation’s Pasok and Democratic Left parties, which make up the
coalition with Samaras’s New Democracy party, criticized the
decision to close the nation’s public broadcaster ERT and create
a new, smaller company.  The 10-year yield jumped 39 basis points to 10.41 percent
after increasing 46 basis points yesterday.  Italian bonds were little changed before the government
sells as much as 5 billion euros of debt maturing in 2016 and
2028 tomorrow. The 10-year yield declined one basis point to
4.36 percent.  Spanish securities returned 5.4 percent this year through
yesterday, according to the Bloomberg Spain Sovereign  Bond
Index. (BSPS)  German bonds fell 1.2 percent, while Greek securities
gained 28 percent, separate indexes show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  