-- Giancarlo Said to Be Vetted for Republican CFTC Commissioner Job
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h   a n d   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t
-- 2013-06-12T19:28:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/giancarlo-said-to-be-vetted-for-republican-cftc-commissioner-job.html
J. Christopher Giancarlo, executive
vice president at interdealer broker  GFI Group Inc. (GFIG) , is the top
candidate for a Republican appointment this year to the U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, according to three people
briefed on the matter.  Giancarlo is being vetted for the seat held by Jill E. Sommers, who has said she is planning to step down, according to
the people, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the
discussions aren’t public. If nominated and confirmed by the
Senate, he would join a five-member commission working to draft
Dodd-Frank Act regulations for the $633 trillion swaps market.  Giancarlo, reached by e-mail, declined to comment.  Amy
Brundage , a White House spokesperson, didn’t immediately respond
to a request for comment.  At GFI, Giancarlo has been an active participant in debates
over new derivatives regulations. He stepped down earlier this
year as chairman of the  Wholesale Market Brokers’ Association,
Americas , a group of five interdealer brokers that lobbied for
flexible rules on how swaps are traded using new execution
facilities.  Giancarlo also has  testified  before Congress, met with CFTC
officials and appeared at industry conferences focusing on how
the swaps rules were being implemented.  In December, Giancarlo warned House lawmakers that rules
being drafted by the CFTC threatened to put U.S. markets at a
disadvantage and that business might move overseas.  ‘Impartial Access’  He also said at the Dec. 12 hearing that efforts to convert
swaps into futures “entrenches the vertical monopolies of the
futures industry and thwarts Congress’s envisioned landscape of
competing SEFs and impartial access to swaps clearing.”  CME
Group (CME)  Inc., owner of the world’s largest futures exchange, and
IntercontinentalExchange Inc. have converted energy swaps into
futures and announced plans to create similar products in the
interest-rate and credit markets.  A federal judge on June 7 dismissed a lawsuit filed by
Bloomberg LP, the parent company of  Bloomberg News , that
challenged a CFTC rule setting higher collateral standards for
swaps than comparable futures.  The Obama administration is also considering Democrats to
fill slots on the CFTC now held by Chairman  Gary Gensler  and
Commissioner Bart Chilton, the people said. One candidate is
former Senate aide Amanda Renteria, said the people, adding that
the White House has hasn’t fully decided if she might replace
Gensler or Chilton.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Schmidt in Washington at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  