-- Gilead’s Viread Reduces HIV Risk for Drug Users in Study
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2013-06-12T18:43:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/gilead-s-viread-reduces-hiv-risk-for-drug-users-in-study.html
Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD) ’s Viread pill
reduced the risk of injected-drug users contracting the AIDS
virus by half in a study in  Thailand , a finding that may give
 public health  officials a new weapon to fight HIV’s spread.  In a trial involving 2,413 HIV-negative drug users in
Bangkok over five years, those who received Viread daily were 49
percent less likely to get infected with HIV than those who got
a placebo, researchers from the Thai Ministry of Public Health
and the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported
today in the  Lancet .  The findings confirm the results of earlier studies that
show  Foster City , California-based Gilead’s Viread and Truvada
can prevent infections among people at risk of catching the
virus, an approach called pre-exposure prophylaxis, or PrEP.
Health officials are planning pilot programs to turn the
promising study into a real-world public health intervention.  “In this population now we have an additional tool to help
protect against HIV infection,”  Michael Martin , a researcher
with the Atlanta-based CDC who helped lead the trial, said in a
telephone interview. “In some ways the work starts now to
determine how PrEP can be effectively integrated into current
strategies to reduce HIV infection around the world.”  Injected drug use is one of the main means of transmission
of HIV in Eastern Europe and Central Asia, where new infections
rose 7.7 percent from 2001 to 2011, defying a global downturn in
the virus’s spread, according to the Joint United Nations
Program on HIV/AIDS, or  UNAIDS .  PrEP Studies  Previous studies have shown PrEP can help reduce the risk
of HIV infection by 44 percent in gay and bisexual men, and by
as much as 75 percent in heterosexual couples in which one
member is infected. Another trial among heterosexual women in
 Africa  failed because the women didn’t consistently take the
pills. Today’s study is the first to show it also works for
illicit drug users.  Participants in the trial were chosen at random to receive
either Viread or placebo. Still, not everyone took the pill
every day. Among those who did, the  risk reduction  was as much
as 74 percent. Those who contracted HIV were referred for care
to Thailand’s health system, while those who remained HIV
negative are being offered Viread for another year.  Regular Testing  The participants received regular HIV testing, counseling,
assessments of the riskiness of their behavior, condoms and home
visits if they didn’t show up for an appointment, a level of
support that drug users may not have outside of a trial, said
 Anthony Fauci , director of the U.S. National Institute of
Allergy and  Infectious Diseases .  “In the real world they’re not going to have the close
following that they have when they’re in a study,” Fauci said
in a telephone interview. “The important part about the study
is that the proof-of-concept is clear. Now we’ve just got to do
a better job of making sure we implement it in a way that you
get an effective response outside a clinical trial.”  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  approved Truvada, a
combination of Viread and another Gilead drug called Emtriva,
almost a year ago for use by healthy heterosexual or homosexual
people who are at high risk of being infected with HIV.  Drug users will need more than a daily pill to keep them
from becoming infected, said Peter Godfrey-Faussett, UNAIDS’s
senior science adviser.  “HIV is only one of the many threats to many injecting
drug users’ daily lives,” he said in an e-mail. “On the other
hand, additional effective prevention tools are very welcome.
The challenge is how to build ‘prevention literacy’.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  