-- Glencore Xstrata Appoints Former Morgan Stanley CEO to Board
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2013-06-12T16:27:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/glencore-xstrata-appoints-former-morgan-stanley-ceo-to-board.html
Glencore Xstrata Plc (GLEN) , the world’s
biggest exporter of power station coal, named former  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  Chief Executive Officer John Mack among three new board
members to replace departed directors from Xstrata Plc.  Mack and Peter Grauer, chairman of Bloomberg LP, the parent
company of Bloomberg News, join the board as independent non-executive directors. Current senior Glencore Xstrata executive
Peter Coates becomes an executive director, the Baar,
Switzerland-based company said today in a statement.  Glencore’s $29 billion all-share takeover of Xstrata,
completed last month, added coal, nickel, zinc and copper mines
to its cotton-to-crude oil trading empire and created the
world’s fourth-biggest mining company. Glencore Xstrata
continues to consult with shareholders as it searches for a new
chairman, Tony Hayward, interim chairman, said in the statement.  “These are interesting appointments,” SP Angel Corporate
Finance LLP analysts said in a note to clients. “John Mack has
a reputation of being a cost cutter.”  Three former Xstrata directors Ian Strachan, Con Fauconnier
and Peter Hooley, were rejected by shareholders at last month’s
annual general meeting in Switzerland. A fourth, Steve Robson,
quit hours before the AGM, which also saw the ousting of then
Chairman John Bond, formerly of Xstrata, with 81 percent of
investors voting against his appointment.  Former  BP Plc (BP/)  CEO Hayward, already a Glencore director, was
made interim chairman last month. He is due to stand aside once
a replacement is found.  Cost Cutter  Mack, 68, stepped down as chairman of Morgan Stanley at the
end of 2011, two years after leaving the CEO role he held at the
Wall Street securities firm from 2005. Mack boosted businesses
including trading, private equity and mortgages, a strategy that
backfired when the bank posted its first quarterly loss in 2007
on the eve of the financial crisis.  Since leaving as Morgan Stanley’s chairman, Mack has become
an adviser to companies including buyout firm KKR & Co., where
he signed on last year. The onetime bond salesman and trader had
a 35-year career at Morgan Stanley.  Mack, who developed a reputation over the years for cutting
costs, not only ran Morgan Stanley and Credit Suisse First
Boston at separate times, but also did a brief stint in 2005 as
the chairman of what was once the world’s largest hedge fund,
Arthur Samberg’s Pequot Capital Management Inc.  Women Directors  The three appointments leave Glencore Xstrata as the
largest company on  London ’s benchmark FTSE 100 Index without a
female board member. Glencore Xstrata ranks 21st in the index by
market value.  While the U.K. government has ruled out imposing quotas,
Prime Minister David Cameron has urged companies to do more to
promote women to board level. A 2011 report by Mervyn Davies, a
former banker, called for a target of 25 percent female
representation at the biggest businesses.  Glencore said in February that the appointment of a female
director will be an “important area of focus for the new
company.”  Glencore Xstrata fell 0.6 percent to 300.55 pence by the
close in London, the lowest in 11 months. The company has
interests in about 35 coal mines in Colombia, Africa and
 Australia , accounting for about 10 percent of global seaborne
supplies of the fuel.  Global Workforce  It’s the fourth-biggest producer of mined copper and third-largest in nickel, and employs about 190,000 people in more than
50 countries across its industrial and trading divisions.  The combined group expects to generate synergies “well
above” the stated target of $500 million a year by combining
with Xstrata, Chief Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg said last
month. He’s closing Xstrata’s Zug and London offices as part of
an effort to cut costs.  Glencore Xstrata is studying a plan to combine some of its
Australian coal operations with mines run by Rio Tinto Group to
reduce costs, two people with knowledge of the matter have told
Bloomberg News.  “Changes are already afoot at the group with Glencore
thought to be studying a plan to combine some of its Australian
operations with mines run by Rio Tinto,” the SP Angel analysts
said. “With high costs in Australia against weak thermal coal
prices, any cost initiatives should be welcome.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  