-- Gold Imports by India Seen Tumbling as Curbs Boost Titan’s Costs
-- B y   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 2013-06-13T10:42:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/gold-imports-by-india-seen-tumbling-as-curbs-boost-titan-s-costs.html
Gold imports by  India , the world’s
largest consumer, are plunging as an increase in tax and
restrictions on financing shipments boost costs for jewelers,
helping the nation contain a record current-account deficit.  Shipments in June will decline as only orders placed before
the curbs are being imported now, said Rajesh Mehta, chairman of
 Rajesh Exports Ltd. (RJEX)  Overseas purchases tumbled to an average $36
million a day in the 14 business days through June 7, compared
with an average $135 million a day through 13 days until May 20,
 Raghuram Rajan , chief economic adviser in the  Finance Ministry ,
said in a statement on June 11.  India’s rupee slumped to a record this week partly on
concern that the current-account deficit will widen from an all-time high in the last quarter of 2012. Imports surged in the
past two months as buyers thronged shops for ornaments, coins
and bars after bullion entered a  bear market  in April as
investors sold the metal in favor of riskier assets on
speculation that the global economy was recovering.  “The measures taken by the government will work because
gold has been made more expensive, and in the next two-three
months we should see gold imports coming down,” said
 Dharmakirti Joshi , chief economist with Crisil Ltd., the Indian
unit of  Standard & Poor’s . “Many people had frontloaded
purchases because of the price drop, and if inflation declines
then the attractiveness of gold as a hedge will drop further.”  Jewelers Hit  The government raised the import duty to 8 percent from 6
percent on June 5, a fourfold increase from January last year.
The central bank has also placed restrictions on overseas
purchases on a consignment basis and limited imports for local
consumption against cash only. The curbs will change the
financial models of jewelers in the country, said Bhaskar Bhat,
managing director of  Titan Industries Ltd. (TTAN)  Shares of Titan and
other jewelers have slumped in Mumbai this week on concern
rising import costs may hurt their profit margins.  “The intention of the government is that imports have to
be curbed and it has begun to work,” said Bhat, whose Titan is
the nation’s biggest jeweler by value. “In the last seven or
eight days, imports have come down significantly.”  The shortfall in the  current account , the broadest measure
of trade, was $32.6 billion in the last quarter of 2012 and is
the biggest risk to the $1.9 trillion economy, according to the
central bank.  Chidambaram’s Appeal  Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram appealed to
Indians to “resist the temptation to buy gold,” saying reduced
imports may help tackle the current-account deficit and the
weakness in the rupee.  “If there is less demand in the next six months, then
there will be a dramatic impact on the current-account deficit
and every other market,” Chidambaram told a briefing in  New
Delhi  today. “To think that gold is the safest investment is
wrong and people should put their money in other saving
instruments.”  Imports were 117 metric tons in April after prices plunged
to a two-year low, according to Haresh Soni, chairman of the All
India Gems & Jewellery Trade Federation. Purchases were
estimated at 162 tons in May, according to the Finance Ministry.
Shipments may decline by as much as 20 percent in 2013 from 860
tons a year earlier because of the tax increase, according to
Bachhraj Bamalwa, a director at the federation.  Wedding Demand  “In the longer run, it may not be the solution, but gold
is a large component of imports and is deemed to be unproductive
so the government is trying to make gold less attractive,”
Crisil’s Joshi said. The decline in imports may bring down the
 trade gap  in the second half of the year, he said.  While demand for bullion is typically low during June and
July in the absence of weddings and festivals, a slump in the
rupee to a record low against the  U.S. dollar  will make the
metal more expensive for buyers, according to Prithviraj
Kothari, managing director of RiddiSiddhi Bullions Ltd.  The rupee touched an all-time low of 58.9850 on June 11.
The currency’s 6.7 percent drop against the dollar this quarter
is the biggest in  Asia .  Gold for immediate delivery was at $1,386.16 an ounce at 4
p.m. in Mumbai today, down 17 percent this year. Prices reached
a two-year low of $1,321.95 on April 16 after rallying for the
past 12 years in the longest bull run in at least nine decades.  Titan Rebounds  The curbs on bullion imports and financing will increase
the debt levels of jewelers, Titan’s Bhat said. Jewelers may be
forced to pass on the increase in import costs to consumers,
Rajesh Exports’ Mehta said.  “These regulations will affect cash margins of jewelers
due to higher cost of funding as equity or unsecured domestic
loans will be used to fund purchases and inventory will have to
be fully paid for in cash compared with gold on lease earlier,”
Goldman Sachs Sachs Group Inc. said June 11.  Shares of Titan rose for the first time in 10 days in
Mumbai today after plunging 32 percent in the last nine days,
the longest losing streak since September 2008. Titan climbed
4.5 percent to 213.75 rupees,  Gitanjali Gems Ltd. (GITG) , the largest
retailer by revenue, rose 0.5 percent to 532.65 rupees and
 Tribhovandas Bhimji Zaveri Ltd. (TBZL)  rallied 3.1 percent to 203.60
rupees, after declining 19.4 percent in the previous three
sessions. Rajesh Exports dropped 1.7 percent to 116.65 rupees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  