-- Goldman Sachs Wins Ruling After Dragon Systems Deal Trial
-- B y   J a n e l l e   L a w r e n c e
-- 2013-06-12T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/goldman-sachs-s-trial-win-in-dragon-systems-deal-upheld.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s missteps
advising speech-recognition pioneer Dragon Systems Inc. in a
merger weren’t egregious enough for the bank to be found in
violation of a  Massachusetts  law, a federal judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge Patti B. Saris in Boston, citing a jury
verdict in January that rejected a $580 million negligence suit
filed by Dragon founders Jim and Janet Baker and two other
shareholders, denied the plaintiffs’ request for claims against
Goldman Sachs under the state’s Unfair Trade Practices statute.  The judge called the investment banking team assigned to
the all-stock sale of Dragon to a Belgium competitor in 2000
“professionally negligent” because it didn’t fully vet buyer
Lernout & Hauspie Speech Products NV, which collapsed in an
accounting fraud rendering the deal worthless.  “The reasons why small startup companies like Dragon go to
a place like Goldman to assist with hatching their golden eggs
is because they don’t have their own expertise to analyze
revenue projects by asking tough questions to potential merger
partners,” the judge said.  “Still, I give weight to the fact that the jury found for
the defendant on this claim and there was sufficient evidence to
support that finding even if I conclude otherwise,” Saris said
in yesterday’s ruling.  The Bakers’ attorney, Alan Cotler of Reed Smith LLP, said
yesterday in an e-mail that his firm was still studying the
ruling.  Goldman Sachs said yesterday in a statement it was pleased
the judge respected the jury’s unanimous verdict.  Jury’s Conclusion  “The evidence showed, and the jury concluded, that the
banking team satisfactorily performed its role for Dragon
Systems in all respects,” the New York-based bank said.  The Bakers, who started Dragon in 1982 in their Newton,
Massachusetts, home, along with shareholders Robert Roth and
Paul Bamberg, lost about $300 million along with the
intellectual property, the judge found.  “Plaintiffs may have been brilliant mathematicians and
scientists, but they had no financial experience with mergers
and acquisitions,” Saris said.  The Goldman team was lead by Richard Wayner, then 31, and
included two bankers in their 20s, and a technology strategist.  The judge found Wayner should have spoken up at a key
Dragon board meeting and told members that Goldman Sachs wanted
further review of L&H’s revenue figures in  Asia , which were
later revealed as a fraud. Instead, Wayner deferred to Janet
Baker, who was eager to complete the sale and made positive
comments about the pending deal, the judge said.  Due Diligence  “At the very least, in my view, the Goldman team should
have disclosed their continuing due diligence concerns,” Saris
said. “However, there is no evidence that their failure to do
so was egregious.”  Plaintiffs argued Goldman Sachs should have told Dragon
that the bank’s own Principal Investment Area considered an
investment in L&H in the late 1990s and decided against risking
the bank’s money.  The judge found none of the bankers on the Dragon deal knew
about the work known as “Project Sermon,” and no one at
Goldman withheld information about why the bank never invested.  L&H created bogus customers, booked circular transactions
with shell companies and recorded loans as sales from 1996 to
2000, according to a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
probe. Four executives were sentenced to prison for fraud in a
criminal investigation.  The case is Baker v. Goldman Sachs & Co., 09-cv-10053, U.S.
District Court, District of Massachusetts ( Boston ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janelle Lawrence in Boston federal court
at  jmlawrence@me.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  