-- Google Buying Waze in Bid to Catch Up With Facebook
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-06-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/google-passed-by-facebook-seeks-mobile-comeback-with-waze-tech.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  is spending more than $1
billion to help it recover ground lost after its mapping tool
was  surpassed  by  Facebook Inc. (FB)  as the most popular U.S.
smartphone application.  Google said yesterday that it’s buying Waze Inc., maker of
software that relies on user input to make digital maps more
accurate and up to date.  The deal keeps Waze away from competitors such as Facebook,
which too had considered a purchase, people with knowledge of
the matter said last month. It also underscores the urgency of
wooing users who increasingly access services such as driving
directions and social networking on smartphones. The number of
U.S. visitors to map applications in April grew 3.7 percent to
more than 75 million in the past year,  ComScore Inc.  said.  “It is a lot of money, but at the same time it really does
further Google’s ability to really push into the local, mapping
and mobile areas,” said Ron Josey, an analyst at JMP Securities
Inc. in  New York , who rates Google market outperform.  Google paid about $1.1 billion for Waze, people with
knowledge of the matter said. It’s the fourth-largest deal for a
company that has made more than 100 acquisitions since it was
founded in 1998, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Even as Google  slipped  in mobile-app rankings last year, it
remains the leader in mapping tools. Google Maps was accessed by
66 percent of U.S. smartphone users last year, ComScore said.
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Waze’s map tools didn’t make the top 10.  Maps Debacle  Just how crucial maps are to smartphone users became clear
last year during a dust-up between Apple and Google. Apple was
widely lambasted by consumers and reviewers after replacing maps
using Google data. In its place came a home-grown app by Apple
marred by unreliable landmark searches, routes that got users
lost and a lack of public-transit directions.  Apple Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  later apologized for
the misstep, which contributed to the removal of  Scott Forstall 
as the company’s software chief. Google later built its own
iPhone maps app that quickly became a top download.  Waze, which has offices in  Israel  and  Palo Alto ,
 California , is poised to help Google maintain its mapping lead.
The company has amassed more than 50 million users with tools
that help drivers get to their destinations quickly, said Chris
Silva, an analyst at Altimeter in Melrose,  Massachusetts . It
fared better than Google in some tests, he said.  Takeover Discussions  Waze’s app, which runs on Apple’s iOS and Google’s Android
mobile operating system, alerts users to potential traffic
slowdowns and suggests alternative ways to reach destinations.  The service also notifies drivers of road work, potential
hazards and speed traps, using input from users.  “I’ve seen that the traffic data can be much more
reliable,” Silva said.  In a testament to the company’s allure, Waze fielded
expressions of interest from multiple parties, a person familiar
with the matter said last month. Facebook held talks to acquire
Waze for as much as $1 billion, said two people, who asked not
to be identified because the talks were private.  While Google will keep Waze independent, it will also use
data from Waze to improve its own services, Brian McClendon, a
vice president at  Mountain View , California-based Google, said
in a  blog post  yesterday.  “We’re excited about the prospect of enhancing  Google Maps 
with some of the traffic update features provided by Waze and
enhancing Waze with Google’s search capabilities,” he said.
“The Waze community and its dedicated team have created a great
source of timely road corrections and updates.”  Apple ‘Aggressive’  Google has taken other steps designed to keep its mapping
lead. The company last month gave a preview of the biggest
overhaul of the map service since its inception, providing more
context and recommendations, whether for a particular restaurant
or museum. While the revamp is for desktops, the updates are
likely to be rolled out to mobile users as well.  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, is striving to
improve its mapping services. The company said this week it
would add its mapping application to desktop computers, enabling
users to send directions to their iPhones.  “Apple’s been pretty aggressive,” said  Carl Howe , an
analyst at the Yankee Group Inc. Google “didn’t want Apple
picking up Waze as a way to make their current maps product
better pretty quickly.”  Advertising Potential  Google will also need to ensure that the transaction can
stand up to regulatory scrutiny. While the purchase might not be
blocked for its potential to alter the competitive landscape, it
could still end up being studied closely, according to Allen Grunes, a former antitrust attorney for the  Justice Department 
in  Washington .  Aside from helping Google make its maps more social, Waze
also may contribute to sales. Waze provides advertising based on
locations. For example, marketers can target users that have
signaled they like a company with highlights of their
businesses, Silva said.  Location offers a new way for advertisers to reach users
when they are near a gas station, coffee shop or pizza place.
Promotions tied to mobile maps could add $1.1 billion to $2.4
billion in revenue from local businesses in the U.S. by 2016,
according to estimates by analysts at Barclays Plc.  Waze also shores up Google’s push into social-networking
through its Google+ initiative, according to  Charles Golvin , an
analyst at  Forrester Research Inc. (FORR)  That bolsters its efforts
against Facebook, the owner of the world’s most popular social-networking service.  “What Waze would bring is the social aspect around
location and getting more information from your social
connections,” he said. “Given Google’s dominance in mapping
and navigation this is really much more of a valuable addition
to their social platform.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  