-- Gorman Sees 23% Morgan Stanley Brokerage Margin as Markets Rise
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-06-12T18:31:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/gorman-sees-23-morgan-stanley-brokerage-margin-as-markets-rise.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  Chief Executive
Officer  James Gorman  said his firm’s wealth-management unit can
earn a pretax margin of more than 23 percent by 2015 as  interest
rates  and stock markets climb.  The unit can achieve a 20 percent to 22 percent margin
absent any changes in the broader markets, Gorman, 54, said
today at a conference sponsored by New York-based Morgan
Stanley. The firm is awaiting approval to buy the remaining 35
percent of a brokerage joint venture that comprises the bulk of
the division.  The latest margin target is the highest yet for the world’s
largest brokerage, a business Gorman is relying on to help boost
return on equity. Shortly after taking over as CEO, Gorman set a
goal of 20 percent by end of 2011, which the division failed to
reach. Gorman said earlier this year he made that prediction
“foolishly.”  “We see a transformation in what is going to occur in our
overall economics as an institution through this transaction,
and we remain very excited about it,” Gorman said today.  The unit produced a 17 percent pretax margin in each of the
past two quarters, topping a target of 15 percent by the middle
of this year.  “A lot of people, when we exceeded the 15 percent in the
fourth quarter of last year, thought we were low-balling it,
staying with our new target of 15 percent through the middle of
this year,” Gorman said today. “But we thought, frankly,
changing margin projections every quarter doesn’t make a lot of
sense.”  Client Assets  The business, led by  Greg Fleming , had 16,284 financial
advisers and $1.79 trillion in client assets at the end of
March. The division accounted for almost half of the bank’s net
 revenue  last year.  Gorman has set a price with New York-based Citigroup Inc.
to purchase the rest of the brokerage venture, which was created
in 2009. Morgan Stanley said in January that it will pay $4.7
billion for the last piece, which will place demands on an
additional $400 million of capital. Gorman said today that the
firm will take a $200 million charge when it completes the
purchase.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  