-- Green Groups Seek Higher U.S. Coal Fees After Audit
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2013-06-12T15:55:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/green-groups-seek-higher-u-s-coal-fees-after-audit.html
The  Sierra Club  and the  Natural
Resources Defense Council  said the U.S. Interior Department
should charge companies that mine coal more after an audit found
the federal government may be missing out on millions of dollars
in payments.  The Bureau of Land Management, which oversees the mineral
leasing program, didn’t fully account for coal’s export
potential and may have missed out on $60 million in lease
revenue, according to a report by Mary L. Kendall, deputy
inspector general of  the Interior Department. Exports have
doubled to 125 millions tons in 2012, compared to 2007,
according to the report, released yesterday.  Auditors also found that many leases are sold in
uncompetitive auctions. The inspector general found that more
than 80 percent of the sales for coal leases in the Powder River
Basin in  Wyoming  -- the most actively mined area in the U.S. --
received only one bid in the last 20 years.  “This report makes it clear: At a time when we’re
struggling with  federal budget  cuts, we’re simultaneously giving
away taxpayer dollars and the public’s valuable natural
resources to the coal industry,” Sharon Buccino, the director
of the Natural Resources Defense Council’s land and wildlife
program, said in a statement.  She said Interior Secretary Sally Jewell should put a
“true price on coal” that also includes its “social and
environmental costs.”  $60 Million  The U.S. collected more than $2.4 billion in bonuses and
royalties from coal companies. The audit said the U.S. may have
missed out on $60 million since 2000 due to undervalued leases.  Coal from federal lands account for about 40 percent of the
total U.S. production. The Interior Department manages 314
leases, according to the audit.  Luke Popovich, a spokesman for the  National Mining
Association , a Washington-group whose members include  Peabody
Energy Corp. (BTU) , the largest U.S. coal company by sales, said the
potential lost revenue is only a small slice of the money coal
companies are providing to the U.S. in royalty and lease
payments.  The auditors’ report “offers guidance to federal agencies
for enhancing the program’s effectiveness but the resulting
gains they estimate amount to a rounding error compared to the
total sums they document are paid to taxpayers,” Popovich said
in a statement.  Senator  Ron Wyden , an Oregon Democrat and chairman of the
Energy and Natural Resources Committee, said Congress should
“take another look” at the coal leasing program to “ensure
taxpayers are collecting every dime they’re owed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  