-- Blank Screens Spark Greek Protests as TV Shutdown Bites Samaras
-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n   a n d   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2013-06-12T22:46:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/greek-coalition-partners-criticize-samaras-on-state-tv-shutdown.html
When Maria Andriopoulou switches on
her television, she no longer knows what to watch now that the 
Greek government has shut the country’s public broadcaster.  “I never expected that we’d reach this point,” the 49-year-old Athens hotel worker said yesterday. “I’m perplexed by
this. They have no right to infringe services like this.”  Popular anger is intensifying in  Greece  and its islands
after Prime Minister Antonis Samaras this week ordered the
closing of ERT, which operated seven television channels and 29
 radio stations . He also faces a political rebellion that
threatens to undermine his government a year after gaining power
following two elections in six weeks that raised questions over
whether the country would stay in the euro.  Pasok and Democratic Left, which make up the coalition with
Samaras’s New Democracy, said they wouldn’t support the law in a
parliamentary vote. Samaras, whose party has 125 seats, relies
on Pasok’s 28 lawmakers to pass legislation in the 300-seat
chamber and the premier will arrange talks today.  “State television belongs to the Greek people,” said
 Panos Kammenos , leader of Independent Greeks, a small opposition
party that submitted a censure motion against the government.
“It is the signal broadcast to Thrace, contrasting with Turkish
television’s propaganda. It is our link with the islands of the
Aegean. It is our voice in the diaspora.”  Island Isolation  ERT began television broadcasting in 1966 and continued
through the years of military dictatorship that began the
following year and lasted until 1974.  For hundreds of isolated islands, it was the link with the
Greek mainland, a “window to the rest of the world,” Pavlos
Vogiatzis, a New Democracy lawmaker for the island of Lesvos,
told the local Radio Kalloni yesterday.  It was ERT that told Greeks, first via radio and then by
television, of then Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s
unexpected announcement on April 23, 2010, that he would trigger
the euro area’s first financial rescue. He was visiting the
island of Kastelorizo, Greece’s eastern outpost.  Leros, an Aegean island close to the border with  Turkey 
“demands to hear Greek radio and watch Greek television, not
Turkish television,” Michael Kolias, the island’s mayor, said
in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Strike Planned  ERT employees continued to broadcast over the Internet,
while journalists nationally are striking for a second day.
Unions called a 24-hour walkout that will disrupt flights,
public transportation and government services.  Samaras meanwhile is sticking to his decision. The
announcement “should have been made years ago,” he said in a
speech in  Athens  yesterday. He pledged to restore “true public
television with the most radical reform.”  ERT is funded by a license fee of about 50 euros ($66.70)
levied through electricity bills. Its revenue amounted to 319
million euros in 2011, according to the organization’s most
recent financial statement.  “The old statist system definitely had to change but there
still has to be a public TV because it offers things the private
sector doesn’t,” said Michalis Giannopoulos, 55, another hotel
employee in the Greek capital. “This was rushed. These things
normally need some discussion.’  ‘Propaganda’  The company has never been far away from politics. An
information booklet on Greece from 2007, produced by the last
New Democracy government, said ERT’s “one-time role as a
mouthpiece of government propaganda” led to an erosion of its
credibility with the public. Deregulation in the 1980s resulted
in the proliferation of private TV channels, it said.  Samaras, 62, clashed with the state-run broadcaster in the
past. Two morning-show journalists were replaced in October 2012
after they made critical comments about Public Order Minister
Nikolaos Dendias. The dismissals provoked a protest on Nov. 1.  “State television works for the party in office,” George
Pleios, head of communication and media Studies at the  National
University  of Athens, said yesterday. “I’m not so sure this
time we’re going to have something different. The evidence of
that is the way the minister closed the state television, in a
non-democratic, authoritarian way.”  Turkish Example  Criticism of that style of government has led to violent
clashes in neighboring Turkey, where Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  is facing down protesters in Istanbul after a police
crackdown began on May 31. Among their gripes is influence on a
 media industry  they say is driven by appeasing the government.  In Greece, the signal for the public television channels
was switched off by the  Finance Ministry  shortly before midnight
on June 11. Government spokesman Simos Kedikoglou announced
plans to suspend the 2,600 jobs at ERT. A new, smaller company
called NERIT will be created instead.  French Culture Minister Aurelie Filippetti, talking to
reporters after the weekly cabinet meeting in Paris yesterday,
called the decision to close ERT “deplorable.” “Austerity
cannot be a reason to eliminate pluralism in media,” she said.  The move wasn’t related to any demands by Greece’s euro
area and International Monetary Fund lenders and is due to ERT’s
costs and a lack of transparency, said Kedikoglou.  Coalition Divide  Under an agreement with international creditors, Greece is
required to reduce the number of workers on the state payroll by
15,000 by the end of 2014. Pasok, which governed between 2009
and 2011 as Greece sought aid, said it disagreed with the
decision and the government’s handling of it.  “The risks of the coalition splitting are higher than they
have been in the recent past,” Alexander White, a European
political analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  London , said in a
note yesterday. “The sudden appearance of blank screens across
the country will enter the public consciousness in a way which
other measures may not have done.”  Kedikoglou said the new company would be fully independent
and broadcasts will resume “soon.” Employees would be
compensated for the loss of their jobs and would be free to
apply to the new company, he said.  “I’m very unhappy that ERT has closed, very unhappy,”
said Andriopoulou, the hotel worker. “We expected a level of
cultural output that ERT usually gave. Not 100 percent of the
time, but 90 percent of the time. Now if I turn on the TV I
don’t know what to watch.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net 
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maria Petrakis at   mpetrakis@bloomberg.net  