-- Gulf Gasoline Gains on Shipments to East Coast, Midwest
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y
-- 2013-06-12T19:14:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/gulf-gasoline-gains-on-shipments-to-east-coast-midwest.html
Gulf Coast  spot gasoline
strengthened after a government report showed  inventories  fell
to the lowest level in a month as more product was sent via
pipeline to the Midwest and Northeast.  Stockpiles of motor gasoline on the Gulf Coast, referred to
as PADD 3, slipped  1.44 million barrels  to 75.6 million in the
week ended June 7, the lowest level since May 10, according to
U.S. Energy Information Administration data.  “This kind of decline should be expected in June,” Tom Finlon, director of Energy Analytics Group Ltd., said in a phone
interview from Jupiter,  Florida . “You’re supposed to have
strong flow through pipelines up to the East Coast and Midwest
around this time.”  Conventional, 85-octane gasoline, or CBOB, on the Gulf
strengthened 0.5 cent to  12.75 cents  a gallon below futures on
the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at 1:59 p.m. The conventional,
87-octane grade also increased 0.25 cent to a discount of 10
cents.  Gulf Coast prices have been supported as refiners and
blenders sent gasoline to the U.S. Midwest via Explorer Pipeline
Co.’s Explorer line, where refinery shutdowns curtailed supply
and pushed gasoline prices in Chicago as much as 85 cents over
the Gulf June 3, and to the U.S. East Coast on Colonial Pipeline
Co.’s line.  Also, a fluid catalytic cracker remained offline at
 Marathon Petroleum Corp. (MPC) ’s Texas City, Texas, refinery.  “I’d imagine that’s also having an impact on the market,”
Finlon said today.  Pipeline Allocation  Colonial allocated shipments this week on Line 1, which
runs from Houston to Greensboro,  North Carolina , while the
Explorer line was delayed in recent weeks due to higher-than-normal demand, according to the companies. Explorer carries
gasoline and diesel from the Gulf to the Midwest.  A company issues an allocation when demand to ship fuel
exceeds a line’s capacity.  The  3-2-1 crack spread  on the U.S. Gulf Coast, a rough
measure of refining margins based on West Texas Intermediate oil
in Cushing,  Oklahoma , dropped 37 cents to $20.07 a barrel. The
same spread for Light Louisiana Sweet oil slid 62 cents to
$10.92 a barrel, a second consecutive decline, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harvey in  New York  at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  