-- IBM Said to Start U.S. Job Cuts Today Amid Global Reduction
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-06-12T20:52:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/ibm-said-to-start-u-s-jobs-cuts-amid-1-billion-restructuring.html
International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM) , the world’s largest computer-services provider, began
cutting U.S. jobs today as part of a global restructuring plan
announced in April, a person familiar with the move said.  The reduction targets employees with a range of seniority,
from rank-and-file staff to executives, said the person, who
asked not to be named because the information is private. Some
U.S. workers began to receive notifications of the cuts last
night, according to Lee Conrad, a coordinator for  Alliance@IBM ,
an employee group. The restructuring will cost $1 billion
worldwide, including severance expenses.  IBM announced the job-cutting effort after releasing
disappointing first-quarter results in April. The Armonk, New
York-based company posted profit of $3 a share in the period,
missing the $3.05 predicted by analysts -- the first earnings
shortfall since 2005, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
IBM said at the time that the job reduction would be
concentrated overseas and mostly complete by the end of June.  The company is probably cutting 6,000 to 8,000 jobs
globally, based on the $1 billion cost figure, said Laurence Balter, an analyst at Oracle Investment Research in Fox Island,
 Washington . That would represent less than 2 percent of IBM’s
 total workforce  of 434,246 as of Dec. 31.  ‘Workforce Remix’  Alliance@IBM said on its website that 121 employees were
cut from a unit within IBM’s Systems and Technology group, the
hardware division that saw revenue drop 17 percent last quarter.  “Change is constant in the technology industry and
transformation is an essential feature of our business model,”
IBM said today in a statement, without giving specifics on the
job cuts. “Consequently, some level of workforce remix is a
constant requirement for our business. Given the competitive
nature of our industry, we do not publicly discuss the details
of staffing plans.”  IBM shares  fell 1.4 percent to $201.20 at the close in  New
York . The stock has climbed 5 percent this year, rebounding from
a tumble in April following its lower-than-projected earnings.  The $1 billion plan represents an increase over IBM’s job-cut efforts in recent years. The company spent $803 million on
workforce restructuring in 2012, up from $440 million in 2011.  IBM also has been cutting hours of its contract employees.
 CDI Corp. (CDI) , a Philadelphia-based provider of staffing and
outsourcing services, told its staff working for IBM to limit
their hours in May, according to a memo obtained by Bloomberg.
IBM at the time said that the company relies on contractors to
manage labor costs on information-technology projects for
clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  