-- Iceland’s Currency Interventions Help Keep Rates on Hold
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2013-06-12T09:08:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/iceland-s-currency-interventions-help-keep-rates-on-hold.html
Iceland’s central bank left its
 benchmark interest rate  unchanged for a fifth consecutive
meeting after currency market interventions took pressure off
the krona and helped cool inflation.  The seven-day collateral lending rate was kept at 6
percent, Reykjavik-based  Sedlabanki  said today in a statement on
its website.  The intervention policy appears to have “contributed to
greater exchange rate stability,” the bank said. The policy
“is therefore conducive to providing a firmer anchor for
inflation expectations and promoting more rapid disinflation
than would occur otherwise.”  Iceland’s central bank intervened in foreign exchange
markets twice last month to strengthen the krona, according to
Islandsbanki hf. Policy makers are trying to protect the
currency from losses as they work to phase out  capital controls 
in place since the island’s 2008 banking meltdown.  The krona was little changed at 160.31 kronur per euro as
of 9:08 a.m. in Reykjavik.  The currency has gained more than 5 percent against the
euro this year, helping slow inflation to 3.3 percent in May,
from more than 6 percent last year. The central bank raised
rates six times since August 2011 to prevent krona losses from
fueling inflation.  ‘Action Plan’  Stabilizing the krona and exiting currency controls are key
goals of the new government, which took office after winning
April 27 elections. Prime Minister Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson
pledged on June 10 to push a new “action plan” to cut
household debt burdens. Work on the 10 different proposals will
begin immediately and be completed by next spring, he said.  Gunnlaugsson’s Progressive Party and the Independence Party
were able to oust the Social Democrat-led coalition by promising
tax cuts and mortgage relief.  Iceland, which completed a 33-month International Monetary
Fund program in August 2011, is now outgrowing much of  Europe  as
it recovers from its recession.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  