-- Midtown Beats London’s West End in Office-Price Rebound
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2013-06-12T16:45:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/midtown-beats-london-s-west-end-in-office-price-rebound.html
Midtown Manhattan office-building
price gains have outpaced those in  London ’s West End as investor
demand for New York properties sends values above the highs
before the financial crisis.  Office prices in Midtown have more than doubled since their
trough in the fourth quarter of 2009, Moody’s Investors Service
said in a report today. West End prices climbed 65 percent from
their low in the third quarter of that year, according to the
report. The West End, which includes the districts of Mayfair
and St. James’s, has the most expensive office rents in the U.K.
and is home to Europe’s largest concentration of hedge funds.  “The recovery in  midtown  Manhattan  office  prices has been
much stronger post-crisis than its London counterpart, the West
End,” Moody’s said in the report today. “New York’s
comparatively stronger post-crisis employment growth has
contributed to its stronger office price growth.”  Recent deals for Midtown skyscrapers have approached or
exceeded  peak  levels reached in 2007, before the credit crisis
caused values to plummet. In the past two weeks, buyers agreed
to pay about $2,100 a square foot, a record, for 650 Madison
Ave., and a 40 percent stake in the General Motors Building was
acquired at about $1,700 a square foot. RXR Realty agreed to buy
a 49 percent share of Worldwide Plaza for $660 million, more
than its owners paid for the entire tower in 2009, two people
briefed on the deal said last week.  Office prices in Midtown are now 19 percent more than their
highs before the market crash, while prices in the West End are
6 percent higher than the peak, Moody’s said in the report.  The New York area has returned to its pre-crisis level of
8.6 million jobs, while London is about 250,000 positions short
of its peak of 7.8 million, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  