-- IEA Cuts Demand Forecast for OPEC Crude as China Cools
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-06-12T11:27:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/iea-cuts-demand-forecast-for-opec-crude-as-china-growth-cools.html
(Corrects change in  China  demand in fifth paragraph.)  The  International Energy Agency 
trimmed demand forecasts for OPEC’s crude in the second half of
the year amid signs of slowing growth in China as output from
the producer group rose to a seven-month high.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will need
to provide an average 29.8 million barrels a day in the second
half, the IEA said today in its monthly market report, lowering
its assessment from the previous report by 200,000. That would
require OPEC to cut output by 1.1 million barrels from the 30.9
million it pumped in May, according to the report. The agency
kept its global oil demand estimates for this year unchanged.  “While  Europe ’s economic woes are taking a toll on demand,
there are mounting signs that China’s oil use, like its economy,
may have shifted to a lower gear,” the Paris-based adviser to
28 oil-consuming nations said.  Brent crude  has lost almost 8 percent this year, trading
today at $102 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange, as economic stagnation in Europe, slowing expansion in
China and threats to recovery in the U.S. constrain fuel
consumption. OPEC pledged at its most recent meeting on May 31
to restrain excess production.  Global oil demand will increase by 785,000 barrels a day,
or 0.9 percent, to 90.6 million a day as “relatively sluggish
macroeconomic conditions are expected to keep a lid on growth,”
the IEA said. While China will still account for about half of
global growth, the agency curtailed projections for the world’s
biggest energy user, forecasting that Chinese demand will rise
this year by 365,000 barrels a day to 9.96 million, or 15,000
less than anticipated last month.  Ample Supply  “The global picture drawn by the IEA has stayed the same,
one of relatively slow demand growth and ample supply,”  Olivier Jakob , managing director at Petromatrix GmbH, a consulting
company in Zug,  Switzerland , said by phone yesterday of the
agency’s earlier forecasts this year. “The picture has been
confirmed by the micro supply and demand conditions and price
action in the market.”  OPEC, responsible for 40 percent of global supplies,
boosted production by 135,000 barrels a day to 30.9 million a
day last month as higher output from  Saudi Arabia ,  Iran  and the
 United Arab Emirates  compensated for lower supplies from Iraq,
Libya and  Nigeria .  Saudi Arabia increased daily production by 220,000 barrels
to a six-month peak of 9.56 million to meet higher domestic
power consumption for air conditioning units, the report showed.  Non-OPEC Output  The agency kept its assessment of supplies outside OPEC in
2013 unchanged. Non-OPEC producers led by the U.S. and  Canada 
will bolster output by 1.1 million barrels a day this year to
54.5 million a day.  OPEC yesterday kept its estimate for global demand for this
year unchanged. The group projects consumption will increase by
780,000 barrels a day, or 0.9 percent, this year to 89.7 million
a day, or about 900,000 a day less than the IEA.  Total inventories  of crude and refined products in
industrialized nations are at a “marginal” surplus compared
with their five-year average, having increased by 16.7 million
barrels in April to 2.68 billion, according to the IEA.  -- Editors: Raj Rajendran, Stephen Cunningham  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  