-- Tighter Oversight of Aircraft Design Urged by U.S. FAA
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-06-12T21:36:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/tighter-oversight-of-aircraft-design-urged-by-u-s-faa.html
U.S. regulators want to tighten
oversight of aircraft-industry suppliers, such as the
subcontractors that helped  Boeing Co. (BA)  design and build the 787’s
batteries, to reflect lessons learned from the plane’s
grounding.  The  Federal Aviation Administration  also plans to seek the
guidance of specialists outside the aviation industry to help
with certification of new aircraft designs, Associate
Administrator Margaret Gilligan said at a hearing today before a
House transportation panel.  “We need to enhance communication between manufacturers
and all the sub-tier providers that they buy parts from,”
Gilligan told the committee, without offering specifics. “FAA
needs to be monitoring them more closely as well.”  Boeing’s Dreamliner, which uses carbon fiber to save weight
and requires more electricity to gain efficiency, was grounded
for more than three months this year after  lithium-ion batteries 
on two of the planes overheated and spewed fumes.  The Chicago-based manufacturer used an unprecedented number
of subcontractors to build parts of the Dreamliner to reduce
financial risks on the new model. That arrangement led in part
to 787 program delays as some contractors fell behind schedule.  While an FAA review of the plane’s certification hasn’t
been completed yet, the agency is already considering changes to
improve the process, Gilligan said.  Multiple Suppliers  “We and Boeing agree that there were opportunities for
Boeing and FAA to understand better what was happening at the
battery manufacturer, for example,” Gilligan said in an
interview after testifying.  GS Yuasa Corp. (6674)  of Kyoto,  Japan , makes the plane’s battery
packs. The battery charger is manufactured by Tucson, Arizona-based Securaplane Technologies Inc., a unit of  Meggitt Plc (MGGT) ,
based at Bournemouth airport in Christchurch,  England . Both
suppliers sell the products to  Thales SA (HO) , based in Neuilly-sur-Seine,  France , which provides them to Boeing.  Parts of the aircraft’s electrical system, which interacts
with the batteries, were built by  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s
Hamilton Sundstrand division, now called UTC Aerospace Systems.  “There were some things that Boeing does at Boeing’s
facilities that they didn’t see GS Yuasa doing that Boeing
considers best practices,” Gilligan said. “That was
information that Boeing should have made sure it gave to its
suppliers.”  Twin Incidents  The FAA hasn’t decided how to alter its oversight and is
waiting for the review to be completed later in the summer, she
said.  Boeing’s chief engineer on the 787, Mike Sinnett, who also
testified at the hearing, declined a request for an interview
through Gayla Keller, a spokeswoman.  All Boeing suppliers must comply with the company’s quality
assurance program, which requires an outside review, Lawrence
Wilson, a spokesman, said in an e-mail.  The FAA said April 19 it had approved battery improvements
proposed by Boeing that would let the 50 Dreamliners in global
fleets return to service. The changes limit the chances of
batteries overheating, insulate individual cells from each other
and encase the powerpack in a fire-proof enclosure.  The Dreamliner was grounded Jan. 16 after the second
battery incident.  Firefighters in Boston took an hour and 40 minutes to
control a battery spewing flames on a  Japan Airlines (9201)  787 that
had just landed Jan. 7. Nine days later, an  All Nippon Airways
Co. (9202)  787 made an emergency landing at Takamatsu Airport in Japan
after one of its batteries overheated.  Outside Help  The two carriers, which have 27 of the planes, returned
their Dreamliners to service May 31 after Japanese regulators
signed off on the redesign and fixes were completed. Boeing has
delivered seven more Dreamliners since the grounding was lifted
for a total of 57, according to its website.  Another lesson the FAA has learned is that industries
outside of aviation can be tapped for help on technical matters,
Gilligan said. After the battery incidents, Boeing brought in a
panel of battery specialists to assist with its redesign, she
said.  Those outsiders can “make sure we haven’t overlooked
anything,” she said.  Sinnett told the committee that the incidents prompted the
company to alter the way it tests batteries.  Battery Tests  Tests during the plane’s certification didn’t prompt the
kind of violent overheating that took place in the two
incidents, he said.  “Boeing advanced the state of the art” for battery
testing, he said.  Boeing shares fell about 0.6 percent to $101.11 at 12:33
p.m. in  New York . The manufacturer has gained 35 percent this
year.  Gilligan and Sinnett defended the certification process
while acknowledging flaws in the Dreamliner batteries.  “A great airplane has returned to the sky and I am
confident it will serve our airline customers and the traveling
public extremely well for decades to come,” Sinnett said in his
testimony.  Gilligan also defended her agency’s use of Boeing employees
to perform initial approvals of the company’s aircraft designs.
The use of those workers for some of the battery certification
is under review by the U.S. National Transportation Safety
Board, which is examining the  Boston  fire.  “Limiting the use of technical experts because of who they
work for is the equivalent of imposing limitations on problem
solving,” Gilligan said. “That is not a limitation that FAA
would ever support.”  The 787 grounding, the first in the U.S. that wasn’t a
response to a fatal crash, was justified because the plane was
still untested, Gilligan said.  “The accident rate for commercial aircraft operations is
at an all-time low,” she said. “Neither the public nor the FAA
has the tolerance for that accident rate increasing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  