-- Highway Robbery Pushes Best Stock From Trucks to Ships
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2013-06-12T21:20:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/highway-robbery-pushes-best-stock-from-trucks-to-ships.html
Paranapanema SA (PMAM3) ,  Brazil ’s biggest
refined copper producer and best stock in the past year, is
switching to ships from trucks. While the change almost triples
transport times, it cuts costs by 21 percent by eliminating a
threat found on Brazilian roads: Thieves.  Paranapanema is transporting 65 percent of its domestic
deliveries by ship this year; last year it sent nothing by sea.
The Dias D’Avila, Brazil-based company plans to move 80 percent
by water at year’s end after 15 loads were hijacked along roads
in 2012, interim Chief Executive Officer Edson Monteiro said.  “There are a lot of trucks stolen, a lot of violence -- we
invest a lot in security,” he said in an interview in  Rio de
Janeiro . “Nothing has been done in the past 10 years to improve
transportation by roads. Brazil is very weak on this issue.”  Companies like Paranapanema are braving port bottlenecks
and longer shipping times to avoid Brazil’s aging highway
network, where gangs armed with machine guns and rifles
regularly board trucks -- either by bribing drivers, using force
or even kidnapping family members -- and steal goods from copper
to food. Almost 1 billion reais ($468 million) of cargo was
stolen last year on Brazil’s roads, 37 percent more than in
2006, according to the Sao Paulo cargo transport companies’
union, known as  Setcesp .  ‘Achilles’ Heel’  “Security is Brazil’s Achilles’ heel,” said Fabio
Bechara, prosecutor and legal adviser for  Sao Paulo  state’s
security secretariat. The state accounts for more than half the
estimated 13,000 road robberies each year, Setcesp says. “This
is a profitable business for those who get the cargo,” he said.  Trucks transport about 60 percent of Brazil’s domestic
cargo and the surge in thefts is among logistical barriers
limiting revenue increases for companies and growth for the
country. To ease bottlenecks, the government is seeking private
investors to build and operate 7,500 kilometers (4,660 miles) of
new roads as part of an infrastructure investment plan totaling
$235 billion.  Security officials in Sao Paulo are stepping up monitoring
of thefts and increasing existing patrols on roads, Bechara
said. Insurance companies are helping to pay for preventative
measures such as armed vehicular and helicopter escorts and
reinforced doors akin to those found at bank vaults, said
Ricardo Cestenario, director of transportation at insurance
company Generali Brasil Seguros, a unit of Trieste, Italy-based
 Assicurazioni Generali SpA. (G)   Copper and Food  Copper is a popular commodity to rob because it is hard to
trace, he said. While copper has slumped 13 percent this year on
slowing growth in Chinese demand, the metal used in plumbing and
wiring still trades at almost triple the levels of a decade ago.
Food is the most-targeted cargo, representing 37 percent of the
total last year.  One reason hijackings have picked up is because current
laws are too lax to dissuade robberies, Cestenario said. The
penalty is one year in prison, Bechara said. Less than 20
percent of stolen cargo is ever recovered, Setcesp estimates.  “Robbing truck cargo has a much lower penalty compared
with robbing banks or dealing drugs,” Cestenario said by
telephone from Sao Paulo. “It’s much more attractive for a gang
to specialize in this segment.”  The press office for Brazil’s Federal Police didn’t reply
to an e-mail seeking comment by  Bloomberg News  yesterday.  Paranapanema  handed  investors a 146 percent return in the
past year through yesterday, the most among 192 Brazilian
companies with a market value of at least $750 million,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The shares declined 9.3
percent in 2013, compared with a 12 percent drop for the
Ibovespa Small Cap index, and  fell  5.9 percent to 4.50 reais at
the close in Sao Paulo today.  Four analysts tracked by Bloomberg  rate  the company buy,
one recommends selling and one says hold.  Longer Transport Times  For Paranapanema, shipping refined copper products from its
plant in Bahia state to a distribution center in Rio state is an
eight-day trip, including loading and unloading at ports. Even
though the 1,700-kilometer trip would take three days by truck,
the Atlantic Ocean route is cheaper, less bureaucratic and
safer, said Monteiro, who was named as interim CEO in January
after the resignation of Luiz Antonio Ferraz Jr.  The new shipping strategy is helping Paranapanema reduce
transport  costs  from 305 reais a metric ton to 242 reais, in
addition to cutting carbon-dioxide emissions by 65 percent.  Trucking costs also climbed as much as 30 percent after new
legislation was passed giving drivers longer breaks, Monteiro
said. For additional cost savings, Paranapanema is considering
moving its Rio distribution center closer to the port, he said.  “We need to look for alternatives,” Monteiro said. “We
adopt new practices, but they always figure out how to foil the
system.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net ;
Christiana Sciaudone in Sao Paulo at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  