-- Time Warner Cable Content Incentives Thwart New Web TV
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-06-12T20:46:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/time-warner-cable-content-incentives-thwart-new-web-tv.html
Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  and other
pay-TV operators are offering incentives to media companies that
agree to withhold content from Web-based entertainment services
such as those pursued by  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , people with
knowledge of the matter said.  The incentives can take the form of higher payments, or
they can include threats to drop programming, said the people,
who asked not to be identified because the discussions are
private.  Cable companies are seeking to keep customers by ensuring
access to exclusive content while fending off competition from
upstart Web providers. Time Warner Cable has more than 300
contracts, and some of them may bar media outlets from providing
content to online pay-TV services, Chief Executive Officer Glenn Britt said yesterday in a meeting with analysts at the National
Cable & Telecommunications Association show.  “We may well have ones that have that prohibition,” Britt
said at the conference in Washington. “This is not a cookie-cutter kind of business.”  Some agreements require media companies that license
content to Web-based systems to offer the same online rights to
Time Warner Cable, Britt said.  Brewing Battle  There’s a brewing battle being waged against incumbent
cable-TV companies and telecommunications providers, which
already have the rights to distribute TV and movies over their
networks.  Arrayed against them are technology companies such as
Intel, Apple and  Google Inc. (GOOG) , which are eager to cut deals that
would let them provide programming over the Web. These newcomers
have been working for years on devices, software and services
that have failed to loosen the grip of cable and satellite
distributors because they haven’t secured enough content to woo
customers.  Charter Communications Inc. (CHTR) , the fourth-largest cable
company, seeks to protect the existing pay-TV “ecosystem,”
Chief Financial Officer Chris Winfrey said at the conference
yesterday.  “It’s in everybody’s mutual interest that we are
protecting the ecosystem in a way that continues to keep the
value of that programming that we have and the way it’s
delivered to our subscribers today,” Winfrey said, declining to
comment on specific agreements.  ‘Mutual Interest’  Alex Dudley , a spokesman for Charter Communications,
headquartered in Stamford,  Connecticut , declined to say more on
Winfrey’s comments.  “Exclusivities and windows are extremely common in the
entertainment industry,”  Maureen Huff , a spokeswoman for New
York-based Time Warner Cable, said in an e-mailed statement
today. “It’s absurd to suggest that, in today’s highly
competitive video marketplace, obtaining some level of
exclusivity is anticompetitive.”  AT&T Inc. (T) , the largest U.S. phone company and the owner of
the U-Verse fiber-optic TV service, is negotiating paying less
to media companies that also provide content to Internet-based
services, Jeff Weber, president of content, said last month at
an investor conference.  ‘Anticompetitive’ Actions  “If they’re going to go over-the-top, then that’s a very
different conversation and a very different value for our
customers,” Weber said. “Exclusive versus non-exclusive has
materially different value for our customers. And I think we
would want that reflected.”  Mark Siegel , a spokesman for Dallas-based AT&T, declined to
comment beyond Weber’s remarks.  The U.S.  Justice Department  is investigating whether cable
companies are violating antitrust laws by limiting competition
from Internet video providers, people familiar with the matter
said in June 2012.  The pay-TV companies’ actions are anticompetitive, said
 Gigi Sohn , president and co-founder of  Public Knowledge , a
Washington-based consumer-rights group that focuses on
communications and technology issues.  “Is it anticompetitive generally? Of course it is, they
are keeping programming from their competitors,” Sohn said in
an interview. “Does it rise to the level of antitrust
violation? That’s something for the  Department of Justice  to
decide.”  Satellite Companies  The plight of the Internet-based services is similar to
when satellite companies couldn’t get access to media companies’
content until Congress passed legislation in 1992, Sohn said.
Government regulators may need to get involved to grant
technology companies similar access, she said.  “These sorts of practices are as old as the hills,” she
said. “Over-the-top providers are in regulatory No Man’s Land
and they can’t get access to the programming.”  The U.S. Federal Trade Commission should investigate
whether pay-TV companies’ arrangements violate antitrust laws,
 Rich Greenfield , an analyst at BTIG LLC, said in a  report 
yesterday.  “Virtual cable systems, or over-the-top providers, would
be wonderful for consumers,” Greenfield said in a phone
interview. “It appears certain pay-TV operators don’t want that
to happen.”  Time Warner Cable fell 2.2 percent to $93.90 at the close
in New York. The stock has slipped 3.4 percent this year,
compared with a 13 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index. Charter Communications fell 1 percent to $111.39, taking
its gain this year to 46 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  