-- India’s Slower Industrial Growth Adds Policy-Change Pressure
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2013-06-12T08:18:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/india-factory-output-growth-misses-estimates-as-growth-falters.html
India ’s industrial-output growth
slowed in April, adding pressure for more government steps to
spur the economy as elevated consumer-price inflation threatens
to limit the central bank’s room to extend monetary easing.  Production (INPIINDY)  at factories, utilities and mines rose 2 percent
from a year earlier after a revised 3.4 percent gain in March,
the Central Statistical Office said in New Delhi today. Another
report showed  consumer prices  climbed 9.31 percent in May from a
year earlier, exceeding the median 9 percent estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Asia’s third-largest economy expanded at the weakest pace
in a decade in the year ended March, hurt by an uneven global
recovery and moderating investment. The rupee fell to a record
low this week, a drop that may make imports costlier and stoke
price increases that have narrowed the Reserve Bank of India’s
scope for a fourth straight interest-rate cut on June 17.  “This reaffirms that demand remains weak,” said Shubhada Rao, chief economist at Yes Bank Ltd. in Mumbai. “The onus is on
the government to take quick policy actions to revive investment
and eventually create space for the Reserve Bank to cut rates.”  The rupee appreciated 0.8 percent to 57.945 per dollar as
of 1:05 p.m. in Mumbai. The currency touched an all-time low of
58.9850 per dollar yesterday. The S&P BSE India  Sensex (SENSEX)  index
fell 0.1 percent. The yield on the 7.16 percent bond maturing in
May 2023 rose to 7.33 percent from 7.30 percent yesterday.  Consumer Prices  April’s industrial-production growth fell short of the
median 2.4 percent estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 33 analysts.  Manufacturing rose 2.8 percent from a year earlier, while
 capital-goods output  increased 1 percent, the statement showed.
Mining fell 3 percent. Electricity output increased 0.7 percent.  Consumer-price inflation in India is the fastest in the
Group of 20 major economies after Argentina, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao will keep the repurchase rate at
7.25 percent next week, 11 of 19 analysts said in a Bloomberg
survey. The rest called for a cut to 7 percent. Subbarao reduced
borrowing costs 25 basis points in January, March and May each.  The rupee has been weighed down by India’s record current-account deficit and speculation the dollar will gain if the U.S.
scales back monetary stimulus.  Gold and oil imports contributed to the $32.6 billion
shortfall in the current account for the last quarter of 2012.  The government has raised taxes on imports of the metal to
pare the gap, part of wider policy changes since September to
prop up the economy and avert a credit-rating downgrade.  The push has foundered in recent weeks as protests over
alleged graft in government disrupted parliament, impeding bills
seeking to woo foreign investment, simplify taxes and provide
more land for industry.  India’s  gross domestic product  rose 5 percent last fiscal
year, the slowest pace since 2003. Domestic sales in India’s
passenger-car industry, which includes manufacturers such as
Maruti Suzuki India Ltd., fell 12.3 percent in May from a year
earlier, in a sign consumer spending is still faltering.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  