-- Inditex Gains as Zara Owner Signals End to Profit Slowdown
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2013-06-12T12:12:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/inditex-first-quarter-profit-misses-estimates-amid-cold-weather.html
Inditex SA (ITX)  rose the most in almost
two months in  Madrid  trading after the world’s biggest clothing
retailer signalled an end to slowing profit growth.  Store revenue rose at a faster pace in the first five weeks
of the second quarter at constant exchange rates than total
sales did in the opening three months of the financial year,
Arteixo, Spain-based Inditex said today, after reporting the
weakest quarterly profit growth in four years.  Profit margins ,
which narrowed in the first quarter, should stabilize for the
rest of the year, the Zara owner said.  The  stock  rose as much as 4.9 percent on optimism that the
retailer will continue reporting higher profit as it deals with
challenges including a 27 percent  unemployment rate  in  Spain .
Net income rose 1.6 percent in the first quarter, the weakest
growth since the first quarter of fiscal 2010, as cold weather
in  Europe  delayed sales of spring fashions and Spain imposed the
toughest austerity measures in its democratic history.  The earnings “show the company is able to keep growing
during challenging economic times,” said Daniel Lacalle, a
senior  fund manager  at Ecofin Ltd. in  London . “It’s managed to
post profit growth and solid margins, which is remarkable.”  Inditex traded up 4.2 percent at 101.95 euros as of 2:10
p.m. in Madrid, reversing an earlier decline.  “It’s very surprising to see today’s stock reaction,”
Ivan San Felix, an analyst at  Renta 4 Banco SA (R4)  in Madrid, said
by telephone. “Inditex managed to report solid quarterly
earnings even if it only opened a few stores, so investors may
think that sales growth could accelerate in coming quarters as
the company speeds up openings.”  Stable Margins  The retailer said store sales rose 8 percent at constant
exchange rates from May 1 to June 7, the first weeks of the
second quarter. Group revenue increased 5.2 percent to 3.59
billion euros ($4.76 billion) in the first quarter.  The gross margin, a measure of profitability, should remain
“stable” the rest of the year, Chief Executive Officer Pablo Isla said, after it shrank 0.6 percentage points to 59.6 percent
in the first quarter.  Analysts estimate Inditex’s profit will rise 12 percent
this fiscal year, beating forecasts for 4 percent growth in
 Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB) ’s net income and 11 percent for Gap Inc.,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Inditex, which added stores in 30 markets during the first
quarter, said openings for the year are in line with its plans.
 Russia , Japan and  China  gained the highest number of new
outlets. Total store numbers reached 6,058 in 86 countries.  ‘Tough Quarter’  Inditex said it plans to start online sales in Russia at
the beginning of the fall-winter season. Online sales are
growing in all markets where they are offered, including “very
significant” growth in the U.S. and a “satisfactory”
performance in China, Isla said.  First-quarter net income rose to 438 million euros from 432
million euros in the same period a year earlier.  Sales growth in the period was affected by the retailer’s
decision to absorb an increase in value-added tax in Spain, as
well as the timing of Easter, Ecofin’s Lacalle said.  “This was definitely a tough quarter, and the rest of the
year, especially the next two quarters, is going to remain very
difficult,”  Anne Critchlow , a London-based analyst at  Societe
Generale , said by phone.  Inditex faced headwinds besides weather including the
strength of the euro against other currencies and one fewer
trading day after the leap year in 2012, wrote Richard Chamberlain, an analyst at Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  H&M said today sales in the three months through May fell 4
percent on a basis that includes revenue from stores, Internet
and catalog activities in operation for at least a year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  