-- India’s Nifty Futures Drop Signals Shares May Extend 7-Week Low
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2013-06-12T02:04:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/india-s-nifty-futures-drop-signals-shares-may-extend-7-week-low.html
Indian (SENSEX)  stock-index futures dropped,
signaling benchmark indexes may extend yesterday’s slump to a
seven-week low.  SGX CNX Nifty Index futures  for June delivery fell 0.6
percent to 5,757.5 at 9:54 a.m. in  Singapore . The underlying CNX
 Nifty (NIFTY)  Index dropped 1.5 percent to 5,788.80 yesterday, the
lowest close since April 18. The S&P BSE Sensex tumbled 1.5
percent. The Bank of  New York  Mellon  India  ADR Index of U.S.-
traded shares fell 2.8 percent to the lowest since Nov. 21.  The nation’s stocks plunged yesterday amid concern the
rupee’s decline to a record low will limit the central bank’s
scope to cut  interest rates  at a policy review next week. The
government releases industrial production data for April and
consumer price inflation figures for May today.  “We didn’t expect the rupee to weaken as it has over the
last few weeks,” Robert Aspin, a Singapore-based investment
strategist with Standard Chartered Bank, said in an interview
with Bloomberg TV India yesterday. A weak currency will stoke
price pressures, impacting “the ability of the  Reserve Bank  of
India to cut rates. We were looking for a 25 basis-point cut.”  Data due today may show consumer prices increased 9 percent
in May, according to a Bloomberg survey of 22 economists. The
 rate  hasn’t slowed to less than 9 percent since February 2012.
Factory  output  climbed 2.4 percent in April, compared with 2.5
percent the previous month, according to the median estimate of
32 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Rupee Slump  The rupee weakened to a record low of 58.9850 per dollar
yesterday, before paring losses after the government said it’s
considering an overseas bond sale to spur inflows and on
speculation the RBI sold dollars. The currency has been weighed
down by a record current-account gap, the slowest economic
growth in a decade and speculation the dollar will gain if the
U.S. reduces monetary stimulus.  The central bank, which has cut the benchmark repurchase
rate three times this year, will keep it at 7.25 percent on June
17, according to 11 of 19 analysts in a Bloomberg survey. The
rest forecast a 25 basis-point reduction.  The Sensex climbed to the highest level in more than two
years on May 17 as stimulus measures from central banks in the
U.S. to  Europe  and  Japan  lured inflows into  emerging markets .
The gauge has slumped 5.6 percent since then on concern those
measures may be pared back. The index has lost 1.5 percent this
year.  Still, overseas investors bought $36 million of local
stocks on June 10, according to data from the market regulator.
That extended this year’s inflows to $15.4 billion, a record for
the period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Sensex is valued at 13.6 times  projected 12-month
profits , the least in a month, compared with the MSCI Emerging
Markets Index’s 9.8 times. The gauge’s 50-day  volatility , a
measure of price swings climbed to 16.8 yesterday, the highest
in 13 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  