-- Indonesia Plan for Higher Coal Royalties to Hurt Low Rank Miners
-- B y   N e i l   C h a t t e r j e e
-- 2013-06-12T08:30:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/indonesia-plan-for-higher-coal-royalties-to-hurt-low-rank-miners.html
Indonesia , the world’s biggest
exporter of thermal coal, proposed doubling royalties for some
miners next year, threatening margins at companies that produce
about 20 percent of the nation’s supplies.  The plan to raise charges to between 10 percent and 13
percent will apply to coal producers with permits issued by
local authorities known as Ijin Usaha Pertambangan licenses, or
IUPs, Susilo Siswoutomo, the deputy energy minister, told
reporters yesterday. The proposal was first made last year.  Indonesia wants to raise revenue from mining after a slide
in commodity prices led to a near-record trade deficit in April.
The country’s biggest producers such as  PT Bumi Resources (BUMI)  and  PT
Adaro Energy (ADRO) , which hold longer-term licenses signed with the
central government, already pay a 13.5 percent royalty and
higher taxes than IUP holders.  “The idea by government is to make equal treatment for
miners,” Supriatna Suhala, the executive director of the
Indonesian Coal Mining Association, said by phone today. “The
problem is it is not the right time.”  Asia ’s benchmark coal prices have fallen by more than half
since a peak in mid-2008 amid slowing Chinese imports and rising
output. Thermal coal at the Australian  port  of Newcastle was at
$86.40 a metric ton as of June 7, according to data from IHS
McCloskey. Prices are 4.7 percent lower this year after losing
19 percent in 2012. They were as high as $192.50 in July 2008.  “Right now it’s break even or low margins, so very
difficult for smaller players,” Suhala said, adding this could
hurt production. “Some may simply stop.”  Indonesia coal swaps for July were at $62.65 a ton
yesterday, according to Ginga Petroleum Singapore Pte.  Chinese Ban  A proposed Chinese ban on imports of lower-quality coal
also threatens lower-rank Indonesian miners, affecting as much
as 10 percent of output, according to the coal mining
association. The country produces cheaper grades that have lower
calorific value than  Australia , the world’s second-largest
exporter.  Indonesia may supply about 390 million tons of coal this
year, compared with a forecast of 400 million made in February,
 Bob Kamandanu , the chairman of the association, said last month.  IUP holders, which include  PT Tambang Batubara Bukit Asam (PTBA) ,
typically pay royalties of between 5 percent and 7 percent,
depending on the quality of the coal. Shares in state-owned
Bukit Asam, which is targeting 23 million tons of coal sales
this year, or almost 6 percent of Indonesia’s total output, fell
as much as 3.4 percent today.  Budget Deficit  “If we assume a 10 percent royalty, with a recent royalty
of 6 percent paid by Bukit Asam, it will experience more than a
50 percent increase in royalty expense,” Gifar Indra Sakti, an
equity analyst at PT Sucorinvest Central Gani in Jakarta, said
in an e-mail today. “It adds bad sentiment to the Indonesia
coal industry.”  Producers of higher-value coal may be better able to absorb
the extra royalty costs, Suhala said. He said IUP license
holders account for as much as 90 million tons of annual coal
output.  The Indonesian government plans to lift revenues from
mining to 33.1 trillion rupiah ($3.3 billion) this year in a
revised draft budget, up from earlier plans for 32.6 trillion
rupiah, Siswoutomo said in a meeting with parliament yesterday.  Indonesia’s trade deficit was $1.6 billion in April,
compared with a revised $138 million surplus in March, according
to the Statistics Department in Jakarta .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Chatterjee in Singapore at 
 nchatterjee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  