-- Indonesia Rupiah Under Pressure Before Fuel Plan Enacted
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2013-06-13T07:51:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/indonesia-s-delayed-fuel-decision-haunts-rupiah-southeast-asia.html
Indonesia ’s government needs to rein
in fuel subsidies that have spurred a current-account deficit to
support efforts by the central bank to stabilize the weakening
rupiah, economists say.  Rupiah forwards rose the most in a year yesterday after
 Bank Indonesia  increased the rate it pays lenders on overnight
deposits and said it was ready to buy government debt in the
secondary market to maintain monetary stability. Still, the spot
rate weakened 0.3 percent to 9,860 a dollar, the most since May
16, according to prices from local banks compiled by Bloomberg.
The spot rate fell a further 0.2 percent today.  “The rupiah remains weak as investors are still waiting
for the fuel price increase and demand for dollars remains
high,” Eric Alexander Sugandi, a Jakarta-based economist at
Standard Chartered Plc, said yesterday. “As long as the
government delays the fuel price increase, the rupiah will
remain under pressure.”  President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  has put off raising fuel
prices since protests derailed a planned increase last year in a
country where riots spurred by soaring living costs helped oust
dictator Suharto in 1998. Curbing the government’s energy
subsidies would reduce trade and current-account deficits that
made the rupiah the worst performer in  Asia  after the Japanese
yen among 11 most-traded currencies tracked by Bloomberg over
the past year.  “Indonesia will increase fuel prices within days after the
budget approval on June 17,” Deputy Finance Minister Mahendra Siregar said via telephone today.  Maintaining Stability  Bank Indonesia Governor Agus Martowardojo moved to boost
confidence in the rupiah weeks after taking charge, unexpectedly
raising the  deposit facility rate , also known as the Fasbi, by a
quarter of a percentage point to 4.25 percent effective
yesterday. The increase was a preemptive step to maintain
stability after the rupiah weakened and Bank Indonesia will
ensure sufficient liquidity in the market, it said.  “Indonesia can’t depend only on Bank Indonesia’s policy,”
said  Anton Gunawan , chief economist at PT Bank Danamon. “The
government needs to take immediate action to raise fuel prices
as it will boost sentiment. As long as uncertainty about fuel
costs persists, we’ll see continued volatility in the market.”  Indonesian policy makers have struggled to contain the
rupiah’s plunge, with the country’s  currency reserves  dropping
as the central bank sold dollars. The increase in the Fasbi rate
was enacted only a day before today’s monetary policy meeting,
where the benchmark  reference rate  was unexpectedly raised to 6
percent from a record-low 5.75 percent. All 19 economists
 surveyed  by  Bloomberg News  had predicted no change in the
 reference rate .  ‘Calming Influence’  The Fasbi rate “move came a little more than a day before
its scheduled policy meeting, hinting at a degree of panic,”
 Robert Prior-Wandesforde , an economist at Credit Suisse Group AG
in  Singapore , said in a note yesterday. “It looks to have had a
calming influence for now, although we are not convinced it will
be long lasting and continue to expect at least another couple
of Fasbi rate increases later this year and one 25 basis-point
policy rate increase.”  The rupiah’s one-month non-deliverable forwards gained 1.6
percent, the most since June 2012, to 10,120 per dollar
yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The contracts
touched 10,412 on June 11, the weakest level since August 2009.
Today, the rupiah spot rate had weakened as much as 0.7 percent
to 9,925 per dollar before the rate increase, and later pared
losses to trade at 9,880.  Cash Outflows  Overseas investors have pulled $1.9 billion from stocks and
 local-currency bonds  in Indonesia the past two weeks, putting
pressure on the rupiah as rising U.S. Treasury yields lure
capital from  emerging markets .  The  Jakarta Composite Index (JCI)  erased earlier declines
yesterday to rise for the first time in five days, with the
benchmark jumping 1.9 percent, the biggest gain in almost nine
months. Prior to yesterday’s gain, the index had lost almost a
10th of its value this month. Today, the gauge had lost as much
as 2.8 percent, falling along with Asian equity markets, and
pared losses to 1.2 percent as of 2:51 p.m. local time after the
rate increase.  The rupiah’s weakness is temporary, Finance Minister Chatib Basri told reporters yesterday. Bank Indonesia will ensure the
currency level reflects fundamentals, Martowardojo said.  Bank Indonesia is ready to supply dollars in a “large
quantity” to stabilize the currency, as well as buy  government
bonds  in the secondary market sold by overseas investors, Deputy
Governor Perry Warjiyo said in a text message yesterday. The
central bank is prepared to purchase government debt in any
amount, he said.  Falling Reserves  Indonesia is consuming foreign-currency reserves at the
fastest pace in Asia as policy makers struggle to contain the
rupiah’s plunge. Reserves dropped 5.7 percent in a year to $105
billion in May as the central bank sold dollars to bolster the
rupiah, while authorities from  South Korea  to  Taiwan  added to
coffers, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Standard & Poor’s  cut its rating outlook on Indonesia’s
debt to stable from positive last month, saying a stalling of
reform momentum and a weaker external profile had reduced the
chance of an upgrade over the next 12 months. Failure to lower
subsidies in 2012 led to a record current-account gap, hurting
the rupiah as foreign investors lost confidence.  Consumer prices  are forecast by economists to accelerate as
Yudhoyono’s administration plans to raise fuel prices to contain
expenditure on subsidies. Yudhoyono has made any boost in fuel
prices conditional on Parliament approving compensation programs
for the poor. Inflation may peak at about 8 percent within three
months of a price increase, Chua Hak Bin of Bank of America
Corp. estimated.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net ;
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  