-- Inflation at 53-Year Low Belies U.S. Demand Vigor
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2013-06-12T19:56:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/inflation-at-53-year-low-belies-u-s-demand-strength-economy.html
Some Federal Reserve policy makers
are citing the lowest inflation rate in at least five decades as
an alarm bell for the economy. Economists at UBS Securities
LLC say the figure isn’t as troubling as it appears.  Consumer prices climbed 1.1 percent in the 12 months
through April, according to a measure watched by the Fed that
excludes food and fuel -- matching the smallest increase since
records began in 1960. That’s down from 1.9 percent in the year
ended April 2012.  Most of the decline is in industries such as apparel and
health care, where consumer demand is growing, said Sam Coffin,
an economist at UBS Securities. Among the reasons for slowing
inflation are improved efficiency and a stronger dollar, which
puts downward pressure on prices of imported goods such as cars
and clothing.  “If anything, the price softening is helping to support
demand,” and the dollar is set to rise further, said Coffin,
who is based in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “Households are getting
a little bit more purchasing power out of their income growth.”  Fed officials meeting June 18-19 in  Washington  will weigh
how much changes in inflation and the labor market will
influence the pace of their $85 billion in monthly asset
purchases.  James Bullard , president of the St. Louis Fed, this
week said inflation below the central bank’s 2 percent target
may warrant prolonging bond buying.  “Slowing inflation has twice spurred Fed fears that
deflationary psychology could damage the recovery as consumers
postponed purchases,” Coffin wrote in a June 3 research note.  QE1, QE2  Policy makers expanded their first round of quantitative
easing in March 2009 by announcing they would buy Treasuries in
addition to mortgage-backed securities and debt of government-sponsored enterprises as the inflation measure cooled to 1.4
percent on its way to reaching 1.2 percent that July.  In November 2010, the  Federal Open Market Committee 
announced a second round of Treasury security purchases, or QE2,
totaling $600 billion as price increases again slowed.  Yields on  Treasury securities  and  mortgage rates  have
surged as gains in employment prompt speculation the Fed will
soon reduce asset purchases. At the same time, declining
inflation gives the Fed room to maintain record economic
stimulus as policy makers led by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  seek
to lower a jobless rate of 7.6 percent.  Elsewhere today, data showed the economy in the U.K. is
gathering momentum as jobless claims fell in May and the
 unemployment rate  dropped in the three months through April.  Bullard’s Concern  Bullard has expressed concern since 2010 that disinflation
is indicating a lack of demand that will trigger a cycle of
falling prices and spending declines like the one that has
afflicted  Japan  for 15 years.  The situation in the U.S. is less dire, according to
Coffin, whose research shows that four industries -- financial
services, clothing, medical care and automobiles -- accounted
for about 75 percent of the deceleration in  core inflation .  His calculations show goods and services from the health-care industry account for 0.18 percentage point of the slowdown
in prices in the year ended April.  Changes in response to the 2010 health-care overhaul may be
helping lower costs as hospitals improve efficiency and reduce
readmissions, while expanded use of cheaper generic drugs may
also be holding down prices, Coffin said.  Financial services and insurance accounted for another 0.17
percentage point of the deceleration in core prices. Some of
these costs can’t be measured directly, for example free
checking accounts, so the government estimates their value.  Non-Discretionary  Both health care and financial services represent non-discretionary expenditures, meaning consumers don’t have the
ability to delay purchases. “Price disinflation or even
deflation for these services is unlikely to dampen real  consumer
spending ,” said Coffin.  Autos accounted for another 0.08 percentage point of the
slowdown and clothing made up the remaining 0.2 percentage
point. Here, a rising dollar may be playing a role, according to
UBS research.  With automakers posting their best sales in more than five
years, deceleration in the motor vehicles and parts category of
the personal consumption expenditure, or PCE,  price index  is
reflective of dollar strength that’s held down import prices, as
well as domestic producers competing for market share as orders
pick up, the UBS report showed.  Cars and light trucks  sold  at a 15.2 million annualized
rate in May, making it the sixth month out of the last seven to
exceed the 15-million mark -- a level that previously hadn’t
been breached since February 2008.  Rising Dollar  Apparel prices have been held back by dollar appreciation
and “exaggerated” monthly swings that don’t match other retail
sales figures, he said.  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against currencies of six U.S. trading
partners,  increased  1.7 percent from the start of the year
through June 11 to 81.11. The gauge rose to 84.35 at its May 22
close, the highest level since July 2010.  New York  Fed President William C. Dudley is among officials
looking beyond the slowdown in prices. He said in April that
while “underlying measures of inflation are subdued,”
expectations for future price increases remained “well
anchored,” which eases concern the slowing will continue.  Jeffrey Lacker , president of the Richmond Fed, told
reporters in Baltimore the day before that a slowing in
inflation is temporary and prices will probably rise at about a
2 percent annual rate.  Inflation Expectations  The gap in yields between Treasury Inflation-Protected
Securities, or TIPS, and  U.S. government debt  not indexed for
inflation, known as the  break-even rate , shows investor
expectations for the  consumer price index  over the next 10 years
were at 2.09 percentage points on June 11. They have held above
the Fed’s 2 percent goal since the start of 2012.  The steady expectations give the Fed room to maneuver even
as actual inflation ebbs, said  Harm Bandholz , chief U.S.
economist at UniCredit Group in New York.  “If inflation expectations would have reacted to these
very low core PCE numbers, we would see more people talking
about increasing” the Fed’s quantitative easing, Bandholz said.
With expectations remaining relatively stable, Fed officials are
“discounting a little bit the very low core PCE reading.”  Slowdown Transitory  The Fed officials have said “this slowdown in inflation is
probably transitory, which would imply that it really wouldn’t
factor into their decision,” even as Bullard may have an
alternate view, said Richard Moody, chief economist at Regions
Financial Corp. in Birmingham,  Alabama , who expects the Fed to
begin tapering at their September meeting.  Inflation data set for release within the next week could
intensify the debate on pricing trends.  Import prices  were
little changed in May, economists project ahead of data tomorrow
from the Labor Department, while a report released the following
day may show wholesale prices rose 0.1 percent last month after
two straight declines.  Data for the consumer price index -- due next week -- is
projected to show a pickup, although the core year-over-year
gauge probably held at a two-year low of 1.7 percent, according
to early estimates.  UBS economists led by  Maury Harris  continue to forecast Fed
policy makers will not begin to reduce bond purchases until
early 2014 as concerns over the slowdown in price gains and the
weakening in growth caused by the federal across-the-board
spending cuts under sequestration hold sway.  Nonetheless, they said that investors will anticipate an
earlier scaling back of the Fed’s program. To that end, last
week UBS raised its forecast of the year-end yield for the
benchmark 10-year note to 2.20 percent from a prior estimate of
2 percent. The note’s yield was 2.19 percent late yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  