-- Lira Rallies 2nd Day as Central Bank Stands Against Volatility
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2013-06-12T10:52:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/lira-rallies-2nd-day-as-central-bank-stands-against-volatility.html
The lira advanced for a second day
as central bank Governor Erdem Basci said he’d intervene to tame
currency volatility and as calm returned to Istanbul this
morning after a night of violence. Bond yields fell.  The Turkish currency gained 0.9 percent to 1.8743 per
dollar at 1:20 p.m. in Istanbul, trimming its loss this month to
less than 0.1 percent. Yields on two-year benchmark bonds fell
two basis points to 6.80 percent, declining from the highest
level since Nov. 7 yesterday.  Turkey ’s central bank is obligated to intervene in extreme
currency volatility, Basci said at a conference in Giresun
province today. The bank’s real effective exchange rate, or
REER, an inflation-adjusted gauge of the currency against
Turkey’s trading partners, is “well below” the bank’s 120
threshold in June, Basci said. A reading above 120 indicates the
lira is overvalued, according to the bank. The attractiveness of
Turkish lira and bonds may rise next week, Basci said.  “Basci displayed a determined stance,” Ercan Erguzel, an
economist at  Denizbank AS (DENIZ)  in Istanbul, wrote in e-mailed
comments today. “It’s important that he declares that the
central bank will intervene at times of excess volatility.”  The lira’s historic volatility on a three-month basis rose
to its highest since Oct. 11 today. The central bank sold $250
million in five auctions yesterday, after the lira reached its
weakest level since December 2011 a day earlier. The central
bank also tightened funding by halting its one-week repo
auctions yesterday for the first time since June 4, 2012. The
bank resumed the auctions today, offering 4 billion liras to
lenders and getting 20.7 billion liras in bids.  Crisis Talks  “Foreign investors are taking a wait-and-see attitude,”
 Marc Chandler , chief currency strategist at Brown Brothers
Harriman & Co. in  New York , said in e-mailed comments. “The
lira is benefiting not only from the intervention but also from
the general stabilization of the  capital markets .”  The currency’s support is seen near 1.86 per dollar and
will be capped at 1.90, Chandler said.  The Borsa Istanbul main index of stocks climbed 2.1 percent
to 76,630.88 today, after police drove protesters out of Taksim
Square using tear gas and water cannons. The demonstrations,
which spread nationwide after May 31 when the police attacked a
group of protesters occupying a park to prevent redevelopment,
are the biggest in more than 10 years under Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan . The unrest sent Turkish stocks plunging 11
percent this month.  Kemal Kilicdaroglu, leader of Turkey’s main opposition
 Republican People’s Party , today urged President  Abdullah Gul  to
convene a meeting of party leaders to discuss the crisis. Gul
said he saw no benefit to such a meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  