-- Miracle-Gro’s Potty-Mouthed CEO Should Have Known Better
-- B y   S e a n   V a n a t t a
-- 2013-06-12T19:26:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/miracle-gro-s-potty-mouthed-ceo-should-have-known-better.html
Profane language can be a useful
tool for ambitious executives, enabling them to express the
power of their convictions and the seriousness of their cause.  It can also backfire, as the chief executive officer of
Scotts Miracle-Gro Co., Jim Hagedorn, found out last week.
Hagedorn was reprimanded for his use of inappropriate language;
three other board members of the lawn-care company resigned
because of the controversy. While it is unclear what remarks led
to the reprimand and resignations, Hagedorn had a habit of
employing colorful language when speaking with reporters,
shareholders and the public.  The boundaries of acceptable public and workplace discourse
have long been contested. While many executives, such as
Hagedorn, have had a penchant for salty language, public
profanity has only recently found uneasy acceptance in business
culture. Executives who try to motivate employees and other
corporate stakeholders with tough talk sometimes enjoy
significant success, but they also risk immediate legal
liability and the future judgment of history.  It isn’t hard to look back on the Gilded Age and find
examples of rapacious and mean-mouthed executives. Yet, in an
age when profanity wasn’t fit for print, the content of their
statements was often more offensive than how they said it.  Strike Suppression  During the Great Southwest Strike of 1886, for instance,
the railroad financier  Jay Gould  famously bragged, “I can hire
one half of the working class to kill the other half.” Gould may
have been correct -- he successfully employed armed toughs and
the Texas state militia to put down the strike -- but such
sentiment hasn’t improved his reputation for posterity.  The robber barons probably used plenty of explicit language
in private, but through the early part of the 20th century,
profanity had no place in public discourse.  When dirty words cropped into public view, the guardians of
morality stepped in. Responding to the use of rough language
during World War II,  Norman Vincent Peale , a minister (and
author of “The Power of Positive Thinking”), lamented to the  New
York  Times, “The public men of other years may have cussed
plenty in private, but they had the good taste to keep it out of
public address.”  Public expletives have become more common, and executives
have moved to leverage, or perhaps weaponize, foul language to
their benefit.  In the 1980s and ’90s, especially, a new breed of tough-talking executives rose to prominence. For turnaround artists
and corporate raiders who found value in companies by stripping
down the workforces, streamlining operations and selling
unprofitable divisions, ruthless bravado and acerbic language
were often their stock-in-trade.  Albert J. Dunlap, or “Chainsaw Al” as he was
unaffectionately known, epitomized this aggressive style. A West
Point graduate, Dunlap headed Scott Paper Co., beginning in
1994, and eliminated more than 10,000 jobs, or 35 percent of the
workforce. “They call me abrasive, but I’m really just a
catalyst,” he told the New York Times.  The title of Dunlap’s memoir, “Mean Business,” coveys the
tone he set. In 1996, in his first meeting as chairman of
Sunbeam Corp., “he just yelled, ranted, and raved. He was
condescending, belligerent, and disrespectful,” according to a
Sunbeam executive, Richard Boynton, who is quoted in John
Byrne’s “Chainsaw: The Notorious Career of Al Dunlap in the Era
of Profit-at-Any-Price.”  ‘Chainsaw Al’  It wasn’t his abrasiveness or profanity that brought  Dunlap 
down, however. Instead, it was the questionable accounting that
misrepresented Sunbeam’s revenue. According to BusinessWeek, at
what would be his last investors meeting at the company, Dunlap
accosted a critic and said: “You son of a b----. If you want to
come after me, I’ll come after you twice as hard.”  In 2002, as part of an agreement with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, Dunlap agreed to never again serve as an
executive of a public company.  This isn’t to suggest that Dunlap was unique in his
profanity; innumerable memoirs and accounts of business culture
recount expletive-laden rants by managers, executives and
employees.  Still, while public profanity seems to have become more
common among executives, countervailing trends have worked to
check its spread.  Most broadly, the civil-rights revolution of the 1960s and
’70s marked racial and gender slurs as beyond the bounds of
acceptable business discourse. Harassment and discrimination
lawsuits stemming from inappropriate speech made slips of the
tongue expensive errors.  In 1999,  David Howard , a top aide to District of Columbia
Mayor Anthony Williams, was forced to resign after using the
word “niggardly” to describe the city’s tight budget. By using a
synonym for miserly that sounds similar to a racial slur,
Howard’s remarks offended another member of the mayor’s staff
and sparked a major national debate.  It seems unlikely that Scotts Miracle-Gro’s  reprimand  of
Hagedorn will generate a similar outcry, but it may remind
executives to mind their p’s and q’s.  ( Sean Vanatta  is a graduate student at  Princeton
University .)  Read more from  Echoes  online.  To contact the writer of this post:
Sean Vanatta at  svanatta@princeton.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  