-- Iran’s Crude Exports Rise as China Port Blockages Ease, IEA Says
-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k   a n d   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2013-06-12T10:43:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/iran-s-crude-exports-rise-as-china-port-blockages-ease-iea-says.html
Iran  exported 66 percent more crude
oil in May than in April, helped by an increase in purchases by
 China  after congestion eased at the Asian nation’s ports, the
 International Energy Agency  said.  Imports of Iranian crude reported by consumers rose to the
“relatively high” level of 1.39 million barrels a day from
835,000 barrels a day in April, the IEA said in its monthly oil
report today. China imported 715,000 barrels a day of Iranian
crude last month, almost double the 370,000 barrels it received
in April when port congestion delayed deliveries and pushed off
cargoes until May, the Paris-based agency said. China accounted
for 51 percent of Iran’s exports in May, according to a
Bloomberg News calculation based on IEA numbers for the month.  The U.S. and its allies are restricting Iran’s oil exports,
the country’s largest revenue source, and targeting its
financial industry to pressure the Islamic republic to stop
enriching uranium. The curbs have cut Iran’s oil exports by more
than half to an average of about 1 million barrels a day in the
first five months of the year, according to the IEA.  The U.S. last week renewed 180-day waivers from sanctions
for nine countries, including China,  India  and  South Korea . The
 U.S. Congress  may tighten measures against Iran and is
discussing ways of making it tougher for buyers of Iranian crude
to receive waivers, the IEA said. Such measures might specify
more clearly how much oil from Iran buyers must forego to avoid
penalties, the agency said. That would replace current “vague”
definitions that buyers must show they “‘significantly
reduced” purchases,” the IEA said.  Iranian crude output rose by 30,000 barrels a day in May to
2.68 million barrels a day, the IEA said. The country was
holding about 30 million barrels of oil in floating storage at
the end of last month, a level unchanged from April, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  