-- Israel’s Fischer Sees Yield Surge Easing Currency War
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2013-06-13T11:07:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/israel-s-fischer-sees-rout-easing-currency-wars-concern.html
The temptation for central banks to
engage in competitive devaluation is fading as rising Treasury
yields diminish the allure of assets in  emerging markets , Bank
of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer  said.  “All those who’ve been worrying about so-called currency
wars should be feeling better,” Fischer told reporters in
 London  late yesterday. “I am happy to see these rises in
Treasury yields because we’ve been dealing with capital inflows
which are not particularly wanted.”  The Bank of Israel last month cut  interest rates  twice by a
cumulative 0.5 percentage point to 1.25 percent in a bid to
moderate the strengthening of the shekel, and also announced the
purchase of $2.1 billion in foreign currency by the year’s end.
The shekel has jumped 7 percent in the past year, the most among
13 Middle Eastern currencies tracked by Bloomberg. It traded at
3.6103 to the dollar at 1:45 p.m. in  Tel Aviv .  Brazil ’s Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  coined the term
“currency war” in 2010, saying his country was the victim of
rich nations that were using monetary policy to devalue their
currencies and fuel exports. Rate reductions by the  European
Central Bank  and  Bank of Japan  as well as Israel’s natural gas
finds had strengthened the shekel to the point where it didn’t
reflect economic fundamentals, Barry Topf, a senior adviser to
Fischer, said in an interview May 29.  Foreign Inflows  “If you have a current account which is fundamentally in
balance, which ours is, then when our rates are significantly
above foreign rates, we have to deal with foreign inflows,”
Fischer said yesterday.  The steps taken by the central bank last month have helped
bring the currency to “a new, more stable level,” though it is
“not quite” at the level which the bank considers to be at
equilibrium, Fischer said today in a Bloomberg Television
interview.  “There is still somewhat of an appreciation of the shekel
relative to where we’d expected it to be over the longer term,”
Fischer said in London. “But we at least see at the moment that
it is fluctuating and not moving only in one direction.”  Stepping Down  As speculation the  Federal Reserve  may pare its bond-buying
program known as quantitative easing mounts,  yields  on 10-year
Treasury bonds reached 2.29 percent on June 11, the highest
since April 2012 and up from a record 1.38 percent in July.
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Emerging Markets Currency Index has
 fallen  4 percent in the past month as investors pull money out
of developing nation bond funds.  In May 2010 Israel was reclassified as a developed market
from emerging market by  MSCI Inc. (MSCI)   Fischer, 69, announced in January he would step down at the
end of June, midway through his second, five-year term. A former
No. 2 at the  International Monetary Fund , Fischer said he was
leaving for personal reasons, mostly because his family is in
the U.S. and he has achieved many of the goals he wanted to
accomplish.  Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  hasn’t announced yet who
will replace Fischer, and the central banker hasn’t said yet
what his next job will be. He said yesterday that he has “no
reason to think that’s a realistic question” when asked if he
would like to be the next Fed chief.  “There is one mistake you must never make -- do not accept
an offer that hasn’t been made to you,” Fischer said. In his
interview today Fischer said he wasn’t planning to retire,
though didn’t elaborate.  Slowing Growth  Fischer has been credited with helping Israel weather the
global economic crisis better than most developed countries.
Between 2005, when Fischer took office, and last year, the
economy grew at an annual average of 4.3 percent, and per-capita
growth averaged 2.5 percent, the governor said at a
parliamentary finance committee meeting on June 3.  He is departing as  Israel ’s central bank contends with
slowing growth, the strengthening shekel and sluggish global
demand on the one hand, and surging housing prices on the other.  Fischer earned a reputation as a trailblazer as the first
central banker to cut rates in 2008 at the start of the global
economic crisis, and the first to raise rates the following year
in response to signs of financial recovery. He also bought up
foreign currency in unprecedented amounts to drive down the
value of the shekel and boost exports, more than doubling
reserves.  “I am leaving my position thinking that that outlook is
optimistic,” Fischer said last night. “Israel is very
successful in figuring how to solve difficult problems.”  Central Bank Changes  During his eight years in charge of the central bank,
Fischer introduced a raft of changes, chief among them the
shifting of responsibility for the monthly interest-rate
decision from the governor alone to a six-member Monetary
Committee, including three outside academics.  The Fischer-led  Bank of Israel  has surprised economists in
about a quarter of its rate decisions, more often than any other
OECD country for which comparable data is tracked by Bloomberg.
Since October 2011, when the monetary committee began to
operate, Fischer has only used his tie-breaking vote once, and
that was in last month’s unscheduled rate cut.  Fischer, who during his two decades as a  Massachusetts
Institute of Technology  professor helped to educate the current
heads of the Fed and the ECB, has steered toward the U.S. model
during his tenure at the Israeli central bank. His dual focus on
employment and growth alongside  price stability  resembles the
Fed’s and has marked a shift at the Bank of Israel, where
previous governors placed an ECB-style emphasis on inflation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  