-- Italian Banks Should Revamp Securities Units, AlixPartners Says
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2013-06-12T13:50:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/italian-banks-should-revamp-securities-units-alixpartners-says.html
Italian lenders should revamp their
 investment banking  units to create a larger business able to
compete on a European scale, according to AlixPartners LLP, a
business consulting and financial advisory firm.  A national champion would also be able to expand in higher-growth regions such as  Latin America  and  Africa , AlixPartners
said in a report. Creating a bigger, stand-alone securities firm
by combining units, for example, may become a necessity if
regulators move to separate investment banking from retail
deposit-taking, according to New York-based AlixPartners.  Regulators’ demands for greater capital to create buffers
for potential losses and contracting economies are weighing on
European banks’ ability to compete against Wall Street firms. At
the same time, the European Union is considering forcing lenders
to split their commercial business from their riskier
activities.  Italy’s largest securities businesses --  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,
 Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) ’s Banca IMI and  Mediobanca SpA (MB)  -- aren’t
among the top 10 stock sale underwriters in  Europe  this year and
rank no higher than 31st among merger advisers on deals
involving companies in the region, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Souring Loans  “Italy doesn’t have an investment bank that is capable of
accompanying companies internationally,” Claudio Scardovi, a
managing director of AlixPartners and co-author of the report,
said in a phone interview. “For Banca IMI, regulatory reform is
an opportunity to add to the business model, make it more
independent and international,” he said.  Italian banks, plagued by souring loans, also would benefit
from the creation of a bad bank that would purchase
deteriorating credits, AlixPartners said in the report. By
selling non-performing loans, lenders would also boost their
transparency, which would in turn assist them in raising funds
from foreign investors, according to AlixPartners.  Bad loans of companies and households rose to a record 131
billion euros ($171 billion) in March, according to the
country’s banking association. Still, Giovanni Sabatini, the
group’s director general, ruled out the need for a bad bank in a
May 30 interview.  Reducing Risks  Lenders in the country are cutting costs and reducing risks
to boost finances, as  Italy ’s longest recession in two decades
is hurting profit and stricter capital rules are forcing them to
strengthen capital.  Italian banks should merge to improve their capital levels,
according to Scardovi. Smaller and weaker banks should be
incorporated in stable and more competitive lenders, helping to
cut costs, boost investments and improve their ability to
recapitalize. Scardovi said the number of Italian banks could be
reduced by more than half to as few as 300.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  