-- Titan Plunges as Morgan Stanley Cuts Rating on India Gold Curbs
-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n   a n d   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 2013-06-12T06:33:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/titan-plunges-as-morgan-stanley-cuts-rating-on-india-gold-curbs.html
Titan Industries Ltd. (TTAN) , India’s
largest jewelry maker by value, is bound for its biggest plunge
in almost five years as Morgan Stanley and three brokerages cut
their ratings after gold import norms were tightened.  Titan slumped 13 percent to 207.4 rupees at 11:56 a.m. in
Mumbai, headed for the sharpest fall since Oct. 15, 2008. The
stock has fallen for nine straight days, the longest losing run
since the period ended Sept. 16, 2008. Morgan Stanley cut its
recommendation to underweight from equal-weight, while Religare
Capital Markets Ltd. lowered it to hold from buy.  India increased the import duty on gold to 8 percent from 6
percent on June 5 and curbed purchases on a consignment basis by
lenders, state trading firms and others authorized to buy
directly in a bid to slow overseas purchases of the metal and
narrow a record current account deficit. Jewelers will have to
pay cash to import gold, according to  India ’s central bank.  “These regulations will affect cash margins of jewelers
due to higher cost of funding as equity or unsecured domestic
loans will be used to fund purchases and inventory will have to
be fully paid in cash, compared with gold on lease earlier,”
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in a report today, putting its
estimates on review pending further clarity from the company.  The new rules have altered Titan’s business model, which
may compel long-term investors to review their position, and may
make the company less competitive versus the unorganized
segment, Morgan Stanley said in a report.  The  Reserve Bank of India  is aiming to curb the appetite
for gold among the nation’s 1.2 billion population, for uses
ranging from jewelry to a hedge against retail inflation. Such
demand contributed to a $32.6 billion current-account gap in the
last quarter of 2012, equivalent to a record 6.7 percent of
gross domestic product.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net ;
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  