-- Live Nation Wins Arbitration With Ticket Seller CTS Eventim
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-06-12T21:33:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/live-nation-wins-arbitration-with-ticket-seller-cts-eventim.html
Live Nation Entertainment Inc. (LYV) ,
owner of the world’s largest ticket seller, won an arbitration
ruling that removes any liability to  CTS Eventim AG (EVD) , a rival to
its Ticketmaster unit. The shares surged the most in four years.  “The arbitrator’s final decision vindicates Live Nation’s
steadfast position that we justifiably terminated our contract
with CTS,” Michael Rapino, president and chief executive
officer of Live Nation Entertainment, said today in a statement.  The decision removes a potential $210 million charge for
Live Nation, the estimate of Stifel Nicolaus & Co. The company
terminated a 10-year contract with CTS in 2010 that covered
ticketing systems in the U.S., Canada and some European
countries. Live Nation, also the world’s biggest concert
promoter, said CTS failed to deliver a “world-class ticketing
system,” according to a company regulatory filing.  “It removes a significant obstacle,”  John Healy , an
analyst with Northcoast Research, said in a phone interview.
“This liability had weighed on investors’ psychology.”  Live Nation, based in Beverly Hills,  California , rose 17
percent to $16.17 at the close in  New York , the most since March
2009. Including today’s gain, the stock has climbed 74 percent
this year.  CTS, based in Bremen, Germany, had brought the proceeding
before the International Court of Arbitration of the
 International Chamber of Commerce  in April 2010.  ‘Disappointed’  “The management board of CTS Eventim AG is disappointed
but will accept the ruling without further comments,” the
company said in a statement. “It is important, after 3 years
duration of proceedings, that Eventim is able to fully
concentrate on its operational business again.”  Shares of CTS fell 0.3 percent to 31.75 euros today in
Germany, before the decision was made public. The stock has
climbed 19 percent this year.  An adverse decision would result in a charge for Live
Nation ranging from $100 million to $210 million, Stifel analyst
 Benjamin Mogil  estimated in January.  “This victory makes Live Nation attractive to more
investors,” said Healy, who has a neutral rating on the shares.
“Investors would bring this up as a major issue when deciding
about Live Nation because it was such an unknown outcome.”  Standard & Poor’s  said last month that it might consider
raising Live Nation’s credit rating to BB- from B+ if, among
other things, the CTS arbitration was resolved favorably.  The company didn’t set aside reserves for a possible
verdict, leaving the company vulnerable if the arbitrator had
decided for CTS, Healy said.  “A loss would have been detrimental, they would have had
to write a check,” Healy said. “But the management felt very
comfortable with the case they brought to the arbitrator, and
apparently for good reason.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  