-- Japan Passes Law Changes Dealing With Failed Financial Firms
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   S h i n g o   K a w a m o t o
-- 2013-06-12T05:25:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/japan-passes-law-changes-dealing-with-failing-financial-firms.html
Japan ’s parliament endorsed changes
in legislation dealing with failed financial institutions as
part of efforts by regulators worldwide to avoid a repeat of the
global financial crisis.  The passed amendments, proposed by the  Financial Services
Agency , allow brokerages and insurers to join banks in being
eligible for emergency capital from the state-run deposit
insurance agency. The Upper House today also approved so-called
bail-in rules that impose losses on investors of failing
financial institutions to reduce taxpayers’ burden. The vote was
broadcast live through the Internet.  The  market meltdown  following Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc.’s 2008 collapse prompted authorities around the world to
bolster preparedness for financial turmoil. The Basel Committee
on Banking Supervision, which sets international banking rules,
has proposed that creditors contribute to shoring up firms’
finances before public money is used in the event of a crisis.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. ,  Sumitomo Mitsui
Financial Group Inc. (8316)  and  Mizuho Financial Group Inc.  -- Japan’s
three so-called megabanks -- will seek approval from their
shareholders later this month to  change  corporate rules in
accordance with the law amendment, the Tokyo-based lenders said
in statements last month.  The revisions would allow the banks to issue preferred
shares that can convert into common stock or be written off if
firms become non-viable.  Mitsubishi UFJ shares fell 1 percent to 609 yen as of 2:22
p.m. in Tokyo. Sumitomo Mitsui dropped 0.7 percent and Mizuho
declined 1 percent. The benchmark Topix Index rose 0.1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in  Tokyo  at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Shingo Kawamoto in Tokyo at 
 skawamoto2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  