-- Japan Power Industry Bill Gets First Nod to Break Up Monopolies
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 2013-06-12T05:50:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/japan-power-industry-bill-gets-first-nod-to-break-up-monopolies.html
The first phase of a proposal to
revamp  Japan ’s 16 trillion yen ($166 billion) electricity
industry and spur competitition by making utilities split power
generation and distribution passed a lower house committee.  The plan, which calls for the creation of a new body around
2015 to coordinate power supply and demand, was approved today
in a meeting of the lower house’s economy and industry committee
broadcast on the Internet.  The overhaul, which needs to pass the full lower house and
then the upper house, aims to modernize Japan’s grid and follows
a model in  Europe  introduced in 2009 when the European
Parliament approved legislation to force utilities to open
access to their transmission networks. In  Germany ,  RWE AG (RWE) , the
country’s second-biggest utility, sold majority control in its
grid company in 2011 to satisfy regulators.  Since the Fukushima nuclear disaster in 2011, the public
has demanded more independent oversight of the utilities as the
disaster showed Tokyo Electric Power Co. ignored warnings of
earthquake and tsunami risk. That followed revelations the power
producers falsified maintenance reports for decades.  Japan’s cabinet, led by Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, in April
approved the reform plans. Parts two and three of the effort
include fully liberalizing the nation’s electricity retail
business by 2016 and spinning off utilities’ transmission and
distribution operations between 2018 and 2020.  Monopoly Utilities  The 10 regional utilities monopolize Japan’s electricity
business, owning more than 70 percent of generation capacity and
controlling distribution and transmission, the trade and
industry ministry said in a report in November.  With almost no competition among the regional monopolies
and few new entrants, the country’s electricity prices were
twice those in the U.S. before the Fukushima disaster increased
Japan’s electricity bills, the report said.  Abe earlier this month unveiled parts of his growth
strategy, the “third arrow” of an economic revival push, that
included plans to encourage competition and create jobs in the
 electricity market . The prime minister pledged to spur 30
trillion yen of investment in the electricity industry.  Abe Arrow  The government will hold a meeting of its industrial
competitiveness council tonight in Tokyo to discuss the draft
strategy, the trade and industry ministry said in an e-mail
yesterday. Economy Minister Akira Amari is scheduled to hold a
press conference around 7:40 p.m., according to the e-mail.  The ruling  Liberal Democratic Party  and the opposition
 Democratic Party  of Japan have agreed to pass the electricity
reform bill at a plenary session of the lower house tomorrow,
sending it to the upper house, the Mainichi newspaper reported
last week. The bill is expected to be enacted into law before
the current Diet session ends on June 26, the newspaper said.  Japan, the world’s fifth-biggest carbon dioxide emitter in
2010, last year introduced a feed-in-tariff program that pays
renewable energy producers above-market rates for their output,
aiming to spur investment in wind, solar and other renewables.  The country is reviewing its target to cut greenhouse gas
emissions by 25 percent by 2020 from 1990 levels after the
reactor shutdowns post-Fukushima forced the nation to rely on
oil-, gas- and coal-power plants.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in  Tokyo  at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  