-- Japan Stocks Pare Losses at Close as Power Producers Rise
-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 2013-06-12T07:26:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/japan-shares-fall-after-yen-surges-against-dollar-on-boj.html
Japan ’s  Topix index  pared losses at
the close after earlier falling as the yen surged overnight.
Carmakers, developers and paper companies declined while power
producers increased.  Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s biggest carmaker, fell 1.8
percent. Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc., Japan’s No. 1
lender, slid 1.8 percent after lawmakers passed a rule to impose
losses on investors of failing financial institutions.  Nomura
Real Estate Master Fund Inc. (3285) , Japan’s largest initial public
offering this year, sank 6.2 percent on its debut. Tokyo
Electric Power Co. surged 7.1 percent as utilities led gains.  The  Topix (TPX)  fell 0.4 percent to 1,096.54 at the close in
Tokyo, after rising as much as 0.2 percent in the afternoon. The
gauge earlier fell 2.6 percent after the yen gained the most in
three years overnight as the  Bank of Japan  yesterday kept policy
unchanged. The Topix surged 48 percent this year through May 22
on optimism Japan will emerge from deflation, before plunging
and entering a correction on May 30.  “The sell-off from investors who had bought shares on
expectations from the Bank of Japan has run its course and bad
news has been priced in for now,” said  Yoshihiro Okumura , a
general manager at Chiba-Gin Asset Management Co. in Tokyo.
“But concern over the currency remains, and it’s unlikely
shares can rise much right now.”  Best Performer  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average retreated 0.2 percent to
13,289.32, with volume about 37 percent below the 30-day
average. Even after the correction, the gauge is up about 28
percent this year, making it the best-performing major equity
benchmark globally, according to Bloomberg data.  Carmakers exerted the biggest drag on the Topix today, with
Toyota, Honda Motor Co. and Nissan Motor Co. each falling more
than 1.7 percent.  The yen rose 2.8 percent to 96.03 against the dollar
yesterday, its biggest gain since May 2010, before weakening in
the afternoon today. The currency strengthened overnight after
the BOJ refrained from extending maturities on fixed-rate loans
to banks as a measure to stem bond-market volatility. The Topix
lost 1 percent and the  Nikkei 225  fell 1.5 percent yesterday.  “We have concluded that we don’t need to have a new tool
for now as volatility has been greatly reduced amid our efforts
for flexible operations,” BOJ Governor Haruhiko Kuroda said
yesterday at a briefing, referring to bond price fluctuations.
“We will discuss when needed” any extension to the funding
limit, he said, adding that “I haven’t seen the need for it so
far.”  Monetary Easing  The BOJ unveiled a plan on April 4 to buy more than 7
trillion yen ($72 billion) of bonds every month in an attempt to
secure 2 percent inflation. Japan’s benchmark bond yield has
swung from a record low of 0.315 percent in April to as much as
1 percent since the BOJ announced the policy.  “The Nikkei falling to around 12,000 would be the limit
for the government’s patience with the BOJ,” said  Takuji Okubo ,
chief economist at Japan Macro Advisors in Tokyo and formerly of
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. “The central bank would come under
pressure for further measures such as more easing, longer
maturities -- some sort of stronger commitment.”  Financial shares fell, with the Topix gauge tracking banks
dropping 1.2 percent, insurers sinking 1.1 percent and
developers declining 1.7 percent.  Japan’s parliament today endorsed changes approving so-called bail-in rules that impose losses on shareholders if
financial institutions fail, as a way to reduce the burden on
taxpayers. The revisions would allow the banks to issue
preferred shares that can be converted into common stock or
written off if firms become non-viable.  Biggest IPO  Nomura Real Estate Master Fund, a Japanese real estate
investment trust run by the property arm of the nation’s biggest
brokerage, fell to 93,800 yen, 6.2 percent lower than the IPO
price of 100,000 yen. It was the biggest public offering of the
year in Japan, raising 175 billion yen.  In another drag on shares,  machinery orders  for April fell
8.8 percent from the previous month, the Cabinet Office said
today, more than the 8.1 percent estimate of 28 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. Machinery orders are an indicator of
future  capital spending .  “The corporate sector itself is still not confident,
that’s very clear,” Kathy Matsui, chief Japan strategist at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., said in an interview today. “They’re
not 100 percent clear that Abenomics is going to work. They’re
still on the fence.”  The Topix Electric Power & Gas Index advanced 2.7 percent,
offsetting yesterday’s 2.7 percent decline. Tokyo Electric Power
jumped 7.1 percent to 572 yen. Kansai Electric Power Co. gained
5 percent to 1,181 yen after being raised to outperform from
neutral at SMBC Nikko Securities.  Utilities gained even after a lower house committee of
Japan’s parliament passed the first phase of a proposal that
could open the power sector to competition.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in  Tokyo  at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  