-- Kenya Auto Dealer CMC Receives Approach for Possible Takeover
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2013-06-12T15:26:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/kenya-auto-dealer-cmc-receives-approach-for-possible-takeover.html
CMC Holdings Ltd., the Kenyan auto
dealer whose shares were suspended from trading almost two years
ago because of a board dispute, received an approach about a
possible takeover, Chairman Joel Kamau Kibe said.  “The decision to either offer a takeover or invest as a
strategic investor will depend on the outcome of the due
diligence,” Kibe told reporters in Nairobi today. He didn’t
give a timeframe for any action.  CMC shares were suspended from trading at the Nairobi
Securities Exchange in September 2011 amid a probe into a
dispute between directors.  CMC’s stock  last traded at 13.50
shillings, valuing the company at 7.87 billion shillings
($92 million).  “We are in the process of settling all outstanding issues
among them, all cases pending in court, to ensure the continued
viability of the company businesses,” Kibe said. CMC is
implementing a turnaround plan that will result in a “major
transformation,” he said in a statement.  CMC lost an exclusive franchise for Jaguar Land Rover sales
in  Kenya  and  Uganda  last year. It accounted for 23 percent of
last year’s sales, according to the company. Other franchises
include Volkswagen, Mazda, Ford, Suzuki, Nissan Diesel and MAN
trucks. CMC also sells agricultural vehicles.  CMC’s profit fell 62 percent to 147.5 million shillings in
the six months through March, while sales rose to 6.9 billion
shillings from 6.38 billion shillings. The company sold 1,258
vehicles in the fiscal first half compared with 1,140 a year
earlier, it said on May 30.  Promising Outlook  “The business performance for the first six months shows a
marked improvement in turnover and profitability, and the
outlook for the remainder of the year is promising,” Kibe said.
“The company is seeking to aggressively increase market share
both locally and in the region, with immediate focus on
operations in  South Sudan .”  CMC, Kenya’s fourth-biggest car dealership by sales, had an
11 percent market share in the first five months of 2013,
according the Kenya Motor Industry Association, an industry
lobby group. CMC’s vehicle sales rose 24 percent in that period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  