-- Kerry, Hagel Said to Attend White House Talks on Syria Rebel Aid
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-06-12T23:30:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/kerry-hagel-said-to-attend-white-house-talks-on-syria-rebel-aid.html
Top U.S. national security
officials, including Secretary of State  John Kerry , Defense
Secretary Chuck Hagel and Army General Martin Dempsey, chairman
of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, met at the White House today on
U.S. policy toward Syria, according to a U.S. official.  Kerry canceled plans for a trip to the  Middle East  this
week to participate in talks in Washington, including
discussions about what the U.S. can do to aid rebel forces
opposing Syrian President President Bashar al-Assad’s regime.
The official spoke on the condition of anonymity because the
meeting wasn’t publicly announced.  President  Barack Obama  was away today, traveling to
political events in Massachusetts and  Florida .  “We’re meeting to talk about the various balances in this
issue right now,” Kerry told reporters earlier today, speaking
about deliberations over  Syria  policy in general and not about
the White House meeting. Assad is “making it very difficult”
for the U.S. and allies to find a peaceful solution to the
conflict, he said.  “I have nothing to announce about that at this point, but
clearly the choice of weapons that he has engaged in, across the
board, challenge anybody’s values and standards of human
behavior,” Kerry said at a joint news conference with U.K.
Foreign Minister  William Hague . “We’re going to have to make
judgments for ourselves about how we can help the opposition to
be able to deal with that.”  Call for Arms  Obama’s administration is under pressure from allies and
critics in Congress, such as Republican Senator  John McCain  of
 Arizona , to provide arms to the Syrian opposition, which has
said it won’t participate in peace talks proposed by Kerry until
the U.S. does so. McCain has said Assad has no incentive to come
to peace talks if he is winning on the battlefield.  The administration has refrained from sending arms, in part
because of concern that the weapons could make their way into
the hands of radicals within the opposition.  Last week, Assad’s regime captured the strategically
located city of al-Qusair, giving government forces control of
the road that leads from Damascus to Lebanon. The opposition
Syrian Observatory for  Human Rights , based in the U.K., said
Syrian forces have shifted their focus to the city of Homs, a
rebel stronghold 30 kilometers (19 miles) northeast of Qusair.  Export Waivers  In a move to increase support for the rebels, the U.S.
today waived restrictions on some exports to opposition-held
areas of Syria to help people there survive and rebuild.  Today’s waiver by the administration allows U.S. companies
to avoid sanctions for the export of commodities, software and
equipment to opposition-held territories in farming,  food
processing , power generation, oil and gas production,
construction, engineering and transportation.  The aim is to help Syrians get by and rebuild shattered
cities, said a second official, who briefed reporters on
condition of anonymity. The waiver was prompted, in part, by
companies asking to export goods such as water-purification
systems to rebel-held areas, the official said.  The waiver was announced by e-mail as Kerry and Hague were
speaking at the State Department. The British diplomat cited a
need to tip the scales in favor of the opposition.  “We will have to be prepared to do more to save lives, to
pressure the Assad regime to negotiate seriously, and to prevent
the growth of extremism and terrorism if diplomatic efforts are
going to succeed,” Hague said.  ‘Political Solution’  Kerry and Hague stressed their desire for a political
resolution and their certainty that weapons alone aren’t the
solution.  “It’s not a question to me whether or not the opposition
can, quote, win,” Kerry said. “It’s a question of whether or
not we can get to this political solution.”  Israel’s concerns that anti-aircraft weaponry could be used
against them are weighing on U.S. decision-making, said David
Ottaway, a senior scholar at the Wilson Center, a  Washington 
policy group. Officials in  Saudi Arabia  and Qatar, who are
providing weapons to Syrian rebels, have been frustrated by U.S.
insistence that they shouldn’t send anti-aircraft weaponry, said
Ottaway, who recently returned from the Saudi kingdom.  “They’re very disappointed in the U.S. attitude,” Ottaway
said in a phone interview. “Not only are we not providing arms,
we’re preventing the arms the Syrian rebels most need -- the
anti-aircraft missiles -- from going to them, mostly because of
Israeli concerns that they could get into the hands of
extremists who could target Israeli aircraft.”  Golan Heights  In a report today, United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon recommended increasing the number of peacekeeping troops in
the  Golan Heights , monitoring a 40-year cease-fire between Syria
and  Israel , to 1,250 from a dwindling 900-person force. He also
said the peacekeepers’ mandate should be extended by six months.  The recommendation comes as countries including Croatia and
 Austria  are pulling out of the force as the area becomes
increasingly dangerous due to spillover from the two-year Syrian
conflict.  “The ongoing military activities in the area of separation
continue to have the potential to escalate tensions between
Israel and the Syrian Arab Republic and to jeopardize the cease-fire between the two countries,” Ban said in the report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  