-- N.Z.’s Reserve Bank Leaves Key Interest Rate at 2.5% (Full Text)
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-12T21:09:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/n-z-s-reserve-bank-leaves-key-interest-rate-at-2-5-full-text-.html
The following is a reformatted
version of a statement released on the website of the Reserve
Bank of  New Zealand , which today left its official cash rate at
a record-low 2.5 percent.  “The Reserve Bank today left the Official Cash Rate (OCR)
unchanged at 2.5 percent.  The global outlook remains mixed with disappointing data in
 Europe  and some other countries, and more positive indicators in
the  United States  and  Japan . Global financial sentiment
continues to be buoyant and the medium term outlook for New
Zealand’s main trading partners remains firm.  Growth in the New Zealand economy is picking up but remains
uneven across sectors. Consumption is increasing and
reconstruction in Canterbury continues to gather pace and will
be reinforced by a broader national recovery in construction
activity, particularly in Auckland. This will support aggregate
activity and eventually help to ease the housing shortage.  In the meantime rapid house price inflation persists in
Auckland and Canterbury. As previously noted, the  Reserve Bank 
does not want to see financial or price stability compromised by
housing demand getting too far ahead of the supply response.  Despite having fallen over the past few weeks, the  New
Zealand dollar  remains overvalued and continues to be a headwind
for the tradables sector, restricting export earnings and
encouraging demand for imports. Fiscal consolidation will
continue to constrain aggregate demand over the projection
horizon.  Annual CPI inflation has been just below 1 percent since
the September quarter of 2012, largely reflecting falling prices
for tradable goods and services. While tradables inflation is
likely to remain low, annual CPI inflation is expected to trend
upwards through the forecast period.  Reflecting the balance of several forces, we expect annual
GDP growth to accelerate to about 3.5 percent by the second half
of 2014, and inflation to rise towards the midpoint of the 1 to
3 percent target band.
Given this outlook, we expect to keep the OCR unchanged through
the end of the year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  