-- New Home Prices Say What’s Different This Time
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2013-06-12T22:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/new-home-prices-say-what-s-different-this-time.html
Although no two  business cycles  are
alike, most share some common characteristics. The interest-rate-sensitive sectors of the economy -- housing and
manufacturing -- tend to lead on the way up and the way down,
for obvious reasons. Inflation ebbs during the recession and in
the early stages of the recovery. Credit creation drives the
upswing.  The recovery from the 2007-2009 financial crisis has been
different all around, just as Harvard economists  Carmen Reinhart 
and  Kenneth Rogoff  predicted in their 2009  book , “This Time Is
Different: Eight Centuries of Financial Folly.” It has been a
“protracted affair,” featuring extended declines in asset
markets, large contractions in output and employment, and an
explosion of government debt: three characteristics common to
the aftermath of financial crises.  Yet even in the context of the typical post-financial-crisis recovery described by Reinhart and Rogoff, this one has
some peculiarities of its own.  Let’s start with housing, whose rise and fall and
associated debt were the proximate cause of the crisis.
Residential real estate pretty much sat out the first 2 1/2
years of the recovery before getting traction in 2012, with a
lot of outside help. The  Federal Reserve  drove down rock-bottom
 mortgage rates  even more with its purchases of Treasuries and
mortgage-backed securities, a program that continues to this
day.  Prices Beckon  The traditional leader was a laggard this time, and
improvement has been slow in coming -- at least when it comes to
construction and sales. Prices of new homes are a different
story.  The  median sales price  of a new single-family home set a
record of $271,600 in April, eclipsing the 2007 peak of
$262,600. Some of that reflects an increase in  median square
footage : 2,390 square feet last year compared with 2,235 square
feet in 2007, according to annual data from the U.S. Census
Bureau.  “They’re clearly not building for first-time buyers,”
said Michael Carliner, an economic consultant specializing in
housing.  Another part owes to a greater number of  sales of higher-priced homes  in more desirable areas of the country. The rest is
clearly a response to demand for  limited supply : Inventories are
near record lows while single-family starts are about two-thirds
lower than their 2006 peak. Prices of existing homes, on the
other hand, are still being constrained by foreclosure and short
sales, in which the house sells for less than the amount owed
the lender.  Also in the unusual column is  household net worth , which
hit a record $70.4 trillion in the first quarter as the value of
financial assets came roaring back, according to the Federal
Reserve’s  Flow of Funds report .  “Record wealth, ample liquidity and very little leverage:
It’s odd to have all three simultaneously,” said  Joe Carson ,
the director of global economic research at AllianceBernstein
LP.  Household debt  shrank in the January-March period as it has
for the better part of four years. Rising net worth usually goes
hand in hand with an increase in leverage, but not this time.  Not that households had much choice. Even if they wanted to
borrow, banks were atoning for their past excesses. Only
recently have lending standards started to ease somewhat. The
household  debt-service ratio  -- debt payments as a share of
disposable personal income -- fell to a record low of 10.4
percent in the first quarter compared with a peak of 14 percent
in the third quarter of 2007. You can thank low  interest rates 
for some of that decline.  Before the crisis,  home prices  hadn’t declined on a
national average basis since the Great Depression, which is one
reason the Fed was so complacent about the brewing real-estate
bubble.  ’Rare’ Dollar  Then there’s inflation, or the lack of it. Inflation in the
U.S. is slowing -- with and without food and energy prices --
four years after the trough. The Fed’s preferred inflation
measure, the personal consumption expenditures price index, was
up a scant 0.7 percent in the past 12 months. The core rate,
which excludes volatile food and energy prices, rose 1.1
percent.  Global inflation , as calculated by the  International
Monetary Fund , is slowing and stands at 2.9 percent even as
central banks around the world have become more aggressive in
their efforts to resuscitate ailing economies.  Finally, the strength of the  U.S. dollar  is “rare in a
post-crisis setting,” which may say more about the problems in
other developed countries, Reinhart said in an e-mail. “Crises
are usually coupled with currency crashes in both advanced and
emerging economies.”  The anomalies may be small at this point, too small to
require an update to eight centuries of data on financial
crises. With households on a stronger footing, inflation tame,
the  dollar  behaving and record new-home prices beckoning
builders for more, who knows? The differences may turn out to be
more important to the outlook than the similarities.  (Caroline Baum, author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer of this article:
 Caroline Baum  in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  