-- Fox Upfront Ad Commitments Said to Fall to $1.75 Billion
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-06-12T21:37:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/news-corp-s-fox-said-to-get-1-75-billion-in-upfront-ad-sales.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox broadcast network
is almost finished negotiating advance advertising commitments
that fell to about $1.75 billion for the coming television
season, said a person with knowledge of the situation.  That represents a decline of about 10 percent from the
$1.95 billion in so-called upfront commitments a year ago, said
the person, who asked for anonymity because negotiations are
private. Average ad rates rose 5 percent to 7 percent, and Fox
sold commitments for about 80 percent of its ad inventory in the
coming season, the person said.  The value of Fox’s total total ad commitments has dropped
even though rates are higher because its audience declined 21
percent in the season that ended in May. Among viewers aged 18
to 49, a group targeted by advertisers, its audience dropped 22
percent, according to Nielsen data. Fox told advertisers in May
it plans to shake up its prime-time schedule by adding five
comedies and four dramas. The network will also bring back the
hit espionage drama “24” for a limited run.  “ American Idol ,” Fox’s most-popular program, had been
TV’s most popular show until last year. This season, it averaged
13.2 million viewers, down 23 percent from a year earlier.
Executive producer  Nigel Lythgoe  announced this week he was
leaving the program. Reality TV chief Mike Darnell also said he
plans to exit the network at the end of the month.  Prime Time  News Corp., controlled by Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer  Rupert Murdoch , fell 2.3 percent to $30.94 at the close
in New York. The stock has gained 21 percent so far this year.  The broadcast television networks are finishing talks with
their biggest advertisers to establish prime-time rates for the
next TV season. CW Network has completed discussions, CBS Corp.
is wrapping up, while  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC and  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s
NBC continue to negotiate. Ad spending at the broadcast networks
will fall 2 percent to $16.9 billion, according to
ZenithOptimedia,  Publicis Groupe SA (PUB) ’s research division.  CBS’s broadcast network has almost completed negotiations
for prime-time advertising commitments totaling about $2.7
billion, a person with knowledge of the situation said last
week. Rates are 7.5 percent to 8.5 percent higher than a year
ago and  CBS (CBS)  is targeting advance commitments for 70 percent to
80 percent of its ad inventory, the person said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  