-- Nordea Sells Its Polish Units to PKO Bank for 694 Million Euros
-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z   a n d   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2013-06-12T19:18:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/nordea-sells-its-polish-units-to-pko-bank-for-694-million-euros.html
Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , Scandinavia’s
largest bank, sold its Polish units to the country’s biggest
lender PKO Bank Polski SA for 694 million euros ($925 million).  Nordea agreed to sell its bank, financing and life
insurance units to PKO, according to separate regulatory
statements from both companies. PKO agreed to pay 2.64 billion
zloty ($826 million) for Nordea Bank Polska SA, 180 million
zloty for the life insurance business and 8 million zloty for
Nordea Finance Polska, state-controlled PKO said in the
statement.  The transaction will “lead to a minor capital gain and
profit and loss effect,” Nordea said in the statement. It will
add 50 basis points, or half a percentage point, to Nordea’s
core Tier 1 capital ratio.  PKO’s Nordea purchase is the country’s biggest M&A
transaction this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Foreign banks operating in  Poland  are facing increased
competition and lower revenue from lending after demand for
goods and services fell. Growth in the European Union’s biggest
eastern economy may slow to 1.5 percent this year, the weakest
since 2002, according to central bank forecasts.  Nordea had set out ambitious targets in Poland, saying in
2010 that it planned to have 400 branches in the country and
double its market share to 8 percent. In April last year, it
back-tracked and announced it would reduce staff in Poland by 20
percent and cut branches to about 135 from 193. Citigroup Inc.,
DNB ASA,  Norway ’s biggest bank, and  BNP Paribas (BNP)  have announced
similar plans to pare their operations in the country.  Active Market  As part for the deal, Nordea will keep financing its
mortgage portfolio in Poland and will participate in the risk of
the loans losing their value, PKO said. The banks need to
receive regulatory approvals to close the transaction.  PKO plans to buy all shares of Nordea Bank and withdraw it
from public trading. Operating profit at the unit fell to 78
million euros last year from 95 million euros in 2011. Net loan
losses swelled to 37 million euros from 14 million euros.  Poland has been among the most active markets in  Europe  for
deals involving banks and insurers in the last three years.
Santander acquired Bank Zachodni WBK SA and Kredyt Bank SA and
created the country’s third-largest lender this year. Austria’s
Raiffeisen Bank International AG bought Polbank SA from EFG
Eurobank Ergasias SA of  Greece , while  Germany ’s  Talanx AG (TLX) 
purchased insurer Warta SA from  Belgium ’s KBC Groep NV.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net ;
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  