-- Northeast Asia LNG Gains on Stronger Summer Demand, WGI Says
-- B y   C h o u   H u i   H o n g
-- 2013-06-12T01:41:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/northeast-asia-lng-gains-on-stronger-summer-demand-wgi-says.html
Liquefied natural gas prices for
delivery to Northeast Asia gained this week on forecasts for
stronger summer demand amid  South Korea ’s nuclear stoppages,
according to Energy Intelligence Group.  Spot cargoes for delivery of the power-station fuel over
the next four to eight weeks rose to $14.60 per million British
thermal units from $14.50 per million Btu in the period ended
June 3, the research company said on the website of its World
Gas Intelligence publication. The price in Southwest Europe was
unchanged from last week at $11.55, according to WGI.  Prices for the power-station fuel will increase this week
as warmer summer weather in North Asia boosts demand for
electricity to run air conditioners, according to three of four
traders surveyed by  Bloomberg News  through June 6.  Asian LNG buyers typically pay more in the months before
and during the northern-hemisphere summer from June through
August as electricity consumption increases.  South Korea, the world’s fourth-biggest  producer  of nuclear
power last year, is struggling to meet its summer electricity
needs as the shutdown of two reactors last week and delays to
the resumption of a third cuts supplies.  Fake Certificates  The country, which depends on nuclear energy for more than
30 percent of its electricity generation, halted the reactors
after discovering the facilities were using components with fake
quality certificates. The nation may face “unprecedented”
power shortages, Vice Minister for Energy Han Jin Hyun said May
28.  Korea Gas Corp. (036460) , the world’s largest buyer of LNG, will be
looking for additional cargoes as power stations boost thermal
electricity generation, according to WGI. The company will
probably turn to term suppliers initially rather than the  spot
market  for more shipments, it said.  Korea Gas, known as Kogas, will discuss LNG volumes with
its long-term suppliers, a company official said June 3, asking
not to be identified because he isn’t authorized to speak to the
media. The impact of the nuclear outages is being monitored and
South Korea’s government is enforcing power-saving measures, the
official said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chou Hui Hong in Singapore at 
 chong43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  