-- Norway Ignores Tariff Pleas by Gas Pipeline Investors
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   R e e d   a n d   M a t t h e w   W i n k l e r
-- 2013-06-13T10:03:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/norway-ignores-tariff-pleas-by-gas-pipeline-investors.html
Norway ’s oil minister said it would
be difficult to abandon a plan to cut tariffs on its gas
pipelines by as much as 90 percent, ignoring pleas from
international investors to scale back the reductions from funds
committing $5.6 billion to the network.  Western Europe’s largest gas exporter will announce a final
decision by the end of this month, Oil and Energy Minister Ola Borten Moe said in an interview in Oslo yesterday.  “I think it’s very difficult to” envisage a compromise,
the 37-year-old minister said. “If you are a regulator, it’s
very difficult to be just a little bit of a regulator.”  Norway in January announced plans to cut tariffs paid by
producers by almost 90 percent to make more finds profitable and
to boost exploration and recovery rates. Investors in the
pipelines, which include Canadian pension funds, a  UBS AG (UBSN) 
infrastructure fund and a unit of  Abu Dhabi ’s sovereign fund,
estimate the cut would lower returns to about 4 percent, below
the projected minimum of 7 percent.  The lower returns for shipping gas through the 7,800-kilometer (4,850-mile) network will still be good enough for
Norway to attract investment and develop oil and gas resources
in the  Barents Sea  off its northern tip, Borten Moe said.  “If you have the commercial foundation, it will be
unproblematic to raise enough capital and competence to build a
pipeline to the Barents Sea,” he said. “Why shouldn’t it?”  Statoil to Exxon  Norway, which is trying to make up for declining North Sea
oil and gas output by expanding northwards, has rattled
investors in the last two years, unexpectedly deciding to wind
down Eksportfinans ASA, a government-backed export lender, and
then by proposing the Gassled network pipeline cuts. The
government has since announced a surprise increase in taxes on
energy producers, drawing criticism from companies, including
Statoil,  ConocoPhillips (COP)  and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)   “The changes that we’ve proposed in the Gassled tariffs
are probably more important when it comes to unlocking marginal
resources than the changes in the tax system,” Borten Moe said.
“Our policy has always been that we’re going to take out the
value at the resource and not in the infrastructure.”  Polarled, a 25 billion-krone ($4.3 billion) pipeline being
built to connect  Statoil ASA (STL) ’s Aasta Hansteen gas field to  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s Nyhamna processing facility 480 kilometers
away, will also go ahead even amid investor concerns on returns,
Borten Moe said.  Super Profits  That pipeline, being funded by oil companies including
Statoil,  Total SA (FP)  and Shell, may become part of “Gassled in the
future, that’s a commercial decision,” the minister said. The
owners of Gassled don’t have a monopoly on building new gas
infrastructure in Norway, he said.  Gassled owners including Solveig Gas Norway AS and Njord
Gas Infrastructure AS have threatened to turn their backs on
future projects, including buying out the  oil companies  that are
building Polarled, if the tariff cut is introduced.  “The point of departure is that it’s not going to be
highly profitable to sit on the infrastructure,” Borten Moe
said. “The value is created at the fields and that’s where we
are going to take out the super profits.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alastair Reed in Oslo on  at
 areed12@bloomberg.net 
Matt Winkler in  New York  at 
 mwinkler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at   jbergman@bloomberg.net  