-- Nvidia CEO Sees Automotive Business Growing to $1 Billion
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-06-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/nvidia-ceo-sees-automotive-business-growing-to-1-billion.html
Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  Chief Executive Officer
Jen-Hsun Huang said sales of the company’s processors for use in
cars will keep doubling every year to reach $1 billion annually
as automakers seek to attract consumers with advanced features.  About 30 new models using Nvidia’s Tegra processor will be
introduced in the next two to three years, Huang said in an
interview yesterday. The company will add U.S. and Japanese
automakers to a list of customers that includes  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s
Audi and  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) , Huang said.  The push into automobiles is part of Huang’s efforts to
reduce the company’s  reliance  on personal-computer graphics
cards amid the worst slump in PC sales on record. Customizable
instrument screens and high-end navigation and entertainment
systems, which until now have been the preserve of more
expensive vehicles, are going to start appearing in cheaper cars
as consumers demand features that match the look and utility of
their smartphones, Huang said.  “Until now, it’s been quite slow,” Huang said. “It’s
taken us about seven years to build a $100 million business. Now
it’s doubling every year.”  Huang, a co-founder, didn’t give a timeframe for when car-chip sales would reach $1 billion. Nvidia has been seeking to
boost  sales , which grew at a slower pace in fiscal 2013 than the
year before. Chips from the  Santa Clara , California-based
company have started to appear in smartphones and server
computers, and Nvidia has unveiled its own handheld gaming
device, Shield.  Shield Orders  Suji De Silva, an analyst at Topeka Capital Markets Inc. in
 New York , said Nvidia needs to keep delivering progress in these
new areas to stave off competition from  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and  Qualcomm
Inc. (QCOM)   “They have to prove out a lot of these stories,” said De
Silva, who has a hold  rating  on Nvidia’s stock. “Every year has
been an up story, and a down story, for them.”  Nvidia  shares  declined less than 1 percent to $14.05 at
yesterday’s close in New York, leaving them up 15 percent this
year, compared with a 19 percent  advance  in the Philadelphia
Semiconductor Index.  Nvidia began taking orders last month for Shield, which is
built on the Tegra processor and runs  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android
mobile operating system. The machine is aimed at boosting sales
of other devices using Tegra by increasing the use of games
designed for that platform, he said.  “The reception has been great,” said Huang. “If we sell
some, that’s fantastic as well, but it’s not the fundamental
purpose. The fundamental purpose is to get great games on
Android on Tegra.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  