-- OCC Tells Banks to Start Planning Safe Phase-out of Swaps Trades
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-06-12T14:58:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/occ-tells-banks-to-start-planning-safe-phase-out-of-swaps-trades.html
U.S. regulators released letters
telling  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of America Corp.  and other
banks to safely shed derivatives, granting them two more years
to wall off such trades from units that get federal backing.  The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency sent the
approval letters yesterday to the banks, also including
 Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  HSBC Holdings
Plc (HSBA)  and  U.S. Bancorp. (USB)  Each bank now has until July 2015 to come
up with “orderly” ways to comply with Dodd-Frank Act rules
meant to limit taxpayer vulnerability to riskier bank trading.  “The OCC has found that the potential impact of granting a
24-month transition period is less adverse than the potential
impact of denying the transition period or providing a
significantly shorter transition period.,” according to the
 letters , signed by Martin Pfinsgraff, acting senior deputy
comptroller supervising large banks. Waiting two years lessens
the risk of “operational problems and market disruption.”  Dodd-Frank overhauled swaps-trading in an effort to make
the industry less vulnerable to a crisis such as the one that
struck in 2008. The law required equity, some commodity and non-cleared credit derivatives be pushed out of bank units that are
backed by government deposit insurance or the Federal Reserve
discount window.  The OCC letters said banks must figure out whether to kill
the swaps activity or move them out to affiliates, which must be
properly capitalized. Interest-rate and some credit swaps can
still be traded inside the banks.  Last week, the Fed granted foreign-based U.S. banks the
same leeway under the 2010 law, inviting them to request the 24-month transition. The move avoided a July 16 deadline that could
have forced the foreign-based banks to cut off their swaps
activities next month.  The OCC had invited the requests in guidance sent to banks
in January and is also now informing the uninsured branches of
foreign banks that it regulates that they can also request the
delay.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 