-- Loeb Opposes Teachers Union on Pensions as Asness Quits
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n   a n d   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2013-06-12T18:34:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/loeb-opposes-teachers-over-pensions-as-asness-withdraws.html
Daniel Loeb , founder of Third Point
LLC, is escalating a battle between hedge-fund managers and
American Federation of Teachers President  Randi Weingarten  over
public-worker pensions.  Loeb, who manages $13.6 billion, had fellow hedge-fund
chiefs  Paul Tudor Jones ,  David Tepper  and  Paul Singer  applauding
in the ballroom of Manhattan’s Mandarin Oriental Hotel last
month as he donated an extra $1 million to a group of charter
schools to show his opposition to the head of the second-biggest
U.S. teachers union.  In April, the union included the four billionaires on its
“watch list” of money managers that support groups the labor
organization said are hostile to traditional public pensions.
The groups included  StudentsFirst , an organization that backs
eliminating tenure and funding  charter schools  at the same level
as public ones.  “Some of you in this room have come under attack for
supporting charter-school education reform and freedom in
general,” Loeb told the audience. To show opposition to
Weingarten, the “leader of this attack,” Loeb, 51, boosted his
pledge to the nonprofit  Success Academy Charter Schools  in  New
York  City, where he’s a director, to $3 million from $2 million.  States and municipalities seeking to boost returns for
their retirement funds have invested billions of dollars with
 hedge funds . The AFT wants pension trustees to consider fund
managers’ ties to groups that oppose defined-benefit retirement
systems as a reason when hiring or firing them. Critics say that
threatens the managers’ livelihoods.  Chilling Effect  “It’s a means to shut up organizations,” said Lawrence Mone, president of the  Manhattan Institute for Policy Research,
one of the groups highlighted by the union.  The New York-based
nonprofit, which says it promotes economic choice and individual
responsibility, recommends that governments shift workers to
401(k)-type plans used by many companies.  Loeb, an activist investor who called for the breakup of
 Sony Corp. (6758)  and successfully pushed  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  Chief Executive
Officer  Scott Thompson  to resign, is the only one of the 33
managers targeted by the AFT to push back publicly against the
union.  Stepping Down  Others on the list have folded.  Thomas McWilliams, a managing partner of New York-based
private-equity firm Court Square Capital Partners, resigned last
month, Mone said. McWilliams didn’t return a call seeking
comment.  Cliff Asness, founder of Greenwich, Connecticut-based AQR
Capital Management, won’t renew his term on the board of the
Manhattan Institute when it expires in less than a year and will
work to moderate the group’s position on defined benefits, said
Dan Pedrotty, director of pensions and capital strategies at the
union, citing e-mails and conversations with AQR principal David Kabiller.  Kabiller didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment.  Raymond Niemiec, a spokesman for the  Manhattan Institute ,
said he couldn’t comment immediately on Asness’s status.  “For people who belong to the Manhattan Institute or
support education reform, I think it’s important to make a
determination -- what’s more important to you, your money or
your principles,” Loeb said in a telephone interview. “For me,
it’s my principles.”  ‘National Interest’  Marge Wyrwas, a spokeswoman for AQR, said in a statement
that Asness “is and will continue to be a board member of the
Manhattan Institute.”  “He shares the institute’s respect for the power of
liberty to better people’s lives,” she said. “Cliff’s mission
is to work to ensure that all pension plans, very much including
defined-benefit plans, continue to provide for the secure
retirement of their beneficiaries, a vital national interest.”  Court Square has been removed from the AFT’s watch list and
AQR will be taken off when Asness leaves the board, Pedrotty
said.  AQR oversees $78.9 billion, as of March 31, said Wyrwas.
The firm’s clients include the Teachers’ Retirement System of
Illinois and Ohio’s Public Employees Retirement System.  Court Square oversees $6.8 billion. The firm manages assets
for the  California Public Employees’ Retirement System , the
biggest U.S. pension.  ‘More Sustainable’  Third Point , based in New York, handles investments for at
least five public pensions, including the Employees’ Retirement
System of  Rhode Island ,  New Jersey’s pension fund  and Ohio’s
Public Employees Retirement System.  Loeb is a director of the  New York affiliate  of
StudentsFirst, an organization founded by former Washington
school Chancellor Michelle Rhee. It says defined-benefit plans
are draining resources from classrooms and that governments
should move to  retirement plans  that are “more sustainable,”
according to the group’s website. The  fund manager , who’s also a
Manhattan Institute trustee, says he’s never taken a position
against defined-benefit plans.  Weingarten says Loeb should address his conflict of
interest.  “All we tried to do is get him to answer the simple
question: about harmonizing his want to advise hundreds of
millions of dollars of hard-working teacher pension funds while
sitting on the board of StudentsFirst, which is a group that’s
trying to kill their retirement benefits,” she said in a
telephone interview.  “He probably has never had anybody respectfully and nicely
ask him a question that he didn’t want to answer.”  Rhode Island  Loeb says he represents the interests of public-school
teachers and other government employees by earning a rate of
return that exceeds pensions’ benchmarks. Third Point hasn’t
lost any of its public-worker fund clients, Loeb said.  The Rhode Island pension’s $50 million investment with
Third Point in January 2012 has returned 22.7 percent through
April 30, according to  a May report  from the state Investment
Commission.  Loeb’s firm is Rhode Island’s top global equity manager in
the current fiscal year through April 30, returning 27 percent,
according to the report. That compares with 20.23 percent for
the  Russell 3000 index , which Rhode Island uses as a benchmark.
The  Standard & Poor’s 500 index  returned 19.5 percent, including
reinvested dividends. The HFRI Equity Hedge Index returned 11
percent.  List Timing  Joy Fox, a spokeswoman for state Treasurer Gina Raimondo,
said the commission focuses on the investment strategies and
performance, not the personal views of the managers associated
with them.  The AFT released its investment manager list in April
before a meeting of the Council of Institutional Investors, a
nonprofit association of pension funds, endowments and
foundations.  Loeb, who was to speak at the conference about corporate
governance, backed out of the engagement, citing “false
reports” about his stance regarding defined-benefit pensions,
according to a  letter  he wrote the council.  The real motivation for the AFT targeting him isn’t
StudentsFirst’s policy on pensions, Loeb said. Rather, it’s his
support for changing education policy to focus on the needs of
children.  Not Intimidated  Loeb is a director of the Success Academy charter schools
which educate almost 5,000 students in 14 New York City
facilities. He’s contributed millions of dollars to such
institutions and groups that want to evaluate teachers based on
student results and make it easier to fire poor performers.  “Rather than intimidate me, it had the effect of
redoubling my commitment and making me realize how important our
work is because these kids face such obstacles,” Loeb said of
the AFT’s list in a telephone interview.  “Not only do they have the obstacles of their poverty and
backgrounds, they’re up against a well-funded institution that’s
methodically trying to undermine their education.”  Charter schools, usually privately run institutions funded
with taxpayer money, operate without many of the rules governing
public ones. Charter supporters say they offer a better
alternative to failing schools, especially for poor students.  Charter Opposition  Teachers unions say that charter schools don’t enroll
students from the poorest families or those with special needs.
They say that money managers are using the charter movement to
promote their ideological goals such as breaking unions.  In addition to Court Square,  KKR & Co (KKR) , the private equity
firm led by billionaires  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts , was
removed from the AFT watch list after the company wrote a letter
to Weingarten pledging support for public pensions, said
Pedrotty, a union official.  A foundation connected to Kravis previously contributed to
the Manhattan Institute, the AFT said.  “This idea that you can take money from a fund and then
have a huge conflict of interest, that’s ending,” Pedrotty
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net ;
Amanda Gordon in New York at 
 agordon01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  