-- OGX’s Sub-50 Cent Bonds Signal Death of Billionaire Put
-- B y   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a   a n d   B o r i s   K o r b y
-- 2013-06-12T16:59:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/ogx-s-sub-50-cent-bonds-signal-death-of-billionaire-put.html
Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista ’s
increasingly frenetic search for cash is unnerving bond
investors.  OGX’s $2.56 billion of notes due in 2018 fell 8.69 cents on
the dollar to a record 48.11 cents yesterday, a day after he
said in a filing he had sold 70.5 million shares between May 24
and May 29 for 121.8 million reais ($56.7 million) at an average
price that’s more than 90 percent below its all-time high. The
bonds have lost 41.9 percent this year, the worst-performing
emerging-market securities with at least $500 million
outstanding, as yields surged to 28.75 percent, according to
Bloomberg index data.  The stock sale, coming weeks after he put his private jet
up for sale, signals the death of a  put option  that would oblige
Batista to purchase as much as $1 billion of OGX shares if the
company needed additional capital and couldn’t find more
favorable financing options. The sale, equal to less than 3
percent of Batista’s controlling stake, comes as more than $28
billion of his personal wealth has evaporated since last year
after  shares  fell 87 percent and his oil producer struggles to
meet output goals.  “In terms of timing and sending a signal to the market,
being the main owner and selling now at such a distressed level
and in order to monetize such a paltry amount, it is anything
but a show of confidence,” Henri Alexaline, who helps manage $1
billion of fixed income at FM Capital Partners Ltd. in  London ,
said by e-mail. “It certainly puts into question Eike’s own
finances and his ability to respect the $1 billion put he is
facing next year to finance  capital expenditures .”  ‘Quality Assets’  OGX’s press office declined to comment on the performance
of the company’s bonds.  Under terms of the option, which expires May 2014, Batista
would pay 6.3 reais per share, as much as four times the price
he sold at last month. OGX shares  sank  8.5 percent to 1.18 reais
yesterday.  “This option underpins my confidence in OGX’s technical
expertise and quality assets, as well as the new opportunities
that the oil and gas sector offer to OGX,” Batista said in a
statement on Oct. 24.  The divestment follows injections of at least 2 billion
reais of his own cash into the company since the  initial public
offering  in June 2008. Batista is raising cash as local lenders
demand more collateral for loans. Last month, he raised 1.4
billion reais by selling a stake in power-generation venture MPX
Energia SA to  Germany ’s E.ON SE. OGX also sold an $850 million
stake in a field to  Malaysia ’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd.  Cash Plunges  The put “is essential to capitalize OGX,” Banco Santander
SA analysts Christian Audi and Vicente Falanga Neto said in a
note to clients today.  Batista is worth $6.3 billion, down from a peak of $34.5
billion in March last year, according to the  Bloomberg
Billionaires Index . His stake in OGX is worth $1 billion after
the sale.  “It seems obvious that Mr. Batista is stretching for
cash,” Cornel Bruhin, a money manager responsible for $4.5
billion of emerging-markets debt at MainFirst Schweiz AG, said
in an e-mail. “If I were bondholder, I would start worrying
even more after this news.”  OGX’s  cash holdings  fell 43 percent last year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Its $1.1 billion of cash and
equivalents at the end of the first quarter and funds from the
Petronas sale are set to run out by mid-2014. Trailing 12-month
free  cash flow  fell to negative $1.77 billion last year, the
data show.  Recovery Value  Standard & Poor’s  assigned OGX a  rating  of B-, six levels
below investment grade, on April 3 after the company missed
output goals and crude production fell 86 percent in four
months. Moody’s Investors Service downgraded the company’s
rating six days later to B2, or five levels below investment
grade, citing the company’s low production.  Fitch Ratings , which cut OGX’s rating to B- on May 17,
estimates bondholders may recover between 31 cents on the dollar
and 50 cents on the dollar in a restructuring.  “There’s nothing there to support the bond,” said
Vinicius Pasquarelli, an emerging-market debt trader at Standard
Credit Group LLC. “You’re selling something that doesn’t have
anything to back it up. You bought a business plan, and it’s
going down.”  Jack Deino, a  money manager  who oversees about $1.8 billion
in emerging-market debt at Invesco Ltd., says Batista still has
a chance to turn things around if OGX’s oil production rebounds.  ‘Good Luck’  “Don’t count OGX out and don’t count Eike Batista out,”
Deino said in an interview in  New York . “Exploration and
production is unpredictable and it’s risky, and just as he’s had
some bad luck on his first few production wells, he could have
some good luck going forward.”  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian
government dollar bonds instead of  U.S. Treasuries  fell 13 basis
points to 229 basis points at 12:56 p.m. in New York, according
to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global index.  The cost of protecting Brazilian bonds against default for
five years fell five basis points to 172 basis points, according
to prices compiled by Bloomberg. Credit-default swaps pay the
buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities or
the cash equivalent if a borrower fails to adhere to its debt
agreements.  ‘Broke’ Batista  The real weakened 0.8 percent to 2.1493 per dollar.  Batista’s fortune is also plunging as the value of his
other companies, including oil service provider OSX Brazil SA,
miner MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA and logistics company LLX
Logistica SA, tumble.  “A ‘broke Batista’ makes the put option impossible to
exercise,” Rafael Elias, a director of emerging-markets trading
at Credit Agricole SA in New York, wrote in a note to clients.
In that situation “the cash strain increases substantially and
the default risk skyrockets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Korby in New York at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  