-- Oil Trader’s Ex-Wife Wins U.K. Supreme Court Divorce Case
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-06-12T10:16:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/oil-trader-s-ex-wife-wins-u-k-supreme-court-divorce-ruling.html
An oil trader’s ex-wife won a U.K.
 Supreme Court  ruling giving her the right to force offshore
companies owned by her former husband,Michael Prest, to turn
over assets as part of a 17.5 million-pound ($27.4 million)
divorce settlement.  Petrodel Resources Ltd. held several U.K. properties in
trust for Prest -- and his wife, Yasmin Prest, can access them
to satisfy the award in the divorce case, the U.K. Supreme Court
ruled today. The court said the relationship between Prest and
the companies was so close that it created an exception to the
traditional separation of corporate and personal assets.  “In the particular circumstances of the case, the
properties were held by the husband’s companies on a resulting
trust for the husband, and were accordingly property to which
the [husband] is entitled, either in possession or reversion,”
the court said in a statement summarizing Justice  Jonathan Sumption ’s ruling today.  Past divorce rulings in the British capital have tended to
favor the spouse with fewer assets, leading a U.K. appeals court
to call the country the “divorce capital” of the world. The
Supreme Court today sought to issue a measured opinion that
addressed the facts of the case while limiting the right to
pierce the corporate veil, said Sam Longworth, a lawyer at
Stewarts Law LLP in London.  Fair Outcome  “The decision highlights the willingness of the court to
look at the reality of a situation in order to achieve a fair
outcome,” Longworth said in an e-mailed statement. “Whilst
Mrs. Prest won her appeal, she lost on almost every point and
the Supreme Court went in an entirely different direction to
achieve the outcome it considered fair.”  Yasmin Prest appealed an earlier ruling that denied her
access to properties controlled by her ex-husband to cover part
of the divorce settlement, which Michael Prest hasn’t paid,
according to court documents at the U.K. top court. Her ex-husband isn’t a party to the litigation.  “The decision means that manipulative spouses can’t evade
their responsibilities by artificially using a corporate
structure to protect their assets in the event of a divorce,”
Jeremy Posnansky, Yasmin Prest’s lawyer at Farrer & Co., said in
an e-mailed statement. “The judgments aren’t only important for
matrimonial law, but also for company law and entrepreneurs.
It’s the most authoritative review and refinement of the law
about piercing the corporate veil since 1897.”  Nigeria-born Prest is “prominent in and successful in
international oil development and trade,” and estimated to be
worth about 38 million pounds, according to an earlier ruling.
British law provides that companies are legally separate
entities from their shareholders -- raising a corporate veil --
in order to protect investors from debts or liabilities the
company may accumulate.  Lawyers representing Petrodel Resources didn’t immediately
respond to a request for a comment on the ruling.  The case is Petrodel Resources Ltd. and others
(Respondents) v Prest (Appellant), U.K. Supreme Court  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in  London  at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  