-- Oil to Mining Faces EU Tax Disclosure Rule After Lawmakers Vote
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-06-12T11:02:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/oil-to-mining-faces-eu-tax-disclosure-rule-after-lawmakers-vote.html
Oil, natural-gas and mining
companies will be forced to disclose what taxes, license fees
and other payments they make to governments as part of plans
approved by European Parliament lawmakers to boost corporate
transparency.  Legislators today approved the plans, which will also cover
forestry, at a meeting of the assembly in Strasbourg,  France .
The transparency proposals would also scrap quarterly reporting
rules for publically traded companies from all industries, and
impose tougher requirements on businesses to disclose holdings
of securities, in a bid to prevent a company from covertly
exercising control over another firm.  Today’s vote by the parliament paves the way for the
measures to be formally signed into law, and to take effect
later this year. EU nations signalled their support for the
plans in Brussels last month.  The transparency rules are in the vanguard of a broader EU
push to force companies to disclose more information about their
internal financial arrangements. Under plans approved earlier
this year, banks with headquarters in the bloc will be required
starting from 2015 to reveal the profits they make, subsidies
they receive and taxes they pay on a country-by-country basis.  Michel Barnier, the EU’s finance-services chief, said last
month that he would seek to extend the bank measures to all
large companies, in order to satisfy calls from EU leaders for
action against tax evasion.  The EU’s push comes amid international controversy on
whether companies like Apple Inc. and Google Inc. are taking
excessive advantage of cross-border tax loopholes. EU leaders
vowed last month to investigate “aggressive” tax planning, and
pledged support for tougher corporate transparency rules.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  