-- Hollande to Ask French to Work More as Pension Deficit Balloons
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2013-06-12T22:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/hollande-to-ask-french-to-work-more-as-pension-deficit-balloons.html
President Francois Hollande has an
unpalatable message for the French: they need to work more.  Thirty-two years after  France ’s first Socialist President
Francois Mitterrand cut the retirement age by five years, his
party’s successor at the Elysee Palace is telling the French
preserving their way of life means staying in jobs longer.
Hollande’s government tomorrow kicks off three-month long talks
with employer and employee groups to save a state pension system
that last year lost 14 billion euros ($18 billion).  Tackling the pay-as-you-go pension system, which accounts
for 13.3 percent of the economy and is the only resource for
most of the nation’s 13.1 million retirees, is the latest test
for Hollande’s ability to satisfy his Socialist electoral base
while fulfilling his declared ambition to eliminate France’s
budget deficit and improve the country’s competitiveness.  “Pensions are an extremely politically charged issue in
France,” said  Antonio Barroso , senior vice president at
consulting firm Teneo Intelligence in  London . “There’s no doubt
that reform is needed. There’s going to be a huge deficit by
2020 if nothing is done. The problem is what reform do you do?”  As he has on other economic issues, Hollande has so far
played both sides on the pensions. One of his first acts after
winning office 13 months ago was to cut the minimum retirement
age to 60 from 62 for workers who had started their careers as
teenagers, affecting about 110,000 people a year and funded by a
0.1 percentage-point increase in payroll charges.  Soon after, Hollande began peppering his speeches with
comments about longevity forcing the French to work longer
before retiring.  ‘Unsustainable’ System  “Since we are living longer, sometimes much longer, we’ll
have to work at least a bit longer,” Hollande said at a May 16
press conference. After a June 10 meeting with the Finnish Prime
Minister, he said he wanted the pension reform completed by
year-end.  Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault will tomorrow get a report
written by  Yannick Moreau , a former minister of education who
from 2000 to 2006 headed the pension systems oversight body.  The report will lay out ideas for ensuring the financial
viability of the system, ranging from longer working lives and
higher payroll taxes to merging the system for private and
public sector workers. Unions and employers groups have to iron
out proposals over the summer before a law is drafted.  “The discussions will start June 20 and last until
September,” the government’s spokeswoman Najat Vallaud-Belkacem
said yesterday. “Our goal is to guarantee the system is
perennial. The French have concerns, which are legitimate, and
we have to reassure young workers they’ll have a pension when
they retire.”  Tough Environment  Most French people agree the pension system needs to be
fixed, according to  Eric Bonnet , research director at pollsters
BVA Opinion. If history is any guide, that recognition and
support for Hollande’s efforts to address the issue will fade
once concrete measures are proposed, he said.  “Typically in France, as the debate begins, as
demonstrations occur, support wanes,” he said. “Part of
Hollande’s strategy should be to float the harshest ideas at the
start, and in the end come out with a plan that’s less tough.”  Hollande will be seeking to push through pension changes at
a time when his popularity has only just edged up from record
lows. Also, France is grappling with an economy that fell back
into recession earlier this year and record-high joblessness.  France’s largest union, the CGT, warned it will push for
the retirement age for all to be brought down again to 60 and
fight any reduction in pensions, which it said should be
financed through higher charges on companies and the rich.  ‘Strong Proposals’  “The CGT will bring a series of strong proposals to the
table, notably a structural reform of the financing of pensions
through higher salaries, more jobs, and growth,” it said in a
statement yesterday. “It will oppose any modifications to the
current system that consist of extending the length of careers
or reducing pensions.”  Hollande’s effort to shake up the pension system may help
reassure officials in Brussels that France is making progress on
cutting its budget deficit. The European Commission last month
gave France two more years -- to 2015 -- to bring its budget
deficit down to 3 percent of gross domestic product.  One challenge for Hollande is the complexity of the French
system with its built-in advantages for different worker groups.  France has 21 basic pension systems, with names varying
from CNAV for most private sector workers, CNAVPL for
professionals, CAVIMAC for clerics, and CNIEG for electrical
workers.  Multiple Systems  Employers such as the national rail company, the Bank of
France and even the Paris Opera have their own systems, each
with their own rules.  Pensions of public and private workers are calculated by
different formulas.  State pensions account for 87 percent of resources of
people over 65 in France, compared with 75 percent in  Germany ,
50 percent in Britain, 48 percent in  Japan , and 35 percent in
the U.S., according to the Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development.  Hollande’s predecessor Nicolas Sarkozy, defying weeks of
strikes and demonstrations, in 2010 increased the minimum
retirement age to 62 from 60. President Mitterrand in 1981 had
decreased it to 60 from 65.  ‘Efficient Solution’  The loss at the so-called “general regime,” which covers
70 percent of retirees, narrowed to 6 billion euros in 2011 from
8.6 billion in 2010.  Still, it’s forecast to continue making losses unless
economic growth picks up rapidly. It last broke even in 2004.  Labor Minister Michel Sapin said in a parliamentary debate
June 11 that Hollande’s reforms will be the last for some time.  “Over the years, you have presented three or four reforms,
each one presented as the last one that would solve all the
problems,” Sapin said to opposition lawmakers. “Yet nothing is
settled, the deficits are still there. Unlike yours, it will be
a lasting efficient solution.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net 
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  