-- Mondelez, NFL, Marvel, RiksTV: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-06-12T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/mondelez-nfl-marvel-rikstv-intellectual-property.html
Mondelez International Inc. (MDLZ) , the
world’s second-biggest coffee maker, will start selling
Nespresso-compatible capsules across Europe this fall, posing
the sternest competitive challenge yet to the  Nestle SA (NESN)  brand.  Mondelez, based in Deerfield, Illinois, will sell the
knock-off capsules under its Jacobs and Carte Noire brands in
Germany, France, Austria and Switzerland in the second half of
2013, Roland Weening, vice president of strategy, marketing and
innovation, said in an interview in London June 10.  The move brings a deep-pocketed entrant to the fastest-growing part of the $80 billion global coffee market at a time
when Nespresso’s growth has slowed. Nestle, of Vevey,
Switzerland, has filed patent-infringement lawsuits against some
rivals that introduced capsules compatible with Nespresso
machines, yet to date has not been able to stem the flow of
copycat capsules from producers including  D.E Master Blenders
1753. (DE)  That comes as Nestle has said sales growth this year may
be at the low end of its long-term target.  Mondelez wants a bigger slice of the $8 billion single-serve segment, which accounts for 20 percent of the European
coffee market, up from 6 percent in 2006, Weening said. Spun off
from  Kraft Foods (KRFT)  last year, Mondelez has sold its own single-serve beverage machine, Tassimo, since 2005. Weening said the
move into Nespresso-compatible capsules would not “de-prioritize” Tassimo, which has sales approaching $1 billion.  Nestle, the maker of Nescafe and Dolce Gusto, dominates the
European single-serve market with a share of 70 percent,
according to Andreas Von Arx, an analyst at Helvea AG. Nespresso
cultivates an exclusive image for the brand through ads
featuring actor  George Clooney , and boutiques that boast tasting
salons in locations such as Paris’s Champs-Elysees.  That approach has made Nespresso one of Nestle’s fastest-growing and most profitable brands. In 2010, Nespresso accounted
for about 15 percent of Nestle’s growth, Nomura analyst David
Hayes has estimated. This year, the brand may account for about
a 10th of the 5.12 billion-franc ($5.44 billion) increase in
sales expected by analysts.  Nestle’s legal actions, which include lawsuits filed in
several European countries, have so far not stopped rivals from
selling compatible capsules. The most recent ruling came in
April when a Nestle unit lost a patent infringement lawsuit that
sought to block Dualit, a U.K. company, from making capsules for
Nespresso machines.  WARF, Professional Groups Raise Concerns About Fee Sequester  The Wisconsin Alumni Research Foundation, the technology-licensing arm of the University of Wisconsin, has joined with a
number of professional organizations in asking the  U.S. Congress 
to halt the diversion of fees paid by patent applicants.  Their May 28  letter  to congressional leaders said that
$1 billion in user fees has been diverted from their “proper
use” at the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office during the past 20
years. This fee diversion violates the America Invents Act,
which set up a reserve fund to ensure that fees paid to the
patent office would remain at the patent office, according to
the letter.  Letter signatories say they’ve learned that the office of
Management and Budget has overridden this legislation by
sequestering 5 percent of the fees.  In addition to WARF, others who signed on to the letter
include the Advanced Medical Technology Association, the
California Healthcare Institute, the Innovation Alliance, the
International Federation of Professional and Technical
Engineers, CONNECT, the Medical Device Manufacturers
Association, National Treasury Employees Union, National Venture
Capital Association and Patent Office Professional Association.  Rambus Says SK Hynix Licensing Accord Ends Patent Litigation  Rambus Inc. (RMBS)  said it settled its patent litigation with  SK
Hynix Inc. (000660)  and signed a license agreement for the South Korean
memory-chip maker to use its technology.  “This is a milestone agreement for both companies that
puts years of legal disputes behind us and gives us the
opportunity for collaboration,” Rambus Chief Executive Officer
Ron Black said yesterday in a statement.  The five-year agreement with SK Hynix will bring in $12
million a quarter, according to the statement.  A federal judge in  San Jose , California, last month ordered
Rambus to pay $250 million to SK Hynix for destroying documents
in their litigation. Rambus, based in Sunnyvale, California, won
a $349 million judgment on its patent-infringement claims in
2006.  Representatives of SK Hynix didn’t immediately respond
before regular business hours in Seoul to an e-mail seeking
comment on a licensing accord.  Rambus’s cases against SK Hynix, and another related case
against  Micron Technology Inc. (MU) , are over the companies’ use of
interfaces that are part of dynamic random access memory that
acts as the main memory in computers. DRAM is built to industry
standards and is interchangeable by product.  The case is Hynix Semiconductor Inc. v. Rambus Inc.,  00-cv-20905, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  NFL Chief Argues Against Changing Name of Redskins Football Team  National Football League Commissioner  Roger Goodell  sent a
letter to the U.S. House of Representatives Native American
Caucus June 5 explaining why the name of the Washington Redskins
team shouldn’t be changed.  The team franchise began as the Boston Braves in 1932, and
the name was changed to Redskins in 1933 to avoid confusion with
the baseball team of the same name and to honor the coach,
William “Lone Star” Dietz, according to Goodell.  Although Dietz claimed he had a Native American heritage,
that has been disputed,  according to  Indian Country Today, a
Native American publication.  Goodell said in his letter that the Redskins name has
“from its origin represented a positive meaning distinct from
any disparagement that could be viewed in some other context.”  He argues that this positive meaning “is shared by the
overwhelming majority of football fans and Americans generally,
including Native Americans.” The Annenberg Public Policy Center
found that only 10 percent of the Native Americans surveyed
found the name to be objectionable, he said.  Included with his letter were written interviews with Inuit
Chief Steven Dodson and  Robert Green , chief of the Patawomeck
Tribe of Virginia, who said they didn’t find the name to be
objectionable.  Meanwhile, a measure was introduced in the U.S. Congress
that would amend the Trademark Act of 1946 to bar registration
of terms that disparage Native American people. That bill -- H.R.
1278  -- which has been referred to the House Committee on the
Judiciary, specifically lists “redskin” as a term that is
offensive.  According to the patent office database, requests for the
cancellation of the Redskins marks are pending.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Marvel Must Defend ‘Ghost Rider’ Copyright, Court Says  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s Marvel Entertainment must go to trial to
defend against a copyright claim by Gary Friedrich, who claims
he created the comic book character “Ghost Rider,” a
motorcycle-riding superhero with a flaming skull.  Friedrich claims he first came up with the idea for Ghost
Rider in 1968, then assigned his rights to Marvel, which
published the first “Ghost Rider” comic book in 1972.
Friedrich claims in his suit that the rights to Ghost Rider
automatically became his after the initial copyright term
expired in 2000.  Marvell argued that Friedrich assigned his renewal rights
to it in a work-for-hire agreement he signed in 1978. The  U.S.
Court of Appeals  in Manhattan today reversed a lower-court
ruling in favor of Marvel, granting Friedrich a trial on his
claim.  “The agreement is ambiguous and there are genuine disputes
of material fact regarding the parties’ intent to assign renewal
rights in that agreement, the timeliness of Friedrich’s
ownership claim, and the authorship of the work,” U.S. Circuit
Judge  Denny Chin  wrote on behalf of a three-judge panel.  In the suit, Friedrich seeks an unspecified share of the
money made by Marvel on “Ghost Rider.”  In 2007,  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s Columbia Pictures Industries released
a film version of “Ghost Rider,” starring Nicholas Cage and
Eva Mendes. The film took in $228.7 million in worldwide ticket
sales, according to Box Office Mojo. A 2012 sequel, “Ghost
Rider: Spirit of Vengeance,” made $132.6 million.  Jeff Klein, a Marvel spokesman with Dan Klores
Communications, didn’t immediately respond to a voice-mail
message seeking comment on the ruling.  The case is Gary Friedrich Enterprises LLC v. Marvel
Characters Inc., 12-00893, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit (Manhattan).  RiksTV Prevails Over Norwegian Rights Group in Copyright Fight  RiksTV AS, an Oslo-based provider of television services,
prevailed in a copyright dispute with  Norwaco , a Norwegian
rights and royalty collection organization, Broadband TV News
 reported .  Norwaco had claimed that RiksTV was acting as a relay and
was seeking payment from its television channels, according to
Broadband TV News.  If it hadn’t prevailed, RiksTV would have been liable for
multiples of 1 million Norwegian kroner ($173,000), Broadband TV
News reported.  Norwaco was ordered to pay 2.68 million kroner in
litigation costs, the publication reported.  Mississippi AG Wants Google to Address IP Rights Issues  Mississippi’s attorney general invited  Google Inc. (GOOG) 
officials to the national meeting of the National Association of
Attorneys General to address  intellectual property  issues,
AdWeek  reported .  Jim Hood  of Mississippi said Google’s search engine gives
too easy access to infringing content, counterfeit goods and
dangerous drugs, AdWeek reported.  He said that the search engine company blocks access to
child pornography and sites that glorify the Nazi party and
asked why Google doesn’t do the same for websites that provide
pirated content or sell  prescription drugs  without
prescriptions, according to the publication.  Google responded in a statement saying it has taken down
more than 3 million illegal pharmacies and, in its transparency
report, that it responded to 16 million takedown requests
related to copyright issues, AdWeek reported.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in  San Francisco  at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  