-- Hong Kong Democracy May Lead to Conflict With China, Leung Says
-- B y   J o s h u a   F e l l m a n
-- 2013-06-12T22:02:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/hong-kong-democracy-may-lead-to-conflict-with-china-leung-says.html
Increased democracy in Hong Kong may
lead to China’s refusal to appoint a leader elected by the
city’s people, Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying said.  China occasionally has declined to accept officials chosen
by the city, which suggests it reserves the same right over the
chief executive position, Leung said yesterday in an interview
in  New York .  “The possibility exists for Beijing and Hong Kong people
not seeing eye-to-eye on the best candidate to lead Hong Kong,”
Leung said. “This is another issue we need to tackle under One
Country, Two Systems.”  Former Chinese leader  Deng Xiaoping  used this phrase to
describe the administration of Hong Kong after the city’s return
to China in 1997, with the former British colony retaining its
own government under Chinese oversight.  Leung -- the last Hong Kong leader chosen by a committee
comprised of the wealthy, lawmakers and professionals -- is
tasked with paving the way for universal suffrage in 2017. The
city government hasn’t presented a plan yet to achieve this, and
some civic groups have proposed occupying Central, Hong Kong’s
business district, next year if proposals are delayed or less
than fully democratic. Past anti-government demonstrations in
Hong Kong have drawn as many as 500,000 people.  Qiao Xiaoyang, chairman of the law committee of the
National People’s Congress, said on March 24 that consultations
about political reform in  Hong Kong  shouldn’t start until
everybody agrees that the leader of the city “can’t plot to
overthrow the rule of the Chinese Communist Party.”  Vote Concerns  China’s “basic concern is that they do not trust the
people of Hong Kong to use the vote in their hands wisely,”
Anson Chan, Hong Kong’s former chief secretary, said in April.
“That given a vote tomorrow, Hong Kong people will vote for
somebody who will oppose the central government.”  Leung, the city’s third selected leader, said yesterday
that the “One Country, Two Systems” model under which Hong
Kong operates isn’t “natural” and so needs management. Still,
democratic elections are “the popular wish.”  “I want to deliver on that; it’s one of the key things on
my agenda,” Leung said. “We haven’t decided on the timetable.
We will consult with the people. Ultimately it will be by
universal suffrage. It’s just a matter of timing.”  Any action based on the stated plans of the so-called
Occupy Central movement to accelerate democratic change would be
“clearly illegal,” and the government would handle it as it
does any illegal activities, Leung said.  Scrapped Plans  Last year, Leung scrapped plans for national education
classes after students camped out at the government headquarters
for days in opposition. They said the classes would paint a too-favorable picture of Communist Party rule in  China .  Leung took office last July pledging to narrow a record
wealth gap, address housing affordability and clean up the
environment. Since then, his government has raised minimum
wages, allocated more spending to welfare and pledged a HK$10
billion ($1.3 billion) subsidy to replace polluting vehicles.  Still, his popularity is close to a record low. Leung’s
 support rating  was 46.7 on a scale of 0 to 100, according to a
survey of 1,012 people conducted June 3-5 by the University of
Hong Kong’s Public Opinion Program, down from 53.8 when he took
office almost a year ago.  Leung also defended his administration’s track record
yesterday, pointing to progress in reducing poverty through the
increase in the city’s statutory minimum wage and the work of a
commission that’s establishing a poverty line for the first
time.  Hong Kong’s Gini coefficient, a measure of  income
inequality , rose to 0.537 in 2011 from 0.525 in 2001, the
government said last June. The score, a high for the city since
records began in 1971, is above the 0.4 level used by analysts
as a gauge of the potential for social unrest.  Poverty “is one of the key” policy areas the government
focuses on, Leung said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Fellman in New York at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  