-- Hong Kong Bank to Move Trading Floor, Swire CEO Says
-- B y   B i l l   F a r i e s
-- 2013-06-12T20:08:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/hong-kong-bank-to-move-trading-floor-swire-ceo-says.html
Hong Kong banks will start shifting
front-office operations into the Island East district, with one
company moving its trading floor there by early 2014, said
Martin Cubbon, chief executive officer of  Swire (1972)  Properties Ltd.  “It’s already started on a very small scale,” Cubbon said
in an interview at Swire’s Miami offices, without giving more
details. “We’re now going to have traders there. The trading
floor of a big bank will be there.”  Swire, the biggest commercial landlord in the Island East
district, may seek to spend as much as $1.5 billion in the next
seven years to renovate older industrial buildings into  office
space , Cubbon said. The Hong Kong-based company has benefited
from tenants seeking to relocate from the city’s central
business district, where office rents are among the highest in
the world, to other easily accessible neighborhoods.  “Banks want to expand at an affordable pace and that will
compel them to go to places like Tai Koo place,” Cubbon said,
referring to a complex of 10 office towers in the Island East
district.  Swire Properties owns about 10.6 million square feet
(985,000 square meters) of prime office space and 2.4 million
square feet of retail space in  Hong Kong . It has about 6 million
square feet of commercial real estate in mainland  China ,
according to a March statement.  The company’s shares lost 12.6 percent this year through
yesterday, compared with a 5.8 percent decline in the benchmark
 Hang Seng Index .  Chinese Growth  Slower growth in China will have a limited impact on Hong
Kong as investors and consumers seek out business, cultural and
educational opportunities found in few other places in  Asia ,
Cubbon said.  China’s economy  is forecast to expand 7.8 percent
this year, the same as last year and down from 9.3 percent in
2011, according to the median of 53 economist estimates compiled
by Bloomberg.  “There’s a slowdown in growth, not a contraction,” Cubbon
said. “I think people lose sight of that. It’s still growing
reasonably well in Hong Kong. People will keep coming.”  Swire Properties was spun off from  Swire Pacific Ltd. (19)  in
January 2012. Swire Pacific, created as a trading company in
London in 1816, also bottles Coca-Cola in China and supplies
offshore oil rigs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Faries in Miami at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  