-- Mongolia to Cut Mortgage Rates to Support Middle Class Growth
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K o h n
-- 2013-06-12T02:52:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/mongolia-to-cut-mortgage-rates-to-support-middle-class-growth.html
Mongolia’s central bank plans to cut
 interest rates  on mortgages by almost half to 8 percent from
around 15 percent this month, following a new policy approved by
the government to ease financial burdens on the middle class.  The new mortgages require a down payment of 10 percent to
30 percent and must be paid back in 20 years, the Bank of
Mongolia’s Chief Economist Sandagdorj Bold said yesterday in a
telephone interview. The loans are valid for apartments smaller
than 80 square meters (861 square feet), qualified applicants
must have a full-time job, and monthly payments cannot exceed 45
percent of the family income, he said. The policy goes into
effect on June 17.  Mongolia is experiencing double-digit  growth  and new job
opportunities in the  mining industry  and its supply chain are
building a middle class that is in need of housing. The
strongest demand is in Ulaanbaatar, where half the city
residents live in unplanned neighborhoods called “ger
districts,” which lack infrastructure such as running water and
central heating.  “The intended purpose is to support the middle class and
support the long-term sustainable economic growth by increasing
the savings of the middle class,” said Bold, adding that the 8
percent figure is meant to track the Bank of Mongolia’s target
rate for inflation. “It can vary plus or minus one percent
depending on performance of the inflation.”  Bank Lending  Outstanding loans in Mongolia are 900 billion tugrik ($630
million), said Bold. Certain qualified homeowners can try to
refinance their bank loans, if their income falls within a
certain level. Bold called the level a “middle-class income,”
without providing specific figures.  The 14 percent to 16 percent  interest rates  that home
buyers have been willing to carry “shows the real potential of
bank lending in the financial market and the capability of
lending the  mortgage loans ,” said Bold. “This is the reality
of the Mongolian financial system. The market decided the
interest rate.”  The new lower rates represent “a profound positive on
several fronts,” Nick Cousyn, chief operating officer at
Ulaanbaatar-based brokerage BDSec JSC, wrote in a note to
investors. “Fixed housing expense will increase disposable
income, which will be spent in the local economy, growing GDP.”  Growth Prospects  Mongolia’s  gross domestic product  may rise 13 percent this
year, the  World Bank  said in April. Mongolia, a country of
almost 2.9 million people, has some of the world’s biggest
undeveloped mineral reserves, including Oyu Tolgoi, a copper and
gold mine, and Tavan Tolgoi, a coal deposit.  The lower interest rate could help adsorb the increasing
number of vacant units outside the city center and will also
help to modernize the ger districts, said Cousyn. These
neighborhoods, named after the traditional felt-covered yurt
used by nomads, are the main source of smoke in winter that has
made Ulaanbaatar the world’s second-most polluted city,
according to the  World Health Organization .  “The ger districts will begin to disappear as the
government pushes incentives like this, while encouraging
builders to begin to develop the ger areas,” said Cousyn.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Kohn in Ulaanbaatar at 
 mkohn5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net  