-- OPEC Boosts Oil Production to Seven-Month High in May, IEA Says
-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2013-06-12T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/opec-boosts-oil-production-to-seven-month-high-in-may-iea-says.html
OPEC boosted crude oil production to
a seven-month high last month as output increased from Saudi
Arabia, Iran, the United Arab Emirates and  Kuwait , according to
the International Energy Agency.  The 12 members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries pumped 30.89 million barrels a day in May, up from
30.75 million in April, the Paris-based IEA said today in its
monthly oil-market report. That exceeds a target of 30 million
that was reaffirmed at the group’s last meeting on May 31.  “Higher output from the Gulf producers only partially
offset by reduced supplies from Iraq, Libya and Nigeria, where
terrorist and militant activity continued to undermine
production levels,” the IEA said.  OPEC, which supplies about 40 percent of the world’s oil,
estimated that its members produced 30.57 million barrels a day
last month, according to a report by the group yesterday based
on secondary sources. That was the most since November.  Saudi Arabia pumped at the highest in six months at 9.56
million barrels a day in May, rising 220,000 barrels a day from
9.34 million the previous month, the IEA said. Output increased
ahead of the summer, when domestic demand for air-conditioning
peaks, requiring more crude for direct burning in power plants.  Iran ’s output rose 30,000 barrels a day to 2.68 million
barrels a day, even as it faced “logistical and shipping
challenges” from international sanctions, the IEA said.  Nigerian production declined to a six-month low at 1.96
million barrels a day, curbed by theft-related damage to
pipelines, the agency said.  OPEC’s members are  Algeria ,  Angola ,  Ecuador , Iran, Iraq,
Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, United Arab
Emirates and  Venezuela .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  