-- Morgan Stanley’s Gorman Seeks Higher Fixed-Income Trade Returns
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-06-12T20:08:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/morgan-stanley-s-gorman-seeks-higher-fixed-income-trade-returns.html
Morgan Stanley has a plan to boost
return on equity in fixed-income trading above its cost of
equity after four of the five units failed to meet that metric
last year, Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman  said.  The credit-trading unit can earn a 15 percent return and
 interest rates  and foreign-exchange trading can each top 10
percent, Gorman, 54, said today at a conference sponsored by the
New York-based bank. All had returns on equity of more than 5
percent last year, said Gorman, who cited 10 percent as the
firm’s cost of equity.  “We’re not where we want to be with fixed-income and
commodities,” Gorman said. “On the other hand, we think we’ve
made more progress than perhaps has been understood, but this is
a multiyear transformation of a very complex business.”  Commodities, which had a return on equity of less than 5
percent last year, was the one unit for which he didn’t state a
target.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  held talks with Qatar’s sovereign-wealth
fund last year about selling a stake in the business, and Gorman
said the firm is “carefully re-evaluating” the proper
structure for the business.  The U.S. Dodd-Frank Act limits the firm’s ability to
acquire physical commodities, Gorman said. The past two quarters
have been among the worst for commodities since 1995, he said.  “The overall performance of the business can and will be
improved,” Gorman said. “But that said, we continue to explore
strategic structures that may make sense for us.”  The securitized-products unit had a return on equity of
more than 15 percent last year, and that remains the firm’s
target, Gorman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  