-- Moscow Rally Urges Navalny for Mayor as Putin Draws Rival Crowd
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y
-- 2013-06-12T13:43:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/moscow-rally-urges-navalny-for-mayor-as-putin-draws-rival-crowd.html
Thousands of anti-government
protesters marched through the center of Russia’s capital as
President  Vladimir Putin  gathered supporters across the river
and took charge of his latest political movement.  Activist Alexei Navalny led the opposition rally, which
police said was attended by 6,000 people, with participants
urging his candidacy for Moscow’s mayor. Putin was formally
elected as leader of the All-Russia People’s Front, a group he
created after popularity waned for his ruling  United Russia ,
dubbed ‘The party of scoundrels and thieves’ by Navalny.  “Only we’ll decide how Russia develops,” Putin said today
at a meeting of the People’s Front, which he created in 2011.
“I believe in our success, in our victory.”  Navalny, who’s being tried on fraud charges he calls
politically motivated, plans to run against Putin ally  Sergei Sobyanin  in September’s snap ballot for Moscow’s mayor. Today’s
protest comes amid a crackdown on the opposition, with more than
two dozen activists on trial after joining a rally last May that
involved violent clashes with police.  Demonstrators chanted slogans including “Russia without
Putin” and “Free political prisoners.” Nine activists from
the banned Left Front were detained, according to Moscow police.
About 15,000 people attended, TV Dozhd cited Alexander
Verkhovsky, head of the Sova research center, as saying.  “I used to come to show the authorities that they should
answer to us -- now i come to the protests to show myself that
I’m not the only one who thinks  Russia  needs change,” said
Evgenia Ushakova, 41, from Moscow, who supports Navalny’s
mayoral candidacy.  Svetlana Rybachenko, 43, said her daughter Anastasia fled
Russia last year after being targeted by the authorities
following the May demonstration.  “When your own daughter is on one of the posters, you
realize the state can come for anyone,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  