-- Most Withdrawals of ’13 Ignore History of July Gain: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-06-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/most-withdrawals-of-13-ignore-history-of-july-gain-muni-credit.html
Mutual-fund investors pulling the
most funds since December from the $3.7 trillion municipal
market are creating an opportunity for buyers of individual
local bonds as tax-exempt yields reach a 15-month high.  Municipal funds saw $1.5 billion of withdrawals last week,
the largest outflow of 2013, Lipper US Fund Flows data show.
Speculation the  Federal Reserve  will reduce its bond buying has
pushed 10-year muni yields to the  highest  since March 2012. Yet
sellers are ignoring more than two decades of history. Munis
have gained in 21 of the last 24 years in July, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch data show.  The higher yields are attractive for direct buyers of tax-exempt debt, who purchase through brokers rather than funds and
control almost 45 percent of the market, said Ed Reinoso, chief
executive officer of Castleton Partners. Such investors tend to
hold until maturity for the tax-exempt income and are less
focused on price swings, he said.  “If you buy bonds directly, you’re little affected by all
of this,” said New York-based Reinoso, who manages $250 million
of fixed-income for individuals. “At the very least, it’s a
good time to hedge.”  Payment Wave  Muni investors in June, July and August are set to get $128
billion of principal and coupon payments, $16 billion more than
the same period last year, according to Bank of America. In May,
munis lost 1.3 percent, the most since December, when the local-debt market fell on speculation lawmakers were about to limit
the  tax exemption  on municipal debt.  This time around, the drop in tax-free funds’ net-asset
values is spurring withdrawals, Reinoso said. In contrast,
holders of individual bonds tend to stay the course, he said.  Households are the biggest buyers of munis, holding $1.66
trillion as of March 31, Federal Reserve data show. Direct
individual buyers added $1 billion to their holdings in the
year’s first three months, the first quarterly increase in two
years. Mutual funds are the second-largest holders, with a
record  $644 billion .  Yields on state and city debt climbed the past five weeks,
the longest stretch since April 2011, following a jump in
Treasury yields. Yields on top-rated munis due in 10 years rose
to  2.21 percent  yesterday, up from about 1.7 percent in early
May, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Discount Distress  As yields climbed, the $3.6 billion iShares S&P National
AMT-Free Municipal Bond Fund, the largest exchange-traded fund
tracking munis, sold last week at about  1.4 percent  below its
net asset value. That’s the biggest discount in almost two
years, Bloomberg data show. Its price touched  $106.70 (MUB)  yesterday,
the lowest since December 2011, before rebounding to $107.56.  The higher tax-exempt yields will attract individuals,
analysts led by  George Friedlander , chief muni strategist at
Citigroup Inc. in New York, wrote in a June 7 report.  Yields on some bonds “may almost be at the level where
substantial amounts of cash could begin to be put to work,”
Friedlander said in the report.  Investors will also have more cash to reinvest than
available supply. Principal and interest payments that
bondholders are set to receive in June, July and August will
surpass issuance by about $40 billion, according to Citigroup.  Rutgers Leads  Localities, led by a borrowing from  New Jersey ’s Rutgers
University set to price this week, have scheduled  $9.2 billion 
of long-term debt offerings in the next 30 days, the most in
three weeks, Bloomberg data show.  The supply may push yields above those on  U.S. debt , said
Chris Mauro, head of muni strategy at RBC Capital Markets LLC in
New York. Yields on benchmark 10-year munis have  exceeded  those
on corresponding Treasuries on all but one day since May. The
ratio of the yields is about 101 percent. The higher the figure,
the cheaper munis are in comparison. The ratio has averaged
about 92 percent since 2001.  “As we continue to back up here, there’s no question that
even compared to stocks, munis will start to become an
attractive alternative again,” Mauro said.  For investors in the highest tax bracket, 39.6 percent, the
benchmark 10-year muni yield equals 3.66 percent on a taxable
basis. That compares with a  2.09 percent  dividend yield for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of shares, Bloomberg data show. Ten-year Treasuries yield about 2.2 percent.  Tax-exempts are proving a safer destination amid the
selloff than other fixed-income areas. While tax-exempts have
lost about 0.4 percent this year, federal and corporate bonds
have lost about 1.5 percent.  Tax-exempts are “a core part of people’s investment
portfolio,” Mauro said. With the redemption wave, “there’s no
question that a portion of that money is going to make its way
back into munis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  