-- Most Emerging Stocks Decline as Indonesia, Thai Shares Slump
-- B y   H a r r y   S u h a r t o n o
-- 2013-06-12T06:46:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/most-emerging-stocks-decline-as-indonesia-thai-shares-slump.html
Most emerging-market stocks fell,
led by Indonesian and Thai companies as global investors
extended sales of the nations’ equities. The rupiah and baht
weakened against the dollar.  PT Bumi Resources (BUMI)  tumbled 5.5 percent, dragging the Jakarta
Composite Index to a four-month low. Advanced Info Service Plc
sank to a two-month low as Thailand’s benchmark gauge slid to
the lowest level in 20 weeks. Hyundai Merchant Marine Co., which
does business in North Korea, plunged 15 percent in Seoul after
the communist regime called off high-level talks with South
Korea. The rupiah and baht fell at least 0.3 percent.  About 184 stocks dropped and 64 rose in the MSCI Emerging
Markets Index, which was little changed at 954.28 as of 2:42 p.m.
in  Hong Kong . Global funds reduced holdings of local equities in
South Korea, Indonesia, Thailand and  Taiwan  by a combined $1.22
billion yesterday, based on exchange data compiled by Bloomberg.
Stocks have slumped since Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on May 22 the central bank could consider paring
stimulus if the U.S. labor market improves.  “There’s no place to hide,” Fadlul Imansyah, a  fund
manager  at PT CIMB-Principal Asset Management, said by phone in
Jakarta. “The increasing concerns over the possibility of the
Fed scaling back have prompted foreign investors to leave
emerging markets.”  The Jakarta Composite fell 1.3 percent, the biggest decline
in  Asia . The gauge is headed for the longest losing streak since
May 2012. Bumi Resources, Indonesia’s biggest coal producer,
sank to the lowest level since February 2009. Thailand’s SET
Index lost 1.2 percent as Advanced Info sank 3.2 percent.
Markets in China, Hong Kong, Taiwan and the  Philippines  are
closed for holidays.  Biggest Declines  Gauges of consumer-discretionary companies and health-care
stocks in MSCI’s developing-nation index slid at least 0.3
percent, the most among 10  industry groups .  The  emerging-markets  measure has dropped 9.6 percent this
year, compared with a 9.4 percent gain in the MSCI World Index.
The developing-nation gauge  trades  at 9.8 times projected 12-month earnings, compared with the MSCI World’s 13.5 times, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Greece became the first developed nation to be cut to
emerging-market status by MSCI Inc. after the local  stock index 
plunged 83 percent since 2007. Qatar and the  United Arab
Emirates  were raised to emerging markets, while Morocco was cut
to a frontier market, MSCI said yesterday.  Benchmark gauges in South Korea, Malaysia slid at least 0.6
percent. India’s S&P BSE Sensex fell 0.7 percent after the
nation’s factory production lagged estimates and retail
inflation accelerated.  Rupiah Forwards  Indonesia’s rupiah forwards strengthened after the central
bank raised the rate it pays lenders on overnight deposits in a
preemptive step to maintain monetary stability. The rupiah
weakened for a fourth day. The baht fell beyond 31 per dollar
for the first time since September.  Hyundai Merchant, the biggest shareholder of Hyundai Asan
Corp., which manages a resort in Mount Geumgang in  North Korea ,
fell the most since November 2010.  North Korea unilaterally called off the highest-level talks
since Kim Jong Un took power in protest over the rank of South
Korea’s proposed delegate, the South’s Unification Ministry said.
Delegations from both sides were to meet to discuss reopening
the jointly-run Gaeseong industrial zone and a luxury resort.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Harry Suhartono in Jakarta at 
 hsuhartono@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  