-- House Panel Adds Funds From Copters to Sex-Assault Office
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-06-12T17:14:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/house-panel-adds-funds-from-copters-to-sex-assault-office.html
The House Appropriations Committee
today approved a Pentagon budget with $98.3 billion for weapons,
less than the Pentagon’s request, while adding money for
Blackhawk helicopters made by  United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  and
Patriot missile interceptors from  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)   The committee approved the weapons request as part of a
$512 billion defense  plan  for the fiscal year beginning Oct. 1.
The budget would provide an additional $85.8 billion for war
spending, primarily in  Afghanistan , $6.4 billion more than the
Pentagon’s request.  While the $98.3 billion for equipment procurement and
upgrades is $750 million less than proposed, it would fully fund
the Pentagon’s request to buy 29 more F-35 jets, the military’s
costliest weapons program, from Bethesda, Maryland-based
Lockheed.  The legislation includes $129.6 billion to provide pay for
1.3 million active-duty troops and 833,700 reserves, funding a
1.8 percent pay raise instead of the 1 percent the Pentagon
requested.  In a move aimed at stemming what lawmakers and military
official call a growing crisis of sexual assaults, the bill
would add $25 million to bolster operations of the Pentagon’s
Sexual Assault Prevention and Response office.  “The committee is outraged by the pervasive problems of
sexual assault,” the panel said in its draft report. “Sexual
assault is not just an issue in the military; it is an
epidemic.”  Navy Ships  The bill provides $15 billion for eight Navy ships,
including fully funding two SSN-774 attack submarines made by
 Huntington Ingalls Industries Inc. (HII)  and  General Dynamics Corp. (GD) ,
and money to buy an additional four Littoral Combat Ships, two
each from Lockheed and  Austal Ltd. (ASB)   Among the research funds approved is $785 million for
continued development of a replacement for the Ohio-class
ballistic missile submarine, $592 million for the Army’s Ground
Combat Vehicle program and $379 million for the  Air Force ’s new
penetrating bomber.  The measure includes $2.2 billion to buy Blackhawk
helicopters made by  United Technologies ’ Sikorsky Aircraft unit.
The bill would provide for 37 MH-60S/R helicopters and 73
UH-60s, eight more of the latter model than the Pentagon
requested.  The panel added $200 million to the Pentagon request in
order to buy more Lakota helicopters made by European
Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co.’s North American unit as well as
$200 million extra for more of Lockheed’s Patriot MSE Missile
interceptors.  The request also has an extra $100 million to upgrade
Hummer vehicles made by AM General LLC and used by the Army
National Guard.  The bill would provide $220 million for  Israel ’s Iron Dome
anti-rocket program. For the first time, the Pentagon included
money for the system in its annual budget request instead of
adding it months later.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  