-- U.S. House Bill Reignites Rape-Pregnancy Controversy
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2013-06-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/house-bill-reignites-rape-pregnancy-debate.html
U.S. Representative Trent Franks
reignited last year’s political campaign uproar about pregnancy
and rape by questioning yesterday whether many sexual-assault
victims who become pregnant seek late-term abortions.  Democrats pounced on the  Arizona  Republican’s comments
during the  House Judiciary Committee ’s consideration of his
legislation, H.R. 1797, that would ban all abortions after the
20th week of pregnancy.  They later distributed a  video clip  of Franks stating that
“the incidence of rape resulting in pregnancy is very low”
during a discussion about an amendment to the bill that would
have provided an exemption for victims of rape or incest.  During the debate, Democratic Representative Zoe Lofgren of
 California  called Franks's remark “astonishing,” saying the
“the idea that the Republican men on this committee can tell
the women of America that they have to carry to term the product
of rape is outrageous.”  Approval of the bill by the Republican-majority Judiciary
Committee, on a 20-12 vote, “provides the Democrats with an
abundance of message opportunities to solidify their very strong
position with female voters,” Ross Baker, a political science
professor at Rutgers University in New Brunswick, New Jersey,
said in a telephone interview.  Franks’s comments had immediate political reverberations in
 Massachusetts , where Gabriel Gomez, the Republican candidate in
a June 25 special election for a Senate seat, sought yesterday
to disassociate himself from the remarks.  “He’s a moron and he proves that ‘stupid’ has no specific
political affiliation,” Gomez told  ABC News . He is running
against Democratic Representative Ed Markey for the seat
previously held by Secretary of State John Kerry.  Distorted Meaning  Franks accused Democrats of distorting his meaning.
“Unfortunately, I perhaps assisted a little bit in the
phraseology that allowed them to do it,” he told reporters.  The six-term lawmaker said that during the debate on a
Democratic amendment to provide an exception for rape victims,
he was trying to state that “pregnancies from rape that result
in the mother deciding to abort after the sixth month begins are
very, very rare.”  The Democratic amendment failed on a vote of 13-17.  House Republican leaders could bring the bill to the floor
for a vote as soon as next week. Franks said he spoke with
members of the House leadership and received assurances that
“they are not persuaded by the false characterization of my
comments.”  All 23 Republicans on the Judiciary Committee are men, a
fact that Democrats sought to exploit as they reacted to the
vote. Five of the panel’s 17 Democrats are women.  ‘All-Male’  “There is no more eloquent a message to the women of
America than the sight of an all-male Republican panel advancing
a bill to restrict women’s health choices,” Drew Hammill, a
spokesman for House Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi of
California, said in a statement after the panel approved the
measure,  The landmark 1973 U.S. Supreme Court decision in Roe v.
Wade struck down many state laws limiting abortion. Subsequent
decisions have said that states may restrict abortions of
fetuses that would be viable outside the mother’s womb.  Comments about abortion by Republican candidates last year
helped doom the party’s chances of winning control of the U.S.
Senate.  Republican  Richard Mourdock  lost the Indiana Senate race to
Democrat Joe Donnelly after arguing in a debate that “even when
life begins in that horrible situation of rape” it “is
something that God intended to happen.”  ‘Legitimate Rape’  Another Republican Senate candidate, Representative Todd Akin of Missouri, lost his bid to unseat Democratic Senator
Claire McCaskill after saying that “legitimate rape” rarely
leads to pregnancy.  Also, Illinois Republican Joe Walsh lost his House seat
after saying that abortion is “absolutely” not medically
necessary to save a pregnant woman’s life.  “There’s no such exception as ‘life of the mother,’”
Walsh told reporters after a debate. “And as far as ‘health of
the mother,’ same thing, with advances in science and
technology. ‘Health of the mother’ has become a tool for
abortions any time, under any reason.”  One of former President George W. Bush’s top advisers,
Karen Hughes, wrote in a Nov. 9 opinion column in Politico that
“if another Republican man says anything about rape other than
it is a horrific, violent crime, I want to personally cut out
his tongue.”  She added that the “college-age daughters of many of my
friends voted for Obama because they were completely turned off
by Neanderthal comments like the suggestion of ‘legitimate
rape.’”  In an interview after yesterday’s vote, Lofgren called the
measure an “extreme” one that is “destined to go nowhere.”  Last year, a bill that would have limited abortions in the
District of Columbia failed on a vote of 220-154, short of the
two-thirds majority needed for passage.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  