-- Toyota to Meet U.S. Prius Goal as Economy Gains, Lentz Says
-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 2013-06-12T09:03:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/toyota-to-meet-u-s-prius-goal-as-economy-gains-lentz-says-2-.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  said it will meet
the sales goal for its Prius model in the U.S. after saying in
April that the world’s biggest carmaker may adjust the target as
declining gas prices sap demand.  “We’re on target for sales of 250,000 units of the Prius
family,”  Jim Lentz , Toyota’s North American chief executive
officer, said today in Nagoya City,  Japan . “The  U.S. economy 
finally seems to be improving.”  Toyota’s U.S. deliveries have missed analyst estimates for
four straight months and its sales gain in the five months ended
May trailed behind industrywide growth amid demand for pickup
trucks. U.S. automakers including  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Ford
Motor Co. (F)  have gained 1.2 points of market share this year as
sales continue on a pace for the best year since 2007.  “Competition is very fierce in the market this year, and
with relatively low gasoline prices, demand for models such as
Toyota’s Prius may not be very strong,” said Yoshiaki Kawano, a
Tokyo-based analyst at industry researcher IHS Automotive. “The
new Corolla due later this year will be a chance for Toyota to
boost sales.”  Industrywide deliveries have increased 7.3 percent to 6.42
million units through May this year, according to  Woodcliff
Lake , New Jersey-based industry researcher Autodata Corp.
 Toyota’s sales  rose 5.2 percent to 913,556 units in the same
period. It’s targeting deliveries of 2.2 million units in the
U.S. this year, a 5.6 percent increase from a year earlier.  Toyota is also seeing “good” pickup truck demand in the
U.S. amid “the best  consumer confidence  in the past five
years,” Lentz said.  Toyota expects sales of 250,000 pickup trucks this year, an
increase of 2.8 percent from a year earlier. Pickup demand will
increase to about 2 million units industrywide, from about 1.94
million units a year earlier, Lentz estimates.  Toyota fell 1.8 percent to 5,860 yen at the close of Tokyo
trading. The shares have gained 46 percent this year, compared
with the 28 percent advance in the  benchmark   Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock
Average.  Fuel Prices  While sales of its Prius hybrid vehicles last month were
the best in a year, Toyota in April said deliveries of the
gasoline-and-electric models may not reach a target for growth
in 2013 after falling 8.4 percent in the first quarter.  “Despite what the actual gasoline prices are, lower demand
for fuel-efficient models such as the Prius show that consumers
are going for  pickup trucks  on an assumption for gas prices to
remain low,” said Koichi Sugimoto, a Tokyo-based auto analyst
at BNP Paribas SA.  Lexus Sales  The carmaker also expects to introduce the IS models for
its luxury Lexus brand in the U.S. in the next few months, Lentz
said today.  Lexus sales have increased 10 percent to 97,060 units this
year in the U.S., the biggest market for the premium models.
That puts the luxury brand ahead of its target to sell 260,000
units, or 6.5 percent more vehicles from a year earlier, in the
market this year. Still, Toyota’s luxury brand lags behind
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG and Daimler AG’s Mercedes-Benz.  “Setting aside what the company’s target for  Lexus  sales
is, it would be great if Lexus can really regain its momentum
and outperform BMW in volume sales,” BNP Paribas’s Sugimoto
said.  In 2012, BMW and Mercedes-Benz outsold the Lexus brand for
a second straight year in the U.S. BMW sales increased 8.2
percent to 113,357 units in the five months ended May, while
Mercedes-Benz led the U.S. luxury-auto market with 117,535
vehicles, up 11 percent.  Toyota also plans to increase the portion of cars made in
the U.S. for sale in the country to 75 percent from the current
70 percent level, Lentz said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  