-- Pandora Buys Radio Station to Qualify for Rivals’ Terms
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-06-12T21:17:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/pandora-buys-radio-station-to-qualify-for-rivals-terms.html
Pandora Media Inc. (P) , the biggest
online radio service, bought a station in  South Dakota  to gain
the same access to music and rates as terrestrial competitors.  Buying KXMZ-FM in Rapid City qualifies Pandora for the same
rights and prices enjoyed by competitors such as  Clear Channel
Communications Inc. (CCMO) ,  CBS Corp. (CBS)  and  Cumulus Media Inc. (CMLS) , Pandora’s
assistant general counsel, Christopher Harrison, said in a
 letter  posted on TheHill.com., a Washington news website. The
acquisition may lead to cost savings of less than 1 percent of
revenue, Pandora said yesterday in a regulatory  filing . Terms of
the deal weren’t disclosed.  Pandora pays agencies such as the  American Society of
Composers, Authors and Publishers  and Broadcast Music Inc.,
which represent artists and rights holders, to use songs for its
service. The company has been seeking better terms in court and
in Congress. Competitors such as Clear Channel’s iHeart Radio
receive lower rates from Ascap and BMI because they’re owned by
radio broadcasters, Pandora said.  Station owners and their Web-based properties such as Clear
Channel’s iHeart Radio benefit from a January 2012 agreement
between their negotiating body, the Radio Music License
Committee, Ascap and BMI, according to Pandora, which has failed
to obtain the same terms.  “This acquisition allows us to qualify for the same RMLC
license as our competitors,” including 16 of the 20 biggest
Internet radio services, Harrison wrote.  ‘Personalized Experience’  Pandora, based in Oakland,  California , is set to begin
arbitration with the  music industry  at the end of the year to
set rates that would start in 2016. The company supports federal
legislation that would lead to lower royalty payments, and it
filed a lawsuit in November 2012 seeking lower fees from Ascap.  Pandora and other online radio services paid 0.11 cent per
song in 2012, a fee that will rise to 0.14 cent in 2015.  Sony/ATV Music Publishing and other music publishers have
sought higher content rates from Pandora than from  radio
stations , based on its exclusion from the RMLC deal, according
to the company.  Pandora is attempting to underpay rights holders with the
radio-station purchase, Ascap said in a  statement  on its
website.  Usage Caps  “Internet and traditional AM/FM radio services are very
different businesses with different formats,” Ascap said.  Pandora, which has more than 200 million registered users,
will broadcast a “personalized experience to the community” in
Rapid City, where more than 42,000 residents already use its
service, according to its letter.  Pandora’s content costs increase with each new user.
Content, the company’s biggest expense, totaled $82.9 million in
the quarter ended in April, or about 66 percent of revenue.  The purchase of KXMZ-FM follows Apple Inc.’s announcement
this week of a competing Web-radio service. Pandora has tied
other measures to contain its royalty costs, including a 40-hour
monthly listening cap on mobile devices instituted this year.  Pandora fell 1.6 percent to $15.10 at the close of  trading 
in  New York . The shares have climbed 64 percent this year,
compared with a 13 percent gain for the Russell 1000 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  