-- Paris Saint-Germain Wants Villas-Boas: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-06-12T10:20:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/paris-saint-germain-wants-villas-boas-soccer-roundup.html
the following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the web.  PSG Wants Villas-Boas  Paris Saint-Germain wants Tottenham’s Andre Villas-Boas to
replace  Carlo Ancelotti  as manager, the  Daily Mail  reported.  Qatar-backed PSG is one of the world’s richest clubs and
Villas-Boas has emerged as the leading candidate to take over
there if Ancelotti moves, as expected, to Real  Madrid , the Mail
added.  Ronaldo for Monaco?  Monaco may make a world-record 100 million-euro ($133
million) bid for Real Madrid’s Cristiano Ronaldo, the
Independent reported.  The Portuguese, who was previously at Manchester United,
has two years left on his contract at Madrid and  is
“disillusioned” with life thereafter four seasons, the
newspaper said.  Newcastle Targets Bent  Newcastle is interested in signing Aston Villa striker
 Darren Bent , who is out of favor at the Midlands club, the  Daily
Mail  reported.  He might be available for 6 million pounds ($9.4 million),
although matching his current 70,000 pound-a-week deal might be
difficult for Newcastle, the newspaper said.  Fabregas Stays  Cesc Fabregas has ruled out a return to the Premier League
and wants to compete for a first-team spot at Barcelona,  the Sun 
reported.  His former club Arsenal and  Manchester United  were ready to
have a 40 million-pound battle over the midfielder, the Sun
added.  Barton Payoff?  Joey Barton  wants a 3.5 million-pound payoff to leave
Queens Park Rangers,  the Sun  reported.  Barton spent last season on loan at Marseille and wants
to make the move permanent. He still has two years left on a
70,000 pound-a-week deal at QPR, which was relegated from the
Premier League at the end of last season.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  