-- Pele Appeals to Brazilians to Stop Booing National Soccer Team
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-06-12T17:12:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/pele-appeals-to-brazilians-to-stop-booing-national-soccer-team.html
Brazilian soccer great Pele asked
his countrymen today to stop jeering the national team a year
before the country hosts the World Cup.  Brazil , the record five-time world champion, has fallen to
 No. 22  in the world, its lowest standing ever in global
governing body FIFA’s national team rankings, and fans have
voiced criticism during recent exhibition games.  Brazil on June 15 opens the Confederations Cup, a two-week
warm-up tournament. The eight-team event is the only competitive
soccer Brazil will play before opening the World Cup on June 12,
2014.  “Let’s not boo the Brazil national team,” Pele said at an
event to unveil the official countdown clock for the World Cup
at Copacabana beach in Rio de Janeiro.  “We are still starting,
we still have one year to go. This is just the kickoff.”  Fans have jeered the national team in two of its last three
games, a pair of 2-2 draws against Chile and  England . In the
England match, played at the Maracana stadium, the venue for the
final game of the World Cup, national team coach Luiz Felipe Scolari was barraged with cries of ’’donkey’’ from the
bleachers. Brazil three days ago defeated 1998 world champion
 France  3-0 in  Porto Alegre .  Pele, the only player to win three World Cups, said the
current squad has enough talented players but hasn’t yet gelled
as a unit. He blamed former coach Mano Menezes, who was fired
earlier this year, for failing to build a solid base. He said
Scolari, who coached Brazil to its last World Cup success in
2002, and his assistant, Carlos Alberto Pereira, coach of the
1994 winning team, are capable of turning things around.  Organized Team  “They are coaches who have a lot of experience,” said
Pele. “This Confederations Cup will be good for that because we
have individuals but what we do need is an organized team which
plays together.”  Brazil opens its Confederations Cup against  Japan  in
Brasilia before playing  Mexico  and four-time world champion
 Italy . Pele said victory against Asian champion Japan, which
last week became the first team to qualify for the World Cup,
isn’t guaranteed.  “Japan isn’t a traditional football country, one of the
big names like England or France,” Pele said.  “Everyone
thinks it will be easy but Japan has a great national team, a
team that’s been playing together for two years.”  Pele also spoke about Neymar, who earlier this month left
Santos, the club where Pele spent much of his career, for
Barcelona in a 57 million-euro ($76 million) transfer. Neymar,
21, leads Brazil’s attack.  “I think it was very good for Neymar to have this
opportunity to go to Barcelona,” Pele said. He added the
striker had chances to move to England’s Premier League earlier
in his career but wouldn’t have been suited to English soccer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja at the Copacabana in  Rio de Janeiro  at
   tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  