-- Pfizer Reaches $2.15 Billion Protonix Accord With Teva
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n ,   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-06-12T16:36:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/pfizer-gets-2-15-billion-settlement-from-teva-sun-on-protonix.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) 
and Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. will pay $2.15 billion to
 Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and a partner to settle litigation over unauthorized
sales of the heartburn drug Protonix.  Pfizer, the world’s largest drugmaker, will receive
64 percent of the settlement while partner Takeda Pharmaceutical
Co. will get the rest, New York-based Pfizer said in a statement
today. Teva will pay $1.6 billion, including $800 million this
year and the rest in 2014, according to a company statement. Sun
said it will pay $550 million.  “We are pleased with today’s settlement, which recognizes
the validity and value of the innovation that led to Protonix,”
Amy Schulman, Pfizer’s general counsel, said in the statement.  Teva and  Sun (SUNP)  began selling generic versions in 2008 only to
lose a challenge to a patent on the medicine two years later.
Pfizer’s Wyeth unit was seeking $2.7 billion from Teva and Sun,
saying it was entitled to a share of the revenue from those
generic versions, as well as compensation for sales it lost to
the copycat.  A trial over Pfizer’s claims began June 3 in federal court
in Newark, New Jersey.  “We are pleased to put this matter behind us as we
continue to focus on delivering safe and affordable medicines to
patients around the world,” Richard Egosi, Teva’s chief legal
officer, said in the statement.  $930 Million Charge  Teva said it will take a $930 million charge in the second
 quarter  beyond the $670 million provision recorded in its 2012
financial statements. The company said it may have as much as
$560 million of net insurance coverage for the settlement.  “The settlement size had been largely expected by the
market, so from an investor perspective the event is not so
significant,” said Ori Hershkovitz, a partner at Sphera Funds
Management Ltd., a Tel Aviv-based health-care hedge fund. It
doesn’t hold Teva shares.  The case marked a rare instance in which a brand-drug
company was seeking compensation for the early release of a copy
of its medicines. Typically, generic-drug makers wait until the
patents expire or they get a court ruling that clears the way.
Teva has undertaken more than a dozen such at-risk market
entries, betting that it would eventually win the case. It
usually did.  Widely Available  Protonix sales reached $1.9 billion in 2007, and then fell
58 percent to $806 million in 2008, after Teva, based in Petach
Tikva,  Israel , began selling its generic version. Mumbai-based
Sun entered the market in January 2008, a month after Teva. Sun
was ordered to stop in 2010. The patent term ended in January
2011, and generic versions are widely available.  At the trial in Newark, Pfizer attorney William Lee told
jurors that Teva and Sun were unwilling to wait until the patent
expired on Protonix before they began selling their cheaper
copies.  “They decided to take a risk,” said Lee in his opening
statement on June 4. By launching generic sales, the market for
branded versions of the drug was “destroyed,” he said.  “Teva and Sun in 2007 had a choice,” said Lee of
WilmerHale LLP in  Boston . “They couldn’t wait until January
2011 and launch. If they had, we wouldn’t be here today.”  The generic sales by Teva and Sun “put billions of dollars
in their pockets as a result of the patent infringement,” Lee
said.  It took “20 years to invent this product, bring it to
market in the U.S., to have it be a success for the patients,”
Lee said. “It took about a month to destroy that investment.”  ‘Infringement’  The risk didn’t pay off, Lee said, because “the decision
was that all of those millions of tablets, all of those billions
in sales are now admitted by them to be infringement.”  Not all generic sales went to Teva and Sun. Wyeth began
selling Protonix under its chemical name to undercut Teva and
Sun sales. Sun argued that, because of that authorized generic,
Pfizer and a Takeda unit were entitled to no more than
$106 million in compensation, according to a court filing.  “This settlement now culminates the ongoing litigation,”
Sun said in a statement.  Protonix, whose chemical name is pantoprazole sodium, is a
proton pump inhibitor that reduces the secretion of stomach
acids and is used to treat the effects of gastroesophageal
reflux disease. Pfizer acquired Protonix in 2009 as part of its
$68 billion purchase of Wyeth.  Infringement Conceded  Sun and Teva conceded in court that they infringed the
patent. In April 2010, a federal jury in  Newark  rejected
arguments by the companies that the patent covered an obvious
variation of earlier patented compounds in the same family as
Protonix.  Teva’s American depositary receipts fell 1 percent to
$39.42 at 12:09 p.m. in  New York   trading . Each ADR is equal to
one ordinary share. The drugmaker gained 2.6 percent in the 12
months before today. Pfizer rose 0.5 percent to $28.57.  The case is Altana Pharma AG v. Teva Pharmaceuticals USA
Inc., 04-cv-02355, U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey
(Newark).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in federal court in Newark, New Jersey, at +1-   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Decker in  Washington  at 
 Sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Bernard Kohn at   bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 