-- Pimco to HSBC See Opportunity in Record-Low Indian Rupee
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s   a n d   Y i d i   Z h a o
-- 2013-06-12T05:22:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/pimco-to-hsbc-see-opportunity-in-record-low-indian-rupee.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.
and HSBC Global Asset Management see opportunity in the  Indian
rupee ’s slide to a record low.  The rupee’s 22 percent slump in the past two years makes it
attractive from a valuation perspective, according to Pimco.
HSBC Global attributes the slide to 58.985 per dollar this week
mainly to the greenback’s global strength and says monetary and
fiscal policies will support growth in  Asia ’s No. 3 economy.  “We are still positive on the debt over the medium term,”
Gordon Rodrigues, a Hong Kong-based investment director at  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA) ’s fund management arm, which managed $428 billion
of global assets as of March 31, said in a June 10 e-mail
interview. “Rate cuts should be positive for equity markets,
which will help capital flows. We see this as an opportunity to
scale in.”  The rupee will offer dollar-based investors a 9.82 percent
gain by the end of the year, second only to the 10.79 percent
for the South African rand, according to Bloomberg surveys of
strategists and prevailing  interest rates . The currency has
weakened 6.7 percent this quarter and is Asia’s worst performer.  ‘Market Stress’  “It’s among the higher-yielding currencies globally,”
Ramin Toloui, Pimco’s Singapore-based global co-head of  emerging
markets  portfolio management, said in an e-mail interview
yesterday. “Like all higher-yielding currencies, it is
vulnerable during periods of market stress. There are risks
associated with political outlook and policy outlook, but we
believe that investors get compensated for those risks.”  The rupee pared losses yesterday to close at 58.3950 after
 Raghuram Rajan , the finance ministry’s top adviser, said the
government is considering options including an overseas bond
sale to spur fund inflows. It rose 0.4 percent to 58.1825 as of
10:38 a.m. in Mumbai today.  The  Reserve Bank of India  probably sold dollars yesterday
to curb the rupee’s slide, said J. Moses Harding, executive vice
president at  IndusInd Bank Ltd. (IIB)  The central bank doesn’t comment
on daily market movements, Alpana Killawala, Mumbai-based
spokeswoman for the RBI, said by telephone.  Global Funds  Global funds have sold more Indian debt than they bought
each day since  holdings  touched a record $38.5 billion on May
21, leaving the rupee more vulnerable to an unprecedented
current-account deficit. Ownership now stands at $35.2 billion.
Speculation that the U.S. Federal Reserve will taper asset
purchases as the world’s largest economy recovers has lowered
the premium on Indian bonds over  U.S. Treasuries .  Rupee-denominated notes offer a premium of 508 basis points
over comparable  U.S. government debt , and the spread touched 496
on May 28, the lowest in at least a year. The rate on the 7.16
percent notes due May 2023 fell three basis points to 7.28
percent today, according to the RBI’s trading system.  Debt funds focused on developing nations had the biggest
weekly outflows since September 2011, with investors pulling out
a net $1.51 billion in the period ended June 5, Morgan Stanley
said in June 6 report, citing EPFR Global data.  “At some stage sentiment will stabilize,”  Jonathan Cavenagh , a currency strategist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in
 Singapore , said in a telephone interview yesterday. “Even if
the Fed starts to taper, they will take some time to normalize
interest rates.”  ‘Long Time’  Barclays Plc recommends selling  India ’s sovereign bonds in
the wake of the currency slump and global sell-off in emerging-market assets. Investors should sell the notes maturing June
2022 when the yield touches 7.50 percent, analysts Rohit Arora
and  Igor Arsenin  said in a research note yesterday. Barclays had
advised buying the debt at 7.94 percent on March 26. The yield
was 7.53 percent yesterday.  “The recent rupee weakness reduces the probability of a
rate cut at the June 17 monetary policy meeting,” the Barclays
analysts wrote. “Should the  Reserve Bank  of India pause, the
next opportunity to cut rates will be July 30, a long time in
the current market environment.”  Central bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao will keep the
benchmark repurchase rate at 7.25 percent, 11 of 19 analysts
said in a Bloomberg News survey. The rest predict a reduction to
7 percent. The currency’s depreciation threatens to stoke
inflation by making imports more expensive.  Rate Cuts  Subbarao cut the RBI’s benchmark rate by 75 basis points
this year to help revive the weakest growth in a decade.  India’s
economy  expanded 5 percent in the fiscal year ended March 31,
the government said May 31. That compares with a 10-year average
of about 8 percent.  The shortfall in the  current account , the broadest measure
of trade was $32.6 billion in the three months ended Dec. 31, or
6.7 percent of gross domestic product, compared with a $22.6
billion gap in the preceding quarter, the RBI said March 29.  Subbarao said June 7 that India has a “current-account
problem” and added that while inflation has “come off the
peak,” consumer-price growth still remains “quite high.”  Wholesale prices  rose 4.89 percent in April from a year
earlier, a 41-month low, official data show, while an index of
 consumer prices  climbed 9.39 percent.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  began changes in September to
spur growth, woo investment and avert a credit-rating downgrade.
Steps have included liberalization in the retail and aviation
industries, faster approvals for public works, lower levies on
overseas buyers of local bonds and higher taxes on gold imports.  Default Swaps  Singh’s policy push has foundered in recent weeks as
protests over alleged graft in government disrupted parliament,
impeding bills seeking to lure more foreign capital, simplify
taxes and provide more land for industry.  Bond risk in India has risen. The cost of insuring the debt
of  State Bank of India (SBIN) , considered a proxy for the sovereign by
some investors, using five-year credit-default swaps rose to 240
basis points yesterday from a two-year low of 174 on May 17,
according to data provider CMA.  “Given how much the rupee has fallen, and considering
yields are still elevated, I wouldn’t be surprised if investors
have started averaging themselves into a long rupee position,”
said Cavenagh from Westpac. “But they will have to give
themselves 12 to 18 months to see gains, and there will be some
pain until then.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net ;
Yidi Zhao in  Hong Kong  at 
 yzhao7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  