-- Pioneer’s Feltus Sees Value in U.S. High-Yield Company Debt
-- B y   D a v i d   H o l l e y
-- 2013-06-12T15:19:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/pioneer-s-feltus-sees-value-in-u-s-high-yield-company-debt.html
A surge in U.S. speculative-grade bond yields to the highest level this year makes the
debt an attractive investment, according to Andrew Feltus,
a  money manager  at Pioneer Investment Management Inc.  Junk-bond yields have climbed to 6.72 percent as of
yesterday, the most since 6.75 percent on Dec. 31 and up
from an unprecedented low of 5.9837 percent on May 9,
according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. High
Yield Index. The securities have lost 1.5 percent in June,
headed for the worst monthly performance since November
2008 during the financial crisis.  “You put a lot of value back in that market,”
Feltus, who helps oversee $35 billion in U.S. fixed income
assets and is based in  Boston , said today in a Bloomberg
Radio interview.  With yields above 6 percent and the extra compensation
investors demand above similar-maturity Treasuries at more
than 500 basis points, “I look at it as valuations versus
fundamentals,” he said. The spread widened to 508 basis
points yesterday from 423 basis points on May 10, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data show. A basis point is
0.01 percentage point.  “With 500 basis points over, you’re getting paid for
the risk,” he said. “If I was on the show a month ago, I
would be saying this is not the time to be aggressive,”
Feltus said. Now “is the time to add some. Not to be
massively overweight.”  The rise in bond yields has accelerated since Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said May 22 that the
central bank could reduce $85 billion in monthly Treasury
and mortgage debt purchases within “the next few
meetings” if officials see signs of sustainable
improvement in the labor market.  The Pioneer High Yield Fund which Feltus co-manages
has  lost  2.7 percent since May 21, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Junk bonds  are rated below Baa3 by
Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- at  Standard &
Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Holley in  New York  at 
 dholley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  