-- Prime Meat’s $142 Ribeye Beats Keith McNally’s Minetta
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2013-06-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/prime-meat-s-142-ribeye-beats-keith-mcnally-s-minetta.html
Prime Meats wants us to eat less
meat. The Brooklyn spot now serves its ribeye for two only on
Friday and Saturday nights.  It’s a bold move by chefs Frank Falcinelli and Frank
Castronovo. They realize that at a time when diners want prudent
portion sizes, and when beef prices are at an all-time high, the
most sensible thing a restaurant can do is to serve fewer
steaks.  This weekend dry-aged ribeye is the luxury it’s priced to
be -- $142; more than at  Manhattan ’s Minetta Tavern or  The
Dutch . There’s a good reason for the discrepancy: The steak
tastes better here.  Prime Meats has come a long way since it opened, when the
restaurant was cash-only, the steak for two was as cheap as $65
and the cooking was good, but not great. I gave it  one star  in
2010.  Now, all major credit cards are accepted. And Prime Meats
will start to take reservations for the first time this week,
via  Urbanspoon .  The kitchen has improved too. Suckling pig, so light and
soft under ashen skin, is cooked in fat. And a dry-aged beef
sausage, blending steak trimmings with a strong dose of pork,
gives diners a chance to experience the musky taste of a New
York strip in the form of a bratwurst ($16).  Roasted carrots ($11) arrive with cayenne pepper cream, the
caramelized sugar enhanced by the addition of dairy fat. Red
quinoa ($11) is leaner, with fragrant mint and pickled
vegetables.  Hello, Gorgeous  Not everything’s new. Prime Meats is still the gorgeous
restaurant it’s always been, with pressed tin ceilings and wood
floors. Sunlight pours in through a front room that overlooks
the church where Al Capone was married.  The bar, once standing-room-only, now has stools. It’s a
proper place for a strong Martini, maybe with a dozen oysters,
never too cold and with nary a popped belly. The mousse-like
weisswurst ($10) is paired with a malty pretzel roll,
best enjoyed while sitting down with a tall wheat beer.  Raise a glass to the two Franks for creating a four year-old spot that’s as comfortably worn as one that’s forty.  Raw Beef  Drinks are transferred, and wines are served in thin-lipped
stems. Told you things were civilized. Order a nervy German
riesling ($15) to tame the heat of a beef tartare. That mound of
raw meat is startling -- the flavors of anchovies, capers and
Tabasco come through with laser-sharp clarity.  The Franks have condensed the menu. Gone is the forgettable
sauerbraten. Now we have short ribs ($26), balancing barbecue-like smoke with tender braised beef. Amish pickled chicken
remains, packing a clean poultry punch with just a hint of dill-like brine, the carnivorous equivalent of a dirty martini.  No more strip steak. Instead Prime Meats offers a slightly
cheaper Wagyu flank ($30). Skip the forgettable cut.  Wait till Friday for the cote de boeuf. It’s not as tender
as the one served at Michael White’s Costata. But the mineral
tang comes through louder and clearer than almost anywhere else
in New York.  The slices are finished with good salt and the charred meat
is cooked just enough to render out the fat. And since we’re now
at a brasserie, not a steakhouse, the sides -- sweet carrots and
sauteed cavolo nero -- come without charge. Pair the beef with
custardy, butter-roasted lobster.  Tuck into an ice-cold coconut cream pie and aid the
digestion with a shot of Underberg, a bitter German digestif.  Life is good. Prime Meats is in its prime.
Rating: ** 1/2  The Bloomberg Questions:  Price: Most dishes under $30.  Sound Level: Lively, about 75 decibels. Louder when full.  Date Place: Absolutely.  Inside Tip: Order the creme brulee and apple strudel.  Special Feature: Rich, nourishing gruyere spaetzle ($9).  Back on my own dime? I’m already a regular.  Prime Meats is at 465 Court Street. Information: +1-718-254-0327 or  http://www.frankspm.com/ .  
Sound-Level (in decibels): 51 to 55: Quiet enough to converse.
56 to 60: Speak up. 61 to 65: Lean in if you want to hear your
date. 66 to 70: You’re reading one another’s lips. 71 to 75:
You’re yelling. 76 to 85: Ear-splitting din.  (Ryan Sutton writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own. Follow him on Tumblr at
www.thepricehike.com or www.thebaddeal.com.)  Muse highlights include  movie  and  theater  reviews.  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 