-- Putin Prepares to Take Back Moscow
-- B y   L e o n i d   B e r s h i d s k y
-- 2013-06-12T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/putin-prepares-to-take-back-moscow.html
Russian President  Vladimir Putin  has
largely defeated the opposition that rose against him during the
attempted “Snow Revolution” of 2011 and 2012. Now a mayoral
election is giving him the opportunity to retake Moscow, the
city that led the revolt.  The Moscow election, scheduled for September 8, is crucial
for several reasons. The capital was the only district Putin
failed to win in the March 2012 presidential vote, despite
officials’ widely documented efforts to rig the result. The
mayoral contest itself is happening because  Dmitry Medvedev 
restored regional elections as a concession to protesters when
he was president. A victory for a Kremlin-backed candidate would
undermine the legitimacy of the opposition leaders who have
claimed Moscow’s streets, leading tens of thousands on anti-Putin marches, sometimes in defiance of official bans.  Putin’s candidate,  Sergei Sobyanin , surprised the
opposition last week by announcing that he would resign his
appointed post as the city’s mayor, forcing an early election.
Sobyanin’s move leaves his opponents with only a few months to
mount a campaign, all but ensuring he will return to what is
arguably the highest elected office in  Russia  after the
presidency. Lest anything be left to chance, Sobyanin’s most
serious rivals are likely to be disqualified from running at
all.  The primary potential contender was  Mikhail Prokhorov , the
billionaire owner of the Brooklyn Nets who ran against Putin in
last year’s presidential election. Prokhorov took second place
in Moscow with 20 percent of the vote to Putin’s 47 percent. But
he announced on June 13 that he wouldn’t be entering the mayoral
race, citing a law banning candidates with foreign assets. He
also quashed speculation that his sister Irina Prokhorova, a
highbrow  book publisher  popular in cultural circles, would run
in his place.  Another possible opponent is anti-corruption blogger Alexei Navalny. He has a loyal following in Moscow and was one of the
more uncompromising leaders of last year’s protests, repeatedly
getting detained for pushing the envelope during rallies and
marches. As far back as 2010, well before the mass protests,
respondents to an online poll by the daily Kommersant newspaper
 gave  Navalny 45 percent of the mayoral vote compared with less
than 3 percent for Sobyanin.  In real life, Navalny faces a tougher battle. He is now
standing trial in the provincial city of Kirov on flimsy  charges 
of conspiring to steal lumber from a state-owned company. If he
is convicted, which is highly likely, Russian electoral law will
prevent him from running.  Any candidates who overcome the initial obstacles will then
face the “municipal filter,” which requires contenders in
regional elections to secure the support of a certain number of
local council members. In Moscow the number is 110, a tall order
given that the capital’s local councils are packed with members
of the ruling United Russia party, which has backed Sobyanin.  “At this stage, inconvenient candidates can be cut off if
pressure is put on the councilmen,” the Rosbalt news service
 quoted   Boris Nemtsov , a leader of the party that nominated
Navalny, as saying.  Even if Prokhorov and Navalny are allowed into the race,
they might not stand much of a chance because the incumbent is
genuinely popular. Most polls  suggest  Sobyanin’s approval rating
is greater than 50 percent. Russian media have  cited  a recent
poll by Moscow State University’s Social Systems Institute that
gave Sobyanin 54 percent of the vote if the election were held
immediately, with Prokhorov receiving 12 percent and Navalny a
mere 2 percent.  In his 31 months in power, Sobyanin has sought to turn
Moscow into a more European city. Parks including Gorky Park
have received facelifts. Museums and theaters have been
modernized. A city-financed bicycle rental program, on the Paris
model, started operating in downtown Moscow. Ramshackle street
kiosks selling beer and cigarettes have disappeared. New public
transportation lanes have appeared to help buses get through
Moscow’s perpetually clogged avenues. Paid parking has eased
congestion within Moscow’s central Boulevard Ring.  Sobyanin has had his share of setbacks. Public transport
has not improved much. The Moscow subway system, normally highly
reliable, has suffered from crippling accidents including a fire
that temporarily took one of the lines out of commission. The
city had to abandon a program to repave pedestrian walkways with
tiles, which were sloppily laid and provoked outrage among
Moscow women, fond of wearing high heels.  On balance, though, the mayor’s moves have mollified the
“angry urbanites” who were active in last year’s protests.
Usually publicity-shy, Sobyanin gave a long  interview  to the
daily Moscow News in late May, choosing to meet with journalists
at Jean-Jacques, an iconic downtown cafe popular with protest-minded intelligentsia.  “Call me what you like, the main thing for me is to make
things run,” Sobyanin said. “I have never considered myself to
be of the left or of the right. I have always considered myself
someone who aims to solve a problem no matter what color it
is.”  Columnist Boris Grozovsky, an opposition supporter,
compared Sobyanin favorably with his predecessor, Yury Luzhkov.
“He is doing exactly what advanced Muscovites expected from
Luzhkov ten years ago,” Grozovsky  wrote  on Forbes.ru.  “Compared to Luzhkov, I am much happier with Sobyanin,”
Jean-Jacques owner Dmitry Borisov  told  Echo Moscow radio.
“There is at least some idea of the city as a place of relative
freedom where people are able to do something if they want to.”  Given the perception of Sobyanin as a sober, competent
mayor, the opposition has little to offer in terms of a credible
alternative. Voters want someone who will tame traffic and keep
the parks clean, not wage a war on the Kremlin. Some even see
the lack of competition for the mayoral post as a blessing. “It
would be tough for a mayor contesting a 100 percent democratic
election to start fining people for bad parking and for leaving
garbage in parks,” columnist Alexander Baunov  wrote  on Slon.ru.
“In a democratic election, it would be easier to say that all
fines are abolished. But that is not our scenario yet: We are
not going to see the kind of election where that would be
required.”  Sobyanin’s victory in September will seal a silent pact
between Putin and the majority of Muscovites: No matter how much
they dislike the man in the Kremlin, they’ll have to live with
him if they want to keep their city running.  (Leonid Bershidsky, an editor and novelist, is Moscow
correspondent for World View. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:  bershidsky@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article: Mark
Whitehouse at  mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 