-- RBC Seeks Wealth-Management Deals Up to $5 Billion, CFO Says
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-06-12T15:19:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/rbc-seeks-wealth-management-deals-up-to-5-billion-ceo-says.html
Royal Bank of Canada , the country’s
largest lender by assets, will consider acquisitions of as much
as C$5 billion ($4.9 billion) as it seeks to expand its wealth-management unit, Chief Financial Officer Janice Fukakusa said.  The size of the takeovers could range from C$1 billion to
between C$3 billion and C$5 billion, Fukakusa said today at a
financial-services conference in New York. “The size that we’ve
been doing is anywhere from the C$500 million range up to C$2
billion, so they’re pretty manageable acquisitions.”  Royal Bank has expanded its wealth-management business
through takeovers, including its 2010 purchase of London-based
fixed-income money manager BlueBay Asset Management Plc for
C$1.52 billion. Wealth management contributed 11 percent of the
Toronto-based lender’s profit in the first six months of the
fiscal year, according to financial statements.  “What we’re looking at is more on the wealth-management
side in terms of asset management,” Fukakusa said. “We’re
looking at expanding some of our product capability and
distribution capability in markets where we have a lower
presence.”  Royal Bank would favor deals that expanded its equity
capability, “given where the fixed-income cycle is,” she said.  “That would be in markets where we have some other
distribution or product capability, through capital markets or
wealth and we’re trying to enhance that capability,” she said.  Capital Markets  Royal Bank is a potential bidder for Scottish Widows
Investment Partnership, the asset-management business of  Lloyds
Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , Dow Jones & Co.’s Financial News reported
yesterday, citing unidentified people. Rina Cortese, a Royal
Bank spokeswoman, declined to comment on the report.  The lender isn’t looking for acquisitions to expand its RBC
Capital Markets investment-banking unit, preferring to expand
internally or by hiring bankers, Fukakusa said.  “The growth in capital markets is organic growth,” she
said. “We have not contemplated an acquisition of a capital
markets platform or a company, it’s more along the lines of
getting teams.”  Royal Bank slid 0.4 percent to C$59.16 at 11:08 a.m. in
Toronto. The shares have lost 1.2 percent this year, compared
with the  2 percent decline  of the eight-company Standard &
Poor’s/TSX Commercial Banks Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  