-- RBNZ Holds Key Rate as Wheeler Targets Strong Kiwi, Housing
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-06-12T23:35:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/rbnz-holds-key-rate-as-wheeler-targets-strong-kiwi-housing-1-.html
New Zealand ’s central bank expects
to keep borrowing costs at a record low this year to avoid re-igniting demand for the currency, which it said remains
overvalued. The kiwi declined.  “Despite having fallen over the past few weeks, the  New
Zealand dollar  remains overvalued and continues to be a headwind
for the tradables sector,” Governor Graeme Wheeler said in a
statement in Wellington today after leaving the Official Cash
Rate at 2.5 percent. The bank cut its growth forecast for the
year through March 2014 to 3 percent from 3.3 percent, and left
its projection for the following year at 2.8 percent.  Confronted with a surging housing market that threatens
financial stability and an elevated currency that dents exports,
Wheeler has kept interest rates steady and turned instead to
other policy tools. He reiterated today the RBNZ will seek to
intervene in the foreign-exchange market where appropriate.  “If we see the opportunity to try for example to take the
tops off any exchange-rate peak, then we may exercise
intervention,” he said. “If there were very strong capital
flows, we wouldn’t try to become engaged and try to offset those
in any substantive way.”  Dollar Weakens  New Zealand’s dollar dropped to 79.54 U.S. cents at 10:55
a.m. in Wellington from 79.90 cents before the decision. Traders
pared bets the RBNZ will lift rates in December to a 30 percent
chance from 54 percent late yesterday, according to swaps data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “The governor was seen as not hawkish enough,”  Annette Beacher , Singapore-based head of Asia-Pacific research for TD
Securities, said in an e-mailed note. Wheeler today reiterated
the  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand expects to keep the OCR
unchanged through the end of the year, and it seems currency
traders “wanted this dropped or altered,” she said.  The currency has declined about 6 percent against the
greenback since Wheeler first said on May 8 he was intervening
to weaken it. He sold a net NZ$256 million ($203 million) in
April, according to central bank data. In a May 30 speech,
Wheeler said he was prepared to step up his efforts.  “We’ve got an overvalued exchange rate,” Wheeler said
today. “Thankfully the  exchange rate  is starting to weaken and
hopefully it will continue to do so.”  Rates Forecast  The central bank today maintained its forecast that the
three-month bank bill yield will rise to 2.8 percent in the
second quarter next year from an estimated 2.7 percent in the
current quarter. The outlook, which is seen as a guide to the
direction of the cash rate, suggests no increase in the
benchmark until mid-2014.  The bank raised its projection for the 90-day bank bill
yield from the first quarter of 2015, predicting it will climb
to 4 percent by the end of that year compared with its previous
forecast of 3.8 percent.  The RBNZ lifted its inflation forecast for 2014 to 1.9
percent from 1.7 percent. Inflation isn’t projected to reach 2
percent, the midpoint that Wheeler is focused on, until the
second quarter of 2015.  Today’s rate decision was forecast by all 15 economists in
a Bloomberg News survey. Four had been predicting a rate rise
this year, while 11 saw no change until 2014.  “We expect to keep the OCR unchanged through the end of
the year,” the RBNZ said in its statement.  House Prices  House prices  rose 7.1 percent in May from a year earlier,
matching the fastest pace since 2008, Quotable Value New Zealand,
a government-owned property research company, said this week.
The central bank expects annual house-price inflation to peak at
10.8 percent in the first quarter of 2014, it said.  “The bank is concerned that the current escalation in
 house prices  is increasing the probability and potential harm of
a significant downward correction in prices,” the RBNZ said in
its quarterly Monetary Policy Statement, also released today.  Wheeler last month reached an agreement with Finance
Minister  Bill English  on how to implement new prudential tools
to counter a housing-led credit boom that may threaten bank
stability. They include restricting the volume of loans banks
can make with deposits of less than 20 percent of the purchase
price.  Recent increases in housing demand have been supported in
part by an easing in credit conditions, the central bank said
today. Mortgages with a high loan-to-value ratio have been
increasing and household credit growth is picking up, it said.  “The Reserve Bank does not want to see financial or price
stability compromised by housing demand getting too far ahead of
the supply response,” Wheeler said.  Drought Drag  Wheeler indicated that confidence in the economy will
rebound, led by stronger global growth, a lift in residential
investment and reconstruction of earthquake-devastated
Christchurch. The eventual boost to demand may drive up labor
costs and other prices, which have been contained by the
stronger kiwi.  Growth in the first half of 2013 will be curbed by a
drought which affected farm output earlier this year. Fonterra
Cooperative Group Ltd., the world’s biggest dairy exporter, this
week said milk collection for the six months ended May 31 fell
8.9 percent from a year earlier.  The central bank estimated the drought will reduce gross
domestic product growth by 0.5 percentage points in the six
months ending June 30.  “There is increasing evidence that despite the recent
drought the pace of GDP growth has recovered,” the RBNZ said.
“Demand will be boosted by reconstruction in Canterbury, strong
momentum in the housing market and continued low  interest
rates .”  Quake Rebuild  New Zealand suffered its deadliest earthquake in 80 years
in February 2011 when a temblor struck the city of Christchurch,
killing 185 people and wrecking roads, homes and commercial
property. The RBNZ estimates the nation faces a NZ$40 billion
rebuild.  The central bank has left the cash rate unchanged since
March 2011 to allow the economy to recover from the earthquakes,
and to revive confidence after  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis
curbed global demand. Exporters have also been buffeted by near-zero interest rates in the U.S. and Europe, which helped boost
the New Zealand dollar.  Sluggish growth and the rising currency slowed inflation to
0.9 percent in the first quarter from a year earlier, beneath
the central bank’s 1 percent to 3 percent target range.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  