-- RBS CEO Stephen Hester to Step Down After Almost Five Years
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-06-12T19:29:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/rbs-ceo-stephen-hester-to-step-down-after-almost-five-years.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,
Britain’s biggest government-owned bank, unexpectedly said Chief
Executive Officer  Stephen Hester  will step down at the end of
2013 as the U.K. prepares for a possible share sale.  “We are now in a position where the government can begin
to prepare for privatizing RBS,” Hester, 52, said in a
statement today. “While leading that process would be the end
of an incredible chapter for me, ideally for the company it
should be led by someone at the beginning of their journey.”  Hester joined Edinburgh-based RBS in 2008 after former CEO
 Fred Goodwin  left the bank following a 45.5 billion-pound ($71.4
billion) taxpayer bailout, the biggest in the banking industry.
His departure comes as the government prepares to start selling
its 81 percent stake in  RBS (RBS)  and 39 percent holding in  Lloyds
Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  before the next general election scheduled for
2015.  “It’s very disappointing news,” said Gary Greenwood, a
banking analyst at Shore Capital in Liverpool,  England  with a
hold rating on the stock. “Hester was liked by the markets for
having done a good job in turning the bank around so far.”  Since Hester took over as CEO he has shrunk the balance
sheet to about 1.3 trillion pounds at the end of the first
quarter from 2.2 trillion pounds, selling businesses and
eliminating more than 36,000 jobs. The bank in May posted its
first quarterly profit since 2011 as impairments on souring
loans dwindled and Hester predicted the restructuring would be
“substantially complete” this year.  ‘Turnaround Possible’  “I want to commend Stephen Hester for everything he has
done to make this turnaround possible,” Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  said in a statement today. “Having
brought RBS back from the brink, now is the time to move on from
the rescue phase to focus on RBS being a U.K. bank that provides
greater support to the British economy.”  RBS Chairman  Philip Hampton , 59, will start a search for a
CEO successor and will consider both internal and external
candidates, the bank said.  “The acceleration of considering succession for the CEO
role arises from the Treasury’s determination to see the bank is
in a state that it can be returned to the private sector by the
end of 2014.” Hampton told reporters on a conference call
today. “We do need a chief executive with a period in front of
them rather than a very big period behind them.”  Average Price  Hester said last month that he saw a “cogent” case for
the government to start selling its RBS stake, even at an
initial loss. The average price the taxpayer would achieve for
the entire holding in RBS would be higher than the government’s
rescue price, he said.  “It is the board’s decision and my position throughout is
I want to do what’s right for RBS,” Hester told reporters on a
conference call today. “I was prepared to carry on through
privatization, but I think that it is very fair to say for me
that would have been an end. Am I completely comfortable with
the rationale? Yes I am.”  The shares fell 0.6 percent to 325.6 pence in London
trading, below the 407 pence a share the government sees as
break even on its investment. The announcement came after the
close of trading. The stock has gained 47 percent in the past 12
months.  Hester will be paid 1.6 million pounds, representing 12
months of pay and benefits and won’t get a bonus for 2013. He
may also receive as much as 4 million pounds of shares as part
of a long-term incentive plan, the bank said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  