-- Rehn Says Latvia’s ‘Determined’ Fiscal Policy Shows EU the Way
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2013-06-12T13:04:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/rehn-says-latvia-s-determined-fiscal-policy-shows-eu-the-way.html
European Union Economic and Monetary
Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said  Latvia ’s rebound from deep
recession in 2009 to euro entry due next year highlights the
need across  Europe  to narrow national budget deficits.  “Latvia has come a long way,” Rehn told the European
Parliament today in Strasbourg, France. “Determined policy
implementation has helped Latvia to return to robust growth and
emerge economically much stronger.”  More than three years into EU-wide spending cuts meant to
tackle the debt crisis that has threatened the euro, the
European Commission is seeking to balance German-led demands for
further austerity and calls mainly in southern Europe for more
fiscal leeway to help the bloc emerge from a recession. The
commission is in charge of enforcing beefed-up EU rules to limit
national budget deficits, which can lead to fines.  Last week, the commission endorsed Latvia’s bid to join the
euro at the start of 2014, saying the country met targets for
inflation, deficits, debt, long-term  interest rates  and currency
stability. European finance ministers must still sign off on the
recommendation to let Latvia become the euro’s 18th member.  Latvia suffered from Europe’s deepest recession in 2009,
when the nation’s economy contracted 17.7 percent, before
posting its fastest growth last year, 5.6 percent.  “Latvia’s prospective euro adoption is a very strong
signal to the region, to the euro area and to the global
community and world economy at large,” Rehn said. “It
underlines the integrity of the euro and proves that determined
policy action for sustainable public finances and sustainable
growth and job creation do generate concrete results.”  -- Editor: Jones Hayden  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Strasbourg,  France  at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  