-- ResCap Wins Bankruptcy Court Approval to Repay Ally
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-06-12T17:43:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/rescap-wins-bankruptcy-court-approval-to-repay-ally.html
Residential Capital LLC won court
permission to repay more than $1.9 billion in debt immediately,
including $1.1 billion to parent  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY)  that the
defunct mortgage company borrowed before filing for bankruptcy.  ResCap will make the payments before finishing a plan to
distribute more than $4 billion in cash to all creditors, who
are owed at least $6.3 billion. ResCap has said the payments
will save it more than $3 million a month in interest costs and
won’t be unfair to lower-ranking creditors because the money
will go to pay senior debt.  The payments are supported by the official committee of
unsecured creditors and are related to a deal negotiated last
month among Ally, ResCap and its major creditors, ResCap said in
court papers.  “From a purely economic perspective it makes sense to pay
down those claims,” Marc Puntus, a ResCap financial adviser
with Centerview Partners LLC, said in court today.  ResCap, based in  New York , filed for bankruptcy last year
with plans to sell its mortgage businesses and resolve lawsuits
brought by buyers of mortgage bonds backed by home loans.  The payments approved today by U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn in  Manhattan  include $800 million for junior secured
noteholders.  Ally Bonds  After the ruling, Ally’s 6 percent bonds that mature in
2019 rose more than 1 percent to 99.93 cents on the dollar,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Glenn overruled an objection from noteholder  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , which argued that it will be difficult to get the
cash back from Ally should a court later rule that the auto
lender wasn’t entitled to the payment. Detroit-based Ally is
majority-owned by U.S. taxpayers after receiving a government
bailout.  The case is In re Residential Capital LLC, 12-bk-12020,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  -- Editors: Stephen Farr, Michael Hytha  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  