-- Rhoen Pares Gain After Investor Challenges Threshold Vote
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e   a n d   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2013-06-13T16:09:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/rhoen-klinikum-shareholders-abolish-90-blocking-threshold.html
Rhoen-Klinikum AG (RHK)  pared gains in
Frankfurt trading after saying shareholder B. Braun Holding GmbH
is legally challenging an annual meeting vote to abolish an
investor-approval threshold on mergers and other key decisions.  Rhoen-Klinikum closed up 6.7 percent at 17.73 euros at 5:30
p.m. in Frankfurt, the highest price since Aug. 31, after
jumping as much as 14 percent earlier today. The German hospital
operator said yesterday that shareholders at the meeting had
abolished a requirement that major decisions receive the backing
of investors holding at least 90 percent of the voting rights  Braun’s vote wasn’t accepted because the medical-supply
company’s representative wasn’t “duly legitimated,” Rhoen-Klinikum Chairman Eugen Muench said in an e-mailed statement
today. Rhoen-Klinikum said separately that Melsungen, Germany-based Braun and other shareholders or representatives told it
they plan to go to court to challenge the resolutions.  The 90 percent-approval requirement played a role in
derailing a takeover last year of Bad Neustadt An Der Saale-based Rhoen-Klinikum by Fresenius SE, another hospital operator.
Braun, a competitor to Fresenius’s Kabi intravenous-therapies
division, bought a stake of at least 5 percent in Rhoen-Klinikum
following the failed combination.  Any shareholder has a month to object to the vote, which
received backing of investors owning 90.5 percent of the
capital, and the decision won’t become final until it’s entered
into the German corporate register, according to Rhoen-Klinikum.  Offer Amount  Fresenius offered 22.50 euros a share, or a total 3.1
billion euros ($4.1 billion), for Rhoen-Klinikum before
abandoning the bid in September after competitor Asklepios
Kliniken GmbH bought a stake to block the takeover. A successful
deal would have created the biggest German hospital-operating
network.  Closely held Asklepios, based in Hamburg, and Fresenius,
which has its headquarters in the  Frankfurt  suburb of Bad
Homburg, each hold 5 percent of Rhoen-Klinikum, equaling the
stock held by Braun, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Muench and his family own the biggest stake at 12.5 percent.  “It’s very difficult to judge what the outcome will be,”
Igor Kim, an analyst with Close Brothers Seydler Research AG,
said by phone.  Alecta’s Push  Swedish pension fund Alecta, the second-biggest  shareholder 
at 9.9 percent, pushed for the elimination of the 90 percent
voting threshold to improve the hospital-management company’s
flexibility.  Muench gave a speech at the meeting in support of dropping
the threshold, citing operating challenges in the  hospital-management industry  that would encourage consolidation. The
chairman said he preferred the Fresenius tie-up because a
combination with Asklepios would bring about fewer revenue gains
and cost savings.  Rhoen-Klinikum said on June 10 that it’s in fresh talks
with Fresenius on a clinic partnership that would allow patients
to buy insurance for in-network services such as single-bed
hospital rooms and treatment by top doctors. The partnership as
envisioned wouldn’t be exclusive, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Connolly in London at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kristen Hallam at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net  