-- Trian’s Ed Garden Sees Conglomerate Costs as Activist Targets
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2013-06-12T17:21:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/trian-s-ed-garden-sees-conglomerate-costs-as-activist-targets.html
The costs that conglomerates face to
manage their various businesses as holding companies continue to
make them attractive targets for activist investors, said  Edward Garden , founding partner at  Trian Fund Management LP .  “There’s a cost to a conglomerate,” Garden, who is also
Trian’s chief investment officer, said today on Bloomberg
Television’s “Market Makers” with  Erik Schatzker  and  Betty Liu . “If you’re not getting less risk and you’re not getting
adequate earnings growth, if you have more volatility and
materially less growth, then you scratch your head and say, ‘I’m
not getting the value for the cost of the conglomerate.’”  Trian, the New York-based money manager founded in 2005 by
Garden,  Nelson Peltz  and Peter May, last year successfully
pushed Ingersoll-Rand Plc to sell some of its businesses.
Activist funds generally acquire equity stakes in companies and
try to force corporate management to make changes that boost
share prices and investor returns.  Trian, which in 2006 waged a six-month proxy fight with
H.J. Heinz Co. to win seats on the board and convince management
to execute a turnaround plan, doesn’t foresee similar battles,
Garden said.  “I don’t think we’ll ever have another proxy fight,
because our reputation is that we work constructively with
management,” he said, while describing the Heinz results as
“spectacular.”  Heinz, which makes food products from ketchup to infant
formula, has climbed to $72.49 a share through the close
yesterday in New York, from around $37 on Feb. 21, 2006, when it
first became known that Trian was targeting the company.  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and  Jorge Paulo Lemann ’s 3G Capital Inc. agreed to buy the iconic ketchup maker
for about $23 billion in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  