-- Risks Weighed in Exposure of U.S. Surveillance Secrets
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2013-06-12T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/risks-weighed-in-exposure-of-u-s-surveillance-secret-playbook-.html
Worldwide attention on disclosures
of once-secret U.S. surveillance programs may hinder efforts to
track terrorist communications even though sophisticated terror
groups almost certainly suspected the eavesdropping.  The exposure of Internet and telephone monitoring is “more
of a reminder than a revelation” to terrorists, said Thomas Fingar, former deputy director of national intelligence. Still,
he said in an interview, “Bad guys, like other human beings,
get lazy, lapse, do what’s convenient, unless they’re reminded.
This episode is a reminder.”  While Director of National Intelligence James Clapper has
called published reports of U.S. surveillance a “playbook” for
terrorists in avoiding detection, it’s difficult to assess the
extent of damage to counterterrorism efforts. The potential
impact involves amorphous predictions about how the leaks will
alter the behavior of would-be plotters, friendly intelligence
agencies and technology companies, according to former U.S.
intelligence officials.  Clapper said in an interview with NBC News that the
disclosures about telephone and Internet data collection by
Edward Snowden, a 29-year-old former security contractor and CIA
technical analyst, will do “huge, grave damage” to “our
intelligence capabilities.”  Already Revealed  Fingar, now a fellow at  Stanford University ’s Freeman
Spogli Institute for International Studies, said news coverage
of former President  George W. Bush ’s warrantless wiretapping
program and political debate as intelligence surveillance laws
were reauthorized in recent years should have alerted terrorist
networks and foreign spy services that the U.S. was engaging in
this kind of monitoring.  Still, Snowden’s hand-off of classified material to the
 Washington Post (WPO)  and U.K.-based Guardian newspapers may motivate
terrorists to shift more time and resources to concealing their
communications, though that involves a trade-off of speed and
efficiency. While al-Qaeda leaders such as  Osama bin Laden  used
human couriers to evade detection by electronic eavesdropping,
communication through intermediaries, even trusted ones, “can
be slow and clumsy,” said  Paul Pillar , former deputy director
of the Central Intelligence Agency’s counterterrorism center.  “It’s a mistake to assume that every communication of al-Qaeda or anyone else is done solely on the basis of maximum
security,” he added.  Government Cooperation  Allied governments also may hesitate in sharing sensitive
information if the leak generates broader concern about U.S.
ability to keep secrets within an intelligence community that
involves a multitude of private contractors, including  Booz
Allen Hamilton Holding Corp. (BAH) , where Snowden had worked for the
past three months. McLean, Virginia-based  Booz Allen  fired
Snowden on June 10, the day after he revealed his role.  The disclosures Snowden has made so far may not have much
impact on the trust allied intelligence agencies place in the
U.S., Fingar said. “What’s there so far, I don’t think would
cause people to overreact.”  Still, the latest disclosures of classified information
came as another self-described whistle-blower, Army Private
First Class Bradley Manning, 25, is on trial for providing a
trove of classified State Department documents to the anti-secrecy WikiLeaks website.  “Any time you have a leak, anybody who is a cooperator or
potential cooperator with your own service is going to think
twice about cooperation,” Pillar said. “Leaks have hurt
cooperation with a variety of foreign counterparts in the
past.”  Sharing Reluctance  A cooling of intelligence sharing can be subtle and still
have consequences, Pillar said. “It’s not an on-off switch,”
he said. “It’s a question of how much, how often, how fast
things are shared. It’s a matter of degree.”  Technology companies also could become more resistant to
sharing data with U.S. intelligence services if they lose
customers or face sanctions from European authorities raising
concerns about surveillance on privacy grounds.  “It’s a major public relations problem clearly for the
companies that have been named in doing their duty and
cooperating with the government on this,” Pillar said. “That
cannot help the trust and confidence of the business community
in the future and certainly in these companies in particular.”  Citing classified documents, the Washington Post and
Guardian reported that the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  and
National Security Agency had accessed the central servers of
nine U.S. Internet companies, extracting audio and video chats,
photographs, e-mails, documents and connection logs.  Companies Involved  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , Yahoo! Inc., Google Inc.,  Facebook Inc. (FB) ,
and Apple Inc. are among the companies involved, the newspapers
reported. They have issued statements either denying that they
had granted the government direct access to their servers or
saying they were unaware of the program.  Google and  Facebook  yesterday asked the  Justice Department 
for more leeway to disclose information about national-security
requests for data, seeking to reassure users that the Web
companies don’t give authorities unfettered access.  The operator of the world’s most popular Internet search
engine sent a letter to Attorney General Eric Holder and FBI
Director  Robert Mueller , Google said in a  blog post  showing the
letter. The  Mountain View , California-based company asked for
the ability to report aggregate numbers of national-security
requests.  ‘Transparency Report’  “We would welcome the opportunity to provide a
transparency report that allows us to share with those who use
Facebook around the world a complete picture of the government
requests we receive, and how we respond,” Ted Ullyot, general
counsel of  Menlo Park ,  California-based Facebook , wrote in an e-mailed statement.  Snowden fled to  Hong Kong  before revealing his role in the
newspaper reports of surveillance. General Keith Alexander, the
NSA director, told members of the Senate Intelligence Committee
in a briefing that he didn’t know Snowden’s whereabouts, said
Georgia Senator  Saxby Chambliss , the panel’s top Republican.  Chambliss said in an interview that he expects Snowden to
release more classified data.  “Apparently he’s got a thumb drive,” Chambliss said,
while its contents are unknown. “He’s already exposed part of
it and I guess he’s going to expose the rest of it.”  Federal prosecutors have started preparing criminal charges
against Snowden, which they may try to finish quickly in order
to start talks about extradition, according to U.S. officials.
The FBI is conducting a broad investigation, according to the
officials, including interviews with family, examination of his
communications and whether he had any assistance with his
efforts to obtain the leaked material.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington D.C. at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 