-- Robert Fogel, Nobel Laureate for Economic History, Dies at 86
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2013-06-12T00:25:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/robert-fogel-nobel-laureate-for-economic-history-dies-at-86.html
Robert Fogel, the  University of
Chicago  economic historian awarded a Nobel Prize for his data-driven reconsiderations of how railways and slavery influenced
U.S. economic history, has died. He was 86.  He died yesterday at Manor Care Health Services in Oak Lawn,
 Illinois , following a brief illness, according to a statement by
the University of Chicago’s Booth School of Business, which
cited his family.  The  Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences  awarded Fogel and
Douglass North of  Washington University  in  St. Louis  the 1993
Nobel in economics “for having renewed research in economic
history by applying economic theory and quantitative methods in
order to explain economic and institutional change.” Both men
were pioneers in applying modern mathematics to the study of
history, a field known as  cliometrics , after Clio, the muse of
history in Greek mythology.  As founding director of the University of Chicago’s Center
for Population Economics, Fogel oversaw creation of large sets
of data on American life that help economists, medical
researchers and other experts forecast health-care costs, the
size of the  labor force  and the demands on pension programs.  Fogel first became known for his 1964 book, “Railroads and
American Economic Growth,” which challenged the widely held
assumption that rail travel had fundamentally reshaped the
American economy.  Innovative Research  By studying the U.S. economy of 1890 with the rail
transport that existed then, and under a hypothetical scenario
without railroads, he found that they “were not absolutely
necessary in explaining economic development and that their
effect on the growth of GNP was less than 3 percent,” the Nobel
organization  wrote . “Few books on the subject of economic
history have made such an impression as Fogel’s. His use of
counterfactual arguments and cost-benefit analysis made him an
innovator of economic historical methodology.”  He made a similar splash in 1974 with “Time on the Cross:
The Economics of American Negro Slavery,” co-written with
Stanley Engerman, a professor of economics at the University of
Rochester.  Approaching the subject as economists, without making moral
judgments, Fogel and Engerman wrote that Southern slavery was an
economically rational and efficient system that, by and large,
kept slaves well-fed, taught them to farm and collapsed for
political rather than economic reasons.  “Our emphasis was not to deny that slavery was an
oppressive system,” Fogel said, “but that it was within the
system for the development of black culture.”  ‘Social Failings’  Reviewing the book for the New York Times,  Columbia
University  economist Peter Passell wrote: “Fogel and Engerman
have with one stroke turned around a whole field of
interpretation and exposed the frailty of history done without
science. They force us to confront contemporary social failings
instead of pushing them into the past.”  In a 1989  book , “Without Consent or Contract: The Rise and
Fall of American Slavery,” Fogel presented the moral case
against slavery that many other critics saw as conspicuously
missing from his work of 15 years earlier.  Robert William Fogel was born on July 1, 1926, in  New York
City , four years after his parents and older brother had left
Odessa,  Russia , for the U.S. He said his education in  New York 
City public schools imbued in him a love for science, literature
and history.  He earned his undergraduate degree in 1948 from  Cornell
University , his master’s degree from Columbia University in 1960
and his Ph.D. from  Johns Hopkins University  in 1963.  1940s Pessimism  At Cornell, he switched his focus from science to economics
and history, inspired, he said, “by the widespread pessimism
about the future of the economy during the second half of the
1940s.”  As Fogel wrote in an  autobiography  for the  Nobel
Foundation : “What did we really know about the role of the
factory system in economic and institutional change during the
19th century? What was the nature and the magnitude of the
contribution of particular new technologies, such as railroads
or steel mills, to economic growth?”  The “quantitative evidence” needed to answer such
questions, he concluded, required “the most advanced analytical
and statistical methods that were then taught in the economics
department.”  At  Johns Hopkins , he wrote his dissertation under economist
Simon Kuznets, who would later win a Nobel Prize for
establishing the methods by which the government measures growth
in gross national product.  Scouring History  In 1977,  Martin Feldstein , then the new president of the
 National Bureau of Economic Research , appointed Fogel as
director of a new  program  on the development of the American
economy. The project identified gaps in available economic
information and led to the development of dozens of data sets
covering periods as far back as the late 1700s, Fogel wrote.  Fogel held professorships at the University of Rochester
and  Harvard University . In 1981 he joined the University of
Chicago’s Graduate School of Business as a professor and the
director of the  Center for Population Economics , an institution
created to “focus on the interaction of economic, demographic,
and biological processes over life-cycles and generations,”
according to Fogel.  The center’s work -- tracing the lives of Union soldiers
from the Civil War, for instance -- would prove central to the
research that won him the  Nobel Prize .  Fogel had two sons, Michael and Steven, with his wife,  Enid .
She held academic posts including associate dean of students at
the University of Chicago’s business school. She died in 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  