-- Roc Plans to Bid for Myanmar’s ‘Frozen in Time’ Oil Fields
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-06-12T04:07:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/roc-plans-to-bid-for-myanmar-s-frozen-in-time-oil-fields.html
Roc Oil Co. (ROC) , an explorer focused on
China,  Australia  and Southeast Asia, is planning to bid for oil
and natural gas fields off the coast of Myanmar and is talking
with potential local partners to develop the prospects.  Roc is looking to lodge its interest in shallow-water
fields by a June 14 deadline set by the government after
qualifying earlier this year to bid for onshore licenses, Pierre Eliet, general manager of exploration and geoscience for the
Sydney-based company, said today in a phone interview. He
declined to name any possible Myanmar partners.  Roc joins a line of global energy companies, from  Woodside
Petroleum Ltd. (WPL)  to  Oil India Ltd. (OINL) , seeking a share of Myanmar’s
oil and gas resources as the nation connects to the global
economy after years of isolation. Investment in Myanmar, wedged
between China and  India , largely dried up during almost five
decades of military rule that ended last year.  “Myanmar is a country with huge potential that has been
frozen in time in many regards,” Eliet said. “There’s an
opportunity to revisit a well-established oil and gas heartland
with new technologies and perhaps a new approach.”  President Thein Sein has allowed more political freedom and
loosened economic controls since coming to power two years ago,
prompting nations including the U.S. to ease sanctions and
attracting companies such as Ford Motor Co. and MasterCard Inc.  ‘Significant Prize’  Roc,  Total SA (FP) ,  Eni SpA (ENI)  and Oil & Natural Gas Corp. are
among 59 companies that qualified earlier this year to bid for
onshore fields in Myanmar, according to the nation’s energy
ministry. Myanmar is also offering 30 offshore blocks.  Myanmar’s potential gas resources are estimated at as much
as 45 trillion cubic feet, Roc said in February, citing a U.S.
Geological Survey report. Myanmar has 7.8 trillion cubic feet of
proven gas reserves, according to BP Plc data.  “That’s quite a significant prize, and clearly the
industry feels that as well given the appetite,” Eliet said.  Woodside, Australia’s second-largest oil and gas producer,
is evaluating bids on offshore blocks after reaching two
exploration deals last year in the country, Chief Executive
Officer Peter Coleman said in a May 28 interview.  Roc, which gets about three quarters of its production from
 China  and Australia, also wants to expand in  Malaysia  after
entering the country about two years ago, Chief Executive
Officer Alan Linn said today in the phone interview. Roc’s
operations include the Cliff Head oil field off Western
Australia and the Zhao Dong oil fields off China.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  