-- Rubber Drops to 9-Month Low as Yen Rally Saps Investor Appetite
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 2013-06-12T02:25:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/rubber-drops-to-9-month-low-as-yen-rally-saps-investor-appetite.html
Rubber slumped to the lowest level
in nine months after the Japanese currency rallied the most in
three years against the dollar, sapping investor appetite for
yen-denominated futures.  The contract for delivery in November lost as much as 3.9
percent to 239 yen a kilogram ($2,476 a metric ton) on the Tokyo
Commodity Exchange, the lowest since Sept. 12. Futures traded at
240.6 yen at 11 a.m., extending losses this year to 20 percent.  The yen traded at 96.47 per dollar after jumping as much as
3.2 percent yesterday, the biggest gain since May 2010. Asian
stocks extended a global selloff as investors weighed growing
reluctance by central banks to add stimulus after the  Bank of
Japan  left its lending program unchanged.  “Futures lost support from the  currency market  after the
Bank of  Japan  refrained from adding stimulus,” Naohiro Niimura,
a partner at research company Market Risk Advisory Co. in Tokyo,
said today by e-mail.  BOJ Governor Haruhiko Kuroda said policy makers will
discuss longer funding operations should they become necessary,
after leaving his April plan to double the nation’s monetary
base unaltered.  Thai rubber free-on-board gained 0.7 percent to 88 baht
($2.83) a kilogram yesterday, according to the Rubber Research
Institute of  Thailand . Prices were supported by concern that
rain across Thailand’s southern provinces, the nation’s main
production area, disrupted tapping, according to Chaiwat Muenmee,
an analyst at Bangkok-based broker DS Futures Co.  The Shanghai Futures Exchange is closed for a public
holiday and will resume trade tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aya Takada in  Tokyo  at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  