-- Sainsbury Maintains Growth Record as Grocer Outpaces Rivals
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2013-06-12T09:20:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/sainsbury-maintains-growth-record-as-grocer-outpaces-competitors.html
  J Sainsbury Plc (SBRY) , the U.K.’s third-largest supermarket chain, reported a 34th successive quarter of
same-store sales growth as the grocer increased its share of the
market while its main competitors all lost ground.  Sales at stores open at least a year rose 0.8 percent,
excluding revenue from fuel, in the 12 weeks ended June 8,
London-based Sainsbury said today. The median estimate of 12
analysts compiled by Bloomberg News was for 0.9 percent growth.  Sainsbury’s revenue gain contrasted with declines reported
most recently by  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  and  William Morrison Supermarkets
Plc (MRW) , helped by its premium Taste the Difference brand, which is
growing at more than 10 percent, and a 20 percent increase in
convenience-store sales. Still, same-store sales growth slowed
from the previous quarter’s 3.6 percent, partly on comparisons
with a period of last year that benefited from purchases related
to celebrations of the Queen’s Diamond Jubilee.  “Sainsbury continues to outperform peers on like-for-like
momentum,”  James Grzinic , an analyst at Jefferies International
Ltd., said in a note. “Non-food, convenience and dotcom all
remain highly accretive to the group’s growth profile.”  Sainsbury was little changed at 362.5 pence at 10:19 a.m.
in London trading. The shares have gained 5 percent this year.  Sainsbury was the only one of the four biggest U.K. grocers
to gain market share on an annual basis in the 12 weeks through
May 12, controlling 16.8 percent of the market compared with
16.5 percent a year earlier, Kantar Worldpanel said May 21.  Tesco Decline  Market leader Tesco saw its share decline to 30.2 percent
from 30.8 percent.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ’s Asda chain declined to
17.2 percent from 17.4 percent and Morrison to 11.6 percent from
11.9 percent as shoppers turned to discounters such as Aldi and
Lidl and upscale chains including Waitrose.  The Taste the Difference range of premium foods, introduced
by the grocer in 2000, has now reached 1 billion pounds ($1.6
billion) of annual sales, Sainsbury said. Growth was also helped
by sales of non-food items, which increased at more than twice
the pace of food in the quarter, it said.  The strongest gains were achieved in convenience stores and
online groceries, where sales rose more than 16 percent. Without
these, same-store sales of food were lower in the quarter,
 Philip Dorgan , an analyst at Panmure Gordon, estimated.  “We think that this indicates that Sainsbury should be
doing more to reduce space growth than it currently is,” Dorgan
said in a research note.  New Supermarkets  Sainsbury plans to open 10 to 12 new supermarkets this
year. As these will be in parts of the country where it isn’t
present, “we’re confident that the new space will continue to
perform for the company,” King said on a conference call.  Extensions to existing stores added 0.2 percent to same-store sales growth in the first quarter, the company said.  Sainsbury expects a “challenging” economic climate for
the rest of the year, King said.  Customers are only “marginally less negative than they
have been in recent times,” King said. “I don’t think we
should be getting carried away,” by better economic data.  The U.K. economy will grow through 2015 faster than
previously forecast, the British Chambers of Commerce said May
31, while  consumer confidence  rose to a six-month high in May.  Chief Financial Officer John Rogers today reiterated the
company’s forecast for growth of 1 percent to 1.5 percent in
same-store sales for the full financial year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at +44-20-7673-2153 or
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at +31-20-589-8505 or
 cperri@bloomberg.net  