-- Samaras Defies Coalition Partners in Greek State TV Showdown
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   E l e n i   C h r e p a
-- 2013-06-12T21:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/samaras-defies-coalition-partners-in-greek-state-tv-showdown.html
Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras
defended his decision to shut down the country’s public ERT
broadcaster, setting the stage for a showdown with the two
parties that support his year-old government.  The “announcement should have been made years ago,”
Samaras said in a speech in Athens yesterday. “We will restore
true public television with the most radical reform in the Greek
media sector. We have already submitted the law to Parliament.”  He didn’t publicly respond to appeals earlier from both
Pasok leader  Evangelos Venizelos  and Democratic Left’s Fotis Kouvelis, for a meeting to better coordinate government policies
and to reopen the state-run broadcaster while it is overhauled.  A government official who asked not to be identified said
Samaras would call his two coalition partners today to arrange a
meeting in the coming days.  The June 11 decision to close the broadcaster, with the
loss of 2,600 jobs, drew anger from unions and threatens to
undermine his government a year after the coalition was formed
in the wake of two inconclusive elections.  The two junior coalition parties earlier submitted a law to
parliament to revoke Samaras’s decree shutting down ERT.
Venizelos told his lawmakers in  Athens  that Pasok doesn’t want
elections “but it doesn’t fear elections.” Pasok’s 28 deputies
provide Samaras with the majority he needs in Parliament to pass
laws. His New Democracy has 125 seats in the 300-seat house.  Elections Responsibility  “Samaras is undertaking the responsibility of leading the
country to elections,” Democratic Left’s spokesman Andreas
Papadopoulos said, in a first reaction to Samaras’s speech.  Bonds and stocks dropped on the reappearance of political
turmoil in  Greece . The yield on Greece’s 10-year bond climbed 35
basis points to 10.37 percent yesterday as Greece’s benchmark
ASE Index fell 3.2 percent, extending this week’s slump to 12
percent.  Samaras became Greece’s fourth premier in eight months last
June, after his  New Democracy  party joined forces with the
socialist Pasok, which finished third, and sixth-place
Democratic Left, ending a period of political limbo and fear the
country would leave the euro area that began with an
inconclusive May 6 election.  Unions called a 24-hour strike for today that will disrupt
flights, public transportation and government services.
Journalists are continuing a strike that began yesterday for a
second day, leaving the country in a media black hole.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Eleni Chrepa in Athens at 
 echrepa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  