-- SAP Wins Ruling on Versata Patent in $345 Million Case
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-06-12T18:46:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/sap-wins-ruling-on-versata-patent-in-345-million-case.html
SAP AG (SAP)  won a U.S. patent office
ruling that could help it avoid paying a $345 million jury
verdict over a way to customize pricing, in the first challenge
under a new rule for reconsidering business methods patents.  The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office yesterday found that
the patent claims owned by closely held Versata Software Inc.
should be canceled because they seek to cover a mental process
rather than an actual invention. In May, an appeals court upheld
the infringement verdict and damage award while the validity of
the patent wasn’t an issue.  “This is a very significant and positive milestone for
us,” said Andy Kendzie, a spokesman for Walldorf, Germany-based
SAP. “We recognize this is one step in the process that’s still
being played out.”  The decision by the PTO’s Patent Trial and Appeal Board
could give SAP more ammunition in its petition asking for a
reconsideration of the May decision by the U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Federal Circuit in  Washington , which specializes in
patent law. The same court will end up with any appeal of the
patent office’s ruling.  “It’s a very unique situation where you have a case still
pending at the Federal Circuit with an infringement decision and
a pretty large damage award,” said Erika Arner, a patent lawyer
with Finnegan in Washington who was co-counsel for SAP on the
patent review.  First Case  With modifications and interest, the jury award has grown
to more than $400 million, Versata lawyers have said. SAP, the
largest maker of business-management software, reported $11.8
billion in gross profit on sales of $16.2 billion last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The patent office review was the first of its kind under a
new proceeding created by Congress to reconsider issued patents
for finance-related business methods.  SAP successfully asked to have the review expedited, so the
decision came six months after the process was instituted, said
Steve Baughman of Ropes & Gray in Washington, who also
represented SAP. The law sets a one-year timeline, while a
typical review under old rules could take years.  In a lawsuit filed in March against the patent office,
Versata said its patent isn’t for a financial product or service
so shouldn’t be subject to the new proceeding. The patent office
was able to rule so quickly in part because it limited the
review to whether the invention is eligible for legal
protection. Versata also objected to that being considered.  ‘Fundamentally Wrong’  “We can certainly expect an attempt to use this finding to
reach from the grave on the case they already lost,” said Scott
Cole of McKool Smith in Austin, Texas, who represents Versata.
“There are a variety of reasons why we don’t think that will
happen.”  An appeal of the PTO decision, which Cole called
“fundamentally wrong in virtually every respect,” could take a
year or more before the Federal Circuit, while the separate
patent case is almost done, he said.  The dispute is over software that can customize pricing
based on factors such as the particular customer, product and
size of the order. Versata sold its software, called Pricer, in
the late 1990s to customers such as  International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM)  and Motorola Inc. SAP began offering customized
pricing as part of its enterprise software in 1998, according to
the court’s opinion.  $345 Million  Versata sued SAP in 2007. A jury in 2011 awarded $260
million to compensate Austin-based Versata for its lost profits
plus $85 million as a reasonable royalty on SAP’s sales. In
upholding the infringement finding and damage award, the Federal
Circuit said SAP’s larger presence enabled it to push Versata
out of the market.  More than two dozen requests have been filed with the
patent office for review of business method patents, far fewer
than the agency expected. Congress is considering a measure that
would expand the program to any software.  “People had a misapprehension of how narrow the definition
of covered business method patents is,” said Baughman, who’s a
lawyer on 15 of the 28 cases before the agency. “When you do
something like this, you want to see how the mechanism is going
to work in the wild, in real life. Initial results and initial
decisions along the way will help people evaluate whether they
like the process.”  The case is Versata Software Inc. v. SAP America Inc., 12-1029, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
(Washington). The lower court case is Versata Software Inc. v.
SAP America Inc., 07cv153, U.S. District Court, Eastern District
of  Texas  (Marshall).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 