-- Scene Last Night: Citigroup’s Corbat, Schwarzman, Streep
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2013-06-12T16:37:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/scene-last-night-citigroup-s-corbat-schwarzman-streep.html
“The lack of power to take joy in
outdoor nature is as real a misfortune as the lack of power to
take joy in books,”  Theodore Roosevelt  said in the Outlook, a
weekly magazine of his day.  Mike Corbat, the chief executive officer of Citigroup Inc.,
couldn’t agree more.  “In winter it’s skiing, the rest of the year it’s mountain
biking, freshwater fishing, hiking, climbing -- just put me
outside and I’ll figure out what to do,” Corbat said last night
standing in the Theodore Roosevelt Rotunda of the  American
Museum of Natural History .  “I think when you do those things, it takes you to a
different place,” Corbat added. “When you come back, you’ve
cleared out the cobwebs and you can refocus again on the things
you need to do.”  Corbat was at the museum for its 21st annual corporate
dinner, which honored  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s philanthropic support,
including a $250,000 Citi Foundation grant Corbat announced last
night for the museum’s education programs.  The foundation has supported the museum since 1989, said
Ellen Futter, the museum’s president.  “Both of our institutions live at the threshold of
discovery,” Futter said. “Citi does this as a global leader in
finance, while the museum does it through cutting-edge
scientific research.”  Corbat took his daughter, Alli, to the museum when she was
a child. She’s now a student at University of  St. Andrews ,
Scotland, and has a summer internship in London at Bloomberg LP,
the parent company of Bloomberg News.  Rainy Day  “We lived just a few blocks from here, and when we had
some free time, a rainy day, we could walk up the street, come
in and get lost for a couple of hours,” he said. “What I
enjoyed is seeing things through her eyes. That’s as fun as
seeing things myself.”  In remarks at the lectern to 260 guests, including  Steve Schwarzman , CEO of Blackstone Group, and  Roger Altman , chairman
of  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR) , Corbat said he’s drawn to the
museum’s dinosaurs. “I love thinking back to what the world was
like a couple million years ago -- a time when banks were
liked.”  Corbat’s personal philanthropy focuses on freshwater-fishing organizations, such as the Wild Salmon Center and Trout
Unlimited. The biggest freshwater fish he ever caught and
released was a 30-inch rainbow trout. In saltwater, he’s caught
shark, barracuda and tuna.  “I’ve caught all kinds of big fish. They wind up winning a
lot more than I do,” he said.  Public Pirates  At the  Public Theater ’s 2013 gala at the  Delacorte Theater 
in Central Park last night, Sting,  Steve Martin  and  Meryl Streep 
had prime seats for a one-night-only performance of “The
Pirates of Penzance,” starring  Kevin Kline  as the Pirate King
and Martin Short as Major-General Stanley, a sure recipe for
hilarity.  Streep took the stage before the performance to say a few
words about her friend Nora Ephron, the writer and director who
died last year and was a big supporter of the Public,
particularly its free theater in Central Park.  Streep recalled a dinner with Ephron. “I bubbled to our
tablemates, ’Bon Appetit,’” Streep said, doing a perfect
imitation of Julia Child. “And she gave me a sideways look and
said, ’I have a thought.’”  Making Magic  That turned into the movie “Julia and Julia,” in which
Streep played Child. “Nora knew how to extend a thought to make
it magic, to make it a thing,” Streep said.  Ephron was a board member of the Public Theater for more
than eight years.  “She was a great board member,” said Warren Spector, the
chairman of the Public Theater’s board. “She spoke her mind,
when she liked something she was gung ho, and when she didn’t
like something she did not let us continue.”  To honor her memory and her love for Shakespeare in the
Park, the board has planted a cherry tree outside the Delacorte
theater. The gala raised $2.3 million  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include Lili Rosboch and Katya Kazakina on
 art .  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 