-- Scotiabank Considering Credit Cards for ING Direct, Hibberd Says
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-06-12T18:00:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/scotiabank-considering-credit-cards-for-ing-direct-hibberd-says.html
Bank of Nova Scotia ,  Canada ’s third-largest lender, is considering adding credit cards for its ING
Direct unit, said Robin Hibberd, a company executive.  Scotiabank is working with management of ING Direct, the
Canadian-banking business acquired from  ING Groep NV (INGA)  for C$3.1
billion ($3 billion) in November, on a credit-card strategy,
Hibberd, executive vice president of retail products and
services, said today at an investor conference in  New York .  “The trick for us is they are known as a deposit-space
institution primarily and what we have to make sure is whatever
we introduce in terms of other products is consistent with their
positioning in the market,” Hibberd said.  ING Direct currently offers its customers savings and
checking accounts and mortgages, mostly through online banking.
Toronto-based Scotiabank agreed to keep ING Direct’s accounts,
locations and staff separate when it bought the business.  Scotiabank also sees opportunity to advance its own credit
cards, including its American Express travel rewards card, if
competitor Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce can’t renew its
partnership with  Aimia Inc. (AIM) , the Aeroplan rewards program owner.
CIBC reiterated last month that it’s considering alternatives
for its CIBC Aerogold Visa card should it fail to extend the 22-year agreement.  “It’s a great chance for us to put our product out there
in front of people and say, ‘Look what we have and what it’s
value is,’” Hibberd said. “We’re going to prepared, depending
on how things work out, to respond appropriately.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  