-- SEC Puts Exchanges in Sights Charging CBOE Regulatory Lapses
-- B y   S a m   M a m u d i
-- 2013-06-12T14:39:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/sec-puts-exchanges-in-sights-charging-regulatory-lapses-at-cboe.html
Exchange executives, long shielded
from legal scrutiny in the U.S., have been put on notice that
may be changing after federal regulators fined  CBOE Holdings
Inc. (CBOE)  $6 million for unprecedented lapses in supervision.  The levy, disclosed yesterday in a settlement with the
biggest American options venue, marks the third time in nine
months the Securities and Exchange Commission has announced
financial sanctions against a market operator. Before collecting
 $5 million  from  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  in September for data
dissemination violations, the commission had never imposed a
monetary penalty on an exchange.  More than a decade of evolution in the way stocks, options,
futures and derivatives trade in the U.S. has raised scrutiny of
exchanges, which compete against each other for profits while
supervising members as self-regulatory organizations. The role,
dating from a period when markets were owned by the firms that
used them, has been questioned following lapses in technology
and oversight.  “This is something that’s been percolating at the SEC for
a number of years,” said Paul Huey-Burns, a lawyer who worked
at the agency from 1986 to 1998, in a phone interview yesterday.
“There’s a perception at the agency that while the exchanges,
as SROs, are an important part of the regulatory framework, that
particular leg has not been holding up its side of the stool.”  CBOE added 0.5 percent to $42.02 as of 10:37 a.m. in  New
York .  Interfering  Legislation that created the SEC in 1934 also deemed the
main venues self-regulatory organizations, or SROs. The status
gives them immunity for most actions taken as part of their
supervisory duties, protecting them from lawsuits related to the
exercise of those powers and preventing losses that could
jeopardize institutions seen as vital to the  U.S. economy .  Those shields were publicly challenged last year in the
aftermath of Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.’s mishandling of Facebook
Inc.’s initial public offering. Brokerages such as Citigroup
Inc., which claim to have lost tens of millions of dollars when
Nasdaq’s computers malfunctioned, said exchanges should be
forbidden from hiding behind SRO rules when their mistakes
reflected attempts to maximize profits.  The SEC didn’t cite New York-based Nasdaq for errors of
regulation, charging the company instead with securities laws
violations in a complaint settled last month. Nasdaq’s $10
million payment marked the second time the SEC had secured cash
compensation from a market operator.  Compliance Cultures  “SROs must have strong compliance cultures and adequate
and dedicated compliance resources to provide the first line of
defense,” SEC Commissioner  Luis Aguilar  said in prepared
remarks for a conference published on May 8. “However, when
SROs fall short, the SEC needs to stand ready to take action.”  The CBOE was fined after its staff was found to have
interfered with a three-year SEC investigation of short selling
at a member firm, OptionsXpress Inc., according to yesterday’s
order. The settlement came four days after an administrative law
judge ruled the Charles Schwab Corp. unit helped facilitate sham
transactions that violated U.S. securities laws known as
Regulation SHO.  OptionsXpress broke SEC rules between 2008 and 2010,
according to the regulator’s statement. Schwab bought the
company in 2011.  “This settlement marks a significant step in putting the
SEC matter behind us,” CBOE said in an e-mailed statement.
“All actions either required or recommended by the SEC, as well
as those resulting from our rigorous self-review, have been or
are now being implemented.”  SEC Investigation  Gail Osten, a spokeswoman for the Chicago-based market
operator, declined to comment beyond the statement. CBOE said in
a filing in February that it expected to pay as much as $10
million to settle the SEC’s investigation.  OptionsXpress and its chief financial officer, Thomas E. Stern, helped a client conduct trades designed to fake
compliance with laws prohibiting so-called naked short sales,
where investors sell a stock they don’t possess in hope of
profiting from declines, according to a June 7 ruling by Brenda P. Murray, the chief administrative judge for the SEC.  Murray found that OptionsXpress allowed the trades knowing
the shares would never be delivered and that the practice was
illegal. After the judgment, OptionsXpress lawyer Stephen
Senderowitz maintained the firm did nothing wrong and said it
was considering an appeal. The actions occurred prior to the
firm’s purchase by Schwab.  During the investigation, the SEC found that employees of
the CBOE didn’t know enough about the short-sale law to enforce
it, according to the SEC statement. Not only did they fail to
detect violations, they “took misguided and unprecedented
steps” to assist the firm that was under investigation.  Adequate Training  Staff members didn’t have adequate training in  securities
law  and CBOE never ensured that they had read the appropriate
rules, the order said. It cited the exchange for failing to
respond quickly enough to requests for information.  “The  Chicago Board Options Exchange  failed to fulfill its
fundamental responsibilities as an SRO and exchange,” according
to the SEC order. “CBOE’s failures were not mere oversights or
technical violations, but a systemic breakdown in several of its
regulatory and compliance responsibilities.”  The first monetary penalty secured by the SEC against an
exchange was announced on Sept. 14, when NYSE Euronext agreed to
pay $5 million to settle charges of compliance failures that
gave certain customers a head start on trading information.  Educating Venues  “It’s a significant event whenever the SEC fines an
exchange,” said Neal Wolkoff, former CEO of the  American Stock
Exchange , in an interview. “This is intended to allay concerns
the investing public may have that exchanges aren’t separating
their SRO functions from their commercial interests.”  The CBOE penalty and accompanying details of the
investigation provided an opportunity to “thoroughly educate”
the exchanges about what is expected from them, said Huey-Burns.  That’s highlighted by a passage in which the SEC notes that
exchange staffers tried to assist OptionsXpress by helping it
write a so-called Wells submission, a formal reply to regulatory
concerns raised by the agency. The edited document contained
inaccurate and misleading information, the SEC wrote.  “There’s no question in my mind that by putting that in
the complaint the SEC is sending a message to the exchanges
that, you may have to accommodate your members, but we want your
focus to be on your regulatory role,” said Huey-Burns, a
partner at Shulman Rogers Gandal Pordy & Ecker PA in Potomac,
 Maryland .  Judith Burns, an SEC spokesperson, said commission staff
members don’t comment on cases beyond published statements. The
SEC noted in its order that the CBOE has acted to address the
issues, including changing its regulatory, compliance and
corporate governance structure.  Equity Trading  The spread of equity trading across dozens of private
venues and advances in technology have spurred the SEC to a
broader role in exchange oversight. In April, the agency passed
a rule, Regulation Systems Compliance and Integrity, directing
exchanges to strengthen their technology and instructing member
firms to participate in tests to show they can sustain
operations after a large disruption.  Daniel Hawke, head of the SEC’s market-abuse unit, said in
a speech on Feb. 25, 2012, that the agency had begun a broad
examination of practices that gained dominance in the past
decade amid the shift to automation. The SEC is looking into
techniques such as co-location, in which exchanges let traders
place computers close to the market’s systems to shave time off
executions, rebates venues pay users, direct  market access  where
brokers let investors send orders to venues themselves, and
whether the types of orders that exchanges offer are being
misused.  SRO Duties  The levying of fines against exchanges reflects an
increased level accountability, said  Bruce Weber , dean of the
Alfred  Lerner College  of Business and Economics at the
 University of Delaware .  “Exchanges really need to think through their compliance
enforcement and make their SRO duties something that’s taken
very seriously,” said Weber by telephone. “In recent years,
new product development, marketing, customer relations,  investor
relations  and new listings have been getting high priority. If
anything, their SRO duties have slipped backwards in terms of
management priority.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sam Mamudi in New York at 
 smamudi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  