-- Senate Panel Rejects Push for Independent Prosecutors
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-06-13T18:45:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/senate-panel-rejects-push-for-independent-prosecutors.html
The Senate Armed Services Committee
rejected a proposal to remove prosecution of sex-assault cases
and other major crimes in the U.S. military from the chain of
command, siding with Pentagon officials over victims’ groups.  The panel yesterday turned down a measure by Senator
Kirsten Gillibrand, a  New York  Democrat, that would turn over
such cases to independent military prosecutors.  On a 17-9 vote that splintered across party and gender
lines, the committee approved an alternative by SenatorCarl Levin, the Michigan Democrat who heads the committee. His
measure would require a high-level review whenever a commanding
officer decides against pursuing prosecution of a sex-assault
allegation.  The vote, which may have doomed Gillibrand’s proposal,
angered advocates for assault victims who said many of those who
are attacked doubt their complaints will be acted on and are
afraid to tell their own commanding officers.  “Senator Levin’s proposal displays a shocking allegiance
to military leaders over the interests of sexual-assault
victims,” Nancy Parrish, president of Protect Our Defenders, a
victims’ advocacy group, said in a statement.  A reported surge in sexual assaults that President  Barack Obama  has called “shameful and disgraceful” spurred calls for
legislation, with women in Congress such as Gillibrand and
Senator  Claire McCaskill , a Missouri Democrat, at the forefront.
Yesterday, though, McCaskill joined Levin in defeating
Gillibrand’s measure.  ‘Honest Disagreement’  “We have an honest disagreement on how best to accomplish
our shared goal of putting predators in prison,” McCaskill
said.  While Gillibrand has said that independent military
prosecutors would “provide the unbiased justice that our
victims need,” Levin countered yesterday that her approach
“would weaken our response to sexual assault and actually make
it less likely that sexual assaults would be prosecuted.”  The Levin alternative adopted by the committee also would
make retaliation against a victim who reports an assault a
criminal offense under military law.  After the vote, Gillibrand vowed to take her proposal to
the full Senate when the annual defense authorization bill comes
to the floor.  “We had strong bipartisan support,” Gillibrand said of
her bill, which has at least 28 cosponsors. “I think it will
receive wide support.”  House Measure  The companion defense bill approved by the Republican-controlled House Armed Services Committee calls for a study of
the role of commanding officers in administering military
justice.  The House Rules Committee blocked consideration by the full
House of amendments that would take prosecution of sexual
assaults outside the chain of command, a move that angered
sponsors including Representative Jackie Speier, a California
Democrat who serves on the House Armed Services Committee.  “It’s indefensible that some of my colleagues in the House
are not committed to even discussing such a serious issue on
behalf of the growing number of sexual assault victims in the
military,” Speier said today in a statement.  Gillibrand expressed frustration with her Senate colleagues
during yesterday’s committee’s debate, saying, “Many here don’t
believe the victims. They don’t believe the chain of command is
the problem.”  ‘Wrestled With’  Some Democrats who had wavered over Gillibrand’s proposal
ultimately sided with Levin.  “I have wrestled with this because I think a lot of our
commanders did not get it,” said Senator  Bill Nelson , a Florida
Democrat. “My conclusion is, if you can’t get the command
system to work, then the whole thing crumbles.”  Senator  Ted Cruz , a Texas Republican, broke ranks with most
of his party to side with Gillibrand, saying she “made a
powerful and effective argument” that the lack of reporting of
sexual assaults stems from keeping such cases within the chain
of command.  A Pentagon survey of active-duty troops released last month
estimated there were 26,000 cases of unwanted sexual contact
last year, compared with 2,949 victims identified in criminal
reports. The findings were issued amid an uproar over alleged
assaults that included cases involving officers working in sex-assault prevention programs.  Military ‘Culture’  Top Pentagon officials, including the chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff, have resisted Gillibrand’s proposal, saying
commanding officers must retain authority over their troops to
ensure good order and discipline.  “I don’t personally believe that you can eliminate the
command structure of the military from this process,” Defense
Secretary Chuck Hagel told the Senate Budget Committee at a
hearing yesterday. “Because it is the culture, it is the
institution, it’s the people within that institution that have
to fix the problem.”  About 81 percent of Americans view sexual assault in the
military as a very or extremely important issue, although 63
percent say it is no more of a problem than in civilian society,
according to a Pew Research Center poll. The telephone survey of
1,004 adults, conducted June 6 to 9, has a margin of error of
plus-or-minus 3.7 percentage points.  With Pentagon leaders working to show that the military can
act more aggressively in assault cases, the Army said on June 7
that it had suspended Major General Michael T. Harrison, the
commanding general of its forces in  Japan , while investigating
allegations that he “failed in his duties as a commander to
report or properly investigate an allegation of sexual
assault.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  