-- Seyfarth, Latham, Reed Smith, Orrick: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-06-12T11:40:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/seyfarth-latham-reed-smith-orrick-business-of-law.html
Seyfarth Shaw LLP began a labor and
employment practice in Australia with offices in Sydney and
Melbourne. The firm hired eight labor and employment partners
from three Australian law firms who will work on national and
cross-border matters.  Darren Perry, Chris Gardner, Justine Turnbull, Ben Dudley
and Luke Edwards join from Herbert Smith Freehills LLP. Rachel
Bernasconi and Michael Tamvakologos came from Ashurst LLP. Henry
Skene joins from Arnold Bloch Leibler.  “We are very excited about the arrival of this market-leading group of lawyers in Australia, which continues our
strategy of evolving our full-service platform and aligning
closely with the markets that are of the greatest strategic
importance to our clients,” J. Stephen Poor, Seyfarth’s
chairman and managing partner, said in a statement. “Australia
remains one of the most robust and dynamic markets for
workplace-related legal work.”  The new platform follows on the April announcement by
Seyfarth to open a  Shanghai  office this summer with partner Wan Li from DLA Piper LLP. The new offices will anchor the firm’s
Asia-Pacific presence, the firm said.  Seyfarth Shaw has more than 800 attorneys at 10 U.S.
offices as well as in  London , Shanghai and now Australia.  Deals  Cleary Advises Google on Purchase of Software Maker Waze  Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP  advised  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,
which acquired map-software provider Waze Inc. to keep
competitors such as Facebook Inc. and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  from eroding
its lead in mobile-navigation programs. Gunderson Dettmer Stough
Villeneuve Franklin & Hachigian LLP advised Waze.  Terms of the deal for Waze, with offices in  Israel  and Palo
Alto,  California , weren’t disclosed in Google’s  blog post 
announcing the purchase yesterday. The price was about $1.1
billion, a person familiar with the transaction said this week.  The Cleary Gottlieb corporate team included partners Ethan Klingsberg and Glenn McGrory. Partner Len Jacoby advised on
intellectual-property matters. Partner Michael Albano advised on
employee benefits and executive compensation. Partners Sheldon Alster and Jason Factor advised on tax issues. Goldfarb Seligman
& Co. acted as local counsel in Israel to Google.  Steve Baglio of Gunderson led the Waze team while Nitzan
Hirsch-Falk of GKH acted as local counsel in Israel.  As consumers shift to smartphones and tablets and away from
personal computers, Facebook and Google are increasing efforts
to court customers on the move. Waze, whose mobile app solicits
input from almost  50 million users  to improve directions and
display traffic and road-hazard details, would provide social
features for Google’s navigation tool. It may also help Google
extend its dominance in maps over rival Apple.  For more, click here.  Moves  Latham & Watkins  Hires Emerging Companies Lawyer in  Los Angeles   Latham & Watkins LLP announced that Dan Burnham, formerly
of Strategic Law Partners, joined the firm’s Los Angeles office
as a partner in the corporate department. He will head the
firm’s emerging companies practice group in Los Angeles.  Burnham has experience representing emerging companies and
venture capital investors in financings, mergers and
acquisitions and general corporate matters.  “Dan Burnham is one of the few lawyers in Los Angeles
whose practice focuses exclusively on emerging companies and
venture capital and who has an excellent reputation throughout
the market,” Jim Beaubien, office managing partner in Los
Angeles, said in a statement. “The three-mile stretch from
 Venice  to Santa Monica, now known as ‘Silicon Beach,’ is host to
numerous emerging companies and is garnering national
attention.”  Latham & Watkins has about 2,000 attorneys at 31 offices in
the U.S.,  Europe ,  Middle East  and Asia.  Benefits and Compensation Attorney Joins Ballard Spahr  Employee benefits and executive compensation lawyer Diane
A. Thompson joined Ballard Spahr LLP as a partner in Los
Angeles, expanding the firm’s practice to the West Coast.  Thompson spent more than a decade as a partner in the
compensation and benefits practice at Ernst & Young in Los
Angeles, where she developed and managed a global human
resources consulting division, the firm said in a statement. She
will be a member of the firm’s EBEC and health care groups, its
health-care reform initiative, and its business and finance
department.  Thompson advises clients on complex executive compensation
arrangements, including say-on-pay issues. She will also help
clients develop long-term strategies for compliance under the
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and counsel them on
general compensation, retirement and benefits issues, including
those arising under ERISA and tax law, the firm said.  “We have EBEC clients nationwide and we have long wanted
to add a partner of Diane’s caliber in the West,” Mark Stewart,
firm chairman, said in a statement. “She has the knowledge and
experience we and our clients look for, so this is a terrific
development.”  Ballard Spahr has more than 500 lawyers in 13 offices in
the U.S.  Reed Smith Adds Turman to Labor and Employment Practice  Labor and employment lawyer L. Julius M. Turman joined  Reed
Smith  LLP as a partner in the firm’s San Francisco office. He
was previously at  Morgan Lewis  & Bockius LLP.  Turman has represented and advised management-side clients
on discrimination, harassment, wrongful termination, trade
secret, unfair competition issues, and wage-and-hour litigation
among other matters, the firm said.  “Julius is a ‘go-to’ counsel for Toyota, and he is a
skilled, compelling employment law and litigation advocate,”
Christopher P. Reynolds, general counsel and chief legal officer
of Toyota North America, said in a statement. “We continue to
expect great things from him.”  Truman is joined by a labor and employment associate who
previously worked with him at Morgan Lewis.  Reed Smith’s labor and employment practice has more than
100 lawyers worldwide. The firm has more than 1,800 lawyers in
25 offices throughout the U.S., Europe, Asia and the Middle
East.  Hunton & Williams Adds Former Federal Prosecutor  Hunton & Williams LLP said former federal prosecutor Laura
Colombell Marshall joined the firm as a partner in Richmond,
 Virginia .  Marshall was a senior member of the U.S. Attorney’s Office
for the Eastern District of Virginia for more than 14 years. She
will focus on investigations, regulatory and civil enforcement
and white-collar criminal defense, the firm said.  At the U.S. Attorney’s office, Marshall prosecuted cases
involving investment fraud, health-care fraud and organized
crime, and led task forces targeting  identity theft  and  money
laundering . She worked on the Monetary Penalties Unit
responsible for civil and criminal asset forfeiture and recovery
for the past four years.  Hunton & Williams has more than 800 lawyers at 19 offices
in the U.S., Europe and Asia.  Three McKenna Lawyers Join Liner Grode in Los Angeles  Liner Grode Stein Yankelevitz Sunshine Regenstreif & Taylor
LLP announced the addition of three McKenna, Long & Aldridge LLP
lawyers in Los Angeles: Steven Abram, Dennis S. Roy & C.
Geoffrey Mitchell.  Abram has experience handling real estate transactions
involving developers, retailers, restaurants and theatres, as
well as public entities.  Roy’s practice focuses on real estate law and
redevelopment. He currently is assistant city attorney for the
City of Cerritos.  Mitchell has almost 30 years of experience in real estate,
real estate finance, and related transactional and corporate
work, the firm said.  Liner Grode has 50 lawyers at offices in Los Angeles and
 San Francisco .  K&L Gates Adds Partner to Los Angeles Energy Practice  The Los Angeles office of K&L Gates LLP added Charles E.
Schwenck as a partner in the energy, infrastructure and
resources practice. He was previously at Foley & Lardner LLP.  Schwenck advises developers, owners and others in
connection with the acquisition, development, construction,
financing, operation, and disposition of projects. He is also
active in the structuring of public-private partnerships and the
obtaining of governmental concessions, permits and approvals,
the firm said.  K&L Gates has 48 offices in the U.S., Asia, Australia,
Europe, the Middle East and  South America .  Kramer Levin Adds to Insurance Practice Group in New York  Kramer Levin Naftalis & Frankel LLP said Daniel A.
Rabinowitz joined the firm as a partner in the insurance
practice group in the  New York  office. He was previously at
Chadbourne & Parke LLP.  Rabinowitz specializes in transactional and regulatory
advice in the  insurance industry . Rabinowitz has experience in
transactional activity and regulatory matters affecting the
insurance business, including mergers and acquisitions,  capital
markets , restructurings, securitization and structured finance,
reorganizations, reinsurance, corporate governance and all
aspects of NAIC and state regulatory oversight.  He currently is
chairman of the Committee on Insurance Law at the New York City
Bar Association.  “Dan has a solid reputation for providing clients with
expert counsel across a number of complex issues,” said Paul S. Pearlman, Kramer Levin’s managing partner.  “His experience
will complement our well-known insurance, corporate and
securitization practices.”  Kramer Levin has lawyers at offices in New York, Silicon
Valley and Paris.  Drinker Biddle Adds New York Partner Kay Gordon  Hedge fund, investment-management and private-equity lawyer
Kay A. Gordon joined Drinker Biddle & Reath LLP as a partner in
the firm’s 30-lawyer investment-management group. She was
previously at the New York office of K&L Gates LLP.  Gordon concentrates her work in the investment-management
practice, with a particular emphasis on hedge funds, private
equity funds and compliance-related matters involving registered
advisers and broker-dealers. She also advises clients on
securities and regulatory matters as well as financial
instruments and transactions, including managed accounts, credit
facilities, joint ventures and derivative instruments, and
represents strategic investors in private equity, real estate
and  venture capital  funds, the firm said.  “Our Investment Management Group has been a leader in the
field for decades and we are particularly pleased that it now
has a presence in New York as well as Philadelphia,  Chicago  and
Washington,” Alfred W. Putnam Jr., chairman of Drinker Biddle,
said in a statement.  Drinker Biddle opened its Midtown Manhattan office in late
2011 and has tripled its size since, adding lawyers to the
corporate, litigation, intellectual property, restructuring and
insurance practice groups in the past year, the firm said.  Drinker Biddle has 650 lawyers in 11 offices in the U.S.
and London.  Video  Facebook-Instagram Deal Opened Door to Tumblr Valuation: Lawyer  Mark Seneca, corporate partner at Orrick, Herrington &
Sutcliffe LLP, talks with Bloomberg Law’s Spencer Mazyck about
his representation of Instagram Inc. in its $1 billion
acquisition by Facebook Inc. last year. Seneca, in this
“Rainmakers” episode, also compares the deal to Yahoo! Inc.’s
recent acquisition of Tumblr Inc.  This is a Bloomberg podcast. To download, watch or listen
to this report, click here.  Mukasey Calls U.S. Surveillance Leak ‘Huge Violation’  Former U.S. Attorney General Michael Mukasey discusses the
National Security Agency’s electronic surveillance program and
Edward Snowden, the former Central Intelligence Agency worker
who exposed it.  Mukasey, now a partner at Debevoise & Plimpton LLP, speaks
with Bloomberg’s Sara Eisen and  Erik Schatzker  on Bloomberg
Television’s “Market Makers.” (Source: Bloomberg)  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 