-- Siemens Reaps $1.3 Billion Order Boost From Brazilian World Cup
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2013-06-12T14:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/siemens-reaps-1-3-billion-order-boost-from-brazilian-world-cup.html
Siemens AG (SIE) , Europe’s largest
engineering company, said it has about 1 billion euros ($1.3
billion) in infrastructure project orders related to Brazil’s
2014 soccer  World Cup  and 2016  Olympic Games .  The investments include safety and building systems for the
Mane Garrincha National Stadium in Brasilia, and energy
management systems for the nation’s national grid operator,
Siemens said in an e-mailed statement today.  Infrastructure and construction companies are promoting
their credentials as they compete for orders from governments
boosting spending on projects and stadiums for major sports
events. Brazil is investing 30 billion reais ($14 billion) on
World Cup projects. Russia and Qatar have earmarked $85 billion
for investment as they will host the soccer world championships
in 2018 and 2022 respectively.  “We want our infrastructure solutions to help make the
events a success,” Paulo Stark, the head of Siemens’s  Brazil 
operations, said in the statement. “These major events will
speed up works in infrastructure laying the foundations of
sustainable growth.”  A maximum of 20 percent of the total spending for events
such as the World Cup goes toward stadiums, with at least 80
percent of the budget dedicated to projects such as new streets,
rail networks, hotels, airports and security systems, Munich-based Siemens said.  Still, Siemens missed out on big rail projects in Brazil
for which it had said it may bid after half of the 12 cities set
to host matches scaled back their plans for integrated metro,
light rail and bus systems amid delays and cost overruns. Among
them is  Sao Paulo , where a 2.8 billion-real monorail project was
replaced with 318 million reais in road improvements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Webb in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  