-- Singapore Regulator Said to Plan Bank Reprimand on Rates
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n ,   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 2013-06-13T10:07:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/singapore-regulator-said-to-plan-bank-reprimand-on-rates.html
Singapore’s central bank plans to
reprimand banks in the city-state as early as Friday following
an 11-month review into how benchmark  interest rates  are set,
five people with knowledge of the matter said.  The Singapore Foreign Exchange Market Committee, which
includes the Monetary Authority of Singapore and banks, plans to
separately announce changes to the rate-setting process on the
same day, two of the people said yesterday, asking not to be
identified before the announcements are made.  The island nation’s review into possible manipulation of
the  Singapore interbank offered rate  follows a global crackdown
on rigging of benchmark borrowing costs by banks and brokers.
 Barclays Plc (BARC) , UBS AG and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  were
fined $2.5 billion to settle claims with U.S. and U.K financial
regulators. A British markets supervisor is considering opening
a probe into potential manipulation in  currency markets , another
person briefed on the matter said.  “There is a sense that financial firms and markets have
grown too big and fast, and have cut corners in virtually all
countries,” Sandy Mehta, chief executive officer of investment
advisory firm Value Investment Principals Ltd. in  Hong Kong ,
said by telephone. “Everyone’s image has been tarnished as
regulators are struggling to keep up with markets.”  Submission Panel  Sibor, used to price debt ranging from commercial term-loans to home mortgages, is calculated on behalf of the
Association of Banks in Singapore, based on submissions by banks
including London-based  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , Singapore’s DBS
Group Holdings Ltd. and New York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
Edinburgh-based RBS last year withdrew from the panel.  Lenny Feder, chairman of the SFEMC and group head of
financial markets at London-based  Standard Chartered , didn’t
return three calls to his mobile phone. John Lim, an external
spokesman for the Association of Banks, declined to comment.  The monetary authority isn’t planning to impose criminal
sanctions on the banks or any employees, said two of the people.
MAS will probably require some of the banks to set aside funds
as a deposit with the central bank for a period of time and
strengthen their internal controls, two people said.  Members of the currency traders’ committee met on Jan. 22
to examine a proposal to end Singapore’s U.S. dollar-linked
Sibor, a person with knowledge of the matter said in February.
The central bank will probably announce changes to the benchmark
rates and the process for setting them by the end of June, the
person said at the time.  Currency Derivatives  Singapore  in September also expanded its review to include
non-deliverable forwards, a derivative used by traders to
speculate on the movement of currencies that are subject to
domestic restrictions. UBS, based in Zurich, and RBS suspended
at least three traders in Singapore as part of probes into the
manipulation of those rates, two people with knowledge of the
matter said in October.  Unlike foreign exchange forward contracts, where two
parties agree to physically exchange currencies at a set rate at
a specific date in the future, NDF traders settle the net
position in U.S. dollars. Who pays and how much at the end of
the contract is determined by reference to a fixing rate which
in some jurisdictions is set, like Libor, by a survey of banks.  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) , which is among
the banks submitting NDF rates in Singapore, has “fully
cooperated” in the review by the central bank, Libby Armstrong,
a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman for the bank, said in an e-mailed
response to questions. “MAS will be releasing their findings
shortly, at which time we will be able to comment further.”  At 17 other banks including Bank of America Corp., Credit
Suisse Group AG, Barclays and  Citigroup Inc. (C) , spokesmen and
spokeswomen either declined to comment or didn’t immediately
respond to e-mails and phone calls.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  