-- Snowden Seeking Legal Help in Hong Kong, Oriental Daily Reports
-- B y   A i b i n g   G u o
-- 2013-06-12T07:26:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/snowden-seeking-legal-help-in-hong-kong-oriental-daily-reports.html
Edward Snowden, the 29-year-old U.S.
contractor who says he leaked details of an electronic
surveillance program, may be seeking legal help in  Hong Kong 
after checking out of a hotel in the Chinese city on Monday.  Snowden is trying to contact Hong Kong-based human rights
organizations and lawyers for help, the Oriental Daily News, a
Hong Kong-based Chinese language newspaper, reported today,
without naming its sources. Hong Kong Human Rights Monitor has
not received any message from Snowden, the paper said.  He left the Mira Hotel in Hong Kong’s Kowloon district at
lunchtime on Monday, according to the U.K.’s Guardian newspaper
yesterday, which reported that he is thought to be in a safe
house. The city’s immigration department has no record of him
departing, according to another Hong Kong newspaper  Apple Daily ,
which cited unidentified sources.  Hong Kong’s Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying, currently on
an official visit to  New York , declined yesterday to  answer 
questions by reporters about how his government would handle the
case.  The American identified himself as the source of reports in
the Guardian and the Washington Post about the U.S. surveillance
program, prompting U.S. House Speaker  John Boehner  to call him
“a traitor” whose disclosure “put Americans at risk.”
Boehner spoke on ABC News’s “Good Morning America.”  Snowden was a former technical assistant for the Central
Intelligence Agency and had worked for the  National Security
Agency  in the past four years for contractors including  Booz
Allen Hamilton Holding Corp. (BAH) , according to the Guardian and the
Washington Post.  Booz Allen , his most recent employer, said
yesterday Snowden has been fired.  China Holidays  Song Zhe, Commissioner of China’s Ministry of  Foreign
Affairs  in Hong Kong, said yesterday the U.S. government has not
contacted China on the Snowden case, Oriental Daily News
reported. A staff member at China’s Foreign Ministry who
answered the phone yesterday wouldn’t say if there would be an
official statement on the case.  Chinese markets and businesses have been closed for the
past three days for holidays. A June 10 Xinhua News Agency story
about Snowden mainly summarized details from international
media. Hong Kong has a holiday today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aibing Guo in Hong Kong at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Richard Frost at 
 rfrost4@bloomberg.net  