-- Snowden Is Too Hot for China to Handle
-- B y   A d a m   M i n t e r
-- 2013-06-12T19:59:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/snowden-is-too-hot-for-china-to-handle.html
It goes without saying that  China ’s
government welcomes the information that Edward Snowden has
provided on the National Security Agency and its snooping
infrastructure. But does China actually want Snowden to stay in
Hong Kong indefinitely?  The answer isn’t yet clear, but as Hong Kong’s sizable
community of human-rights activists begin to rally around
Snowden’s cause, one can imagine the government in Beijing is
regretting that the whistle-blower showed up at all.  Of the many mysteries surrounding Snowden is why he decided
to flee to Chinese territory. One of his  stated reason s -- that
Hong Kong has “a spirited commitment to free speech” -- is
undeniably true. Yet when it comes to the subject most dear to
Snowden’s heart, an encroaching surveillance state, Hong Kong
 falls short of the U.S.  This is in large part due to a 2006
digital surveillance law approved by a  legislative committee
dominated  by pro-Beijing lawmakers.  Snowden’s view of Hong Kong often seems ill-informed about
China’s encroaching influence on the city, as  when he told  Hong
Kong’s South China Morning Post in an article published today,
“I have had many opportunities to flee HK, but I would rather
stay and fight the United States government in the courts,
because I have faith in Hong Kong’s rule of law.”  Even some Hong Kong rights activists seem bewildered by
this viewpoint. Hong Kong Human Rights Monitor Director Law Yuk-kai told the South China Morning Post that, “Snowden’s positive
view of Hong Kong no longer matches the reality.” This is the
sort of thing a former NSA contractor should know in passing, if
not in detail.  So far, the Chinese government and the leading Communist
Party newspapers that speak for it have been silent on the
Snowden case. In part, the reticence can be blamed on a three-day national holiday that began Monday. Yet there are hints via
pro-Beijing loyalists in Hong Kong that a strong preference
exists for him to leave before his seemingly inevitable court
case becomes a cause in the city. On Monday, Regina Ip Lau Suk-yee, Hong Kong’s former chief security officer and a well-known
Beijing loyalist,  told Hong Kong’s Daily Standard  that it was in
Snowden’s “best interest to leave Hong Kong.”  What’s becoming clear is that it’s in China’s best interest
that Snowden leave Hong Kong -- and soon. No doubt, on Monday
there was no small amount of gloating in Beijing at the thought
of a former U.S. intelligence analyst contemplating asylum on
Chinese territory. But that satisfaction likely gave way to a
wary recognition that Snowden is an advocate for digital privacy
and against the surveillance state. Whatever benefit he might
serve as an intelligence asset, or as a source of national
prestige, is outweighed by the prospect of the world’s most
famous whistle-blower living out his days in Hong Kong with
nothing better to do than turn his attention to the surveillance
state across the border.  For now, it’s Hong Kong’s activists who are turning their
attention to Snowden. On Saturday, 17 Hong Kong NGOs (and
counting)  will gather to rally  in favor of Snowden, free speech
and the defense of Hong Kong law. Obviously, without Snowden
there would be no rally at all -- a fact that’s likely not lost
on Hong Kong’s Chinese overseers. In coming days, they may not
push publicly to get him out of Hong Kong. But odds are they
won’t stand in the way of his car if it sets out for the
airport.  (Adam Minter is the Shanghai correspondent for the World View
blog and a contributor to the Ticker.  Follow  him on Twitter.)
 