-- Solairedirect Says India Solar Is Cheaper Than Expected
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-06-13T05:22:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/solairedirect-says-india-solar-is-cheaper-than-expected.html
Solairedirect SA, a French developer
that won an Indian solar project with a record-low bid, said
 India  offers greater cost savings than expected for investors in
sun-based power.  The Paris-based company, which completed its first 5-megawatt plant in India in February, found that local suppliers
of structural and engineering services were more competitive
than expected, prompting it to consider ways to drive down costs
in  Europe  as well, said Gaurav Sood, managing director of
Solairedirect’s India unit.  “It made us re-look at our projects in Europe,” Sood said
today in a phone interview from  New Delhi . “We’re even
considering looking at exporting from India.”  India is using competitive auctions to push down solar
power rates to try to avoid the surging renewable subsidies
burdening governments in Europe. Solairedirect won its project
in a December 2011 auction after pledging to sell electricity
from the facility at 7,490 rupees ($129) a megawatt-hour, about
30 percent cheaper than the world average at the time.  Sood said assembling equipment in India from Chinese
components, “favorable payment terms” from suppliers, as well
as a novel approach to financing helped contain costs.  Websol Energy System Ltd. (WESL) , based in Ramnagar, supplied the
cells and modules using imported wafers from  China ’s  Renesola
Ltd. (SOL)  The finished product is insured by  California ’s PowerGuard
Specialty Insurance Services, Sood said.  Paying Upfront  Solairedirect was able to raise affordable loans from the
 State Bank of India  by paying upfront for the plant and applying
for post-construction funding to refinance the project. “We got
financing the day the plant was commissioned,” he said.  Solairedirect plans to bid for further projects in India at
even lower rates, Sood said. It’s participating in an auction in
northern Punjab state for 20 megawatts of capacity and may bid
for as much as 50 megawatts in a tender later this year by the
national government.  The company targets building a portfolio of as much as 400
megawatts in four years followed by the possibility of selling
shares in an initial public offering, Sood said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  