-- South African Fund Sees More Dangote Deals With $7 Billion
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s   a n d   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2013-06-12T13:57:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/south-africa-fund-eyes-dangote-companies-with-7-billion-in-cash.html
The Public Investment Corp.,
 Africa ’s largest asset manager, will consider investing in more
companies linked to Aliko Dangote, the continent’s richest man,
as it seeks to tap industries benefiting from economic growth.  The pension fund this week invested $289.3 million in
Nigeria’s  Dangote Cement Plc (DANGCEM)  to take a 1.5 percent stake and
said the deal will also offer opportunities in Dangote’s sugar,
flour, oil refinery and port operations, Fidelis Madavo, head of
resources at Pretoria-based PIC, wrote by e-mail yesterday.  The fund has as much as $7 billion to invest in Africa and
is targeting as many as 20 listed stocks across industries such
as consumer, infrastructure, telecommunications and agribusiness
as growth rates accelerate, he said. Shares of the group’s sugar
and salt businesses rose as much 10 percent after the comments.  “This rally might be sustained for the next couple of
days,” Lanre Buluro, head of research at Primera Africa
Securities Ltd., said by telephone from Lagos. “I’d like to see
if the PIC will look into other blue chip companies outside of
Dangote in our economy. That would be positive for our market.”  Nigeria’s $269 billion economy, Africa’s largest outside
South Africa, will grow 7.2 percent this year, International
Monetary Fund projections show. That compares with an estimated
5.6 percent growth rate for sub-Saharan Africa.  Dangote Cement  Dangote Cement, Africa’s biggest producer of the building
material, plans to expand significantly throughout sub-Saharan
Africa, Madavo said.  Dangote Sugar Refinery Plc (DANGSUGA)  rose 10 percent,
before closing 0.7 percent higher at 12.85 naira at the 2:30
p.m. close in Lagos, while Dangote-owned  National Salt Company
Nigeria Plc (NASCON)  also added 10 percent, before closing 4.8 percent
higher to a five-year high at 14 naira.  The cement deal “offers the PIC other investment
opportunities in Dangote group portfolio companies,” Madavo
said in the response to questions. The company is “Sub-Saharan
Africa’s largest and most efficient cement producer,” he said.  The Lagos-based cement company, West Africa’s largest by
market value, can produce 19.3 million metric tons in Nigeria,
with plans to increase that to 29 million metric tons by 2015.
Operations will start in Cameroon, Zambia and South Africa in
2014, and the Democratic Republic of Congo in 2015, Chief
Executive Officer Devakumar Edwin said in April.  List Shares  Dangote Cement will probably list shares in  London  in the
fourth quarter of 2014 or first three months of 2015, Dangote
said last month in an interview in Cape Town, where he also said
he’s negotiated $4.25 billion of loans to build a refinery in
Nigeria, Africa’s biggest oil producer.  Dangote has an estimated wealth of $23.1 billion and is the
world’s 25th richest person, according to the Bloomberg
Billionaires’ Index, the majority shareholder of Dangote Cement,
Dangote Sugar and National Salt. Last year he sold a majority
state in  Dangote Flour Mills Plc (DANGFLOU) , which gained 9.9 percent
today, to  Tiger Brands Ltd. (TBS) , South Africa’s largest food company
by market value.  Dangote Cement’s stock  has advanced 55 percent this year to
199 naira, compared with a 29 percent rise of the  Nigerian Stock
Exchange All-Share Index (NGSEINDX) , the world’s fifth-best performer. The
company’s stock rose as much as 3.3 percent, before declining
5.2 percent at the close in Lagos.  The PIC began expanding in the continent when it invested
$250 million in Togolese lender  Ecobank Transnational Inc. (ETI)  in
2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg  at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net ;
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  