-- Spain Core Inflation Accelerates Amid Lingering Recession
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2013-06-12T07:04:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/spain-core-inflation-accelerates-amid-lingering-recession.html
Spain’s core  inflation  rose from an
eight-month low in May, hindering Premier  Mariano Rajoy ’s
efforts to end a recession in the fourth-largest economy in the
euro region as budget cuts and a record  jobless  rate sap demand.  Core  inflation , which excludes energy and fresh-food
prices, was 2 percent last month, compared with 1.9 percent in
April, the National Statistics Institute in Madrid said today.
That’s more than the median of four forecasts in a Bloomberg
 survey  which was for an unchanged rate. Overall consumer prices
rose 1.7 percent from the previous month.  Spain’s headline inflation rate, based on European Union
calculations, was 1.8 percent in line with a preliminary
estimate on May 30.  The  European Central Bank  has left its benchmark interest
rate unchanged at a record low of 0.5 percent after the euro
region’s  gross domestic product  contracted for a sixth quarter
in the first three months of the year. Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro last month said he expects inflation to be closer to
zero percent than one percent in a few months in Spain.  Chief operating officer  Carlos Tavares  of France’s second-largest carmaker  Renault SA (RNO)  expects the European car market to
shrink 5 percent this year. Spanish new car registrations fell
5.8 percent from a year ago over the five first months of the
year, according to Spain’s automobile organization Anfac while
the country’s industrial output declined a 20th month in April.  European Union leaders meeting this month in Brussels will
decide on the European Commission’s proposal to give Spain two
more years, until 2016, to tackle the EU’s  largest budget 
deficit. International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  this month urged less “brutal” fiscal consolidation in
Spain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in  Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  