-- State Department Memo Cites Hearsay on Sexual Misconduct
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-06-13T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/state-department-memo-cites-hearsay-describing-sexual-misconduct.html
A U.S. State Department document
alleging sex crimes, secret affairs and interference with
investigations has Congress demanding answers about the way a
second federal agency handles reports of sexual misconduct.  The four-page memo acknowledges that some of the
information came from second-hand sources, says “stories
differ” about whether supervisors intruded into one case and
cites what it calls a “rumor” about another incident.  The internal memo from the State Department inspector
general’s staff says inspectors hadn’t reviewed case files.
Allegations, it says, were drawn from interviews with personnel
from the department’s Bureau of Diplomatic Security, which
investigates internal malfeasance, including agents passing
along information they’d heard “from colleagues in what, given
cubicles, can be a collegial environment.”  The State Department memo became public as the Pentagon
fights criticism that the military hasn’t been aggressive enough
in prosecuting or preventing sexual assaults in the ranks.  “I am deeply troubled by the allegations,” House Foreign
Affairs Committee Chairman Ed Royce, a California Republican,
said in a letter June 11 to Secretary of State John Kerry. “The
notion that any or all of these cases would not be investigated
thoroughly by the department is unacceptable.”  Asked about the issue yesterday, Kerry told reporters that
all State Department employees “are held to the highest
standards of behavior” and that he’s confident about the
inspector general’s decision to have outsiders conduct a review.
“The department welcomes that because we do want the highest
standards applied,” he said.  Kerry Deadline  Royce gave Kerry a June 25 deadline to identify any State
Department officials who may have stymied investigations and to
turn over documents and communications involving eight cases
cited in the memo, which was first reported by CBS News. The
memo was written when Hillary Clinton led the department as
secretary of state.  The October 2012 inspector general’s memo contains
“unsubstantiated accusations,” State Department spokeswoman
Jen Psaki said June 11.  “Prior to the drafting of this memo, the Department’s
Bureau of Diplomatic Security had already started looking into
or completed the process of looking into these individual
incidents,” Psaki said at a briefing. “All of these cases have
been or will be brought to their logical conclusions.”  Affairs Reported  The memo, written in connection with an assessment of
Diplomatic Security operations, describes reports that a married
agent stationed in  Baghdad  had conducted an affair with his
female subordinate and “numerous” affairs with men,
“presenting counterintelligence concerns.”  It passes along allegations that a U.S. ambassador
solicited sex from prostitutes and children and charges that
security agents assigned to protect Clinton consorted with
prostitutes in the same hotel where the secretary of state was
staying.  Aurelia Fedenisn, a retired State Department inspector
general’s investigator who brought the memo to light, has said
senior State and Diplomatic Security officials discouraged
further investigation into these cases.  “We expect to see influence, but the degree to which that
influence existed and how high up it went was very disturbing,”
she told CBS in an interview, which didn’t describe the sources
of the information.  ‘Allegedly’ Interceded  The memo says Cheryl Mills, who was Clinton’s chief of
staff, “allegedly” interceded to keep agents from interviewing
Brett McGurk about charges he shared e-mails with a reporter in
 Iraq  in 2008, during President George W. Bush’s administration.
In June 2012, McGurk withdrew his name from consideration to be
U.S. ambassador to Iraq after e-mails to the reporter were
posted on the Web.  The allegation “doesn’t make sense” because McGurk
“completely cooperated and subsequently met with DS twice to
help them complete their work,” Clinton spokesman Nicholas
Merrill said June 11 in an e-mail. A State Department official,
who wasn’t authorized to speak publicly, corroborated Merrill’s
comments and said Diplomatic Security has completed its
investigation. McGurk remains at the State Department in good
standing, the official said.  The memo was part of a regular review to see how well the
State Department’s Bureau of  Diplomatic Security  manages
internal investigations. The bureau also protects the secretary
of state at all times and diplomats when they are abroad,  ‘Mentioned Cases’  “Here are brief summaries of the mentioned cases which
came up in interviews of personnel” assigned to Diplomatic
Security’s investigative arm, the memo starts.  “To date, inspectors have not reviewed any of the case
files,” it says. “The sources of information sometimes are one
or more agents assigned to the case. Sometimes the sources are
one or more other agents who became aware of the case from
colleagues in what, given cubicles, can be a collegial
environment.”  Nothing from the memo made its way into a public report in
March 2013. The report found that DS, as the security operation
is known inside the agency, “lacks clearly stated professional
investigative standards for investigative functions” and lacks
“independence, both in fact and appearance, from undue
influence by higher authorities concerning the opening and
conduct of cases.”  Psaki, who wouldn’t comment on individual cases mentioned
in the memo, said June 11 that the Diplomatic Security bureau is
now undergoing a review by outside law-enforcement experts in
response to the report. The State Department takes “every
allegation seriously,” she said.  ‘Sexual Favors’  The memo said that one agent “determined” that an
ambassador based in Europe “routinely ditched his security
detail in order to solicit sexual favors from both prostitutes
and minor children.” The ambassador’s security detail and
agents provided by the host country were “well aware” of the
behavior, the memo said.  The  New York  Post on June 11 identified the man as Howard
Gutman, the U.S. ambassador to  Belgium . Gutman released a
statement June 11 saying that he was “angered and saddened by
the baseless allegations that have appeared in the press.”
Gutman said it was “devastating” to see his four years of
service “smeared.”  The memo claims that the agent looking into the allegations
was told to stop the investigation and submit a memo to Under
Secretary for Management Patrick Kennedy.  ‘My Responsibility’  Kennedy, a State Department veteran of more than 40 years,
released a statement saying that “it is my responsibility to
make sure the department and all of our employees -- no matter
their rank -- are held to the highest standard, and I have never
once interfered, nor would I condone interfering, in any
investigation.”  Gutman, who remains in his post, raised at least $500,000
for President  Barack Obama ’s 2008 election campaign, according
to the Washington-based Center for Responsive Politics, which
tracks campaign finances. Presidents of both parties often name
big fundraisers to plum diplomatic posts.  A more PG-rated accusation involves a woman agent, with
three children, who was accused of claiming full-time pay for
several years while putting in minimal hours.  Diplomatic Security managers “appear to have taken pity”
on the agent and “preemptively moved to preclude both criminal
charges and administrative penalties,” the memo says. As a
result, it says the woman “will have a ‘clean’ record if she
subsequently applies for another law-enforcement job.”  Most cases mentioned in the memo cite allegations that
officials within the Diplomatic Security bureau hindered probes.
Most of the focus has been on higher-ranking political
officials, with Royce seeking the names of State Department
officials who instructed Diplomatic Security not to pursue any
of the eight cases identified in the memo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  