-- Stock-Market Volatility Bets at Record Amid Fed Concern: Options
-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2013-06-12T14:03:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/stock-market-volatility-bets-at-record-amid-fed-concern-options.html
Widening swings in U.S. shares have
prompted  options (VXX)  traders to make unprecedented bets on equity
 volatility , pushing bullish and bearish contracts to records
amid concern the  Federal Reserve  will curtail stimulus.  Options outstanding on the iPath S&P 500  VIX (VIX)  Short-Term
Futures ETN, tracking a gauge of VIX futures, climbed to an all-time high of 3.46 million on June 6, based on data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index,
a gauge of derivative prices for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index, has gained 51 percent since a six-year low in March.  Investors are using contracts on the VIX note to hedge
stock-market swings as they look for clues in economic data and
statements from policy makers on whether the Fed’s bond
purchases will be maintained or reduced. The  S&P 500  has risen
or fallen more than 1 percent four times during the past 10
days, the most in a month.  “These spikes before large economic events are becoming
much more common now because all eyes are on the Fed,” Stephen Solaka, who oversees about $75 million including options as co-founder of Belmont Capital Group in  Los Angeles , said by phone
yesterday. “You have people playing both sides of these events
for large up or down moves in volatility.”  The VIX jumped 7.6 percent to 17.50 on June 5 as a jobs
report from ADP Research Institute and factory data missed
estimates. The gauge tumbled 9 percent two days later after
stocks rallied on employment data from the Labor Department that
beat economists’ estimates.  Outstanding Options  The number of outstanding options on the VIX ETN, the  most-traded  security tracking volatility in the U.S., has risen 13
percent since the May 17 expiration. Daily volume in the ETN
averaged 48.2 million during the past 30 days, compared with 15
million a year ago.  The  S&P 500 (SPX)  is down 2.6 percent from a May 21 record on
concern the Fed will consider withdrawing stimulus that has
helped lift the index up 140 percent since March 2009. A survey
of economists showed last week that the policy makers will trim
bond purchases to $65 billion a month from the current $85
billion at the Oct. 29-30 meeting of the  Federal Open Market
Committee , according to the median estimate.  The U.S. volatility index lost 1 percent to 16.90 at 10:01
a.m. in New York today. The gauge is still 17 percent below its
23-year historical average of 20.32. Its European counterpart,
the VStoxx Index, rose 0.6 percent to 21.14.  Calls, Puts  The number of outstanding calls on the Barclays Plc’s iPath
volatility exchange-traded note jumped 25 percent to 1.01
million since the May 17 options expiration, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. During that time, put open interest increased
7.6 percent to 2.04 million.  All 10 most-owned contracts on the ETN were puts.  Equity volatility may be subdued in the coming months as
steady earnings growth supports stock prices, according to Giri Cherukuri, head trader and portfolio manager at Oakbrook
Investments LLC. Profits for companies in the S&P 500 will rise
6.6 percent this year and 11 percent next year, according to
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “You have on the one hand economic growth, which needs to
pick up, and then you have on the other hand the Fed stimulus,
which needs to slow down,” Cherukuri said in a phone interview
yesterday from Lisle,  Illinois , where he helps manage $3.5
billion. That will help “the market while keeping volatility
down,” he said.  Short Selling  Investors boosted bets that volatility will decrease after
the  bull market  entered a fifth year with the S&P 500 surging 14
percent in 2013.  Short selling , the practice of selling borrowed
stock on hopes the price will decline, rose to 18.7 million
shares on June 10 from 7.7 million at the end of 2012, according
to London-based research firm Markit.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said during a response to
questions following congressional testimony on May 22 that the
central bank could consider reducing the monthly Treasury and
mortgage debt purchases within “the next few meetings” if
officials see signs of sustained improvement in the labor
market. Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser  has called
for tapering the stimulus as soon as the central bank’s next
meeting on June 18-19.  “Investor concerns of Fed tapering are considerably higher
than anytime else in 2013,” Scott Maidel, who helps oversee
more than $173 billion as an equity-derivatives money manager at
Russell Investments in  Seattle , said yesterday in an interview.
“Longer-dated volatility hedging using futures and options is
picking up.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in London at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in  New York  at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  