-- ‘Major Severe Weather’ Forecast for Upper U.S. Midwest Today
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-06-12T20:12:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/storms-capable-of-producing-derecho-possible-in-midwest-today.html
A powerful storm system capable of
toppling trees, knocking out power and tying up air traffic will
probably start later today with an outbreak of strong tornadoes
across northern  Illinois  and Iowa.  Almost 51 million people from Iowa to the Atlantic are
under threat from “major severe” thunderstorms and high winds
through tomorrow, said the  U.S. Storm Prediction Center . About
12 million people, including Chicago residents, are in an area
considered to be at high risk.  A tornado watch, meaning the deadly storms are likely, has
been issued until 9 p.m. local time for parts of Iowa,
Minnesota, Wisconsin and Illinois, and “potentially explosive
thunderstorm development is possible over the next few hours,”
the center said.  “We have a powerful weather system taking shape in the
Midwest,” Russell Schneider, director of the center in Norman,
 Oklahoma , said by telephone. “This is a very significant
weather day for  Chicago  and the upper Midwest, one of the more
severe weather days they will see this year, so people need to
have a plan.”  There is a chance the storms will grow into  a derecho , a
rare event characterized by winds of at least 58 miles (93
kilometers) per hour creating a line of damage at least 240
miles long. A derecho swept through the Midwest into the mid-Atlantic  a year ago , knocking out power to 5 million people from
Chicago to the  District of Columbia  and killing 22, according to
government data.  Storm’s Timing  The most severe weather is expected to start in the Chicago
area about 5 p.m. local time, the  National Weather Service  said.
Gusts as high as 100 mph are possible.  Today’s storms will probably cause widespread power
failures and disrupt air traffic, especially at Chicago’s O’Hare
International Airport and in  Detroit , Schneider said. Airlines
are being warned that extreme turbulence is possible and 3-inch
(8 centimeter) hail is possible on the ground and in the air.  At 2:30 p.m. local time, 108 flights had been canceled at
O’Hare, according to  FlightAware , a Houston-based airline
tracking service.  Derechos are rare because they require a number of smaller
storms “to work together,” Schneider said. More than 75
percent of derechos occur from May to August and they’re most
likely to happen along an axis from the southern  Great Lakes 
southwest into  Texas , according to the storm center.  Flood Alerts  Flood watches, warnings and advisories stretch in an
unbroken string from northern Illinois to Massachusetts. There
is a chance of severe weather later today and overnight along
the Interstate 95 corridor from Philadelphia to Washington, said
 Tom Kines , a meteorologist with AccuWeather Inc. in  State
College ,  Pennsylvania .  Those storms won’t be the main threat, however. A second
round of bad weather, sparked by the system crossing the Midwest
today, will strike the mid-Atlantic tomorrow, Kines said.  An area from central  New Jersey  to northern Virginia,
including Philadelphia, Baltimore and Washington, has a 45
percent chance of high winds, hail and possibly tornadoes,
according to a storm center forecast.  NYC Rain  Kines said New York City and Boston may be spared the worst
weather. The New England states will benefit from cool onshore
winds that will help stabilize the atmosphere, keeping the
severe thunderstorms from forming, he said.  New York  may still receive 2.5 to 3.5 inches of rain, with
some isolated areas getting as much as 5 inches through tomorrow
night, according to the weather service.  Severe thunderstorms and the tornadoes that sometimes
accompany them caused $15 billion in insured losses in 2012 and
$25 billion in 2011, according to the  Insurance Information
Institute  in New York.  From 1992 to 2011, thunderstorms and tornadoes accounted
for the second-highest amount of catastrophic loss in the U.S.,
$130.2 billion, topped only by hurricanes and tropical storms
with $161.3 billion, the institute said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  