-- Sugar Daddy Drinks as AT&T Chases Airwaves Aid of Senator
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s   a n d   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2013-06-12T16:41:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/sugar-daddy-drinks-as-at-t-chases-airwaves-aid-of-senator.html
Lobbyists for  Verizon Wireless  and
 AT&T (T)  Inc. can sip $11 Sugar Daddy cocktails tonight to help
Senator  John Thune , a lawmaker with influence over one of their
top priorities: getting more airwaves.  The  fundraiser  for Thune’s political action committee at
Del Frisco’s Grille is one way the two largest wireless carriers
can help a fellow opponent of Democratic plans to help  Sprint
Nextel Corp. (S)  and  T-Mobile (TMUS)  US Inc. win airwaves at a U.S. auction
next year.  As the top Republican on the Commerce Committee, which
oversees communications policy, Thune, of South Dakota, is in a
position to hold up legislation or block President  Barack Obama ’s nominees to the Federal Communications Commission, which
will run the auction.  “You have two of the biggest players on spectrum talking
to a member of Congress who has some influence over the issue,”
 Bill Allison , editorial director of the Sunlight Foundation, a
Washington-based group that promotes government transparency,
said in an interview. “That’s why they’re holding the event, so
they can reach out and touch him.”  Washington Rules  Lobbying surrounding the airwaves sale shows how rules are
crafted in Washington, where companies with competing interests
use fundraisers and ply longstanding relationships with
regulators, lawmakers and their staffs. U.S. wireless companies
want more airwaves, and the  Justice Department  has called for
restricting large carriers during the spectrum auction.  “The way this ought to operate, to maximize the return on
the auction, is to allow everybody to compete,” Thune said in
an interview. “There shouldn’t be all these conditions imposed
from on top, which is kind of what the administration is trying
to do.”  Diners at  Del Frisco’s , on Pennsylvania Avenue between the
White House and the Capitol, may start with the Sugar Daddy
(featuring tequila, lime juice and guava juice). They can talk
airwaves over crab cakes with tomato, basil & Cajun lobster
sauce, priced on the menu at $36, or a $29  New York  strip steak
with fresh tomato-basil salsa and aged balsamic reduction.  Those with endurance can move on to dessert with an Adult
Milkshake made of walnut and creme de cacao liqueurs, and
vanilla ice cream.  AT&T, Verizon  The prices are small compared to what’s at stake for
wireless companies. The FCC’s auction is to be the largest since
a 2008 sale drew bids totaling $19.6 billion -- with more than
80 percent coming from AT&T and Verizon. The 2014 sale may reap
$15.2 billion, according to the  Congressional Budget Office .  The airwaves planned for auction travel far and penetrate
buildings, making them particularly suitable for smartphones.
The U.S. hasn’t scheduled any similar sales.  If the auction aims to raise as much money as possible, it
would be “a big gamble” to inhibit some companies in the hope
that others bid for airwaves, AT&T Chief Executive Officer
 Randall Stephenson  said during a discussion today at the
 Brookings Institution , a Washington-based research group that
analyzes public policy.  T-Mobile has argued otherwise, saying in a June 5  blog
posting  that limits can encourage more companies to take part,
“and likely would bring in more revenue for U.S. taxpayers than
the lopsided auction AT&T favors.”  ‘Last Train’  “It’s the last train for the really good spectrum,”
 Harold Feld , senior vice president of the Washington-based
policy group  Public Knowledge , said in an interview. “This is
the last chance for Sprint and T-Mobile and anyone else who
wants to be competitive to get the good stuff.”  The prospect has driven lobbying by large and small
wireless companies -- and sharpened tongues.  The Justice Department in an April 11 filing to the FCC
backed rules restricting the largest buyers. That would amount
to unlawfully “rigging spectrum auctions to favor Sprint and T-Mobile,”  Wayne Watts , AT&T’s general counsel, said in an April
24 filing.  Not so, according to  Steven Berry , president of the
 Competitive Carriers Association , a Washington-based trade group
with members including Sprint and T-Mobile.  Without restrictions, “your auction rules really become,
let the big dog eat and let him eat as much as he wants,” Berry
said in an interview. “You need rules limiting how much any one
carrier can get in a market.”  Partisan Lines  Reactions to the Justice Department position have run along
partisan lines -- as have political contributions from mobile
carriers. Republicans who have attracted more donations from
AT&T and Verizon criticized auction limits, and Democrats
getting funding from Sprint and T-Mobile defended them.  Six  House Republicans , led by Representative  Fred Upton  of
Michigan, chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, told
the FCC in an April 19 letter the agency “should not pick
winners and losers” because that may reduce auction revenue.
Upton received $5,000 donations from the AT&T and Verizon PACs
three weeks before he sent the letter. Sean Bonyun, a spokesman
for Upton, declined to comment.  The six Republicans received $45,000 from the AT&T and
Verizon PACs this year, Federal Election Commission records
show. The PACs of Sprint and T-Mobile gave $15,000.  Michael Balmoris, a spokesman for Dallas-based AT&T, and Ed McFadden, a spokesman for Verizon, declined to comment.  Democratic Stance  Democrats responded in a May 16 letter. Six lawmakers led
by Representative  Henry Waxman  of California, the commerce
committee’s top Democrat, said the FCC may restrict bidding in
the auction. Only one of those lawmakers, Representative Doris Matsui of California, received a AT&T PAC contribution this year
-- $2,000. None received support from Verizon.  The six Democrats received a total of $27,000 so far this
year from PACs run by Sprint and T-Mobile.  Timothy O’Regan, a T-Mobile spokesman, and  John Taylor , a
Sprint spokesman, declined to comment.  AT&T’s PAC contributed $730,700 to campaigns from January
to April. That’s three times the amount donated to members by
the PACs of Bellevue, Washington-based T-Mobile and Sprint, of
Overland Park, Kansas, combined. New York-based Verizon won’t
file its first 2013 report until July.  Tonight’s dinner at Del Frisco’s is benefiting Thune’s
 Heartland Values PAC , according to an invitation to the event
posted on the website of the Sunlight Foundation. An event
organizer, Paula Dukes, declined to comment.  Carve Outs  Thune said he had attracted contributions from people on
both sides of the issue. He said one approach may be to carve
out discrete geographic areas for bidding, to give a chance to
smaller companies that can’t afford to bid on large swathes with
millions of subscribers.  Leadership PACs like Heartland Value provide a way for
interest groups to give lawmakers money outside regular campaign
contributions. The money can be used for travel around the
country and contributing to colleagues’ campaigns.  In addition to the AT&T and Verizon PACs, other groups
hosting the event include the PACs of two Washington-based trade
groups that include AT&T and Verizon as members: US Telecom,
representing wired communications companies, and CTIA-The
Wireless Association. Sprint and T-Mobile are also members of
the wireless association.  Acting FCC Chairwoman Mignon Clyburn encouraged “all
stakeholders to engage constructively” in an e-mailed statement
as the agency with a Democratic majority sets rules.  Clyburn is running the agency while the Senate considers
Obama’s nomination of Tom Wheeler, a former industry lobbyist,
as the permanent chairman. A commission position reserved for a
Republican is also vacant, leaving the FCC with three members.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at   bkohn2@bloomberg.net  