-- U.K. Stocks Drop for Third Day as Severn Trent Falls
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2013-06-12T15:53:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/u-k-stocks-are-little-changed-after-two-day-drop.html
U.K. stocks  declined to the lowest
level in more than seven weeks as concern grew that central
banks may scale back stimulus measures and as Greek politicians
wrangled over the closure of the nation’s broadcaster.  Severn Trent Plc (SVT)  slid the most in more than 6 1/2 years as
a consortium abandoned an offer for the water utility.  Vodafone
Group Plc (VOD)  fell 2.2 percent after confirming it approached Kabel
Deutschland Holding AG about a takeover.  British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  gained 1.4 percent after Banco Espirito
Santo SA said it may get a new bid from  News Corp. (NWSA)   The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  dropped 40.63 points, or 0.6 percent, to
6,299.45 at the close in London, the lowest level since April
22. The equity benchmark has lost 7.9 percent  since  Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said May 22 that the central
bank may scale back stimulus if the U.S. economy improves
sustainably. The broader FTSE All-Share Index fell 0.6 percent
today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index retreated 0.5 percent.  “Talks of quantitative-easing tapering and the
ramifications of that carries on affecting the markets,” said
Gerard Lane, a strategist at Shore Capital Group Ltd. in
Liverpool, England. “My belief is that markets are at levels
they shouldn’t be, given the economic momentum and company
earnings. They are only there because of quantitative easing.”  Vodafone and Johnson Matthey Plc traded without the rights
to their latest dividend today, shaving off 13.7 points from the
FTSE 100.  Draft Law  Stocks extended declines as members of  Greece ’s Pasok and
Democratic Left parties submitted a draft law for the parliament
to revoke a government decision to shut down the nation’s public
broadcaster ERT overnight. The two parties make up the coalition
along with Prime Minister Antonis Samaras’s New Democracy.  Separately, MSCI Inc. lowered Greece’s status to an
emerging market from a developed country. The country failed to
meet criteria regarding securities borrowing and lending
facilities, short selling and transferability, according to a
statement late yesterday.  “The sudden closure of the country’s state broadcaster,
ERT, to save taxpayer money, no less, and the relegation of
Greek equities to the emerging market sector has seen the
country back in the headlines and for all the wrong reasons,”
wrote Brenda Kelly, a market strategist at IG in London.  Jobless claims in the U.K. fell 8,600 to 1.51 million in
May from the previous month, leaving the rate at 4.5 percent,
the  Office for National Statistics  said today in London.
Economists had forecast a drop of 5,000.  Severn Trent  Severn Trent slid 8.9 percent to 1,765 pence, its biggest
drop since October 2006. A bidding group led by Canada’s
Borealis Infrastructure Management Inc. declined to make an
offer for the company by the 5 p.m. deadline yesterday.  The consortium said June 10 it would not make a further
proposal in the absence of “meaningful engagement” from Severn
Trent. LongRiver Partners, a part of the group, said it decided
against increasing its pre-conditional offer as no such
engagement occurred before the deadline expired.  Vodafone slipped 2.2 percent to 181 pence as the shares
traded without the rights to a 6.9 pence dividend today. The
world’s second-biggest wireless carrier said it has made a
“preliminary approach” to Kabel Deutschland to discuss
acquiring the German cable operator to expand in the broadband
and TV markets.  BSkyB advanced 1.4 percent to 788.5 pence after  Espirito
Santo  wrote in a note the British broadcaster may receive a new
bid from News Corp. as the company owned by  Rupert Murdoch  won
shareholders’ approval to spin off its publishing unit.  Heritage Oil Plc (HOIL)  advanced 4.6 percent to 142.4 pence after
saying it has successfully addressed “temporary factors” that
led to lower-than-estimated production levels at the fields in
its OML 30 oil mining lease in Nigeria.  BT Group Plc (BT/A)  added 1.4 percent to 309.3 pence as Credit
Suisse Group AG raised its share-price estimate to 350 pence
from 300 pence. The brokerage maintained an outperform rating,
saying that the U.K.’s biggest fixed-line company has the
potential to cut costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in  London  at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  