-- U.K. Lawmakers Slam Google Over ‘Contrived’ Tax Strategy
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   J e s s e   D r u c k e r
-- 2013-06-13T11:37:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/u-k-lawmakers-slam-google-over-contrived-tax-strategy.html
U.K. lawmakers attacked  Google Inc. (GOOG) 
for defending a “highly contrived” strategy of booking
advertising sales through Ireland to reduce its tax liability in
Britain.  Parliament’s Public Accounts Committee said in a report
published in London today that “public confidence” in the
company “will only be restored when it establishes a corporate
structure that ensures Google pays tax where it generates
profit.”  The cross-party panel attacked British tax officials for
not challenging Google, which it said paid $16 million in U.K.
corporation tax between 2006 and 2011 on $18 billion of revenue.
It urged leading accounting firms to “provide responsible
advice” instead of focusing on “artificial structures which
serve only to avoid tax.” U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  is
pushing for a global agreement to overhaul company taxes at next
week’s Group of Eight summit in  Northern Ireland .  “Google brazenly argued before this committee that its tax
arrangements in the U.K. are defensible and lawful,” the
panel’s chairwoman,  Margaret Hodge  from the opposition  Labour
Party , said in an e-mailed statement. “It claimed that its
advertising sales take place in Ireland, not in the U.K. The
company’s highly contrived tax arrangement has no purpose other
than to enable the company to avoid U.K. corporation tax.”  Even so, Hodge said she didn’t wish to “single out”
Google,  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  or  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  for criticism over
their arrangement to minimize tax, as these are “illustrative
of a much wider problem.”  ‘Double Irish’  Mountain View , California-based Google, the owner of the
world’s most popular search engine, has avoided billions of
dollars of income taxes around the world using a pair of shelter
strategies known to lawyers as the “Double Irish” and “Dutch
Sandwich,” as first reported by Bloomberg in October of 2010.  Google’s overall effective tax rate dropped to 19.4 percent
last year. That compares with the average combined U.S. and
state statutory rate of about 39 percent.  Though the company sells advertising throughout  Europe , it
attributes nearly all of the revenue to an Irish subsidiary,
called Google Ireland Ltd. In 2011, for example, that Dublin-based entity reported more than $16 billion in sales.  The strategy has helped the company pare its income taxes
in its major European markets.  The committee called Google’s argument that its sales to
U.K. clients take place in Ireland “deeply unconvincing,”
saying most of the sales revenue is generated by staff in
Britain.  Politicians’ Rules  “Google complies with all the tax rules in the U.K., and
it is the politicians who make those rules,” the company said
in an e-mailed statement. “It’s clear from this report that the
Public Accounts Committee wants to see international companies
paying more tax where their customers are located, but that’s
not how the rules operate today. We welcome the call to make the
current system simpler and more transparent.”  Google’s strategy does not just move income out of the
countries where its customers are located and into Dublin. The
company then moves nearly all of that profit into a second
subsidiary in  Bermuda , which has no corporate income tax.  The rights to Google’s patents for use outside of the U.S.
belong to that second unit, which claims Bermuda as its
residence for tax purposes, company filings show. That entity is
technically an Irish company.  In 2011, Google paid nearly $10 billion in royalties to
that Bermuda subsidiary, helping to cut its overall reported tax
expense by about $2 billion, according to company filings in the
U.S. and the Netherlands.  The “Double Irish” nickname stems from the use of these
two Irish units. To avoid an Irish withholding tax, the company
used to route those payments through a subsidiary with no
employees in the Netherlands -- hence, the “Dutch Sandwich.”  During a committee hearing last month, Hodge told Google’s
vice president for sales and operations in northern and central
Europe, Matt Brittin, that “your company says you don’t do
evil; you do do evil, you use smoke and mirrors.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in  London  at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Drucker in Rome at 
 jdrucker4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  