-- U.S. Money Laundering Fines Seen Rising in 2013 With Iran Focus
-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 2013-06-12T04:25:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/u-s-money-laundering-fines-seen-rising-in-2013-with-iran-focus.html
The number of U.S. penalties this
year against financial firms laundering money will surpass those
of 2012 as President  Barack Obama ’s sanctions against  Iran 
target its currency, according to consultant  BankersAccuity .  Following  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ’s record settlement with the
U.S. and those of  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  and  ING Groep NV (INGA)  last
year, the government will take a wider focus including smaller
firms, said Henry Balani, managing director at BankersAccuity,
whose services include anti-money laundering advice. Firms may
pay smaller penalties this year, he said.  The U.S. Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control, which
enforces economic and trade sanctions, this year has already
issued 11  penalties , all except two related to Iran sanctions,
according to its website. That compares with a total of 16 last
year. Obama on June 3 signed an executive order that would
penalize foreign financial firms conducting transactions for the
purchase or sale of the Iranian rial -- his ninth such order
pressuring the country to halt its nuclear program.  “Regulators focused on high-profile banks last year,”
Balani said in a telephone interview from  London  yesterday.
“Now that the message has been sent, regulators will take a
wider sweep.”  HSBC, Europe’s largest bank, on Dec. 11 agreed to pay $1.92
billion to settle U.S. probes that it laundered funds of
sanctioned nations including Iran. It was the largest such
accord, topping the $619 million in penalties paid in June by
the Netherlands’s ING. Standard Chartered agreed to pay $667
million to U.S. regulators after they alleged it violated
sanctions against Iran, making a final settlement in December.  The Treasury’s trade sanction penalties this year total
$1.3 million, compared with $1.1 billion last year, according to
its website.  BankersAccuity, based in Skokie, Illinois, also provides
data and software services. The company is a unit of Reed
Business Information Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  