-- U.S. Beats Panama to Lead World Cup Group as Mexico Draws Again
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2013-06-12T04:56:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/u-s-beats-panama-to-lead-world-cup-group-as-mexico-draws-again.html
The U.S. beat  Panama  2-0 to take the
outright lead in its group midway through the final qualifying
round for next year’s soccer  World Cup  as  Mexico  tied 0-0 at
home for the third straight game.  Jozy Altidore and Eddie Johnson scored for the U.S. in the
first World Cup qualifier to be played in  Seattle  for 37 years.
Also last night in the six-nation group, Honduras beat last-place  Jamaica  2-0.  The U.S. has 10 points through five of 10 games, two more
than  Costa Rica  and Mexico, which has drawn five of its six
matches. Honduras has seven points, one more than Panama, and
Jamaica has two points from six games.  The top three teams in the North, Central America and
Caribbean region advance to the 32-nation tournament in  Brazil ,
with the fourth-place finisher entering a two-game playoff
against New Zealand, the winner of the Oceania group. Soccer’s
global championship is scheduled from June 12 to July 13, 2014.  After failing to qualify from 1954 through 1986, the U.S.
has played at every World Cup since 1990, making the
quarterfinals in 2002 and the round of 16 in 1994 and 2010.  U.S. coach Juergen Klinsmann reacted furiously when Mexican
referee Roberto Garcia Orozco declined an appeal for a penalty
kick when Altidore was upended in the 34th minute at CenturyLink
Field last night.  U.S. Goals  The home team took the lead on its next attack.  Michael Bradley  gained possession near the center circle and drove
forward before finding Fabian Johnson on the left of the penalty
area. His low cross was met by Altidore at the far post.  The U.S. doubled its advantage eight minutes into the
second half. Geoff Cameron sent a pass from near the center spot
over the Panama defense and Johnson controlled the ball with one
touch before slipping it past goalkeeper Jaime Penedo.  Johnson, who plays his home games in  Major League Soccer  at
the same stadium for the Seattle Sounders, has now scored 11
goals in World Cup qualifiers, one fewer than the U.S. record
held jointly by  Landon Donovan  and  Clint Dempsey .  The victory extended the U.S.’s unbeaten run at home in
World Cup qualifying to 24 matches stretching back to 2001.  The next qualifier for the Americans is against Honduras on
June 18 at Rio Tinto Stadium in Salt Lake City.  Delayed Start  The start of Mexico’s game was delayed 10 minutes because
the driver of the Costa Rica team coach got lost on the way to
the 104,000-seat Azteca Stadium in Mexico City.  Costa Rica had the better of the chances in the first half.
Joel Campbell struck a post with a shot and drew a diving save
from Mexico goalkeeper Jose Corona with another before captain
Brian Ruiz’s first-time drive flew just over the bar four
minutes before halftime.  Mexico had few chances after the break, with its last good
opportunity coming in the 84th minute. The ball flew narrowly
wide of the Costa Rica goal as  Javier Hernandez  failed to
connect with Gerardo Flores’s flick on from Andres Guardado’s
free kick.  Boos and jeers rang out around the world’s largest soccer
stadium as Mexico failed to score in seven minutes of added time
at the end of the game.  In Honduras, Oscar Garcia gave the home team the lead after
10 minutes against Jamaica and Roger Espinoza added a second
goal two minutes from the end.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 