-- U.S. Natural Gas Drops Third Day on Larger Inventory Outlook
-- B y   C h o u   H u i   H o n g
-- 2013-06-12T03:00:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/u-s-natural-gas-drops-third-day-on-larger-inventory-outlook.html
Natural gas futures dropped for a
third day in New York on speculation that weekly Energy
Information Administration data will show a bigger-than-average
increase in U.S. stockpiles.  Gas for July delivery slid as much as 0.4 percent to $3.71
per million British thermal units in electronic trading on the
New York Mercantile Exchange and was at $3.717 at 11 a.m.
Singapore time. The contract settled at $3.724 yesterday, the
lowest closing price since March 13.  U.S. inventories probably rose 95 billion cubic feet in the
week ended June 7, according to the median  estimate  of nine
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News before a report tomorrow
from the EIA, the Energy Department’s statistics unit. The five-year average gain for the week is 84 billion.  “We’re starting to get some bigger storage numbers and
that doesn’t bode well for higher prices in the future,” Bob Yawger, director of the futures division at Mizuho Securities
USA Inc. in New York, said yesterday. “The market is continuing
to work its way south and there’s no reason to believe it will
find support here.”  WSI Corp. in Andover,  Massachusetts , said temperatures will
be normal or lower than average in the eastern U.S. and northern
Midwest from June 16 through June 25.  The high in New York on June 20 may be 69 degrees
Fahrenheit (21 Celsius), 12 degrees less than usual, according
to AccuWeather Inc. in State College,  Pennsylvania . The high in
 Chicago  may be 70 degrees, also 12 degrees below normal.  Power generators account for 32 percent of U.S. gas demand,
according to the EIA’s monthly Short-Term Energy Outlook
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chou Hui Hong in Singapore at 
 chong43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  