-- U.S. Oil Production Rose at Record Pace on Shale, BP Review Says
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2013-06-12T09:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/u-s-oil-production-rose-at-record-pace-on-shale-bp-review-says.html
U.S. oil production grew at the
fastest pace since  BP Plc (BP/)  started keeping records in 1965 on
unconventional sources such as shale and tight oil.  An increase in output of about 1 million barrels a day
caused net oil imports to the U.S. to drop by 930,000 barrels a
day and imports are now 36 percent below their 2005 peak,
London-based BP said in its annual Statistical Review of World
Energy today. The expansion of both oil and natural gas
production in the U.S. was the fastest in the world last year.  The report highlights the potential scale of unconventional
oil extraction, which involves fracturing underground rocks to
tap resources that otherwise wouldn’t flow to the surface. These
technological advances will limit the influence of OPEC as North
American techniques are replicated in  Russia ,  China  and  Brazil ,
Nansen Saleri, the former head of reservoir management at Saudi
Arabian Oil Co., said yesterday.  “The data show there is ample energy available,” BP Chief
Executive Officer Bob Dudley said in a statement. “Our
challenge as an industry is to make the best choices about where
to invest.”  Growth in global energy consumption slowed to 1.8 percent
last year from 2.4 percent in 2011, BP said. China and  India 
accounted for 90 percent of the increase in demand. Emerging
economies now account for 56 percent of the world’s consumption,
compared with 42 percent two decades ago.  Global Output  World oil production increased 2.2 percent, or 1.9 million
barrels a day, with three-quarters of the increase coming from
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries. Gas
production grew 1.9 percent, while consumption of the fuel
gained 2.2 percent. Trade in liquefied natural gas dropped 0.9
percent, the first decline on record.  Energy consumption in countries in the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development, a group of advanced
economies, fell by 1.2 percent, led by a 2.8 percent decline in
the U.S. Consumption outside the OECD grew 4.2 percent, below
the 10-year average of 5.3 percent.  “2012 was yet another year of adaptation to a changing
energy landscape,” said  Christof Ruehl , chief economist at BP.
“As the non-OECD economies industrialize, they unlock ever more
resources. The data tell us that the industrializing part of the
world not only outpaces the OECD in terms of proved reserves
growth, it also contributes its fair share to energy
production.”  Even as increased use of gas in for power generation cut
U.S consumption of coal, worldwide the fuel made up 30 percent
of the world’s energy consumption, the highest proportion since
1970. China now burns the majority of the world’s coal for the
first time, the report said.  Carbon Emissions  Carbon dioxide emissions, the pollutant that contributes to
 climate change , increased at a slower pace than in 2011, helped
by the shift in consumption away from coal and toward natural
gas in the U.S., the report said. The U.S. reduced its  carbon
emissions  to the lowest since 1994.  Nuclear output dropped by 6.9 percent last year.  Japan 
accounted for 82 percent of the decline after the Fukushima
disaster in 2011 prompted the shutdown of all but two of Japan’s
50 nuclear power stations. Nuclear made up 4.5 percent of global
energy, the lowest share since 1984.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  