-- U.S. Wheat Reserve Estimate Cut as Drought, Freeze Hurt Crop
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2013-06-12T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/u-s-wheat-reserve-estimate-cut-as-drought-freeze-hurt-crop.html
U.S. wheat  stockpiles  before
next year’s harvest will be smaller than the government’s
earlier forecast after drought and unusually cold weather
damaged winter varieties in the southern Great Plains,
government data show.  Inventories of all wheat varieties as of June 1, 2014,
will total 659 million bushels, the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  said today in a report. That’s more than the
655 million projected by analysts in a Bloomberg survey and
less than the 670 million the government forecast in May.
U.S. output will drop this year from 2012 to 2.08 billion
bushels, compared with last month’s prediction of 2.057
billion.  The worst U.S. drought since the 1930s last year hurt
winter-wheat crops that were planted before November,
followed by freezes and more dry weather in March and
April. Just 31 percent of the crop was in good or excellent
condition as of June 9, the lowest rating for that time of
year since 2006, USDA data show.  “It’s the hard-red winter where the reductions are
coming, in the areas where the conditions were cut back,”
 Larry Glenn , an analyst at Frontier Ag in Quinter,  Kansas ,
said in a telephone interview before the report.  Wheat futures through yesterday fell 10 percent on the
Chicago Board of Trade this year, after entering a  bear
market  in January with prices down 26 percent from a high
in July.  In a separate report, the USDA forecast production
this year of hard-red winter wheat, sown in the southern
Great Plains and used to make bread, at 781 million
bushels. Output of soft-red varieties, grown in the eastern
Midwest and used in cookies and cakes, will total 509
million bushels, according to the USDA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in  Chicago  at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  