-- Human Genome Project Spurred $966 Billion Sciences Boom
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-06-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/human-genome-project-spurred-966-billion-sciences-boom.html
The $14.5 billion investment by the
U.S. in the  Human Genome Project , completed a decade ago, has
paid off more than 60-fold in new jobs, drugs and a rapidly
expanding genetics industry, an analysis has found.  The endeavor to map human DNA in its entirety created $966
billion in economic impact and $59 billion in federal  tax
revenue , according to the study released today by United for
 Medical Research  and  Battelle , two research advocacy groups.  Dozens of companies have started with the knowledge gained
from the project, leading to new diagnostic tests and
development of medicines that can be matched with gene variants
linked to disease. The project triggered a new era in the life
sciences, with new oncology drugs and screenings among the early
developments in the field, said Greg Lucier, chief executive
officer of  Life Technologies Corp. (LIFE)   “Up until that time, the pharmaceutical industry was able
to have major impact on human health through blockbuster drugs
that in retrospect were relatively simple,” he said in a
telephone interview. “The ushering in of the genomic era was
the beginning of truly reducing science to engineering, in terms
of the understanding of life,” he said.  Life Technologies also provided funding for the study. The
Carlsbad, California-based maker of gene-sequencing machines
agreed to be bought by  Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. (TMO)  for $13.6
billion last April. Other companies that provide sequencing
services or equipment include  Illumina Inc. (ILMN)  and Oxford Nanopore
Technologies Ltd. The Human Genome Project also spurred
consumer-focused genetics companies such as 23andMe Inc. that
let people find out what diseases they might be at risk for or
where their ancestry lies.  Cheaper, Faster  While it took almost $15 billion and more than a decade for
the government-funded DNA effort to fully sequence a human
genome for the first time, companies can now sequence a whole
genome for about $1,000 and do it in a day.  “The Human Genome Project was the starting point of that
magnificent, incredible effort,” Lucier said.  The market for gene tests may expand to $25 billion from $5
billion within a decade as more doctors use a patient’s genetic
makeup to tailor treatments, according to a report last year
from  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , the largest U.S. health insurer.  “This report illustrates the vital role that key federal
research funding plays in growing the  U.S. economy , creating new
industries and innovative technologies and producing the
diagnostics and treatments that can save lives,” Carrie
Wolinetz, president of United for Medical Research, said in a
statement. She called the now-complete project the biggest
undertaking in the history of the life sciences.  Oncology Innovations  Some of biggest innovations have been in the field of
oncology. The actress  Angelina Jolie  recently became the new
face of  breast cancer , after announcing that she’d had a double-mastectomy upon discovering that she carried a gene that
predicts about a 60 percent chance of developing the disease.  Thanks to the advances in genetic screening, drug
developers also now look for genetic mutations in tumors that
can explain why they grow and metastasize, and create drugs to
specifically target that aspect of the disease.  “I think in the next decade, we’ll be able to -- in many
cancers -- change that disease from being terminal to chronic,
and that’s a complete outgrowth of the human genome project and
our knowledge of genomics,” Lucier said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  