-- Lundin to Buy U.S. Mine From Rio Tinto for $325 Million
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2013-06-13T20:13:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/lundin-to-buy-michigan-mine-from-rio-tinto-for-325-million.html
Lundin Mining Corp. (LUN) , a Canadian
metals producer with operations in Europe and Africa, agreed to
buy  Rio Tinto  Group’s Eagle nickel and copper project in
northern Michigan for about $325 million.  Construction of the mine is just over 50 percent complete
and output is scheduled to start in the fourth quarter of 2014,
Toronto-based Lundin said yesterday in a statement. Average
annual output in the first three full years is estimated at
about 23,000 metric tons of nickel and 20,000 tons of copper.
The mine will also produce precious metals and cobalt.  “The Eagle mine represents a very unique opportunity to
acquire a high-grade project which is under construction and
expected to begin generating significant levels of metal
production and  cash flow ,” Lundin Chief Executive Officer Paul Conibear said in the statement.  Lundin is the latest buyer of assets that are being
offloaded by some of the world’s largest mining companies as
they try to cut costs and focus on their most profitable
businesses.  Capstone Mining Corp. (CS) , another Canadian miner,
agreed in April to buy the Pinto Valley copper project and a
railway in Arizona from  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , Rio’s largest rival,
for $650 million.  “The sale of Eagle demonstrates our renewed focus and
discipline in the way we allocate capital,” London-based Rio’s
Chief Financial Officer Chris Lynch said in a separate
statement. “We are making good progress on a number of other
potential divestments as part of our goal to achieve substantial
proceeds from divesting non-core assets.”  Further Investments  Lundin said it expects to spend another $400 million in
2013 and 2014 to bring Eagle into production.  The company has operations in Spain, Sweden and Portugal
and a 24 percent stake in  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) ’s
Tenke Fungurume mine in the  Democratic Republic  of Congo. Lundin
will fund the Eagle acquisition, which is expected to be
completed in July, from  cash  on hand and an existing revolving
credit facility.  Lundin  rose  8.8 percent to C$4.33 in Toronto. Rio increased
2.6 percent to 2,759.5 pence in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  