-- Turkey EU Entry Talks Face Doubts Amid Istanbul Protests
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2013-06-12T15:59:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/turkey-eu-entry-talks-face-doubts-amid-istanbul-protests.html
European Union governments were
divided on restarting Turkey’s EU membership talks as criticism
mounted of Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s
handling of the biggest protests against his rule.  “Discussion among the  member states  is ongoing” over
resuming the entry bid, a step that had been planned before the
anti-Erdogan demonstrations erupted two weeks ago in central
Istanbul, EU Enlargement Commissioner Stefan Fule told the
European Parliament today in Strasbourg, France.  Representatives of the EU’s 27 governments will decide June
19 whether to press on with the  membership negotiations , which
have gone nowhere since mid-2010. Any one of the bloc’s 27
countries could veto the step.  Italian Foreign Minister Emma Bonino called the protests
“the first serious test” of Turkey’s entitlement to join the
EU,  Agence France-Presse  reported from Rome. The German
government has growing doubts about the wisdom of reopening the
talks, Spiegel reported, citing unidentified officials.  A resumption of the entry process would still leave  Turkey 
far from getting in. Since beginning the path toward the EU in
October 2005, Turkey has held  talks  in 13 policy areas and
completed one.  Croatia , which began its bid on the same day as
Turkey, will join the EU next month.  Fule said the entry negotiations, which require Turkey to
adopt EU regulations and embrace its political culture, would be
a “benchmark for Turkish reforms” and the best tool for
nurturing democratic habits and media freedoms there.  While some members of the EU parliament also appealed for
an acceleration of the entry talks as a way of influencing the
Erdogan government’s behavior, that call didn’t find its way
into a  draft resolution  put together by the parliament’s five
main parties.  The non-binding resolution, to be voted on tomorrow, voiced
“deep concern” at the use of force by Turkish police, saying
the country needs to build a “truly democratic, free and
pluralist society.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  