-- U.S. Open Braces for Severe Storms in First Round at Merion
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-06-13T11:10:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/usga-braces-for-heavy-rain-in-first-round-of-u-s-open-at-merion.html
The U.S. Golf Association is bracing
for severe storms that could stop play during the opening round
of the U.S. Open, where  Tiger Woods  is seeking his first major
victory in five years.  Storms capable of producing high wind, hail and possibly a
severe windstorm known as a derecho may sweep into the Northeast
U.S. this morning. The tournament’s marquee group of Woods, Rory McIlroy and  Adam Scott , golf’s three top-ranked players, is
scheduled to begin play at 1:14 p.m.  New York  time.  “There could be some really high winds with us,
potentially damaging winds, even some hail,” USGA Executive
Director  Mike Davis  said in a press conference at Merion Golf
Club yesterday. “It depends on what hits us or how lucky or
unlucky we are.”  Play got under way this morning with opening group of Roger
Tambellini and Cliff Kresge of the U.S. and Ryan Yip of  Canada 
hitting the first tee shots. A threesome of  Phil Mickelson ,
 Steve Stricker  and Keegan Bradley are also among the early
starters.  Davis and his staff have already been unlucky. In the week
leading up to the start of golf’s second of four annual major
tournaments, the Ardmore, Pennsylvania, course has been soaked
with as much as 6 inches (15 centimeters) of rain, leaving
greens soft, fairways soggy and some pedestrian pathways
treacherous.  A flood watch has been posted across eastern Pennsylvania
and most of  New Jersey , including Philadelphia and Trenton,
starting today because 1 to 3 inches of rain is expected to fall
on ground that has been soaked by earlier storms, the U.S. Storm
Prediction Center said.  A derecho -- a rare event characterized by winds of at
least 58 miles (93 kilometers) per hour creating a line of
damage at least 240 miles long -- is also possible, the weather
center said.  A derecho swept through the Midwest into the mid-Atlantic
states a year ago, knocking out power to 1.9 million people in
10 states and the  District of Columbia . As a result, the third
round of the U.S.  PGA Tour ’s AT&T National was played without
spectators allowed on the grounds of Congressional Country Club
for safety reasons.  Flood Threat  “The greatest threat for flooding on Thursday and Thursday
night is along small streams and creeks, as well as in areas of
poor drainage,” the weather service said.  Merion, a 117-year-old golf club which is hosting its fifth
 U.S. Open , has a creek surrounding the 11th green at the lowest
point of the course. The creek intersects with another alongside
the 12th hole.  “We happen to play a sport that’s played outdoors,” USGA
Vice President Tom O’Toole said. “It’s not a perfect world.
It’s not a perfect game. But we take what we are dealt with.”  The soft conditions of the 6,996-yard (6,400 meter) course
could lead to record low scores, players said, as approach shots
to the putting surfaces will be easier to stop closer to the
holes, producing more birdie attempts.  Woods Favored  Woods, a three-time U.S. Open winner, is favored to capture
his first major victory since the 2008 Open at  Torrey Pines  in
San Diego. He has 14 major victories, four shy of tying  Jack Nicklaus ’s record.  “I just enter events to win,” Woods, 37, said in a press
conference two days ago. “That’s why I played as a junior, all
the way through to now, is just to try to kick everyone’s butt.
That, to me, is the rush.”  Northern Ireland’s McIlroy, 24, won the 2011 event at
Congressional near  Washington , while  Australia ’s Scott, 32,
claimed his first Grand Slam victory at the  Masters Tournament 
in April.  Under soft conditions, the course’s main line of defense is
thick 5-inch rough lining its fairways. Several of the landing
areas for tee shots are less than 25 yards wide.  “If you’re playing from the rough, you have no chance of
scoring here,” said  Matt Kuchar , the No. 4 player in the
Official World Golf Ranking and a two-time winner on the U.S.
PGA Tour this year. “It’s still a very demanding, difficult
golf course even in softer conditions.”  Postponed Round  If heavy rain hits the course in the afternoon, players
with later tee times, including Woods, face the possibility of
having to return to finish their rounds tomorrow. In that
scenario, Kuchar said those players might be able to record even
lower scores.  “They may be at an advantage if the course really softens
up and plays a lot easier after a big rain,” Kuchar said.  Regardless of the playing conditions and potentially low
scores, USGA officials said they are eager to return to Merion,
which last hosted a U.S. Open in 1981. The course, built on 110
acres, was widely considered by many golf followers to be unable
to host big events because of its size and lack of length.  “Personally I’d already like to see us return,” Davis
said. “I’m not sure Merion wants us to return. For anybody to
think that these rain events would curtail our enthusiasm for
this, you’re misguided. We have nothing to say but positive
things about Merion now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  