-- Vietnam Plans to Extend Stock Trading Hours to Boost Liquidity
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-12T05:32:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/vietnam-plans-to-extend-stock-trading-hours-to-boost-liquidity.html
Vietnam ’s two main stock exchanges
will extend trading hours to help boost liquidity and lure
investors to a market that’s 13 times smaller than Singapore’s.  The Ho Chi Minh City Stock Exchange, the country’s main
bourse, will extend afternoon trading hours by 45 minutes to end
at 3 p.m. local time, Chairman Tran Dac Sinh said in a telephone
interview today. Trading hours for the Hanoi Stock Exchange will
also be extended by 45 minutes for the afternoon session, Deputy
General Director Nguyen Thi Hoang Lan said by phone.  “Longer trading hours will allow institutional and
professional traders to spread out trading more,” said  Attila Vajda , a Ho Chi Minh City-based analyst at ACB Securities Co.
“It will be slightly easier to beat the market, especially if
volumes are sizable.”  The  VN Index (VNINDEX)  has rallied 27 percent this year, the best
performer among benchmark gauges in  Southeast Asia , as the
country’s central bank cut  interest rates  last month for an
eighth time since the start of 2012 and the government stepped
up efforts to tackle banks’ bad loans.  The nation’s stocks are valued at $45.6 billion, compared
with $595.8 billion in Singapore, the region’s largest market.  The new trading hours for the Ho Chi Minh City bourse may
start in the third quarter, while July 8 is targeted for the
Hanoi exchange, according to the exchanges’ officials. There are
no changes in trading hours for the morning sessions.  The plan to extend trading hours for the Ho Chi Minh City
Stock Exchange was earlier reported by Vietstock, an online
financial news service.  About $51 million of securities traded daily on average
this year on the Ho Chi Minh City Stock Exchange, the country’s
main bourse, compared with $1.34 billion for  Singapore ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The State Securities Commission has agreed in principle to
the trading hours extension, Nguyen Son, head of market
development at the regulator, said today. The exchanges have
started pilot programs to test the system, he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nguyen Kieu Giang in Hanoi at 
 giang1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  