-- Warner Stood Down After Altercation With England Player
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-06-12T09:43:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/warner-stood-down-after-alleged-altercation-with-england-player.html
Australian batsman  David Warner  was
dropped for today’s Champions Trophy one-day match against  New
Zealand  after he was alleged to have made an “unprovoked
physical assault” on an English player.  Opening batsman Warner, who was last month fined A$5,750
($5,478) for posting abusive comments on Twitter, was reported
for “unbecoming behavior” after he was allegedly involved in a
physical altercation with an  England  player after the teams’
June 8 Champions Trophy match in Birmingham, England, Cricket
Australia said in a  statement .  The England and Wales Cricket Board said the ‘unprovoked’’
assault occurred in a bar in Birmingham after England’s 48-run
defeat of Australia. While the ECB didn’t identify the England
player involved in its e-mailed statement, newspapers including
the Evening Standard said it was batsman Joe Root.  “Warner has admitted behaving inappropriately and has
since apologized to the player involved who has accepted the
apology,” the ECB said. “Following a full investigation the
England team management has concluded that the England player
was in no way responsible for nor retaliated to the attack. ECB
has concluded that this is a matter for Cricket  Australia  and
have no further comment to make.”  The Australian governing body said it will convene a code
of behavior hearing as soon as possible. Warner, who also is a
member of Australia’s squad for the Ashes series, was previously
found guilty of unbecoming behavior at a May 22 disciplinary
hearing after posting abusive messages to journalists, some
containing obscene language, on Twitter.  The 26-year-old has played 19 Tests for Australia, scoring
1,263 runs, including three centuries, at an average of 39.46.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Baynes at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net  