-- Bulger Said to Complain of ‘Rats’ While Informing FBI
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n   a n d   J a n e l l e   L a w r e n c e
-- 2013-06-12T20:54:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/whitey-bulger-trial-opening-statements-begin-in-boston-court.html
James “Whitey” Bulger, the reputed
crime boss on trial in Boston for 19 murders, called criminals
who helped the authorities “rats” even though he was secretly
one of the biggest informants in town, a prosecutor said.  Bulger gave tips to the  Federal Bureau of Investigation 
while he led an Irish-American organized crime gang in Boston
from the 1970s to the early 1990s, Assistant U.S. Attorney  Brian
Kelly  told jurors today during opening statements in federal
court in Boston. Bulger, 83, also corrupted several FBI agents
and compromised probes into his activities, Kelly said.  “It’s a case about organized crime, public corruption and
all sorts of illegal activities, ranging from extortion to drug
dealing to money laundering to possession of machine guns and
murder -- 19 murders,” Kelly said. “At the center of all this
murder and mayhem is one man -- the defendant James Bulger.”  Bulger was captured in  Santa Monica ,  California , in 2011
after being on the run for 16 years, sharing a space on the
FBI’s most-wanted list alongside  Osama bin Laden . The FBI
described Bulger as one of its “ most notorious fugitives ,”
known for infiltrating the agency and “sowing seeds of public
distrust in  law enforcement  that remain in South Boston to this
day.”  Others’ Crimes  Bulger’s lawyer, J.W. Carney, admitted in his opening
statement today that Bulger was a drug dealer and loan-shark.
Bulger, who pleaded not guilty to murder charges, is being
blamed for the crimes of others, Carney said.  Carney said the lack of federal charges against Bulger
before 1995, just after Bulger went on the run, is proof of FBI
corruption rather than evidence that Bulger was an informant.  “I tell you this story so you will know the depth of
corruption in federal law enforcement that occurred during this
period,” Carney said. “This is how James Bulger was able to do
illegal gaming, make illegal loans and be involved in drug
trafficking, extortion, and never ever be charged -- and on top
of that make millions upon millions of dollars.”  Carney said his client actually paid a corrupt FBI special
agent, John Connolly, for inside information about wiretaps and
searches. Connolly lied and told his superiors that Bulger was
an informant to justify their meetings, Carney said.  Bulger may spend the rest of his life in prison if he’s
found guilty following what is expected to be a three-month
trial, which is being overseen by U.S. District Judge Denise Casper.  ‘Get Control’  Carney is using a “confession and avoidance” tactic, said
Walter Prince, an assistant U.S. attorney in  Boston  from 1976 to
1980, when Bulger was active in the city. “If you confess to
the smaller things, you might be able to avoid conviction on the
larger issues.”  Today’s hearing is a chance for both sides of the case to
“get control of” the 12-person jury and exert early influence
with their opposing sets of facts, said Prince, now a litigation
lawyer at Prince Lobel Tye LLP in Boston.  The first prosecution witness was retired State Police
Lieutenant Robert Long. He testified about a 1980 investigation
he led into truck hijackings called “Operation Lobster” in
which his team staked out the garage headquarters of Bulger’s
gang.  ‘Vicious Killer’  Witnesses set to testify for the prosecution include
several of Bulger’s closest associates who were captured after
he fled. They include his longtime partner Stephen Flemmi, who
pulled out the teeth of murder victims to thwart identification
and is now serving a life sentence, Kelly said today.  “Clearly, Flemmi is a vicious killer,” Kelly said. “But
just as clearly, evidence will show he was James Bulger’s
partner for many years” and was also an FBI informant.  Kevin Weeks, another longtime partner of Bulger, and gunman
John Martorano, who admitted he killed 20 people, sometimes on
Bulger’s orders, will also testify.  Carney said Flemmi and other witnesses are telling
prosecutors what they want to hear in exchange for cash and
lenient sentences for the crimes they committed. They’re also
blaming Bulger for their own wrongdoing, Carney said, because
they never expected him to be captured.  Blaming Bulger  “So many years had gone by, it’s fair to say Stevie Flemmi
never thought James Bulger was coming back,” Carney said.
“Stevie Flemmi decided to start blaming Bulger for crimes
Stevie Flemmi had carried out.”  Martorano served 12 years in prison for murder and was
given $20,000 from the government upon his release, Carney told
the jury. The former hit-man also kept the proceeds of book and
movie deals worth more than $250,000, he said.  Families of victims say that before Bulger went on the run,
federal agents wrongfully protected him from local and state
authorities for years, letting him kill and steal in exchange
for information about a bigger FBI target that he was associated
with, the Patriarca Family organized crime group.  Bulger disappeared in 1994 after receiving a tip from
Connolly, his longtime FBI handler, that he would soon be
charged with racketeering, prosecutors have said. Connolly is
serving a 50-year prison term for crimes linked to Bulger,
including murder.  Before his capture in 2011 in Santa Monica, the FBI
believed Bulger was living overseas when he was at large,
describing him as a meticulous planner who spent almost two
decades preparing for life as a fugitive.  Rape, Alcatraz  Bulger, who grew up in the predominantly Irish-Catholic
housing projects of South Boston, became involved in serious
crimes at a young age, including rape, and spent three years in
the Alcatraz federal prison in  San Francisco  for bank robbery
before rising to dominate much of Boston’s criminal underworld,
the FBI has said.  Bulger’s victims included gangsters who crossed him and two
young women who were missing for years before their bodies were
unearthed in secret mob graves, according to prosecutors.  Bulger claims he struck an immunity deal with the U.S.
Justice Department years ago that protects him from prosecution.  The U.S. said in court filings that Bulger’s immunity deal
is a fantasy, and that no official can confer what amounts to
“a license to kill.” Casper ruled on May 2 that Bulger’s
lawyers can’t tell the jury about the alleged immunity.  Informant Targeted  Among the other witnesses against Bulger is Patricia
Donahue, whose husband Michael, 32, was a bystander allegedly
gunned down by Bulger during a 1982 hit on a former gang
associate, Brian Halloran. Prosecutors allege Halloran was
targeted because he had agreed to become an informant against
Bulger.  A federal judge found the FBI responsible for Donahue’s and
Halloran’s deaths and awarded the families $8.5 million, though
an appeals court threw out the award on the grounds the claim
was filed too late.  Prosecutors have said Bulger strangled Debra Davis, 26, a
former girlfriend of Flemmi, in 1981 when she tried to leave
Flemmi. He’s also accused of killing Deborah Hussey, 26, who was
Flemmi’s stepdaughter, in 1985 when she accused Flemmi of sexual
abuse.  Connolly, who grew up in the same housing project as
Bulger, was convicted in 2002 on federal racketeering charges
and again in 2008 on state charges for his role in the 1982
slaying of World Jai Alai executive John Callahan.  John Morris, Connolly’s supervisor at the FBI, was also
implicated. He got immunity from prosecution by admitting he
accepted cash from Bulger in exchange for protecting him. Morris
agreed to testify against Connolly and will also testify against
Bulger, according to court records.  Another former FBI agent, H. Paul Rico, who helped develop
Bulger as an informant, was charged in 2003 with helping him
carry out another murder in 1981 in  Oklahoma . Rico died in
custody in 2004 while awaiting trial.  The case is U.S. v. Weeks, 99-cr-10371, U.S. District
Court, District of  Massachusetts  (Boston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Larson in  New York  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net ;
Janelle Lawrence in Boston federal court
at  jmlawrence@me.com   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  