-- WPP Four-Month Sales Rise 6.7% on Asia, Latin America
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2013-06-12T14:24:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/wpp-four-month-sales-rise-6-7-on-asia-latin-america.html
WPP Plc (WPP) , the world’s largest
advertising company, reported a 6.7 percent increase in revenue
for the first four months of this year on sales in Asia and
Latin America, as well as stronger U.K. demand.  Revenue rose to about 3.45 billion pounds ($5.4 billion)
and operating profit, as a percentage of sales, exceeded WPP’s
estimate and increased from a year earlier, the London-based
company said today in a statement. Separately, shareholders at
the company’s annual meeting approved Chief Executive Officer
Martin Sorrell’s 2012 pay package worth 17.6 million pounds.  WPP, which owns ad agencies including Young & Rubicam and
Grey, said revenue growth this year was similar to the final
quarter of 2012, with some improvement in April. The company has
been expanding in faster-growing markets such as  China  and
 Brazil  to counter slower growth in Europe and North America.  WPP said it expects revenue for the rest of 2013 to surpass
its forecast, with full-year like-for-like  sales  increasing more
than 3 percent. The company said it’s still hiring
“cautiously” and headcount at the end of April was lower than
at the start of this year on a like-for-like basis.  The shares  rose  0.7 percent to 1,110 pence at 3:03 p.m. in
London trading.  Incentive Plan  Shareholders voted 81 percent in favor of Sorrell’s 2012
pay package today in London. This included a 150,000-pound
reduction in Sorrell’s annual salary to 1.15 million pounds.
Shareholders also approved a new long-term incentive plan that
will cut the maximum value of shares Sorrell could be awarded
over a five-year period to 11.2 million pounds from 22.75
million pounds.  Sorrell was a focus of last year’s so-called shareholder
spring when there was a vote of about 60 percent against his
11.6 million-pound pay package, which included long-term
incentives.  Before today’s meeting, two pension fund groups urged
shareholders to oppose Sorrell’s pay and the incentive plan. The
Local Authority Pension Fund Forum said that while it welcomed
WPP’s efforts to cut remuneration, Sorrell’s payout was
excessive. Its sister advisory body, PIRC, also urged
shareholders to vote against 2012’s pay and the new incentive
plan.  Sorrell’s compensation and the long-term incentive plan
“were framed against our attempts to strike a balance between
what we thought was fair and appropriate,” Jeffrey Rosen, a
non-executive director at WPP who chairs the remuneration
committee, told today’s meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in  London  at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 