-- Yanzhou Gap at Five-Year High Highlights Holiday Tumble
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m ,   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2013-06-12T21:01:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/yanzhou-gap-at-five-year-high-highlights-holiday-tumble.html
Mainland China stocks resume trading
after missing out on a three-day tumble in emerging equities
that sent  Brazil ’s  Ibovespa (IBOV)  into a bear market and left Chinese
shares traded in Hong Kong at the cheapest level versus the
world since 2003.  “Chinese shares are likely to drop when markets reopen,
though the domestic market goes to its own beat,” Jeff Papp, a
senior analyst at Oberweis Asset Management Inc., which manages
$700 million in assets, said in a telephone interview from
Lisle,  Illinois .  The MSCI Emerging Market Index lost 3.2 percent and the
Bloomberg China-US Equity Index dropped 2.9 percent since
Chinese markets closed for a three-day holiday, with the
Ibovespa becoming the first benchmark from the biggest
developing countries to fall at least 20 percent from a peak.
The Hang Seng  China  Enterprises Index closed June 11 at an
eight-month low, dragging its  valuation  to 1.2 times net assets,
the lowest ratio versus the MSCI All-Country World Index since
November 2003. Hong Kong also reopens today.  The tumble, spurred by concern that the Federal Reserve may
withdraw monetary stimulus, followed China’s May economic data
showing industrial output grew less than forecast, factory-gate
prices slumped and export gains were at a 10-month low. American
depositary receipts of Yanzhou Coal Mining Co.  trailed  the Hong
Kong stock by the most since 2008, while four days of declines
in  Cnooc Ltd. (CEO) ’s ADRs created the first discount versus Hong Kong
in a week.  Growth Estimates  The slump this week has driven companies on the China-US
gauge to trade at 12  times  estimated profit on average, the
lowest level since May 3, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  China’s economy will expand 7.5 percent this year,
Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB predicted, joining Barclays
Plc. and at least two other firms in cutting growth projections
after May industrial production data trailed estimates. A
Bloomberg News survey last month showed a median projection for
a 7.8 percent growth for the year, down from an 8 percent
forecast in April.  Twelve-month non-deliverable  yuan  forwards strengthened
0.13 percent against the U.S. dollar to 6.2675 yesterday in New
York, rising the most in a week, after the currency was little
changed last week at 6.1335 per dollar in  Shanghai  before the
holiday.  ADRs of Yanzhou, China’s fourth-largest coal mining
company, lost 12 percent this week to $8.95, the lowest price
since April 2009. They traded 8.6 percent below Hong Kong
shares, the widest discount since December 2008.  Energy Companies  Cnooc’s ADRs slid 0.7 percent yesterday to $169.01, taking
the loss to 3.8 percent this week. They traded 0.7 percent below
Hong Kong shares, the first discount in five days.  Material and energy industry groups are the  worst
performers  among 10 industry groups on the MSCI China this year,
as China Coal Energy Co. and Yanzhou slumped more than 40
percent.  Zijin Mining Group Co. (2899) ’s forward price-earnings ratio
has dropped to a four-month low after the stock tumbled 40
percent in 2013.  Commodities have dropped this week, with the Standard &
Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24  raw materials  slipping 1.2 percent
to 623.62 in New York.  Sina Corp., China’s biggest Twitter-like Weibo service,
sank 7 percent to $55.85 this week, while Baidu Inc., owner of
China’s most-used online search engine, slid 5 percent to a one-week low of $97.51.  ETF Trading  The iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund, the largest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., fell 0.7 percent yesterday in
New York to $34.59, extending its slide into a fourth day. The
Standard and Poor’s 500 Index tumbled 0.8 percent to 1,612.52 as
investors weighed economic reports and the effect of rising bond
yields on equities.  Chinese shares  traded in Hong Kong posted the longest
losing streak in 17 years before closing yesterday for a
holiday. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index lost 8.8 percent
in the 10 days to June 11.  While Fidelity Investment Management Ltd. and JPMorgan
Asset Management say bargains are emerging among Chinese
equities in Hong Kong, Manulife Asset Management and State
Street Corp. are wary of stocks that have now erased all their
gains since Xi Jinping took over as leader of the Communist
Party of China in November.  Stock Outflows  Some foreign investors pulled funds from Chinese equities
since Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said the central bank could
ease its stimulus policies should the U.S. employment outlook
show sustainable improvement. Investors withdrew $834 million
from Chinese stock funds in the week to June 5, Citigroup Inc.
said in a June 7 report, citing EPFR Global data.  The drop in Chinese shares is “partly due to perceived
poor data from China, and partly due to low trading volumes,”
Oberweis’s Papp said. “China, as well as the broad emerging
market, isn’t doing anything with monetary policy to create
short-term growth, driving funds to developed markets with
monetary easing policies.”  The Hang Seng China gauge’s 10-day decline dragged its
price-to-projected 12-month earnings  ratio  to 7.3 times, the
lowest level since July and less than the five-year average of
10, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The MSCI All-Country World
Index trades for 13.5 times profit.  ‘Still Overweight’  While Fidelity had sold some of its Chinese holdings, its
fund managers are generally “still overweight” on equities in
China and Hong Kong, according to Catherine Yeung, the firm’s
Hong Kong-based investment director. Renewable-energy shares and
companies that benefit from discretionary consumer spending are
“attractive,” she said, without being specific.  “There are a lot of opportunities from a valuation point
of view,” Yeung said by phone on June 11. “Data is mixed but
from a stock selection point of view, we are finding some very
good news.”  China’s  industrial production  expanded 9.2 percent in May,
compared with a median estimate for a 9.4 percent increase, the
statistics bureau reported on June 9. May exports rose 1 percent
from a year earlier, down from 14.7 percent in April, while
imports dropped 0.3 percent from a year earlier. The median
 estimates  of analysts were for a 7.4 percent export growth and a
6.6 percent import gain.  The reports add pressure on Xi and Premier Li Keqiang to
shore up growth that unexpectedly slowed to a 7.7 percent rate
in the first quarter. While the figures boost the case for
easing monetary policy or increasing spending, the government’s
room is limited by rising home prices and overcapacity in an
economy where lenders’ bad loans have risen for six straight
quarters.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  