-- Tyco’s Kozlowski Should Be Denied Hearing, Board Says
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-06-12T22:04:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/tyco-s-kozlowski-should-be-denied-hearing-board-says.html
Former  Tyco International Ltd. (TYC)  Chief
Executive Officer L. Dennis Kozlowski shouldn’t be given a new
parole hearing because his crimes were too serious to allow his
release from prison yet, parole officials told a court.  Mark Shawhan, an attorney for the New York Attorney
General’s Office, today asked a panel of five appellate judges
in  Manhattan  to overturn a ruling granting Kozlowski a new
hearing before the state’s Board of Parole, saying the former
Tyco executive stole more than $100 million from his company.  “His crime was so severe that to grant him parole on his
first appearance before the board would undermine respect for
the law,” Shawhan told the appeals court at a hearing.  Kozlowski was sentenced to 8 1/3 to 25 years in prison in
2005 after a  jury trial  in Manhattan. He began serving his
sentence in September of that year. The parole board denied
Kozlowski’s request for parole in April 2012 “due to concern
for the public safety and welfare.”  Kozlowski sued in October, saying the board relied on
erroneous information in determining its ruling. State Supreme
Court Justice Carol Huff in February annulled the decision and
sent it back for a new hearing.  The parole board “relied exclusively on the seriousness of
petitioner’s crime in reaching its determination,” Huff said in
her decision.  ‘Irrational’ Decision  Alan Lewis, an attorney with Carter Ledyard & Milburn LLP
representing Kozlowski, told the panel that the parole board’s
decision was “irrational.”  “They plugged in a number from the news and used that as a
rationalization for what was really a foregone conclusion,”
Lewis said.  Kozlowski will get a parole hearing in September unless the
appeals court orders a new hearing at which the board grants
parole before then, Lewis said.  Kozlowski became the face of corporate greed when the
government pointed to luxuries paid for with Tyco funds
including a $30 million Fifth Avenue apartment with a
$6,000 shower curtain, a $15,000 umbrella stand and paintings by
 Claude Monet  and Pierre-August Renoir.  A jury in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan found
that Kozlowski and ex-Chief Financial Officer Mark Swartz stole
about $137 million from Tyco in unauthorized compensation and
made $410 million from the sale of inflated stock.  Birthday Party  Jurors saw a video of a $2 million birthday party Kozlowski
threw for his wife on the Italian island of Sardinia in June
2001, financed in part by Tyco. The party featured an ice
replica of Michelangelo’s “David,” with vodka flowing from its
penis, and a concert by singer  Jimmy Buffett .  Kozlowski was transferred in January 2012 to the minimum-security Lincoln Correctional Facility on 110th Street near
Fifth Avenue in Manhattan from the medium-security Mid-State
Correctional Facility in Marcy, according to state records.  Kozlowski, a 1968 graduate of  Seton Hall University  in  New
Jersey , started with Tyco as an assistant comptroller in 1976.
He told the parole board he has paid $134 million in restitution
and a $70 million fine in full. He said he sold his assets,
including homes and a boat, “as quickly as possible” and has
“very, very little left.”  ‘Model Inmate’  Kozlowski has “conducted himself as a model” inmate since
his incarceration, has never committed a disciplinary infraction
and has completed every program offered to him, including an
alcohol and substance abuse treatment program, he said in his
lawsuit.  He served as a teacher’s aide for inmates pursuing high-school equivalency diplomas and was awarded “merit time” that
reduced his minimum term, making him eligible for parole after
serving seven years, according to the suit.  While the parole board said Kozlowski’s disciplinary record
“appears clean” and he has made “progress and achievement,”
it denied his request.  “Your instant offenses are the result of your theft of
over $100 million from Tyco, an international public
corporation, in glaring violation of the trust placed in you as
CEO by the board of directors and corporate shareholders,” the
board said in its decision.  Kozlowski in August settled a 10-year-old lawsuit with Tyco
in which the company sought the return of money, stock and
loans. Tyco, based in Schaffhausen,  Switzerland , makes security
systems.  Stepped Down  Swartz, 52, who is also serving an 8 1/3 to 25 year
sentence, sued Tyco in May to recover $60 million he says he is
owed under agreements he made with the company when he stepped
down in 2002.  Swartz is also serving his sentence at Lincoln and
participating in a work-release program, according to the
website of the Department of Corrections and Community
Supervision. He is eligible for parole in January and has a
hearing scheduled for September.  The case is Kozlowski v.  New York  State Board of Parole,
104097/2012, New York State Supreme Court, New York County
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  