-- Yen to Weaken Past 100 Per Dollar on Stocks, NAB’s Attrill Says
-- B y   K e n n e t h   F o o
-- 2013-06-12T04:47:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/yen-to-weaken-past-100-per-dollar-on-stocks-nab-s-attrill-says.html
The yen will probably weaken further
as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s fight to revive  Japan ’s economy
sparks gains in the country’s stocks, according to Ray Attrill,
the Sydney-based global co-head of foreign-exchange strategy at
 National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  He spoke in an interview with  Susan
Li  on Bloomberg Television.  On the yen:  “Dollar-yen is an extremely sharp toy at the moment as
you’ve seen from the volatility over the last week or so.  ‘‘If the U.S. yield backdrop is supportive, we will see
these moves higher. There’s obviously a fair amount of
disappointment at the substance of Abe’s so-called third arrow
speech last week.  ‘‘I suspect we have to wait until after the July upper
house elections before we see more flesh being put on the
skeleton of that speech. That may be something that encourages
the Nikkei to have a fresh move higher. And given that the
Japanese stock market and the yen have been moving hand-in-hand
in opposite directions, if we breathe more life back into the
equity market rally in the coming weeks and months, that may be
what pushes dollar-yen back up above 100.  ‘‘We’re forecasting 105 for the end of the year.’’  On the Australian dollar, which traded at 94.48 U.S. cents as of
1:33 p.m. in Tokyo and yesterday reached 93.26, the lowest since
September 2010:  ‘‘We’ve got the currency at around 90 in the middle of next
year and 87 by the year end. The foreign-exchange markets being
what they are, the risks are that we’ll see those levels sooner
rather than later. I still think in the scheme of things, it’s
still going to be a U.S. dollar strength story. We’ve seen U.S.
yields breaking higher again in real, not just in nominal terms.
And I think that’s really important for the broad dollar trend.  ‘‘If that trend continues, it is going to drive the U.S.
dollar stronger and the Australian dollar is going to be one of
the main victims, along with this liquidation of emerging market
bond and currency positions that we’re seeing. So that’s the
backdrop that I think is not going to go away anytime soon.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kenneth Foo in Singapore at 
 kfoo23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  