-- Yuan Forwards Discount Widening Shows Dim Sum Risk: China Credit
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2013-06-13T04:09:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-12/yuan-forwards-discount-widening-shows-dim-sum-risk-china-credit.html
Yuan  forwards are trading at the
biggest discount to the spot rate in four years and the top Dim
Sum debt underwriters predict a halt to appreciation.  Contracts that fix the currency in 12 months were 2.33
percent  weaker than  the current rate in Shanghai today, the most
since March 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
currency has advanced 1.5 percent against the dollar since the
end of 2012. The average yield on offshore yuan-denominated debt
climbed to a five-month high of 3.8 percent on June 10, an HSBC
Holdings Plc index showed.  China’s latest trade and manufacturing data trailed
estimates, fueling concerns the central bank will halt currency
gains to revive exports and economic growth, according to
Standard Chartered Plc. HSBC said the dollar’s strength on
speculation the Federal Reserve will scale back its stimulus
could drive Dim Sum yields higher.  “The recent economic data have reinforced concerns that
the yuan won’t appreciate further in the near term,” Crystal Zhao, a fixed-income analyst in Hong Kong at HSBC, the largest
arranger of Dim Sum securities, said in a June 11 phone
interview. “When the yuan softens, it’s inevitable that Dim Sum
yields will rise. Higher U.S. Treasury yields and the dollar’s
strength are also weighing on yuan assets.”  Forwards Decline  The  yield  on three-year U.S. Treasuries has climbed 23
basis points this quarter to 0.57 percent, according to date
compiled by Bloomberg, while the  rate  on similar sovereign bonds
in  China  was steady at 3.11 percent, show Chinabond data. The
average yield on Dim Sum bonds rose 29 basis points, an HSBC
index shows. China’s financial markets resumed trading today
after a three-day holiday for the Dragon Boat Festival.  In Hong Kong, twelve-month non-deliverable yuan forwards,
which reflect both interest-rate differentials and exchange-rate
expectations, declined 0.4 percent in June. The contracts are
settled in dollars and allow investors to buy or sell the
currency at a set price on a specified date. They fell 0.3
percent today to 6.2865 per dollar, according to Bloomberg data.
The offshore yuan was trading at a 0.1 percent discount to the
spot rate in Shanghai.  The yuan dropped 0.1 percent to 6.1399 per dollar in
 Shanghai  today, 0.65 percent weaker than the year-end median
estimate of 6.10 in a Bloomberg News survey.  Selling Pressure  “We expect more selling pressure in the offshore yuan bond
market, given a slowdown in capital inflows and a possible
correction in the yuan spot,” said HSBC’s Zhao. “With weaker
sentiment and tighter liquidity, some money managers are
trimming their holdings in the yuan bond market.”  The State Administration of Foreign Exchange last month
tightened yuan capital rules for banks and stepped up scrutiny
of flows to prevent speculative funds from entering the country
disguised as trade payments. New foreign-exchange loans dropped
to $5.8 billion in May, according to the central bank. The
average flow of funds since September was $20 billion, HSBC said
in a note on June 10.  The currency’s advance against the dollar this year made it
the best performer in  emerging markets  and the sole gainer in
Asia. That compares with the Russian ruble’s 5.2 percent plunge
and the Brazilian real’s 4.9 percent decline.  India ’s rupee fell
5.5 percent and touched a record low of 58.996 on June 11.  Slowing Economy  China’s industrial output growth slowed to 9.2 percent from
a year earlier in May, less than the 9.4 percent forecast in a
Bloomberg survey of economists. Exports rose the least in 10
months and factory-gate prices fell for a 15th month, official
figures released this month show.  “There are already signs that the strength of the currency
is potentially damaging China’s exports performance,” said
 Robert Minikin , a foreign-exchange strategist at Standard
Chartered in Hong Kong. “We expect no further appreciation in
the yuan by the end of the year, and see some risks it could
weaken in the coming weeks and months.”  Analysts are paring their estimates for the country’s
economic growth following the data. Barclays Plc. cut forecasts
for this year and the next to 7.4 percent, from 7.9 percent and
8.1 percent, respectively.  Australia  and New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. trimmed its 2013 projection to 7.6 percent from 7.8
percent. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Nomura said they see
downside risks to their forecasts. The World Bank today reduced
its growth forecast for the world economy to 2.2 percent from a
January estimate of 2.4 percent.  Band Widening  Premier Li Keqiang reiterated last month the country is
making progress in liberalizing its capital account. Slower yuan
gains could open the window for such reforms, including
broadening the currency’s daily trading band,  Paul Mackel , a
Hong Kong-based strategist at HSBC, wrote in a June 10 note.  The People’s Bank of China sets a daily reference rate for
the spot market in Shanghai, and limits the yuan’s moves to a
maximum 1 percent on either side of the fixing.  China’s Finance Ministry will sell 13 billion yuan of bonds
in Hong Kong on June 26 and 10 billion yuan more in the second
half, it said on June 9. It will offer bonds with a 30-year
tenor for the first time. Ten billion yuan of the bonds issued
this month will be sold to institutional investors with the rest
going to global central banks.  Declines in the yuan and related assets could be seen as a
“buying opportunity” as the medium-term outlook for the
currency is positive because China’s trade balance still looks
healthy, according to Standard Chartered’s Minikin.  More Expensive  Five-year credit-default swaps protecting China’s sovereign
debt rose 21 basis points this month to 107.5 in New York, the
highest since Aug. 3, according to data provider CMA, which is
owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers
in the privately negotiated market. The contracts pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent if a government or company fails to adhere to its
debt agreements.  The one-year offshore yuan cross-currency  swap  rate, the
fixed cost paid to exchange dollars into the currency, jumped 34
basis points this month to 2.56 percent, the highest since Jan.
1, Bloomberg data showed.  “The expectation of slower yuan appreciation impacts cross
currency swap curves as they move higher, which in turn makes
holding bonds more expensive,” said Vishal Goenka, Singapore-based head of local currency credit trading for Asia at Deutsche
Bank AG. “Hence, Dim Sum bond yields should move higher. Higher
interest rates and wider credit spreads may make some
investment-grade bonds look overvalued.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  