-- Taiwan Semi to Boost Expenditure on Mobile Devices Demand
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2012-04-09T05:56:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/taiwan-semi-to-boost-expenditure-on-mobile-devices-demand.html
Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing
Co. (2330) , the world’s largest contract maker of chips, will increase
capital expenditure this year on higher demand for
semiconductors that go into tablet devices and mobile phones.  Demand for 28-nanometer technology is “very much stronger
than we expected,” Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Morris Chang  said in Tainan,  Taiwan  today, referring to the company’s
most-advanced production process. The higher spending also comes
from TSMC’s decision to commence using 20-nanometer technology
earlier than previously planned, he said.  Demand for chips that that go into mobile devices is
increasing as more people use phones and tablet computers for
accessing the Internet and playing games and video. U.S.
smartphone users now exceed 100 million,  Comscore Inc. (SCOR)  said last
month.  TSMC is currently unable to meet demand for its 28-
nanometer technology, Elizabeth Sun, a spokeswoman at the
Hsinchu, Taiwan-based company, told Bloomberg News.  Four phases of the company’s Tainan 12-inch plant are in
operation now, yielding about $6 billion in annual revenue. The
fifth and sixth phases of expansion, to commence volume
production in 2014, will yield an additional $6 billion in
 revenue , cost NT$350 billion ($12 billion) and add 4,500 jobs,
Chang said.  TSMC, which also operates an older factory in Tainan using
8-inch wafers, has invested NT$450 billion at the southern
Taiwan site to date, Chang said.  One nanometer, equal to one billionth of a meter, measures
the size of connections within a chip. A smaller number implies
more advanced technology, allowing semiconductors to be smaller
and more powerful.  Image Sensors  Some of this year’s extra spending will also go toward
expanding production of image sensors used in cameras and other
specialty products, Chang said.  Shares of TSMC, which manufactures chips  used in  devices
including Apple Inc. iPads and  Dell Inc. (DELL)  computers, fell 1
percent to NT$83 in Taipei trading today. They have gained 9.5
percent this year, outperforming the benchmark Taiex index’s 7.5
percent advance.  TSMC will increase capacity at its Taichung, Taiwan
facility 50 percent to 75,000 wafers a month by May next year,
J.K. Wang, a vice president said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  