-- Taiwan Dollar, Bonds Little Changed on Intervention Speculation
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-04-09T08:46:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/taiwan-dollar-halts-two-day-decline-on-intervention-speculation.html
Taiwan ’s dollar was little changed,
after two days of losses, on speculation the central bank will
seek currency gains to contain inflation. Bonds were steady.  Consumer prices climbed 1.21 percent in March from a year
earlier, faster than a revised 0.23 percent increase in
February, data showed on April 5. Exports fell 3.2 percent last
month from a year earlier, after rising 10 percent in the
preceding period, the Ministry of Finance reported in Taipei
today. The median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News
survey was a 4.5 percent drop.  “Maybe the central bank will use the  Taiwan dollar ’s
appreciation to curb inflation,” said  Albert Lee , a Taipei-
based fixed-income trader at Cathay United Bank Co.  Taiwan’s dollar was at NT$29.568 against its U.S.
counterpart, compared with NT$29.562 at the end of last week,
according to Taipei Forex Inc. The currency has rallied 2.4
percent this year. One-month implied volatility, a measure of
price swings that options traders use, increased 10 basis
points, or 0.1 percentage point, to 4 percent.  Central bank Governor Perng Fai-nan, who has highlighted
the risk of costlier oil hurting domestic spending and exports,
said on March 22 the monetary authority will monitor consumer
prices closely.  Overseas investors sold $251 million more Taiwan stocks
than they bought today, according to exchange data, taking this
month’s net sales to $809 million amid concern policy makers
will impose a capital-gains tax on stock trades. A government
panel will formulate a proposal for such a levy this week,
Deputy Finance Minister Hwang Ding-Fang said today.  The yield on the 1.25 percent bonds due March 2022 was
little changed at 1.28 percent, according to Gretai Securities
Market. The overnight  money-market  increased one basis point, or
0.01 percentage point, to 0.45 percent, according to a weighted
average compiled by the Taiwan Interbank Money Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  