-- Alcoa Sees Aluminum Cuts as Production Gains: Commodities
-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2012-04-10T13:36:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/alcoa-sees-aluminum-cuts-as-production-gains-commodities.html
Alcoa Inc. (AA)  Chief Executive Officer
 Klaus Kleinfeld  said in January China’s aluminum industry would
cut 1.1 million metric tons of unprofitable capacity “pretty
soon.” So far that prediction isn’t close to coming true.  China’s aluminum industry, the world’s largest, saw output
rise 18 percent in the first two months of the year, according
to International Aluminum Association  data . That’s helped to
boost global supplies and create a surplus of the metal while
curbing prices, which are down 22 percent from a year ago.  Declining prices and rising energy costs have eroded
smelting margins, prompting New York-based Alcoa and its
Norwegian competitor  Norsk Hydro ASA (NHY)  to announce 771,000 metric
tons of capacity cuts this year.  China ’s smelters are avoiding
that fate because they don’t appear to be paying market rates
for power, said Ken Hoffman, an analyst at Bloomberg Industries.
Chinese plants owned by local governments are resisting closures
in order to preserve jobs, said Lloyd O’Carroll, an analyst at
Davenport & Co.  “If production is not economic, at some point it will be
shut down,” O’Carroll, who is based in Richmond,  Virginia , said
in an interview. “The question is how long will it take.”  Alcoa, the first company in the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  to report quarterly earnings, will publish its results
after the close of trading today. It will post a first-quarter
loss of 4 cents a share, according to the average of 19
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Aircraft Demand  That would be the first time the company has reported two
consecutive quarterly losses on an adjusted basis since 2009,
when commodity markets were still reeling in the aftermath of
the global financial crisis. Alcoa has fallen 47 percent in the
past year, the  most  in the DJIA. Libby Archell, a spokeswoman
for Alcoa, declined to comment.  Alcoa fell 0.9 percent to $9.51 at 9:32 a.m. in  New York .  To be sure, improved demand from U.S. auto and aircraft
manufacturers and Chinese government stimulus will mean aluminum
prices will be higher in the fourth quarter compared with a year
earlier, O’Carroll said in a March 27 report. He also sees
production cuts eventually whittling down the oversupply of
aluminum, creating a deficit of 600,000 tons next year. Demand
in the U.S. and Canada rose 6 percent in January, the Aluminum
Association said yesterday.  Alcoa isn’t wholly reliant on aluminum smelting, which
accounted for about a third of its 2011  revenue . The flat-rolled
and engineered products segments generated 53 percent of sales.  New Smelters  The company is building cheaper, more efficient capacity in
 Saudi Arabia . Kleinfeld, 54, said in January he plans to move
Alcoa to the 41st percentile on the aluminum industry’s so-
called production cost curve by 2015, from 51st.  The company has announced plans to shut plants in Texas,
Tennessee, Spain and  Italy  this year, eliminating 12 percent of
its capacity, or 531,000 tons. Norsk Hydro shut a 60,000-ton
line at its Kurri-Kurri smelter in  Australia  and cut 180,000
tons at a German plant in January.  About one-third of Chinese capacity, or 5.7 million tons,
is “bleeding money” and won’t be able to afford power prices,
Kleinfeld told analysts in a Jan. 9 conference call to discuss
Alcoa’s fourth-quarter results.  Energy was the second-largest single cost in aluminum
production in 2010, after bauxite, accounting for 26 percent of
expenses, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Crude  oil
prices  averaged 8.9 percent higher in the first quarter from a
year earlier.  ‘Strategic Good’  Still, Chinese aluminum output  climbed  to 3.07 million tons
in January and February, from 2.59 million tons a year earlier.
Investors will be paying attention today to the gap between
Kleinfeld’s prediction and what’s going on in China, said Kuni Chen, an analyst at CRT Capital Group in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  “The one thing they’ll need to address is that you have
not seen any production cuts or production discipline out of
China,” Chen said.  China will add another 2.9 million tons of output in 2012
as it builds plants at a faster rate than it shuts older ones,
said O’Carroll, who has a buy  rating  on Alcoa and predicts a
first-quarter profit of 7 cents a share.  “Aluminum is a strategic good for China,” said Hoffman,
who is based in Princeton,  New Jersey . “This helps China
maintain and even increase capacity and production.”  Soaring Inventories  Global aluminum use will be 43.9 million tons in 2012,
assuming Chinese consumption of 17.6 million tons, said Andrew Cosgrove, an analyst at Bloomberg Industries in Princeton, New
Jersey. Supply will be 46 million tons, resulting in a 2.1
million-ton surplus, he said.  In addition to this surplus, inventories at warehouses
monitored by the London Metal Exchange have more than  tripled 
since Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. filed for bankruptcy in
September 2008. The stockpiles averaged 5.05 million tons in the
first quarter, 11 percent higher than a year earlier, according
to LME data.  Aluminum for delivery in three months on the LME averaged
$2,219 a ton in the first quarter, 12 percent lower than a year
earlier. The metal dropped 0.8 percent to $2,092 at 2:31 p.m.
London time.  There may be more production cutbacks outside China this
year. Oleg Deripaska, the CEO and largest shareholder of
 Russia ’s United Co. Rusal, said in December that falling prices
may prompt smelters to shut down 3 million tons of capacity
globally.  Rusal, the world’s largest aluminum producer, has dropped
56 percent in the last year in Hong Kong trading. Aluminum Corp.
of China Ltd., the country’s biggest maker of the metal, has
fallen 52 percent. Norsk Hydro has declined 37 percent.  “China’s structural problem is really the world’s
problem,” Hoffman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  