-- Ally Dismisses 33 as Broker-Dealer Ends Mortgage Activity
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-04-09T19:27:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/ally-broker-dealer-unit-winds-down-mortgage-related-activities.html
Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) , the home and
auto lender majority owned by U.S. taxpayers, will cease
underwriting and trading mortgage-backed securities at its
broker-dealer and dismiss most of its 33 traders and analysts.  Ally Securities will continue doing business for the
company’s insurance operations, according to a statement e-
mailed today by  Gina Proia , a spokeswoman for the Detroit-based
firm. New York-based Ally Securities, led by Jeff Gravelle, will
offer new jobs within the company to a “select number” of
people, Proia said in a phone interview.  The firm “will be winding down that operation in an
orderly manner over the coming weeks,” according to the
statement. “These activities are no longer strategic for
Ally.” All existing trades will be honored, the company said.  Chief Executive Officer  Michael Carpenter  is searching for
ways to repay the U.S. after President Barack Obama vowed in
2009 to recover “every last dime” of taxpayer bailout money.
Carpenter, who once predicted that a pending initial public
offering could value Ally at $30 billion, later said the sale
won’t happen until there’s progress on mortgages. People with
knowledge of the matter have said Ally is considering placing
its money-losing mortgage business into bankruptcy.  Ally is 74 percent owned by the U.S. Treasury Department
after infusions of more than $17 billion from federal programs.  The broker-dealer underwrites and trades mortgage-backed
securities on behalf of affiliates, according to a regulatory
 filing . It also brokers whole loans, Proia said. In July 2011,
Ally contributed $175 million to the business, which used the
funds to increase its trading positions, the filing said.  The unit held $695 million in assets at the end of last
year, of which almost all, or $678 million, was so-called agency
mortgage-backed securities, the filing shows. Total equity
exceeded $248 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in New York at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  