-- AMSC Taking Sinovel Infringement Suit to China’s Supreme Court
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2012-04-09T22:39:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/amsc-taking-sinovel-infringement-suit-to-china-s-supreme-court.html
  American Superconductor Corp. (AMSC) , a
U.S. maker of wind-turbine components, filed an appeal with
China’s highest court for an intellectual property lawsuit
against  Sinovel Wind Group Co. (601558)   The company filed the appeal with China’s Supreme People’s
Court today for a case that was dismissed by a provincial high
court last week, Devens, Massachusetts-based AMSC said in a
statement.  AMSC is pursuing four suits in China against Sinovel,
seeking more than $1.2 billion in damages. It accused the
Chinese turbine maker, formerly its largest customer, of
violating sales contracts and stealing its technology in
September. Today’s filing is for a $200,000 copyright
infringement case against the Chinese turbine maker and Dalian
Guotong Electric Co.  “While this case means little to us from a monetary
perspective, we will continue to seek justice through the
Chinese courts on this matter of global importance,” John
Powell, AMSC’s general counsel, said in the statement.  Sinovel stopped accepting contracted shipments in March
2011. A former AMSC employee in Austria was sentenced to a year
in jail after pleading guilty in September to criminal charges
including economic espionage for obtaining software and source
code for Sinovel.  The Hainan Higher Court upheld April 5 a February decision
by the Hainan Province No. 1 Intermediate People’s Court to
dismiss the copyright infringement case and transfer it to
arbitration.  AMSC has three other cases pending in  China . The Beijing
No. 1 Intermediate People’s Court rejected in February a request
from Sinovel to move to arbitration another copyright
infringement suit, which is seeking $6 million in damages.  The company is also pursing a $450 million trade secret
case with the Beijing Higher People’s Court and a $770 million
case that will be heard in arbitration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  