-- Anonymous Blamed for Attacks on Technology Group Websites
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n   a n d   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-04-10T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/anonymous-blamed-for-attacks-on-ustelecom-group-websites.html
Two technology trade associations
said they were targeted by the hacker-activist group Anonymous
as it singled out supporters of proposed legislation to improve
U.S. cybersecurity.  Anonymous claimed credit for denial-of-service assaults on
the TechAmerica and USTelecom websites, according to the
associations representing companies including  International
Business Machines Corp. (IBM) ,  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and AT&T Inc. Such
offensives typically involve flooding a website with traffic,
causing it to crash.  The organizations said the attacks amount to reprisal for
supporting the legislation, among cybersecurity bills under
consideration by Congress, designed to encourage companies and
government agencies to voluntarily share information about cyber
threats.  Users couldn’t connect to the website for USTelecom, which
represents telephone companies led by AT&T,  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)  and CenturyLink Inc., starting April 8 and
the site was “up and down” yesterday as technicians worked to
restore service, said Anne Veigle, a spokeswoman.  The website of TechAmerica, whose members include IBM,
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and Apple, wasn’t loading yesterday afternoon.
The attack began April 8 and the association was working
yesterday to get the site back up, Stephanie Craig, a
TechAmerica spokeswoman, said in an interview.  The trade groups support cybersecurity legislation
introduced by Representatives Mike Rogers, a Michigan Republican
who is chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, and C.A.
“Dutch” Ruppersberger of  Maryland , the panel’s top Democrat.  Data-Sharing Legislation  USTelecom officials spotted a Web posting that said the
trade group’s website had been taken down by Anonymous members,
Karn Dhingra, a spokesman, said in an interview.  A Twitter account called @Anon_Central yesterday called the
Rogers bill “draconian” and posted a link to groups and
companies supporting the legislation.  “By launching a cyber attack in an effort to coerce,
intimidate and stifle speech, members of Anonymous are acting
contrary to the very freedoms and Internet norms that they
espouse,” Walter McCormick, president of USTelecom, said in an
e-mailed statement.  Shawn Osborne, TechAmerica’s president, said in a statement
that “these types of strong-arm tactics have no place in the
critical discussions our country needs to be having about our
cybersecurity, they just underscore the importance of them.”
TechAmerica will keep pushing for the Rogers bill, Osborne said.  The bill is HR 3523.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Engleman in  Washington  at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernie Kohn at 
 Bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 