-- Argentina Stock Exchange Chief Denies Boudou’s Bribe Claim
-- B y   B i l l   F a r i e s
-- 2012-04-09T17:28:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/argentina-stock-exchange-chief-denies-vice-president-bribe-claim.html
The head of the Buenos Aires Stock
Exchange, Adelmo Gabbi, said he will seek legal action against
Vice President  Amado Boudou  for accusing him of soliciting a
bribe in a scandal over a bankrupt company.  Boudou, 49, had his Buenos Aires apartment searched by
officials on April 4 as part of an investigation into whether he
improperly helped Ciccone Calcografica SA, a printing company,
exit bankruptcy. In a 40-minute  televised speech  the following
day, Boudou said Gabbi last year solicited a bribe on behalf of
another company to help him resolve legal problems. Boudou added
that he never took any steps to “favor” Ciccone.  “I categorically deny that this happened,” Gabbi, 68,
said in an April 7 e-mailed statement. “I will have to take the
strongest legal action for this to safeguard my name and
honor.”  Boudou today filed a sworn statement to the court ratifying
his claim against Gabbi, a preliminary step required before
authorities decide whether to initiate an investigation,
according to an official in the vice president’s office who
declined to be identified because he isn’t authorized to speak
publicly. The filing comes 13 months after Boudou said the bribe
request was first made.  Boudou, who was economy minister from 2009-2011, said his
only action related to Ciccone was to respond to a letter from
the country’s tax agency about the company, writing that it was
the government’s policy to protect jobs. He described the
controversy as a “media-inspired soap opera” intended to
undermine President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s government.  “It is the policy of our government to protect jobs and
strategic companies,” Boudou said in his April 5 speech. “We
are going to protect all the companies in  Argentina , as we have
been doing, when these firms create jobs and substitute
imports.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Faries in  Buenos Aires  at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  