-- Martin Marietta Hostile Bid Not Valid, Vulcan Lawyer Says
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-04-09T22:56:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/martin-marietta-hostile-bid-not-valid-vulcan-lawyer-says-1-.html
Martin Marietta Materials Inc. (MLM) ’s bid
for gravel-industry rival  Vulcan Materials Co. (VMC)  should be barred
because it violates a confidentiality contract between the
companies, a Vulcan lawyer told a judge.  In post-trial arguments today, lawyer William Savitt,
representing Vulcan, told Delaware Chancery Court Judge Leo Strine Jr. that Martin Marietta officials wrongly used Vulcan’s
non-public information in its hostile $5.5 billion bid.  Martin Marietta “walked right past the contract and
launched its own hostile offer,” said Savitt. “Martin has to
be held to account.”  Strine told lawyers after the seven-hour hearing that he’d
write a decision, then added “I’m not saying when.” He
described the case as “a hall of mirrors” that will require
extensive analysis.  Martin Marietta  argued that the offer isn’t prohibited by
the confidentiality agreement between the rock-crushing
companies. Robert Zimet, representing Raleigh, North Carolina-
based Martin Marietta, told Strine that the language of the
contract must be specific.  “We don’t have that here,” he said.  Martin Marietta offered on Dec. 12 to exchange half a
share for each share of Vulcan and pay a quarterly dividend
equal to 20 cents a Vulcan share.  Public Shares  Strine must decide whether agreements between the companies
prohibit Martin Marietta from offering to buy Vulcan’s public
shares and soliciting votes for five nominees for its board,
according to court papers.  After a weeklong nonjury trial, Strine suggested on March 2
that one remedy might be to block the solicitation for a period
of time.  He also said he didn’t think there was “ideal scrutiny on
either side” of the potential combination, based on friendly
negotiations that took place two years ago. The talks foundered
when executives couldn’t decide who would lead the merged
company, Strine said.  Combining the companies is “compelling” and would create
“enormous  shareholder value ,” Martin Marietta’s chairman,
Stephen P. Zelnak, told the judge during the trial.  Merging Birmingham, Alabama-based Vulcan, headed by Chief
Executive Officer Don James, and Martin Marietta, led by CEO
Ward Nye “seems to be a natural fit,” Zelnak said.  The mix could result in $350 million in combined cost-
savings, according to testimony.  Martin Marietta fell $1.26 or 1.5 percent to $83.83 in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. Vulcan declined 48 cents
or 1.1 percent to $42.02.  The case is Martin Marietta Materials v.  Vulcan Materials ,
CA7102, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  