-- Las Vegas Deficit Leads Fitch to Drop Credit Outlook to Negative
-- B y   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d
-- 2012-04-09T20:09:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/las-vegas-deficit-leads-fitch-to-drop-credit-outlook-to-negative.html
Las Vegas ’s credit outlook was
lowered to negative from stable on $561.2 million of debt by
 Fitch Ratings , which cited budget deficits and the lingering
housing crisis.  The company assigned AA ratings, its third-highest, to
$19.9 million of limited tax general-obligation bonds expected
to be priced April 17 in a negotiated sale. It also affirmed its
AA rating on $353 million of outstanding limited tax general-
obligation bonds and AA- rating on $188.3 million of 2009
certificates of participation.  “The city has been facing lower revenues for some years
now and they’ve been able to manage lower revenues with some
cuts to expenditures and some one-time strategies, but they are
still in a situation where over the long term their expenditures
are outweighing the revenue available to them,” said  Stephen
Walsh , a director in Fitch’s public finance group, said in a
telephone interview.  Last week, the council for America’s fastest-growing large
city from 2000 to 2010, unanimously approved a tentative budget
for fiscal 2013 in which revenue is expected to come in $10.4
million short of expenditures, according to the  Las Vegas Sun .
The budget projects revenue down 0.4 percent from last year,
mainly due to a decline in property-tax revenue.  Improvements in tourism and gambling business haven’t yet
begun to help the housing market in the city, where home values
are declining for the sixth consecutive year to approach 1997
values, Fitch said. The company also pointed to increasing costs
for police services as a “key fiscal challenge.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda J. Crawford in Phoenix at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  