-- Asia Stocks Drop as U.S. Jobs Data Dims Recovery Outlook
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2012-04-09T08:49:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/asia-stocks-drop-as-u-s-jobs-data-dims-recovery-outlook.html
Asian  stocks  fell for a fourth day,
the longest losing streak on the regional benchmark since
November, as a weaker-than-expected U.S. jobs report cast doubt
on the strength of the recovery in the world’s biggest economy
and  China ’s inflation accelerated.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  fell 2.4 percent in Tokyo after U.S.
payrolls grew at the slowest pace in five months and the yen
rose against the dollar, damping the outlook for export earnings.
China Vanke Co. led mainland developers lower after faster-than-
estimated inflation damped bets policy makers will cut lending
curbs. HTC Corp. dropped 6.8 percent in Taiwan after the
smartphone maker posted its biggest drop in profit since listing.  The MSCI  Asia  Pacific Index dropped 0.6 percent to 124.16
as of 5:11 p.m. in Tokyo, with about seven stocks falling for
each that rose. The measure lost 1.3 percent last week, the
biggest weekly decline since the period ended Dec. 16. Volume on
 Japan ’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average was 30 percent below the 30-day
intraday average, as markets were shut for holidays in  Hong Kong ,
 Australia ,  New Zealand ,  Thailand  and the  Philippines .  “We’re seeing markets correct pretty quickly,” said
Shintaro Takeuchi, a Tokyo-based portfolio manager at Tokio
Marine & Nichido Fire Insurance Co., which oversees about $106
billion. “Companies aren’t willing to boost capital investment,
leading to a sluggish rebound in employment. That means
companies aren’t confident in a full-scale recovery.”  Rally Slows  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 10 percent this year
through last week on signs the  U.S. economy  is recovering. Gains
slowed last month after China cut its target for economic growth,
seeking to cool its property market and become less reliant on
exports. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPXL1)  advanced 11 percent
since Dec. 30. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index gained 5.9 percent.  Japan’s Nikkei 225 fell 1.5 percent today after the yen
strengthened to a one-month high against the dollar. A gauge of
volatility on the measure rose 2.5 percent to 20.44, indicating
traders expect a swing of about 5.9 percent over the next 30
days.  South Korea ’s Kospi Index slid 1.6 percent amid heightened
tension on the Korean peninsula. North Korea appears to be
readying a nuclear weapons test after a long-range rocket launch
scheduled for as early as this week, according to a report by
South Korean intelligence officials. A gauge of volatility among
core stocks on the Kospi rose 6.5 percent.  China Inflation  The Shanghai Composite Index, which tracks the bigger of
China’s two main stock exchanges, slipped 0.9 percent. The
 Taiwan  Taiex Index lost 1.4 percent, while  Singapore ’s Straits
Times Index declined 1 percent. The BSE India Sensitive Index
dropped 1.2 percent.  Futures on the S&P 500 Index sank 1 percent today amid
signs a recovery in the U.S. jobs market may be losing steam.
American employers last month added the fewest jobs since
October, the Labor Department said on April 6, a market holiday
in the U.S.  Japanese exporters fell after the yen reached 81.20 against
the dollar today, the strongest since March 8. The yen’s
appreciation damps the value of some overseas income for
Japanese companies.  A strengthening currency also puts more pressure on the
 Bank of Japan  to do more to stimulate the economy. Governor
Masaaki Shirakawa and his colleagues may expand the bank’s asset
purchases at a meeting on April 27 when inflation data becomes
available, according to Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities Co.,
Mizuho Securities Co. and SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. The central
bank concludes a meeting on interest-rate policy tomorrow.  Toyota, Canon  Toyota, Asia’s biggest automaker, fell 2.4 percent to 3,310
yen today.  Canon Inc. (7751) , a Japanese camera maker that gets more
than 80 percent of its revenue abroad, dropped 1.7 percent to
3,780 yen.  Stocks fell in China after the government report on
inflation suggested the central bank may have less room to ease
monetary policy. Consumer prices gained 3.6 percent in March,
exceeding the median economist estimate of 3.4 percent, amid
rising wages and higher fuel prices, the National Bureau of
Statistics said today.  China Vanke, the biggest mainland developer, slid 1.9
percent to 8.22 yuan. Gemdale Corp., the fourth largest, fell 2
percent to 5.96 yuan.  China Citic Bank Corp., the banking unit of the nation’s
largest investment company, declined 2.3 percent to 4.19 yuan.  “Rebounding inflation will weigh on investor sentiment,”
said Wu Kan, a Shanghai-based  fund manager  at Dazhong Insurance
Co., which oversees $285 million. “Some of the expected
monetary easing such as a reserve ratio cut may be delayed.”  HTC Falls  HTC, Asia’s second-largest smartphone maker, declined 6.8
percent to NT$545 after it said profit plunged 70 percent from a
year earlier amid competition from Apple and Samsung.  Stocks on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index are  valued  at 1.4
times book value, compared with 2.3 times for the S&P 500 and
1.4 times for the Stoxx 600, according to Bloomberg data. A
number below 1 means companies can be bought for less than value
of their assets.  Defense contractors advanced in  Seoul  after satellite
photographs of a nuclear test site near North Korea’s border
with Russia and China show excavation consistent with
preparations for previous tests in 2006 and 2009, according to a
report obtained by Bloomberg News.  Speco Co., which makes parts for naval ships, rallied 15
percent to 3,895 won. Shares of the company have surged 65
percent since North Korea on March 16 said it planned to test a
long-range rocket between April 12 and 16 to carry a satellite
into orbit.  Victek Co., a maker of military communications equipment,
jumped 15 percent to 3,260 won today. Huneed Technologies, which
makes radio frequency walkie-talkies for military use, added 15
percent to 4,600 won.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in  Tokyo  at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 