-- Masters TV Ratings Fall 22% as Bubba Watson Wins in Playoff
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-04-09T16:19:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/masters-golf-ratings-drop-22-on-cbs-for-watson-win-s-last-round.html
The final round of the  Masters
Tournament  drew its worst preliminary television ratings since
2004 as Bubba Watson topped Louis Oosthuizen in a sudden-death
playoff and  Tiger Woods  had his worst finish as a professional.  Yesterday’s fourth round at Augusta National Golf Club was
watched on CBS in an average of 8.1 percent of households in the
top 56 U.S. television markets, Jerry Caraccioli, a spokesman
for the  CBS Corp. (CBS)  network, said in a telephone interview. That’s
22 percent lower than the 10.4 rating CBS drew a year ago, when
Charl Schwartzel captured the title and Woods contended before
faltering over the final nine holes.  Watson, 33, won on the second playoff hole after hooking an
approach shot from out of the trees to 10 feet of the cup. That
set up a two-putt par for the win after  Louis Oosthuizen  made
bogey. It was Watson’s first major championship.  It was also the Easter holiday yesterday and television
viewers who did tune in didn’t get a chance to see much of
Woods, who began the day at 3-over par and shot a 2-over 74 to
tie for 40th place. A 14-time major-tournament champion who
hasn’t won a one of golf’s four biggest tournaments since the
2008  U.S. Open , Woods entered the tournament as the favorite
after winning the Arnold Palmer Invitational on March 25.  Phil Mickelson , another fan favorite, did contend,
finishing at 8-under -- two strokes behind the leaders -- to tie
for third with Lee Westwood, Matt Kuchar and  Peter Hanson .
Mickelson had an even-par round that included a triple bogey.  Audience Breakdown  Full national ratings won’t be available until April 12.
Mickelson’s win at the 2004 Masters drew a 7.3 national rating.
The previous low before that was Bernhard Langer’s victory in
1993, which drew a 6.8 for the final round.  Demographic breakdowns of the audience, including female-
male viewership, won’t be available until the full national
numbers are released, Caraccioli said. This year’s Masters
played out against the renewed issue of Augusta National’s all-
male membership.  Bloomberg News first reported the conflict between
Augusta’s men-only membership and International Business
Machines Corp.’s new chief executive officer, Virginia Rometty,
on March 28, setting off a nationwide debate on whether she
should be admitted.  The previous four CEO’s of IBM have been Augusta National
members.  Billy Payne , Augusta National’s chairman, repeatedly
refused to discuss the club’s membership during a news
conference on April 4, the day before the tournament started.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 