-- AT&T Remains in Talks With Union After Labor Accords Expire
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2012-04-09T20:17:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/at-t-remains-in-talks-with-union-after-labor-contracts-expire.html
AT&T Inc. (T) , the largest U.S. phone
company, and one of its unions extended negotiations to reach a
deal after four labor contracts expired.  AT&T, based in  Dallas , will resume talks with the union
today,  Marty Richter , a spokesman for the carrier, said today in
an e-mail. AT&T and the  Communications Workers of America  didn’t
agree before the expiration of the East, Legacy T, Midwest and
West contracts over the weekend, the carrier said in a statement
dated April 8.  The  Communications Workers of America  is renegotiating four
separate contracts with AT&T, affecting 40,000 workers. On March
31, union members  voted  to let CWA call strikes if agreements on
new contracts weren’t be reached. The parties “have agreed to
continue to negotiate,” AT&T said in the statement.  The union is focusing on local and economic issues such as
health care, pensions and pay, said Candice Johnson, a
spokeswoman for the CWA. “We’re just going to keep pushing,”
she said in an interview yesterday afternoon.  The union, which represents about 16 percent of AT&T’s
256,000 workers, has been organizing rallies and meetings to
help push for a deal to address issues ranging from guaranteed
weekend days off to health-care benefits. In 2004, it led a
four-day stoppage at SBC Communications Inc., which bought AT&T
the following year.  AT&T  fell  1 percent to $30.64 at the close in  New York . It
has advanced 1.3 percent this year.  Seeking Resolution  “Unions are trying to maintain many things they’ve gained
over the years, and it’s hard,” Ivan Smith, a partner at Lewis
 Brisbois Bisgaard & Smith LLP (1277L) , said in an interview. “In
general, the strike is the last thing a union wants. If the
employer can withstand a strike, you lose all the leverage you
had. You don’t make that move unless there’s no other
recourse.”  AT&T and  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  are negotiating new
union contracts amid declining margins and rising network
investment costs. In 2011, AT&T’s total operating revenues rose
1.9 percent to $126.7 billion while capital expenditure climbed
3.1 percent to $20.1 billion.  Last August, CWA called an end to a two-week strike by
35,000 members at Verizon and  Verizon Wireless , when the
companies agreed to extend the workers’ current contracts and
 resume bargaining . Verizon and Verizon Wireless, the unit it co-
owns with  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , and the union are  yet  to reach a
new agreement.  AT&T and Verizon regularly negotiate with unions
representing larger parts of their workforce. About 55 percent
of AT&T’s employees are represented by CWA, the International
Brotherhood of Electrical Workers or other unions, according to
the company’s  annual report .  Contracts covering about 120,000 employees will expire
during 2012, according to AT&T.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ville Heiskanen at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net  