-- Augusta Tradition Has World Bank Parallel, El-Erian Says
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   B e t t y   L i u
-- 2012-04-09T18:35:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/augusta-tradition-has-parallel-to-world-bank-pick-el-erian-says.html
Augusta National Golf Club’s
exclusion of women as members has a parallel to U.S. domination
of the  World Bank , according to Pacific Investment Management
Co.’sMohamed A. El-Erian.  “There are places where traditions are used to maintain
practices that are totally outdated,” El-Erian, chief executive
officer at Pimco, manager of the world’s biggest bond fund, said
in a telephone interview today. “My 8-year-old daughter was
very surprised when she heard that Augusta doesn’t allow women
as members,” El-Erian said in a separate “In the Loop”
interview with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television.  The U.S. is the bank’s largest shareholder and has always
picked the bank’s president, a tradition since the end of World
War II that’s now being disputed by rival candidates. Augusta
National, the private golf course founded in Georgia in 1933 and
home of the  Masters Tournament  that ended yesterday, has
maintained its all-male membership policy even after Virginia
“Ginni” Rometty became the first female chief executive
officer of International Business Machines Corp.  IBM’s CEO traditionally dons the club’s signature green 
member blazer at the tournament, as do the CEOs of co-sponsors 
Exxon Mobil Corp. and AT&T Inc.  A group of former World Bank officials, including one-time
chief economist Francois Bourguignon, supports Nigerian Finance
Minister Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala’s candidacy to become the lender’s
president. The 39 former managers, in a letter sent to the
bank’s members, have cited Okonjo-Iweala’s “deep experience in
international and national issues of economic management” and
said she has the ability to increase the bank’s effectiveness.
Okonjo-Iweala was a managing director at the bank until August.  U.S. Nominee  The U.S. nominee, Dartmouth College President Jim Yong Kim,
has received an endorsement from countries including Canada and
 Japan . Another candidate is former Colombian Finance Minister
Jose Antonio Ocampo. The World Bank will interview the three
candidates today through April 11 and plans to announce its
decision next week.  “We have three highly qualified candidates,” said El-
Erian, a former deputy director at the  International Monetary
Fund , in the phone interview “They are highly qualified, but
they are not equal.”  President  Barack Obama ’s spokesman and  Mitt Romney , the
potential Republican Party challenger, said April 5 that Augusta
National should admit female members.  Edward Barbini , a
spokesman for Armonk, N.Y.-based IBM, said “IBM has no comment”
when asked about the company’s Masters sponsorship and whether
the statements by the Obama spokesman,  Jay Carney , and Romney
had changed its position. The club extended an invitation in
1990 to its first African-American member, Gannett Co.
television President Ron Townsend.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Betty Liu in New York at 
 bliu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Cox  at 
 pcox16@bloomberg.net  