-- Avon CEO Appointment Raises Doubt over Coty Deal
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2012-04-09T20:17:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/avon-appoints-sherilyn-mccoy-as-ceo.html
Avon Products Inc. (AVP) ’s naming of
 Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s Sherilyn McCoy as chief executive officer
may delay the company’s turnaround efforts and decrease the
chances of a takeover by Coty Inc., analysts said.  Hiring McCoy, 53, shows Avon is serious about proceeding
with its turnaround plan and reinforces that it isn’t interested
in Coty’s $10 billion takeover offer, said Lauren DeSanto, an
analyst for  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  in  Chicago . That plan may take
longer under McCoy, a 30-year veteran of J&J, who may need time
to learn the company’s rare door-to-door sales model.  “She doesn’t have direct sales experience, and there’s
concern that no deal is going to happen,” DeSanto said in a
telephone interview. “Not to say that she isn’t a capable
leader, but Avon does face a unique set of problems that are
pretty serious.”  McCoy will be working to reverse three years of profit
declines and complete an investigation into Avon’s overseas
business practices all while ousted CEO  Andrea Jung  remains as
chairman. The company last week rejected a $23.25-a-share cash
offer from Coty, which said it took the offer public to convince
shareholders to pressure the board into accepting.  Avon fell 3.1 percent to $22.69 at the close in New York.
The shares have  tumbled  19 percent in the past 12 months. The
stock rose 17 percent on April 2, the day Coty made its offer.  McCoy takes over at Avon on April 23 after 30 years at J&J,
beginning as a research scientist and most recently as vice
chairman of the pharmaceutical and consumer division. She had
been considered for that company’s CEO job, which went to  Alex Gorsky  in February.  Chemical Engineering  McCoy, a chemical engineer by training who collected four
patents while at J&J, was one of two executives in the running
to succeed William Weldon as CEO as the company tried to rebound
from product recalls. J&J announced Feb. 22 that the post will
go to Gorsky, who oversees medical devices and the company’s
supply chain. Avon began looking for Jung’s replacement in
December.  “It’s someone who has an excellent reputation from J&J,
but it’s also someone who doesn’t have a lot of experience in
this business, so it will take a while for her to get up to
speed and set up a plan,” said  Ali Dibadj , an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York. “Either it takes a
while for the plan to come to fruition, or Andrea Jung is still
at the helm, neither of which are a short-term positive for the
stock and Avon’s investors.”  Avon’s board saw a unique set of skills in McCoy as it
conducted a search of candidates across the direct selling and
consumer-product industries, said Jennifer Vargas, a spokeswoman
for Avon.  Drug Approvals  At J&J, McCoy oversaw businesses generating about $39.4
billion in revenue, more than three times the $11.3 billion in
sales Avon had last year. She helped engineer a turnaround in
J&J’s pharmaceutical division that garnered five new drug
approvals last year. The unit also recalled dozens of brands of
consumer medicines, including Tylenol and Benadryl, during her
tenure as over-the-counter sales slumped.  Before taking over the pharmaceutical division in 2009,
McCoy ran the company’s Surgical Care Group. Earlier, she served
as head of the company’s medical devices division in  Latin
America .  McCoy’s hiring should be viewed as good news because it
shows Avon could attract an executive with extensive experience,
said  Connie Maneaty , an analyst at BMO Capital Markets in New
York.  “Concerns that investors had that a new CEO wouldn’t have
authority” with Jung on the board should be alleviated, Maneaty
said in an interview. “Someone who has gotten as high as Sheri
has in a very big organization is not going to come to Avon in
any subservient role.”  Coty Offer  While Avon turned down Coty’s offer, it previously
considered buying the company, a person with knowledge of the
situation said last week. Avon sees strategic benefits to a tie-
up and may be open to talks once a CEO is selected, said the
person, who declined to be identified because the process is
private.  Coty Chairman Bart Becht said last week that it “would not
be helpful” for Avon to hire a new CEO.  Tom Johnson , a spokesman for Coty, declined to comment
today.  Avon had been focused on finding an executive with overseas
experience to replace Jung, a person familiar with the matter
said last week. More than 80 percent of Avon’s sales last year
came from outside  North America . J&J generated 56 percent of
sales outside the U.S. last year.  The company is dealing with internal and federal
investigations into whether executives bribed foreign officials
in violation of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.  “You need someone who he is heroic with super powers to
pull this together,” Morningstar’s DeSanto said. “It doesn’t
get any tougher than this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in  New York  at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  