-- Bank of America, Barclays Deny Illegal Acts Over Archstone
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-04-09T16:01:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/bank-of-america-barclays-deny-illegal-acts-over-archstone-1-.html
Bank of America Corp.  and  Barclays
Plc (BARC) , which have been trying to sell part of a stake in Archstone
to Sam Zell’s  Equity Residential (EQR) , denied they engaged in illegal
or harmful conduct, as  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  alleged.  Bankrupt Lehman, which has agreed to buy half of the banks’
Archstone stake for $1.3 billion, revised a lawsuit last month
to stop them from selling their remaining stake for almost
$1.5 billion to the Zell company. The banks would be unjustly
enriched if Lehman was forced to match Zell’s price, the defunct
firm said in the amended complaint filed in Manhattan bankruptcy
court.  Lehman has said it wants to take control of Archstone in
preparation for a later sale to benefit creditors. The banks
have said they owe it to their shareholders to get the best
price they can. The Zell company said in February its minimum
price would be $1.5 billion if it exercised an option to buy the
remaining half of the banks’ stake.  “Bank of America denies that it has engaged in illegal
conduct or that any conduct that it is alleged to have engaged
in has harmed plaintiffs,” the second-biggest U.S. bank said in
its latest filing.  Archstone, which Lehman acquired in a $22 billion leveraged
buyout with Tishman Speyer Properties LP, has ownership
interests in hundreds of apartment developments from Washington
and  New York  to  San Francisco . Lehman and the banks made loans,
which they later converted to equity after Archstone faltered in
the 2008 credit crisis. Lehman previously owned 47 percent of
Archstone.  The bankruptcy case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,
08-13555, and the Archstone case is Archstone LB Syndication
Partner LLC v. Banc of America Strategic Venture Inc. (In re
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.), 11-02928,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 