-- Beijing Tightens Food Safety Control With Life Ban in New Rules
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-09T06:26:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/beijing-tightens-food-safety-control-with-life-ban-in-new-rules.html
Beijing plans to ban people
convicted of  food-safety  crimes from investing in and operating
related businesses as China’s government steps up measures
against such violations.  The city will better regulate the use of edible additives
in the catering industry, and crack down on the illegal use of
inedible substances and mislabeling of production and sell-by
dates, according to a draft amendment to food-safety regulations
published on the municipal government’s website. Beijing’s
government will seek the public’s opinion until April 25, it
said in a  statement  dated April 6.  The rules reflect China’s efforts to improve regulation of
the industry after a string of incidents related to tempered
food, including tainted milk, added to public concern over food
safety. Chinese Vice Premier  Li Keqiang  has called for harsh
punishments against violations and said the nation plans to
establish a long-term mechanism this year to check food safety.  China will prioritize regulation of non-edible additives
this year, the State Food and Drug Administration said March 16.
The agency urged local governments to step up supervision of
such additives, including antibiotics.  Six infants died and 300,000 were sickened in 2008 by
formula milk containing  melamine , a chemical used to make
plastics and adhesives, in China’s most severe food incident.  Further Scandals  The nation has faced more food-safety incidents in the past
year that has fanned public anger and anxiety.  A Beijing branch of  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  was found to have sold
chicken wings past their sell-by period last month, while
 Carrefour SA (CA)  mislabeled ordinary chicken as premium, forcing it
to shut an outlet in central China on orders from the local
government.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  temporarily closed all its 13 outlets
in Chongqing last year after mislabeling ordinary pork as
organic. Police detained 37 employees, and Ed Chan, Wal-Mart’s
head of China operations, resigned for personal reasons after
the incident.  China Mengniu Dairy Co.’s website was hacked in December
after regulators found excessive levels of toxin in its  milk
products .  Police in China have arrested at least 32 people for
producing “gutter oil,” which is reprocessed from restaurant
waste and resold as cooking oil, and seized more than 100 tons
of the substance, the Ministry of Public Security said in
September.  Beijing will ban the transportation and processing of waste
oil from restaurants by people who haven’t registered and
received approval from the municipal government, according to
the April 6 statement.  Food-related companies and operators whose licenses were
previously revoked may see their ban extended by five years from
three years currently, according to the draft amendment.  China ’s southern city of Shenzhen will offer payments of as
much as 500,000 yuan ($79,000) to people who give tip-offs that
help uncover food-safety scandals, the state-run Xinhua News
Agency reported last month, citing Guo Chen, a market-
supervision official.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yidi Zhao in Beijing at 
 yzhao7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  