-- Bernanke Sees Need for More Curbs on Shadow Banking
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-04-10T01:10:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/bernanke-sees-need-for-more-curbs-on-shadow-banking.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  called on regulators to stem risks from “shadow
banking” operating beyond traditional oversight and favored
steps to promote the “resiliency” of  money market funds .  “An important lesson learned from the financial crisis is
that the growth of what has been termed ‘shadow banking’ creates
additional potential channels for the propagation of shocks
through the financial system and the economy,” Bernanke said
today in a speech in Stone Mountain, Georgia.  Bernanke also called for close tracking of financial
innovation and backed curbs on intraday credit in tri-party repo
markets. While not specifying what steps he supports to increase
stability among money market funds, he referred to Securities
and Exchange Commission proposals to require firms to maintain
capital buffers or to redeem shares at the market value of
underlying assets rather than at a fixed price of $1.  Congress under a 2010 regulatory overhaul known as Dodd-
Frank mandated the Fed to safeguard stability partly by
monitoring firms whose collapse may provoke turmoil across
financial markets. The law is aimed at averting a repeat of the
credit crisis that was triggered by the collapse of U.S.
mortgage finance and deepened by the failure of  Lehman Brothers 
Holdings Inc. in 2008.  “About three and a half years have passed since the
darkest days of the financial crisis, but our economy is still
far from having fully recovered from its effects,” Bernanke
said in his only reference to the economy’s current condition.
He didn’t refer to current monetary policy.  Stocks Declined  U.S. stocks fell today and yields on 10-year Treasuries
slipped as  job creation  in the world’s biggest economy trailed
estimates last week. The  S&P 500  lost 1.1 percent to 1,382.20 in
 New York . The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell to 2.047
percent from 2.054 percent on April 6.  Responding to audience questions, Bernanke said a
regulation known as the Volcker rule, which bans banks from
risking capital by trading for their own accounts, raises a
“lot of complexities” and internationally “it is not going to
be a completely level playing field in that area.”  The rule, named for its original champion, former Fed
Chairman  Paul Volcker , is aimed at reducing the odds that banks
will make risky investments with their own capital and put
depositors’ money at risk. Bernanke said on Feb. 29 that the
central bank and other regulators won’t meet the July deadline
to complete work on the Volcker rule. The Fed has received over
17,000 comment letters on the proposal.  Correct Balance  The Fed will seek an “appropriate balance” between a ban
on proprietary trading and a rule that “allows appropriate
market making,” Bernanke said.  International capital regulations known as Basel III will
lead to “a very substantial increase in capital, and I think
that is essential,” he said.  The higher level of required bank capital “probably will
feed through” at least marginally to “the cost of credit” in
the economy, Bernanke said. The costs of higher capital are
small compared to the benefits from reducing the odds of a new
financial crisis, he said.  “The cost-benefit test is very easily passed,” he said.  Bernanke said the Dodd-Frank Act had removed some of the
Fed’s ability to make emergency loans, saying that “we can no
longer lend to an individual firm as we did in the crisis.”  “Fortunately, I don’t think that they weaken our ability
to provide backstop liquidity where necessary,” Bernanke said.
The Fed is still able to lend through the discount window or to
a broad class of borrowers in an emergency, he said.  Too Much Risk  Bernanke said that infrequent use of emergency programs as
well as new abilities to supervise different types of firms
should help reduce moral hazard, or excessive risking-taking by
firms that expect a government bailout. “Anytime you have a
safety net” regulators need a mechanism “to minimize moral
hazard,” he said.  Following the collapse of the housing bubble, regulators
will take steps to guard against another large decline in  home
prices , Bernanke said.  “Obviously, we have already taken steps and the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau will continue to take further steps
to provide additional protections and try to avoid any similar
event in the future,” Bernanke said.  Bernanke used his remarks at the 2012  Federal Reserve (FDTR)  Bank
of Atlanta Financial Markets Conference to summarize the Fed’s
progress in implementing the Dodd-Frank Act and to highlight
current challenges.  Warrant ‘Serious Consideration’  “Additional steps to increase the resiliency of money
market funds are important for the overall stability of our
financial system and warrant serious consideration,” he said.  The SEC is working on revamping rules for money market
funds, as regulators have debated how to make the funds more
stable since the 2008 collapse of the $62.5 billion Reserve
Primary Fund, which triggered an industry-wide run by clients
that helped freeze global credit markets.  The agency enacted changes two years later in an attempt to
prevent runs, including new liquidity requirements, shorter
maturity limits and enhanced disclosure mandates. SEC Chairman
 Mary Schapiro  has called for further steps to fix “weaknesses”
with the funds.  Bernanke, 58, also called on participants in the tri-party
repo market to eliminate intraday credit, something an industry
task force called on in 2010, he said.  ‘Some Progress’  “Although some progress has been made, securities dealers
and clearing banks have yet to fully implement that
recommendation,” Bernanke said. “Through supervision and other
means, we continue to push the industry toward this critical
goal.”  The Fed has been seeking to strengthen the tri-party
repurchase agreement market, which almost collapsed in 2008 amid
the demise of Bear Stearns Cos. and bankruptcy of Lehman
Brothers.  In February, the central bank said it will increase
oversight of efforts to protect the market for borrowing and
lending securities after an industry group, the Tri-Party Repo
Infrastructure Task Force, said more time was needed for it to
meet goals for reducing risk.  Repos are transactions used by the Fed’s primary dealers
for short-term funding and typically involve the sale of U.S.
government securities in exchange for cash, with the debt held
as collateral for the loan. Dealers agree to repurchase the
securities at a later date, and cash is sent back to the lender,
typically a money-market mutual fund.  In a tri-party arrangement, a third party, one of two
clearing banks, functions as the agent for the transaction and
holds the security as collateral.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   Steve Matthews in Stone Mountain,  Georgia  at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  