-- MBIA Misled N.Y. Regulator on Restructuring, Banks Say
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-04-09T17:38:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/mbia-misled-n-y-regulator-on-restructuring-banks-say.html
MBIA Inc. (MBI)  misled the New York
insurance regulator and concealed information about its
financial condition when it sought approval for its 2009
restructuring, banks suing the company said.  MBIA didn’t tell the New York Insurance Department about a
2008 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. study paid for by MBIA that
analyzed expected losses tied to mortgage debt and indicated
MBIA Insurance Corp. was insolvent, the plaintiffs said in court
papers dated March 16 and filed today.  The financial institutions challenging the restructuring
said that by concealing the study, MBIA misled state officials
who went on to approve the insurer’s split. The approval allowed
the company to move its guarantees on state and municipal bonds
out of the unit that insured some of Wall Street’s riskiest
mortgage debt.  “The information MBIA provided to the NYID was riddled
with misinformation and half-truths,” the banks said. The
filing was made by  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Natixis (KN) , and  Societe
Generale SA. (GLE)   MBIA and Eric Dinallo, the state insurance superintendent
at the time, were sued over the restructuring by institutions
that bought financial guarantee policies issued by MBIA
Insurance. They said the split left MBIA Insurance insolvent and
harmed policyholders. Many of the plaintiffs have withdrawn from
the litigation.  ‘Contrary’ to Facts  Kevin Brown, a spokesman for Armonk, New York-based MBIA,
said in an e-mailed statement that the banks’ allegations “are
contrary to the facts” and that the state’s approval “was
proper in all respects.”  “The New York State Insurance Department was given
unfettered access to MBIA’s books, records and personnel and
conducted a thorough, independent and comprehensive
investigation, prior to approving MBIA’s transformation,” he
said.  David Neustadt , a spokesman for the New York Department of
Financial Services, declined to comment. The department combines
the former state banking and insurance departments.  The case is ABN Amro Bank v. Dinallo, 601846-2009, New York
State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 