-- Billionaires Unmasked as Coty Persists in Pursuit of Avon
-- B y   D a v i d   D e   J o n g   a n d   A n n e t t e   W e i s b a c h
-- 2012-04-09T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/billionaires-unmasked-as-coty-persists-in-pursuit-of-avon.html
The German billionaires behind Coty
Inc.’s $10 billion bid for  Avon Products Inc. (AVP) , the world’s
largest direct seller of cosmetics, are the heirs to a 189-year-
old chemicals empire their father helped transform into one of
the largest consumer-goods companies in the world.  The four adopted children of Albert Reimann -- Renate Reimann-Haas, 60, Wolfgang Reimann, 59, Stefan Reimann-Andersen,
48, and Matthias Reimann-Andersen, 47 -- each own a quarter of
closely held investment company Joh. A. Benckiser SE, according
to a company spokesman. The family’s combined net worth is at
least $20 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Through Vienna-based JAB and its subsidiaries, the Reimanns
own 80 percent of Coty, which makes Calvin Klein fragrances and
OPI nail polish. They also own Labelux Group GmbH, which manages
luxury brands Bally, Belstaff and Jimmy Choo, and more than 15
percent of London-based  Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc (RB/) , maker of
Durex condoms and Nurofen painkillers.  “The Reimanns prefer to stay out of the limelight, leaving
the day-to-day business to professional managers they have
chosen to trust,” Michael Woywode, a professor who follows the
family at the University of Mannheim Business School in the
German city of the same name, said in a telephone interview
April 5. “They all keep a low profile.”  The reclusive billionaires, whose individual names have
never appeared on a major international rich list, were thrust
into the limelight last week when New York-based Avon rejected
Coty’s unsolicited cash bid on April 2. The heirs are based in
Ludwigshafen, in  Germany ’s Rhine-Neckar region, which is home to
 BASF SE (BAS) , the world’s biggest chemical maker.  ‘Three Fathers’  Peter Harf, who has worked for JAB for more than three
decades, is the family holding company’s chief executive
officer. Coty is operated by Chairman Bart Becht and CEO Bernd Beetz.  “Coty’s bid for the Avon baby has three fathers,” Harf
said in an e-mail on April 5. “Bernd Beetz, Bart Becht and
myself.”  The Reimanns support JAB’s bid for the door-to-door seller
of cosmetics and skin-care products, according to a person
familiar with the family’s thinking who asked not to be named
because the matter is private.  Coty, which makes fragrances for celebrities such as
Beyonce and Sarah Jessica Parker, had tried for months to sell
itself to Avon in a deal that would have left it as the biggest
shareholder of a combined public company. It is now seeking to
persuade Avon’s investors to support a deal that would involve
the cosmetics company becoming closely held.  $4.1 Billion Sales  Coty has $4.1 billion in annual sales and about $800
million in earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization. It would be valued at $8.8 billion excluding debt
based on the average enterprise value-to-Ebitda of four publicly
traded peers:  Elizabeth Arden Inc. (RDEN) , Avon, Estee Lauder Cos. and
 L’Oreal SA. (OR)  Avon has a market value of $10 billion.  Labelux generated about 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) in
revenue in 2011, according to the company spokesman. The
operation would be worth about $4.1 billion excluding debt,
based on an average of the enterprise value-to-Ebitda and price-
to-earnings multiples of four publicly traded peers:  Burberry
Group Plc (BRBY) , Salvatore Ferragamo SpA,  Tod’s SpA (TOD)  and  Hugo Boss AG. (BOS)   JAB’s stake in Reckitt Benckiser was worth $6.2 billion on
April 5. The Reimann family has earned about $1.5 billion in
stock sales and dividend income from Reckitt Benckiser and one
of its predecessors, Benckiser NV, since 1997.  Citric Acid, Phosphates  If successful, the Avon deal would mark the biggest
acquisition for the Reimanns since inheriting the company from
their father, who died in 1984. The family declined to comment
for this account. A company spokesman, who asked not to be named
because the family is private, provided details on their
corporate history.  The Reimann fortune began in 1823, when Johann Adam
Benckiser founded his namesake chemical company in Pforzheim,
Germany. Five years later, chemist Ludwig Reimann joined
Benckiser as co-owner. The duo sold citric acids and phosphates
to customers throughout  Europe . One of Benckiser’s heirs
eventually ceded his stake in the company to the Reimann family
after retiring childless.  In 1858, Reimann moved the operation to Ludwigshafen,
Germany. Reimann’s great-great-grandson, Albert, joined the
family business in 1923, at the age of 25, helping to run the
company alongside his father and uncles.  Denture Cream, Detergent  Albert Reimann inherited the entire company when his father
died in 1952. In the following decade, he introduced a slew of
consumer-goods into the company’s product line, including
Kukident denture adhesive cream in 1962 and Calgonit dishwasher
detergent in 1964.  In 1960, Reimann began hiring outsiders to help run the
business, starting with Martin Gruber, who was put in charge of
buying inventory. In 1978, Gruber became the company’s CEO.
Three years later they hired Peter Harf, a former  management
consultant  at  Boston Consulting Group  with a doctorate in
economics from Cologne University.  Reimann died in 1984, leaving each of his four adopted
children with a 25 percent stake in the company. Harf was
appointed JAB’s CEO by the Reimann heirs four years later, and
has run the business ever since.  Benckiser Foundation  The four Reimanns have never been involved in the company’s
day-to-day management. According to the JAB spokesman, most of
the billionaires are trained scientists. They run a
Ludwigshafen-based charitable group called Benckiser Foundation
for Youth Welfare, which set up the German branch of Big
Brothers Big Sisters.  Harf led the company through an international buying binge
in the late 1980s, acquiring European detergent makers Panigal
SpA, SA Camp Group and Mira Lanza SpA. In 1992, the company
bought Coty from  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  for about $440 million.  “Harf is unbelievably smart and capable,” Jim Stern,
chairman of  Tufts University  and CEO of New York-based Cypress
Group LLC, said in a telephone interview on April 4. Stern
befriended Harf when they were studying at  Harvard Business
School  in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , in the 1970s. “He really is
a class act.”  In 1997, JAB sold shares of Benckiser NV, maker of
household cleaning products Vanish and Cillit Bang, on the
Amsterdam Stock Exchange. Two years later, the company merged
with British consumer-goods outfit Reckitt & Colman Ltd. to
create Reckitt Benckiser. It generated more than $15 billion in
sales in 2011.  Moved to Austria  In 2006, after almost 150 years in Germany, Harf moved JAB
to  Austria  to incorporate the firm as a Societas Europaea. A
year after the move, Harf created the family’s luxury retail
group, Labelux. The company bought up fashion brands such as
Derek Lam, Belstaff and Bally, and in May 2011, purchased
shoemaker  Jimmy Choo  Ltd. from private-equity firm TowerBrook
Capital Partners LP for about 550 million pounds ($875 million).  In November 2011, Harf hired Becht to be Coty’s chairman.
Becht, a 55-year-old Dutchman who ran Benckiser NV and Reckitt
Benckiser from 1995 through last year, was brought on to develop
strategy with Bernd Beetz, who has been the fragrance maker’s
CEO since 2001.  The trio began to court Avon in an attempt to sell Coty to
the cosmetics seller before making its $10 billion cash bid,
which was rejected April 2.  Developing Markets  The perfume manufacturer is seeking to expand sales of its
products in developing markets such as  Brazil , Becht said in an
interview last week. More than 80 percent of Avon’s sales last
year came from outside  North America .  With three executives publicly bidding for Avon, the
Reimann billionaires are able to control their vast fortune
while remaining out of the limelight.  “In the Rhine-Neckar region where the Reimanns are from,
there are a few influential families and they all keep a low
profile,” said Woywode of the University of Mannheim. “Long-
established entrepreneur families in Germany often live
reclusively.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David De Jong in New York at 
 ddejong3@bloomberg.net ;
Annette Weisbach in Frankfurt at 
 aweisbach1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  