-- Brazil Caixa Cut Rates on Rousseff Call for Lower Spreads
-- B y   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o   a n d   K a t e r i n a   P e t r o f f
-- 2012-04-09T18:32:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/brazil-caixa-cut-rates-on-rousseff-call-for-lower-spreads.html
Caixa Economica Federal (CEFN3) ,  Brazil ’s
fifth-biggest lender by assets, cut  interest rates  to clients to
boost competition as President  Dilma Rousseff  pushes federally-
controlled banks to support economy growth.  Caixa said the rates will fall as much as 88 percent and
that the measure will affect loans for individuals and small-
sized companies, according to a statement distributed today in
Sao Paulo. Caixa is also boosting credit lines by more than 10
billion reais ($5.5 billion) to small-sized companies.  The decision isn’t “simply political” and it strengthens
the bank, Jorge Hereda, president of the Brasilia-based lender,
told reporters today at an event in Sao Paulo.  With the reductions, Caixa plans to lend 71 billion reais
by December under its “main credit lines”, according to the
statement. The bank’s loan portfolio may increase as much as 37
percent to 340 billion reais in 2012 from a year earlier, Jose Henrique Marques da Cruz, a vice president for the lender, said
at the same event.  Banco do Brasil SA (BBAS3) , also based in Brasilia, said on April 4
it would cut rates and increased lending to individual and
small- and mid-sized companies.  Spread Cuts  Rousseff wants “lower rates and spreads in Brazil,” she
said on April 3 after introducing incentives worth about 65
billion reais to stimulate manufacturing. Brazilian banks raised
average consumers borrowing costs to 45.4 percent in February
from 45.1 percent in January, the central bank said on March 27.  Since August, the monetary authority reduced interest by
275 basis points to 9.5 percent as it seeks to revive economic
growth. As part of the stimulus measures, the nation’s
development bank, known as BNDES, will receive a cash injection
from the Treasury of 45 billion reais to expand subsidized
lending.  “The government’s willingness to reduce lending costs to
foster economic growth” and “higher inter-bank competition”
can lead to a “decrease in lending spreads over 2012,” Rafael Ferraz and Francisco Kops, analysts at Banco J. Safra in  Sao
Paulo , wrote in a note to clients on April 4.  Brazil’s government is working to stimulate the economy
after growth slowed to 2.7 percent in 2011 from 7.5 percent in
2010. Economists cut their estimate for Brazil’s growth this
year to 3.2 percent from 3.23 percent, according to a weekly
central bank survey published on April 2.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net ;
Katerina Petroff in Sao Paulo at 
 kpetroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  