-- Brazil Rate Futures Yields Drop on Inflation Outlook; Real Rises
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2012-04-09T21:20:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/brazil-rate-futures-yields-drop-on-inflation-outlook-real-falls.html
Yields on Brazilian interest-rate
futures contracts fell for a third day after economists cut
their inflation forecast for this year, strengthening wagers the
central bank will continue to reduce borrowing costs.  Yields on the contract due in January 2014 dropped nine
basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 9.18 percent today in
 Sao Paulo . The real gained 0.3 percent to 1.8179 per  U.S.
dollar , from 1.8228 on April 5.  Consumer prices will increase 5.06 percent this year, down
from a previous estimate of 5.27 percent, according to a weekly
central bank survey of about 100 economists published today.
Economists predict the central bank will cut its benchmark rate
to 9 percent this month, from the current 9.75 percent,
according to the survey.  “The inflation forecast fell a lot, the survey was very
good,”  Andre Perfeito , chief economist at Sao Paulo-based
Gradual Investimentos, said in a telephone interview.
“Inflation didn’t become the problem the market had imagined.”  Futures yields tumbled 26 basis points last week, the
biggest drop in a month, after data showed consumer prices as
measured by the IPCA index rose 0.21 percent in March, less than
the forecasts of all 50 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The annual inflation rate fell to 5.24 percent, its slowest
since 2010, after exceeding the upper limit of the target for
eight months last year. Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said the
“outstanding” result opens room for more measures to stimulate
the economy.  Brazil targets annual consumer price rises of 4.5 percent,
plus or minus two percentage points.  Rate Outlook  “Today’s Focus survey was a reflection of the March IPCA
number that surprised the market,” Mauro Schneider, an
economist with Banif Banco de Investimento SA, said by phone
from Sao Paulo. “With IPCA lower and the external environment
weighing on the market, it’s natural that rates will fall.”  Traders are anticipating central bank President Alexandre
Tombini will reduce the Selic rate by 75 basis points this month
to 9 percent, and to as low as 8.75 percent by May, according to
rate futures yields.  The real gained as investors bet  Brazil  will continue to
see net foreign currency inflows, said Alfredo Barbutti,  an
economist at Liquidez Dtvm Ltda. in Sao Paulo. Brazil had a net
foreign currency inflow of $5.74 billion in March, up from $5.71
billion in the previous month, according to data released by the
central bank April 4.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  