-- Brazil, U.S. Move to Boost Cachaca, Tennessee Whiskey Trade
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2012-04-09T15:32:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/brazil-u-s-move-to-boost-cachaca-tennessee-whiskey-trade-1-.html
The U.S. and  Brazil  plan to boost
trade in cachaca, the South American nation’s distilled sugar
cane liquor used to make caipirinha cocktails, and Tennessee
whiskey.  In letters of intent published today, signed by U.S. Trade
Representative  Ron Kirk  and Brazil’s Trade Minister Fernando Pimentel, the U.S. pledges to recognize cachaca as a distinctive
Brazilian product, and Brazil promises similar recognition for
bourbon and Tennessee whiskey.  The  accord  is one of at least eight agreements ranging from
aviation and education to the environment that will be signed on
the first day of Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff ’s two-day
visit to the U.S. She will meet with President Barack Obama
today and tomorrow with Brazilian students at  Harvard
University  and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in
Boston.  “Cachaca has a Brazilian face,” Robson Andrade, head of
the National Industry Confederation, told reporters after a
meeting of business leaders with Rousseff on Sunday night in
Washington. “This recognition of a genuinely Brazilian product
shows the value that the American government attaches today to
Brazil.”  ‘Very Positive’  In an e-mailed statement, Kirk said that “Cachaca and
Bourbon and Tennessee Whiskey are among the United States’ and
Brazil’s most unique and well-recognized products.  This
exchange of letters represents a very positive development for
both of our industries, and reflects our Governments’ commitment
to stronger bilateral trade ties.”  The U.S. Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau will
publish notice of the proposed change and solicit comment. If it
issues a regulation designating cachaca as a distinctive
Brazilian product, Brazil will then recognize the two U.S.
whiskeys.  In Brazil, 40,000 distillers make 4,000 different brands of
cachaca with total sales of 2 billion reais ($1.1 billion) a
year, according to the Brazilian Cachaca Institute’s  website .
The country, which is also the world’s largest sugar exporter,
sold $17.28 million worth of cachaca to 60 countries last year.
The main importers are  Germany , Portugal, the U.S. and France.  Brazilian exporters hope the agreement will boost sales of
its popular liquor, said Andrade. Since 2000 Brazil has had to
label cachaca as Brazilian rum, according to the Trade Ministry.  Brazil’s trade balance with the U.S. swung from a $6.4
billion surplus in 2007 to an $8.2 billion deficit last year as
the real rallied and economic growth in Brazil spurred demand
for imports.  The  U.S. Congress  allowed an  import tariff  on Brazilian
ethanol to expire last year and renewed the U.S. Generalized
System of Preferences that exempts many Brazilian goods from
duties.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  