-- Calpers Said to Sell $1.5 Billion Private-Equity Stakes
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2012-04-10T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/calpers-said-to-sell-1-5-billion-private-equity-stakes.html
The  California Public Employees’
Retirement System , the largest U.S. public pension, is seeking
to sell about $1.5 billion in private-equity fund stakes as it
restructures investments in alternative assets, said three
people with knowledge of the matter.  The sale process, which is scheduled to start this week,
will be managed by  UBS AG (UBS) , the people said, asking not to be
named because the information is private. The assets for sale
include a mix of mostly venture capital and buyout funds raised
since 2000, two of the people said.  Brad Pacheco , a spokesman for Calpers, declined to comment.  The $234.8 billion pension plan joins private-equity
investors including Government of Singapore Investment Corp.,
manager of more than $100 billion of the country’s reserves, and
 Barclays’ (BARC)  pension fund, that are selling stakes to rebalance
their portfolios. Investors are trying to free up cash for new
funds or reduce their number of managers and concentrate bets
with the best performing ones.  Calpers seeks to “rebalance and restructure” its
alternative investments this year and next “by adjusting
vintage year, geographic and general partner concentration,”
according to a February presentation.  The Calpers sale will be among the largest deals currently
on the secondary market, where investors trade stakes in
private-equity funds originally sold by buyout and venture
capital firms. The pension’s private-equity investments were
valued at $33.3 billion as of April 6.  AlpInvest Sale  This isn’t the first time Calpers has moved large
portfolios on the secondary market. The pension fund sold $2
billion of partnerships at the end of 2007, prior to the
financial crisis. Calpers last year shopped two other sizable
portfolios of private-equity fund stakes. One of these
portfolios was the sale of $800 million in buyout stakes to
Amsterdam-based AlpInvest Partners NV.  The $1.5 billion portfolio for sale includes entire stakes
in funds rather than partial positions, meaning the  pension plan 
is weeding out managers it has decided against investing with in
the future, according to the people. In contrast, last year
Calpers sold partial stakes in funds and kept relationships with
those managers albeit with smaller interests.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in New York at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  