-- Camargo Calls Cimpor Bid Fair, Discounts Chance of Rival Offer
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-04-09T13:45:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/camargo-calls-cimpor-bid-fair-discounts-chance-of-rival-offer.html
Camargo Correa SA said its 2.48
billion-euro ($3.24 billion) offer to buy Cimpor- Cimentos de
Portugal SGPS SA  is fair and it doesn’t regard a counter bid by
Brazilian competitor Votorantim Cimentos SA as likely.  Camargo Correa, whose 33 percent stake in the Portuguese
cement producer makes it the biggest investor, bid 5.50 euros a
share in cash last month to buy the remaining shares. Votorantim
is the second-biggest shareholder in Lisbon-based Cimpor, with a
21 percent stake, according to Cimpor’s  website .  “We consider our offer to be fair and to reflect the real
value of the company,” Jose Edison, president of Camargo’s
Intercement unit, which announced the bid for Cimpor on March
30, said in an e-mailed response to questions.  Asked about the possibility that Votorantim or another
Camargo Correa competitor could make a counterbid for Cimpor,
Edison said, “We see no reason to consider that scenario.”  “Over the past two years we had the opportunity to contact
all major shareholders and interpret their interests and plans
for the future,” he said in comments late last week.  Votorantim said in a statement on March 30 it would analyze
Camargo Correa’s offer and evaluate “all alternatives.” It did
not say what those alternatives were.  Portuguese state-bank  Caixa Geral de Depositos SA  said in a
separate statement that day it would sell its 9.6 percent stake
to Sao Paulo-based Camargo Correa if Caixa and Votorantim agreed
to end a shareholders’ accord, which gives each party the right
of first refusal to buy each other’s holding.  Possible Accord  While there is no deal over Cimpor between Votorantim and
Camargo Correa, which is Brazil’s second-largest builder, the
two Brazilian companies could reach an accord in the future,
Edison said.  “We don’t discard the possibility in the future of an
agreement that could allow for an improvement of the company’s
management as well as attend to the issues related to the
defense of competition rules in  Brazil ,” he said.  Pedro Queiroz Pereira, chairman of holding company  Semapa-
Sociedade de Investimento e Gestao  SGPS SA, which controls
cement maker Secil, made a proposal to Portuguese shareholders
in Cimpor as an alternative offer made by Camargo Correa, Jornal
de Negocios reported today, without saying how it got the
information.  Queiroz Pereira was not immediately available for comment.  If Camargo Correa’s bid is successful, the company plans to
bet on a “balanced portfolio” for Cimpor that involves making
inroads into mature markets and markets with a high potential
for growth, Edison said.  “Camargo Correa is open to other investment possibilities
in Portugal and in  Africa ,” he said.  Camargo Correa submitted the registration of its 2.48
billion-euro bid for Cimpor to  Portugal ’s CMVM securities
regulator on April 5, Edison said. Cimpor’s board has eight days
to respond to the bid after its registration was submitted,
according to an official at the CMVM.  Cimpor spokeswoman Mafalda Correia declined last week to
comment on Camargo’s offer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  