-- Cameron Calls on Japan to Lift Trade Blocks for EU Companies
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-04-10T08:53:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/cameron-calls-for-japan-to-lift-trade-barriers-for-eu-companies.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  began
a four-day tour of Asia by calling on Japan to end trade
restrictions on British companies to open the way for a free-
trade agreement with the European Union.  Cameron will press counterpart Yoshihiko Noda on trade
before they discuss security issues in  North Korea  and Iran and
violence in Syria today, according to his office in London.
Cameron, who is leading a delegation of 35 British business
leaders, also will visit  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) ’s Yokohama
headquarters.  “Last year I pushed hard to get backing of fellow EU
leaders for work to start scoping out the shape of such an EU-
Japan free-trade deal,” Cameron said. “I really hope we can
open formal negotiations later this year. But in order to win
the argument in the EU, Japan needs to demonstrate its readiness
and commitment to non-tariff barriers.”  Cameron has led similar delegations to India and  China  as
he seeks new markets for British companies and after leaving
Japan he’s scheduled to travel to Indonesia, Malaysia and
Myanmar. The effort is part of a plan to make exports an engine
for growth as the U.K. economy struggles to avoid a second
recession in three years.  Leaders from companies such as  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  BAE Systems
Plc (BA/) ,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc (RR/)  will
form part of the traveling group who will sign deals with
Japanese companies valued at 200 million pounds ($318 million).
Nissan said it will build a new hatchback car at its Sunderland,
England plant, adding 225 jobs.  “We want to attract more investment like this,” Cameron
said. Nissan in March said it will expand production in
Sunderland and add 2,000 jobs.  Defense Opportunities  Cameron defended the decision to include defense company
executives in the business delegation and said he would seek to
make the most of Japan’s decision last year to allow its
companies to take part in arms-development projects and procure
equipment from countries besides the U.S.  “There are a number of defense manufacturers with us,” he
told reporters on the flight to Tokyo. “But as these countries,
particularly Japan, that have tended in the past to buy only
American equipment are opening up, there are opportunities for
people like AgustaWestland, who make helicopters, who are on
this plane.”  Among other deals,  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  will sign an agreement
to develop a new generator for wind turbines in Edinburgh and
 Panasonic Corp. (6752)  will develop fuel-cell research in Cardiff,
Downing Street said ahead of the trip. Japanese investment in
the U.K. amounts to about 26 billion pounds, or a fifth of all
Japanese investment in Europe, according to Cameron’s office.  Trailing in Polls  The visit may also help shift Cameron’s political fortunes
after two weeks of negative headlines following Chancellor of
the Exchequer George Osborne’s annual budget that have seen the
Conservative Party trail the opposition in opinion polls.  A backlash following Osborne’s decision to tax pensioners
more, uproar over his decision to charge sales tax on some hot
take-away food and the mishandling of a threatened strike by
fuel-tanker drivers opened a five percentage-point Labour lead
over the Conservatives, a poll by Survation showed.  Thirty-five percent of voters said they would back Labour
in a general election, with 30 percent supporting the
Conservatives, according to the poll commissioned by the Mail on
Sunday newspaper. Survation interviewed 1,039 people online
between April 5-6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in  London  at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  