-- Canadian Dollar Advances From One-Month Low Against Yen
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-04-09T21:06:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/canada-dollar-drops-to-month-low-versus-yen-over-economy.html
Canada’s dollar strengthened from
its lowest level against the yen in a month amid speculation
that  North America ’s economies will sustain their recoveries.  The currency weakened to parity earlier against the  U.S.
dollar  after an April 6 report showed America’s employers added
fewer jobs last month than economists forecast, discouraging
demand for higher-yielding assets. Crude oil, Canada’s largest
export, fell today.  “Nonfarm payroll numbers on Friday, while unexpected and a
bit of a shock to the market in the short term, it was a knee-
jerk reaction,”  Thomas Molloy , chief dealer at FX Solutions
LLC, an online currency-trading company in Saddle River, New
Jersey, said in a telephone interview. “Cooler heads over the
weekend have prevailed, and the press has very much been of the
order that this is only one number and one number doesn’t really
make a trend.”  Canada ’s currency, nicknamed the loonie, fell 0.2 percent
to 81.69 yen at 5:02 p.m. in Toronto after weakening to 81.25
yen, the lowest level since March 8. The Canadian dollar slid as
much as 0.3 percent to C$1.0002 per U.S. dollar, its first
breach of parity since March 29, before trading at 99.72 cents.  Yields on Canadian 10-year  government bonds  dropped five
basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 2.07 percent after
touching 2.02 percent, the lowest level in almost a month. U.S.
Treasury 10-year yields tumbled 13 basis points on April 6 in
the wake of the jobs report. Canadian bond markets were closed
that day for a holiday.  ‘Tail End’  “We’re still dealing with the tail end of the
disappointing nonfarm payrolls report,” said  Sebastien Galy , a
senior currency strategist at Societe Generale SA in New York,
by e-mail.  Canada will auction C$3.3 billion ($3.3 billion) of two-
year bonds on April 11. The securities will have a coupon of
2.25 percent and mature Aug. 1, 2014.  The nation’s federal government bonds have lost 0.9 percent
this year, while U.S. Treasuries have declined 1.09 percent,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  Investors have eliminated bets that Bank of Canada Governor
 Mark Carney  will cut borrowing costs following a report that
showed the fourth-largest gain in employment in records dating
from 1976.  Carney Watch  Odds that Carney will reduce the Bank of Canada’s target
rate sometime this year fell to zero on April 5, according to
Bloomberg calculations based on overnight index swaps, after
 Statistics Canada  reported an increase of 82,300 jobs in March,
about eight times economists’ forecasts. Investors were pricing
in a 35 percent chance of a cut by September a month ago.  Canada’s currency traded as low as C$1.0319 in early
January before rallying to 98.42 cents per U.S. dollar last
month as the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained. Optimism over
accelerating global growth bolstered demand for Canada’s raw
materials, which account for about half of export revenue.  The 120,000 increase in U.S. payrolls reported by the Labor
Department in  Washington  last week was the smallest in five
months and less than the most pessimistic estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists.  The loonie rose 3.2 percent during the past six months in
the third-best performance among the 10 major currencies tracked
by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. Norway’s krone gained
the most at 5.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Cox  at 
 pcox16@bloomberg.net  