-- McDonald’s Pursuit of Perfect Fries Risks Overpromising
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-04-09T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/mcdonald-s-pursuit-of-perfect-fries-risks-overpromising.html
 Biting into a  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) 
french fry should be like “walking on freshly fallen snow.”  Barbara Booth, the company’s director of sensory science,
was presiding over the fast-food giant’s semi-annual French Fry
Evaluation -- a contest among McCain Foods Ltd.,  ConAgra Foods
Inc. (CAG) ’s Lamb Weston and J.R. Simplot Co. to cook perfect versions
of McDonald’s “World Famous Fries.”  “Close your eyes,” Booth told the three executives and 11
supplier representatives as they sniffed, sampled and spit fries
in a ritual akin to tasting a Napa Valley Pinot. “If you can’t
tell what you’re eating in three seconds, there’s a problem.”  As chains such as Five Guys Burgers and Fries and
Smashburger attract diners looking for a better burger,
McDonald’s is more than ever focused on the quality of its food.
And in an age of 24-7 social media and hyper-informed consumers,
the world’s largest burger chain is being forced to open up
about the provenance of its beef, potatoes and more.  In January, McDonald’s began featuring online homages to
its suppliers. In one “Supplier Story” video, Frank Martinez,
who farms about 1,000 acres of potatoes (400 hectares) in
Warden,  Washington , brushes the dirt from a spud, slices it and
declares: “Good potato!”  While sales growth at McDonald’s stores open at least 13
months has exceeded 3 percent for two years, the company is
“mindful American consumers are wanting more education than
ever before,” said  Mark Kalinowski , an analyst at Janney
Montgomery Scott in  New York . “They want to make sure that they
are not losing business to competitors that do a better job at
communicating this type of message.”  Conversation Change  Providing more information about the McDonald’s menu is
also a way to change the conversation, according to  Michael Jacobson ,  executive director  at the Center for Science in the
Public Interest, a Washington-based advocacy group. Locally
sourced potatoes don’t change the fact that a large order of
McDonald’s fries delivers 25 grams of fat.  McDonald’s tries “to come across as warm and fuzzy,”
Jacobson said. “They don’t show the frying of the potatoes”
which “end up far higher in calories than they start out at.”  Last year, McDonald’s store owners received an e-mailed
call to arms from the chain’s U.S. President Jan Fields. The
industry has been “negatively impacted” by “food and product
safety concerns,” Fields wrote. “Our ultimate success will
require a fundamental shift in how we approach Brand Trust and
how we incorporate these efforts in to everything we do.”  More Questions  Americans “have more questions about where their food
comes from -- whether they’re purchasing it from McDonald’s or
whether they’re purchasing it from a grocery store,” said
Heather Oldani, a McDonald’s spokeswoman. “We’ve just started
to scratch the surface with the ‘Meet Our Suppliers’ campaign.”  McDonald’s is making other efforts to come clean about its
food. Earlier this year, the Big Mac seller said it will require
its pork suppliers to phase out the gestation pens that animal-
rights groups have long deemed cruel to pigs. The move follows
that of  Chipotle Mexican Grill Inc. (CMG) , which more than a decade
ago began requiring its suppliers to raise pigs outside or in
large cages and use antibiotic-free and vegetarian food.  Five Guys and Chipotle locally source their food. Some Five
Guys locations post signs identifying the specific farm where
their potatoes come from and the burrito seller tries to source
veggies from nearby farms, defined as being within 350 miles of
a restaurant, when practical.  Food Origin  While McDonald’s took to Twitter about two years ago to get
feedback on its menu and stores, it’s now focusing the online
conversations on suppliers and food origin, said Rick Wion, the
social media chief, whose nine workers regularly send Twitter
followers to YouTube videos about growers.  “We’re continually looking at ways we can promote our
suppliers and talk about what goes into our supply chain,” he
said. “We get questions about it all the time.”  McDonald’s would be best to proceed with caution in telling
its food and supply-chain story, said Dick Adams, a San Diego-
based restaurant franchisee consultant and former McDonald’s
store owner.  “There’s no way that they can keep up with the smaller
chains in terms of sourcing locally,” said Adams, who says
there’s nothing wrong with McDonald’s food. “They have to be
careful they don’t overpromise.”  The emphasis on fries is no accident. McDonald’s serves
about 9 million pounds of them worldwide each day. And its
competitors aren’t standing still, according to Darren Tristano,
executive vice president at the Chicago-based researcher
Technomic Inc.  Fry Prepping  McDonald’s suppliers spend weeks prepping for the fry
evaluations, according to Ken Haynes, director of global quality
at Lamb Weston: “It’s a big deal.”  The sampling began at 9 a.m. with the 15 tasters crowded
around a large, rectangle table. Bottled water and unsalted
crackers were on hand as palate cleansers.  Cooks in white lab coats served the first sample, the so-
called “gold standard.” The tasters waited two-and-a-half
minutes and then got started. Three fries were eaten on the
first bite to discern unwanted buttery, sour or reheated potato
flavors. The tasters scribbled notes on a score sheet -- rating
the fries on appearance, texture/mouth feel and flavor/aroma.  Booth pointed out black spots, dehydrated ends and oily and
limp fries, all of which hurt a sample’s score.  Eighty minutes later, a winner was declared: Lamb Weston,
which for the second time in a row had triumphed with a sample
from its American Falls, Idaho, plant. The final score was 95
out 100 points -- showing there was still room for improvement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  