-- CEOs Praising Diversity Stay Silent on No-Women Augusta
-- B y   J o h n   H e l y a r   a n d   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-04-09T04:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/ceos-praising-diversity-stay-silent-on-no-women-augusta.html
Corporate executives connected with
 Augusta National Golf Club  ducked the issue of its all-male
membership throughout the four-day  Masters Tournament  that
concluded yesterday.  Their silence persisted even after President Barack Obama’s
spokesman and  Mitt Romney , the potential Republican Party
challenger, said April 5 that the near 80-year-old club should
admit female members. In addition, social media sites including
Twitter.com have been filled with comments calling for an end to
gender discrimination at the club.  The issue came to the fore because one of the tournament’s
three sponsors,  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) , is now
headed by Virginia “Ginni” Rometty, the company’s first female
chief executive officer. IBM’s CEO traditionally dons the club’s
signature green member blazer at the tournament, as do the CEOs
of co-sponsors  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and AT&T Inc.  The decision by these companies to associate with an
organization that excludes women may hurt them with customers
and other stakeholders, Rakesh Khurana, a Harvard Business
School professor who has written about governance issues, said
in a telephone interview.  “Notions of equality and inclusion determine a company’s
capacity to attract the best employees and keep customers,”
Khurana said. “And in an age when communication happens
instantaneously on the Internet, just saying you have ‘no
comment’ isn’t a viable response. In fact, doing that for a
protracted time often causes more problems.”  No Comments  Edward Barbini , a spokesman for Armonk, N.Y.-based IBM,
said “IBM has no comment” when asked about the company’s
Masters sponsorship and whether the statements by Obama
spokesman  Jay Carney  and Romney had changed its position.  Mark Siegel , spokesman for Dallas-based AT&T, said “we are not
commenting on this.”  Alan Jeffers , a spokesman for Irving,
Texas-based Exxon Mobil, said “that question should be directed
to Augusta. We don’t have any comment.”  Steve Ethun, a spokesman for the Masters Tournament, also
declined to comment and wouldn’t say which executives attended
the event in Augusta,  Georgia .  Traditionally the top executives of corporate sponsors,
including CEOs Rex Tillerson of Exxon Mobil and Randall L. Stephenson of  AT&T (T) , entertain customers at hospitality cabins
near the 10th hole. IBM also has a nearby cabin where its CEO
usually greets clients. Non-members, who don’t wear green
jackets, must be accompanied by a member to visit the course or
play a round.  Palmisano on Committee  IBM spokesman Barbini declined to discuss whether Rometty,
54, or Chairman and former CEO  Sam Palmisano , 60, attended the
event. Rometty eventually was photographed by the  Associated
Press  in the gallery yesterday at the 18th hole -- without a
green jacket. Palmisano, who serves on the Masters Tournament’s
Digital Technology Committee, was listed on the committees’
assignment list for this year’s Masters.  “We don’t comment on the travel plans or schedules of our
senior executives as a matter of policy,” Barbini said.  Inside IBM’s cabin at Augusta National, in a secluded area
among towering loblolly pine trees on the left side of the 10th
hole, Rick Singer, IBM’s director of sports marketing, declined
to comment about the sponsorship.  “We’re not going to talk about anything,” Singer said
yesterday. He and other IBM officials at the tournament over the
weekend repeatedly told reporters to stay away from the cabin.  Rometty, who took charge as IBM’s CEO in January, plays
golf occasionally, according to the company.  Palmisano, during his tenure as CEO, saw diversity as
central to IBM’s performance and growth, Harvard University
professor  David Thomas  wrote in a September 2004 Harvard
Business Review article. IBM’s website says the company “has
consistently taken the lead on diversity policies long before it
was required by law.”  ‘Backwards Policies’  A petition on the website change.org calling for Augusta
National to make Rometty a member, had gathered more than 7,200
signatures as of midday yesterday.   The petition  -- headlined “Augusta: Give Ginni Rometty
the Green Members’ Jacket!” -- was started by Lynne Manley, a
high school English teacher in Milton, Vermont. She wrote on the
site, “when my daughter grows up, I want her to live in a world
where her hard work is rewarded with a place at the table -- not
backwards policies that date back to the 1930s.”  Companies’ reputations may be affected by online protests
even though executives didn’t face demonstrators at Augusta
National’s gates, said  Jim Andrews , a senior vice president of
sports sponsorship adviser and researcher IEG LLC. That was the
case in 2003 when Martha Burk, who ran the National Council of
Women’s Organizations at the time, led others in calling for an
end to the all-male members’ policy.  “All you need is a few people who start running with the
issue in the social media,” said Andrews, who is in  Chicago .  Racial Integration Succeeded  IBM and other companies in the past pressured private golf
clubs to end racial discrimination. In 1990, IBM joined other
corporate sponsors including Toyota Motor Corp. and Honda Motor
Co. in pulling TV ads from the  PGA Championship  when that year’s
tournament was played at the then whites-only Shoal Creek,
outside of Birmingham,  Alabama .  Augusta National subsequently ended its racial barrier.
The club in 1990 extended an invitation to its first black
member, Gannett Co. television President Ron Townsend.  Augusta National doesn’t publicize its membership. A 2010
partial list obtained by Bloomberg News and 2004 documents
published by the Augusta Chronicle and USA Today suggest the
club doesn’t always extend invitations just as new CEOs take
over, raising the possibility Rometty may be admitted later.  That may help explain IBM and other companies’ reluctance
to protest the all-male membership, said Hayes Roth, chief
marketing officer for Landor Associates, a global branding and
design firm.  Glass Ceilings  “If any of them had aspirations to have their executives
join Augusta National, it’s possible that they don’t really want
to raise the issue,” Roth said. “The glass ceiling seems to
have been broken inside companies like IBM and Xerox and all the
others that have female CEOS.  I’m guessing they probably figure
‘We’ve done our bit.”’  Even executives who have spoken out against Augusta
National’s lack of female members in the past have been reticent
this year. In 2002,  Kenneth Chenault , the chairman and CEO of
 American Express Co. (AXP)  who is both a member of IBM’s board and
Augusta National, said in a statement that women should be
allowed to become members and “I have made my views known with
the club because I believe that is the most effective and
appropriate way to bring about a change in membership policy.”  Last week, in response to a request for an interview on
the current situation, Marina Norville, an American Express
spokeswoman, said by e-mail, “Unfortunately Ken will not be
available for comment, sorry about that.”  Nationwide Debate  Bloomberg News first reported the conflict between Augusta’s
male-only membership and IBM’s new CEO on March 28, setting off
a nationwide debate on whether she should be admitted.  Augusta National Chairman  Billy Payne , who is in charge of
the club and tournament, reiterated the club’s rules at an April
4 press conference.  “All issues of membership remain the private deliberations
of the membership,” Payne said.  “We don’t talk about our
private deliberations.”  If Augusta National does decide to extend an invitation to
Rometty and other women soon, “I think they’re going to make it
look like they did this all on their own, in their own sweet
time,” said Roth, of Landor Associates.  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  