-- Chavez Exit Won’t Mean Venezuela’s Problems Out the Door
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-04-09T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/chavez-exit-won-t-mean-venezuela-s-problems-out-the-door.html
This week’s Summit of the Americas,
which opens on Saturday in Cartagena, Colombia, may well be
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez ’s last. Right now, though,
there’s no guarantee that whoever, or whatever, succeeds Chavez
will necessarily bring a change for the better.  Chavez, who faces elections in October, has just left
 Venezuela  for another round of radiation therapy in Cuba to
treat a mystery cancer first disclosed last June. It’s uncertain
if he will be healthy enough to campaign, or how long he will
live if he is re-elected.  His political opposition has united around Henrique Capriles Radonski, the  39-year-old  governor of Miranda state who
won a resounding primary victory in February. Capriles has
pledged to continue many of Chavez’s pro-poor programs, while
abandoning the economic policies and expropriations that have
hurt economic growth. He also promises to rethink the unsavory
associations with Cuba,  Syria  and Iran that have turned
Venezuela into a benefactor of political oppression and
terrorism. We see much to admire in Capriles’s progressive,
market-friendly and less demagogic approach.  But even if Capriles were to defy the odds and beat the
still-popular Chavez, his inauguration is not a given. Chavez’s
brother Adan, the governor of the Chavezes’ home state of
Barinas, has spoken darkly of the need for “armed struggle” to
keep the current government in power. Defense Minister Henry Rangel Silva has said the military would not recognize an
opposition victory in 2012. Key members of Chavez’s
administration have much to lose, including Rangel and others
whom the U.S. Treasury Department has  sanctioned  for supporting
the Revolutionary Armed Forces of  Colombia , designated as a
narco-terrorist organization. So do countries such as Cuba
(which  gets  two-thirds of its oil and roughly $5 billion a year
for providing Chavez with everything from sports trainers to
security personnel), Syria (which has received fuel shipments),
and  China  (the beneficiary of a growing range of commercial
agreements).  Sharp divisions exist not just between Chavez supporters
and the opposition, but within Chavez’s own camp, with would-be
successors already elbowing for position. High inflation,
rampant crime and shortages of basic foodstuffs and goods have
fed unrest -- in fact, Venezuela tops Bloomberg’s most recent
listing of countries by their “misery rate.” Throw in the civil
 militias  created and armed by Chavez, with numbers in the tens
of thousands, and you have the makings of a potential bloodbath
if the election doesn’t go smoothly.  Venezuela’s electoral council has said it would invite
monitors to supervise October’s voting, and we hope the
 Organization of American States  and other outside groups will be
included. But an election is just a moment. Chavez’s genius has
been to deploy the power of the state to intimidate on a day-to-
day basis -- as in his use of state media to constantly demean
his opponent, and his recent threats to seize banks and
companies that finance “the opposition’s destabilizing plans.”  The challenge is to shine a constant light on such
oppression. Chavez has neutered U.S. influence by invoking Uncle
Sam’s past interventionist sins -- a task made easier by the
tardy and ambiguous protest by  George W. Bush ’s administration
of the 2002 coup that briefly ousted the democratically elected
Chavez from power. But the U.S. can still do more to be an
advocate for transparency and democracy. Short of meddling
directly in Venezuelan affairs, it could, for example, through
the media and U.S. allies disseminate more widely information
that it has gathered on government corruption, Chavez’s support
for  Iran  and Syria, and sweetheart oil deals for Russia and
 China . It could nominate a candidate for U.S. ambassador and put
the burden of refusal on Venezuela. And, in contrast to some
ill-considered legislation that threatens to  strip  the
Organization of American States of its U.S. funding, it could
offer robust support to the OAS and regional initiatives that
advance shared values.  But the burden of nudging Venezuela onto a better path will
rightly fall to its neighbors. This week’s summit will be gassed
up with talk of the war on drugs and Cuba’s absence from the
table (Chavez has pledged that this will be the last summit to
which Cuba is not invited). We suggest another topic for the
agenda, one apropos for a gathering hosted by a country once
wracked by civil war and insurgency (and whose recovery would
have been impossible without U.S. assistance): how and when
 Latin America  should respond when one of its nations goes off
the rails.  New organizations such as the Union of South American
Nations and the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States
seek to displace the Organization of American States, whose
leadership is in need of refurbishment. And  Brazil , an emerging
power whose president,  Dilma Rousseff , was just in  Washington 
for talks with President  Barack Obama , rightfully seeks to play
a greater hemispheric and global role. Protracted violent
turmoil in Venezuela -- a country with billions of dollars in
resources and many ruthless “friends” -- could be the first test
case for these budding forces. Let’s hope they’re ready.  Read more online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The View editors on why the U.S. should
modernize  food-safety rules .  Jeffrey Goldberg  on the  Holocaust
hypocrisies  of Guenter Grass. Ramesh Ponnuru on why Barack Obama
won’t offer a serious  budget proposal . Gary Shilling on why
 consumer spending  is strong and Josh Barro on why pensions in
 Illinois  are in such dismal shape.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 