-- Cheapest Stocks in 6 Years Lure Funds: China Overnight
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-04-10T08:32:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/cheapest-equities-in-six-years-lure-schroders-china-overnight.html
The lowest Chinese stock valuations
since 2005 are a buy signal to the biggest emerging-market money
managers, who say the economy will avoid a hard landing as the
government bolsters growth.  The MSCI  China  Index of shares available to foreign
investors fell the most among global equity indexes last month,
dragging it to nine times estimated profit, a 23 percent
discount to the  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD) , data compiled by
Bloomberg and MSCI Inc. show. The last time the gap was this
big, in December 2005, the China index  beat  the global gauge by
about 60 percentage points in 12 months.  Chinese shares will rally after the strongest manufacturing
 reading  in 12 months on April 1 showed that the economy is
weathering a slowdown in exports, according to Allianz Global
Investors. The government may boost spending and loosen monetary
policy to keep growth above its 7.5 percent target, said
Schroders Plc, which oversees about $291 billion.  Hong Kong  markets opened today after being shut for
holidays since April 5. The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of
the most-traded Chinese stocks in  New York  lost 1.1 percent
since then, while the  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of mainland
Chinese stocks sank 0.7 percent through yesterday.  “We’re reaching levels in Chinese equities which are
clearly becoming quite attractive,” Bart Turtelboom, the
London-based co-head of  emerging markets  at GLG Partners, which
oversees about $26 billion, said in a March 28 interview. “We
have been increasing our positions.”  Trade Data  The Bloomberg China-US gauge,  comprised  of 55 U.S.-listed
companies operating in the world’s second-biggest economy, lost
1.1 percent to 101.96 yesterday in New York, while the Shanghai
Composite lost 0.9 percent. The declines followed data showing
Chinese inflation quickened last month to 3.6 percent, more than
the median economist forecast for 3.4 percent, which damped
speculation the central bank will ease monetary policy.  The  MSCI China Index (MXCN) , comprised almost entirely of Chinese
companies listed in Hong Kong, slumped 1.2 percent as trade data
today fueled concerns over  China’s economy . Imports increased
5.3 percent, the customs bureau said, below the 9 percent median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  The MSCI China  tumbled  6.8 percent last month, the most
among 70 national equity gauges tracked by MSCI and Bloomberg,
as the government cut its growth target from the 8 percent goal
in place since 2005 and reported exports that trailed estimates.
The announcements revived concern among some investors that an
economic slowdown will curb  profits .  ‘Hard Landing’  “A lot of investors I talk to, especially in the U.S. and
 Europe , they are very concerned about a China hard landing,”
Raymond Chan, chief investment officer for the Asia Pacific
region at RCM, a unit of Allianz Global that oversees about $138
billion, said in an April 2 interview on Bloomberg Television.
“We believe China has a lot of policy tools they can use to
avoid a hard landing.”  The Shanghai Composite climbed 0.9 percent today as
speculation grew the government will take steps to bolster
growth. Premier Wen Jiabao, who is trying to reduce China’s
reliance on exports and shift to a more sustainable growth model
based on domestic consumption, said on April 3 that the
government plans to announce “fine-tuning” measures to bolster
the economy soon, according to China National Radio.  Policy makers will cut banks’  reserve requirements  at least
three more times in 2012 following a 0.5 percentage-point
reduction to 20.5 percent in February, Geoffrey Dennis,
Citigroup Inc.’s global emerging-market strategist in New York,
wrote in an April 3 report. China is “almost guaranteed” to
cut benchmark interest rates or reserve ratios this month,
Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-based strategist at Credit
Agricole SA, said in Bloomberg TV interview on April 4.  Government Spending  China’s economy will probably grow 8.4 percent this year as
the government increases spending by as much as 1.5 percent of
gross domestic product, Citigroup’s Dennis wrote. He recommends
owning more Chinese shares than are represented in benchmark
indexes.  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL)  led solar-panel makers lower in U.S.
trading, tumbling 7.3 percent to $6.11, the lowest level since
Oct. 7.  LDK Solar Co. (LDK)  sank 2.4 percent to a more than four-month
low of $3.30 after Chinese newspapers said the company is
planning to fire and reassign workers.  Yingli Green Energy
Holding Co. (YGE)  dropped 5.5 percent to $3.25, the weakest level
since Oct. 3.  LDK, based in Xinyu of China’s Jiangxi province, is making
personnel changes involving several teams in its wafer
department, the National Business Daily said in a report dated
April 10 on its website, citing LDK’s public relations division.
The adjustments are “intended to control costs and increase
efficiency,” the Shanghai-based newspaper reported, citing e-
mails on April 9 from LDK’s spokesman Li Longji.  ‘Fundamental Problems’  “The broader fundamental problems for the industry are
still very much there, about 40 gigawatts of solar wafer
capacity versus 25 gigawatts of demand,” said Aaron Chew, a New
York-based solar analyst at Maxim Group LLC, referring to global
solar energy supply and demand. Chew gives Trina a sell rating.
“Most of these manufacturers will be suffering from a similar
type of environment for another three quarters.”  China’s Purchasing Managers’ Index rose to a one-year high
of 53.1 in March, the country’s logistics federation and the
National Bureau of Statistics said on April 1. While a separate
PMI reading of 48.3 announced the same day by HSBC Holdings Plc
and Markit Economics showed a contraction in manufacturing, the
figures signaled that economic growth is “slow, but remains
resilient,”  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  economists wrote in an April
2 report.  Political Stability  The government has room to stimulate the economy after
China’s inflation rate fell to a 20-month low of 3.2 percent in
February, according to Allan Conway, who oversees about $24
billion as the head of emerging market equities at Schroders in
 London . While data yesterday showed inflation rebounded to 3.6
percent in March, that’s still 2.9 percentage points lower than
a  three-year high  of 6.5 percent reached in July 2011.  The ruling Communist Party’s desire for political stability
during its once-in-a-decade leadership transition later this
year also increases the odds that policy makers will take steps
to boost growth, Conway said. Wen and President Hu Jintao will
step down from their roles to make way for a younger generation,
probably including Vice Premier Li Keqiang and Vice President  Xi Jinping .  “China looks extremely attractive,” Conway, who holds
more shares in the country than are represented in benchmark
indexes, said in a March 29 phone interview. “The supreme
concern in China is political stability. It’s very well
understood that the best way of achieving that political
stability is ongoing economic prosperity.”  Analyst Estimates  Conway’s  Schroder International Selection Fund - Global
Emerging Market Opportunities (SCGMOAA)  has topped 85 percent of peers in
the past five years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Chinese companies have failed to meet analysts’ earnings
 projections  for the past two quarters as the economy slowed.
Quarterly net income reported by MSCI China companies since Jan.
9 trailed forecasts by 9.6 percent, following an average
shortfall of 3.9 percent in the previous three months, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. , the nation’s third-biggest
lender by market value, posted its first drop in quarterly
earnings since listing two years ago on March 22. The Beijing-
based company’s 21.2 billion yuan ($3.4 billion) profit in the
fourth quarter was 14 percent lower than a year earlier and
trailed the average analyst estimate by 26 percent, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Disappointing Earnings  “We’ve reduced our net exposure in China,” Emmanuel Hauptmann, a senior equities fund manager at Geneva-based Reyl
Asset Management, which manages about $1.8 billion, said in a
March 30 phone interview. “We note a weakness within Chinese
companies and a marked flattening of growth.”  Stock valuations have already discounted the potential for
disappointing profits in China, Winson Fong, who helps oversee
about $21 billion as a money manager at Lion Global Investors in
 Singapore , wrote in an April 3 e-mail. Beijing-based  China
Construction Bank Corp. (939)  and  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , China’s largest offshore
energy producer, accounted for about 9.5 percent of the firm’s
 LionGlobal China Growth Fund , according to a March fact sheet.  The MSCI China index’s 23 percent discount to the MSCI All-
Country gauge is more than three times bigger than the average
gap of 7 percent since 2003, according to data compiled by MSCI
and Bloomberg. The China measure’s estimated price-earnings
ratio of nine compares with a historical mean multiple of 12.5,
the data show. The  MSCI BRIC Index (MXBRIC)  of stocks of  Brazil ,  Russia ,
 India  and China traded for 8.7 times projected profits at the
end of March.  Lower Valuations  Dongfeng Motor Group Co. (489) , the Chinese partner of Nissan
Motor Co. and Honda Motor Co., is a holding in Citigroup’s
“model portfolio” for global emerging markets, Dennis wrote in
his April 3 report. Wuhan, China-based Dongfeng is valued at 8.4
times analysts’ estimates for 2012 profit, a 24 percent discount
to the median multiple for global peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The stock, which fell 7.9 percent in Hong
Kong trading last month, is up 5.1 percent this year.  Anhui Conch Cement Co. (914) , another Citigroup recommendation,
trades for 10.6 times estimated profits, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Shares of the Anhui, China-based cement maker
are up 13 percent this year, following an 8.9 percent drop last
month.  “At this level, the market is already pricing in the
expectation of a challenging environment,” said Lion Global’s
Fong. “There are a number of attractive investment
opportunities beginning to emerge.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Patterson in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  