-- Chesapeake Energy Sells $2.6 Billion Worth of Assets
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2012-04-09T21:51:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/chesapeake-energy-sells-2-6-billion-worth-of-assets.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) , the second-
largest U.S. natural-gas producer, announced $2.6 billion in
asset sales that will cut debt and fund drilling after slumping
gas prices eroded cash flow.  The company sold shares in a new subsidiary to an
investment group led by a Blackstone Group LP-led affiliate that
includes TPG Capital and EIG Global Energy Partners LLC,
Oklahoma City-based Chesapeake said in a statement today. The
agreement gives the buyers a share of royalties from oil wells
in the Cleveland and Tonkawa plays in Oklahoma and a 6 percent
annual distribution.  Chesapeake also agreed to sell  Morgan Stanley (MS)  10 years of
future gas output from the Anadarko Basin Granite Wash for about
$745 million. The price equates to about $4.68 per thousand
cubic feet of gas, the company said, or more than twice the
current market price for the fuel.  In a third transaction, Chesapeake will sell Exxon Mobil
Corp. 58,400 net acres of leases in  Oklahoma ’s Texoma Woodford
play for about $590 million in cash before certain costs and
adjustments. The deal is expected to close on April 30,
Chesapeake said.  “Aggressive land grabs in the past are now leading to
profitable harvesting, through sales, investor participation
agreements and production,” Philip C. Adams, a debt analyst at
Gimme Credit LLC in  Chicago , said in a note to clients today.  Cash-Flow Hole  Chesapeake rose 1.5 percent to $21.80 at 4:18 p.m. in New
York. Before today, the shares lost 35 percent in the past year
as a glut of North American gas collapsed prices and drained
profits from gas explorers.  Exxon has been expanding its search for untapped prospects
in the Woodford formation this year after completing 31 wells in
the area in 2011. The Irving, Texas-based company had nine rigs
drilling in the Woodford as of last month, according to a
company presentation in  New York  on March 8.  Chesapeake Chief Executive Officer  Aubrey McClendon  plans
to sell $17.5 billion in assets by the end of 2013 to plug a
cash-flow gap aggravated by excess supply that drove prices for
the fuel to a 10-year low. Chesapeake also is shifting its focus
from gas to crude oil, which commands higher prices.  McClendon visited potential investors from  South Korea ,
India,  Japan ,  China  and Singapore in February to tout the
company’s access to gas that is 85 percent cheaper than
competing supplies from the Middle East. In a March 6 interview
in Oklahoma City, McClendon said potential investors weren’t
concerned about Chesapeake’s $10.3 billion in net debt, more
than twice  Exxon Mobil (XOM) ’s burden.  McClendon told a New Orleans energy conference on March 26
that he expects gas prices to begin rebounding by the end of
this year.  Exxon is the largest U.S. gas producer, according to the
Natural Gas Supply Association, a Washington-based industry
group whose members produce about one-third of the nation’s gas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Carroll in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  