-- Chile Peso Drops as Copper Price Declines, Global Stocks Weaken
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-04-09T18:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/chile-peso-drops-as-copper-price-declines-global-stocks-weaken.html
Chile’s peso dropped as the price of
copper fell, stocks fell worldwide and offshore investors
increased bets against the currency to a two-year high.  The peso weakened 0.2 percent to 485.01 per  U.S. dollar 
today in Santiago. Offshore investors in the Chilean peso
forwards market increased their bets against the currency to $7
billion on April 4, the central bank said today.  Copper for May delivery slid as much as 2.4 percent in New
York after faster inflation in  China , the biggest buyer of the
South American nation’s main export, signaled policy makers may
refrain from stimulus. Global stocks fell after an April 6
report showed  job creation  in the U.S. was less than forecast.  “The concern now is global growth,” said Cristian Donoso,
a currency trader at Banchile Corredores de Bolsa SA in
Santiago. “Inflation rose a bit in China which gives less room
for authorities to cut bank reserve requirements. Copper’s down,
 New York  stocks are down and the euro is down. That means the
greenback is strengthening.”  Chile’s $3.6 billion in copper exports accounted for almost
half the country’s $7.3 billion worth of total exports in March,
according to  data published  today by the central bank.  Local investors increased their long position in pesos in
the forwards market to the highest since June on March 30.  Chilean  interest-rate swaps  fell for a third day. The two-
year swap rate fell six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point,
to 5.44 percent. The two-year break-even inflation rate fell to
3.29 percent, the lowest since March 1.  The Chilean swaps market was closed on April 6.  “There’s a strong decline in nominal rates and break evens
are normalizing,” said Rodrigo Blazquez, a trader at Deutsche
Bank AG in Santiago. “U.S. Treasury yields fell hard on Friday
and  Chile ’s correlated swaps are catching up.”  The yield on 10-year U.S. Treasury bonds fell 13 basis
points on April 6 and a further two basis points today after
U.S. non-farm payrolls expanded by 120,000 jobs rather than the
205,000 median estimate among analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  