-- China Brokers Plan Outward Investor Rules, Securities Times Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-09T08:23:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/china-brokers-plan-outward-investor-rules-securities-times-says.html
The  Securities Association of China 
asked regulators to let some domestic investors trade foreign
stocks and bonds directly, the  Securities Times  reported today,
without saying where it got the information.  Under the new plan, securities companies with a Qualified
Domestic Institutional Investor, or QDII, license would be
allowed to broker direct transactions by qualified Chinese
investors in overseas  capital markets  using investment quotas
granted under the QDII program, the Chinese-language newspaper
reported.  Policy restrictions have impeded private financial
investments abroad and curbed the nation’s influence in global
financial markets, the State Administration of Foreign Exchange
said last month. More than 40 brokerages and fund management
companies had been granted QDII licenses as of Oct. 31 after the
program was introduced in 2007 to allow money pooled from local
citizens to trade in foreign securities, the China Securities
Regulatory Commission said in a Dec. 1 statement on its website.  The proposal by the association of more than 100 securities
brokerages can better use the existing QDII quotas, help
companies expand overseas business and meet growing needs of
Chinese investors, the report quoted an unnamed brokerage
executive as saying.  China ’s new overseas stock investments dropped 49 percent
last year to $10.1 billion as volatility in U.S. and European
markets made Chinese investors more risk averse, SAFE said in a
March 31  report  on its website.  Phone calls to the association’s Beijing-based general
office, which handles media inquiries, went unanswered.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7576 or
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  