-- China Swap Rate Climbs to Two-Week High on Inflation; Yuan Drops
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-04-09T09:06:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/china-swap-rate-rises-to-two-week-high-yuan-gains-on-inflation.html
China ’s interest-rate swaps climbed
to a two-week high as data showed inflation accelerated more
than forecast. The yuan declined.  The  consumer price index  rose 3.6 percent in March from a
year earlier after increasing 3.2 percent in February, the
National Bureau of Statistics said on its website today. The
median estimate of 33 economists in a Bloomberg survey was for
an increase of 3.4 percent.  “The CPI number is very high and disappointing,” said  Ju Wang , a fixed-income strategist at  Barclays Capital  in
 Singapore . “It’s bad for sentiment as it may delay a reserve-
requirement cut.”  The one-year swap rate, the fixed cost to receive the
seven-day repurchase rate, climbed four basis points to 3.18
percent in  Shanghai . The yuan fell 0.03 percent to 6.3085 per
dollar, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.  The People’s Bank of China didn’t gauge demand for bill
sales this week, signaling it won’t drain cash from the
financial system, according to a trader at a primary dealer
required to bid at the auctions. The central bank gauged demand
for 28- and 91-day repurchase agreements, the trader said.  The monetary authority cut lenders’ reserve requirements
for the second time in three months in February to pump cash
into the banking system after the economy expanded the least
since mid-2009 in the fourth quarter.  China’s faster-than-estimated inflation for March may limit
room for policy loosening, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in an
e-mailed note today.  Currency Forwards  The  seven-day repurchase rate , a gauge of funding
availability in the financial system, fell 48 basis points, or
0.48 percentage point, to 3.75 percent after jumping to the
highest level in almost six weeks on April 6.  Policy makers will seek to “prevent a rebound” in
consumer prices and manage inflationary expectations, Premier
 Wen Jiabao  said during a visit to southern China last week.  The yuan’s 12-month non-deliverable forwards decreased 0.02
percent to 6.3345 per dollar in  Hong Kong , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The contracts were at a 0.4 percent
discount to the onshore spot rate. In Hong Kong’s offshore
market, the yuan appreciated 0.07 percent to 6.3118.  The central bank set the  reference rate  0.08 percent
stronger at 6.3021 per dollar. The currency is allowed to trade
0.5 percent on either side of the daily fixing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  