-- China’s Stocks Fall to One-Week Low as Inflation Quickens
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-09T08:02:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/china-s-stock-index-futures-drop-before-inflation-report.html
China’s stocks  fell, dragging the
benchmark index to a one-week low, as faster-than-estimated
growth in consumer prices damped speculation the government will
ease monetary policy to bolster economic growth.  China Construction Bank Corp. (939)  and Poly Real Estate Group
Co. led financial companies lower after government data showed
the nation’s inflation rate rebounded to 3.6 percent in March,
from 3.2 percent the previous month.  China  Cosco Holdings Co.,
the world’s largest operator of dry-bulk ships, lost 2.2 percent
after the  U.S. economy  added fewer jobs than estimated, dimming
the outlook for global trade. China Shenhua Energy Co. dropped
among coal producers after the Xinhua News Agency cited an
industry association as saying demand for the fuel may slow.  “Rebounding inflation will weigh on investor sentiment,”
said Wu Kan, a Shanghai-based  fund manager  at Dazhong Insurance
Co., which oversees $285 million. “Some of the expected
monetary easing such as a reserve ratio cut may be delayed.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  fell 0.9 percent to 2,285.78,
the lowest close since March 30. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  lost 1
percent to 2,495.15. Thirty-day  volatility  in the Shanghai index
was at 18, near the highest level in a month. About 7.3 billion
shares changed hands on April 6, about 17 percent less than the
daily average this year.  The Shanghai gauge has gained 3.9 percent this year on
speculation the central bank will lower lenders’ reserve
requirements and reduce borrowing costs to counter slowing
economic growth. Stocks in the Shanghai Composite are valued at
9.7 times estimated earnings, compared with a record low of 8.9
times on Jan. 6, according to weekly  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Inflation Jumps  Construction Bank, the country’s second-largest bank, slid
1.3 percent to 4.67 yuan. Poly Real Estate, China’s second-
largest developer by market value, fell 0.6 percent to 11.29
yuan.  China Merchants Bank Co. (600036)  lost 1.1 percent to 11.68 yuan
after regulators approved the lender’s plan to raise 35 billion
yuan ($5.5 billion) in a rights offer. China Vanke Co., the
nation’s biggest listed property developer, retreated 1.9
percent to 8.22 yuan.  Last month’s increase in consumer prices exceeded the
median 3.4 percent estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 33
economists. Higher-than-expected inflation may limit the
magnitude of policy loosening, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in
an e-mailed note today. At the same time, gains in consumer
prices are likely to slow in the coming months, it said.  Growth Target  The statistics bureau is scheduled to report China’s first-
quarter gross domestic product and other March data including
industrial production on April 13. The  economy  probably grew 8.4
percent in the first three months of the year, according to the
median estimate of 38 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The economy expanded 8.9 percent in the fourth quarter of
2011, the least in 10 quarters. The government last month
lowered this year’s economic growth target to 7.5 percent, after
keeping the goal at 8 percent over the past seven years.  China Cosco fell 2.2 percent to 5 yuan. Cosco Shipping Co.,
a unit of China’s biggest shipping company, lost 1.7 percent to
4.67 yuan. China Shipping Development Co., a unit of China’s
second-biggest sea-cargo group, dropped 1.3 percent to 5.99
yuan.  China’s cabinet ministries are studying supportive measures
for lowering taxes on Chinese shipping lines, the Economic
Observer reported today, citing an unidentified person. The
possible policy changes may allow the companies to pay taxes
based on tonnage of shipping, instead of the current corporate
income tax rate, the report said.  U.S. Job Data  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  dropped 0.6 percent today after
the U.S. Labor Department said on April 6 that employers added
120,000 jobs in March, the lowest number in five months. The
jobless rate fell to 8.2 percent, the lowest level since January
2009, from 8.3 percent, it said. U.S. markets were closed April
6 for a national holiday.  The U.S. is China’s second-largest export market, making up
about 17 percent of the nation’s overseas shipments, according
to Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co.  Shenhua, the nation’s largest coal producer, fell 1.9
percent to 25.52 yuan. China Coal Energy Co., the second-
biggest, sank 2 percent to 8.90 yuan.  China’s coal demand may continue slowing in the second
quarter as the economy decelerates, Xinhua reported yesterday,
citing Wang Xianzheng, chairman of the China Coal Industry
Association.  The Shanghai Composite gained 1.9 percent last week after
the China Securities Regulatory Commission increased the
investment quota available for qualified foreign institutions to
$80 billion from $30 billion.  The Securities Association of China has proposed to the
regulators to allow some Chinese investors to buy overseas
securities directly through qualified domestic institutions, the
 Securities Times  reported today, without saying where it got the
information. The association suggested the country do this by
using the current quotas approved by the State Administration of
Foreign Exchange.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  