-- China Consumer Prices Rise Faster-Than-Estimated 3.6%
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-09T09:14:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/china-consumer-prices-rise-faster-than-estimated-3-6-.html
China ’s  inflation  accelerated more
than forecast in March on a pickup in food prices, signaling
that policy makers may exercise caution in adding stimulus to
boost growth.  Consumer prices rose 3.6 percent from a year earlier, the
National Bureau of Statistics said today. That was more than the
median 3.4 percent estimate in a Bloomberg News  survey  of 33
economists. Food-related costs gained 7.5 percent.  Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s officials may need to remain alert to
the risk of inflation bouncing back even after price increases
stayed below the government’s 4 percent target for a second
month.  China’s economy  may have expanded last quarter at the
slowest pace in almost three years, showing the limits of the
nation’s contribution to global growth as U.S. job growth
weakens and concern mounts about  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis.  “The upside surprise in today’s CPI reading is likely to
raise concerns about a possible rebound in inflationary
pressures among policy makers,” said Song Yu, a Beijing-based
economist with Goldman Sachs Group Inc. “The data could limit
the magnitude of the policy loosening that likely started in
March,” Song said, citing Goldman’s observations on the
increasing supply of loans and news reports on the government
easing restrictions on banks’ lending capacity.  The  Shanghai  Composite Index fell 0.9 percent, the most
since March 29, while the yuan was little changed at 6.3085
against the dollar.  Song said that “underlying inflationary pressures remain
modest” and Goldman Sachs expects price gains to “trend down
in the coming months.”  Prevent Inflation Rebound  Authorities will seek to “prevent a rebound” in consumer
prices and manage inflationary expectations, Wen said during a
visit to southern China from April 1 to 3.  China’s producer price  index , a leading indicator for
consumer inflation, fell 0.3 in March from a year earlier after
showing no change in February, the statistics bureau said. That
was the first decline since November 2009 and matched the median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 29 economists.  Estimates for the CPI ranged from 2.7 percent to 3.6
percent. The gauge rose 3.2 percent in February, while food
prices rose 6.2 percent.  Yao Wei, a Hong Kong-based economist with Societe Generale
SA, said the data will complicate the timing of monetary-policy
actions as economic growth slows. Inflation may decelerate this
quarter because of higher bases of comparison with the same
months in 2011, Yao said. She wouldn’t rule out a reserve-ratio
cut for April, while an interest-rate reduction is “extremely
unlikely.”  Real Savings Rate  The data pushed China’s so-called real savings rate, which
excludes inflation, back to being negative after turning
positive in February for the first time in two years. The
benchmark one-year deposit  rate  has been 3.5 percent since July.  Tao Dong, chief regional economist at Credit Suisse AG in
 Hong Kong , said even with the inflation pickup, CPI is
“decisively falling” below 4 percent, which “allows more
policy flexibility.”  Today’s report showed vegetable prices surged 20.5 percent
in March from a year earlier after a 6.5 percent increase in
February, while meat and egg prices climbed 11.3 percent last
month. The acceleration is “most likely temporary” and the
result of bad weather in a couple of vegetable-planting
provinces, said  Ren Xianfang , a Beijing-based economist with IHS
Global Insight.  Prices for clothing and shoes rose 3.8 percent in March, a
sign of underlying wage pressures, said  Paul Cavey , a Hong Kong-
based economist with Macquarie Securities Ltd. That compares
with a 0.8 percent rise in March 2011.  Slower Expansion  The economy may have expanded about 8.4 percent in the
first quarter from a year earlier,  Zhang Xiaoqiang , vice
chairman of the National Development and Reform Commission, said
April 3, citing initial estimates from “relevant China research
institutes.” The statistics bureau is scheduled to release the
data on April 13. In the fourth quarter, growth was 8.9 percent.  Elsewhere in Asia,  Japan  swung to a current-account surplus
of 1.18 trillion yen ($14.5 billion) in February after a record
deficit in January, the Ministry of Finance said in  Tokyo  today.  South Korean producer price inflation eased in March to 2.8
percent, the slowest pace in two years, after a decline in
agricultural product prices, a Bank of Korea report showed.
 Taiwan ’s exports shrank 3.2 percent in March from a year earlier,
a smaller drop than the 4.5 percent median of nine estimates in
a Bloomberg News survey.  Russia Interest Rate  Russia ’s central bank refrained from cutting  interest rates 
today after signaling that “medium-term” inflation risks are
increasing. Bank Rossii left the refinancing rate at 8 percent,
as predicted by 21 of 22 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.
 Greece  will report inflation and industrial production data.  In  Mexico , a report today may show inflation eased to 3.76
percent in March, according to the median of nine estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Chile  will release trade data for the
same month.  China, the world’s largest oil consumer after the U.S.,
increased gasoline and diesel prices for the second time in less
than six weeks on March 20 after crude had its biggest monthly
gain in a year, adding to pressure for consumer prices to rise.  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp.,  Asia ’s biggest refiner,
said last month it will ramp up crude production and develop
natural gas fields to counter losses from selling diesel and
gasoline at state-mandated prices. Sinopec, as the Beijing-based
company is known, said fourth-quarter profit dropped 23 percent,
missing estimates.  Minimum Wages  Shanghai joined Beijing and Shenzhen in raising minimum
wages this year as policy makers seek to spur  consumer spending 
and a shrinking labor surplus pushes up salaries. The nation’s
financial hub and most affluent city said in February it will
raise the figure by 13 percent to 1,450 yuan ($230) a month
starting in April.  The People’s Bank of China cut lenders’  reserve
requirements  effective Feb. 24 for the second time in three
months to pump more liquidity into the banking system.  Analysts in a Bloomberg News survey last month unanimously
said banks’ reserve requirements will fall this year, while nine
of 20 predicted lower benchmark borrowing costs.  Wen said last month the government aims to keep consumer-
price gains within about 4 percent for 2012, taking into account
risks from imported inflation and rising costs of land, labor
and capital.  People’s Bank of China Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said on
April 3 that the policy goal shared by China and other emerging
nations is to “gradually bring inflation down” to help achieve
a so-called soft landing. He didn’t elaborate.  --Victoria Ruan. With assistance from Ailing Tan in  Singapore .
Editors: Scott Lanman, Stephanie Phang  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at 
 vruan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  