-- Colombian Bond Yields Fall to Record Low on Slowing Inflation
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2012-04-09T19:19:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/colombian-bond-yields-fall-to-record-low-on-slowing-inflation.html
Colombia ’s peso bonds rose, pushing
yields to a record low, after a government report that showed
inflation unexpectedly slowed last month buoyed appetite for
fixed-rate securities.  The yield on Colombia’s 10 percent peso-denominated debt
due in July 2024 fell 10 basis points, or 0.10 percentage point,
to 7.13 percent, according to the central bank. That’s the
lowest level on a closing basis since the securities started
trading in March 2009. The price rose 0.935 centavo to 122.915
centavos per peso.  Annual inflation slowed to 3.4 percent in March, the
national statistics agency said in an April 4 report after
trading ended for the day. Markets were shut April 5-6 for the
Easter holiday. The inflation rate was down from 3.55 percent in
February and was less than the 3.63 percent median estimate
among 23 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The central bank
targets inflation between 2 percent and 4 percent this year.  “Bonds are reacting favorably to the inflation surprise,”
said Daniel Lozano, an analyst at Serfinco SA brokerage in
Bogota. “Inflation is under control, the question now is what
monetary policy will be like going forward.”  Colombian policy makers meeting last month were divided
over the need to raise  interest rates  in the future to keep
inflation in check, minutes of the meeting, published April 4,
showed. The seven-member board voted unanimously on March 23 to
keep the overnight rate unchanged at 5.25 percent, according to
the minutes. Banco de la Republica has raised the benchmark rate
nine times since February 2011, bringing it up from a record-low
3 percent.  Peso Strategy  The peso declined 0.6 percent to 1,783.88 per  U.S. dollar ,
from 1,773.51 on April 6. The currency earlier touched 1,786.11,
the weakest level since April 2. The peso has jumped 8.7 percent
this year, the best performance among 25 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The Colombian peso has reached a “worrying” level,
Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry wrote in an April 8
 opinion column  published in El Tiempo newspaper.  Colombia needs to weigh a “strategy that is richer in
objectives and instruments” that combines the inflation target
with a “more intensive sterilized intervention,” Echeverry,
who is also president of the central bank’s board, wrote.  The central bank has said it will purchase a minimum of $20
million daily in the  spot market  until at least Aug. 4 in a bid
to stem the peso’s rally.  Central bank chief Jose Dario Uribe said in an April 2
 interview  with W Radio that the bank’s board members all want a
weaker peso and that the bank takes measures to ease gains when
the benefits outweighs the costs.  The pace of further interest rate increases in Colombia
will depend on the peso, Nomura Holdings Inc. said.  The peso’s rally “might make the board a bit less
hawkish,” strategist  Benito Berber  wrote in a note to clients
today. “The next hike, and yes there will be another hike, will
be data dependent and more importantly Colombian peso
dependent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  