-- Colombia Triples Peru Coffee Buying on Harvest Decline
-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 2012-04-09T22:02:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/colombia-triples-peru-coffee-buying-on-harvest-decline.html
Colombia , the second-largest
producer of Arabica coffee beans, almost tripled purchases of
Peruvian coffee to make up for a decline in harvests this year,
according to the head of Peru’s main coffee-growing group.  Colombia bought 99,581 60-kilogram bags (132 pounds)
through February, almost triple the 36,545 bags a year earlier,
making it the second-largest buyer of Peruvian coffee after the
U.S., said Eduardo Montauban, head of the nation’s Coffee
Chamber. Colombia accounted for 22 percent of Peru’s coffee
sales in the first two months, up from 8 percent last year, he
said.  Colombia may see harvests fall to 7.5 million bags this
year from 7.81 million bags in 2011, a 25-year-low, because of
heavy rainfall that damaged flowering and increased crop
diseases, according to Colombia’s National Federation of Coffee
Growers.  Peru , which produced a record 5.2 million bags last
year, is the world’s fifth-largest coffee producer.  “Colombia’s a good market and pays a good price,”
Montauban said today in an interview in Lima. “They’ve had a
production deficit for several years, so that’s a window of
opportunity for Peru.”  Doubling Plantations  Peru seeks to double plantations to 780,000 hectares (1.93
million acres) over the next decade as credit for fertilizers,
land titling and training for farmers improves yields and makes
coffee planters more competitive, Montauban said. Coffee farmers
invest, on average, $2,500 per hectare, according to the
chamber.  Investments in ports and roads such as the $1 billion
Inter-Oceanic Highway linking ports in Peru and  Brazil  will cut
transport costs for farmers, while free-trade agreements with
countries like China and  Japan  will open up markets, he said.  “We have the land, we have the markets, so the sky’s the
limit,” Montauban said. “The highland jungle area above 1,000
meters that is ideal for coffee runs down the length of Peru.”  Peruvian coffee export revenue jumped 27 percent to a
record $1.6 billion last year as prices surged and companies
including  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT) ,  Nestle SA (NESN)  and  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) 
boosted purchases, Montauban said.  Export revenue will drop to $1.1 billion this year as
harvests are expected to fall about 8 percent in the second year
of their biannual cycle and prices decline from a 14-year high
in May 2011, he said.  Arabica-coffee futures for May delivery retreated 2.7
percent to $1.7805 a pound on ICE, the fourth consecutive drop.
Prices have dropped 23 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Emery in  Lima  at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  