-- Colombia’s Helm Bank Soars on Takeover Speculation: Bogota Mover
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o   a n d   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-04-09T20:33:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/colombia-s-helm-bank-soars-on-takeover-speculation-bogota-mover.html
Helm Bank SA (PFBHELM)  rose the most on record
in Bogota trading on speculation the Colombian lender will be
acquired.  The bank will announce this week that it has agreed to be
bought,  El Tiempo  newspaper reported, citing people it didn’t
identify. The shares soared 16 percent to 460 pesos, the biggest
gain since the stock started trading in December 2007.  Helm has jumped 50 percent this year, outpacing the 18
percent gain in the benchmark IGBC Index of stocks, as investors
bet it will be targeted following an unprecedented surge in
acquisitions of Andean financial firms and an increase in credit
in  Colombia , said Juliana Valencia, a stocks analyst at Alianza
Valores brokerage in Bogota.  “Recently we’ve seen a lot of appetite for Colombian
banks, not only given the economy’s expansion but also the
growth in lending,” Valencia said.  Helm President Carmina Ferro didn’t return a phone call
from Bloomberg News seeking comment. In a February interview,
Ferro said controlling stakeholders have no intention of
selling.  “The market has reacted strongly to the rumors,” Cesar Cuervo, an analyst at brokerage Correval SA in Bogota wrote in a
report to clients.  Acquisitions of Andean financial firms worth a record $7.56
billion were announced last year, five times the previous year’s
total, while similar transactions in  North America  slumped 8.9
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Credit Expansion  Credit expansion of 22 percent helped power the economy’s
5.9 percent growth last year, the fastest pace since gross
domestic product rose 6.9 percent in 2007.  Itau Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB4) ,  Latin America ’s biggest bank by
market value,  Banco do Brasil SA (BBAS3)  and  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  are
among bidders for Helm, according to El Tiempo.  An official from Banco do Brasil, who asked not to be
identified because of company policy, declined to comment. An
official from Itau didn’t immediately return calls seeking
comment and Andrew Chornenky, a spokesman for Scotiabank, didn’t
immediately answer a phone call and e-mail.  Corpbanca of Chile agreed in December to pay $1.16 billion
for 95 percent of  Banco Santander Colombia SA (SANTAN) . Scotiabank bought
Colombia’s Colpatria for $1 billion in October while  Brazil ’s
Banco BTG Pactual SA agreed Feb. 8 to buy  Chile ’s Celfin Capital
SA for $245 million in cash plus additional shares.  Banco de
Credito del Peru,  the country’s biggest bank, agreed to buy 51
percent of Chile’s Correval in a deal announced Dec. 1.  “Helm is a medium-sized bank, quite strong in the
corporate and business lending segments,” said David Pelaez, an
analyst at Bolsa y Renta brokerage in Medellin. “It’s
interesting for a foreign bank as it would automatically gain a
significant market share of approximately 4.2 percent.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net ;
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  