-- Coppola’s Wine Joins Low-Alcohol Vampire in Best Pinot Picks
-- B y   J o h n   M a r i a n i
-- 2012-04-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/coppola-s-wine-joins-low-alcohol-vampire-in-best-pinot-picks.html
If I wanted to get drunk fast, I
need not knock back jiggers of whiskey.  A couple of glasses of
high-alcohol  California  pinot noirs do the job quite nicely.  But that’s no reason to share the enthusiasm of my fellow
American wine writers for the high-octane pinots from some of
Napa and Sonoma’s cult wines packing more than 15 percent
alcohol.  They award these wines high ratings, using terms like
“blockbuster,” “fleshy,” “muscular,” and “hedonistic.” While
those great buzz words when you’re talking about Hollywood Roman
gladiator movies, they aren’t qualities I seek in a good pinot
noir.  Indeed, it would be rare to find any of the great pinot
noir-based wine of Burgundy with alcohol levels anywhere near
these brutes. Domaine de la Romanee-Conti, one of the richest
(and most expensive) Burgundies, usually hovers around 13
percent.  Still, those monster California pinots (Oregon pinots tend
not to be so massive) rack up accolades and awards. Finesse and
balance are not their strongpoints. High  prices  are. Patz & Hall
pinot noirs, with high alcohol levels, run $55 to $85. Paul Hobbs pinot noirs, which head north of 14.5 percent, offer wines
through their mailing for about $45-$50 a bottle.  Careful Labeling  Luckily, the US Food and Drug Administration requires that
alcohol levels be printed clearly on every bottle of wine. The
body allows a plus or minus variance for wines of more than 14
percent, and there are tax penalties for underestimating those
levels.  So I advise paying close attention to those labels and
reach for wines that stay within the 14 percent range.  I have always admired the outstanding pinot noirs of
Williams Selyem, whose wines stay between 13.8 and 14.1 during
most vintages. On the other hand, they’ve been known to make
some whopping big chardonnays and zinfandels that crash through
the 16 percent ceiling. But that’s another story.  Here are some pinots I’ve enjoyed recently, all below 14
percent, and a heck of a lot less pricey than their brawnier
cousins.  Forest Glen Pinot Noir 2010 ($8)  This is very easy to drink, at 12.8 percent, with very soft
tannins and tangy acids. It’s actually made from 80 percent
pinot noir grapes and 20 percent syrah to give it more berry
flavors. The regional vineyards are not specified on the label
so the grapes could come from anywhere in California. Not a
great deal of depth here, but a good $8 wine that goes equally
well with a club sandwich or a grilled salmon.  Vampire 2009 ($13)  The silly name tends to put off wine snobs, and its website
reads “rumor has it that Vampire Vineyards are actually owned by
a circle of vampires.” While no one would call this pinot noir
complex, it has a good strawberry nose and a hint of that
“barnyard” taste pinot noir devotees love. With 12.5 percent
alcohol, this lightweight that makes a fine pairing with veal or
pork dishes, or even fresh tuna served rare.  DeLoach  Heritage Reserve 2009 ($13)  This wine from the Russian River Valley -- home to many of
California’s best pinot noirs -- begins on the palate with
plenty of cherries. It’s clean and fresh, and at 13.5 percent
alcohol delivers a true pinot noir flavor that bigger wines
obliterate. DeLoach prides itself on practicing the old
Burgundian technique called “pigeage.” This artisanal tradition
involves punching down the grape skins during fermentation to
enhance tannins and color. This wine doesn’t have a long finish
but is rich enough to go with roast lamb or any chicken dish.  MacMurray Ranch 2009 ($18)  There are violets in the nose, typical of a fine pinot
noir, and this Sonoma Valley bottling has both the body and
spice characteristic of sunny California pinot noirs that
distinguish them from cooler terroirs. I would happily drink it
with smoky pork or a pasta dish with wild mushrooms.  Francis Coppola Silver Diamond Label Monterey 2009 ($18)  The price is certainly right for this example from Monterey
County’s Santa Lucia Highlands. It is bold and complex, with a
sweet undertone you rarely find in Burgundian wines. It’s one of
those rare pinot noirs that will go with tomato sauces, which I
suspect winemaker and filmmaker  Francis Ford Coppola  had in mind
all the time. The website also recommends it with take-out
Chinese.  Ramspeck Napa Valley 2009 ($17)  A wonderful bouquet that flourishes into a wine with some
tight tannins, this will take on the char of a steak grilled
outdoors as well as game dishes come this autumn.  Angeline Reserve  2010 ($17)  This is an interesting blend of pinot noirs, 36 percent
from Sonoma, 34 percent from Mendocino, and 30 percent from the
cooler Santa Barbara region to produce an admirably balanced
wine, where the acids underpin and refresh the tannic qualities.
This bottle’s plummy character will appeal to those who crave
big fisted wines. It would go equally well with a generous
serving of Parmigiano-Reggiano or cheddar as it would with the
sweet flavors of Chinese food like Peking duck.  ( John Mariani  writes about wine for Muse, the arts and
culture section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
John Mariani at  john@johnmariani.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 