-- Czech Premier Trumps Rebels as Budget-Cutting Cabinet Unites
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-04-10T17:41:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/czech-premier-poised-to-trump-rebels-in-budget-cutting-cabinet.html
Czech Premier Petr Necas overcame a
rebellion within his ruling coalition and unified the government
behind a deficit-cutting agenda that has pushed bond yields to a
record low.  The three parties in the 20-month-old government agreed
today on spending cuts and revenue-boosting measures totaling 57
billion koruna ($3 billion) next year to narrow the fiscal
 deficit  to within the European Union’s limit of 3 percent of
economic output, Necas said. The deal was a condition for
preserving the coalition, which had assembled the largest ruling
majority since the country’s independence 19 years ago.  Investors have been attracted to Czech debt by government
efforts to push through deficit-cutting measures. The fiscal
agenda was endangered last week after Public Affairs, the
smallest coalition party, threatened to quit unless the premier
overhauls the Cabinet. Necas refused, warning that he’s willing
to face snap elections.  “What I consider key is today’s agreement on acceptance of
a concept of the state budget for 2013 and 2014, and the budget
outlook for 2015,” Necas told reporters after the coalition
leaders met. “This concept clearly embraces the government’s
consolidation strategy, which includes the public-finance
deficit of 2.9 percent of gross domestic product in 2013.”  Low Debt Yield  Government measures to narrow the fiscal gap, including an
increase in the value-added tax and an overhaul of the pension
system, have helped curb the country’s funding costs. The yield
on the Czech Eurobond maturing in 2021 fell to an all-time low
of 3.353 percent on April 6, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It rose to 3.390 percent today. The koruna weakened
0.6 percent to 24.862 per euro as of 6:37 p.m. in  Prague .  Since taking power in 2010, the ruling coalition has
repeatedly quarreled over personnel issues and measures to cut
spending. The government averted a collapse in June 2011 in a
dispute over the division of Cabinet posts that had prompted a
similar ultimatum from Public Affairs.  The smallest government member has opposed some proposals
presented by Finance Minister Miroslav Kalousek, a member of the
TOP09 party. Education Minister Josef Dobes resigned in March in
protest against a plan to cut his budget allocation.  Euro Adoption  The government plans to narrow the public finance deficit,
the fiscal yardstick for assessing an EU member’s readiness to
adopt the euro, to 1.9 percent of GDP in 2014, Necas said. To
meet this target, the Cabinet must find savings and boost
revenue by a combined 95 billion koruna that year, he said.  The key measures include an increase in the value-added tax
rates by one percentage point to 15 percent and 21 percent, a
special temporary tax for higher earners and cuts in the
government’s operating spending.  Even with the squabbling, the coalition has pushed through
measures to curb the deficit, including increases in VAT and the
 retirement age  that the  International Monetary Fund  said may
eliminate most of the shortfall in the pay-as-you-go pension
system.  Public Affairs’ support in opinion polls has fallen the
most among the three ruling parties since the elections. It
wouldn’t reach the 5 percent threshold to enter parliament if
elections were held now, according to a Feb. 22-March 2 poll by
the Stem company. The margin of error was plus or minus 1.5
percentage points to 2.5 percentage points.  Opposition Leads Polls  The opposition  Social Democrats  would win elections now,
according to the Stem poll, which was conducted among 1,096
respondents and released March 9. Necas’s Civic Democrats, or
ODS, and TOP09 wouldn’t get enough votes to create a majority
government together, the poll showed.  Necas’s Civic Democrats and the TOP09 “called Public
Affairs’ bluff,” Jiri Pehe, a political analyst and the
director of  New York University  in Prague, said April 5 by
phone, forecasting the coalition would remain intact.  The decline in popularity is a reason for the ruling
parties to remain in the coalition as they would face a “severe
defeat” in early elections, Pehe said.  The  Czech Republic  has a history of political infighting.
It’s had two minority governments and two interim Cabinets in
the past 14 years, stalling previous efforts to control the
 budget deficit . In 2009, Prime Minister  Mirek Topolanek  lost a
no-confidence motion halfway through the country’s six-month
term as EU president.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  