-- DBS Must Sell Danamon Shares on Refloat Rule, Bourse Says
-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a   a n d   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 2012-04-10T08:25:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/dbs-must-sell-danamon-shares-if-stake-exceeds-80-bourse-says.html
DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS) ,  Southeast
Asia ’s largest bank, must sell shares of  PT Bank Danamon
Indonesia (BDMN)  back to the public if it owns more than 80 percent of
the lender after a takeover, according to the Indonesian bourse.  DBS offered to buy Jakarta-based Danamon for about $7.2
billion on April 2 in the biggest takeover by a lender in the
region. Indonesia’s exchange rules require investors buying a
listed company through a tender offer to pare their stakes down
to no more than 80 percent, according to the Indonesian capital
market supervisory agency.  The shares, if sold in a block, would amount to about $1.4
billion based on DBS’s bid price, exceeding any stock sale in
 Indonesia , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. DBS, which
has two years from the close of the offer to pare down its
stake, said in an e-mailed response to queries late yesterday it
could “spread” the share sale over that time.  “Two years down the road, we expect Danamon to be showing
synergies with DBS, based on DBS’s own timeline,” said Anand Pathmakanthan, an analyst at Nomura Singapore Ltd. who rates DBS
a buy. The share sale is “not a pressing issue,” he said.  The rule is aimed at maintaining liquidity in the market by
allowing stock investors to still own shares of publicly traded
companies after an acquisition, Nurhaida, head of the capital
market supervisory agency, said in a mobile-phone text message
today. Under Indonesian law, DBS is allowed to buy as much as 99
percent of a local bank, which means it would have to sell back
as much as 19 percent of Danamon to the public.  Maybank, Bank Internasional  Pathmakanthan said the Singapore bank could also seek an
extension after two years similar to  Malayan Banking Bhd. (MAY) ’s
purchase of PT Bank Internasional Indonesia in 2008. The
Indonesian regulator agreed to extend the two-year timeframe if
losses exceeded 10 percent of the investment.  DBS said last week it will pay Singapore’s  Temasek Holdings
Pte (TMSK) , its biggest stakeholder, 45.2 trillion rupiah ($4.9
billion) in new shares for its 67 percent stake and buy the
remaining stock from other shareholders for 21.2 trillion rupiah
in cash. The cash offer, at 7,000 rupiah a share, is at a 52
percent premium from Danamon’s 4,600 rupiah close on March 30.  “A lot of investors will likely want to sell their shares
to DBS because of the premium,” said Syaiful Adrian, a banking
analyst at Jakarta-based PT Ciptadana Securities, who’s advising
his clients to join the tender offer. Over the next two years
“banking shares outlook should remain good with lending growth
that’s driven by investment and consumer credit,” he said.  Danamon Shares Fall  Danamon shares declined 2.3 percent to 6,300 rupiah as of
2:52 p.m. in Jakarta trading, set for the lowest since the DBS
bid was made. Shares of the  Singapore  bank climbed 0.1 percent
to S$13.28, set for its first gain since announcing its takeover
offer on April 2.  DBS should comply with the rule of holding no more than 80
percent of Danamon, Eddy Sugito, listing director at the
Indonesia Stock Exchange, said in a mobile-phone text message
yesterday.  “We intend to keep the listing” of Danamon, Edna Koh, a
Singapore-based spokeswoman at DBS, said yesterday. She also
referred to a DBS  filing  with the Singapore stock exchange last
week, which said the lender will have to ensure it holds no more
than 80 percent of Danamon shares within two years of the
acquisition, unless it gets a waiver or extension from
Indonesian authorities.  Economic Growth  Acquiring Indonesia’s sixth-largest bank by assets will
help DBS branch out from Singapore and  Hong Kong  to tap an
economy that grew last year at the fastest pace since before the
Asian financial crisis. Trade and infrastructure finance as well
as corporate and retail banking are among the promising areas in
Indonesia, Southeast Asia’s biggest economy,  Piyush Gupta , chief
executive officer of the Singapore-based bank, said last week.  The takeover may be delayed as Indonesian regulators could
use DBS’s bid to get reciprocal access to Singapore’s banking
market, the  Straits Times  reported on April 6. Difi Johansyah, a
spokesman for the central bank, said in a mobile-phone text
message yesterday that the takeover isn’t a problem as long as
it strengthens Danamon, declining to comment on reciprocity.  The Monetary Authority of Singapore, the city’s central
bank, said in an e-mailed response to queries that four
Indonesian banks have operations in the city-state, adding that
“all foreign banks are free to expand their activities in
Singapore subject to the guidelines specific to the license
under which they operate.”  For DBS, the acquisition gives it access to Danamon’s
3,000-branch network that serves 6 million customers. The
Indonesian economy grew 6.46 percent last year, a pace unseen
since before the Asian crisis in 1997, and is forecast to grow
6.5 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net ;
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gunsalus at   jgunsalus@bloomberg.net  