-- Dechert, Chadbourne, Jones Day, Hunton: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-04-09T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/dechert-chadbourne-jones-day-hunton-goodwin-business-of-law.html
Dechert LLP (1154L)  said energy attorney
Kenneth E. Mack, who led  Chadbourne & Parke LLP (1224L) ’s  Kazakhstan 
office, joined the firm along with a team of 10 lawyers.  Mack, a partner in Almaty, the commercial capital of
Kazakhstan, focuses his practice on transactions in the energy
and natural resources sectors.  “Kazakhstan is of great strategic importance not only to
our Russian client base, but also our Chinese and multinational
corporate clients,” said Laura Brank, head of Dechert’s Russia
practice.  Chadbourne “will continue to refer those clients who need
counsel in Almaty to the office as the opportunities arise,”
managing partner Andrew Giaccia said.  “The departure of the Almaty office is not inconsistent
with our strategic vision for the firm,” he said. “In the last
few years we began shifting our resources to our offices in
other markets with greater potential for us and expanding into
other high growth markets, as evidenced by our recent opening of
offices in Brazil and  Turkey .”  Three additional partners are joining Dechert: Victor Mokrousov who advises on corporate, finance and regulatory
matters, particularly in energy and mining; Sergei Vataev, who
focuses on arbitration disputes, as well as corporate and
project finance; and Mukhit Yeleuov, who advises clients on
litigation, energy and finance.  Seven associates also joined: banking and finance lawyers
Ainur Abdalova, Yevgeniya Nossova and Benjamin Paine; litigator
Abzal Kassymzhanov; and corporate lawyers Nadezhda Oparina,
Elshat Seksembayeva and Asel Yermekova.  News  Minnesota Lawyer Fined $50,000 for Frivolous MERS Lawsuits  William B. Butler, of Minneapolis-based law firm  Butler
Liberty Law LLC , was fined $50,000 by a federal judge for filing
lawsuits based upon frivolous “show-me-the-note” defenses
designed to thwart foreclosure proceedings.  U.S. District Judge Patrick Schiltz in  Minneapolis 
dismissed several cases filed by Butler and ordered him to pay
unspecified attorneys’ fees to mortgage-registry operator
Merscorp Holdings Inc. and its co-defendants. Schiltz also
forwarded a copy of the court’s order to the Minnesota Lawyers
Professional Responsibility Board, according to the opinion.  In filing frivolous lawsuits and using delaying tactics,
Schiltz said, “Butler has been abusing, not using, the judicial
system.”  “There is a steep price to be paid for lawyers who prey on
consumers who are experiencing financial difficulty and waste
the court’s valuable time with unsupportable attacks on the MERS
system,” Janis L. Smith, a Merscorp spokeswoman, said in a
statement.  Butler didn’t respond to two phone calls to his office
seeking comment on the judge’s order.  The case is Welk v. GMAC, 011-cv-02676 U.S. District Court,
District of Minnesota (Minneapolis).  Ruth Madoff’s Lawyers Can’t Collect Legal Fees, Judge Rules  Epstein, Becker & Green PC (1366L) , the firm which represented  Ruth Madoff  in a partnership dispute in  New Jersey  federal court,
can’t collect legal fees, a U.S. judge in New York ruled.  The New Jersey firm filed a third-party suit in federal
court in New York, saying that it was entitled to legal fees
totaling $24,790 from Madoff’s forfeited settlement funds.  Attorney Robert S. Gettinger sued Madoff in federal court
in  Newark  in 2007 alleging that he and Madoff entered into a
limited partnership in 1993 with Magnetic Services Inc. to buy a
magnetic resonance imaging machine, lease offices in Hoboken,
New Jersey, and provide space for physicians. Dr. Mark Berger,
who ran Magnetic Services, is also a defendant.  Madoff and Gettinger, who each invested $150,000, said they
were entitled to 25 percent of the partnership’s profits. Madoff
and Gettinger filed a breach-of-contract complaint last year,
claiming Berger and the partnership didn’t pay them all they
were owed to end the arrangement in 2005. That lawsuit was
settled in May 2009.  Madoff’s husband,  Bernard Madoff , 73, pleaded guilty in
2009 to orchestrating what prosecutors called the biggest  Ponzi
scheme  in history. Denny Chin, the federal appeals court judge
who is still presiding over the Madoff case, issued a criminal
forfeiture judgment of $170.8 billion in June 2009, just before
he sentenced Madoff to 150 years in a federal prison in  North
Carolina . Ruth Madoff agreed to be bound by the terms of the
forfeiture order.  Chin said that Epstein Becker, which submitted the petition
last year, wasn’t entitled to the funds because “it cannot
assert a legal interest in the forfeited property.”  The case is U.S. v. Bernard L. Madoff, 09-cr-213, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  Moves  Jones Day Expands Corporate and M&A Practice in Dusseldorf  Jones Day (1113L)  said added five corporate lawyers to the mergers
and acquisitions practice at its office in Dusseldorf, which
opened Feb. 1.  Ulrich Brauer from  Simmons & Simmons  and Kerstin Mast from
Bird & Bird LLP will join as partners. Ralf Recknagel from  GSK
Stockmann + Kollegen  (0120459D) is of counsel and Norman Kulpa and Zhaoxia
Chen, both from Simmons & Simmons, are associates.  “We see tremendous opportunities in the region for
sophisticated, global corporate counsel and are in contact with
other well known transactional lawyers from Dusseldorf whom we
expect to join us soon,” Ansgar Rempp, partner-in-charge of the
Jones Day Dusseldorf office, said in a statement.  The Dusseldorf site is Jones Day’s third office in  Germany .
The firm has more than 2,500 lawyers worldwide.  U.S. Lawyer Stander Joins Hunton & Williams Litigation Team  Hunton & Williams LLP (1130L)  added David J. Stander to its complex
commercial litigation practice as counsel in its  Washington 
office. Stander came from the  Justice Department ’s criminal
division, the firm said in a statement.  “Dave has an extensive background in labor matters that
involve RICO and ERISA issues,” said Michael J. Mueller, co-
head of the firm’s complex commercial litigation practice.  Hunton & Williams’ complex litigation team has more than
275 litigators with trial experience in federal, state and
international courts, in class-action, multijurisdictional and
complex litigation, and in arbitration and mediation. Hunton &
Williams has more than 800 lawyers in 19 offices around the
world.  McDermott Adds Partner Martin Milner to Washington Tax Team  McDermott Will & Emery LLP (1121L)  named Martin Milner as a partner
in its U.S. and international tax practice group, based in the
firm’s Washington office.  Milner, who joins from  Mayer Brown LLP (1120L) , will focus his
practice on the U.S. federal tax aspects of mergers,
acquisitions, dispositions and restructuring transactions.  McDermott has more than 1,000 lawyers with offices in
 Boston , Brussels,  Chicago , Dusseldorf, Houston,  London ,  Los
Angeles , Miami, Milan, Munich, New York, Rome, Washington and
 California ’s Orange County and Silicon Valley.  Womble Carlyle Adds Corporate Partner From Paul Hastings  Walter Tinley Anderson III, a corporate and securities
attorney in the Atlanta, joined  Womble Carlyle Sandridge & Rice
LLP (1188L)  as a partner. He was previously at Paul Hastings Janofsky &
Walker Ltd. in the Atlanta office.  Anderson focuses his practice on mergers and acquisitions,
technology transfers and corporate finance. Womble Carlyle has
more than 550 attorneys in 14 offices.  Stuart M. Glass Joins Choate, Hall & Stewart as a Partner  Choate Hall & Stewart LLP (1188L) , a Boston-based firm with 175
attorneys, said Stuart M. Glass joined the firm as a partner in
its securities litigation group. Glass was a partner at  Goodwin
Procter LLP (1176L)  in the firm’s litigation department and a member of
its securities litigation and Securities and Exchange Commission
enforcement and business litigation practices.  Heninger Garrison Adds Patent Litigator Dara T. Jeffries  Heninger Garrison Davis LLC said Dara T. Jeffries joined
the firm as an attorney in the Atlanta office focusing on
intellectual property litigation.  Heninger Garrison, based in Birmingham,  Alabama , has
offices in Atlanta, New Jersey and New York and focuses on
business litigation, class actions and mass torts, intellectual
property and personal injury.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 