-- Delphi Financial Settles Investor Suit Over Tokio Deal
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-04-09T18:16:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/delphi-financial-settles-investor-suit-over-tokio-deal.html
Delphi Financial Group Inc. (DFG) , which
sells worker’s compensation and group life insurance, said it
agreed to settle a shareholder lawsuit over its $2.7 billion
buyout by  Tokio Marine Holdings Inc. (8766)  for $49 million.  Investors sued in January in Delaware Chancery Court in
Wilmington to block the sale, saying the deal’s structure
unfairly enriched company insiders.  Delphi shareholders “will receive their pro rata portion
of a payment equal to $49 million less plaintiffs’ counsel fees
and expenses,” subject to approval by Judge Sam Glasscock,
Delphi said today in a statement. Court documents on the
settlement weren’t immediately available.  Tokio Marine,  Japan ’s second-largest casualty insurer,
agreed in December to pay $44.88 a share for Delphi’s Class A
public shares and $52.88 apiece for its Class B shares. The
proposed sale would be the second time in three years the
Japanese insurer bought a U.S. rival. Tokio Marine purchased
Philadelphia Insurance Cos. for $4.4 billion in 2008.  Last month, Glasscock rejected shareholders’ bid to block
the buyout from going forward because it provided more
compensation for  Robert Rosenkranz , the company’s founder and
chief executive officer, than other investors.  Delphi shareholders argued Rosenkranz structured the deal
to give himself more per share for his Class B shares than Class
A shareholders will get, even though “such disparate
consideration” is prohibited by the company’s charter.  Fair Split  Stuart Grant , a lawyer for Delphi shareholders, said the
settlement was a fair resolution of investors’ claims over the
buyout.  “We got back almost all the extra compensation that Mr.
Rosenkranz was taking as part of the deal and that’s what we
wanted,” Grant said. “We always thought Tokio Marine’s offer
was a good one and now that the split is fair, we’re happy to
see it go through.”  While he denied investors’ request to block the deal,
Glasscock said Delphi shareholders may be entitled to recover
damages from Rosenkranz over his actions in negotiating the
buyout.  Rosenkranz, Delphi’s controlling shareholder, acted as lead
negotiator in talks to sell the company while also serving as a
Delphi contractor through his businesses that provided financial
advice to the insurer, the judge said.  While those conflicts may not have tainted the buyout
negotiations, Glasscock concluded Rosenkranz’s push to receive
more than other Delphi shareholders for his stake in the company
may run afoul of his legal obligations to other investors.  The judge said that it was within his power to order
“disgorgement” of any improper consideration Rosenkranz reaped
through the  Tokio Marine  buyout.  The case is In re Delphi Financial Group Shareholder
Litigation, CA 7144, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  