-- LDK Slides to Four-Month Low on Reports of Planned Firings
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-04-09T20:12:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/ldk-falls-to-four-month-low-after-report-of-planned-layoffs.html
LDK Solar Co. (LDK) , the world’s second-
largest maker of solar wafers, sank to the lowest level in more
than four months in the U.S. after Chinese media reported the
company is planning to fire and reassign workers.  LDK, based in Xinyu in China’s Jiangxi province, dropped
2.4 percent to $3.30 in  New York , the lowest level since Nov.
25. The shares earlier lost  as much as  6.5 percent to $3.16.  The company is making personnel changes involving several
teams in its wafer department, the National Business Daily said
in a  report  dated April 10 on its website, citing LDK’s public
relations division. The adjustments are “intended to control
costs and increase efficiency” and will mainly include
dismissing or assigning excess personnel to other departments,
the Shanghai-based newspaper reported, citing e-mails on April 9
from LDK’s spokesman Li Longji.  Calls to LDK’s U.S. phone number during business hours
weren’t answered.  A person claiming to be an employee of LDK said yesterday
in an Internet posting that the company will fire people “on a
large scale,” the Shanghai-based  China  Business News  said  in a
report today on its website. Those who have worked at LDK for
less than three years will be dismissed, the paper said, citing
the worker’s online post.  LDK currently has about 25,000 employees and there are
approximately 10,000 working at its solar wafer plant, China
Business News said, citing an unidentified person from LDK.  Analysts at Nomura Singapore Ltd.  reiterated  a reduce
rating on LDK’s stock on April 4, retaining a 12-month price
target of $2.50. Auriga USA LLC maintained a sell recommendation
and a price goal of $3 on the same day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  