-- Dollar Falls on Wagers Fed Will Make More Asset Purchases
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-04-09T21:25:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/dollar-falls-on-wagers-fed-will-make-more-asset-purchases.html
The dollar weakened against most
major peers on bets the  Federal Reserve  will start another round
of asset purchases, which may debase the currency, after data
last week showed U.S. employers added fewer jobs than forecast.  The greenback slumped against higher-yielding currencies,
such as New Zealand’s dollar, which benefited during the Fed’s
first two rounds of buying, known as quantitative easing.  “The market is torn between two dominant themes:  risk
aversion , which is dollar positive, and the fear that last
Friday’s payrolls numbers could bring back quantitative easing,
which is dollar negative,” said Boris Schlossberg, director of
research at the online currency trader GFT Forex in New York.  The dollar declined 0.1 percent to $1.3106 per euro at 5
p.m. New York time after gaining earlier as much as 0.5 percent.
The U.S. currency fell 0.2 percent to 81.49 yen and slid to as
low as 81.20 yen, the weakest level since March 8.  Europe ’s
shared currency was little changed at 106.80 yen after falling
earlier to 106.12 yen, the weakest since March 7.  Markets in  New Zealand ,  Australia  and the U.K. were closed
today for a public holiday.  Kiwi Climbs  Brazil ’s real and New Zealand’s dollar, nicknamed the kiwi,
led gains among the greenback’s 16 major counterparts tracked by
Bloomberg. The kiwi strengthened 0.2 percent to 82.16 U.S.
cents. The real appreciated 0.3 percent to 1.8179 per dollar.  Mexico ’s peso gained 0.1 percent to 12.9712 to the
greenback. Norway’s krone, which earlier weakened as much as 0.8
percent, strengthened 0.2 percent to 5.7785 per dollar.  Implied volatility  on three-month options on Group of Seven
nations’ currencies fell to 10.17 percent after closing as high
as 10.33 percent last week, according to a JPMorgan Chase & Co.
index. The measure averaged 11.78 percent over the past year.  Lower volatility makes investments in currencies of nations
with higher benchmark rates more attractive because the risk in
such trades is that market moves will erase profits.  “The primary drivers were the lack of liquidity in the
market and very tight stop-losses set by a variety of market
participants,” said Ravi Bharadwaj, a market analyst at Western
Union Co.’s Western Union Business Solutions unit in  Washington .
A stop is a pre-established order to buy or sell when a specific
price level is reached.  Employment in U.S.  Stocks and commodities declined today, with the  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  dropping 1.1 percent and the Thomson
Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials falling as much as
1 percent.  The greenback fell on April 6 against the euro and yen as
the Labor Department’s employment report revived bets the Fed
will increase stimulus. Nonfarm payrolls added 120,000 jobs in
March, the smallest amount in five months, the data showed.
Economists in a Bloomberg News survey forecast a 205,000 gain.  The Fed has pledged to keep its target  lending rate  at a
record low range of zero to 0.25 percent through at least late
2014. It will hold off on increasing monetary accommodation
unless the U.S. economic expansion falters or prices rise at a
rate slower than its target, according to minutes of the central
bank’s March 13 meeting released last week. Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  is scheduled to speak on financial stability at 7:15
p.m.  New York  time at an Atlanta Fed conference.  Fed Purchases  The central bank bought $2.3 trillion of assets to support
the economy in two rounds of quantitative easing from December
2008 to June. During that period, the dollar fell against all of
its 16 major counterparts.  The yen gained earlier today as  China ’s National Bureau of
Statistics said  consumer prices  in the nation rose 3.6 percent
from a year earlier. That was more than the median 3.4 percent
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 33 economists.  “China’s CPI was slightly higher than expected, and higher
inflation may constrain the authorities’ ability to offset
economic weakness with fiscal stimulus,” said  Mary Nicola , a
currency strategist at BNP Paribas SA in New York.  The yen strengthened earlier as  Japan  reported a 1.18
trillion yen ($14.5 billion)  surplus  in its February current
account, the widest measure of trade, boosting the currency’s
appeal as a haven. The nation had a record deficit in January.  Japan’s currency tends to strengthen during global economic
turmoil because the nation’s current-account surplus makes it
less reliant on foreign capital.  The yen gained 1.4 percent against nine developed-nation
counterparts over the past month, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The dollar rose 0.2
percent, and the euro was little changed. The Australian dollar
lost the most, falling 2.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Cox  at 
 Pcox16@bloomberg.net  