-- Dubai Shares Lead Persian Gulf Lower on Global Growth Concerns
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-04-09T12:55:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/dubai-shares-lead-persian-gulf-lower-on-global-growth-concerns.html
Dubai’s benchmark stock index
retreated for a third day, pushing Persian Gulf shares lower, on
global growth concerns and as oil fell after Iran agreed to
resume talks on its nuclear program.  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , developer of the world’s tallest
tower, fell 0.9 percent.  Emirates Integrated Telecommunications
Co. (DU) , the United Arab Emirates’ second-biggest phone company
known as Du, dropped to the lowest level since February. The  DFM
General Index (DFMGI)  lost 0.7 percent to 1,657.59, the lowest since
April 2, at the 2 p.m. close in Dubai. The  Bloomberg GCC 200
Index (BGCC200)  decreased 0.6 percent.  “High inflation numbers from  China , which indicate that it
will also slow down its monetary easing policy, on the back of
falling Asian markets encouraged U.A.E. investors to book
profits and stay on the sidelines,” said Nabil Farhat, a
partner at Abu Dhabi-based Al Fajer Securities.  Asian stocks dropped for a fourth day as faster-than-
estimated growth in consumer prices in China signaled the
central bank may have less room to ease monetary policy to
bolster economic growth. American employers last month added the
fewest jobs since October, the Labor Department said on April 6,
a market holiday in the U.S.  Emerging market stocks  declined 0.9
percent at 4:52 p.m. in Dubai and futures on the  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  lost 1.1 percent.  Iran Talks  Oil for May delivery declined as much as 1.7 percent to
$101.55 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . Iran and the five permanent United Nations
Security Council members plus Germany will meet for nuclear
talks starting April 14 in Istanbul, European Union spokesman
 Michael Mann  said. The last meeting was in January 2011. Gulf
Arab oil exporters, including  Saudi Arabia , Qatar and the
U.A.E., supply about a fifth of the world’s oil.  Emaar fell the most since March 29 to 3.22 dirhams. Du
dropped 2.6 percent to 2.96 dirhams, the lowest since Feb. 27.  Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  fell 0.3 percent to
7,697.70, the lowest close since March 24. The measure decreased
for a fourth day, its longest losing streak since November.  Saudi Arabia’s King Abdullah asked the stock market
regulator to investigate trading violations even if they involve
members of the royal family, Al Sharq reported on its website,
citing a letter to the regulator. An official at the Capital
Market Authority declined to comment when contacted by Bloomberg
News today.  “When the king says no one is above the law, this is
probably the ultimate credibility statement and sign of maturity
for the Saudi stock market,” said  Haissam Arabi , Dubai-based
chief executive officer of Gulfmena Investments.  Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  and Bahrain’s  measure  declined 0.3
percent. Abu Dhabi’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  slipped 0.5 percent,
while Oman’s benchmark stock  index  dropped 0.2 percent. Kuwait’s
 gauge  retreated 0.6 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  