-- Medicaid Insurers Plunge as Ohio Dumps Old Business for New
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-04-09T20:13:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/health-insurer-molina-plunges-on-ohio-medicaid-contract-loss-1-.html
Ohio’s decision to shut out  Molina
Healthcare Inc. (MOH)  and two other health plans that contract to
manage 1.5 million of the state’s Medicaid patients sent the
shares of the companies plummeting.  Molina, based in  Long Beach ,  California , declined the most
in almost seven years in intraday trading today while  Centene
Corp. (CNC)  fell the most in four years and  Amerigroup Corp. (AGP)  decreased
the most in four months.  Ohio is streamlining its Medicaid programs in an effort to
save taxpayers $1.5 billion. The health program for the poor is
funded jointly by the states and U.S. government. States are
responding to high unemployment that has pushed more people into
the program and budget shortfalls that have forced cuts.  “Ouch,” said Carl McDonald, an analyst with Citigroup
Inc. in a note to clients. “This is unwelcome news for all of
the Medicaid plans, but it is particularly problematic for
Molina, since  Ohio  was the company’s most important state.”  Molina plunged 27 percent to $25.65 at the close of New
York trading in its biggest decline since July 2005. Centene,
based in  St. Louis ,  declined  15 percent to $42.97, posting its
biggest drop in four years. Virginia Beach, Virginia-based
Amerigroup  fell  4.9 percent to $64.18.  Rare Shut-Out  McDonald  called  Ohio’s decision not to renew plans, which
have contracts running through 2012, “pretty rare.” He said it
didn’t signal that other states deciding Medicaid agreements
would rule against existing insurers.  “It probably doesn’t have much implication,” he said.
“No two states ever seem to be looking for exactly the same
thing, and we’ve found it virtually impossible to accurately
predict the Medicaid plans that will win a particular” request
for proposal.  Ohio told Molina’s local health plan that it was no longer
in the running to administer the federal-state program for the
poor after the current contract runs out at the end of the year,
the company said in an April 6 filing. Ohio was responsible for
22 percent of Molina’s premium revenue and 30 percent of profit,
Chris Rigg, an analyst with Susquehanna Financial Group, said in
a note to clients.  State Budget Shortfalls  States are still facing budget shortfalls after “bottoming
out” in 2010, according to a  report  by the  Center on Budget and
Policy Priorities , a research group based in  Washington . Thirty
states will have deficits totaling $49 billion in fiscal year
2013, according to the report. The elimination of health
coverage by employers, as well as wage losses, have put more
people into Medicaid, according to the report.  Companies like Molina are paid by states to manage benefits
for patients, steering them into cheaper services and helping
coordinate their health care.  Ohio will merge eight managed-care regions within the state
into three, part of changes that will save taxpayers $1.5
billion, the Job and Family Services Department said in a
 statement  on April 6. Centene and Amerigroup also have contracts
with the state that expire at year’s end.  Aetna Inc. (AET)  and  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)  are among the
companies selected to help administer the programs starting next
year. The losing plans are expected to protest the decision,
Rigg said in his note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  