-- Suleiman Denies Reviving Old Regime as Egypt Contest Begins
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2012-04-09T15:06:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/egypt-s-presidential-battle-kicks-off-with-focus-on-economy.html
Egypt ’s former intelligence chief
said his presidential bid isn’t an effort to restore the ousted
regime he served, as the Muslim Brotherhood’s main candidate
blamed Egypt’s economic woes on the Hosni Mubarak era.  Omar Suleiman , who was Mubarak’s deputy in the last days of
his rule, told the state-run al-Akhbar newspaper that last
year’s uprising created a “new reality” that cannot be
reversed. “The priority will be to salvage the country from the
dominant chaos,” Suleiman said, promising rapid measures to
restore stability and fight crime.  The comments, a day after presidential nominations closed,
show Suleiman laying out a law-and-order platform and seeking to
distance himself from his former boss as he prepares for
elections due to start on May 23. His entry into the race has
drawn accusations that Egypt’s ruling generals are trying to
revive the old regime. Other Egyptians have expressed fears that
Islamists, who have put forward several candidates, are seeking
to monopolize power.  The contest also takes place against a backdrop of a
struggling economy and a wave of crime. Gross domestic product
contracted last year and the central bank has spent more than
half the country’s  international reserves  since the start of
2011, as it seeks to defend the currency. A $3.2 billion
International Monetary Fund loan requested by Egypt in January
has yet to be concluded, with the Brotherhood putting up
opposition to the deal.  ‘Grave Challenge’  “We are facing a very difficult and grave challenge,”
millionaire businessman Khairat el-Shater, who is the
Brotherhood’s leading nominee for the presidency after serving
as the group’s second-in-command and chief financier. “Will we
service the  debt  or plug the deficit or feed the people and
educate them and find housing and hospitals for them?” he said
at a televised press conference.  Suleiman has denied allegations that his campaign is being
orchestrated by the military, which says it will cede power
after the presidential vote. He also said that he received death
threats from Islamists. If people “believe that those threats
can reverse my stance or the continuation of my candidacy, then
they are deluded,” Suleiman said.  ‘Revolution Will Resume’  El-Shater today criticized Suleiman’s candidacy. “I think
his entry in the race is a kind of an insult to the revolution
and to the Egyptian people because he was one of Mubarak’s main
symbols,” he told reporters, according to the state-run Middle
East  News Agency . If the vote is “rigged” then “the
revolution will resume,” El-Shater said.  Suleiman ranked fourth among the declared candidates with
the support of 8.2 percent of voters, according to a poll
published by the state-run Al Ahram newspaper. Former Arab
League Secretary-General Amre Moussa led with 31 percent, while
El-Shater trailed with 1.7 percent.  El-Shater has met with U.S. businessmen and officials and
sought to show that the Brotherhood will embrace free-market
policies. He said that Egypt’s budget deficit, forecast by the
government at around 9 percent of economic output this year and
next, means there is a need for non-government funds from Egypt
and abroad to finance development programs.  “We are for supporting the private sector, not for
ideological reasons as some will say, but because this is
necessary and there’s no other alternative,” he said at today’s
press conference. He said the first stage of any new economic
plan should be “putting out the fires” -- dealing with the
immediate needs of the people.  In a reflection of the challenges the country faces daily,
train drivers held a sit-in on the tracks of Cairo’s central
station today, bringing traffic to a halt, the private ON TV
station reported. Police personnel also demonstrated in front of
the  Interior Ministry .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden in Dubai at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 