-- Egypt Stocks Drop to 2-Month Low as Dispute Threatens IMF Loan
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2012-04-09T13:24:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/egypt-stocks-drop-to-2-month-low-as-dispute-threatens-imf-loan.html
Egypt ’s benchmark stock index, the
world’s best performer in the first quarter, fell to the lowest
in two months on concern a political dispute may threaten a loan
from the International Monetary Fund.  The benchmark  EGX 30 Index (EGX30)  fell 2.7 percent to 4,593.52,
the lowest level since Feb. 7, at the 2:30 p.m. close in Cairo.
That brings the drop in April to 8.5 percent, making the gauge
the worst globally among measures tracked by Bloomberg this
month. The index surged 39 percent in the first three months of
the year.  Orascom Construction Industries (OCIC) , the country’s biggest
publicly traded builder, lost the most in more than two weeks.  The first presidential election following the ouster of
 Hosni Mubarak  last year drew 23 candidates, including  Omar
Suleiman , a leading figure in the former leader’s regime. A
public dispute between the interim-government and parliament
threatens to derail loan talks with the IMF. The Muslim
Brotherhood’s political arm, the biggest voting bloc in the
legislature, has threatened to veto the $3.2 billion deal.  “The political front is creating a lot of chaos,” said
Teymour El-Derini, head of Middle East and North Africa sales at
Naeem Brokerage in Cairo. “The IMF deal is taking forever, and
now it might not even happen. So why would anyone want to buy
Egyptian equities at the moment?”  The value of shares traded fell to about 303 million
Egyptian pounds ($50 million) today after climbing to 837
million pounds on Feb. 14, the highest level in almost eight
months.  Orascom Construction retreated 2.8 percent, the most since
March 25, to 247 pounds.  EFG-Hermes Holding SAE (HRHO) , the investment
bank which reported an 81-percent plunge in 2011 profit, slumped
3.3 percent to 12.21 pounds, the lowest level in two months.  The market “will continue to see the weakness it has been
facing with lower volumes till something changes,” said El-
Derini.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  