-- Mel Brooks Riffs on Jewish Sons in Funniest Ad Lib: Rainer File
-- B y   P e t e r   R a i n e r
-- 2012-04-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/mel-brooks-riffs-on-jewish-sons-in-funniest-ad-lib-rainer-file.html
“I lived with my mother intimately
for 22 years and never saw the furniture. On every piece of
furniture was a sheet to keep the dust off.”  So says Mel Brooks on the “How to Be a Jewish Son” episode
of “The David Susskind Show,” aired in the fall of 1970 and
available for the first time in its entirety on DVD from S’more
Entertainment.  It’s often regarded as the funniest impromptu 90 minutes in
TV history.  Brooks, who began his career as a “tummler” (sort of a
combo emcee and social director) in the Catskills, was not alone
on the stage, although it often seems that way. Even when he’s
sitting there behaving himself, your eyes are on him.  Besides Susskind, who keeps fairly mum on the evening’s
subject despite prodding, the other Jewish sons included
comedian  David Steinberg , fashion designer Stan Herman, Goldberg
Pizzeria founder Larry Goldberg, actor George Segal (whose
 “Where’s Poppa”  is the ultimate Jewish son black comedy), and
Dan Greenburg, who was married to Nora Ephron and had recently
written the best-seller “How to Be a Jewish Mother: A Very
Lovely Training Manual.”  Impromptu Antics  Susskind, who once professed he wanted to become “the Cecil
B. DeMille of television,” clearly was unprepared for Brooks’s
antics. Clipboard in hand, scrolling agitatedly down the list of
prepared questions, he’s continually interrupted by Brooks’s
free-associative spritzes.  “I was in analysis for six years and couldn’t say a bad
word about my mother,” Brooks says when asked if he sees a
psychiatrist. “I love my mother. If I could I would go skinny-
dipping with her.”  Later he is asked about his wife Anne Bancroft, a Catholic.
Brooks says he converted to Catholicism because it’s easier to
make the sign of the cross on his chest than the star of David.  “The David Susskind Show,” like its forerunner, “Open
End,” was a product of a bygone TV era, when a talk show could
drag on until everyone was too exhausted to continue. (The title
“Open End” was meant literally).  Susskind, stiff-backed and with touch of ‘tude, had made a
name for himself interviewing everyone from Khrushchev (in 1960,
at the height of the  Cold War ) to  Martin Luther King Jr . to
Bernie Schwartz, aka Tony Curtis, another famous Jewish son, who
threatened to punch him “right on his big nose” because
Susskind described him as a “passionate amoeba.  ‘Portnoy’s Complaint’  “How to Be a Jewish Son” appeared at a transitional time
when youngish Jewish writers, actors and comics were wrestling
with the push-pull demands of assimilation.  Philip Roth ’s
“Portnoy’s Complaint” was the bible of the era, and like the
“Jewish Son” episode, was attacked by older-generation Jews
for being anti-Semitic.  Some on the show -- like Steinberg, whose father was a
sometime rabbi -- grew up in households where Yiddish was
spoken. Brooks’s mother came to America from  Russia  and,
according to him, “never learned this language, never learned
Russian either. She never learned any language.”  But she learned show-biz lingo. “Socko in  Cleveland ,
Mel,” she would say to him when he was a writer on “Your Show
of Shows.” She would be so afraid the show wasn’t funny that
she would only watch it to see her son’s opening credit and then
turn it off.  I would love to know if she ever saw “How to Be a Jewish
Son.” It’s still socko.  (Peter Rainer is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own).  To contact the writer responsible for this story:
 Peter Rainer  at  Fi1L2E@aol.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at  mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  