-- Emerging Stocks Fall to 2-Month Low on U.S. Job Growth
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   G a n   Y e n   K u a n
-- 2012-04-09T21:17:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/emerging-stocks-fall-to-2-month-low-on-u-s-jobs-north-korea.html
Emerging-market stocks fell to a
two-month low after the U.S. added fewer jobs than forecast in
March and as quickening Chinese inflation curbs speculation that
policy makers will use monetary policy to boost growth.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  fell for a fourth day,
losing 1 percent to 1,026.29 at the close in  New York , its
lowest closing level since Jan. 31. Industrial and information
technology companies had the biggest drop.  HTC Corp. (2498) ,  Asia ’s
second-largest smartphone maker, led declines among emerging-
market technology companies after posting its steepest profit
drop since listing a decade ago.  Gerdau SA (GGBR4) ,  Latin America ’s
largest steelmaker, slipped to a two-month low.  Employers in the U.S. added 120,000 jobs in March, the
fewest in five months and less than the median economist
forecast in a Bloomberg survey, the Labor Department reported on
April 6. Chinese consumer prices rose 3.6 percent last month
from a year earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said on
its website today. That was more than the median estimate of 3.4
percent in a Bloomberg survey of 33 economists.  “The data continues to bear out our view that emerging
market economic growth will continue to disappoint expectations
and this will continue to weigh on emerging-market asset
performance through the first half,”  Nick Chamie , the head of
 emerging markets  at  RBC Capital Markets  in Toronto, said by
phone. “We would expect that there would be further downside
momentum and upward pressure on volatility in the weeks to
come.”  Volatility Jumps  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has gained 12 percent this
year, while the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of developed nations added 8.3
percent. Companies on the gauge of developing nations are valued
at 10.7 times estimated profit, compared with the MSCI World’s
multiple of 12.5 times.  The IShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index  exchange-traded
fund , the most-traded ETF to track developing-nation shares,
fell 1.5 percent to $42.11 in New York. The Chicago Board
Options Exchange  Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a gauge
of options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
rose 6.2 percent to 27.96, the highest level in a month.  The  Bovespa (IBOV)  tumbled 1.2 percent to the lowest since Jan.
30. Gerdau lost 1.5 percent and rival steelmaker  Usinas
Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA  fell 1.3 percent. Gerdau
obtained 38 percent of its  revenue  from  North America  last year.  Lupatech SA (LUPA3) ,  Brazil ’s biggest oil-services company, jumped
11 percent, the biggest one-day gain since Feb. 17, after saying
that top shareholders will inject at least 350 million reais
($193 million) of fresh capital.  China Vanke Falls  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  retreated 0.9 percent.  China
Vanke Co. (200002) , the nation’s biggest listed property developer,
dropped 1 percent and Poly Real Estate Group, the second-
biggest, fell 0.6 percent.  South Korea ’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  slid 1.6 percent, the steepest
decline since Dec. 19.  North Korea  is preparing for an
underground nuclear test to follow a long-range rocket launch
scheduled for as early as this week, according to a report
compiled by South Korean intelligence officials.  Taiwan’s  Taiex Index (TWSE)  slipped 1.4 percent after the
government said it will formulate a proposal for a capital-gains
tax on stock transactions this week.  HTC dropped 6.8 percent to the lowest close since Feb. 7,
after reporting that first-quarter  net income  tumbled 70 percent
from a year earlier to NT$4.46 billion ($151 million). The
average of 17 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg was for
profit of NT$4.62 billion.  The  extra yield  investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries increased 10 basis points, or 0.10
percentage point, to 359 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Gan Yen Kuan in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  