-- Employment Index in U.S. Declines for First Time Since May
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-04-09T14:00:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/employment-index-in-u-s-declines-for-first-time-since-may.html
A measure of job prospects in the
U.S. fell in March, the first decline in 10 months, a sign
labor-market gains may decelerate.  The Conference Board’s Employment Trends Index dropped 0.2
percent to 107.3 from a more than three-year high of 107.5 in
February, figures from the New York-based private research group
showed today. The measure climbed 5.2 percent from March 2011.  The report is consistent with Labor Department data last
week that showed payroll grew in March at half the pace as the
previous month, while the  unemployment rate  fell to 8.2 percent
as workers left the  labor force .  “After five months of strong growth, the ETI declined
slightly in March,”  Gad Levanon , director of macroeconomic
research at the Conference Board, said today in a statement. He
said that the employment gains from December through January,
when payrolls advanced by 246,000 a month on average, “may not
be a sustainable trend.”  The Employment Trends Index aggregates eight labor-market
indicators to forecast short-term hiring trends. On average, the
gauge can signal a rebound in hiring as little as three months
before the fact and can predict job declines six to nine months
in advance, the Conference Board said.  Decreases in three of the index’s eight components
propelled last month’s drop. Those included a rise in the number
of Americans saying jobs are hard to get, a drop in temporary
employment and fewer companies reporting they were not able to
fill openings, the Conference Board said.  Payrolls grew by 120,000 workers last month after a gain of
240,000 in February, the Labor Department’s report showed on
April 6. The 8.2 percent jobless rate was the lowest since
January 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  