-- Kidney Failure Devices to Receive Fast-Track FDA Reviews
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-04-09T18:38:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/end-stage-kidney-disease-devices-to-get-fast-track-fda-reviews.html
A wearable artificial kidney and two
other devices to treat renal failure will get fast-track reviews
under a program U.S. regulators say can cut the time it takes to
get “breakthrough” medical technology to market.  The  Food and Drug Administration  chose the three devices --
a valve system, an implant and the artificial kidney -- from 32
applications competing to be in the expedited-review program,
the agency said in a  statement  today. The FDA proposed the
 Innovation Pathway , a priority review process for “new,
breakthrough medical devices,” in February 2011.  End-stage  kidney disease  is “a natural fit given that
patients have few options,” said  Jeffrey Shuren , director of
the FDA’s Center for Devices and Radiological Health.  Innovation Pathway can cut in half to 150 days the time for
the most-stringent review process for higher-risk devices, the
FDA said. Reviews will be shorter because the agency and device
manufacturers meet early in development to plan clinical trial
designs that will most likely result in approval, Megan Moynahan, acting associate director for technology and
innovation at the FDA, said on a conference call with reporters.  “For a small company, when you talk about shortening six
months to a year, that is significant because you’re talking
about a significant amount of capital,” said  Steve Johnson , who
works for Greenville, South Carolina-based CreatiVasc Medical
LLC, a closely held company designing a hemoaccess valve system.  Regulatory Hurdles  CreatiVasc’s device is in the first stages of development,
Johnson said on the call. Blood Purification Technologies Inc.
in  Beverly Hills ,  California , is making the wearable artificial
kidney, while the  University of California ,  San Francisco , is
working on the implantable kidney device, according to the FDA.  Device manufacturers in the program will be assigned a case
manager who will shepherd them through the development process
and bring in outside advisers to help manage scientific and
regulatory hurdles, Shuren said.  The agency has “a handful” of other kidney failure
devices on a wait list, Moynahan said. The FDA also plans to
issue a challenge to device manufacturers to treat another
disease to take advantage of the pathway, Shuren said. He
declined to specify the disease because it’s under discussion.  The agency plans to incorporate aspects of Innovation
Pathway that work well into its normal review process. The
medical device industry agreed in February to a doubling of the
fees they pay the FDA to get products reviewed over the next
five years to $595 million. The additional fees will help speed
reviews and enable more meetings with the agency during the
middle of the process to give companies time to address
concerns.  The FDA first tested the fast-track program with a brain-
controlled, upper-extremity prosthetic still in development by
the U.S. Defense Department. The department’s  Defense Advanced
Research Projects Agency  spent 120 days collaborating with the
regulator to map its development path.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  