-- Tesco Needs $1.6 Billion for U.K. Revival: Legal & General
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-04-10T10:17:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/tesco-needs-1-6-billion-for-u-k-revival-legal-general-says.html
Tesco Plc (TSCO)  needs to invest as much
as 1 billion pounds ($1.6 billion) to turn around its flagging
U.K. business, a process which may take as long as three years,
according to the U.K. retailer’s fourth-largest shareholder.  In addition to the “significant” sum required, the
supermarket chain needs to provide clarity on where the money is
being spent, the returns expected and how the grocer measures
its effectiveness, said Richard Black, a  fund manager  at Legal &
General Group Plc in  London . The investor  owns  3.99 percent of
Tesco’s shares, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The critical thing for Tesco is to get themselves back on
the front foot and I think that could be quite a material
investment,” Black said. The retailer should also consider
reining in spending on ventures which don’t align with its core
grocery business, he said by phone. Tesco announced last week
that it was closing  Tesco Cars , its used car unit, after a year
because it couldn’t offer “a satisfactory range of vehicles.”  The U.K.’s largest retailer has promised a year of
investment to lower prices, add staff and improve stores,
products and fresh food as it seeks to revive sales growth that
is trailing the market. Tesco shares have fallen 20 percent this
year, the  worst performer  in the benchmark  FTSE 100 Index (UKX) , as
investors balked at Christmas sales that missed estimates and it
forecast “minimal” profit growth in 2013.  ‘Neglected’ Business  Restoring U.K. profit margins to last year’s 6.14 percent
will be a “multi-year process” after the domestic division was
“neglected” for several years, according to Black.  Tesco spokesman Tom Hoskin said the company stays close to
investors and knows what they expect of the grocer. The chain
will set out its plans in more detail later this month.  “The investment required is materially ahead of a couple
of hundred million and if it is a small amount we will be very
skeptical if it can get any traction at all because it appears
to us the issues are long running,” Black said.  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. is Tesco’s biggest
shareholder with 5.08 percent, followed by BlackRock Inc.’s 4.96
percent holding and Norges Bank’s 4.01 percent.  Tesco is due to report full-year earnings on April 18.
Revenue at the Cheshunt, England-based company rose 2.7 percent
in the 12 weeks ended March 18, trailing an industrywide
increase of 4 percent, according to Kantar Worldpanel data.  Everyday Value  Since January, the grocer has replaced its 1 billion-pound
Value range with the Everyday Value label and announced plans to
add 20,000 staff, including a team in green uniforms at its
fresh-food aisles. Chief Executive Officer  Philip Clarke  has
assumed responsibility for the largest U.K. unit, after  Richard Brasher  announced he will leave the company in July.  “I don’t think there are any surprises so far in what’s
being done,” Jon Copestake, retail analyst at the Economist
Intelligence Unit, said of the changes, citing a focus on fresh
food at smaller competitor  William Morrison Supermarkets Plc (MRW)  and
updates to own-brand ranges at Wal-Mart Stores Inc.’s Asda.  Tesco stores are “a bit dour, a bit 1990s,” Black said.
“Morrison feels much more like an interactive experience.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  