-- Mets 3-0 and Yankees 0-3 After Major League Baseball’s 1st Week
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-04-09T04:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/mets-3-0-and-yankees-0-3-after-major-league-baseball-s-1st-week.html
The last time the  New York Mets 
started a season 3-0, they finished second in their division.
The last time the  New York Yankees  started 0-3, they won 114
regular-season games and the World Series.  There’s a lot of baseball left to play.  The Mets beat the Atlanta Braves 7-5 yesterday while the
Tampa Bay Rays won 3-0 to leave the Yankees winless through
their opening three games of the Major League Baseball season.  Jonathon Niese took a no-hitter into the seventh inning at
Citi Field in  New York  in his first start after signing a five-
year contract extension with the Mets. Niese (1-0) gave up four
runs -- two earned -- on two hits while walking four and
striking out seven batters in six innings.  The Mets led 7-0 through six innings before giving up five
runs in the seventh and eighth.  New York scored on sacrifice flies by  David Wright  and
Jason Bay, while Daniel Murphy, Scott Hairston and Ruben Tejada
contributed run-scoring doubles for the Mets. Atlanta’s Brian McCann hit the only home run of the game for the final score,
leaving the Braves winless after three games.  At Tropicana Field in St. Petersburg,  Florida , the Rays
took the lead in the first inning on a run-scoring triple by
 Matt Joyce . Carlos Pena hit a solo home run to right field in
the third and Jeff Keppinger completed the scoring with another
solo homer to left field in the sixth.  Phil Hughes took the loss for the Yankees after allowing
two runs on five hits in 4 2/3 innings. Jeremy Hellickson got
the win after giving up three hits in 8 2/3 innings for the
Rays, who are unbeaten in three games this season.  The 2007 Mets started 4-0 and wound up 88-74, in second
place in the National League East division. The 1998 Yankees
started 0-3 and finished 114-48, then beat the San Diego Padres
in four straight games for the first of three consecutive  World
Series  titles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 