-- Evan Greenberg Says Regulators Leading an ‘Unrelenting Assault’
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-04-09T17:59:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/evan-greenberg-says-regulators-leading-an-unrelenting-assault-.html
Ace Ltd. (ACE)  Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Evan Greenberg said regulators in the U.S. and
 Europe  are stymieing private-sector growth as he expands the
Swiss insurer’s operations in  Asia  and  Latin America .  “In the U.S. and much of Europe, we face an unrelenting
assault on business by government,” Greenberg said in an annual
 letter  to shareholders posted today on the Zurich-based
company’s website. “Rather than creating an environment of
certainty where business thrives, government is discouraging
risk-taking and investment.”  Greenberg, 57, joins  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  CEO Jamie Dimon
in criticizing regulators’ actions since 2008 when governments
in the U.S. and Europe used taxpayer funds to prop up businesses
as credit markets froze. Ace has expanded life insurance
operations through  acquisitions  in  Hong Kong , Korea and Malaysia
and increased policy sales in its largest business, commercial
and specialty property-casualty insurance, through units in Asia
and Latin America.  “The political and government leadership of the major
developing nations of the world is focused on wealth creation
and what it takes to build a superior capability to win,” he
said in the letter. “In the medium-to-longer term, the global
economy is in the process of rebalancing, with the center of
gravity shifting to Asia, led by  China  and, to a lesser degree,
 India , as well as Latin America.”  Ace slipped  1.2 percent  to $72.30 at 1:38 p.m. in New York.
The insurer climbed 13 percent last year, beating the 9.6
percent decline in the 22-company Standard & Poor’s 500
Insurance Index.  Dimon’s Critique  Dimon railed against “contrived” and confusing financial
rules that he said may thwart lending, in a letter to New York-
based JPMorgan’s shareholders last week. U.S. and international
officials “made the recovery worse than it otherwise would have
been,” constrained bank leverage “at precisely the wrong
time” and adopted bad and uncoordinated policy, he wrote.  Greenberg centered his critique of European regulators on
Solvency II, a set of rules designed to align insurers’ capital
reserves with the risks they take, calling the regime “overly
bureaucratic, process-oriented, costly, and, by the way,
untested.”  The U.S. system, under which insurers are regulated
primarily at the state level, has protected policyholders while
ensuring that companies “have a reasonable level of freedom to
succeed or fail,” he said. Greenberg, the son of former
 American International Group Inc. (AIG)  CEO Maurice “Hank” Greenberg,  called on the Federal Insurance Office, created as a
result of the Dodd-Frank Act, to propose an alternative to the
European regulation.  In 2010, Ace agreed to pay $425 million for New York Life
Insurance Co.’s Hong Kong and South Korean life units and about
$200 million for Malaysia-based Jerneh Insurance Bhd.  Policy sales at Ace’s commercial and specialty property-
casualty business increased 13 percent last year to $9 billion,
driven by increases in Asia and Latin America. Premiums in the
U.S. and Europe declined as the insurer faced competition and
weak economies decreased demand for coverage, Greenberg said.
Ace generates about half its policy sales in the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  