-- Facebook Agrees to Buy Instagram Photo App for $1 Billion
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-04-10T00:30:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/facebook-agrees-to-buy-instagram-photo-service-for-1-billion.html
Facebook Inc. (FB) , the biggest social-
networking service, is buying the Instagram mobile photo-sharing
application for about $1 billion in cash and stock, using its
biggest acquisition yet to lure users of mobile devices.  Instagram, owned by San Francisco-based Burbn Inc., was
valued at $500 million after raising about $60 million last week
from investors including  Sequoia Capital , said people with
knowledge of the funding who asked not to be identified because
the matter is private. The acquisition is expected to close this
quarter,  Menlo Park , California-based Facebook said today.  Instagram lets users take pictures with smartphones,
retouch them with borders and filters, and then post the images
on social networks. Founded in 2010, it has become the most
popular free photo-sharing application on  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s App Store
and boasts more than  30 million  users. Owning it may help
Facebook attract handset users and advertisers who target them,
said Rebecca Lieb, an  analyst  at Altimeter Group LLC.  “In order to monetize mobile, Facebook needs a lot more
mobile participation,” said Lieb, who is based in New York.
“What they bought with Instagram was a photo app with high
 brand recognition  and an enormous audience.”  Given Instagram’s employee base of 13, Facebook is paying
$76.9 million per person for a company that has no publicly
disclosed source of revenue. Facebook may seek an initial public
offering valuation of as high as $100 billion, people with
knowledge of the plans have said. At that valuation, Facebook
would be worth $31.3 million per each of its 3,200 employees at
the end of 2011.  Keep-Away From Google  Facebook paid a high premium in part to keep a popular
mobile tool out of the hands of a different social-networking
provider, such as  Google Inc. (GOOG) , said Ray Valdes, a research
director at Gartner Inc.  “The value really is not what Instagram is, but what
Instagram could have been in the hands of competitor,” Valdes
said. “That’s the reason why the valuation was so high.”  The deal marks the first time Facebook has acquired a
product and company with so many users, Chief Executive Officer
 Mark Zuckerberg  wrote on his profile page. The company also
announced the transaction on its website.  Facebook, which intends to raise $5 billion in the biggest
IPO of an  Internet company , says it plans to let Instagram
remain independent.  Instagram Independence  “We need to be mindful about keeping and building on
Instagram’s strengths and features rather than just trying to
integrate everything into Facebook,” Zuckerberg wrote.
“Millions of people around the world love the Instagram app and
the brand associated with it, and our goal is to help spread
this app and brand to even more people.”  Instagram was introduced in October 2010 by Kevin Systrom
and Mike Krieger. Building on its popularity among iPhone users,
last week the company added an application for devices that use
Google’s Android operating system. Systrom didn’t respond to a
request for comment on last week’s funding round, reported
previously by blogs  AllThingsDigital  and  TechCrunch .  Instagram received seed funding of about $500,000 from
Andreessen Horowitz and Baseline Ventures in 2010. It raised a
$7 million round in 2011, when it had 1.75 million users, from
 Benchmark Capital  and a group of angel investors including
Twitter Inc.’s Jack Dorsey and Quora Inc.’s Adam D’Angelo.  The startup closed its most recent financing just days
before Facebook’s purchase was announced, the people with
knowledge of the matter said.  Apple Startup Help  The purchase extends the role of Apple’s  App Store  as a
platform for building companies, said  Carl Howe , an analyst at
 Yankee Group . It may also be the largest purchase price for an
app built for the App Store, he said.  “You’re going to see valuations in app companies in
general be a little surprising,” Howe said.  Many of Instagram’s backers have close ties to Facebook,
including  Marc Andreessen , who sits on the board of the social
network, and Benchmark  general partner  Matt Cohler, who was one
of Facebook’s earliest employees and worked as a senior vice
president of  product management  there until 2008. He remains a
special adviser to Facebook CEO Zuckerberg.  Systrom himself once received a job offer from Zuckerberg
in the early days of Facebook and turned it down.  “I decided I wanted to stay in school,” Systrom  told  Fast
Company magazine last year. “That’s one of those decisions that
I look back at -- I would’ve loved to have been part of
Facebook’s growth over the years.”  Nike, Tiffany  Marketers including Nike Inc., Tiffany & Co. and Burberry
Group Plc have begun using Instagram to promote products using
photos, Lieb said. Gap Inc.’s Banana Republic unit  held  a
contest on the site asking users to submit pictures of their New
Year’s Eve outfits for a chance to win a trip to  New York  City.  “Providing the best photo sharing experience is one reason
why so many people love Facebook and we knew it would be worth
bringing these two companies together,” Zuckerberg said.  Facebook has a history of acquiring small companies with
highly-regarded talent. It has bought e-book publisher Push Pop
Press Inc. and mobile messaging app Beluga Inc. since the
beginning of 2011. It also hired the staff of location check-in
service Gowalla Inc.  “Two years ago we didn’t have a track record in
acquisitions,”  Vaughan Smith , Facebook’s director of corporate
development, said in an interview with Bloomberg last year.
“While we expected them to work well, it was still a crapshoot
how they’d turn out. We’ve built a culture that supports
entrepreneurs, and it’s working incredibly well.”  When the company filed to go public in February, it told
investors that its lack of experience in large acquisitions
could pose risks for investors.  “Our ability to acquire and integrate larger or more
significant companies, products, or technologies in a successful
manner is unproven,” the filing said.  Bloomberg LP, parent of Bloomberg News, is an investor in
Andreessen Horowitz.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  