-- Foxtel Gets Antitrust Approval to Buy Austar With Caveats
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-04-10T06:48:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/foxtel-gets-antitrust-approval-to-buy-austar-with-caveats.html
Foxtel, the Australian pay
television company part-owned by  Rupert Murdoch ’s News Corp.,
will be allowed to buy  Austar United Communications Ltd. (AUN)  after
agreeing to drop exclusive rights to Nickelodeon and National
Geographic Channel.  Foxtel,  Australia ’s biggest operator, will agree not to
purchase exclusive rights to movies for video-on-demand services
after buying its second-ranked rival, the Australian Competition
& Consumer Commission said in a statement today. The ruling
reverses the regulator’s preliminary view issued July 22 that a
deal would substantially reduce competition.  Foxtel will promise not to purchase exclusive rights to
Nickelodeon, National Geographic, the Disney Channel, ESPN and
about 60 other channels; to video-on-demand programs broadcast
by rival networks; and to most movies, the regulator said in the
statement. It will be able to purchase exclusive rights to
individual sports.  The content agreements were necessary to limit the market
power of Foxtel’s 50 percent shareholder, Australia’s largest
phone company  Telstra Corp. (TLS) , the ACCC said. Access to Foxtel and
Austar’s existing subscribers would give Telstra an advantage in
selling so-called ‘triple-play’ packages of broadband, telephone
line and Internet television services.  Austar Rises  Austar shares rose 2.7 percent to A$1.52 in Sydney,
compared with a 0.6 percent fall in the benchmark S&P/ASX 200
index. News Corp. dropped 1.7 percent to A$18.77 a share. A
court hearing due April 13 should confirm the takeover deal.  “By reducing content exclusivity, the undertakings will
lower barriers to entry and promote new and effective
competition,” ACCC Chairman Rod Sims said in a statement.  About 92 percent of Austar shareholders backed the A$1.9
billion ($2 billion) takeover in a meeting March 30. The
company’s board had agreed to be bought by its larger rival in
July after the board and biggest shareholder, billionaire  John Malone ’s  Liberty Global Inc. (LBTYA) , backed the A$1.52-a-share cash
bid.  The deal stalled since then as the regulator started a
review of the proposal and extended the deadline for a decision
at least three times to allow Foxtel to make further submissions
to gain approval.  Less Exclusivity  The ACCC said it had broadened the range of programming
subject to exclusivity regulations from its original decision,
in particular preventing the merged company from purchasing
exclusive rights to subscription video on demand for television
programs or movies and from purchasing exclusive mobile-phone
rights to Internet television content.  The decision was welcomed by both Austar, Foxtel and
Telstra in e-mailed statements.  “This is a great outcome for consumers,” Foxtel Chief
Executive Officer Richard Freudenstein said in a statement.  Foxtel has been pursuing its smaller rival since at least
March 2011 as it seeks to gain subscribers in regional and rural
areas where Austar dominates.  The regulator on March 7 began further consultation after
Foxtel said it wouldn’t sign exclusive content agreements for
Internet protocol television. It also agreed to provide access
to its signal so competitors can offer channels and services.  News Corp. (NWSA)  owns 25 percent of Foxtel, the same size stake
as  Consolidated Media Holdings Ltd. (CMJ) , while Telstra Corp.,
Australia’s largest phone company, owns the rest.  Piracy Reports  A series of articles in the Australian Financial Review
newspaper and on the British Broadcasting Corp.’s Panorama
program have said that NDS Group Ltd., a security software
developer for digital television systems, encouraged the piracy
of rival platforms at a time from 1999 to 2002 when it was
majority owned by News Corp.  That piracy damaged Austar during the period, the newspaper
reported. The company’s shares lost 97 percent from its initial
public offering during the dot-com boom in July 1999 and the end
of 2002.  NDS has said the Australian Financial Review should retract
its articles, saying they were “based on gross
mischaracterisations of the evidence” in a letter to the
newspaper’s editor on March 29.  Austar Chief Executive Officer John Porter told the March
30 shareholder meeting that any reported piracy “took place
over 12 years ago” and wouldn’t affect the 2011 offer by
Foxtel.  “There’s no relationship between those activities and the
value we see in Austar today,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  