-- Gartman Sees Risk of Equity Retreat, Owns Shippers
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-04-09T20:30:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/gartman-sees-risk-of-equity-retreat-owns-shippers.html
Dennis Gartman , an economist and
newsletter editor, said he abandoned his bullish view of stocks
in March because of the possibility the market will retreat.  “The only things that I own at this point are a few
shipping companies and a little natural gas, and I have those
completely hedged with S&P futures,” Gartman, the editor of the
Suffolk, Virginia-based Gartman Letter, said today in an
interview on Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance” with
Tom Keene and Ken Prewitt.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  declined 0.7 percent last
week, failing to build on the biggest first-quarter gain since
1998. The measure slumped 1.1 percent to 1,382.20 today after
the U.S. government’s monthly tally of  job creation  in March
missed economists’ projections. Gartman joins strategists at the
biggest Wall Street firms in predicting that the rally will
stall.  “I had been quite bullish until about three weeks ago, and
then I went to the sidelines,” he said. “I’m market net
neutral, fearful” that the market may fall 5 percent to 8
percent, he said.  Strategists see the index ending 2012 at 1,362, according
to the average of 11 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey.  Gartman said companies should distribute excess funds to
shareholders rather than continuing the current pace of stock
buybacks. Dividends would be better than repurchasing shares, as
buybacks have historically been poor investments for companies,
he said.  ‘Making Acquisitions Elsewhere’  “They can’t figure out what to do better with their own
business, so they end up buying back shares of their own company
or making acquisitions elsewhere,” Gartman said. “It’s a way,
they suspect, of increasing earnings per share over time.
History doesn’t bear that out. I wish they wouldn’t do it.”  Stock buybacks among  S&P 500  companies dropped 23 percent
to $91.5 billion in the fourth quarter of 2011, falling for the
first time since the second quarter of 2009, preliminary data
from S&P showed on March 28.  Amgen Inc. (AMGN) ,  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and
1,971 other U.S. companies repurchased $397 billion of stock
last year, while they issued $169 billion of new equity, data
compiled by Birinyi Associates Inc. and Bloomberg show. The pace
of equity buybacks was the fastest in four years.  Companies are returning record amounts to shareholders. In
March,  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  announced its first dividend since 1995 and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. increased its payout after the  Federal
Reserve  reviewed its financial strength. Both the S&P 500 and
its total-return version reached 12-year lows on March 9, 2009.
They have since risen 107 percent and 120 percent through April
5, respectively.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  