-- Gasoline Slides to Three-Week Low on U.S., China Growth Concerns
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2012-04-09T20:00:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/gasoline-declines-on-concern-that-u-s-china-growth-may-slow.html
Gasoline slid to a three-week low as
slower job growth in the U.S. and accelerating inflation in
 China  raised concern that global demand for fuel may shrink.  Futures fell on the first trading day after an April 6
Labor Department report showed that the U.S. added the fewest
jobs in five months in March. China’s  inflation  accelerated more
than forecast last month. U.S. gasoline demand year-to-date is
5.6 percent below a year earlier, according to MasterCard Inc.’s
SpendingPulse.  “The biggest issue out there is the jobs report, as well
as concerns about the Chinese economy slowing down,” said  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston.
“There’s no doubt that gasoline demand continues to track lower
than last year due to higher prices and consumers changing their
habits.”  Gasoline for May delivery tumbled 4.38 cents, or 1.3
percent, to $3.2967 a gallon on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , the lowest settlement price since March 15. Stock
exchanges and the Nymex were closed in  New York  and London on
April 6 for Good Friday.  Chinese consumer prices rose 3.6 percent from a year
earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said today. That was
more than the median 3.4 percent estimate in a Bloomberg News
 survey  of 33 economists.  The U.S. added 120,000 jobs last month, fewer than the
205,000 projected in a Bloomberg News survey. The  unemployment
rate  fell to a three-year low of  8.2 percent , as people left the
workforce. The participation rate, the share of working-age men
and women with jobs or seeking employment, fell to 63.8 percent
from 63.9 percent in February.  Best Performer  Gasoline has climbed 23 percent this year, making it the
best performer in the Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24
commodities. Prices surged amid tensions over  Iran’s nuclear
program , refinery shutdowns and the Federal Reserve’s pledge to
keep  interest rates  low until late 2014 to boost growth.  “The market took the jobs report negatively,” said  Andrew
Lebow , a senior vice president at Jefferies Bache LLC, a futures
commission merchant in New York. ‘The market was way too long
based on Middle East concerns and the belief there would be’’ a
third round of quantitative easing by the Fed, he said.  Nuclear negotiations between Iran and the five permanent
United Nations Security Council members plus Germany will take
place starting April 14 in Istanbul, European Union spokesman
 Michael Mann  said yesterday.  Hedge Funds  Hedge funds increased bullish gasoline bets, or net long
positions, by 5,600, or 6.3 percent, to 94,139 contracts in the
seven days ended April 3, according to the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission’s Commitments of Traders report on April 6.  Regular gasoline  at the pump, averaged nationwide, fell 0.2
cent to $3.927 a gallon, according to AAA, the nation’s biggest
motoring club. Prices have risen 20 percent this year and are
4.7 percent above a year earlier.  May-delivery heating oil fell 2.33 cents, or 0.7 percent,
to settle at $3.1459 a gallon on the Nymex, the third loss in
four sessions. Prices have gained 7.2 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  