-- Gingrich Couldn’t Cede Republican Race to Santorum
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-04-09T17:22:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/gingrich-couldn-t-cede-republican-race-to-santorum.html
The biggest what-if scenario of  Rick Santorum ’s presidential bid is whether an exit by Newt Gingrich
weeks ago would have allowed the former Pennsylvania senator to
overtake front-runner  Mitt Romney  in the Republican race.  After Santorum, 53, emerged as the Romney’s chief rival,
his supporters urged Gingrich, 68, to end his candidacy to
consolidate the anti-Romney vote. Gingrich’s refusal has
political roots reaching back to their careers in the U.S.
House, say other Republicans and a former Gingrich aide.  Gingrich, first elected to the House from  Georgia  in 1978,
views himself as “kind of the intellectual godfather” for
insurgents who spurred the chamber’s Republican leaders -- long
in the minority -- to be more combative in the 1980s, said Jack
Howard, an ex-aide to Gingrich who is now a Washington lobbyist.  The Gingrich approach helped lead the party to its first
House majority in 40 years in the 1994 elections. Santorum, an
upset winner of a Pennsylvania House seat in 1990, was among the
younger Republicans who gravitated to Gingrich, then the House
minority whip, and adopted his tactics.  ‘Star Pupil’  “In some ways, Santorum was his star pupil,” said Howard.  It is that past, Howard and others say, that offers clues
to why Gingrich hasn’t withdrawn in this year’s presidential
race, even as he has finished behind Santorum in almost every
nominating contest since February.  For someone with Gingrich’s political stature, giving way
to another candidate is difficult, said Republican
Representative Tom Cole of  Oklahoma , who has stayed neutral in
the primaries.  Gingrich “is going to look at pretty much anybody else and
say, ‘Who are you?’” Cole said.  An exchange between Gingrich and Santorum during a Jan. 19
candidate debate in Charleston,  South Carolina , provided a
glimpse of their respective views of their political pasts.  “Long before Rick came to Congress, I was busy being a
rebel” and “developing a plan to win the majority in the
Congress,” Gingrich said.  “You did have a lot of plans,” Santorum said to Gingrich.
“I worked with you on those,” including the successful 1994
campaign that propelled Gingrich to the House speakership and
Santorum to the Senate, where he served two terms before his re-
election defeat in 2006.  Congressional ‘Scandal’  Santorum also said to Gingrich that, as a House member, he
had done “something you never did, which is blew the lid off
the biggest scandal to hit the Congress in 50 years.”  Santorum referred to “Rubbergate,” the practice of
letting lawmakers overdraw their House checking accounts without
penalty. A group of Republican freshmen including Santorum and
current House Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio , known as the “Gang
of Seven,” used daily one-minute speeches to denounce what they
depicted as a misuse of the House Bank.  The check overdrafts didn’t cost taxpayers money and were
written by members of both parties. Santorum and his colleagues
said the practice highlighted a culture of privilege allowed by
Democratic leaders. The Almanac of American Politics referred to
Santorum at the time as part of the “noisy opposition”  Gingrich Speeches  Gingrich, as a junior House member, had similarly taken to
the floor to scold Democrats on policy and ethical issues.  “It was difficult after Newt became whip” to do “the
things we had done in the ‘80s, so the Gang of Seven largely
took up that role,” said former Pennsylvania Representative
 Robert Walker , a lobbyist who heads Gingrich’s presidential
campaign committee.  Gingrich may have seen something of himself in Santorum,
said Cole, who in the early 1990s was executive director of the
 National Republican Congressional Committee .  “Santorum’s always been a little bit of a rebel,” and
Gingrich saw him “as a kind of useful, energetic young
lieutenant and rabble rouser,” said Cole.  A spokesman for Santorum’s campaign didn’t respond to a
request for comment.  Gingrich’s campaign referred questions to Walker, who said
Gingrich was staying in the race “to lay out the conservative
agenda” and to offer “an alternative” to Romney to Republican
National Convention delegates.  There isn’t “any resentment on Newt’s part that Rick has
gone out and carved out his own leadership” role, Walker said.  Santorum’s Sweep  Santorum established himself as the main alternative to
Romney when he swept Feb. 7 contests in  Minnesota ,  Colorado  and
 Missouri . He then came within 3.2 percentage points of beating
Romney in the front-runner’s native state of  Michigan  on Feb.
28, and held his own in 10 contests decided on Super Tuesday,
March 6.  Gingrich “can either be a kingmaker or a spoiler because,
to unite conservatives, Gingrich would have to suspend his
campaign and endorse” Santorum,  Richard Viguerie , a Republican
activist, wrote in a March 7 statement.  As Gingrich ignored such pleas, Romney defeated Santorum in
primaries March 20 in  Illinois  and April 3 in  Wisconsin .
Pennsylvania’s April 24 primary looms as a test that could end
Santorum’s candidacy, and yesterday Gingrich said on “Fox News
Sunday” that Romney is “far and away” the most likely
Republican nominee.  The what-if-Gingrich-dropped-out scenario remains
conjecture because it can’t be proven Santorum would have gotten
Gingrich’s votes, said Peter A. Brown, assistant director of the
Hamden, Connecticut-based Quinnipiac polling institute.  “It is one of those imponderables that we won’t ever
know,” Brown said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  