-- Greetfeld Predicts Stocks Rally After Calling 2011 Slump
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h   a n d   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2012-04-10T16:04:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/greetfeld-predicts-stocks-rally-after-calling-2011-s-drop.html
When European equity strategists at
the world’s largest investment banks forecast a rally in 2011,
 UniCredit SpA (UCG) ’s Tammo Greetfeld said they were wrong. He was
vindicated as stocks tumbled the most in three years.  He now predicts that the Euro Stoxx 50 Index will climb to
2,700 by the end of 2012, a 16 percent surge from current
levels, as the economy and company earnings improve. That is
triple the average projection for a 5.7 percent gain from 17
strategists polled by Bloomberg News.  While at the end of 2010 counterparts from  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  to JPMorgan Chase & Co. were calling for a mean 12
percent rally in stocks, the Euro Stoxx 50 ended the year 17
percent lower as the region’s sovereign-debt crisis worsened,
sending borrowing costs in  Spain (GSPG10YR)  and  Italy (GBTPGR10)  to euro-era records.
The gauge posted its  best first quarter  since 2006 this year as
U.S. economic data topped estimates and the  European Central
Bank  lent $1.3 trillion to financial institutions in the region.  “Life is easier within the crowd than outside,”
Greetfeld, 47, said in a phone interview from his office in
Munich on April 5. “But of course, in the end, the most
important thing is to be as close to reality as possible.
Emotionally it is easier to maintain a positive out-of-consensus
opinion than to stick to a cautious out-of-consensus view.”  Four-Month Hiatus  Greetfeld is returning from a four-month hiatus after a
record third-quarter loss at Milan-based UniCredit forced
 Italy ’s biggest bank to reduce costs by closing its western
European cash-equities business and cutting jobs, restricting
its research output. He joined a new cross-asset strategy team
after UniCredit fired 130 people in sales, trading and research
in November.  The  Euro Stoxx 50 (SX5E)  climbed 3.3 percent this year through
last week while the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of U.S. shares
rallied 11 percent. The gains will probably continue as the
ECB’s three-year lending program, known as the longer-term
refinancing operation, boosts demand for stocks, U.S. economic
data continue to improve and analyst estimates for company
earnings turn positive, the strategist said.  The Euro Stoxx 50 dropped 3 percent to 2,321.53 at the
close of trading in  London  today, the lowest in three months,
after a report on April 6 showed U.S. employers added fewer jobs
than forecast in March.  Favor Germany  Greetfeld, who has worked in investment bank research for
20 years and wrote his economics PhD thesis on the credibility
and sustainability of the European monetary union, continues to
caution his clients on the risks emanating from the region’s
debt crisis. Investors should favor German stocks and shun those
in  Spain  to take advantage of a divergence in economic and
earnings growth across  Europe , he said.  The  DAXK Index (DAXK) , a German equities gauge that strips out
gains from dividends, has soared 14 percent in 2012 while
Spain’s IBEX 35 has slid 11 percent. The Iberian nation’s
economy will shrink 1.2 percent this year, according to a
Bloomberg survey of economists. That compares with forecasts for
a 0.7 percent expansion of the German economy.  “The German equity market is our favorite among the euro-
zone equity markets,” Greetfeld said. “It has a better
relative earnings trend.”  Debt Crisis Uncertainty  At the end of 2010, he said equity investors would face
“major uncertainty” from the euro-area debt crisis and
“uncharted territory” in U.S. monetary policy during 2011. He
gave a 2011 year-end index target for the Euro Stoxx 50 of
2,900, which implied a 4.2 percent gain. By Feb. 24, 2011, when
Bloomberg polled 12 bank strategists, UniCredit’s target
signaled a loss for the year of 1.9 percent, the only negative
prediction. The average in the survey, including his forecast,
was for a gain of 8.2 percent.  “From early on, we had a theme,” said Greetfeld. “This
crisis is not just like a short-term crisis that occupies
markets, then everything goes back to normal immediately. But
rather that this would be a crisis that would change many
factors that impact the euro-zone equity markets in a more
structural and longer lasting way.”  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s Graham Secker and Ronan Carr have taken
Greetfeld’s place as the most bearish strategists this year.
European stocks may tumble 7 percent through December as
governments and banks cut debt and policy makers fail to offset
a slowdown in growth, they said last November. Morgan Stanley
hasn’t reviewed that call even after the Euro Stoxx 50 climbed
this year.  ‘Poor Man’s Easing’  “What surprised us was that the ECB had a significant
change of heart and the LTRO, which we thought was a poor man’s
quantitative easing, was perceived to be much stronger than we
anticipated,” Secker said in a phone interview from London on
April 3. “We may need to raise our target, but we’ve taken the
view that the economic growth outlook is still not supportive of
risk assets and liquidity injections will prove temporary
support rather than something more sustainable.”  The market is also moving in an opposite direction to that
forecast by Gerald Moser at Goldman Sachs on Jan. 13. He
predicted that stocks in Europe would slump 10 percent as the
region’s debt crisis harms the economy, before recovering in the
second half of 2012.  Goldman Sachs Forecasts  Moser advised holding fewer financial shares than are
represented in benchmark gauges just as the  Stoxx Europe 600
Banks Index (SX7P)  began an 11 percent rally through the start of
April. That was 5 percentage points more than the Euro Stoxx 50
during that period. Goldman Sachs declined requests from
Bloomberg News for an interview with someone in its equity-
strategy team.  The average of 2012 year-end forecasts for European indexes
from 17 banks and brokerages on March 21 implies a 4.4 percent
advance from today’s levels, according to a Bloomberg News poll.
Five of the estimates, including those from Morgan Stanley,
Societe Generale SA and Exane BNP Paribas, call for losses.  The rally this year has pushed the  price-earnings ratio  on
the Euro Stoxx 50 to 9.4 times estimated earnings, Bloomberg
data show. That’s still 11 percent below its five-year average.
Estimates for full-year earnings on the gauge increased last
week for the first time in 2012, estimates compiled by Bloomberg
show.  “2012 should be a positive year for equities and we focus
on the question of how to benefit from the chances without
losing sight of the risks,” Greetfeld said. “If we look
through to the end of 2012 and take into account the positive
UniCredit GDP outlook for the global growth environment, then
this clearly argues for a positive year for the euro-zone equity
market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  