-- Grisham Throws Curve in Baseball Tale: Books
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   S h r i b m a n
-- 2012-04-09T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/grisham-throws-curve-in-baseball-tale-dickey-s-knuckler-books.html
Joe Castle, a minor-league baseball
phenomenon suddenly elevated to the majors, debuts with three
home runs in his first three appearances at bat. He goes on to
hit safely 15 consecutive times.  Warren Tracey, a journeyman pitcher with a sour
disposition, beans Castle in his 38th game.  The episode ruins both men’s lives, ending one career and
tarnishing the other. It’s the centerpiece of John Grisham’s
stirring baseball novella, “ Calico Joe ” (Doubleday, $24.95).  Grisham is a masterly storyteller, and he delivers this one
with the smoothness of a big-league slider. The years go by and
the dyspeptic pitcher is dying. The doomed batter is a near
recluse, living with his mother in  Arkansas , doing little more
than pulling weeds and raking the dirt at the high-school ball
field named in his honor.  But there is another victim: the pitcher’s son, Paul, who
knows that his father, who had a 7-7 record, also had a bad
temper. Paul was in the stands when Castle, coming off a 4-for-4
game and with 21 homers, was smacked by the pitch.  Years later Paul wants to make things right, or at least do
the right thing, and decides that the two principals in this
baseball drama should meet before his father meets his maker.  So sitting on folding chairs in the high school ballpark,
facing the pitcher’s mound, the men confront each other.  “With their shoulders almost touching, they sit for a
moment and stare out beyond the mound,” Grisham writes, “their
thoughts known only to themselves.” The pitcher apologizes. The
batter responds:  “It’s ... OK ... it’s ... OK.”  It’s a breathtaking scene.  R.A. Dickey  There’s another pitching story of merit this season. It’s
the tale of an All-American college pitcher, a top free-agent
draft choice who ends up spending seven seasons with the minor-
league Oklahoma City RedHawks -- reaching the age of 31 and
being “darn tired of being mediocre.”  So R.A. Dickey -- yes, the same R.A. Dickey who had a 3.28
earned-run average with the Mets last season -- took on the
despised stepchild of pitches, the knuckleball.  “I am defiant,” writes Dickey, a onetime literature
major. “I am going to outwork every human being on the planet.
I am going to do whatever it takes to make it.”  From the Mound  “ Wherever I Wind Up : My Quest for Truth, Authenticity and
the Perfect Knuckleball” (Blue Rider Press, $26.95), written
with Wayne Coffey, is the story of what Dickey does to make it
and how, Tim Tebow-style, a sturdy faith in God is part of the
quest.  At times he feels like “a used resin bag,” which is to
say “completely expendable.” He almost signs to play in  Korea .
The view from the mound is, well, hopeless.  Not all baseball stories work out, but this one does.
Eventually Dickey gets to the majors. Last year he pitched
nearly 210 innings for New York. He had 134 strikeouts. In his
case, fear did not strike out.  Today we think we know the meaning of the phrase “major
league” and we think of baseball as a settled thing, with two
leagues, standard contracts, a players’ union and congressional
protection. It wasn’t always that way -- and it probably
wouldn’t be that way had it not been for an all-but-forgotten
entity that failed.  That entity was called the Federal League and it survived
(but didn’t exactly flourish) for two seasons nearly a century
ago.  Forging Modern Baseball  In “ The Battle That Forged Modern Baseball ” (Ivan R. Dee,
$39.95), Daniel R. Levitt tells how, in the summers of 1914 and
1915, teams in smaller cities such as Buffalo,  Kansas City  and
Indianapolis, plus a bunch of large cities that already fielded
American and National League teams, mounted a challenge to the
established order.  That challenge was eventually turned back, and the Federal
League receded to the mists of time. The bitter battle that the
established leagues fought in the courts and in the press
defeated what Levitt calls “the last, best chance” that
professional sports would “develop along a different path.”  (David M. Shribman is executive editor of the Pittsburgh
Post-Gazette. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
David M. Shribman at  dshribman@post-gazette.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 