-- Icahn Sues Amylin Pharmaceuticals Over Board Election
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2012-04-09T21:04:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/icahn-sues-amylin-pharmaceuticals-over-rule-on-board-vote-1-.html
Amylin Pharmaceuticals Inc. was sued
by billionaire investor  Carl Icahn  over a corporate bylaw that
hamstrings investors from pursuing a proxy fight over a rejected
a $22-per-share takeover offer by Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.  Icahn contends that Amylin’s directors should be barred
from enforcing a rule requiring advance notice of candidates for
board seats since the drugmaker failed to make Bristol-Myers’s
bid public before the filing deadline. Amylin officials turned
down the $3.5 billion offer in February, two people familiar
with the bid told Bloomberg News on March 28. The company has
never confirmed the offer.  Amylin directors have unfairly “rejected a request to
reopen the time for stockholders to provide notice” that they
seek to nominate candidates for board seats, Icahn, Amylin’s
third-largest shareholder, said in the lawsuit filed today in
 Delaware  Chancery Court.  Icahn, who has targeted at least seven drug companies in
the past five years, threatened to start a proxy fight over the
Amylin board’s rejection of the Bristol-Myers offer and urged
the drugmaker to pursue a sale.  “We believe Mr. Icahn’s lawsuit is without merit,” Alice Izzo, an Amylin spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement.
“Amylin’s board is fully aware of its fiduciary duties and is
committed to always acting in the best interests of all
stockholders.”  Shares Fall  Amylin declined 1.7 percent to $23.72 at 4 p.m.  New York 
time. The shares are up 54 percent since March 27, the day
before Bristol-Myers’s bid was reported.  Icahn has been critical of San Diego-based Amylin’s
directors, saying in an April 4 letter that the board is
“dysfunctional and is not operating in a manner that enhances
 shareholder value .”  He cited Amylin’s public offering of 13 million common
shares and its issuance of  stock options  to company executives
at $16 a share.  Icahn, who held 14.4 million Amylin shares as of Dec. 31,
gained board representation in 2009 after running a proxy
contest in which he criticized the company’s ability to return
value to shareholders with the diabetes drug  Byetta .  Icahn contends Amylin officials set a Jan. 25 cutoff for
submitting names of potential candidates for company board
seats. The deadline expired before news about the Bristol-Myers
offer broke, the billionaire said.  Investors’ Choices  Amylin investors are being unfairly denied the opportunity
to decide “whether to elect a board that will actually pursue a
sale of the company or whether to re-elect the current board,
which has refused to pursue such a transaction,” Icahn’s
lawyers said in the suit.  “To afford stockholders this choice, the advance-notice
bylaw” should be waived, Icahn’s attorneys added.  Icahn’s lawyers noted that Amylin executives haven’t
officially set the company’s annual meeting date, but are
telling “brokers that it intends to hold the meeting May 11,”
according to the suit.  Amylin’s 11-member board is elected annually, company
officials said in an April 2011 filing with the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission.  The case is Icahn Partners LP v.  Amylin Pharmaceuticals
Inc. (AMLN) , CA 7404, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Meg Tirrell in New York
at   mtirrell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 