-- Mickelson’s Run at Fourth Masters Title Is Derailed by Miscue
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-04-09T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/mickelson-s-run-at-fourth-masters-title-is-derailed-by-miscue.html
A risk-taking left-hander put on the
ceremonial green jacket as the winner of the Masters Tournament
yesterday. It just wasn’t  Phil Mickelson , the golfer that
oddsmakers expected to claim a fourth Masters title at the start
of the final round.  While lefty  Bubba Watson  beat  Louis Oosthuizen  on the
second hole of a playoff yesterday, Mickelson’s chances for the
win were damaged by a triple-bogey 6 on the par-3 fourth hole.  “I’m certainly going to be disappointed that I wasn’t able
to get it done here because I had a great opportunity,” said
Mickelson, who finished in a four-way tie for third place, two
shots out of the playoff, at Augusta National Golf Club in
Augusta, Georgia.  Mickelson, 41, entered the final day one shot behind 54-
hole leader  Peter Hanson  and a 5-4 favorite of Las Vegas
oddsmakers to join  Jack Nicklaus ,  Arnold Palmer  and  Tiger Woods 
as the only golfers with four or more Masters wins.  Mickelson had rebounded from a triple-bogey during the
opening round, when he started the tournament with a 2-over 74,
yet couldn’t overcome his early mistake yesterday.  His errant tee shot on the 240-yard sixth hole sailed well
left of the green and landed in a stand of bamboo. The left-
hander then attempted his next two shots right-handed to advance
the ball, moving it slightly on the first swing. Mickelson’s
fourth shot came up short of the green in a bunker, leading to
the worst score on the hole during the tournament.  Mickelson, whose 6-under par 30 over the final nine holes
in the third round was one above the Masters record, fell short
in his attempt at another late charge yesterday. He had birdies
on the final three par-5 holes, yet wasn’t able to pick up
further ground as Watson and Oosthuizen finished 10-under par.  Lefty Winners  Watson joined Mickelson and Mike Weir as the only left-
handed golfers to win the Masters when he parred the second
extra hole after hooking a shot out of the trees onto the green
to set up the clinching putt.  “If you watch Phil Mickelson, he goes for broke,” Watson
said. “I play the same way. I always attack. I don’t go for the
center of the greens. I go for the amazing shot.”  Mickelson has long expressed his love for the Masters and
was on hand for the start of competition four days ago, when he
was in the crowd on the first tee at 7:40 a.m. to watch the
ceremonial opening tee shots by Nicklaus, Palmer and  Gary Player 
-- more than five hours before his starting time.  First Major  Augusta National was the site of Mickelson’s breakthrough
in 2004, when he beat Ernie Els by one shot to end a decade that
featured 17 top-10 finishes at the majors. He followed that win
with the  PGA Championship  win in 2005 and Masters victories in
2006 and 2010, becoming one of the sport’s most popular players.
Thousands of fans followed Mickelson around the course yesterday,
some urging him on with shouts of “We love you, Phil” and
“Bring it home, Phil.”  “It’s certainly disappointing not getting it done, not
being able to convert the opportunities on the back nine, not
being able to electrify the crowds and move up the
leaderboard,” Mickelson said. “It doesn’t mean that I didn’t
enjoy myself, that I didn’t enjoy the opportunity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in Augusta,  Georgia , at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  