-- Microsoft Inspired by London Tube Seeks Sleeker Designs: Tech
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2012-04-09T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/microsoft-inspired-by-london-tube-seeks-sleeker-designs-tech.html
A dozen top  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) 
designers convened in a conference room at their company
headquarters in February 2010 and studied a collage of product
screen shots plastered along a 40-foot wall.  People who were there said that while the gadgets and
software looked nice by themselves, they appeared to have little
in common when viewed all at once.  “It felt like we didn’t really know what our soul was or
our design ethos,” said Sam Moreau, who oversees Windows
design. “When we put it all up on the wall, it became amazingly
evident that we didn’t have a voice.”  Moreau and the 11 other managers in that room are racing to
give the company’s products a more cohesive -- and alluring --
design. Drawing inspiration from signs in hubs like the  London
Underground  that use simple symbols to orient travelers, the
 Metro design  uses bright colors and basic shapes to help users
navigate phones, tablets and computers. The quest to use design
to boost sales is made more urgent as Microsoft plays catch-up
in tablets and phones to  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Google Inc.  “It’s a really good thing that Microsoft finally stepped
up and created a design language that’s their own,” said Mark
Rolston,   chief creative officer  at Frog Design Inc., which
designed some of Apple’s early products, such as the  Apple IIc 
case. “They did ape existing products too much. They never aped
out in the open, they just quietly longed to be respected in the
way Apple is. But they will only get respect when they step out
on their own.”  Phones, Tablets, Xboxes  Microsoft, based in Redmond,  Washington , will showcase
Metro in its Windows 8 software, due to be released this year
for tablets and personal computers, and is considering weaving
Metro into the hardware of the Xbox gaming console. Metro is
already featured in Xbox and Windows Phone software.  Metro does away with Microsoft’s traditional operating
system design, with its rows of clickable icons and applications
that open in window-shaped boxes bedecked by tool bars and drop-
down menus. Metro’s  start screen  boasts boldly colored, touch-
enabled square and rectangular tiles for each application --say,
a Web browser or an online store. Navigable by touch, the
applications fill the screen and the start-page tiles update
automatically with new information, such as a weather forecast.  It reflects a philosophy intended to put emphasis on
information, rather than ornamentation.  Design Matters  “It’s a very gutsy move,” said Gadi Amit, principal
designer at  NewDealDesign , the San Francisco-based design agency
behind products like the  Slingbox  video player and the  Fitbit 
activity tracker. “In two-three years people will look at it
and say this is actually a major shift in design strategy.”  In an industry once dominated by large, beige office
computers, design has become increasingly important for
consumers who purchase devices for use during leisure time and
sport them like fashion accessories, said Steve Kaneko, who has
been a Microsoft designer for two decades and attended the 2010
meeting. Microsoft needed to sharpen its design and be seen less
as a follower to contend with companies such as Apple that have
won praise for the look and feel of products, Rolston said.  Apple has become the world’s  most valuable company  in part
because of the allure of products characterized by sleek design
and easy-to-use features.  Google (GOOG) , with a Spartan home page,
became the world’s top Web search provider as Yahoo! Inc. and
Microsoft buried their search tools in cluttered portal pages.  Mouse at MoMA  Over the almost three decades that Microsoft has made
hardware, its products have won many design awards, including
eight  International Design Excellence Awards  last year. A
Microsoft mouse designed by Kaneko is in the permanent
collection at the  Museum of Modern Art  in  New York .  Still, the company has failed to establish a reputation
among consumers for excellent design. Many products looked
focus-grouped, as though too many opinions went into their
design, Kaneko said.  The Kin phone, for instance, won design awards, yet it
flopped with consumers and spent just two months in stores.
Windows Phone won a  gold  International Design Excellence Award
for interactive product experiences in 2011, as well as the
People’s Choice award from the same organization that year.
Still, Microsoft accounted for only 3.9 percent of the U.S.
market for smartphone operating systems at the end of February,
according to  ComScore Inc.   With Metro taking over so many Microsoft products, it’s
critical that users like it. Microsoft Chief Executive Officer
 Steve Ballmer  refers to key releases as “bet-the-company”
products. Metro has become a bet-the-company design, said
Kaneko.  “We don’t flinch about that commitment,” he said.  ‘Limiting Minimalism’  Rolston, of Frog Design, said the design is too imposing
and will inhibit outside developers from attempting to build a
broad range of applications that work with the software.  “They tried to create an interface that put content
first,” he said. “Ironically, what happens is that the design
itself is so aggressive and unique you can’t help but see it
first, and the minimalism can become limiting.”  Young Kim , industrial design manager for Microsoft’s
hardware division, said it will take a while to change consumer
perceptions.  “That trust in the brand is something we’re going to have
to earn,” he said.  Microsoft plans to expand Metro beyond phones, tablets and
personal computers. Kaneko is working on how to translate it to
the Office package of business-productivity applications. The
company’s hardware designers are also considering the
implications for mice, keyboards and the next version of the
Xbox console, Kim said.  Adding Staff  The challenge there is translating the clean, modern
aesthetic of Metro without being overly literal in copying the
software interface -- say, by producing an impossible-to-hold,
square mouse, Kim said.  “They way we designed Metro is to set us up for the next
10, 20 years,” said  Albert Shum , a Nike veteran who oversees
design for Windows Phone. Shum’s team has expanded too, doubling
to about 60 people in three years, with hires from places like
the  Seattle Art Museum  and Frog Design.  Metro got its name in 2009, when Shum and eight designers
locked themselves into their studio in downtown Seattle’s
 Pioneer Square  to work on the design for the next iteration of
Microsoft’s mobile phone. Shum said he wants his team to draw on
influences as varied as top sushi chefs and classic furniture
designers. He wants customers to view Microsoft they way they do
 Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  -- as a place to get a consistent, unique and
appealing kind of experience with each visit.  Subway, Traffic Signs  Like the Windows Phone designers, Moreau’s group also draws
inspiration from subway, airport and traffic signs. The team’s
conference room has an entire wall covered with images from the
New York City  subway ,  London Underground  and airports across
 Asia .  Another early influence is even more unlikely: Microsoft’s
Zune music and video player. While it met with tepid demand, it
nonetheless garnered praise for its design.  Since the advent of the graphical user interface, designers
have tried to help customers understand computers by modeling
graphics on tasks outside the world of technology. That explains
why the icon for discarding files became a trash can, and
Windows began using drop shadows and transparencies to give them
real-world depth. Windows 8 Metro does a complete turn with its
flat squares and lack of shadows and shading.  Changing Perceptions  The company, with help from the  Pentagram  design agency,
also  overhauled  the Windows logo. It replaced the older one that
looked a bit too much like a flag with a simple, blue and white
window that Amit terms “poetry.”  “Windows 8 is maybe a turning point,” said Amit. If
Microsoft can use the market-dominating operating system to get
critical mass for their new look, “they really have a chance to
change the perception of Microsoft’s design.”  Microsoft’s same design leadership team, plus six new
members, met at  Seattle ’s Space Needle earlier this year and put
the product lineup up on its wall for a second look.  “It’s started to feel like you can see us,” Moreau said.
“You can see the design ethos we are working on starting to
appear.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  