-- Dallara Says Too Much Austerity May Hurt Europe Recovery
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-04-09T18:19:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/iif-s-dallara-says-europe-still-needs-a-bigger-crisis-fund.html
Charles Dallara , head of the
Institute of International Finance who negotiated a Greek debt
swap on behalf of private bondholders, said too much focus by
regulators on austerity could hurt  Europe ’s economic recovery.  “We are continuing to see a contraction of credit in many
parts of Europe,” Dallara said today in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance Midday” with  Tom Keene .
“This is not consistent with the rebound in the European
economy that we all agree is needed.”  Governments across Europe are paring public spending as
they grapple with debt and banking crises that have led to
bailouts for  Greece , Ireland and Portugal. Short-term cuts “may
be overdone” and could hurt growth in the region, Dallara said.  “We are calling for a rebalancing of some aspects of the
current strategy in Europe to ensure that there is not an excess
of near-term austerity,” said Dallara, managing director of the
Washington-based IIF, which represents more than 450 firms.  The IIF also urged European policy makers to expand their
crisis fund, calling recent decisions on the amount available to
fight the region’s debt turmoil “disappointing.”  Increasing the size and flexibility of crisis-fighting
tools is “essential for reassuring markets that the euro area
has the resources and commitment to assist member countries
facing contagion risks and difficulties in accessing  capital
markets ,” Dallara wrote in a letter prepared for next week’s
meetings of the  International Monetary Fund  and of the  World
Bank .  Creditor Countries  Euro-area finance ministers last month decided that 500
billion euros ($656 billion) in fresh money would go along with
300 billion euros already committed to create an 800 billion-
euro defense against the two-year-old crisis. The decision
stopped short of a bolder step considered before the meeting as
a German-led coalition of creditor countries rebelled against
imposing further burdens on bailout-weary taxpayers.  The IIF believes that the European Stability Mechanism
needs “a significant” boost, “especially in view of the
outstanding commitment of the euro area to continue supporting
members under financial assistance programs until they regain
 market access , provided their programs are kept on track,”
Dallara wrote.  The Washington-based International Monetary Fund, which is
co-financing the bailouts in Greece, Portugal and Ireland, has
been seeking $600 billion from member nations to be able to
increase lending by $500 billion.  Dallara’s letter was addressed to Singapore Finance
Minister  Tharman Shanmugaratnam , who chairs the IMF’s steering
committee, and to Polish Central Bank Governor Marek Belka, his
counterpart on the World Bank’s steering committee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  