-- Illinois Is Pension Basket Case You Forgot About
-- B y   J o s h   B a r r o
-- 2012-04-09T23:01:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/illinois-is-pension-basket-case-you-forgot-about.html
Rod Blagojevich  is in prison. But
the worst things the former governor did to  Illinois (BEESIL)  weren’t
even illegal.  This month, the  Teachers’ Retirement System  of the State of
Illinois made a  dire announcement  to its members. TRS, which
covers most public-school teachers in Illinois outside Chicago
and has more than 360,000 members, said the following:  “If the General Assembly does not continue to provide all
of the funding called for in state law, calculations done by TRS
actuaries show that the System could become insolvent as soon as
2030. Preventing insolvency may include significant changes for
TRS -- new revenues must be generated and if they are not
benefits may have to be reduced.”  The teachers’ fund is one of the country’s worst-financed
statewide pension systems,  reporting  that it is only 47 percent
funded. And that’s if you buy the system’s rosy accounting
assumptions, including that it will achieve 8.5 percent annual
returns on its assets. This level is tied for the most
aggressive investment assumption among state pension funds in
the country, and the fund has had to get creative in an effort
to meet it.  Pensions & Investments  magazine says it has the
fourth-riskiest pension investment portfolio in the U.S., with
less than 17 percent of its investments in fixed income and
cash.  Teachers Left Hanging  Perhaps the teachers’ fund will be fabulously lucky, and
rich investment returns will cover pension costs so taxpayers
won’t have to. But the odds of that are vanishing. Indeed, the
system’s  funding status  is so poor that it achieved a 23.6
percent return on investments in 2011 and still managed to shave
only $2 billion off its $46 billion unfunded liability. And it’s
not as though the fund can make such gangbuster returns
consistently -- in 2009, it returned negative 22.7 percent.  Closing the TRS funding gap -- and the gap at the State
Retirement Systems of  Illinois , which is only 36 percent funded
-- will depend on taxpayers’ willingness to start paying far
more than they ever did for pensions. And as the TRS statement
makes clear, that is far from a sure bet, meaning that
pensioners may see their benefits cut.  Public pensions are a problem all over the country, but
they are a special problem in Illinois, mostly because the state
has failed, for decades, to make proper contributions into its
pension funds. Illinois, more than most states, has used its
pension funds as a vehicle for off-balance-sheet borrowing,
financing high spending without high taxes by making unfinanced
pension promises.  No individual is more personally responsible for allowing
this to happen than Rod Blagojevich, who became governor in 2003
and who was impeached in 2009. Illinois is not unique because it
has struggled to manage its budget in the recession;  many states 
have similarly failed to act responsibly in the last four years.
It is much more notable as a place that let its fiscal problems
spiral out of control while the economy was strong, leaving an
unusually daunting mess for lawmakers to clean up in the
recession.  Of course, he didn’t act alone. Illinois made bad pension
decisions before he was elected, and the Legislature approved
his worst ideas. But the governor pushed other lawmakers to give
in to their most irresponsible impulses.  One of his first initiatives was a  pension-obligation bond 
plan. For years, Illinois had been struggling to come up with
enough cash to make required payments into its pension system
(even though its law stating what was “required” was more lax
than what was recommended by the  Governmental Accounting
Standards Board ). Blagojevich proposed that the state shore up
its pension funds by issuing $10 billion in bonds and investing
the proceeds in the pension fund.  No Bond Windfall  In principle, nothing is wrong with pension-obligation
bonds. They simply swap one form of indebtedness (unfunded
pension obligations) for another (bond debt). But in practice,
when a jurisdiction issues these bonds, it is usually up to no
good, and this was no exception.  The pension funds would invest the proceeds in stocks and
bonds with a target investment return of 8.5 percent a year, but
the interest on the bonds was only about 5 percent. This was
marketed as a free lunch, but it wasn’t one: Interest payments
were fixed but Illinois taxpayers were on the hook to pay if the
assets underperformed, which they did.  A second problem was that the governor used the expected
free lunch to justify putting only $7.3 billion of the $10
billion in bond proceeds into the pension fund. The remaining
$2.7 billion went to pay bond interest and to cover part of the
state’s required pension contributions in 2003 and 2004 --
freeing up money to spend on other initiatives, including an
aggressive expansion of Medicaid and the  Children’s Health
Insurance Program . This meant that when you added together the
unfunded liability and the outstanding balance on the bonds, the
plan widened Illinois’s overall funding gap for pension
benefits.  Even after the proceeds from the pension-obligation bonds
had run out, Blagojevich and the Illinois Legislature continued
to underpay the required pension contributions, by $300 million
in 2005, $1.2 billion in 2006 and $1.1 billion in 2007.  As the recession hit, the Legislature started passing
budgets it knew were unbalanced, causing the state to run out of
cash mid-year and run up billions of dollars in unpaid bills.
Periodically, the state would issue general-obligation bonds to
pay off the bills backlog, again shifting pension liabilities
into bond debt.  Even as the state budget fell apart and he spent
profligately, Blagojevich, a Democrat, steadfastly opposed
increases in the income or sales tax. He even alleged that his
impeachment on the grounds of having tried to sell  Barack Obama ’s Senate seat was a plot to get him out of the way so that
the Legislature could raise the income tax.  Income Tax Increase  Starting after the 2010 election, with Blagojevich gone,
the Legislature did raise the income tax, from a flat 3 percent
to a flat 5 percent. But Illinois’s budget situation was so dire
that even a 66 percent increase, which raised general fund
revenues by about 20 percent, still left an annual gap of more
than $1 billion.  In 2010, Republicans gained seats in the Legislature and
have blocked any further general-obligation bond issuances to
close budget gaps. As a result, the unpaid bills backlog has
reached more than $8 billion, and there is no plan to pay it
off. Because of the tax increase, at least the backlog is no
longer growing very much, and vendors can expect to be paid on a
rolling basis after waiting about five months.  But the state hasn’t taken the steps it needs to reform its
precarious pension system. Michael Madigan, the Democratic
speaker of the state Assembly, has belatedly become an advocate
for aggressive pension reform, but Governor  Pat Quinn  and
public-employee unions stood in his way through 2010 and 2011.
The state did sharply reduce benefits for workers hired after
2010, but material savings from those changes won’t materialize
for decades, and the state used those estimated savings to shave
a few hundred million dollars off its annual required pension
contributions in the near term.  Much of the current trouble would have existed with or
without Blagojevich. But when fiscal times get tough, it falls
to the governor to tell the Legislature “no.” In the middle of
this decade, while neighbors like  Indiana (BEESIN)  were getting their
fiscal houses in order, Blagojevich was the one telling the kids
in the Legislature to eat all the candy they wanted and stay up
as late as they felt like. And that has left lawmakers with a
much bigger mess to clean up now.  (Josh Barro is a contributor to Forbes.com and a fiscal
policy analyst based in  New York City . The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View.   Today’s highlights: The View editors on why the U.S. should
modernize  food-safety rules  and offer support to the political
opposition in  Venezuela .  Jeffrey Goldberg  on the  Holocaust
hypocrisies  of Guenter Grass. Ramesh Ponnuru on why Barack Obama
won’t offer a serious  budget proposal . Gary Shilling on why
 consumer spending  is strong.  To contact the writer of this article:
Josh Barro at  jbarro@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net  