-- Israel-Iran History, Holocaust Perverted in Grass’s Poem
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2012-04-09T23:10:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/israel-iran-history-holocaust-perverted-in-grass-s-poem.html
Guenter Grass, the German
writer and recipient of the  Nobel Prize  in Literature,
brought forth last week an odious little poem that focuses
on the threat to world peace posed by the Jewish state, and
congratulates its author for the courage to point out this
truth.  The poem,  published  in the German newspaper
 Sueddeutsche Zeitung  and elsewhere, was titled “What Must
Be Said,” which is quite a vainglorious title. There is
very little in the world that is safer (or less novel) than
criticizing Israel in a European newspaper.  In this poem, Grass suggests that Germans haven’t been
saying “what must be said” about the various sins of the
Jews. Of course, many post-Nazi German intellectuals, and
intellectuals across  Europe , have been saying quite nasty
things about Jews and the Jewish state for some time,
without noticeable consequence. (No fatwas have been issued
against European critics of Jews, and no opponent of  Israel 
has been murdered for his criticism.)  The German historian Ernst Nolte argued in a 2004
speech that “the only difference between Israel and the
 Third Reich  is Auschwitz,” a statement exceeded in
intemperance by Grass’s fellow Nobel Prize recipient, the
late Portuguese novelist Jose Saramago, who once compared
Ramallah, the de facto capital of the Palestinian  West
Bank , to Auschwitz, and who accused Jews of worshipping a
“ spiteful ” god.  Waffen SS  Grass, in his writing, shows himself to be a man tired
of hearing about the Holocaust, tired of thinking about the
Holocaust, tired of carrying around the moral burden of the
Holocaust. This is in some ways an understandable feeling
for young Germans, at least, to hold. They didn’t commit
the deeds, and would like the world to judge them for their
actions, not those of their parents and grandparents.  Grass, however, is a former member of the Waffen SS,
and being a former member of the Waffen SS means having to
say you’re sorry. Unfortunately, all the harshness directed
against Grass after he revealed this fact in 2006 -- six
decades afterward -- seems to have made him angry at the
SS’s victims. Thus, our poem.  “What Must Be Said” is interesting for what it says
about the mind of Guenter Grass, but it is more interesting
for what it says about the manner in which some
intellectuals think about Israel and  Iran . By extracting
the self-pity, self-aggrandizement and guilt-expiation from
“What Must Be Said” and leaving only the politics, Grass’s
thinking is clear. The short version of his message: Israel
may one day soon commit nuclear genocide against the people
of Iran.  “It is the alleged right to the first strike / That could
annihilate the Iranian people/ Subjugated by a loud-mouth /
And guided to organized jubilation / Because in their
sphere of power / It is suspected, a nuclear bomb is being
built.”  Perhaps it reads better in the German, or perhaps
Grass is simply T.S. Eliot’s inferior in anti-Semitic
poetry, but put aside the poem’s aesthetic shortcomings and
consider the idea advanced in the first two lines: That
Israel, which in reality is contemplating targeting six to
eight nuclear sites in Iran for conventional aerial
bombardment, in fact wants to annihilate the Iranian people
in a “first strike.”  This is, of course, delusional. Not even the Iranian
regime seems to believe this. To make yourself believe that
Israel is seeking to murder the 74 million people of Iran,
you must make yourself believe that the leaders of the
Jewish state outstrip  Adolf Hitler  in genocidal intent.  Holocaust Guilt  Grass goes on to suggest that Holocaust guilt is
making  Germany  complicit in a crime not yet committed by
Israel. He writes of the German government:  “With nimble lips calling it a reparation, it declares / A
further U-boat should be delivered to Israel / Whose
specialty consists of guiding all-destroying warheads to
where the existence / Of a single atomic bomb is unproven.”  He is referring to several submarines provided to
Israel by Germany. These submarines, which can be armed
with nuclear-tipped missiles, are a component of Israel’s
second-strike deterrent capability. The German government
has provided them to Israel to discourage a second
Holocaust from taking place. Unlike Grass and his fellow-
travelers, German leaders still seem to understand that it
isn’t Israel that threatens Iran’s existence, but Iran that
threatens Israel’s.  Grass isn’t the only prominent European to perform a
complete inversion of cause-and-effect in his attempt to
demonize Israel. So let’s be clear: Israel is contemplating
an attack on Iran’s nuclear facilities because the Iranian
regime openly labels Israel a cancer that must be
eradicated and because Iran is the prime sponsor of Muslim
terrorists who seek Israel’s physical elimination. The goal
of an Israeli attack would be to deny the Ayatollahs the
means of bringing that about. (Whether this is a wise
course of action, for Israel or for the U.S., which is also
contemplating an attack, is another matter.)  On Iran’s threats to end the Jewish state -- which was
built on the ashes of the German Holocaust -- Grass is
tellingly silent.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
national correspondent for The Atlantic. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The View editors on why the U.S. should
modernize  food-safety rules  and offer support to the
political opposition in  Venezuela . Ramesh Ponnuru on why
 Barack Obama  won’t offer a serious  budget proposal . Gary
Shilling on why  consumer spending  is strong and Josh Barro
on why pensions in  Illinois  are in such dismal shape.  To contact the writer of this article:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 