-- Israel Bonds Fall as Pipeline Blast Spurs Electricity Price Bets
-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 2012-04-09T12:42:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/israel-bonds-fall-as-pipeline-blast-spurs-electricity-price-bets.html
Israel ’s government bonds declined,
pushing yields higher for the first time in four days, as a
blast on a  gas pipeline  from Egypt to Israel spurred bets
electricity costs will keep rising and stoke inflation.  The yield on the 4.5 percent bond due January 2015 rose two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 2.92 percent at the
2:45 p.m. close in Tel Aviv. Israeli markets closed early due to
the Passover holiday. The two-year break-even rate, the yield
difference between the inflation-linked bonds and fixed-rate
government bonds of similar maturity, advanced three basis
points to 287. That implies an average annual inflation rate of
2.87 percent in the period, at the higher end of the Bank of
Israel’s 1 percent to 3 percent target range.  An explosion today hit a pipeline that exports the natural
gas from  Egypt ’s  Sinai Peninsula  to Israel and Jordan, the 14th
blast on the line since the ouster of President Hosni last year,
the Middle East  News Agency  reported today. The  Public Utility
Authority  cited gas shipment disruptions as one factor behind a
9 percent rise in electricity prices at the end of March.  “As we are continuing to see disruptions in the gas supply
from Egypt there is less of a chance future increases in
electricity prices will be canceled,” said  Jonathan Katz , a
Jerusalem-based economist for HSBC Holdings Plc. “A continued
increase in these prices will also push other prices higher such
as water.”  The yield on the benchmark Mimshal Shiklit bond due January
2022 increased for the first time in three days, gaining one
basis point to 4.64 percent. Accelerating inflation erodes the
value of fixed-income securities.  Inflation Risk  Consumer prices are likely to increase 2.9 percent in the
coming year, Katz said.  Inflation in the next four quarters will reach 2.6 percent,
according to the central bank’s research department. Israel
Electric Corp.’s ilAA- rating was put on credit watch negative
at Standard & Poor’s Maalot on April 5 due to “liquidity
pressure” because of the lack of gas supply from Egypt and
shrinking domestic reserves.  The shekel fell 0.3 percent to 3.75 a dollar at 3:30 p.m.
in  Tel Aviv . One-year  interest-rate swaps , an indicator of
investor expectations for rates over the period, fell one basis
point to 2.54 percent.  The  Tel Aviv Bond 40 Index (TEL-B40) , a measure of inflation-linked
and fixed-rate corporate bonds, fell for the first time in three
days, declining less than 0.1 percent to 265.59.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in Tel Aviv at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  