-- J&J Working to Boost Supply of Cancer Drug Doxil by September
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-04-09T19:26:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/j-j-working-to-boost-supply-of-cancer-drug-doxil-by-september.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  said it’s
exploring ways to resume making the cancer medicine Doxil by
September after a production shutdown at a supplier last year
contributed to a shortage.  Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH (BING) ’s Ben Venue Laboratories factory
in  Ohio  stopped production in November after regulators
questioned the product  quality . Ben Venue said it may resume
operations by the end of 2012. J&J plans to transfer the
manufacturing to another supplier, said Lisa Vaga, a spokeswoman
for the  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based company.  J&J, the world’s second-largest seller of health-care
products after Pfizer Inc., may be able to boost its supplies of
the drug sooner by having Ben Venue formulate the medication,
then transfer it to another company for the filling and
packaging of the product, Vaga said in a telephone interview.  “We anticipate health authority approval would be in the
September time frame, with limited amount of Doxil available
shortly thereafter,” she said. “This is a method for us to try
to get Doxil back before the late 2012 time frame when the whole
facility would be back up and running.”  The company has been parceling out the remaining supply of
the drug to patients under the Doxil C.A.R.E.S. Physician Access
Program. J&J sent a  letter  to doctors last week asking them to
re-enroll patients and certify that they are benefiting from the
drug. New patients aren’t being accepted into the program, the
company said in the letter on its website.  The  Food and Drug Administration  gave  Caraco Pharmaceutical
Laboratories Ltd. (CPD)  permission to import an unapproved drug from
 India  with the same active ingredient as Doxil in February to
ease pent-up demand for the medication, used to treat ovarian
cancer and multiple myeloma. The agency allows temporary
importation of unapproved drugs in rare cases when there is a
shortage of medications critical to patients.  Caraco, a generic-drug maker based in Detroit, will
temporarily import the drug Lipodox from its Mumbai-based
parent,  Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (SUNP)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  