-- Japan Current Account Moving to Surplus Adds Support for Yen
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p   a n d   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2012-04-09T01:43:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/japan-current-account-swinging-to-surplus-adds-support-for-yen.html
Japan  swung to a current-account
surplus in February after a record deficit in January, lending
support to a currency that officials have sought to weaken to
aid exporters and economic growth.  The  excess  in the widest measure of trade was 1.18 trillion
yen ($14.5 billion) the Ministry of Finance said in Tokyo today.
The median estimate of 25 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
was for a surplus of 1.12 trillion yen.  The yen is rebounding even after interventions by the
 finance ministry  and monetary easing by the  Bank of Japan  helped
to bring the currency down from October’s post World War II high
against the dollar. Governor Masaaki Shirakawa’s policy makers
are meeting today and tomorrow to decide whether the world’s
third-biggest economy needs more support as it recovers from
last year’s earthquake and tsunami.  “There is no doubt that the yen is still too strong for
companies to become optimistic, which leads to less investment
and weak growth,” said  Yoshimasa Maruyama , chief economist at
Itochu Corp. in Tokyo.  “The BOJ will have to be mindful about
the recent yen appreciation.”  The yen traded at 81.48 per dollar, up 0.2 percent as of
10:40 a.m. in Tokyo, strengthening for a fourth day. The
Japanese currency hit a postwar high of 75.35 per dollar in
October before expanded monetary stimulus by the central bank on
Feb. 14 aided weakening.  Economic Forecast  Gross domestic product may have expanded an annualized 1.7
percent in the first quarter after a 0.7 percent contraction in
the final three months of last year, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of analysts.  “I hope the BOJ will strengthen monetary easing to leave
the yen somewhere between 85 and 90,”  Masayuki Kichikawa ,
Tokyo-based chief economist at Merrill Lynch Japan, said before
today’s data was released.  Japanese stocks dropped for a fifth day as U.S. employers
added fewer jobs than forecast, damping the outlook for a
recovery in the world’s biggest economy and prospects for Asian
exporters. The Nikkei 225 Stock Average fell 1.3 percent as of
10:41 a.m. in Tokyo.  Sony Corp. (6758) , Japan’s biggest consumer-
electronics exporter, lost 2.8 percent as the yen gained.  Even as Japan’s trade swung back from a deficit, February’s
surplus remained 31 percent less than a year earlier, on
weakness in exports and import costs swelled by elevated  oil
prices  and the idling of all but one of the nation’s 54
reactors.  Debt Burden  Declines in the surplus highlight the risk that Japan may
switch this decade to needing overseas funding to service the
nation’s debt burden, a change that could push up bond yields.
At the same time, the 437.3 billion yen deficit in January was
partly seasonal, with any surplus usually smaller in that month
than in the rest of the year.  Japan’s income surplus, the portion of the current account
that includes earnings from overseas investment, is a buffer
against the nation slipping into continued deficits. The income
surplus tends to be higher in February and March due to interest
and dividend payments repatriated before the end of the
financial year on March 31.  “It’s highly likely Japan will continue to have a surplus
for the coming three to four years,” Merrill’s Kichikawa said
before today’s report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Sharp in  Tokyo  at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net ;
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  