-- Japan Closer to Restarting First Reactors Since Fukushima
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 2012-04-10T09:08:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/japan-closer-to-restarting-first-reactors-since-fukushima.html
Japan ’s government approved new
safety measures for nuclear reactors, taking a step toward
restarting the first atomic plant since the Fukushima disaster
and to avert electricity shortages this summer that could set
back the country’s economic recovery.  Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  and three of his Cabinet
members -- the group of four with the final say on reactor
restarts -- held talks last night and approved safety measures
to allow switching on two Kansai Electric Power Co. reactors.
The units have passed so-called stress tests introduced after
the Fukushima meltdowns.  The government will now take the plan for approval by
authorities in  Fukui prefecture , about 95 kilometers (59 miles)
northeast of Osaka, where the reactors are located in  Kansai
Electric ’s Ohi plant. Once local approval is secured, the final
decision to restart the two reactors goes back to the Cabinet
group. That decision may come early next month, Kyodo News
reported, citing the ruling party’s policy chief  Seiji Maehara .  The Kansai Electric safety measures meet “what the Nuclear
and Industrial Safety Agency requested,” Industry Minister
 Yukio Edano , one of the Cabinet’s group of four, said at a news
conference streamed over the Internet after the meeting last
night.  Kansai Electric, the Japanese utility most dependent on
nuclear power at 49 percent, has warned that if all its reactors
stay offline during peak summer electricity demand, power
shortages may follow.  Power Cuts  The company’s electricity output without nuclear power may
be 19.6 percent short of peak demand this summer if Japan is hit
by a heat wave similar to the one in 2010, the trade and
industry ministry said in a  statement  yesterday.  The company serves the Kansai area of western Japan that
covers an area the size of  Belgium , has an economy worth $1
trillion -- about the size of  Mexico ’s -- and is home to the
cities of Osaka and Kyoto as well as factories of  Sharp Corp. (6753) 
and  Panasonic Corp. (6752)   Companies such as  Komatsu Ltd. (6301) , the world’s No. 2 maker of
construction machinery, have said they will move factories
overseas if electricity supply isn’t guaranteed.  Kansai Electric’s president Makoto Yagi met Edano in  Tokyo 
yesterday on the safety standards.  “Though I think we have improved safety to prevent an
accident similar to Fukushima, steps to increase safety never
end,” Yagi said after the meeting.  ‘Not Enough’  The government and Kansai Electric “fell short of
scientifically and quantitatively explaining why some measures
don’t need to be taken right now and what alternative safety
measures have been secured,” Hironobu Unesaki, a nuclear
engineering professor at  Kyoto University , said by phone
yesterday. “Their explanations are not enough.”  All but one of Japan’s 54 reactors are now offline after
the March 11 earthquake and tsunami last year crippled  Tokyo
Electric Power Co. (9501) ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear station.  The reactors, which previously supplied 30 percent of
Japan’s electricity, have either been closed by the March 11
disaster, government order or not allowed to restart after
regular maintenance shutdowns. Nuclear reactors are closed every
13 months in Japan for maintenance and to replace uranium fuel
rods.  Hokkaido Electric Power Co.’s No. 3 reactor at its Tomari
nuclear plant is the last reactor running and is due to come
offline for regular maintenance on May 5, the company said in a
statement on its website on March 26.  ‘Rushing to Restart’  “It is so obvious the government is rushing to restart the
Ohi reactors at any cost before the Tomari unit is shut,”
Tomoko Murakami, a Tokyo-based nuclear analyst at the Institute
of Energy Economics, Japan, said by phone today.  The shutdown of the Tomari No. 3 reactor would become a
symbolic defeat for those promoting nuclear power, because Japan
would become nuclear free, she said. “But it’s really stupid if
that’s the reasons behind the rush.”  Japan’s liquefied natural gas imports rose to a record in
2011 as utilities have been forced to rely on fossil fuel power
plants to replace idled reactors.  Fuel costs at nine regional utilities that own atomic
plants may more than double to about 7 trillion yen ($86
billion) in the year ending March 2013 if reactors remain shut,
according to the report by the trade and industry ministry.
Kansai Electric’s fuel bills may rise by 800 billion yen to
about 1.1 trillion yen, it said.  The Fukushima nuclear meltdowns poisoned an area about half
the size of  New York City  with radiation fallout. About 160,000
people were forced to evacuate and many areas around the plant
will be uninhabitable for decades.  Jobs Needed  Japan’s central government has typically sought approval
from local authorities to restart reactors, though it has no
legal requirement to do so.  The Mayor of Ohi said safety measures taken so far at the
plant are “sufficient,”  Kyodo News  reported, citing his
comments at a press conference yesterday.  “It’s questionable to let the plant restart, but it’s a
very difficult problem,” said Masataka Tamagawa, a Buddhist
priest in Obama city, about 10 kilometers from the Ohi plant.
“Many people in the city have a job related to Kansai Electric.
It’s not easy to find work if the plant goes.”  Toshitaro Akai, a 66-year-old resident of Ohi town said
life and safety are more important than a job.  “I’m against the restart of the nuclear plant; respect for
human life should take priority over any other things and
nuclear power is dangerous,” said Akai. “Japan should switch
to other energy sources such as thermal and solar. If that means
higher electricity bills, it can’t be helped.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Masatsugu Horie in  Osaka  at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  