-- Jefferson County Accuses BNY Mellon of Taking $584,742 From Fund
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-04-10T04:36:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/jefferson-county-files-counterclaims-against-bny-mellon.html
Jefferson County accused  Bank of
New York Mellon Corp.  of taking $584,742 from a construction
fund without authorization to pay lawyers and expert witnesses
in a lawsuit against the bankrupt  Alabama  county.  The county yesterday filed its counterclaims in the suit
the bank brought in U.S.  Bankruptcy Court  in Birmingham.
Jefferson County said BNY Mellon should be held liable for
conversion and violating bankruptcy court procedures.  “It is difficult to imagine a more adverse use of the
county’s own money,” the county said in its filing.  The claims are related to a case that will be heard
tomorrow in bankruptcy court where BNY Mellon, the trustee for
Jefferson County’s sewer bondholders, is seeking to force the
county to turn over all sewer revenue except for the money
needed to pay expenses listed in the bond contract, known as an
indenture.  The county argues that under the  bankruptcy code , it has
the power to withhold money for items opposed by the trustee,
including “project expenditures” to keep the sewer system up-
to-date with changing laws or industry standards.  In November, Jefferson County sought court protection after
county, state officials, a receiver for the sewer system and
bondholders failed to implement a tentative agreement to cut
sewer debt by about $1 billion, increase rates and assistance
from the Alabama Legislature.  Jefferson County’s bankruptcy was opposed BNY Mellon, the
trustee for more than $3 billion in sewer debt, and creditors
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , which owns more than $1 billion of the
sewer warrants,  Bank of America Corp.  and Assured Guaranty
Municipal Corp.  BNY Mellon spokesman Kevin Heine didn’t return a call
yesterday seeking comment on the county’s counterclaims.  The case is In re Jefferson County, 11-05736-9,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of Alabama (Birmingham.)  The adversary case is The Bank of New York Mellon v.
Jefferson County, 12-16, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern
District of Alabama (Birmingham.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 