-- Jobs Show Economy Not Yet Self-Sustaining, El-Erian Says
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-04-09T14:59:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/jobs-show-u-s-economy-not-yet-self-sustaining-el-erian-says.html
Gains in U.S. employment last month
that were less than economists forecast indicate it’s too early
to declare the economy self-sustaining, according to Pacific
Investment Management Co.’s Mohamed A. El-Erian.  “We have structural problems all over our economy,”
El-Erian, chief executive officer at Pimco in  Newport Beach ,
 California , said in an “In the Loop” interview with Betty Liu
on Bloomberg Television. “The duration of unemployment is at
record highs. When it comes to hiring for future business,
companies are still hesitant.”  Treasuries rallied on April 6 after the Labor Department
reported that U.S. employers added 120,000 jobs in March after a
revised increase of 240,000 in the previous month. The median
forecast of economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a gain
of 205,000. The  unemployment rate  fell to 8.2 percent, a
three-year low, as people left the workforce.  Yields (USGG10YR)  on 10-year notes decreased 13 basis points after the
payrolls figures in the biggest daily drop since Oct. 31. The
yields slid as much as three basis points today to 2.02 percent,
the lowest level since March 12.  Europe  is also a risk to the economic outlook, El-Erian
said. Treasuries gained last week partly on concern the debt
crisis is worsening as rising borrowing costs make it harder to
finance deficits in nations such as Spain.  “No one knows what Europe is going to look like in five
years,” El-Erian said. “There’s caution out there, and it’s
understandable.”  Pimco lowered its $252 billion  Total Return Fund’s (PTTRX) 
proportion of U.S. government securities to 37 percent of assets
in February from 38 percent in the prior month, according to a
report on the company’s website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Betty Liu in New York at 
 bliu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Cox  at 
 pcox16@bloomberg.net  