-- JPMorgan Trader Iksil Fuels Prop-Trading Debate With Bets
-- B y   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n ,   B r a d l e y   K e o u n   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-04-09T21:08:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/jpmorgan-trader-iksil-fuels-prop-trading-debate-with-bets.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  trader Bruno Iksil’s outsized bets in credit derivatives are drawing
attention to a little-known division that invests the company’s
reserves and fueling a debate over whether banks are taking
excessive risks with federally insured and subsidized money.  Iksil’s influence in the market has spurred some
counterparts to dub him Voldemort, after the Harry Potter
villain. He works in London in the bank’s chief investment
office, which has assembled traders from across Wall Street to
its staff of 400 who help oversee $350 billion in investments.
While the firm describes  the unit ’s main task as hedging risks
and investing excess cash, four hedge-fund managers and dealers
say the trades are big enough to move indexes and resemble
proprietary bets, or wagers made with the bank’s own money.  The trades, first reported by Bloomberg News April 5,
stirred debate among U.S. policy makers over the Easter-holiday
weekend as they wrangle over this year’s implementation of the
so-called Volcker rule, the portion of the Dodd-Frank Act that
sets limits on risk-taking by banks with government backing. The
law passed after the collapse of the subprime mortgage market
triggered the worst financial crisis since the  Great Depression. (INDU)   “I wouldn’t be surprised if the pro-Volcker folks used
this as a test case,” said Douglas Landy, a partner at law firm
Allen & Overy LLP who is representing Canadian banks in opposing
a current draft of the rule.  Merkley, Miller  Senator  Jeff Merkley  criticized the transactions in a
statement that called for the rule’s prompt implementation,
while Representative  Brad Miller  said they show why related U.S.
laws should apply internationally.  Joe Evangelisti , a spokesman for New York-based JPMorgan,
declined to comment on Iksil’s specific transactions, and Iksil
didn’t respond to phone messages and e-mails seeking comment.
Neither Iksil nor JPMorgan have been accused of wrongdoing, and
the full extent of his trading and the bank’s total risk of
loss, or total gain, on his investments isn’t known.  Authorities will need more information from JPMorgan, the
biggest  U.S. bank  by assets, to discern the precise purpose of
Iksil’s transactions, said Clifford Rossi, an executive-in-
residence at the University of Maryland’s Robert H. Smith School
of Business.  “It clearly calls attention to the Volcker issue,” said
Rossi, who previously was a managing director at Citigroup Inc.  Competitive Issues  Arthur Levitt , the former chairman of the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission, said banks may be required to reveal
more specifics about their derivatives holdings in order for
regulators to enforce the Volcker rule.  “That’s unfortunate,” Levitt said today in an interview
on Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance” with Ken Prewitt
and  Tom Keene . “That raises all kinds of competitive issues.”  Levitt is a board member of Bloomberg LP, the parent of
Bloomberg News, and a senior adviser to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Harvey Pitt , also a former SEC chairman, said he would ask
JPMorgan to explain the trades and then have the agency report
to the public.  “Any time any trader can be dominant in the marketplace,
that has to raise appropriate regulatory concerns,” Pitt said
today in a phone interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“InBusiness With Margaret Brennan” program. “That means the
markets can be influenced by a single actor, and that is not the
way our markets ought to operate.”  Dimon’s Letter  JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , 56, sent a
38-page  letter  to shareholders last week, saying he agrees with
the Volcker rule’s intent to eliminate “pure” proprietary
trading and ensure market-making won’t jeopardize banks. Still,
as with derivatives laws, the rule must be written so that it
doesn’t put U.S. banks at a global disadvantage, he said.  “We cannot and should not be in a position where the rule
affects U.S. banks outside the United States but not our foreign
competition,” he wrote.  Iksil drew attention from market professionals in recent
months as trading accelerated in a group of credit-default-swap
indexes created before and during the 2008 financial crisis.
Until then, transactions had been dwindling as  Wall Street  banks
stopped creating structured debt that the indexes were used to
hedge against. Investors use credit-default swaps to shield
themselves from losses on corporate debt or to speculate on a
firm’s creditworthiness.  ‘London Whale’  The trader became such a big client of credit-derivatives
dealers that some started calling him Voldemort, the Harry
Potter book-series villain so powerful he simply was referred to
as “He Who Must Not Be Named,” said one  fund manager , who
asked not to be identified because his firm does business with
JPMorgan. Iksil also has been dubbed the “London whale,”
another trader said.  Iksil joined JPMorgan in 2005, according to his  career-
history record  with the U.K. Financial Services Authority. He
worked at the French investment bank  Natixis (KN)  from 1999 to 2003,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Public records showing
Iksil’s date of birth couldn’t be located. One person who has
done business with Iksil said he’s in his late 30s.  When a group of hedge-fund traders last year bet that a
cluster of companies in one of the indexes wouldn’t default
before contracts expired in December, Iksil was taking the
opposite view, according to four market participants at  hedge
funds  and banks, who spoke on condition of anonymity because
they aren’t authorized to discuss the transactions.  Concentrated Risks  Iksil’s bet won out, and the hedge funds faced losses of 25
percent, when American Airlines parent AMR Corp. filed for
bankruptcy less than a month before the insurance-like swaps
matured, the market participants said. The trades were made in
so-called tranches of the index, which take concentrated risks
on the member companies.  This year, Iksil has been betting on an  index  of 121
companies that all had investment-grade ratings when the
benchmark was created in September 2007, the market participants
said. Trading in that index surged 61 percent the past three
months, according to data from Depository Trust & Clearing Corp.  The net amount of wagers on the index, which is tied to the
creditworthiness of companies such as Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and
now-junk-rated bond insurer MBIA Insurance Corp.,  soared  to
almost $145 billion at the end of March from $90 billion three
months earlier, according to DTCC, which runs a central registry
for credit-default swaps and reports weekly aggregate volumes.  Iksil’s trades have been so large that they’re widening
gaps between the relative value of the indexes and the average
price of contracts tied to companies in those indexes, according
to the market participants. That has frustrated some hedge funds
that had bet the gaps would close, the people said.  First Quarter  Iksil has been selling default-protection on the index
using swaps that expire in December 2017, meaning he would cover
the counterparty’s losses if a company in the index fails, the
market participants said. The price of the index falls as more
insurance is sold against it. The index declined 38 basis points
in the first three months of 2012, the biggest quarterly drop
since 2009. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The positions, by the bank’s calculations, amount to tens
of billions of dollars and were built with the knowledge of
Iksil’s superiors, a person familiar with the firm’s view said.  Iksil may have built a position totaling as much as $100
billion in contracts in one index, according to the market
participants, who said they based their estimates on the trades
and price movements they witnessed as well as their
understanding of the size and structure of the markets.  Buying Protection  The trade on the index, known as the Markit CDX  North
America  Investment Grade  Series 9 (IBOXUG09) , probably isn’t a one-way bet,
the people said. Iksil may be offsetting the trade by buying
protection on the same index with contracts that expire about
eight months from now, the people said. That strategy would pay
JPMorgan the difference between the long-dated contracts and the
short-dated ones, about 47 basis points as of April 6, and the
trade would gain when the gap narrows. The hedge would end in
December unless another trade is made to replace it.  “Someone in that position at JPMorgan would typically not
be doing pure speculation but would be involved in strategic
risk management for the firm,”  Darrell Duffie , a professor at
Stanford University’s graduate school of business, said in a
telephone interview.  JPMorgan profited from a similar strategy as the credit
crisis erupted in 2008 by buying protection on short-dated
contracts linked to high-yield indexes while selling protection
on longer-dated contracts, a bet that a spike in corporate
defaults would happen sooner than markets were pricing in,
according to a February  letter  to regulators from Barry Zubrow,
the bank’s head of corporate and regulatory affairs.  Losses Reduced  “This strategy resulted in the firm recognizing some gains
as near-term default risks increased,” Zubrow wrote. “The
gains recognized on these derivatives strategies offset in part
the losses that occurred on credit assets held by the firm.”  Zubrow said the trade, which was booked in the bank’s
market risk capital trading account, was a hedge that may have
been banned under the Volcker rule.  The chief investment office’s revenue swelled following the
financial crisis as federal regulators pushed banks to keep more
of their funds in liquid investments, and as deposits flooded in
because of JPMorgan’s reputation as one of the industry’s
strongest banks. Total securities holdings in the corporate
segment, which includes the chief investment office and
treasury, more than quadrupled to $340.2 billion in 2009 from
$76.5 billion in 2007.  Bigger Pool  The extra liquidity meant a bigger pool of money for the
chief investment office to manage -- and more revenue. The
bank’s annual report for 2009 showed $6.63 billion of revenue
for the corporate segment, up from $4.42 billion in 2007. It
cited “the chief investment office’s  significant purchases  of
mortgage-backed securities guaranteed by U.S. government
agencies, corporate debt securities, U.S. Treasury and
government agency securities and other asset-backed
securities.”  Revenue in the corporate segment climbed again in 2010, to
$7.42 billion, reflecting a “repositioning of the portfolio in
response to changes in the interest-rate environment and to
rebalance exposure,” JPMorgan said in a regulatory filing. The
bank rewarded Chief Investment Officer Ina Drew with a $15
million pay package for 2010, saying in a shareholder letter
that she “was instrumental in setting the course and directing
the firm’s repositioning of the balance sheet.”  Revenue Tumbled  Last year, revenue tumbled 44 percent to $4.14 billion in
the corporate segment, “driven by repositioning of the
investment securities portfolio and lower funding benefits from
financing the portfolio,” according to an annual filing. Drew,
55, got a 6.8 percent pay cut to $14 million, the bank said in a
regulatory filing last week. Her pay for the past two years was
higher than that of Chief Financial Officer Doug Braunstein.
Drew referred a request for comment to Evangelisti.  The chief investment office is affiliated with the bank’s
treasury, helping to control market risks and investing excess
funds, according to the lender’s  annual report .  “The chief investment office is responsible for managing
and hedging the firm’s foreign-exchange, interest-rate and other
structural risks,” Evangelisti said. It’s “focused on managing
the long-term structural assets and liabilities of the firm and
is not focused on short-term profits.”  Some people hired by the group have come with risk-taking
pedigrees. Irene Tse, 42, a former portfolio manager at Stanley Druckenmiller’s now-closed hedge fund, Duquesne Capital
Management, joined last year as the group’s head in North
America, reporting to Drew. Achilles Macris, 51, a former co-
head of capital markets at German bank Dresdner Kleinwort
Wasserstein, runs the group in Europe and Asia.  Experience, Connections  A search through profiles on the LinkedIn professional-
networking website shows current and former executives in the
chief investment office citing their proprietary-trading
experience and connections.  One executive who worked as a portfolio manager in
JPMorgan’s chief investment office said he ran what he called a
proprietary macro and relative-value trading book that produced
a 12 percent return on capital. An  executive director  wrote that
before he worked in fixed-income trading in the office, he was a
vice president in proprietary trading at JPMorgan.  A technology specialist who worked in the chief investment
office in  New York  in 2009 and 2010 wrote that he led New York
development and business analysis for a proprietary-trading
risk-management system.  The Volcker rule is supposed to take effect in July, though
regulators are still determining how it will make exceptions for
instances where firms are hedging to curtail risk in their
lending and trading businesses.  ‘Illuminate the Risk’  Iksil’s “big bets illuminate the risk inherent in hedge
fund-style trading,” said Senator Merkley of Oregon, who added
the Volcker rule to Dodd-Frank along with Senator Carl Levin, a
fellow Democrat from Michigan. If the trades collapse, Merkley
said, “you want the resulting meltdown to happen outside of the
banks we depend on for loans to families and businesses.”  After the Republican-controlled U.S. House of
Representatives returns from a spring recess, members are set to
vote on a bill that would limit Dodd-Frank clearing, trading and
collateral regulations from applying to trades between foreign-
based affiliates of U.S. banks and their overseas clients.  The JPMorgan trades are an example of why such exceptions
are misguided, said Representative Miller, a North Carolina
Democrat who sits on the Financial Services Committee.  Miller’s Vote  “Even if these trades are done in  London  and even if they
are done by a foreign affiliate, there’s no doubt that JPMorgan
would be liable and that any solvency issue would be visited
upon the U.S. and the  U.S. economy  and the U.S. taxpayer,” said
Miller, who voted against the bill at a preliminary stage in the
committee.  Even without regulatory scrutiny, reports that Iksil’s
trades were so large that they moved market prices are likely to
concern JPMorgan, Stanford University’s Duffie said.  “If the trades were indeed part of a risk management
strategy, then the intent wouldn’t be to move markets,” Duffie
said. “The most obvious remedy is to reduce the extent to which
they put on such large trading positions in the future.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net ;
Bradley Keoun in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  