-- JPMorgan’s Iksil May Spur Regulators to Dissect Trading
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r   a n d   B r a d l e y   K e o u n
-- 2012-04-09T23:35:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/jpmorgan-s-iksil-seen-spurring-regulators-to-dissect-trading.html
Market-moving trades by  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s chief investment office probably will force
regulators to seek more detail on banks’ derivatives positions
to help them distinguish risk management from speculation.  Bruno Iksil, a London-based trader in the unit, has built
derivatives positions linked to corporate credit that are so big
he’s moved markets, according to hedge fund managers and
dealers. While  Joe Evangelisti , a bank spokesman, said yesterday
that the trades are part of the firm’s hedging strategy, four
market participants said they resemble proprietary bets, or
wagers with the lender’s own money.  Executives at New York-based JPMorgan, the biggest U.S.
bank with $2.27 trillion of  assets  at year-end, have opposed the
so-called Volcker rule that seeks to prevent banks with federal
backing from making speculative trades. Details on Iksil’s
positions are too sparse for regulators to determine whether
they should be permitted, said  Frank Partnoy , a former
derivatives trader who’s now a law and finance professor at the
University of  San Diego .  “This could be an almost completely matched, hedged
position, or it could be massively risky, and there’s just no
way to tell without getting more complete disclosure,” Partnoy,
author of “Infectious Greed: How Deceit and Risk Corrupted the
Financial Markets” said in a phone interview. “I’m surprised
that regulators don’t see this example and cry out for more
disclosure and more information about these contracts.”  Bank Regulators  Judith Burns, a Securities and Exchange Commission
spokeswoman, declined to comment on whether the agency is
looking into the trading.  Bryan Hubbard , a spokesman with the
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, which regulates
banking at JPMorgan, and the Federal Reserve’s  Barbara Hagenbaugh  also declined to comment.  The three regulators are among those working on the final
version of the Volcker rule.  Regulators are stationed in JPMorgan’s offices and are
aware of what the bank is doing, said a person familiar with the
company’s thinking, who asked not to be identified because he
wasn’t authorized to discuss it.  The results of JPMorgan’s chief investment office “are
disclosed in our quarterly earnings reports and are fully
transparent,” Evangelisti said in a phone interview.  Harvey Pitt , a former U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission chairman, said yesterday in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “InBusiness With Margaret Brennan” that trading
such as Iksil’s should raise regulatory concerns because it’s
influencing market prices.  ‘Dispel Concerns’  “I’d want to talk with the folks at JPMorgan and
understand exactly what took place here,” Pitt said. “And then
I would try to get a report out to the public as quickly as
possible to dispel concerns about things that may not have
occurred and to raise issues about things that actually did
occur.”  Arthur Levitt , another former SEC chairman who is a senior
adviser to  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , said in a radio interview
on “Bloomberg Surveillance” that he expects regulators will
require more information on banks’ derivatives positions.  “And I think that is unfortunate,” said Levitt, who also
is on the board of Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News.
“That raises all kinds of competitive issues.”  JPMorgan holds a portfolio of investment-grade debt and
uses “credit-related instruments” such as derivatives to
protect against a decline in the value of the holdings,
Evangelisti said.  ‘Simply a Balancing’  “Our most recent activity noted in the media is simply a
balancing of those credit-related investments to reduce the
impact of our hedge,” he said. “We do this in the ordinary
course of our asset- and liability-management activities.”  Jack Gutt , a spokesman at the  Federal Reserve  Bank of New
York, declined to comment on whether the New York Fed is
examining the trades.  Jamie Dimon , JPMorgan’s chairman and chief
executive officer, is on the New York Fed’s  board of directors .  “This will be the first test of how aggressively the Fed
will enforce the Dodd-Frank Act,” which includes the Volcker
rule, said  Mark Williams , a lecturer at Boston University’s
School of Management. “From a Fed regulatory standpoint, I see
JPMorgan as having some serious explaining to do.”  The positions, by the bank’s calculations, amount to tens
of billions of dollars and were built with the knowledge of
Iksil’s superiors, a person familiar with the firm’s view said.  Price Movements  Iksil may have built a position totaling as much as $100
billion in contracts in one index, according to the market
participants, who said they based their estimates on the trades
and price movements they witnessed as well as their
understanding of the size and structure of the markets.  Even if regulators are satisfied that Iksil’s trades are
intended to hedge other risks the bank is taking, regulators
should be aware that derivatives often fail as offsets because
of differences in the way contracts are written and traded,
Partnoy said.  “It’s not a pure hedge, it has a speculative element to
it, and that’s particularly true when the contracts are this
big, when you’re talking about tens of billions of dollars,”
said Partnoy, whose new  book  “Wait: The Art and Science of
Delay” is being published in June by PublicAffairs.  “The only perfect hedge is in a Japanese garden,” he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Harper in  New York  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
Bradley Keoun in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 