-- Judge Won’t Cut Bail for Woman Accused of Running Brothel
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-04-09T21:35:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/judge-won-t-cut-bail-for-woman-accused-of-running-brothel.html
One judge refused to overturn
another’s decision after lawyers for a woman accused of running
a brothel for wealthy clients on New York’s Upper East Side said
her bail was abusive and excessive.  “He gave his reasons in great detail,” Judge Charles Solomon said today at a hearing in  Manhattan   Criminal Court ,
referring to Judge Juan Merchan’s earlier ruling. “In my
judgment, that decision is not an abuse of discretion.”  Anna Gristina, 44, is being held at Rikers Island after
being unable to meet bail conditions, set on March 15, of
$1 million in cash or a $2 million bond. Lawyers and Solomon
waited almost five hours for her to be transported to the
downtown Manhattan courthouse from the jail, during which time
no one said they knew where she was.  Gary Greenwald, one of her lawyers, said after the hearing
that they will appeal the bail decision to the appellate
division of the state court system. He said he expects a ruling
within a month.  “I thought the decision was absolutely wrong,” Greenwald
told reporters. “The argument about her being a flight risk is
just absurd.”  Among his arguments was that a co-defendant, Jaynie Baker,
has been freed on $100,000 bail.  Assistant District Attorney Charles Linehan told the judge
that the bail was appropriate because she was a “major flight
risk.”  Gristina, who is Scottish, is a British subject who lives
with her family, including a 9-year-old son, in Monroe,  New
York . She entered and left the courtroom in handcuffs, dressed
in gray slacks and a black and white print blouse. She has been
charged with one count of promoting prostitution.  In an earlier hearing today before Merchan, Greenwald said
he planned to submit a motion to compel the district attorney’s
office to release documents in the case, including wiretapping
records.  The case is People v. Gristina, 12-00751, New York State
Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York
at   djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 