-- Kansai Electric to Spend $2.5 Billion to Improve Reactor Safety
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 2012-04-09T07:59:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/kansai-electric-to-spend-2-5-billion-to-improve-reactor-safety.html
Kansai Electric Power Co. (9503)  will spend
more than 200 billion yen ($2.5 billion) to bolster defenses at
its 11 nuclear reactors against earthquakes, tsunami and other
accidents, president Makoto Yagi said in Tokyo today.  While it would take as long as 4 years to complete the
improvements on the reactors, which are all shut for so-called
post-Fukushima stress tests, Yagi is petitioning the government
to allow the restart of two reactors before summer at its Ohi
plant that passed the tests.  “Though I think we have improved safety to prevent an
accident similar to Fukushima, steps to increase safety never
end,” Yagi said. “Safety at nuclear plants is our top
priority.” He spoke after a meeting with Industry Minister
 Yukio Edano .  Kansai Electric  has warned that if all its reactors stay
offline during summer peak power demand, cities it serves, such
as  Osaka  and Kyoto, as well as Sharp Corp.,  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  and
other companies may face power shortages, hindering the
country’s economic recovery.  Kansai Electric provides power to a region about the size
of Belgium and brings jobs to rural  Fukui prefecture  on the
coast about 95 kilometers (59 miles) northeast of Osaka where
the Ohi plant was built. With livelihoods threatened by the
shutdown of reactors, communities are conflicted on whether they
should be restarted.  ‘Difficult Problem’  “It’s questionable to let the plant restart, but its a
very difficult problem,” said Masataka Tamagawa, a Buddhist
priest in Obama city, about 10 kilometers (6 miles) from the Ohi
plant. “Many people in the city have a job related to Kansai
Electric. It’s not easy to find work if the plant goes.”  The Mayor of Ohi said today safety measures taken so far
are “sufficient,”  Kyodo News  reported, citing his comments at
a press conference.  Japanese Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  and three members of
his Cabinet will hold talks on the safety of the Ohi nuclear
reactors at 7 p.m.  Japan  time today, the Ministry of Economy,
Trade and Industry said in an e-mail. Industry Minister Edano
will hold a news conference after the meeting.  All but one of Japan’s 54 reactors are now offline after
the March 11 quake and tsunami last year caused meltdowns at
 Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear station.
Kansai Electric’s two reactors at Ohi would be the first restart
of reactors that passed stress tests.  Falling Short  The government and Kansai Electric “fell short of
scientifically and quantitatively explaining why some measures
don’t need to be taken right now and what alternative safety
measures have been secured,” Hironobu Unesaki, a nuclear
engineering professor at  Kyoto University , said by phone today.
“Their explanations are not enough.”  The construction of additional reactor defenses would run
into the year ending March 2016, the utility based in Osaka,
western Japan, said. It would include a filtered-vent system to
reduce release of radiation in an accident, permanent emergency
back-up batteries and a quake-proof building for use as a crisis
center in emergencies.  Nuclear plant operators before Fukushima believed they had
produced fail-safe systems and Fukushima proved them wrong,
Trade and Industry Minister Edano, who oversees the nuclear
power industry, told Yagi in a meeting today. “Plant operators
need to get rid of the safety myth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in  Tokyo  at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  