-- New Zealand, Aussie Dollars Rise on Bets Fed Will Ease
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-04-09T21:07:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/new-zealand-aussie-dollars-rise-on-bets-fed-will-ease.html
New Zealand’s dollar rose to the
highest level in almost a week versus its U.S. counterpart on
speculation the  Federal Reserve  may add stimulus after a report
showed U.S. employers added fewer jobs than forecast.  Australia ’s dollar gained for a third day before China is
forecast to report a second monthly trade deficit, spurring bets
the nation will ease monetary policy. China is Australia’s
largest trade partner. Higher-yielding currencies, such as New
Zealand’s dollar and the Aussie, benefited from the Fed’s first
two rounds of asset purchases, known as quantitative easing.  “It’s natural to see what we’re seeing in asset markets
and in particular to see the dollar-bloc currencies trade a bit
more favorably headed for the important Chinese data,” said
 Mark McCormick , a currency strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman
& Co. in  New York .  The kiwi, as  New Zealand ’s currency is nicknamed, gained
0.2 percent to 82.16 U.S. cents yesterday in New York, after
dropping earlier by as much as 0.5 percent and rising to as high
as 82.38 cents, the strongest level since April 3. Australia’s
dollar rose 0.1 percent to $1.0313.  Both South Pacific currencies rose on April 6, when the
U.S. reported nonfarm payrolls grew by 120,000 jobs in March,
the smallest amount in five months. Economists in a Bloomberg
News survey forecast a 205,000 gain.  The Fed has pledged to keep its target  lending rate  at a
record low range of zero to 0.25 percent through at least late
2014. It will hold off on increasing monetary accommodation
unless the U.S. economic expansion falters or prices rise at a
rate slower than its target, according to minutes of the central
bank’s March 13 meeting released last week.  Fed Purchases  The central bank bought $2.3 trillion of assets to support
the economy in two rounds of quantitative easing from December
2008 to June. The Australian and New Zealand dollars led the
rally among the greenback’s 16 most-traded counterparts tracked
by Bloomberg during the period.  Chinese imports may have gained 9 percent in March, leaving
a trade deficit of $3.15 billion for the month, according to
Bloomberg surveys.  China  posted the biggest  trade gap  in
February since at least 1989 as exports gained less than
expected and imports surged. The government will publish the
latest data today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Cox  at 
 Pcox16@bloomberg.net  