-- NFL Upholds Year Ban of Saints’ Coach Payton in Bounty Case
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f   a n d   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2012-04-09T17:56:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/nfl-upholds-one-year-ban-of-saints-coach-payton-in-bounty-case.html
National Football League
Commissioner  Roger Goodell  upheld the one-year suspension he
gave New Orleans Saints coach  Sean Payton  for trying to cover up
a bounty program that paid players bonuses for injuring their
opponents.  Payton, 48, appealed the suspension, set to begin on April
16, last week. Goodell handed down the decision -- the stiffest
punishment ever imposed on an NFL team and its leadership -- on
March 21 after he said Payton lied to the NFL about the program.
The commissioner also upheld a $500,000 fine on the Saints, the
loss of two draft picks, a half-season suspension for General
Manager Mickey Loomis and a six-game ban for assistant Joe Vitt.  “The club and the individuals will be expected to
cooperate in any further proceedings and to assist in the
development and implementation of programs to instruct players
and coaches at all levels on the principles of player safety,
fair play and sportsmanship,” the NFL said in a news release.
“If they embrace the opportunity to participate in a
constructive way, Commissioner Goodell said he would consider
mitigating the financial penalties on the individuals.”  The league said it discovered a program in which Saints
players were paid bonuses from 2009 through 2011 for various on-
field accomplishments, including forced turnovers and injuring
opponents. All such payments violate NFL rules on non-contract
bonuses.  Bounty Payments  Players funded a bounty pool that paid $1,500 for a
“knockout” in which an opposing player was unable to return to
the game and $1,000 for a “cart-off” in which opponents were
carried off the field, according to the NFL. Payments doubled or
tripled during the playoffs. The Saints won the Super Bowl after
the 2009 season.  The league originally investigated the matter two years
ago, but couldn’t find sufficient proof that a bounty program
existed. In its statement on the punishments, the NFL said that
Payton denied the program existed and then ignored instructions
from the league to make sure it wouldn’t occur in the future.  Filmmaker Sean Pamphilon  released an audio recording  of
former Saints defensive coordinator  Gregg Williams  encouraging
his players to injure the  San Francisco 49ers  in a profanity
laced speech prior to a playoff game last season. Williams, now
defensive coordinator for the  St. Louis Rams , was suspended
indefinitely. The audio was released the same day Payton, Loomis
and Vitt were appealing their penalties before Goodell in  New
York .  ‘Particularly Egregious’  “A combination of elements made this matter particularly
unusual and egregious,” Goodell said in a statement at the time
of the original ruling. “When there is targeting of players for
injury and cash rewards over a three-year period, the
involvement of the coaching staff, and three years of denials
and willful disrespect of the rules, a strong and lasting
message must be sent that such conduct is totally unacceptable
and has no place in the game.”  Payton will be barred without pay for the entire 2012
season. He is due to make about $6 million this season,
according to the Times-Picayune newspaper of New Orleans.  The team talked to  Bill Parcells , who won two  Super Bowls 
with the  New York Giants , about coaching the Saints during
Payton’s suspension. Parcells said he would consider taking the
job if it were offered, ESPN reported. Payton previously told
reporters that he and Parcells had discussions, which he
described as those between an adviser and colleague, and that it
was possible the 70-year-old former coach would fill the Saints’
vacancy on an interim basis.  Talks With Union  The league is also in discussions with NFL Players’
Association representatives about what penalties will be
enforced on the players who took part in the bounty program. The
union has asked the NFL to share information from an
investigation that showed 22 to 27 defensive players were part
of the bounty pool. Goodell said the league has given the union
two confidential reports on their investigation, and today’s
statement didn’t mention when player penalties might be imposed.  Goodell’s ruling leaves little option for legal recourse
for Payton, according to Gabe Feldman, director of the Sports
Law Program at  Tulane University  in  New Orleans , because it is
an NFL matter.  “To get an outside review, you have to really make an
argument that the commissioner exceeded the scope of his
authority and acted in an arbitrary and capricious manner,” he
said after the suspension was handed down. “That’s a tough
argument to make, because this is a really a contract issue. You
agreed to give the commissioners these powers.”  The NFL said Goodell will review the status of Payton,
Loomis and Vitt at the conclusion of their suspensions to
determine their eligibility for reinstatement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Wilmington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kuriloff in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  