-- Nigeria’s Okonjo-Iweala Wants Faster, Job-Focused World Bank
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-04-09T20:38:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/nigeria-s-okonjo-iweala-wants-faster-job-focused-world-bank.html
Nigerian Finance Minister Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, one of three candidates to head the  World Bank ,
said she would focus on helping foster  job creation  and make the
lender faster to react to clients’ requests.  Okonjo-Iweala, who spoke after being interviewed by the
World Bank board of directors, stressed her exposure to war and
poverty when growing up as well as her professional experience
in government and at the bank itself, where she worked in
various positions including managing director.  “I’ve worked during my time at the World Bank in almost
every region of this world,” she said during a forum discussion
in  Washington  today. She said her vision “builds on the need to
be responsive, to be nimble, to be creative, to be able to
deliver.”  Okonjo-Iweala and former Colombian finance minister Jose
Antonio Ocampo are challenging a U.S. monopoly on the job, the
bank’s largest shareholder. The U.S. nominee, Dartmouth College
President Jim Yong Kim, has received an endorsement from
countries including Canada and  Japan .  A group of former World Bank officials, including one-time
chief economist Francois Bourguignon, last week said it supports
Okonjo-Iweala’s candidacy to become the lender’s president. The
39 former managers, in a letter sent to the bank’s members,
cited Okonjo-Iweala’s “deep experience in international and
national issues of economic management.”  The new president will take over an institution that lent
$57 billion last year, dwarfed by the amount private investors
pumped into funding development projects, turning the World Bank
into more of a technical adviser.  Social, Gender Issues  Okonjo-Iweala, who spoke at an event organized by the
Center for Global Development and the Washington Post Live, said
she wants the bank to deal with social and gender issues. She
said she would push for the bank to play a larger role in
helping countries mitigate  climate change .  The lender may need more capital, she said, while
recognizing that member countries may not be in a position to
contribute soon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  