-- Nobelist Gordimer Channels Rage in Tale of South Africa
-- B y   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2012-04-09T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/nobelist-gordimer-channels-her-rage-in-tale-of-new-south-africa.html
Black woman, white man: Jabu and
Steve, the mixed-race couple Nadine Gordimer has built “ No Time
Like the Present ” around, are trying to lead a normal life in
the new  South Africa . Insofar as anybody can.  Once they were armed revolutionaries in what they’ll
forever refer to as the Struggle.  Now they’re raising two kids in a Johannesburg suburb
alongside a few of their old comrades and a gay household in a
deconsecrated church.  It’s a left-leaning Eden: “a place, a home where color,
sexual partnership, have nothing to do with the qualities of
living in freedom.”  As even that tiny extract suggests, Gordimer’s syntax has
grown more challenging over the years. It combines interior
monologue, which looks back to Joyce and Woolf, with what you
could call exterior monologue, delivered by an impersonal social
observer in possession of a political precision that brings
 Orwell  to mind.  With property, private-school bills and good careers, Jabu
and Steve are a little uneasy about having joined “the
bourgeoisie of the comrades.”  But Gordimer’s treatment of them is irony-free; gentle
mockery doesn’t seem to be in her arsenal. Her two heroes are
almost too decent to be credible. Or interesting.  As a result, the conflict in the novel has to come from the
outside. And at 88, with more than 30 books (and the  1991 Nobel
Prize in Literature ) behind her, Gordimer has the tools to
capture a society atomizing into chaos.  Crime and Hunger  The color-blind country Jabu and Steve fought for has
become “the most economically unequal in the world.” Hunger is
rampant; so is violent crime. (A neighbor is shot in a
carjacking.) Desperate refugees streaming in from other parts of
 Africa  are attacked by desperate  South Africans  who see them as
job stealers.  Jabu and Steve are even more horrified by the rapacity of
leaders who once commanded the Struggle and have now turned into
“reborn clones of apartheid bosses.” There’s a lot of talk
about  Jacob Zuma  (today the president of South Africa), who was
charged with 72 counts of fraud and corruption, as well as with
rape.  “This is what the years in prison, exile, deaths in the
bush battles were for,” the former comrades seethe. Under its
serene prose, “No Time Like the Present” is burning.  Being Human  But should we be surprised? Gordimer’s rage made me think
of what Jamaica Kincaid once wrote about the liberation of
slaves: “Once they are no longer slaves, once they are free,
they are no longer noble and exalted; they are just human
beings.”  For an outsider like me, it’s perhaps too easy to point out
that the fight against apartheid hasn’t yielded a Robespierre, a
Stalin or a Mugabe. If revolution has to have a second act,
disillusion beats terror.  Jabu and Steve are so disgusted that they spend the second
half of the novel preparing to move to  Australia . Not for a
minute did I believe these saintly ex-revolutionaries would
really forsake their homeland.  The more they talked about it, the more impatient I got. At
some point I realized that what had been an intelligent pleasure
had turned into a slog.  Who can imagine Nadine Gordimer leaving South Africa?
Eighty-eight is too late to start despairing, and it doesn’t
seem to be in her nature anyway. The question she puts in
Steve’s head sounds much more like her: “What are you doing
about it.”  It’s a sign of her idiosyncratic style that the question
mark is nowhere to be seen. But then she isn’t really asking a
question. She’s providing an answer -- declaring that the need
for doing something never ends -- and it pretty well
encapsulates her career.  “No Time Like the Present” is published by Farrar, Straus
and Giroux in the U.S. and Bloomsbury in the U.K. (421 pages,
$27, 18.99 pounds). To buy this book in  North America , click
 here .  ( Craig Seligman  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Today's highlights: Amanda Gordon's Scene Last Night 
featuring Dimons,  Victor Cruz ; Krista Giovacco meets bankers 
setting up a new wine trust; Martin Gayford reviews U.K. design.  To contact the writer on the story:
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 