-- North Korea Preparing for Nuclear Test, South Korea Says
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-04-09T19:05:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/north-korea-preparing-for-nuclear-test-south-korea-says.html
South Korea warned that  North Korea 
may test a nuclear weapon after a planned missile launch this
month that is already raising regional tensions the most since
Kim Jong Un in December succeeded his father as head of the
totalitarian state.  North Korean activity at the Punggye-ri atomic testing site
is consistent with preparations for previous detonations in 2006
and 2009, a South Korean intelligence report obtained yesterday
by Bloomberg News said. South Korean stocks fell to a one-month
low while defense shares surged by the daily limit of 15
percent.  China, South Korea and  Japan  expressed concern over North
Korea’s plan to put a satellite into orbit with a long-range
rocket between April 12 and 16, which the U.S. says would
scuttle a food aid deal. The launch, which will mark the 100th
anniversary of the birth of state founder  Kim Il Sung , threatens
to overshadow South Korean elections tomorrow.  “The timing is impeccable,” said Park Young Ho, senior
research fellow and director at Korea Institute for National
Unification. “Kim Jong Un is taking advantage of the domestic
North Korean celebrations of Kim Il Sung to aggressively
influence South Korean elections.”  Polls show President  Lee Myung Bak ’s party may lose control
of parliament to an opposition coalition that has pledged to
improve ties with its northern neighbor. Opposition lawmakers
accused the government of using the intelligence report to
influence the elections.  Satellite Photos  North Korea’s ruling Workers’ Party also meets tomorrow,
and may appoint Kim Jong Un the new party chief in one of the
final steps marking his succession after the death on Dec. 17 of
his father,  Kim Jong Il .  South Korea and the U.S. are using their joint surveillance
system to “closely monitor” the activity, Joint Chiefs of
Staff spokesman Lee Bung Woo told reporters yesterday.  “We continue to monitor the possible launch, and we do
believe they have taken additional steps toward a possible
launch” since April 5,  George Little , a U.S. Defense Department
spokesman, told reporters at the Pentagon.  The Obama administration has said firing the long-range
rocket would breach a February agreement to halt nuclear and
missile tests and end uranium enrichment at its facility in
Yongbyon in exchange for 240,000 tons of food aid. Kim’s
government, which says putting a “peaceful” satellite into
orbit doesn’t violate the deal, is using the threat of a nuclear
test as a bargaining chip to keep it from falling apart,
analysts including Koh Yu Hwan said.  ‘Provocative Act’  A missile launch would be a “very provocative act” that
would show North Korea’s leaders aren’t serious about meeting
international obligations, President  Barack Obama ’s spokesman
said.  The U.S. is working with other nations, especially  China ,
to keep up pressure on North Korea, White House press secretary
 Jay Carney  said yesterday at a briefing in  Washington .  Carney wouldn’t comment directly on the reports that North
Korea was preparing to test a nuclear device.  “We’re not going to talk about intelligence assessments,
but any action toward an underground test would be a provocative
action” that would again demonstrate North Korea’s disregard
for its international obligations, Carney said.  Defense Shares Rise  “The likelihood of a third nuclear test depends on whether
the U.S. decides to keep the Feb. 29 food aid deal following the
missile launch,” said Koh, a professor of North Korean Studies
at  Dongguk University  in  Seoul . “With the nuclear preparations,
North Korea is waving its nuclear card at the U.S. and telling
them to make a choice.”  South Korea’s benchmark  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  yesterday sank 1.6
percent to its lowest close since March 7. At the same time,
 Victek Co. (065450) , a manufacturer of electronic warfare equipment,
jumped 15 percent, while military communication equipment maker
Huneed Technologies also rose 15 percent.  The foreign ministers of South Korea, Japan and China
expressed concern over North Korea’s launch plans, Xinhua
reported after a trilateral meeting in Ningbo, China.  North Korean authorities have installed the fuselage into
position at its coastal Sohae Satellite Station in the country’s
northwest, and the launch appears to be on schedule, according
to the intelligence report.  UN Sanctions  “While it seems possible that North Korea may conduct a
nuclear test after the missile launch like it did in 2009, we
will need to wait until liftoff takes place to see how the
situation progresses,” South Korean Defense Ministry spokesman
Kim Min Seok told reporters yesterday in Seoul.  Following the 2009 test, the  United Nations Security
Council  passed a  resolution  condemning the move and
strengthening sanctions that include allowing cargo suspected of
containing weapons to be inspected. It also ordered the regime
to admit inspectors from the  International Atomic Energy Agency ,
something North Korea agreed to in February.  In November 2010, North Korea showed its Yongbyon facility
to visiting U.S. scientists including  Stanford University ’s
Siegfried S. Hecker, who said he saw more than  1,000
centrifuges . While North Korea claims its nuclear facility is
intended to generate electricity, it can be easily converted to
produce highly enriched uranium for bombs, Hecker wrote in a
 report  on the university’s website after his North Korea trip.  South Korea ’s main opposition Democratic United Party said
intelligence officials may have leaked the information about the
nuclear test preparations to influence the parliamentary
elections.  ‘Questionable’ Report  “It is questionable as to why the intelligence service is
pointing this out to the people and the press now,” Park Yong
Jin, spokesman of the DUP, said in an e-mailed statement.  The DUP, which calls for greater engagement with the North
and has yet to issue its position on the satellite plan, is
fatally “weak on national security” at a time when threats of
a third nuclear test loom, ruling National Frontier Party
spokesman Jeon Kwang Sam said in an e-mailed statement.  According to a Realmeter poll taken March 26-30 before
campaign restrictions on polling went into effect, 39.8 percent
of voters back the NFP, compared with 30.5 percent for the main
opposition DUP and 8.1 percent for its coalition partner, the
United Progressive Party.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net  