-- Rousseff Tells Obama Rich Nations’ Policies Harm Growth
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2012-04-10T03:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/obama-seeks-expanded-commerce-in-meeting-with-brazil-s-rousseff.html
Brazil ’s President Dilma Rousseff
urged the U.S. to invest more in the world’s sixth-biggest
economy and told President Barack Obama that monetary conditions
in rich nations are hurting global economic growth.  Rousseff, speaking yesterday alongside Obama at the White
House, said she is concerned about “expansionist” monetary
policies that “lead to a depreciation in the value of the
currencies of developed countries, thus impairing growth” in
faster-growing  emerging markets .  Later, in comments to Brazilian reporters, Rousseff said
that as policy makers in developed nations try to cut spending
and budget deficits they’ve become too reliant on near-zero
 interest rates  to stimulate growth. Such a policy mix is
creating a “monetary tsunami” that damages Brazil by driving
up the value of its currency and depressing exports, she said
in comments echoing those she made last month in a trip to
 Germany .  Obama, hosting Rousseff for the first time since she took
office 15 months ago, said trade and investment between the U.S.
and Brazil is reaching “record levels.” He said the U.S. is
opening two new consulates in Latin America’s biggest economy
and has “drastically” cut down visa wait times for Brazilian
visitors to the U.S.  Still, Rousseff said she’d like to see even more American
investment, and cited recent offshore oil finds as a
“tremendous opportunity” for expanding bilateral ties. Direct
investments by Brazilian companies in the U.S. equal only 40
percent of the level of U.S. investments in Brazil, she said.  Trade Deficit  Rousseff said that in her meeting with Obama she expressed
concern over Brazil’s trade balance with the U.S., which swung
from a $6.4 billion surplus in 2007 to an $8.2 billion deficit
last year as the real rallied and growth in Brazil spurred
demand for imports.  Brazil is the only member of the BRICS group of major
emerging markets --  Russia ,  India ,  China  and  South Africa  are
the others -- that has a trade deficit with the world’s biggest
economy, and the South American nation generates the seventh-
largest bilateral trade surplus for the U.S., Rousseff said.  At a meeting of business leaders Rousseff said she that
Brazil’s trade deficit with the U.S. “needs to be progressively
balanced.”  Obama is seeking to help U.S. businesses profit from
Brazil’s oil discoveries, the biggest in the Americas since
1976, and from the $200 billion in road, airport and hotel
improvements needed before the 2014  World Cup  and 2016 summer
Olympics.  Cuba, Iran  On foreign policy, Rousseff said she told Obama that this
week’s Summit of the Americas must be the last to exclude Cuba.
Both leaders will attend the regional gathering, taking place
this year in Cartagena,  Colombia , along with representatives
from every other Western Hemispheric nation except Cuba, the
region’s sole dictatorship.  How to deal with Iran’s nuclear program, which Brazil has
defended and the U.S. says is aimed at developing a nuclear
weapon, was not discussed, Rousseff said.  Also absent from talks, according to Rousseff, was Brazil’s
pending decision to revamp its aging fleet of fighter jets.  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s Super Hornet is competing against Dassault
Aviation SA’s Rafale and Saab AB’s Grippen for a contract to
supply Brazil with 36 fighter jets that the State Department
estimates could be worth as much as $4 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Raymond Colitt in Washington at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  