-- Obama’s Fantasy Budget Suggests Tax Hike Surprise
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2012-04-09T23:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/obama-s-fantasy-budget-suggests-tax-hike-surprise.html
“A thunderclap of a speech,” the
editors of the New York Times  called it .  President  Barack Obama  was certainly vigorous in  attacking 
the House Republicans’ budget last week, as he was in attacking
their budget last year.  The problem for Obama is that all he has is drizzle for a
policy. His  budget plan , as his Treasury secretary  admits ,
doesn’t solve the country’s long-term debt problem, and was
unable to get a single vote in the  House of Representatives . His
allies in the Senate’s Democratic majority haven’t passed a
budget for three years, or even attempted to pass one.  The political bet seems clear enough: Voters may want the
budget balanced, but they aren’t going to tolerate the steps
needed to get there, and so Obama can win the debate by
attacking the Republicans’ proposals and not offering real ones
of his own. (It’s the same strategy Republicans have used
against Obama’s health-care plan.)  The more interesting question is what Obama’s economic bet
is. Could he be counting on having the flexibility to balance
the budget in his second term in ways he cannot openly discuss
now?  A Hidden Plan  Taken at face value, Obama’s arguments about the budget
make little sense. He claims, for example, that his plan puts
“annual domestic spending” on a path that takes it, as a share
of the economy, to the low levels of the Eisenhower
administration. That’s true only if we grant Obama a private
language in which “annual domestic spending” excludes the
country’s biggest domestic programs, such as Social Security and
 Medicare (USBOMDCR) .  It isn’t just his own policies that he misrepresents. He
claims that the House Republican budget, written by
Representative  Paul Ryan , leaves senior citizens having to pay
for a bigger and bigger proportion of medical expenses over
time. Actually, the Ryan plan is designed so that government
support for seniors keeps up with medical costs (while also
trying to harness the power of competition to lower those
costs). Even under the worst-case scenario, the subsidies in the
Ryan plan would grow no slower than Medicare spending would
under Obama’s own plan.  The president is on firmer ground in criticizing Ryan’s
 proposals  for  tax policy  and domestic discretionary spending.
The Ryan budget charges the House Ways and Means Committee with
writing a new  tax code  that raises slightly more revenue, as a
share of the economy, than the historical average and that
includes a top tax rate of 25 percent. It doesn’t tell the
committee how to meet these goals, for example by specifying
which tax breaks should go. There is no good argument for this
selective specificity. It is probably also true, as Obama says,
that Ryan’s budget sets an unrealistically low level for
domestic spending outside of entitlements.  But here’s the dilemma. We can’t maintain the country’s
historic rate of  taxation  and its current entitlement structure.
If you want significantly more non-entitlement domestic spending
than Ryan provides, you either have to restrain entitlements
even more than Ryan does or collect even more  tax revenue  than
Obama has suggested, or both. When the  Congressional Budget
Office  applies its economic assumptions to Ryan’s budget,  it
finds  that it reaches a balance in the 2030s. But Obama’s public
proposals -- raising taxes only on the rich and cutting defense
--  don’t achieve a balance ever .  Bush Tax Cuts  Obama, you may recall, has said he wants to keep the bulk
of President  George W. Bush ’s tax cuts, allowing only those for
high earners and investors to expire in 2013. But many Democrats
have argued that he should let them all expire.  If that is Obama’s plan, one could envision a strategy that
gets him there without too much political suffering. He would
continue to claim that he wants to avoid middle-class tax
increases. He would win re-election. And then he would try to
blame any increase in middle-class taxes on congressional
Republicans, arguing that their insistence on extending all of
the tax cuts left his party with no choice but to block any bill
from passing.  The advantage of this strategy is that it would yield a lot
of  deficit  reduction without the need to get any legislation
through Congress. It is thus more achievable than other deficit-
reduction plans. But it amounts to raising middle-class taxes to
avoid reining in middle-class entitlements. Wouldn’t it make
more sense to let people keep their money rather than cycling it
through  Washington ?  If a big, automatic tax increase is Obama’s plan for the
start of his second term, it’s not a good plan. But it is more
alarming to think that he has no plan at all.  (Ramesh Ponnuru is a Bloomberg View columnist and a senior
editor at National Review. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The View editors on why the U.S. should
modernize  food-safety rules  and offer support to the political
opposition in  Venezuela .  Jeffrey Goldberg  on the  Holocaust
hypocrisies  of Guenter Grass. Gary Shilling on why  consumer
spending  is strong and Josh Barro on why pensions in  Illinois 
are in such dismal shape.  To contact the author of this column:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 