-- Occupy New Haven Protesters Denied Request to Stay on Green
-- B y   J o h n   D i l l o n
-- 2012-04-09T21:56:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/occupy-new-haven-protesters-denied-request-to-stay-on-green-1-.html
Occupy  New Haven  protesters fighting
eviction from the town green next to  Yale University  were denied
a court request to remain in the park.  A court order allowing protesters to stay on the green
expires at 5 p.m. local time today, ruled U.S. District Judge
Mark R. Kravitz in New Haven, Connecticut. The judge asked the
city to give the protesters until noon tomorrow to evacuate and
said that if city officials must forcibly remove the camp, it
should be done during daylight hours.  New Haven Mayor John DeStefano said in a statement that the
city would honor the judge’s request, and “we expect the
members of Occupy New Haven to do the same.”  Members of the protest group, one of many to grow out of
the Occupy Wall Street movement, have camped on the green since
Oct. 15 to protest  income inequality  and unemployment. They
accused the city in a lawsuit of trying to drive them out on
behalf of the green’s proprietors, an unelected committee led by
Yale Law School Professor Emeritus Drew Days, a former U.S.
solicitor general in the Clinton administration, in time for
Yale graduation ceremonies in May.  Eviction Notice  The city, which administers the land, served the eviction
notice March 12 “at the request of the proprietors so that the
area adjacent to the New Haven Green would be free from signs of
political protest,” according to the protesters’ complaint. The
eviction is “part of the annual effort to create a Potemkin-
like aura of serenity in downtown New Haven,” they said.  In his ruling today, Kravitz wrote that “the city’s rules
governing the use of the New Haven Green -- as established and
clarified through longstanding practice -- are constitutionally
acceptable, content-neutral restrictions on the time, place, and
manner in which members of the public can exercise their most
important civic rights in New Haven’s most important public
space.”  The group still has the right to protest if it gets a
permit, the judge said.  The ruling means that the green “will once again be a
place for all and not serve as a private residence for a few,”
DeStefano said in his statement.  Kevin Smith , an attorney for the eight protesters, said the
group plans to seek a stay of Kravitz’s ruling tomorrow before
the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in New York.  Smith said he and another attorney for the group, Norman
Pattis, said they expected the protesters to accept the decision
but discovered “a change in the direction of the wind. They
said they would like to go forward.”  ‘Colonial Vestige’  The protesters, in their March 13 complaint, sought a court
order allowing them to stay indefinitely and dissolving the
proprietors’ committee, which they said “purports to govern
public property, but by means secret, seemingly hereditary and
offensive to the values and principles of a republic.”  “The current committee is believed to be the only colonial
vestige in the U.S. still maintaining title to land in public
use,” according to a filing by the protesters. The green should
be “open and available to all,” they said in that filing.  Members of the  Committee of the Proprietors of Common and
Undivided Lands in New Haven  serve for life, according to the
lawsuit. At least four of the five proprietors are connected to
Yale by marriage, education or employment, according to the
members’ online profiles.  Kravitz didn’t rule on the protesters’ argument that the
relationship between city officials and the proprietors is
illegal.  Legal Standing  “By relying on the city’s well-established -- indeed
seemingly uninterrupted -- practice, the court need not
determine the legal status of the rules as promulgated by the
proprietors,” Kravitz wrote in his ruling.  Pattis said he was disappointed that Kravitz didn’t address
the legal standing of the proprietors.  “As brilliant as Judge Kravitz is, he fundamentally
avoided the issue as to who makes the rules on the green,”
Pattis said.  The 16-acre (6.5 hectare) green has been a public meeting
spot since 1638 and once served as the city’s graveyard, said
 James Campbell , librarian for the  New Haven Museum . Thousands of
bodies still lie beneath it.  In a March 26 memo that doesn’t address the question of
ownership, the city said it has the right to regulate the time,
place and manner of public protests.  The city said the protesters’ structures are damaging trees
and grass. The eviction is an attempt to “prevent a small group
of individuals from becoming indefinite, full-time residents on
the green.”  Biggest Employer  Yale is the biggest employer in New Haven, a city of
129,779, according to the 2010  census . The university has 12,000
workers, according to its  Office of New Haven and State Affairs .  Tom Conroy , a spokesman for the 311-year-old university,
declined to comment on the ruling. Yale wasn’t a party to the
lawsuit, he said.  Occupy Wall Street demonstrators camping in  New York ’s
Zuccotti Park, a privately owned public space, were evicted in
November and a state judge said that they failed to show they
had a First Amendment right to stay in the park. In December, a
Massachusetts judge said police could evict protesters from a
Boston square without court approval.  Irving Pinsky, an attorney who has advised the New Haven
protesters, said in an interview that he was at the park shortly
after the ruling was issued. He said he expects some protesters
will leave voluntarily tomorrow while others may resist, arguing
that city officials should ask the housing court to evict a
tenant just as a landlord would be required to do.  The case is Mitchell v. City of New Haven, 12-cv-00370,
U.S. District Court, District of  Connecticut  (New Haven).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Dillon  in New Haven, Connecticut, at 
 j.dillon@snet.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 