-- Hockney, Queen, Vacuum Cleaner Go on Show at London V&A
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2012-04-09T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/hockney-queen-vacuum-cleaner-go-on-show-at-london-v-a.html
The big new show at the  Victoria
and Albert Museum  in London, “British Design 1948-2012:
Innovation in the Modern Age,” probably features quite a few
exhibits that are also on view at your local charity shop.  Although that’s not necessarily a criticism, it’s hard to
claim that it all adds up to a coherent whole.  The ingredients are much the same as in the V&A’s usual
style-era blockbusters. Among them are cutlery, furnishing,
fabrics, crockery (in this case 1950s and 1960s plates),
uncomfortable-looking chairs and a scattering of paintings and
sculptures that look out of place in this context.  It’s de rigueur for the V&A to include at least one vehicle
in these jamborees, preferably -- if the period in question
allows -- a car. In this case, there are two: a Mini and a
Jaguar E-Type. In addition, there are various artistic bibs and
bobs, including an early David Hockney picture and a Henry Moore
stone carving. All of these are nice to see, but it’s not clear
that there’s anything linking them together.  The best of these stylistic surveys at the V&A --
“Baroque” in 2009, for example -- have a clear target in view:
a genuine period look that encompassed all the arts. This time,
there isn’t one. Instead, the exhibition moves from one bit of
optimistic image-spinning to another: the postwar Festival of
Britain, Swinging  London , Cool Britannia. Predictably, the 1960s
are the most enjoyable part, with a series of rock stars’
costumes, miniskirts, album covers and a continuous screening of
a clip from Antonioni’s film “Blow-Up.”  Modernist Nostalgia  At least the first section devoted to the late ‘40s and
‘50s suggests a common idiom: good-mannered Modernism with a
tendency to relapse into romantic nostalgia. The austerity-era
results --in new towns such as Harlow -- often have a depressing
mood, which is characteristically British.  The opposite could be said of the flamboyant eccentricity
of the Beatles epoch and punk from the 1970s. Briefly, a
distinctive British design personality emerges: sometimes
squalid yet distinctively, defiantly odd. After that, there
isn’t much more: an Alexander McQueen dress, which could fit
that definition, and Damien Hirst’s decor for the Pharmacy
Restaurant (1997).  The exhibition peters out in a section devoted to
industrial design, with a Dyson vacuum cleaner, the E-Type, a
few computer games, a model of  Richard Rogers ’s Lloyds Building
(1978-86) and Foster & Partners’ Gherkin (also known as 30 St.
Mary’s Axe). It all has a worthy feel, signaled by that
subtitle: “Innovation in the Modern Age,” with its overtones
of a mission statement.  Groundhog Day  Amid the emphasis on modernity and innovation, there’s a
sense of Groundhog Day about all this.  Queen Elizabeth II  is
there almost at the start, and six decades later, she still is.
In the 1950s, there was excited talk about new towns built in
the countryside (naturally they didn’t turn out as nice as they
look in the architect’s drawings).  The U.K. government recently announced a project to build
another town, this time along the new, innovatory high-speed
rail link. As it happens, the show contains a little about
glamorously fast trains of yesteryear, the Inter-City 125s
introduced in 1976. Plus ca change. Perhaps the true British
fate is always to strive to be modern, yet never really to
manage it.  “British Design 1948-2012: Innovation in the Modern Age,”
sponsored by Ernst & Young, runs through Aug. 12 at the Victoria
& Albert Museum, London. Information:  http://www.vam.ac.uk .  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Today's highlights: Amanda Gordon's Scene Last Night 
featuring Dimons,  Victor Cruz ; Krista Giovacco meets bankers 
setting up a new wine trust;  Craig Seligman  on Nadine Gordimer's 
“No Time Like the Present.”   To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford, in London, at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 