-- Oil Falls on Sluggish U.S. Employment Growth, Iran Talks
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-04-09T19:45:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/oil-falls-on-u-s-sluggish-employment-growth-iran-nuclea.html
Oil declined as an employment report
added to speculation that U.S. fuel demand will slow and  Iran 
agreed to resume talks on its nuclear program.  Futures fell 0.8 percent after the Labor Department said
April 6 that the U.S. created 120,000 jobs in March, below the
median forecast of 205,000 in a Bloomberg survey. Negotiations
between Iran and the United Nations Security Council members
plus  Germany  are scheduled to start April 14, adding to
confidence that global supplies won’t be disrupted.  “Friday’s poor jobs numbers are raising concerns with
regard to future economic activity,” said  Stephen Schork ,
president of the Schork Group in Villanova, Pennsylvania. “The
jobs number is having an exaggerated impact because we were
closed on Friday. When you add the upcoming Iran talks, you have
the makings of a big move lower.”  Crude oil for May delivery fell 85 cents to settle at
$102.46 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The
contract touched $100.81, the lowest intraday level in more than
seven weeks. Prices have climbed 3.7 percent this year.  Brent oil for May settlement dropped 76 cents, or 0.6
percent, to end the session at $122.67 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange.  Commodity and equity markets were closed in New York and
 London  on April 6 for Good Friday. Stock markets in Europe,
 Australia ,  New Zealand ,  Hong Kong , Thailand and South Africa
were closed for holidays.  Light Volume  “Volume is very light because markets are shut in Europe,
Australia and Hong Kong,” said Chris Dillman, an analyst and
broker at Tradition Energy in Stamford, Connecticut. “This is
probably exaggerating the size of moves.”  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 362,223
contracts as of 2:38 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled 494,088
contracts on April 5, 24 percent below the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.56 million.  The U.S. employment increase was the smallest in five
months. The data also showed the  unemployment rate  fell to 8.2
percent as people left the labor force, while workers put in
fewer hours.  “Worries about the  U.S. economy  are coming back with last
Friday’s employment numbers,” said  Tom Bentz , a director with
BNP Paribas Prime Brokerage Inc. in New York. “All of the
markets are moving together today on economic worries. A test of
$100 looks likely.”  Equities, Commodities  Oil also declined with equities and other commodities. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was down 0.8 percent. The Standard &
Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 commodities fell 0.6 percent.  Gasoline for May delivery declined 4.38 cents, or 1.3
percent, to $3.2967 a gallon in New York. It was the lowest
settlement since March 15.  Iran and the representatives of the six nations will meet
for nuclear talks starting April 14 in Istanbul,  Michael Mann , a
European Union spokesman, said yesterday. Their last meeting was
in January 2011. The government in Tehran is under increasing
economic pressure from trade, financial and energy sanctions,
including U.S. penalties on banks that process payments for
Iranian crude.  The Persian Gulf country’s Supreme National Security
Council said in a statement today cited by the state-run  Mehr 
news agency that a second round of talks will be held in
Baghdad, the date of which will be announced at the end of the
Istanbul meeting.  No Conditions  Iranian Foreign Minister  Ali Akbar Salehi  said today that
he won’t accept conditions before the talks. His comment came
after the New York Times, citing unidentified diplomats,
reported that the allies plan to demand the immediate closing of
a nuclear enrichment facility in central Iran.  Prices have dropped 7.3 percent since touching $110.55 a
barrel in intraday trading on March 1, the highest level since
May 2011, on concern that the tension over  Iran’s nuclear
program  will affect global supplies.  Oil also fell on reports of inflation in  China , where
consumer prices rose 3.6 percent from a year earlier, according
to the National Bureau of Statistics. That exceeded the median
3.4 percent estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 33 economists.
Faster inflation may limit the government’s options to stimulate
growth in the second-largest oil-consuming country.  U.S. crude oil  inventories  are at the highest level since
June after rising 9.01 million barrels to 362.4 million in the
week ended March 30, according to the Energy Department.  “You still have that huge supply build from last week
hanging over the market,” said Fred Rigolini, vice president of
Paramount Options Inc. in New York.  Speculator Bets  Speculators reduced bullish bets on oil by the most in more
than three months, according to the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission’s Commitments of Traders report on April 6. Money
managers cut net long positions, or wagers on rising prices, by
10 percent in the seven days ended April 3, for the biggest drop
since Dec. 20, the report showed.  Hedge funds  and other money managers cut bullish bets on
Brent oil by 11,809 contracts in the week ended April 3,
according to ICE. Speculative bets that futures and options
combined will rise, outnumbered short positions by 139,074 lots,
ICE said today in its weekly Commitment of Traders report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  