-- Oneok Plans $1.8 Billion Oil Pipeline to Cushing Hub
-- B y   M i k e   L e e
-- 2012-04-09T20:11:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/oneok-plans-1-8-billion-oil-pipeline-to-cushing-hub.html
Oneok Partners LP (OKS)  plans to build a
$1.8 billion pipeline that will bring 200,000 barrels of crude a
day from North Dakota’s Bakken Shale field to an oil-trading hub
in Cushing,  Oklahoma .  Construction of the 1,300-mile (2,100-kilometer) Bakken
Crude Express pipeline will start as soon as 2013 and the system
may be operating in early 2015, the Tulsa, Oklahoma-based
partnership said in a statement today. The project would be
Oneok Partners’ first oil pipeline and is estimated to cost $1.5
billion to $1.8 billion.  “As producers continue to aggressively develop crude oil
from wells in the Bakken Shale, more crude-oil pipeline takeaway
capacity will be required,” Terry K. Spencer, Oneok Partners
president, said in the statement.  The Bakken Shale formation, which stretches from  Canada 
into  North Dakota  and  Montana , holds an estimated 3.6 billion
barrels of crude, according to the U.S. Energy Department. A
lack of pipelines to bring the oil to refineries has caused
crude prices in North Dakota, which had record output in January,
to trade for as much as 30 percent less than West Texas
Intermediate, the U.S. benchmark.  The proposed pipeline will run alongside existing Oneok
Partners’ projects for more than 80 percent of the route and
will be “well-positioned” to move crude from the Niobrara
Shale in Colorado and Wyoming, according to the statement.  Transporting Oil  Production from the U.S. portion of the Williston Basin,
which includes the Bakken, is projected to hit 1 million barrels
a day in five years, which would increase the need for
transportation, said Justin Kringstad, director of the  North
Dakota Pipeline Authority .  “It’s going to be very interesting to see how industry
shakes this out in the next several months,” Kringstad said in
an interview.  Oneok joins at least three other companies that are
building or considering pipelines to transport Bakken oil.  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL pipeline, which has been
delayed because of environmental concerns in Nebraska, includes
a  link  to the Bakken that would transport 100,000 barrels a day
from the formation.  Pipeline Expansion  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  is reversing and expanding a pipeline in
North Dakota that will allow it to transport 120,000 barrels a
day by 2012, according to its  website . Separately, the company
is expanding its Flanagan pipeline from  Chicago  to Cushing, and
is working with Enterprise Partners LP to reverse and expand the
Seaway pipeline between Cushing and the Gulf Coast. The system
will be able to move 850,000 barrels a day to the coast when
completed in 2015.  Kinder Morgan Energy Partners LP (KMP)  is considering  converting 
its Pony Express pipeline to carry 210,000 barrels of oil a day
from Wyoming to Cushing, according to the company’s website.  Oneok Partners is investing as much as $2 billion in Bakken
Shale gas projects through 2014, including a gathering system
and processing facilities and a pipeline for gas liquids.  Oneok Inc. (OKE) , which sold the partnership its gas pipelines,
storage and processing business in 2006, holds a 43 percent
stake in Oneok Partners and owns the general partner that
controls it.  Oneok Partners  fell  1.6 percent to $54.06 at the close in
 New York . Oneok Inc. dropped 0.5 percent to $80.68.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Lee in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  