-- Optimer Shares Fall After Chang is Stripped of Chairman Post
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-04-09T20:16:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/optimer-shares-fall-after-chang-is-stripped-of-chairman-post-1-.html
Optimer (OPTR)  Pharmaceuticals Inc. plunged
the most in almost a month after the maker of the antibiotic
Dificid stripped  Michael Chang  of his chairmanship and fired the
chief financial officer and a vice president.  Optimer declined 4 percent to $13.72 at the close in New
York. Chang also has been asked to resign as a director, San
Diego-based Optimer said today in a statement. Hank McKinnell, a
former chief executive officer of Pfizer Inc., the world’s
largest drugmaker, was appointed chairman.  Chang was removed from the chairmanship because he failed
“to identify and effectively manage compliance, record keeping
and conflict of interest issues in connection” to a grant of
1.5 million shares he received from a Taiwanese affiliate,
Optimer said. CFO John Prunty and Youe-Kong Shue, a vice
president, were let go because they failed to follow the proper
procedures after finding out about the grant, Optimer said.  “Clearly, we are disappointed that we had to take these
actions,” McKinnell said in the statement. He said the reason
for the firings extended no further than Optimer’s relationship
with its Taiwan affiliate.  Jason Spark, a spokesman for Optimer, didn’t provide more
details on the changes or respond to a request for an interview
with Chang.  Optimer said it has told U.S. authorities about the matter
and is cooperating with them on a review.  Optimer makes Dificid, an antibiotic used to treat diarrhea
caused by the Clostridium difficile bacteria. The company had
$145 million in 2011  revenue , and today said sales for the first
quarter were about $16.5 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  