-- Spurs Slip Up in Race for Champions League Spot, Newcastle Wins
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f   a n d   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-04-10T01:37:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/tottenham-loses-2-1-to-norwich-in-league-chelsea-fulham-tie.html
Norwich won 2-1 at Tottenham to
loosen the  London  team’s grip on fourth place in soccer’s
Premier League as Newcastle defeated Bolton 2-0 for its fifth
straight victory.  Clint Dempsey’s late header gave Fulham a 1-1 draw last
night against Chelsea, which remains winless against other teams
from London this season. In other games yesterday, Everton
scored four second-half goals to beat Sunderland 4-0 and  Aston
Villa  tied 1-1 with Stoke.  Tottenham fell to a fourth defeat in its past nine league
games as Elliott Bennett struck Norwich’s winner in the 66th
minute at White Hart Lane. Spurs, who have fallen behind Arsenal
in the 20-team standings, have 59 points from 33 of 38 matches
and lead fifth-place Newcastle on goal difference.  Manchester
United  heads the standings by eight points from  Manchester City .  “We were disappointing,” Spurs manager  Harry Redknapp 
told his club’s website. “They were always dangerous, always a
threat and I never sat there and felt comfortable.”  Spurs, who are 20 points behind Manchester United, have
picked up nine points from nine games since Fabio Capello
resigned as England manager Feb. 8 and U.K. bookmakers installed
Redknapp as the favorite to replace him.  The top three clubs at the end of the season enter the
group stage of the  Champions League , with the fourth-place team
having to play a qualifying round. Chelsea is two points further
back in sixth after missing the chance to pull even on points
with Spurs and Newcastle.  Magpies Win Again  Hatem  Ben Arfa ’s solo goal and Papiss Cisse’s close-range
finish in the last 17 minutes secured the win against Bolton
that leaves Newcastle in contention to reach  Europe ’s elite club
competition for the first time since 2003. Bolton stays one
point above the three-team relegation zone.  Chelsea missed its chance to take fourth place as Fulham’s
Dempsey scored with an 82nd-minute header to tie the west London
derby at Craven Cottage. Frank Lampard had put the Blues ahead
with a 45th-minute penalty kick that made him the first
midfielder to score 150 Premier League goals.  Dempsey’s 16th goal of the season put the U.S. national
team forward joint-fourth on the Premier League’s scoring list,
which is headed by  Robin van Persie  of Arsenal with 26.  Chelsea interim manager Roberto Di Matteo, whose team faces
Tottenham in an F.A. Cup semifinal on April 15, said fourth
place will probably be decided in the 38th round of matches.  “It’s going to go down to the last game,” Di Matteo told
Chelsea’s website. “It’s a very competitive league. We have an
experienced team and very good players and we will raise our
game for the next challenge.”  Everton, which faces Liverpool in the other F.A. Cup
semifinal on April 14, got second-half goals from Magaye Gueye,
Steven Pienaar,  Leon Osman  and Victor Anichebe to beat
Sunderland and move four points ahead of its city rival in
seventh place.  Everton has finished above Liverpool only once in the
Premier League, in 2004-05. Liverpool visits Blackburn today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  