-- Profit Growth Stalls as European Slump Hampers Recovery
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2012-04-10T13:08:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/profit-growth-stalls-as-european-slump-hampers-recovery.html
U.S. corporate profit growth
stalled in the U.S. last quarter as companies from  McDonald’s
Corp. (MCD)  to  3M Co. (MMM)  saw gains in the world’s largest economy eroded
by a slump in Europe.  Earnings at Standard & Poor’s 500 Index companies,
excluding financials, are seen gaining 0.6 percent in the first
and the second quarter from a year earlier, according to
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg, the slowest growth
rate since 2009.  The European debt crisis and a slowdown in China are
hurting S&P 500 companies, which derive about 40 percent of
profits from abroad. At home, where the S&P 500 Index had its
biggest first-quarter  rally  since 1998, consumer confidence is
improving along with the job market -- boosting demand for
construction companies and retailers.  “While the  U.S. economy  is the cleanest shirt in the
hamper at the moment, we’re only talking about an economy that’s
motoring along at a subpar pace,” said Mark Luschini, chief
investment strategist for Philadelphia-based Janney Montgomery
Scott LLC, which manages about $54 billion. “The only way
you’re going to see higher profitability is through faster
growth.”  The U.S. economy will accelerate 2.2 percent this year, up
from 1.7 percent in 2011, according to the average of 72
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Full Recovery ‘Far’  Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said yesterday the
economy hasn’t fully recovered.  “About three and a half years have passed since the
darkest days of the financial crisis, but our economy is still
far from having fully recovered from its effects,” Bernanke
said in a speech in Stone Mountain, Georgia.  Last month, China pared its growth target to 7.5 percent
from an 8 percent set in 2005. The 17-nation euro economy is
projected to contract 0.4 percent in 2012, with recessions in
countries including Greece and Spain.  “If you do business in Europe, that’s going to be
hurting,”  Jim Paulsen , who helps oversee about $333 billion as
chief investment strategist at Wells Capital Management in
Minneapolis, said in a phone interview last week. “You
certainly are seeing some slowing trends in the emerging
world.”  Earnings Outlook  Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the biggest U.S. aluminum producer, will be the
first company in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  to announce
results when it reports today. The New York-based company is
projected to post a loss of 4 cents a share, according to the
average of 19 analysts’ estimates, compared with profit of 28
cents a year earlier, hurt by an average 12 percent aluminum-
price decline in the quarter.  Earnings growth will speed up in the second half for S&P
500 companies, with a projected gain of 6.9 percent for 2012,
driven by an accelerating recovery in the U.S. and improving
emerging markets.  “Some of the emerging market economies that have been
weak, like China for example, should start to rebound,” Barry Knapp, head of equity strategy at Barclays Capital Inc. in New
York, said in an interview last week. “The numbers could be a
little better in the second half.”  Europe is crimping  General Electric Co.’s (GE)  health-care sales
and demand for 3M’s consumer products. GE, the world’s largest
maker of medical imaging equipment, may see sales drop 10
percent at its health-care unit in Europe as governments cut
spending as part of austerity measures.  GE, 3M Estimates  “Health care is going to be pretty challenging,” Jeff Sprague, co-founder of Vertical Research Partners in New York,
said in a telephone interview. “That’s where the impact is
going to be most visible and in other businesses it’s going to
be felt more around the margins.”  GE, based in Fairfield, Connecticut, is projected to report
earnings of $3.43 billion, according to analysts, down 2.3
percent from a year earlier.  3M Chief Financial Officer David Meline said in January
that the St Paul, Minnesota-based company anticipated from China
“continued below-trend growth in the first half of 2012 with
stronger growth returning in the second half.” Net income at
3M, which gets more than 20 percent of its  sales  from Europe and
about 31 percent from Asia Pacific, will fall 5.2 percent to
$1.05 billion, according to analysts’ estimates.  European Slump  Declining demand in Europe is prompting  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) ,
the largest U.S. chemical maker, to shut five factories and cut
900 jobs. Analysts project the Midland, Michigan-based company
to post earnings of 58 cents a share, down from 82 cents a year
earlier.  McDonald’s, the world’s largest restaurant chain, posted
same-store sales for February that trailed analysts’ estimates
after consumers cut spending in Europe. First-quarter net income
at the  Oak Brook , Illinois-based company may have increased 5
percent to $1.27 billion, according to analysts’  estimates , less
than half the growth of the fourth quarter.  Analysts’ estimates for S&P 500 earnings growth have
declined to 0.6 percent from 4.4 percent in the first week of
January, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Expectations have been coming down,” said Todd Lowenstein, a fund manager with Highmark Capital Management in
 Los Angeles , which oversees about $17 billion. “Companies have
managed them down pretty well. This could set the table for some
good beats for the quarter.”  Global Demand  Parker Hannifin Corp. (PH) , a Cleveland-based manufacturer of
fluid power systems, in January cut its full-year forecast as
international demand slowed. Analysts predict earnings for the
quarter that ended in March to drop 4.7 percent to $268 million,
the average of eight estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the world’s most valuable company, will help
boost S&P 500 earnings growth with an estimated 53 percent jump
in quarterly profit to $9.2 billion. Since 2008, sales at the
Cupertino, California-based company have quadrupled, driven by
demand for the iPhone and iPad.  Other technology companies are posting unchanged sales and
sagging profits as corporate purchases of equipment to boost
productivity fail to make up for lower consumer sales.  Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s largest chipmaker, may report that
first-quarter sales were little changed from a year earlier at
about $12.8 billion, according to the average of analysts’
estimates. Demand for its processors is beginning to recover
from a slump in orders for computer parts caused by production
shortages of hard disk drives, according to Suji De Silva, an
analyst at ThinkEquity LLC.  Microsoft Buybacks  Share repurchases will help  Microsoft Corp.’s (MSFT)  earnings per
share to increase to 57 cents from 56 cents, according to
analysts’ estimates. Net income will drop 6.9 percent to $4.87
billion. The world’s largest software company, based in Redmond,
Washington, began a $40 billion, five-year share repurchase plan
in 2008.  The yen strengthened today after Japan kept its key
overnight rate unchanged and Bernanke made his comments about
the U.S. economy not having fully recovered.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index decreased 1.3 percent at 8:43
a.m. in New York as trading resumed after most European markets
were closed yesterday. Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures rose
0.1 percent after the gauge declined 1.1 percent yesterday.  Sony Results  Sony Corp. (6758JT)  today posted a record loss of 520 billion yen
($6.4 billion) for the year ended March 31, more than double
what it had predicted in February, after taking a charge to
write down deferred tax assets. Kazuo Hirai, who replaced Howard
Stringer as president and CEO, is set to unveil details of his
strategy to turn around the company April 12.  Sharp Corp. (6753JT) , Japan’s largest maker of LCD panels, also
posted a record loss of 380 billion yen in the year ended March
31, more than its earlier forecast. Sharp in February predicted
a loss on slumping prices for its Aquos televisions, an economic
slowdown and a tax charge.  Toyota Motor Corp.’s (7203)  earnings per share may more than
quadruple to 39 yen for the three months ended March 31, from
about 8 yen a year earlier, according to the average of three
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The automaker is working to increase U.S. sales 15 percent
this year, which would bring it to about 1.89 million vehicles,
or about 600,000 fewer than General Motors Co. sold last year in
its home market.  Auto Industry  German automakers  Daimler AG (DAI)  and Volkswagen AG in 2012 may
match last year’s record operating profit as increasing sales in
the U.S. and China offset a market slump in Europe, where
industrywide deliveries are expected to drop for a fifth
straight year.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the world’s largest maker of
luxury cars, forecast last month that pretax profit this year
will beat 2011’s result on demand for the next-generation 3-
Series sedan.  Daimler, the world’s third-largest maker of luxury cars,
boosted Mercedes-Benz brand sales in the first quarter 12
percent to 313,902.  GM will probably report first-quarter earnings, excluding
some items, fell to 83 cents a share from 95 cents a year
earlier as the automaker struggled with losses in Europe and saw
U.S. market share decline.  ‘Industrial Recovery’  The U.S. economy is powering profits of companies such as
 Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , the world’s largest maker of construction and
mining equipment, as North American customers replace aging
fleets after delaying purchases during the recession.
Caterpillar, based in Peoria, Illinois, is expected to report
earnings per share of $2.12 in the first quarter, a gain of 15
percent from a year earlier.  “The industrial recovery continues despite macro
worries,”  Stephen Volkmann , a New York-based analyst for
Jefferies & Co. who has a buy rating on the shares, said in a
report March 20.  Banks may see about 10 percent less revenue from trading
than in the first quarter of 2011, according to Keith Horowitz,
an analyst at  Citigroup (C)  Inc. Low interest rates may also
continue to put pressure on lenders’ net interest margins, the
difference between what banks pay on deposits and charge for
loans, KBW Inc. analysts led by David Konrad said in a note.  Outsized Profit Gains  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the largest U.S. bank by assets, is
estimated to report earnings of $4.53 billion, an 18 percent
drop from the $5.56 billion it posted a year earlier. Citigroup
will probably report a 1 percent increase in its earnings, while
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s are estimated to be unchanged.  Banks will also see loan growth for the first time in three
years, according to Chris Kotowski, an analyst at Oppenheimer &
Co.  The  S&P 500 Index (SPX)  posted a 12 percent gain in the first
three months of the year to 1,408.47, the biggest first-quarter
increase since 1998. Stocks rallied following Greece’s bailout
and on optimism about the U.S. recovery, Wells Capital’s Paulsen
said.  “We’re already at record earnings and didn’t get paid for
them,” Paulsen said of the profit gains in the last two years.
“We don’t really need a lot of earnings from here. We just need
them not to fall apart.”  Investors shouldn’t get too excited about 2 percent growth
in the U.S., said Savita Subramanian, chief equity strategist
with Bank of America in New York. That kind of growth won’t
support the outsized profit gains that analysts had grown
accustomed to as companies rebounded from recession, she said.  “We’re getting to a normal economy where earnings growth
is getting a little more to the 6 to 7 percent range,” said
Subramanian, who estimates that about 40 percent of S&P 500
Index profits come from overseas. “Analyst expectations are
still a little too high.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Black in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Miller at 
 kmiller@bloomberg.net  