-- Protests Help ClickSoftware Make Sales: Israel Overnight
-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f
-- 2012-04-09T23:14:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/protests-to-help-clicksoftware-meet-sales-mark-israel-overnight.html
ClickSoftware Technologies Ltd. (CKSW) 
will boost 2012 revenue by 18 percent as protests against rising
living costs spur companies to buy the software developer’s
customer-focused products, the chief executive officer said.  More than 90,000 Israelis joined a Facebook group last year
calling for a boycott of cottage cheese, which cost almost 8
shekels ($2.14) for a 250-gram (0.6 pound) container, up from
4.91 shekels in 2006, when government price supervision was
lifted. ClickSoftware  tumbled  the most since October 2009 in  New
York  yesterday, the biggest decliner on the  Bloomberg Israel-US
Equity Index (ISRA25BN)  of the biggest Israeli stocks listed in  the U.S.  “The growth drivers of ClickSoftware continue to be
there,” CEO Moshe BenBassat said by phone from Netanya,  Israel 
yesterday. “Part of it has to do with the need to improve
 customer service ” as people increasingly use social media like
Facebook to voice concerns and start boycotts, he said.  The company will “meet” annual guidance for revenue to
rise to between $100 million to $105 million, from $87.1 million
in 2011, BenBassat said.  ClickSoftware, which  supplies  power companies EON AG and
PG&E Corp. with systems that help track orders, halted its
biggest annual gain in three years yesterday after saying that
first-quarter revenue probably fell short of analysts’
estimates. Protests in Israel against rising prices for
everything from housing to chocolate that have spurred the
government to focus on bolstering consumer-industry competition,
will lift software sales this year, BenBassat said.  ‘People Were Disappointed’  Revenue probably climbed 12 percent in the first three
months of the 2012 to $21.6 million, ClickSoftware said in a
PRNewswire statement yesterday, below the $22.5 million median
of four analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Some of the contracts the company expected to sign during
the first three months of 2011 were postponed until this
quarter, BenBassat said.  “People were disappointed on the quarter,” Dov Rozenberg,
an  analyst  at  RBC Capital Markets  said by phone from Tel Aviv
yesterday. “That’s what happens when some of the deals get
pushed out or delayed.”  Shares of the Petach Tikva, Israel-based company sank 16
percent yesterday to $10.56 in New York, the most in 2 1/2
years.  ClickSoftware, whose customer-service software facilitates
communication with clients, is used by Partner Communications
Co., Israel’s second-largest mobile phone services provider. The
company will report first-quarter earnings on May 2.  ClickSoftware was cut to hold from buy by Maxim Group LLC
yesterday.  MagicJack Gains  Israel, whose population of 7.8 million is similar in size
to  Switzerland ’s, has about 60 companies traded on the Nasdaq
Stock Market, the most of any country outside the U.S. after
 China . The nation is also home to more startup firms per capita
than the U.S.  The Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index retreated 1.8 percent
to 88.05 yesterday, the biggest one-day drop since Dec. 28.
Israel’s benchmark TA-25 Index fell 0.3 percent to 1,133.65. The
 Tel Aviv  Stock Exchange shuts early this week because of the
Passover holiday.  MagicJack Vocaltec Ltd. (CALL)  climbed 11 percent to $23.07 in the
U.S., the most in two months. The Netanya, Israel-based company,
whose founders invented the technology to make phone calls over
the Internet, said it expects first-quarter earnings of 26 cents
per share, twice the 13-cent median of two analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  SodaStream Momentum  Ituran Location and Control Ltd.  climbed 3.7 percent to
$14.03 after its shares in Tel Aviv gained 5.1 percent to 52.95
shekels, or the equivalent of $14.11. The Azur, Israel-based
maker of systems for locating stolen vehicles said General
Motors  Brazil  will offer its anti-theft services in Chevrolet
vehicles.  SodaStream International Ltd. (SODA) , an Airport City, Israel-
based maker of homemade soda machines, rose 0.6 percent to
$33.50 yesterday in New York.  “The results of our March retailer survey indicate
continued strong momentum for SodaStream products,” Jim Chartier, an analyst at Monness Crespi Hardt & Co. in New York,
wrote in an e-mailed report yesterday, citing a survey of more
than 2,000 stores.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tal Barak Harif in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  