-- Rambus, Mylan, Apple, Duprees, Viacom: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-04-09T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/rambus-mylan-apple-duprees-viacom-intellectual-property-1-.html
Rambus Inc. (RMBS)  is appealing its loss of
a $3.95 billion jury trial over its allegations that  Micron
Technology Inc. (MU)  and  Hynix Semiconductor Inc. (000660)  conspired to
prevent its memory chips from becoming an industry standard.  The November verdict sent Rambus shares down as much as 78
percent, the biggest one-day loss since the company went public
in 1997. Micron rose as much as 25 percent, the most since its
initial public offering in 1984.  A state court jury in San Francisco by a 9-3 vote rejected
Rambus’s claims that Boise, Idaho-based Micron and Hynix, based
in Ichon,  South Korea , are liable for colluding to manipulate
prices of dynamic random access memory, or DRAM, chips in
violation of California antitrust law. Rambus’s notice of appeal
is dated April 3.  “While we cannot predict how or when the appellate court
will decide our appeal, we believe that mistakes made during the
trial require reversal of the judgment,” Rambus spokeswoman
 Linda Ashmore  said in an e-mailed statement.  Jurors found by the same vote, after deliberating since
Sept. 22, that the two companies didn’t plot to interfere with
Rambus’s business relationship with  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and drive the
world’s largest chipmaker away from its collaboration on RDRAM,
or Rambus-designed memory, that began in the 1990s.  There are no “meritorious grounds” for Rambus’s filing
“but they certainly have the right to an appeal,” Hynix lawyer
Ken Nissley said in an e-mail.  Micron spokesman Dan Francisco didn’t immediately return a
call or e-mail seeking comment.  The case is Rambus Inc. v. Micron Technology Inc.,
04-0431105, California Superior Court (San Francisco).  Mylan Sues FDA to Overturn Teva’s Exclusivity for Provigil  Mylan Inc. sued the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to
overturn a decision to give Teva Pharmaceuticals Industries Ltd.
180-day exclusivity for the generic version of the sleep-
disorder drug Provigil.  Mylan, based in Canonsburg,  Pennsylvania , also sued the
secretary of health and human services and the commissioner of
food and drugs, according to a filing in federal court in
 Washington . Mylan applied to the FDA for approval of its own
Provigil generic and planned to start marketing it April 6.  Teva acquired rights to Provigil through its acquisition of
Cephalon Inc. Provigil, used to treat narcolepsy and sleep
apnea, had U.S. sales of about $1.1 billion last year, Mylan
said, citing data from IMS Health.  The FDA’s decision blocks other companies from introducing
generic versions of the drug. Mylan said that Teva can’t be
granted exclusivity because it didn’t maintain valid
certifications when it purchased Cephalon. Federal law
encourages generic-drug companies to challenge patents held by a
branded-drug company, Mylan said.  “Upon acquiring such control of Cephalon, Teva no longer
had standing to challenge the validity, unenforceability or
infringement of patents that it indirectly owns,” Mylan said in
the lawsuit.  Denise Bradley, a spokeswoman for Teva, declined to comment
on the suit.  Mylan wants the court to order the FDA to grant “immediate
approval” of its application to market the generic drug.  The case is Mylan Pharmaceuticals v. Sebelius, 12-00524,
U.S. District Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  Hungary, U.S. to Cooperate on Patent Application Process  Government offices in the U.S. and Hungary signed an
agreement aimed at facilitating the handling of patent
applications filed by residents of the two countries.  Under the agreement, an applicant who applied in one
country and received a ruling from that country’s patent office
that at least one claim in the application is patentable, can
ask that the patent office in the other country give a fast-
track examination to corresponding claims in a comparable
application filed there.  This will allow applicants to get patents more rapidly and
efficiently, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office said in an
April 5 statement.  Few Hungarian inventors have received U.S. patents
recently. According to the Electronic Official Gazette for
Patents, which lists issued patents week by week, only three
Hungarian inventors received patents since March 13.  By contrast, 222 inventors from  Taiwan  received patents in
the U.S. in a week, as did 109 from the U.K., 1,133 from  Japan ,
301 from  Germany , 327 from South Korea and 44 from  Switzerland .
The database of issued U.S. patents lists a total of 3,105
patents issued to inventors in Hungary, compared with 865,580
patents issued to Japan’s inventors.  Apple Product Packaging May Permit Communication, Upgrades  Products by  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  may soon be talking through their
packaging to potential customers, according to a patent
application filed by the Cupertino, California-based company.  Application  20120081213 , published April 5 in the database
of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, covers “active
electronic media device packaging.”  According to the application, the packaging may include
electrical traces, either molded into or printed on the surface.
These traces can transmit power or data to a row or stack of
devices. Sensors in the packaging can detect movement, which
would trigger a display effect.  Electronic items using this packaging wouldn’t go stale on
the shelf, as it would be possible for store personnel to
provide software upgrades to the unit without opening the
packaging. Software “bugs” could be fixed by using this
method, Apple said in this application.  Apple applied for the patent in December, according to the
application.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Former Group Member Lacks Right to ‘Duprees’ Mark, Court Says  A former member of a pop singing group later known as the
 Duprees  lost his bid to have the group’s trademark canceled.  Michael Kelly, who belonged to a group that began singing
doo-wop songs in the early 1960s, filed suit in Newark,  New
Jersey , in December 2008, saying the trademark was falsely
obtained and that he had a right to its use.  The group is known for its songs of teenage romantic angst,
such as “ My Own True Love ,” “ These Foolish Things, ” and
“ You Belong to Me .”  Kelly left the group because of “irreconcilable
differences,” according to court papers.  In her ruling, U.S. District Judge Susan Wigenton said
Kelly filed to prove he had a legal interest in canceling the
mark. He also failed to show that he was still a member of the
group when the trademark application was filed, or that there
was deceptive intent in the application.  The case is Kelly v. Estate of Michael Arnone, 08-cv-06046,
U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey (Newark).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Viacom’s Copyright Suit Against Google’s YouTube Reinstated  Google Inc.’s YouTube video-sharing website must defend
itself against claims that it violated  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s copyrights
by letting users post clips from shows without authorization, an
appeals court ruled.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in  Manhattan  reversed a lower 
court’s decision to throw out the case before trial.  Viacom sued in 2007, seeking $1 billion in damages and
claiming that  YouTube  users were illegally uploading thousands
of videos of Viacom television programs and movies from its
Paramount Pictures studio.  U.S. District Judge Louis Stanton ruled in 2010 that
YouTube was protected from liability by the Digital Millennium
Copyright Act because it removed the offending videos when told
they had been posted. New York-based Viacom appealed, saying
YouTube was aware of the copyright violation when it displayed
the videos without authorization.  The appeals panel agreed with Stanton that the DMCA
requires online service providers to have “knowledge or
awareness of specific infringing activity” before being held
liable for copyright infringement.  At the same time, the appeals court said Stanton erred by
granting summary judgment to YouTube on the alleged facts of the
case, and that Stanton erred in interpreting a provision of the
law.  In court, Viacom argued that YouTube used unauthorized
copyrighted material to draw visitors and make the website more
attractive to potential buyers. The site benefited financially
from infringement by reaping revenue from advertisements placed
next to the videos, Viacom said.  Google, operator of the world’s biggest Internet search
engine, bought YouTube in 2006 for $1.65 billion. Google said in
a filing that Viacom had also been interested in buying the
site.  After Google made its successful offer, Viacom sent the
“takedown” notices required by law when a content provider
wants infringing material removed from a site, Google said.
Viacom said YouTube offered it a partnership agreement valued at
$590 million before talks ended.  Google also said Viacom uploaded its own videos to YouTube
to promote its programs. The website operator said Viacom
couldn’t tell which videos were unauthorized and which weren’t.  The case is Viacom International v. YouTube, 10-03270, U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit (Manhattan). The lower-
court case is Viacom v. YouTube, 07-2103, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  Disputed Film Back on Vimeo; Trailer Still Removed from YouTube  Even though an Australian filmmaker’s assistant was hit
with a money judgment for making an unjustified copyright
infringement claim,  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube site still blocks
viewing of a trailer for the disputed film.  The Federal Court of  Australia  awarded Richard Kenneth Bell
A$147,000 ($151,000) and another A$22,000 in court costs after
his film “The Blackfella’s Guide to New York” was removed from
 IAC/InterActiveCorp. (IACI) ’s Vimeo video-sharing site following a
bogus copyright infringement claim by his former assistant.  The court said in its March 13 ruling that Bell lost
opportunities to sell his artistic product, and that his former
assistant failed to appear in the case or file any court papers.
The damages award was issued in earlier proceedings, and in the
March ruling, the court awarded litigation costs.  The infringement claims made by the former assistant were
“groundless”  and “unjustifiable,” the court said.  Bell had posted a trailer for his film on YouTube. When
accessed last week, the  site had a notice  that the trailer was
unavailable because of a copyright claim by the assistant. The
 film itself can be seen  in Vimeo.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in  San Francisco  at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  