-- Rare Earths Shortage Would Spur Pentagon to Action
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-04-09T18:59:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/rare-earths-shortage-would-spur-pentagon-to-action.html
The Defense Department would
intervene in case of a shortage of rare earth materials for
defense electronics and motors, Brett Lambert, the Pentagon
official responsible for industrial policy, said.  “If we see restrictions, we would look to activate one of
many measures, including contingency contracting” that lets
U.S. defense contractors buy materials on behalf of the
Pentagon, Lambert, the U.S. deputy assistant secretary of
defense for manufacturing and industrial base policy, said today
in an interview. “The tripwire” for such action is “if we are
unable to meet requirements.”  Even at the height of export restrictions placed by  China 
in 2010, there was no evidence that U.S. defense contractors
faced such shortages, Lambert said. China, the world’s largest
producer of rare earth materials accounting for at least 90
percent of the global supply, cut export quotas by 72 percent
that year, sending prices of some materials up more than
sixfold.  The global market responded to those restrictions as new
producers such as  Molycorp Inc. (MCP)  of the U.S. and Lynas Corp. of
 Australia  emerged. “Prices of materials have fallen
dramatically,” Lambert said.  The U.S. defense industry’s consumption of rare earth
materials accounts for less than 5 percent of the nation’s
annual use, Lambert said. A report prepared by his office and
sent to Congress last month said domestic rare earth supplies
will meet defense needs by 2013. To prepare the report, the
Pentagon created a database of which materials went into what
components and of available alternatives, he said.  17 Materials  The 17 materials include elements such as neodymium,
samarium and dysprosium that also go into commercial products,
including hybrid batteries, mobile phones and computer hard
drives.  Congress required the Pentagon last year to examine the use
of rare earth materials in defense applications, determine if
non-U.S. supplies might be disrupted, and suggest ways to ensure
long-term availability, as well as secure an assured source of
supply by 2015.  Rare earth materials go into making high-powered magnets
that are used in defense electronics and are usually ordered 24
months to 36 months in advance of weapons systems being
delivered to the Pentagon, Lambert said.  The Pentagon is “continuously monitoring” the market for
rare earth materials and if it notices an emerging shortage the
Defense Department may also seek additional approval from
Congress to stockpile the material, Lambert said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  