-- RBC to Defend Itself Against CFTC Suit Rather Than Settle
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-04-09T04:02:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/rbc-to-defend-itself-against-cftc-suit-rather-than-settle.html
Royal Bank of Canada  has chosen to
challenge the  Commodity Futures Trading Commission  in court
instead of settling over allegations it engaged in illegal
futures trades because it said it didn’t break any rules.  “It was a conscious decision to defend ourselves
vigorously and we made that decision because we believe we
didn’t do anything wrong,” said Arthur Hahn, a Chicago-based
lawyer defending  Canada ’s biggest bank.  Royal Bank is being sued by the regulator over claims it
engaged in illegal futures trades worth hundreds of millions of
dollars to garner tax benefits tied to equities. The Toronto-
based lender made false and misleading statements about “wash
trades” from 2007 to 2010 in which affiliates traded among
themselves in a way that undermined competition and price
discovery on the  OneChicago LLC  exchange, the CFTC said in a
complaint filed April 2 in Manhattan federal court.  “All of the transactions in question here were within
standard rules and the guidances put out by the commission,”
Hahn said in an interview. “We don’t think we did anything
wrong, it’s that simple.”  Royal Bank enlisted affiliates to help carry out hundreds
of futures transactions done off-exchange and then reported to
OneChicago as block trades between independent affiliates,
according to the CFTC.  “These were legitimate block trades, these were legitimate
trades between affiliates,” said Hahn, a partner with  Katten
Muchin Rosenman LLP (1161L) .  “No Injury”  The trades, which resulted in Royal Bank not having a
financial position in a market, were conducted for Canadian tax
benefits tied to holding certain stocks, the CFTC said in its
statement. The transactions, involving single-stock futures and
narrow-based indexes, were used to hedge the risk of holding the
equities, according to the statement.  “The trades all took place at absolutely appropriate
calculable market prices,” Hahn said. “There was no injury to
anyone and we followed the rules.”  Between 2006 and 2010, the narrow-based index trades
between a Toronto-based bank account and RBC Europe Ltd., a
London-based bank subsidiary, represented all of the narrow-
based index volume on OneChicago, the CFTC said in the complaint.
Senior members of the bank’s Central Funding Group determined
the prices and contracts traded.  From 2005 to 2010, RBC concealed material information and
made false statements about the trades to  CME Group Inc. (CME) , which
had regulatory oversight of the exchange, according to the CFTC.
RBC’s responses to CME questions about the trades “concealed
information concerning the central role” of the Central Funding
Group employee and the bank’s single-stock futures trades, CFTC
said.  “We believe we followed the rules and to be absolutely
certain we explained what we were doing before we started doing
it,” Hahn said. “And we disclosed it to the exchange, who
communicated to the commission.”  Regulators Operate Differently  Julie Dickson, who heads Canada’s Office of the
Superintendent of Financial Institutions, which is monitoring
the RBC case, declined to comment.  “The only thing I’ll say about the Royal Bank case is,
when you look at the press releases, both sides are pretty
convinced that they’re right, so we’ll see how that plays out in
court,” Dickson told reporters after giving a speech in Toronto
April 5.  She said while solvency regulators such as OSFI cooperate
and communicate with one another, securities regulators such as
the CFTC operate differently.  “In my experience, you don’t get warning,” Dickson said.
“If you do get advance notification, it’s virtually close to
the hour when something’s being announced. And that’s not
unusual. Securities regulators operate under a different
framework.”  Royal Bank has 60 days to file its statement of defense in
the U.S. court.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  