-- Real Madrid Held 0-0 at Home by Valencia in La Liga
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-04-09T07:36:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/real-madrid-held-0-0-at-home-by-valencia-in-la-liga.html
Real  Madrid  drew 0-0 with Valencia
yesterday, reducing its advantage over Barcelona in Spanish
soccer’s La Liga to four points. Juventus leads in  Italy  after
defending champion AC Milan lost at home to Fiorentina.  Madrid was held scoreless at the Bernabeu by third-place
Valencia, which is now winless in four matches.  Two days ago,  Lionel Messi  moved to 60 goals in all
competitions this season as he scored twice in Barcelona’s 4-1
win against Real Zaragoza.  The top two are well clear of the rest of the league, with
Valencia 26 points behind Barcelona. Levante beat  Atletico
Madrid  2-0 yesterday.  In Serie A, Juventus beat Palermo 2-0 two days ago to
remain unbeaten after 31 games and take a one-point lead over AC
Milan, which lost 2-1 against Fiorentina.  Leonardo Bonucci and Fabio Quagliarella scored in Sicily
for Juventus, which is aiming to win the championship for a
first time since 2003.  Zlatan Ibrahimovic gave Milan a halftime lead from a
penalty kick before Fiorentina rallied on goals from Stevan
Jovetic and Amauri.  Third-place Lazio retained its three-point advantage over
Udinese after both teams had 3-1 wins, against Napoli and Parma
respectively. Lazio trails Milan by 10 points.  Defending champion  Borussia Dortmund  leads  Bayern Munich  by
three points atop the Bundesliga after both won two days ago.
Dortmund defeated Wolfsburg 3-1, while Bayern beat Augsburg 2-1.  Schalke, six points further back in third spot, defeated
Hanover 3-0 yesterday. Hamburg tied 1-1 against  Bayer Leverkusen 
in yesterday’s other match.  Paris Saint-Germain beat Marseille 2-1 yesterday to remain
tied on points with Ligue 1 leader Montpellier, a 2-1 winner
against Sochaux the previous day. Montpellier has played one
less game than its rival.  Third-place Lille, the defending champion, trails both by
seven points following a 3-1 defeat at Brest.  Celtic routed Kilmarnock 6-0 on April 7 to win its 43rd
Scottish championship. The Hoops lead second-place Rangers,
which defeated St. Mirren 3-1, by 18 points with five games
remaining in the Scottish Premier League season.  Rangers received a 10-point deduction in February after
entering administration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in  London  at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 