-- Record Treasury Demand Keeps Yields Low as Supply Shrinks
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2012-04-09T10:46:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/record-treasury-demand-keeps-yields-low-as-supply-shrinks.html
Investors are plowing into
 Treasuries (USB2YBC)  at a record pace as the supply of the world’s safest
securities dwindles, ensuring yields will stay low regardless of
whether the  Federal Reserve  undertakes more stimulus to fight
unemployment.  Buyers bid $3.19 for each dollar of the $538 billion in
notes and bonds sold this year, the most since the government
began releasing the data in 1992 and on pace to beat the high of
$3.04 in 2011. The net amount of Treasuries available will
decline by 30 percent once proceeds from maturing securities are
reinvested, according to data from CRT Capital Group LLC.  Skepticism about the U.S. recovery, as well as signs
Europe’s debt turmoil isn’t over, is enhancing demand for
Treasuries. This may keep yields from surging even if Fed policy
makers refrain from a third round of quantitative easing, and
allow the Obama administration to finance a fourth deficit
exceeding $1 trillion at near-record low costs.  “Investors are holding an overwhelming amount of cash in
the system and chasing fewer securities, which has supported
Treasuries,” said Dominic Konstam, global head of interest-
rates research in  New York  at Deutsche Bank AG, one of 21
primary dealers that trade with the central bank, in an April 5
telephone interview.  The benchmark 10-year note  yield  was little changed at 2.06
percent at 6:43 a.m. New York time, from 2.05 percent on April
6, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2 percent
security due February 2022 fell 1/32, or 31 cents per $1,000
face amount, to 99 14/32.  Treasuries lost 1.3 percent in the first quarter, according
to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Index, compared to a 13
percent  return  in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Supply to Fall  Short-maturity debt the Treasury sold at the height of the
2008 financial crisis to stabilize markets is coming off the
market, generating more cash needing to be put to work even as
new issuance remains steady.  The net supply of Treasuries, or gross issuance minus the
amount of maturing debt, will fall by an average of $32.5
billion a month this year, to $77.3 billion, which will leave an
average of $99.4 billion of investable cash a month from
maturing debt, up from $68.1 billion in 2011, according to Ian Lyngen, a strategist in Stamford, Connecticut, at CRT Capital
Group and part of a team led by David Ader which has been ranked
first by Institutional Investor magazine in government-debt
strategy for the past six years. This comes as government sales
stay relatively constant at about $176.75 billion a month, he
said.  ‘Bullish Underpinning’  “This will provide an offsetting bullish underpinning to
the Treasury market,” Lyngen said in an April 5 telephone
interview. “The U.S. has moved past crisis mode and  budgets  are
becoming more manageable, despite the ongoing debate in
 Washington .”  Average  maturity  of government debt has risen to 62.8
months from 49.4 months during the financial crisis in last
quarter of 2008. The government has taken on $4 trillion more in
debt since then.  Investors have continued to pour cash into bonds funds at
the expense of equity funds as debt mutual funds have attracted
$62 billion this year and $837.4 billion since 2008, compared
with a $1.6 billion drop in equity funds this year and a $396.8
billion drop since 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
and the Washington-based Investment Company Institute.  Taxable bond funds attracted $5.8 billion in new money and
hybrid funds $1.82 billion in the week ended March 21, the
Washington-based  Investment Company Institute  said March 28.
Domestic stock funds had redemptions of $1.79 billion.  Renewed Speculation  Employers in the U.S. added fewer jobs than forecast in
March, underscoring Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s concern that
recent gains may not be sustained without a pickup in growth.  The 120,000 increase in payrolls was the fewest in five
months, Labor Department figures showed April 6. The increase
was less than the most pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey in which the median estimate called for a 205,000 rise.
Unemployment fell to 8.2 percent, the lowest since January 2009,
from 8.3 percent.  “It keeps the Fed in play,” Jason Brady, who manages
bonds at Thornburg Investment Management in  Santa Fe ,  New
Mexico , which oversees $72 billion, said in an April 6 telephone
interview. “We had bought into a story, as a market, that was
about continuous improvements in the employment situation. This
definitely puts that into question.”  ‘Liquidity Overhang’  Since the financial crisis the growth in the  money supply 
in the U.S. has outstripped the rate of growth of the value of
assets, leading to a “liquidity overhang,” according to
Deutsche’s Konstam, causing investors to purchase bonds in order
to put the cash to work.  In response to the crisis, the Fed tripled the size of its
 balance sheet  to $2.88 trillion on March 28, from $905.7 billion
in September 2008 as it created balances it used to bolster the
financial system.  Rising inflation  expectations  may cause investors to slow
their purchases of Treasuries and switch to higher-yielding
assets. The difference between the yield on the 10-year Treasury
note and its comparable maturity inflation-indexed security, the
so-called break-even rate, rose to 2.24 percentage points from a
yearly low of 1.95 at the start of January, indicating the
market expects price increases to accelerate.  The Fed has purchased $1.4 trillion in mortgage and $900
billion of Treasury debt in two rounds of asset purchases
beginning in November 2008.  ‘Enjoying the Benefits’  “We are still enjoying the benefits of enormous asset
purchases, and that is keeping a lid on rates, but inflation
expectations are on the rise,” said Jeffrey Schoenfeld, a
partner and chief investment officer in New York at Brown
Brothers Harriman & Co., which manages $33 billion in assets in
a telephone interview on April 3. “With expectations of growth
improving, it’s hard to hold rates at historical low level.”  Demand for Treasuries is also being fed by  banks  needing to
add safe assets to meet new reserve rules under the Dodd-Frank
financial-overhaul law and  Basel  III regulations set by the Bank
for International Settlements in Basel,  Switzerland . Lenders
have increased holdings of government debt since 2008 to protect
their capital after the credit crisis caused more than $2
trillion in writedowns and losses at global financial
institutions, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  U.S. commercial lenders bought $62.8 billion of Treasuries
and securities of agencies this year, compared with $62.6
billion in all of 2011, Fed data show.  Corporate Treasury Holdings  Corporations flush with cash are also contributing to
demand for Treasuries. Since 2009, the amount of cash held by
non-financial companies has increased 56 percent to a record
$2.232 trillion, Fed data show.  “Banks have to purchase more Treasuries, corporations have
record cash on hand that they are not putting to work, so they
put them in Treasuries,” Tom Higgins, global macro strategist
in  Boston  at Standish Mellon Asset Management Co., which
oversees about $85 billion in bonds, said April 3 in a telephone
interview. “After being kicked in the stomach twice over the
past decade in risk markets, you see more generalized demand for
fixed income.”  Bernanke said March 26 that further stimulus may be needed
to lower unemployment amid risks that signs of strength in the
economy, which caused a 5.56 percent loss for bonds maturing in
10 years or more last quarter, may fade in the second half of
2012.  2014 Target Date  The central bank on March 13 reiterated its previous
statement that economic conditions would probably warrant
“ exceptionally low ”  interest rates  at least through late 2014.
It has kept its target rate for overnight bank loans to a range
of zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  “I don’t think the market is totally convinced, nor is the
Fed for that matter, that we’re out of the woods,” said James Sarni, senior managing partner in  Los Angeles  at Payden & Rygel,
which manages $60 billion in a telephone interview on April 3.
“As long as that’s the case, there’s going to be a demand for
Treasuries.”  Investors also see risk in  Europe . The yield on  Spain ’s 10-
year bonds has jumped about 90 basis points, or 0.90 percentage
point, since Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy said on March 2 that
his government wouldn’t meet its budget deficit target, raising
the possibility of a second bailout. The  additional yield 
investors demand to hold Spanish 10-year bonds instead of
similar-maturity German bunds climbed to more than 400 basis
points last week, the most since Nov. 30.  Fewer Alternatives  This flight to quality comes as there are fewer
alternatives to Treasuries for investors seeking the greatest
safety. A Bank of America Merrill Lynch index shows the number
of issues in its AAA index has fallen to 3,611 from 5,331 in
2007.  “The economic news may be a bit better but it’s hard to
look at anybody and hear a reaction that things are getting a
lot better,” said  Brian Edmonds , head of interest rates at
Cantor Fitzgerald LP in New York, a primary dealer, in a
telephone interview on April 3. “In an environment like this,
people still have plenty of cause for concern. Not only are they
looking at what could potentially happen in Europe, but what
could potentially happen here in the U.S.”  After buying $2.3 trillion of assets to support the economy
in two rounds of quantitative easing from December 2008 to June,
the central bank has been replacing shorter maturities in its
holdings with longer-term debt to cap borrowing costs without
increasing holdings on its balance sheet. The $400 billion
program, known as Operation Twist, is due to end in June.  ‘All the Cards’  “These people hold all the cards,” said Charles Comiskey,
head of Treasury trading at  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  in New York, a
primary dealer, in a telephone interview on April 3. “Three or
4 percent GDP growth is not enough for them to change policy. It
gave people the clear sign to go back in there and buy
Treasuries.”  After rising to as high as 2.4 percent last month from 1.88
percent at the end of 2011, the yield on the benchmark 10-year
note will finish 2012 at 2.49 percent, according to the average
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of primary dealers. That’s
the same as a January poll, suggesting the market isn’t ready to
declare a  bear market  in bonds after a 30-year bull run.  While the amount of marketable debt outstanding has more
than  doubled  to $10.3 trillion from $4.34 trillion in mid-2007
as the U.S. sold bonds to pay for spending programs designed to
pull the economy out of the worst financial crisis since the
Great Depression, interest expense equaled 3 percent of the
economy in fiscal 2011 ended Sept. 30. That’s down from 4
percent in 1999, when the U.S. ran budget surpluses.  “In the back of the market’s mind, if rates creep up too
high, the Fed will just push back,” said Mark MacQueen, partner
and  money manager  in Austin,  Texas , at Sage Advisory Services
Ltd., which oversees $10 billion in a telephone interview on
April 2. “The market is not big as it appears.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  