-- RIM Says Sales to U.S. Government Are Rising
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r   a n d   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y
-- 2012-04-09T12:07:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/rim-says-sales-to-u-s-up-blackberry-white-house-fixture.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  said sales
to U.S. federal agencies are rising and the BlackBerry is still
a White House fixture, a bright spot for a company struggling
with plunging demand amid competition from the iPhone.  The company’s share of the government market is probably
increasing, Scott Totzke, senior vice president of BlackBerry
security, said in an April 5 interview in Washington. He
declined to say whether President  Barack Obama  is still a user,
though he said the White House is a “strategic” customer.  RIM is clinging to the government business as one of its
last North American strongholds as consumers and businesses
switch to rival devices with bigger touch screens and faster
browsers.  Sales in the U.S. , still RIM’s biggest market, fell 57
percent last quarter, in part because  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  iPhones and
devices running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software are proliferating
in the workplace.  “Compared to the enterprise over the last year and a half
or so, the federal business on whole is up,” said Totzke, who
also runs RIM’s U.S. government sales business. “The employee
base is shrinking, so if we’re looking at a market with fewer
employees and our install base is stable to slightly up, that
would seem to indicate that we have an increasing market
share.”  Obama insisted on keeping his BlackBerry when he became
president, and Totzke was in the U.S. capital touting the
smartphone’s encryption and other security features to persuade
more federal workers to adopt or stick with the device. To save
money and administrative hassle, some agencies have started
allowing employees to use their own iPhones and Android phones
for work.  Reclaiming the Market  RIM Chief Executive Officer Thorsten Heins on March 29
acknowledged the BlackBerry maker was late to embrace the bring-
your-own-device trend and vowed to “reclaim” market share lost
to rivals.  RIM will make a “significant investment” in promotions in
the  Washington  area in coming weeks to drum up awareness of what
new BlackBerry 7 phones offer, including better Web browsing and
touch-screen navigation, Totzke said.  “We need to help customers understand what is possible”
with the devices, said Totzke, who joined Waterloo, Ontario-
based RIM in 2001 and previously worked at Electronic Data
Systems Corp., the company founded by billionaire  Ross Perot .  RIM  fell  0.7 percent to $12.67 in New York trading on April
5. The stock has lost 77 percent in the past year.  Mobile Fusion  In an acknowledgment of inroads made by rivals, RIM last
week released BlackBerry Mobile Fusion, software that lets
organizations manage iPhones and Android devices alongside
BlackBerrys on their networks. RIM plans to make BlackBerry
Mobile Fusion the “major player” in mobile-device management
in coming years, according to Totzke, who said he’s in
Washington on business two to three times a month.  That doesn’t mean RIM won’t focus on hardware, Totzke said.  RIM sold 400,000 devices to the U.S. federal government in
the past year as it won more business and existing clients
upgraded to the newer BlackBerry 7 devices introduced in August
and added BlackBerry servers, he said.  About 40 percent of RIM’s government customers upgraded to
new devices in the past 12 months, he said.  “That’s a pretty good refresh rate,” Totzke said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
Brendan McGarry in Washington at 
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  or
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  