-- Rite Aid Out-of-Stock Items Hurt Shopper Loyalty, Unions Say
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2012-04-09T17:55:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/rite-aid-out-of-stock-items-hurt-shopper-loyalty-unions-say.html
Rite Aid Corp. (RAD) ’s failure to keep
items such as Maxwell House coffee and Charmin toilet paper on
its drugstores’ shelves is hurting a shopper  loyalty program 
intended to boost sales, according to a labor federation
representing a quarter of the retailer’s workers.  A survey of 220 stores to be released today by the  Change
to Win  unions found that 40 percent of outlets, and more than
half in the New York City-Philadelphia area, were out of stock
on at least one item discounted as part of the program.  Chief Executive Officer John Standley has been trying
for two years to spur Rite Aid sales with discounts to the more
than 47 million members of its Wellness+ program. The  Camp Hill ,
Pennsylvania-based operator of almost 4,700 U.S. stores has lost
money for the past four years, as its revenue growth trailed
larger rivals  Walgreen Co. (WAG)  and  CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS)   “With a rewards program, you don’t want to promote and
then disappoint your most loyal customers,” said David Slavick,
who developed such efforts for retailers such as Sears Holdings
Corp. and American Eagle Outfitters Inc.  “Rite Aid’s program may have been more successful than it
and its suppliers had anticipated and in that case they need to
do a better job of advance planning,” said Slavick, vice
president of retail consulting and business development for
Customer Communications Group Inc., a customer-relations
marketing company based in Lakewood,  Colorado .  ‘Taking a Risk’  The drugstore chain “is taking a risk by tying its loyalty
program to in-store sales when it has trouble maintaining sale
inventory with a high degree of precision,” Change to Win said
in a report on the survey. The Washington-based group said Rite
Aid must improve “inventory management capabilities and
performance if it is to restore investor confidence.”  The company’s “overall in-stock rate for advertised items
is consistently above 96 percent,” said Susan Henderson, a Rite
Aid spokeswoman, citing its internal checks. On any given week,
the retailer manages as many as 8,500 promotional items, she
said in an April 5 e-mail.  The union group didn’t contact Rite Aid about the survey
and didn’t share methodology or results, Henderson said. When
items aren’t in stock, shoppers get a rain check to buy the
products at advertised prices when they’re back on the shelves,
she said.  Rite Aid will post a loss of 14 cents a share for its
fiscal fourth quarter that ended March 3, according to the
average of six analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. That
would be the company’s 19th straight unprofitable  quarter . Rite
Aid is scheduled to report the results on April 12.  Rite Aid fell 1.7 percent to $1.70 at 1:54 p.m. in  New
York . The  shares , which closed as low as 20 cents in 2009,
gained 62 percent in the 12 months before today.  Union Representation  Of Rite Aid’s workforce of about 90,000 people, 26 percent
are represented by unions such as the Service Employees
International, the Teamsters and the United Food & Commercial
Workers, said Matt Painter, a spokesman for Change to Win. The
federation’s CtW Investment Group works with union-sponsored
pension funds that hold about 3 million  Rite Aid shares .  The Change to Win survey, conducted September through
March, checked whether items advertised in Rite Aid’s weekly
sales circular were on shelves. The sample of 20 to 25 products
included food, household goods, over-the-counter medicines and
items for the care of babies and pets. The survey was based on
1,100 store visits in 13 states and the  District of Columbia .  Mix of Brands  On 78 percent of the visits, at least one advertised item
was not in stock, Painter said today in a telephone interview.  The federation said a mix of national and private brands
was often out of stock, according to a finding that four in 10
stores didn’t have at least one of the advertised products every
time the outlets were surveyed.  Those items included an eight-ounce container of Maxwell
House instant regular coffee, missing from 47 percent of stores,
and Diet 7-Up soda in 12 packs, out of stock at 30 percent,
according to the survey. A quarter of stores were missing 24-
pack Charmin Ultra bathroom tissue.  “We have an interest in ensuring that Rite Aid corrects
longstanding operational problems,” Painter said. “Despite
some improvements in sales, we have serious questions about
management’s turnaround plan.”  Standley, 49, was promoted to Rite Aid CEO from operations
chief in June 2010. The Wellness+ program, introduced nationally
in April 2010, is intended to increase repeat traffic by giving
credits on future purchases.  The program also gives members exclusive discounts on items
listed in newspaper ad circulars and provides special deals to
people with diabetes. Customers can download online coupons to
their membership cards.  More Return Customers  Pharmacy customers enrolled in Wellness+ return more often
than nonmembers, Chief Financial Officer Frank Vitrano told
analysts in December.  Five straight quarters of comparable-store sales growth
show customers are responding favorably to the program,
Henderson said. Rite Aid increased March same-store sales
3.6 percent, with gains in pharmacy and general merchandise.  The company continues spending to improve inventory
management, Henderson said. Rite Aid increased minimum
quantities of some items and provided more inventory of
advertised products in the third quarter ended Nov. 26, Vitrano
said on the Dec. 15 conference call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro,  North Carolina , at   cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at   rajello@bloomberg.net  