-- Rothstein Lawyer Charged With Illegal McCain Campaign Gifts
-- B y   S u s a n n a h   N e s m i t h   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-04-09T19:25:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/rothstein-lawyer-charged-with-illegal-mccain-campaign-gifts-1-.html
A former associate of convicted
Ponzi schemer Scott Rothstein was charged with illegally helping
their  law firm  become the largest contributor to the
presidential campaign of Republican John McCain in 2008.  Attorney Steven Lippman, 49, was charged with conspiring to
help Rothstein’s defunct law firm, Rothstein, Rosenfeldt &
Adler, illegally “bundle” contributions to McCain’s losing
campaign against President  Barack Obama . He’s also accused of
conspiring to draw checks on accounts with insufficient funds
and to evade taxes.  Lippman is the eighth person accused of helping Rothstein,
a disbarred attorney serving 50 years in prison for the $1.2
billion Ponzi scheme he ran out of his law firm in  Fort
Lauderdale ,  Florida . Rothstein pleaded guilty to racketeering,
 money laundering  and  wire fraud  in federal court in Fort
Lauderdale, where Lippman and the others were also charged.  “The breadth, scope, and sheer complexity of Rothstein’s
$1.2 billion  Ponzi scheme  is mind-boggling,” U.S. Attorney
Wifredo Ferrer said today in a statement. “Its success
depended, in no small part, on the complicity of his colleagues
and associates, like Steven Lippman.”  Prosecutors charged Lippman, a shareholder at RRA with no
equity stake, with helping to “dramatically increase the
political influence and power” of the firm by serving as a
straw donor who was illegally reimbursed for his contribution.  “The charges speak for themselves,” Lippman’s attorney,
Bruce Zimet, said in a phone interview. “All of these acts do
not relate to the Ponzi scheme. Though they may have had some
effect on it, he was not a participant in the Ponzi scheme.”  Reimbursed With Maserati  McCain, a Republican senator from  Arizona , donated all
Rothstein contributions under his control to charity when the
fraud allegations first came to light in November 2009,
spokesman Brian Rogers said in an e-mailed statement.  The law firm reimbursed Lippman with money and by paying
for home renovations, patio furniture, a golf membership and a
$134,000 Maserati, according to a charge filed today. He faces
as many as five years in prison.  Rothstein admitted in 2010 that he persuaded wealthy
investors to buy stakes in what he said were payouts from
settlements of sexual-harassment and workplace discrimination
cases. The cases were fabricated, using forged documents and
ruses such as having an accomplice pose as a bank officer.  Halloween 2009  The scheme fell apart over Halloween weekend in 2009 when
Rothstein couldn’t lure enough new investors to pay earlier
ones. After fleeing to Morocco, Rothstein returned to the U.S.
He pleaded guilty to racketeering, money laundering and wire
fraud.  Rothstein was known for what he called his “rock star”
lifestyle. He was married in the Versace mansion in  Miami Beach 
-- Florida’s then-governor Charlie Crist was a guest -- and his
car collection included a Rolls-Royce, a Bugatti, two
Lamborghinis and a Maserati.  In February,  Toronto Dominion Bank (TD)  agreed to settle a
lawsuit with investors who claimed it aided in the Ponzi scheme.
Barron’s and the Miami Herald reported that TD Bank would pay
$170 million.  The case is U.S. v. Lippman, 12-cr-60078, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Florida (Fort Lauderdale).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susannah Nesmith in Miami at  susannahnesmith@yahoo.com ;
David Voreacos in Newark,  New Jersey , at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 