-- Russia Holds Interest Rates as Inflation Pressures Increase
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2012-04-09T07:17:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/russian-central-bank-leaves-refinancing-rate-unchanged-at-8-00-.html
Russia ’s central bank refrained from
cutting  interest rates  for a fourth month after signaling that
“medium-term” inflation risks are increasing.  Bank Rossii left the refinancing rate at 8 percent, as
predicted by 21 of 22 economists in a Bloomberg News  survey . The
overnight auction-based repurchase rate was kept at 5.25 percent
and the overnight deposit rate will remain at 4 percent.  The world’s largest energy exporter is keeping borrowing
costs unchanged even after the inflation rate fell to the lowest
in two decades. Current market interest rates are “acceptable
for the coming months,” Bank Rossii said.  China  may ease policy
to boost faltering growth and  Brazil  has cut its benchmark rate
five times since August.  “Medium-term inflation risks are rising because of
uncertainty over the impact on consumer prices of the planned
increase in most of the regulated prices and tariffs in July,”
the central bank said in the statement.  Consumer prices rose 3.7 percent from year earlier in March
and  core inflation , which excludes volatile costs such as
energy, decelerated to 5.5 percent, the regulator said today.  Russia’s benchmark 30-stock Micex Index reversed gains,
dropping 0.4 percent to 1,491.45 in Moscow after the
announcement. The gauge had risen as much as 0.6 percent before
the decision. The ruble remained little changed at 29.63 against
the dollar and was steady at 38.7080 versus the euro.  Watching Unemployment  While it’s “premature” to say Russia’s labor market is
overheating, policy makers are watching the  unemployment rate  in
steering policy, Bank Rossii Chairman Sergey Ignatiev said.  “Unemployment in seasonally adjusted terms is close to
all-time lows,” Vladimir Osakovskiy, chief economist at Bank of
America Merill Lynch in Moscow, said in a telephone interview
April 6. “The last time they had this level of unemployment was
during the red-hot economy of 2007 and 2008.”  Unemployment fell to 6.5 percent in February from 6.6
percent the month before, the lowest level for February since at
least 1999, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In
seasonally adjusted terms, the jobless rate reached 5.8 percent
and was only lower in the second quarter of 2008, when Russia’s
economy was seen as “overheating,” according to Ignatiev.  The task of containing consumer-price growth within the
target range of between 5 percent and 6 percent in 2012 “won’t
be very easy,” after last year’s record-low 6.1 percent,
Ignatiev said April 5.  Ten of 19 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg forecast a
reduction of at least a quarter-point by the end of the year,
while three predicted the year-end rate would be higher than the
current 8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  