-- Russian Stocks Drop on Central Bank Rates Decision, Lower Crude
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2012-04-09T09:54:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/russian-stocks-drop-on-central-bank-rates-decision-lower-crude.html
Russian stocks dropped to their
lowest level in almost three months as oil declined and the
 central bank ’s decision to leave rates unchanged disappointed
some investors.  The Micex Index of 30 shares fell 0.7 percent to 1,486.67
by 1:43 p.m. in Moscow, its lowest intraday level since Jan. 17
after erasing an earlier gain of as much as 0.6 percent. OAO
Rosneft, Russia’s biggest oil producer, declined 0.8 percent
percent. OAO  Mechel (MTLR) , the coalmaker, slipped 1.1 percent while
 OAO Sberbank (SBER) , the nation’s largest lender, slid 1.9 percent.  Russia’s central bank refrained from cutting  interest rates 
for a fourth month after signaling that “medium-term”
inflation
risks are increasing. The equity market was disappointed by the
central bank’s inaction, according to  Ivan Tchakarov , chief
economist at  Renaissance Capital .  “It does not want to appear soft exactly when it is trying
to burnish its credentials of an institution that focuses much
more firmly on targeting inflation,” Tchakarov wrote in e-
mailed comments. “My view is that the Central Bank will
overstay its welcome and will start cutting too late.”  Oil, Russia’s chief export revenue earner, declined as much
as $1.51 to $101.80 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange  after Iran agreed to resume talks on
its nuclear program and economic reports in the U.S. and China
raised concern about fuel demand.  Bank Rossii left the refinancing rate at 8 percent, as
predicted by 21 of 22 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The
overnight auction-based repurchase rate was kept at 5.25 percent
and the overnight deposit rate will remain at 4 percent.  Russian stocks rallied by 8.2 percent in the first quarter,
the biggest quarterly gain in more than a year on signs the
global economy recovery is spurring demand for commodities. The
Micex’s 6.3 percent slump in the last two weeks of the first
quarter, its first two-week decline this year, was a
“pullback” that created a “very compelling buying
opportunity,” according to  Richard Ross , a technical analyst at
Auerbach Grayson in  New York .  “Buyers are still out there looking for opportunities to
get into the Micex, not to get out of the Micex,” Ross said.  The gauge trades for 5.8 times analysts’ earnings estimates
for member companies, below the 10.7 ratio for the MSCI Emerging
Markets Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  