-- Sean Coffey’s BlackRobe Startup Snags Simpson Thacher’s Chepiga
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-04-09T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/sean-coffey-s-blackrobe-startup-snags-simpson-thacher-s-chepiga.html
BlackRobe Capital Partners LLC, the
litigation finance company started by plaintiffs' lawyer Sean Coffey, hired retired Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP partner
Michael Chepiga to boost the firm’s corporate-defense expertise.  Chepiga joins BlackRobe as a managing partner and will
share responsibilities for business development, case
underwriting and firm management, the company said in a
statement. Chepiga is a 30-year veteran of Simpson Thacher and
a former member of the firm’s executive committee.  “Mike brings unsurpassed credibility in management suites
and corporate boardrooms, and will greatly enhance BlackRobe’s
ability to assist companies as they seek creative ways to
address the escalating costs of civil litigation,” Coffey said
in a statement.  Coffey, a former partner at New York’s  Bernstein Litowitz
Berger & Grossman LLP (142230L) , won more than $6.15 billion in
settlements in 2004 and 2005 for WorldCom Inc. investors
following a collapse of the company in an accounting fraud. He
started New York-based BlackRobe last year with Timothy
Scrantom, co-founder of Juridica Investments Ltd., after failing
at a run for New York Attorney General.  BlackRobe is one of a growing number of third-party
litigation financiers that fund lawsuits in exchange for a share
of the recovery. The company targets investments between $2
million and $8 million in complex commercial litigation cases,
including intellectual property, antitrust and breach of
contract disputes, that have the potential for damages in excess
of $50 million, Coffey said.  Commercial Deals  In addition to BlackRobe and Juridica, New York-based
Burford Group also operates in the space targeting commercial
deals. The global market for litigation financing has grown to
about $5 billion, Clive Ward, managing director for Tangerine
International Ltd., the promoter of a namesake lender to U.K.
law firms, said last month.  Chepiga, 64, who’s two years past Simpson Thacher’s
mandatory retirement age, was looking for something new when his
former courtroom adversary approached with  New York  Yankees
tickets and an idea.  “The nature of the legal practice has changed over the
years,” Chepiga said. “Clients want high-quality legal
services and want to control their costs. Law firms want to
deliver high quality but want to keep up their profits.
BlackRobe helps with both.”  While the firm doesn’t provide legal advice, the three
partners plan to be more actively involved in cases than just
financing them, Coffey said. He said he expects BlackRobe’s
model will help create market efficiency leading to more
“meritorious litigation.”  In addition to Chepiga, BlackRobe has hired a handful of
retired former litigators who help part-time to evaluate cases.
The firm, which is raising funds, has looked at about 80 cases
since last year and has closed investments in two, Coffey said.
He declined to identify the investments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  