-- Serbia’s Agrobanka Shareholders Want New Balance Sheet Audit
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-04-09T11:53:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/serbia-s-agrobanka-shareholders-want-new-balance-sheet-audit.html
The minority shareholders of
 Agrobanka AD (AGBN) , a Serbian bank that reported a loss last year and
was placed in receivership three months ago, demand another
audit before the lender is overhauled.  A new  shareholders’ meeting  to pick the auditor will be
held by the end of April, Branislav Bogdanovic, chairman of  AC
Broker , a Belgrade-based brokerage, said in a phone interview on
April 6.  The bank, in which the government holds a 20 percent
stake, had an unaudited 2011 loss of 29.7 billion dinar ($348
million).  AC Broker represents more than 20 percent of the mostly
foreign institutional investors with stakes in Agrobanka, who
have requested a new audit to check on the 2010 financial
statement signed by  KPMG ’s Serbian arm.  “ KPMG  assessed the bank’s financial performance as
positive for 2010” and said its capital stood at 167 million
euros ($218 million), AC Broker said. “However, as of June 30
last year the National Bank of  Serbia  assessed the bank’s
capital at 625 million dinars or 6.12 million euros. KPMG has
offered no explanation for the difference,” Bogdanovic said.  KPMG “has implemented all relevant domestic rules, KPMG’s
standardized procedures and international auditing standards,”
the global accounting firm said in a written answer to Bloomberg
questions, e-mailed today.  Saving the bank, whose name indicates the main focus on
agriculture, will stop ripple effects in the economy, the
banking industry and the  capital market , said Bogdanovic, whose
brokerage canceled a market-making contract in February “due to
lack of information and excessive share price volatility.”  Overhaul Plan  Serbia’s central bank fired Agrobanka’a management on Dec.
29 and placed it in receivership after inspectors discovered its
capital didn’t match the risk it had assumed with its business.
The bank, whose market share was 2.3 percent in 2011, ranked
12th among 33 banks operating in the Balkan country in terms of
assets.  The government agreed with the lender’s shareholders on an
overhaul plan, aimed at boosting the bank’s capital, Bogdanovic
said.  The plan, approved by the central bank, calls on the
government to replace Agrobanka’s bad assets with “interest-
yielding  government bonds ,” which will boost its capital
adequacy ratio from zero to 6 percent, Bogdanovic said. The bank
will try to meet the required minimum capital adequacy ratio of
12 percent by the end of September.  Part of the agreement is that there will be neither a major
ownership change nor “recapitalizations” until the bank meets
the capital requirement, Bogdanovic said. Deputy Finance
Minister Goran Radosavljevic said on Feb. 1 that the bank would
need at least 100 million euros to put it back in business.  The bank reported the loss after a full-year pretax profit
of 1.18 billion dinars in 2010 and a loss of 2.27 billion dinars
at the end of September 2011. The central bank withdrew the
report from the  website  just hours after publishing it on April
2 saying that “Agrobanka is still in receivership.”  Agrobanka’s shares dropped 6.22 percent to 919 dinars per
share at 11:37 a.m. in Belgrade, according to the  Belgrade Stock
Exchange  figures. Its shares fell 34 percent from April 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  