-- Singapore Regulator Sues to Freeze China Sky Ex-CEO Funds
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2012-04-09T12:32:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/singapore-regulator-sues-to-freeze-china-sky-ex-ceo-funds.html
The Monetary Authority of  Singapore 
is seeking a court order to freeze the funds of Huang Zhong Xuan,
the former chief executive officer of  China Sky Chemical Fibre
Co. (CSCF) , which is being probed for regulatory breaches.  The financial watchdog wants to restrain Huang, a Chinese
national, from taking or sending money out of his Credit Suisse
Group AG account in Singapore as  China  Sky and its directors may
be fined as a result of the probe, according to papers filed
with the city’s High Court on March 28.  “It is imperative that assets should be available to
satisfy such liabilities,” Lee King See, deputy director of
enforcement at MAS said in court papers. “There is a grave risk
that the monies in the bank account are being dissipated by”
Huang, who isn’t in Singapore. A closed hearing is scheduled for
April 11.  The regulator’s move is the latest in a series of disputes
the Chinese nylon-fiber maker and its directors have had with
Singapore authorities. China Sky and its board are being
investigated by the white-collar crime agency for potential
breaches of securities laws, after “a number of
irregularities” were uncovered by the  Singapore Exchange (SGX) ,
according to court papers.  Huang, who quit as CEO on Feb. 8 for what he called
personal health reasons, didn’t reply to two e-mails seeking
comment. Three calls to China Sky’s number in Fujian were
unanswered. MAS said in an e-mailed response to queries it’s not
appropriate to comment on current court proceedings.  Court Papers  Huang had transferred about $10 million out of the bank
account on March 5 and on March 27 gave instructions to move the
remaining $3.7 million, according to court papers.  Credit Suisse provided copies of Huang’s account opening
forms and banking details from Dec. 6, 2010 to March 27 to the
Commercial Affairs Department who asked for the details on March
26, according to MAS’s court filing.  Edna Lam, a Singapore-based spokeswoman at Credit Suisse,
declined to comment.  The Commercial Affairs Department, which began the probe on
Feb. 16, is examining possible offenses including making false
and misleading statements as well as failing to disclose
material information, according to the filing.  Such offenses may be  punishable  with a criminal fine of as
much as S$250,000 ($198,000) and a jail term of as long as 7
years or a fine of as much as S$2 million as a civil penalty.  Bank Lawsuit  Huang is also being sued by a unit of  Malaysia ’s  Hong Leong
Bank Bhd. (HLBK)  for failing to pay S$7.4 million on a share margin
facility, according to the lender’s court papers. He had pledged
part of his stake in China Sky to the bank, according to the
complaint.  Huang, the largest shareholder in China Sky through his
Rock Mart Equities Pte has a 37.8 percent stake, according to
 data  compiled by Bloomberg.  The  Singapore Exchange  sued China Sky in a separate lawsuit
on Jan. 6 to compel it to appoint a special auditor to look into
transactions between the firm and its Audit Committee Chairman
Lai Seng Kwoon as well as an aborted land acquisition in China.
The case was dropped on Jan. 16, without a reason provided.  China Sky has disputed that it breached any listing rules
or infringed  securities law , MAS said in its papers. The
Quanzhou City, Fujian-based firm ignored the bourse’s directive
to appoint a special auditor and said some demands made by the
exchange “were extremely unreasonable” and likened China Sky’s
position to a “bullied child.”  Independent Directors  Separately, former independent director Yeap Wai Kong is
seeking permission to overturn the Singapore Exchange’s public
rebuke on Dec. 16.  All three independent directors, Yeap, Lai and Er Kwong Wah,
quit Jan. 5, citing non-compliance with the bourse’s order to
name the auditor. Group financial controller Hui San Wing
resigned on Feb. 8, citing a lack of leadership, guidance and
support from the CEO and independent directors.  Investors have pressed for tougher laws to prosecute
executives of Chinese firms after scandals from  North America  to
 Hong Kong  wiped out their market value. Singapore and China do
not have an extradition treaty, neither are foreign court
rulings automatically recognized in Chinese courts.  China Sky had 2,835 shareholders as at Dec. 9, according to
the court papers.  Trading in China Sky shares has been suspended since Nov.
17, a day after the exchange first ordered the company to
appoint the special auditor. The shares closed trading on Nov.
16 at S$0.102, tumbling 96 percent from their peak of S$2.74 in
October 2007.  The cases are Monetary Authority of Singapore v Huang Zhong
Xuan & Anor OS311/2012 and HL Bank v Huang Zhong Xuan & Ors
S158/2012 in the Singapore  High Court   To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at   dwong19@bloomberg.net  