-- Singapore’s MAS to Hold Currency-Gain Pace, Survey Shows
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-04-10T09:29:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/singapore-s-mas-to-hold-currency-gain-pace-survey-shows.html
The Monetary Authority of  Singapore 
will maintain the current pace of appreciation of the city
state’s currency on speculation consumer-price gains will limit
the authority’s scope to ease policy, analysts said.  Officials will hold the current rate of the local dollar’s
advance and refrain from altering its trading band, according to
19 of 21 financial companies surveyed by Bloomberg News. Two
said there is a chance the central bank will either keep its
stance unchanged or increase the band’s slope to levels
prior to its  last review  in October. The government will
announce the currency decision on April 13, the same day it
releases preliminary gross domestic product data.  Core inflation is “proving to be more persistent,” Khoon Goh, a Singapore-based senior currency strategist at ANZ
National Bank, wrote in an e-mailed response to questions. “We
see the MAS maintaining the current appreciation slope to keep
inflation within target.”  The MAS is forecast to join central banks from  Australia  to
 Thailand , which refrained from raising benchmark rates this
month and last as they weigh inflation risks. Economists predict
policy makers in  Indonesia  and  South Korea  will also hold
borrowing costs when they gather this week.  Singapore’s central bank uses the  exchange rate  rather than
borrowing costs to conduct monetary policy, adjusting the pace
of appreciation or depreciation against an undisclosed trade-
weighted band of currencies by changing the slope, width and
center of the band. A flatter slope allows slower appreciation
or depreciation over time.  Core Inflation  The MAS announced a reduction to the slope of its policy
band on Oct. 14, citing an “expected moderation in core
inflation.” It tightened monetary conditions at each of its
previous three gatherings.  Costs in the economy have been more persistent, and the MAS
is “very concerned” about prices, Minister for Trade and
Industry Lim Hng Kiang said yesterday. The authority doesn’t
have a formal inflation target, Lim said, speaking in
parliament.  The city state’s  consumer price index  rose 4.6 percent in
February from a year earlier, after climbing 4.8 percent in
January, the Department of Statistics said March 23.  The core inflation rate, which excludes accommodation and
private transportation costs, was 3 percent. The measure may be
about 3 percent in the next few months, the central bank and
trade ministry said in a monthly statement on price trends
released on the same day.  Singapore’s dollar traded at S$1.2612 against its U.S.
counterpart as of 6:53 a.m. local time, up from this year’s low
of S$1.3006. The median forecast shows the currency may advance
to S$1.25 by June 30 and strengthen to S$1.23 by year-end.  It has appreciated 2.8 percent since Dec. 31, the
fourth-biggest gain against the  U.S. dollar  among the
most-traded currencies. In 2011, the  Singapore dollar  gained
1 percent versus the greenback and advanced against 10 of 16
major peers.  The  economy  probably rebounded from a contraction, growing
7 percent in the first quarter from the previous three months,
according to the median of 11 estimates in a separate Bloomberg
survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  