-- Rosetta Stone Trademark Claims Against Google Revived
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-04-09T23:48:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/some-rosetta-stone-trademark-claims-against-google-restored-1-.html
Rosetta Stone Inc. (RST)  had some
trademark-infringement claims against  Google Inc. (GOOG) , the world’s
largest Internet search company, restored by a federal appeals
court and returned to the trial court for further consideration.  Rosetta Stone  had asked the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in
Richmond,  Virginia , to overturn U.S. District Judge Gerald Bruce Lee’s decision in 2010 that Google’s sales of Rosetta Stone’s
trademarked phrases as keywords in Web searches wouldn’t confuse
customers. Rosetta Stone, a maker of language-learning software,
claimed the keywords were sold to rivals and counterfeiters.  “A reasonable trier of fact could find that Google
intended to cause confusion in that it acted with the knowledge
that confusion was very likely to result from the use of its
marks,” the appeals judges said in their ruling today.  Google sells advertisers the rights to use certain words or
phrases as keywords for the paid ads, known as sponsored links,
on  its search site.  The links direct users to the advertisers’
websites. Advertisers bid what they will pay Google for each
click on an ad triggered by the keyword. The highest bid and
other factors determine whether the keywords can be used.  The keywords that Google sold to other businesses include
“Rosetta Stone” and “Rosettastone.com.” Google, based in
 Mountain View ,  California , derives most of its revenue from ad
sales.  “We are very pleased with the opinion, and we think it is
an important precedent,” Clifford Sloan, a lawyer for Rosetta
Stone, said in an e-mail.  ‘Took Action’  “Each time Rosetta Stone informed Google that a particular
advertiser was selling counterfeit Rosetta Stone products,
Google promptly took action including removing the
advertisement,” Google said in its appeal brief.  The appeals court vacated three summary-judgment claims
that had gone against Rosetta Stone and affirmed two rulings
that that went in Google’s favor.  There was no evidence that Google “acts jointly with any
of the advertisers to control the counterfeit Rosetta Stone
products,” the judges said.  Diana Adair, a Google spokeswoman, said the company is
confident it will win what remains of the case.  “Users searching on Google benefit from being able to
choose from a variety of competing advertisers,” Adair said.
“We think that the legitimate use of trademarks as keyword
triggers helps consumers to make more informed choices.”  Rosetta Stone, founded in 1992, provides software for
learning more than 30 languages.  Google fell $1.48 to $630.84 in  trading  in  New York .
Rosetta Stone dropped 21 cents, or 2.1 percent, to $9.69.  The case is Rosetta Stone v. Google, 10-2007, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the  Fourth Circuit  (Richmond, Virginia).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 