-- SouthernSun Returning 41% as No. 1 Small Cap Bets on Agriculture
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2012-04-09T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/southernsun-returning-41-as-no-1-small-cap-bets-on-agriculture.html
Michael Cook, founder of the
SouthernSun Small Cap Fund, was born and raised in  Memphis ,
 Tennessee , and he likes it there just fine.  When he decided to go into finance, Cook, now 55, joined as
a broker at the local Merrill Lynch & Co. office. He moved into
 money management  in the trust department of Memphis’s own, now-
defunct Union Planters Bank. After getting a pink slip in 1989
when the bank sold its asset management unit, he could have
sought work among the big fund firms in  New York  and  Boston .
Instead, he stayed in Memphis and started  SouthernSun Asset
Management LLC .  Cook’s out-of-the-way location has done nothing to hurt
performance, Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its May
issue. His $300 million small-cap fund returned an annualized
average of 41.1 percent per year for the three years ended on
Feb. 17, helping him win the top spot in the U.S. small-cap
category in Bloomberg Markets’ annual ranking of mutual funds.
Average total return for the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  for the
same period was 22.5 percent.  Cook’s fund, whose largest investments are in agriculture
and construction equipment companies, was tied for third-best in
a ranking of all U.S. diversified funds.  The ranking measures market performance in a time of huge
volatility, with stocks and bonds crashing in 2008 and shooting
up in 2009. Cook’s fund is an example; it gained just 9.7
percent on average over five years. The S&P 500 Index returned
0.8 percent annually in the same period.  Five Criteria  The Bloomberg Markets stock and bond fund rankings include
U.S.-domiciled funds with at least $250 million under
management. Funds are ranked by total returns for one, three and
five years and by their Sharpe ratios for three and five years.
The Sharpe ratio measures the performance of a fund adjusted for
risk.  Five of the top 10 funds in the diversified U.S. equities
fund ranking manage small-cap or midcap stocks.  “Smaller companies tend to have more business risk, and
they can be a little more volatile than large-cap funds,” says
Katie Reichart, a senior fund analyst at Chicago-based research
firm Morningstar Inc. “But small-cap value funds, in particular,
have had some of the best long-term returns.”  SouthernSun is such a fund. The category had an annualized
return of 32 percent during the three years through March 12,
compared with 23 percent for large-cap value funds, according to
Morningstar. Over five years, small value had a 2.6 percent
return, outperforming large value by more than 2 percentage
points.  Iben Changes Jobs  Global equity funds showed the same pattern as small caps,
with high returns over three years and modest results over five.
The good news for Chicago-based  Nuveen Investments , a unit of
Madison Dearborn Partners LLC, is that funds managed by David Iben continued to dominate the global equity category, taking
three of the top four spots. In Bloomberg Markets’ 2011 ranking,
funds managed by Iben were Nos. 1, 2 and 4.  The bad news for Nuveen is that Iben, head of the firm’s
Tradewinds Global Investors subsidiary, will leave in June to
join Boston-based hedge fund Vinik Asset Management LP, founded
by former Fidelity Investments stock picker Jeffrey Vinik.  Nuveen spokeswoman Kathleen Cardoza says that Iben will be
missed but that Tradewinds has a “deep team” of fund managers.
He will be replaced by Emily Alejos and Andrew Thelen, Nuveen
veterans who will serve as co-chief investment officers.  Prudential Fund No. 1  In global bonds, the $1.6 billion Prudential  Total Return
Bond Fund (PDBAX)  was No. 1 after returning 12.6 percent annually during
the three years ended on Feb. 17. The fund, run by  Newark , New
Jersey-based Prudential Financial Inc.’s Prudential Investments
LLC, competes with go-anywhere bond funds such as  Bill Gross ’s
Pimco Total Return Fund and William Eigen’s JPMorgan Strategic
Income Opportunities Fund.  Michael Collins , who’s the lead manager of the Prudential
fund, attributes its strong risk-adjusted returns to his desire
to keep the fund diversified.  “A lot of our competitors seem to have a bias toward being
overweight in specific areas, an example being a big interest-
rate bet or a global macro bet,” Collins says. “We’ll rotate
aggressively across sectors, but we always ensure that we don’t
have too many eggs in one basket.”  Collins says he knows bond returns will suffer when
 interest rates  rise, yet he’s confident demographic trends will
keep bond funds popular. As the U.S. baby boomer generation
heads into retirement, more investors, he says, will be relying
on the relative safety of debt.  2020 Fund Wins  The top U.S. bond fund is the $303 million American Century
Investment  Zero Coupon 2020 Fund (BTTTX) , which took advantage of the
spike in the value of intermediate and long-term U.S.
Treasuries. The fund invests primarily in zero-coupon securities
that mature in 2020, when the fund will liquidate. It returned
13.8 percent annualized during the past three years and 15
percent over five years.  The fund, managed by Robert Gahagan and James Platz, is one
of a series of funds opened by  Kansas City , Missouri-based
 American Century  Investment Management Inc. in 1985 and whose
bond purchases are set to five-year intervals.  Much of its holdings are in U.S. Treasury strips: bonds
whose coupon payments have been packaged and sold separately,
leaving only the maturity payment for the holder. They’re
typically sold at a discount. The fund appeals to investors who
know they’ll need a payout in or near 2020.  Gahagan, 53, says that investors aren’t likely to flee even
if interest rates rise, which will drive down the price of
bonds.  Volatile, Predictable  “The fund can be volatile, but, remember, many investors
have locked in a predictable rate of return,” he says.  SouthernSun’s Cook is a plain-spoken Southerner who gave up
his religion and philosophy studies at  Covenant College  in
Lookout Mountain,  Georgia , before going into finance. He relies
on his love of research and of “good old-fashioned logic” to
generate returns for his investors. He’s suspicious of what he
sees as the tendency of many asset managers to overcomplicate
the process.  “We have become mesmerized by what we think complex
algorithmic notions can yield,” Cook says. “By digitizing
things, we think we have all the necessary information to
correct anything, and it’s just not true.”  Cook has always focused on small to midsize companies
because they, too, keep things simple and are best at turning
good management decisions into profits.  ‘A Unique Niche’  “We make sure the business has a unique niche and has a
process where they can move ideas to execution,” he says.  His favorite current investment is  Agco Corp. (AGCO) , a Duluth,
Georgia, agriculture equipment maker.  Cook manages a total of $2.6 billion, most of it in
separate accounts for institutional investors -- one of which is
Memphis-based  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  SouthernSun slowly built its client
list from local families and businesses. Cook’s first client was
his father, who, Cook says, still calls him twice a week “to
tell me what I’m doing wrong.”  Cook began marketing his firm when he launched the  mutual
fund  in 2003. Focused on companies with a market capitalization
of $500 million to $2 billion, it’s his only retail fund. As its
 returns  have climbed, so have its assets, swelling almost
fourfold in the 15 months ended on Feb. 29. Cook runs an
investment team of five people, including his 30-year-old son,
Phillip.  While Cook stresses simplicity in value-oriented stock
picking, he emphasizes that it’s also rigorous.  ‘Limb From Limb’  “We pore over the financials, tear them limb from limb,
visit the management,” he says. “I have to be able to understand
who the critical decision makers are.”  After months of study, the fund typically takes a position
no larger than 1 to 1.5 percent of its  assets  when it first
invests in a company.  “I don’t think you ever really know a business until you
own it,” he says. “Our philosophy is never to make huge
mistakes.”  The fund’s largest holding as of Dec. 31 was  Darling
International Inc. (DAR) , a recycler of animal byproducts based in
Irving,  Texas , which returned an annualized 75 percent during
the three years ended on March 12. The stock of another holding,
Brentwood, Tennessee-based  Tractor Supply Co. (TSCO) , also rose an
average of 75 percent over the period.  Cook says the firm will open its second mutual fund in the
spring. It will follow an  investment strategy  -- initiated in
1996 for the firm’s institutional accounts -- that focuses on
companies with a market cap of $1 billion to $8 billion.  “Our intent is just to keep plugging away,” Cook says.
“Hopefully, we’ll make our clients money and not overly impress
them with a process.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story: Michael
Serrill at   mserrill@bloomberg.net ; Christian
Baumgaertel at   cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 