-- Southwest Plan Advances for Flights Abroad at Hobby
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2012-04-09T22:53:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/southwest-plan-advances-for-flights-abroad-at-hobby.html
Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  won backing
from Houston’s aviation director to add international flights at
the city’s secondary airport after larger competitor  United
Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  objected.  The proposal to expand at William P. Hobby Airport would
add 1.5 million passengers a year, 10,000 jobs and an annual
economic benefit of $1.6 billion for the metropolitan area,
according to a memo today to Mayor Annise Parker from Mario
Diaz, director of aviation for the Houston Airport System.  George Bush Intercontinental Airport is Houston’s main
overseas gateway and the biggest hub for United, which along
with its regional partners controls about 80 percent of
passenger traffic there, while Southwest has about 90 percent of
traffic at Hobby, where flights are chiefly domestic.  Parker will review Diaz’s analysis before deciding whether
to accept the recommendation, which also needs approval from the
City Council and U.S. regulators, the airport system  said on its
website . United asked the mayor last week to defer any decision
on Southwest’s request pending further study.  Southwest proposed spending as much as $100 million for a
five-gate terminal with customs facilities, breaking with a
history of U.S.-only flying. New Hobby flights would include
Mexico, the Caribbean and elsewhere in  Latin America  as Dallas-
based Southwest absorbs the 2011 purchase of  AirTran Holdings
Inc. (AAI) , which already serves some of those destinations.  ‘Fundamentally Flawed’  The assumptions in the city of Houston’s analysis are
“fundamentally flawed,” Christen David, a spokeswoman for
Chicago-based United, said today in an e-mail. United’s own,
unfinished assessment shows that Southwest’s plan would
“significantly harm” Intercontinental, David said.  United Chief Executive Officer Jeff Smisek, who ran
Houston-based Continental Airlines before its 2010 merger with
United, wrote to Parker to request the delay and told employees
that the airline’s Houston hub would suffer “serious injury.”  Hobby’s expansion would imperil the airline’s $700 million
investment at its Intercontinental hub and could result in 1,300
United job cuts in Houston, Smisek wrote in an April 4 memo.  “I didn’t expect United to agree with it,” Bob
Montgomery, Southwest’s vice president for properties, said in
an interview. “That’s why the city did an independent study. I
expect whatever study is done by whoever, it will find objection
from United. They enjoy a near monopoly in that marketplace and
I believe they want to keep that monopoly.”  New flights could start in mid- to late 2015, he said.  Intercontinental is about 30 miles (48 kilometers) from
Hobby and is closer to some of the newer business and
residential developments on Houston’s northern and western
fringes. Hobby airport is in the city’s southeastern quadrant.  While Intercontinental has been home for decades to most of
the region’s international flights, overseas flying isn’t banned
at Hobby, and both Southwest and Continental expressed interest
in adding such flights there as recently as 2003, Diaz said on a
conference call with reporters.  Two airlines in  Mexico  have also expressed interest in a
new international terminal at Hobby, Diaz said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta  at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  