-- Spanish Bonds Fall Even as Rajoy Unveils More Budget Cuts
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   a n d   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-04-10T11:27:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/spain-confronts-crisis-threat-as-rajoy-seeks-deficit-cuts.html
Spain ’s efforts to calm investors
with an additional 10 billion euros ($13 billion) of budget cuts
in education and health failed to stem concerns the nation may
be the fourth euro member to need a bailout.  The yield on Spain’s 10-year benchmark bond surged almost
20 basis points to 5.94 percent today as Economy Minister Luis de Guindos declined to rule out a rescue for Spain and Bank of
Spain Governor Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez said the nation’s
lenders may need additional capital if the economy weakens more
than expected.  Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy yesterday unexpectedly
announced the 10 billion-euro package, less than two weeks after
unveiling the most austere budget in more than three decades.
Rajoy is targeting basic public services for the first time
since his election in December in a bid to convince investors he
can bring order to the nation’s finances.  “There are growing fears that the Spanish economy is
caught in a pernicious circle,” Nicholas Spiro, managing
director of Spiro Sovereign Strategy in  London , said in an e-
mailed response to questions. “The weakness of government
finances, the fragility of banks and worries about the scale of
the recession all feed on each other.”  Yields Jump  Spain’s  10-year borrowing costs  have jumped more than one
percentage point since March 2, when Rajoy announced that Spain
will miss its 2012  budget-deficit  goal approved by the European
Union. Spain overshot last year’s target and the nation is
battling its second  recession  since 2009.  Euro-region finance ministers on March 12 settled on a
shortfall goal of 5.3 percent of gross domestic product for
Spain in 2012, leaving it unchanged at 3 percent for 2013.  Rajoy will spell out his planned reforms at a meeting of
People’s Party parliamentary deputies tomorrow, an official in
the government’s communications department, who asked not to be
named in line with its policy, said in a phone interview
yesterday. Health and education, the areas Rajoy said he would
cut, are run by regional administrations, and the premier will
meet today with Esperanza Aguirre, head of the  Madrid  region.  The government forecasts Spanish public debt will surge to
a record 79.8 percent of GDP this year even as it seeks to cut
the budget deficit by 3.2 percentage points of GDP in one year.  ‘Ambitious’ Reforms  The country is working on “ambitious” health reforms and
has to put regional finances “in order,” Budget Minister
Cristobal Montoro said in an interview on RNE radio today. He
also said that increasing the value-added tax would be a “deep
error” that would extend the recession and hurt consumption.  Spain doesn’t plan to seek aid for its banks from European
rescue funds as European Central Bank lending has provided them
with a “very considerable liquidity cushion,” Montoro said.  The ECB has lent banks in the euro region more than 1
trillion euros for three years since December, propping up
demand for sovereign bonds. The ECB should be more aggressive by
buying more public and private debt, Alfredo Saenz, chief
executive officer of Banco Santander SA, said in Madrid today,
calling for “stronger European quantitative easing.”  Charles Dallara , head of the  Institute of International
Finance , who negotiated a Greek debt swap on behalf of private
bondholders, said  Europe  is focusing too much on austerity,
threatening its economic recovery.  Reassuring Investors  With the threat looming of a resurgence of the region’s
sovereign debt crisis, Dallara called on European officials to
enhance their crisis-fighting tools. This is “essential for
reassuring markets that the euro area has the resources and
commitment to assist member countries facing contagion risks and
difficulties in accessing  capital markets ,” he wrote in a
letter prepared for next week’s meetings of the  International
Monetary Fund  and of the  World Bank .  “As a result of Spain’s challenges, sentiment towards its
sovereign bonds is now the bellwether for Europe’s debt
crisis,” Mansoor Mohi-uddin, chief currency strategist at  UBS
AG (UBSN) , wrote in an e-mailed note on April 7. “If investor appetite
wanes, then  currency markets  will start to price in either ECB
rate cuts to help restore sentiment, or Madrid requires external
assistance from its European Union partners.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  