-- Spain to Study Making Rich Pay for Health, de Guindos Says
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-04-09T15:17:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/spain-to-study-making-rich-pay-for-health-de-guindos-tells-ser.html
Spain should consider making
wealthier people pay for some of their health care as the
country strives to narrow its  budget deficit , Economy Minister
Luis de Guindos said.  “I believe we have to have a debate between the central
government and the autonomous regions and think about whether in
the current situation we have to provide all the  health services 
for free to a gentleman who earns more than 100,000 euros
($130,000),” de Guindos said today in  an interview  with Cadena
Ser radio station. “It is a very important debate in which the
future of the quality of health care in Spain is in play.”  De Guindos’s comments follow ones he made in an April 7
interview with the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung newspaper in
which he said “a reform of the public sector, especially health
care and education” was next on the government’s agenda as it
bids to overhaul the euro region’s fourth-biggest economy.
Health care and education account for about 60 percent of
expenditure in  Spain ’s 17 regions, which handle more than a
third of the nation’s payments.  Carlos Floriano, vice-secretary for organization in the
ruling  People’s Party , said in a televised news conference today
that de Guindos’s comments were a “personal reflection.” The
party favors free health care, he said.  Co-Payments  De Guindos told Ser that changing the health-care system is
vital for guaranteeing the sustainability of high-quality
services. The government does not plan to centralize services
such as health that are carried out by regional governments,
said de Guindos, adding that he doesn’t regard a general patient
co-payment for health care as a “panacea.”  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  will spell out the
government’s planned reforms to a meeting of PP parliamentary
deputies on April 11, an official in the government’s
communications department, who asked not to be named in line
with its policy, said in a phone interview today.  De Guindos said a recent surge in Spain’s borrowing costs
was due to investors’ concerns about recession in  Europe  and the
“vicious circle” it might cause and also Spanish regional
government finances. He told Ser the government doesn’t plan any
further tax increases this year and that Spain’s economy will
return to growth in 2013 with the labor market stabilizing in
the fourth quarter after a “tremendous hemorrhage in job
destruction.”  “After a very difficult year, the sun will come out again
from an economic point of view,” de Guindos said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  