-- Spain Seeks 10 Billion Euros in Health, Education Savings
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2012-04-09T19:16:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/spain-seeks-10-billion-euros-savings-on-health-school-programs.html
Spain  plans to save more than 10
billion euros ($13 billion) from health and education programs
and will accelerate the sale of banking stakes to reduce the
budget deficit amid the European debt crisis.  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  met today with ministers to
discuss measures to eliminate overlaps and boost efficiencies in
health and education, the government said today in a statement.
Spain will also speed up the sale of its majority stakes in
lenders while studying ways to increase access to credit, the
administration said.  Rajoy, who took office in December, is trying to narrow the
deficit to 5.3 percent of gross domestic product this year from
last year’s 8.5 percent. Investors, concerned he won’t be able
to manage Spain’s biggest deficit reduction in at least three
decades, last week pushed  yields  on Spanish debt to the highest
since December. Rajoy twice last week referred to the
possibility of Spain seeking a bailout.  Spain today reiterated its goal of cutting the  deficit  to
3 percent of GDP in 2013 as it expects new financial-stability
measures and “structural reforms” will reverse the recession and
stop job-destruction, it said.  Regional Deficits  The regional governments’ deficit will be cut to 1.5
percent of GDP this year, the central government said in the
statement. Regional governments had an average deficit of 2.9
percent last year, and their overspending was the biggest cause
for Spain’s overshooting its 2011 deficit goal by 2.5 percentage
points.  The Spanish government said it will take steps in the next
few weeks including state-asset sales and changes to boost
savings and the competitiveness and flexibility of the economy.
It cited energy and housing-rental rules as targets, as well as
measures to improve entrepreneurship and research.  Earlier today Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said in  an
interview  with Cadena Ser radio station that Spain should
consider making wealthier people pay for some of their health
care as the country strives to narrow its  budget deficit .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  