-- RSA’s Former CEO Haste Paid 2.77 Million Pounds in 2011
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-04-09T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/u-k-house-price-gauge-rises-to-highest-in-21-months-rics-says.html
A U.K. house-price index rose to a
21-month high in March as first-time buyers sought to take
advantage of an expiring property-tax exemption, the  Royal
Institution  of Chartered Surveyors said.  The gauge rose 3 points from February to minus 10, the
highest reading since June 2010, according to a report today e-
mailed by London-based RICS, which conducts a monthly survey of
property surveyors nationwide. Still, a reading below zero shows
more surveyors saw price drops than gains last month.  The figures reflect Britons taking advantage of a two-year
stamp-duty exemption for first-time buyers purchasing a home
costing less than 250,000 pounds ($400,000) before it ended on
March 24. A continuation of this year’s upward trend in the
gauge is uncertain given economic difficulties faced by the
U.K., RICS Chief Economist Simon Rubinsohn said in a statement.  “Demand saw a slight boost in March as many first time
buyers looked to beat the stamp duty holiday deadline,”
Rubinsohn said. “There has been a gentle increase in activity
across the market in the early part of the year but it remains
to be seen whether this can continue, given the changes in the
budget and ongoing problems affecting the economy.”  U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  raised
taxes on home purchases of 2 million pounds or more to 7 percent
from 5 percent in his annual budget on March 21. The U.K.
economy probably just avoided a technical recession of two
consecutive quarters of falling economic output by growing 0.1
percent in the first quarter, the National Institute of Economic
and Social Research said on April 6.  Price Expectations  RICS’s index of price expectations for the next three
months fell to minus two in March from zero the month before,
while a measure for expectations over the next year dropped to
nine from 11, after rising above zero in February for the first
time in 21 months.  A gauge of expected sales declined one point to 20 while
RICS’s index of new buyer enquiries, an indicator of demand,
climbed to 9 from 3. A measure of sales per surveyor fell to
15.5 from 15.9.  London  was the only region out of 12 tracked by RICS where
more surveyors reported price rises than falls, recording a
price gauge of 58 in March. The measure for  Northern Ireland  was
the weakest at minus 52.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  