-- U.S. March Conference Board Employment Trends Index (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-04-09T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/u-s-march-conference-board-employment-trends-index-text-.html
Following is the text of U.S. employment trends index
from the Conference Board.  The Conference Board Employment Trends Index Declines Slightly in March;
First Decline since May 2011  The Conference Board Employment Trends Index decreased 0.18 percent in March to
107.28, down from the revised figure of 107.47 in February. The March figure is
still up over 5 percent (5.2) from the same month a year ago.  “After five months of strong growth, the ETI declined slightly in March,” said
 Gad Levanon , Director of Macroeconomic Research at The Conference Board.  “Together with the disappointing job growth released on Friday, and only
moderate improvement in economic activity in recent months, it seems that employment
growth in December to February, averaging almost 250,000 a month, may not be a
sustainable trend.”  March’s decline in the ETI was driven by negative contributions from three of
the eight components. The declining indicators - beginning with the largest negative
contributor - were Percentage of Firms with Positions Not Able to Fill Right Now,
Percentage of Respondents Who Say They Find “Jobs Hard to Get” and Number of
Employees Hired by the Temporary-Help Industry. The Employment Trends Index
aggregates eight labor-market indicators, each of which has proven accurate in its
own area. Aggregating individual indicators into a composite index filters out
“noise” to show underlying trends more clearly.  The eight labor-market indicators aggregated into the Employment Trends Index
include:  Percentage of Respondents Who Say They Find “Jobs Hard to Get” (The Conference
Board Consumer Confidence Survey)  Initial Claims for  Unemployment Insurance  (U.S. Department of Labor)  Percentage of Firms With Positions Not Able to Fill Right Now (National
Federation of Independent Business Research Foundation) *Statistical imputation for
the recent month **Statistical imputation for two most recent months  Number of Employees Hired by the Temporary-Help Industry ( U.S. Bureau of Labor
Statistics )  Part-Time Workers for Economic Reasons (BLS)  Job Openings (BLS)**  Industrial Production  (Federal Reserve Board)*  Real Manufacturing and Trade Sales (U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis)**  The Conference Board publishes the Employment Trends Index monthly, at 10 a.m. ET on
the Monday that follows each Friday release of the Bureau of Labor Statistics
Employment Situation report. The technical notes to this series are available on The
Conference Board website:  http://www.conferenceboard . org/data/eti.cfm.  ABOUT THE CONFERENCE BOARD The Conference Board is a global, independent business
membership and research association working in the public interest. Our mission is
unique: To provide the world’s leading organizations with the practical knowledge
they need to improve their performance and better serve society. The Conference
Board is a nonadvocacy, not-for-profit entity holding 501 (c) (3) tax-exempt status
in the  United States . www.conference-board.org  Employment Trends Index (ETI) 2012 Publication Schedule
Index Release Date (10 AM ET)      Data for the Month
Monday, May 7                          April
Monday, June 4                     May
Monday, July 9                     June
Monday, August 6                     July
Monday, September 10                August
Tuesday, October 9 *                September
Monday, November 5                     October
Monday, December 10                November  * Tuesday release due to holiday  SOURCE: The Conference Board
 http://www.conference-board.org 
