-- U.S. Corn Seeding Speeds Up as Warm Weather Aids Fieldwork
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2012-04-09T20:51:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/u-s-corn-seeding-speeds-up-as-warm-weather-aids-fieldwork-1-.html
U.S. farmers are planting corn
faster than last year as warm, dry weather aided fieldwork in
 Iowa  and  Illinois , the largest producers, the Department of
Agriculture said.  About 7 percent of the crop was seeded as of yesterday, up
from 3 percent a week earlier and 3 percent at the same time in
2011, the USDA said today in a  report . Little or no rain fell in
Nebraska, Iowa and northern Illinois in the past week, National
Weather Service data show. Precipitation is expected this week,
boosting crop development, Telvent DTN said in a report today.  “A few people took a stab at it last week and got some
corn planted,” said  Tomm Pfitzenmaier , a partner at Summit
Commodity Brokerage in  Des Moines , Iowa. “Everybody’s going to
be planting like crazy this week. We’ve had soil temperatures as
high as the mid-60s. If you can get into the 50s you’re good on
planting.”  Corn futures fell 1.4 percent to $6.49 a bushel on the
Chicago Board of Trade today. The price is little changed this
year on speculation that U.S. growers will plant the most since
1937 amid favorable weather and rising global consumption.  The winter-wheat crop was rated 61 percent good or
excellent as of yesterday, up from 58 percent a week earlier and
36 percent a year earlier, the USDA said. Rain during the past
week improved prospects for crops coming out of dormancy in
Kansas and  Oklahoma , the biggest U.S. growers.  An estimated 21 percent of spring wheat was planted as of
yesterday, up from 8 percent a week earlier and 3 percent a year
earlier. The cotton crop was 9 percent planted, up from 7
percent a week ago and 7 percent at the same time a year
earlier, the USDA said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in  London  at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick McKiernan at 
 pmckiernan@bloomberg.net  