-- UBS Faces Billionaire Olenicoff in Lawsuit Over His Tax Felony
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-04-09T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/ubs-faces-billionaire-olenicoff-in-lawsuit-over-his-tax-felony.html
UBS AG (UBSN)  and billionaire Igor Olenicoff are scheduled to clash in court today over his claim
that the bank bears blame for his failure to declare
$200 million in offshore accounts on U.S. tax returns.  Olenicoff, 69, a real-estate developer, pleaded guilty in
2007 to filing a false tax return, admitting he didn’t tell the
 Internal Revenue Service  about his offshore accounts for seven
years. He was sentenced to two years’ probation and ordered to
pay $52 million in back taxes, fines and penalties.  In 2008, he sued Zurich-based UBS, the largest Swiss bank,
claiming it traded excessively in his accounts, engaged in
racketeering and committed fraud by not telling him he owed U.S.
taxes. He seeks as much as $1.7 billion in damages. Arguments on
the bank’s motion to dismiss the case are set for today before
U.S. District Judge Andrew Guilford in  Santa Ana , California.  “UBS did not tell Olenicoff to lie on his tax returns
about having an interest in foreign accounts,” the bank said in
an April 2 court filing. “Olenicoff knowingly and willfully
lied on his tax returns. Olenicoff’s felony conviction for
subscribing to a false tax return is no one’s fault but his
own.”  If Guilford lets the lawsuit go to trial on May 8 as
scheduled, the case could offer new insights about Swiss bank
secrecy and the complex finances of Olenicoff, who built his
fortune as the chief executive officer of  Newport Beach ,
California-based Olen Properties Corp.  Jailhouse Testimony  Jurors at a trial may hear videotaped jailhouse testimony
from Olenicoff’s former UBS banker, Bradley Birkenfeld, the only
other defendant remaining of 39 originally sued, court records
show. Birkenfeld is serving 40 months in a federal  prison  in
 Pennsylvania  for helping Olenicoff and others evade taxes. At
his sentencing, a prosecutor said Birkenfeld exposed a “massive
tax scheme” at UBS while hiding his own dealings with
Olenicoff.  UBS “aggressively solicited” Olenicoff and promised his
offshore money “would be absolutely protected in safe, legal,
effective investment structures, which would not result in tax
liability or reporting requirements until the money was
repatriated,” Olenicoff said in an April 2 filing. “Those
assurances were untrue and UBS knew them to be untrue.”  Olenicoff claims UBS and Birkenfeld told him he didn’t have
to report his Swiss income to the IRS, which was reinforced by
the bank’s system of holding mail and not sending year-end tax
information to him or the tax agency. Had UBS done so, Olenicoff
“would have dealt with the situation before the matter rose to
the level of a potential criminal liability,” according to his
filing.  Important Question  Larry Campagna , a Houston tax attorney who isn’t involved
in the case, said Olenicoff’s lawsuit raises an important
question.  “Did UBS set out to make misrepresentations to U.S.
taxpayers to attract their investment funds?” said Campagna, of
Chamberlain, Hrdlicka, White, Williams & Aughtry. “If UBS
misrepresented facts upon which Olenicoff reasonably relied,
then he’s got a case. But there’s a lot packed into the words
‘misrepresentation and reasonable reliance.’”  Olenicoff pleaded guilty after a three-year criminal probe
that included a search of his office and house by IRS agents in
2005. He admitted that from 1998 to 2004, he filed false returns
that hid accounts in  Switzerland , Liechtenstein,  England  and the
Bahamas.  Criminal Charges  Birkenfeld’s evidence helped lead to criminal charges
against UBS in 2009. The bank avoided prosecution by paying
$780 million, admitting it helped thousands of Americans evade
taxes and turning over the names of 250 American clients to U.S.
authorities. UBS later revealed another 4,450 accounts.  After that, a U.S. probe of offshore accounts mushroomed.
Prosecutors charged almost 50 taxpayers and two dozen foreign
bankers or advisers with tax crimes. Seven current or former
bankers at Credit Suisse AG and Switzerland’s oldest private
lender, Wegelin & Co., were indicted. Some 33,000 more Americans
avoided prosecution by declaring offshore accounts to the IRS.  Olenicoff sued UBS, Birkenfeld and others in 2008. The
April 2 filing claimed they “grossly mismanaged and churned
Olenicoff’s assets to their own benefit,” while hiding from him
millions in “secret profits they were making by placing his
money at risk.”  He claimed UBS put his assets in risky investments known as
Double Currency Units, or DOCUs. They combined a money market
investment with a  call option  on one currency against a second
currency.  ‘Vast Bulk’  “Birkenfeld never should have allowed Olenicoff to place
the vast bulk of his assets in DOCUs,” according to the
plaintiff’s April 2 filing.  Olenicoff claimed the bank engaged in racketeering by
violating a 2001 agreement with the IRS to serve as a
“qualified intermediary.” It was supposed to provide the IRS
with tax reporting and withholding on accounts held by U.S.
clients.  Olenicoff built an empire by  buying land  and building
industrial and office parks and apartments in four U.S. states.  The developer, who began banking offshore in 1980, said in
a 2009 interview that he opened an account in the  Cayman Islands 
and eventually moved tens of millions of dollars to the Bahamas,
where he began banking with  Barclays Plc. (BARC)  He said he got a call
out of the blue in 2000 from Birkenfeld at the Geneva office of
London-based Barclays, where he worked before joining UBS.  Olenicoff Befriended  Olenicoff said Birkenfeld set out to befriend him and asked
to visit him in Newport Beach to discuss his Barclays holdings,
which exceeded $90 million. Birkenfeld then left Barclays, was
hired at UBS and became Olenicoff’s private banker.  Olenicoff said Birkenfeld visited him in Miami, invited him
to a regatta and encouraged him to come to  Switzerland . In
Geneva, he said, Birkenfeld and other bankers promised UBS would
provide estate planning and meet IRS reporting requirements.  In its court filings, UBS said Olenicoff lied to the IRS
“for at least three years before he met UBS.” After his guilty
plea, he filed a Report of Foreign Bank and Financial Accounts
for 1998 to 2004, disclosing an interest in 15 foreign accounts
in 1998.  “Even Olenicoff cannot blame UBS for the  tax fraud  he
committed years before he met anyone affiliated with UBS,” the
bank said in its April 2 filing.  UBS said that while it admitted in its February 2009
deferred-prosecution agreement that it helped clients evade
taxes, it “has never acknowledged, and it is not true, that UBS
misled its own clients regarding the need to disclose accounts
and pay taxes.”  ‘Potentially Criminal’  The bank also said Olenicoff knew by November 2004 that his
offshore accounts were “viewed as improper, indeed potentially
criminal,” by the IRS. It cited a December 2004 e-mail he sent
to Birkenfeld about his IRS audit.  UBS also denied in court papers that it mismanaged
Olenicoff’s DOCU investments, and asserted that it fully
disclosed the risks. Olenicoff made more than $9 million, or 2.3
percent, in 128 separate transactions, the bank said.  The case is Olenicoff v. UBS AG, 08-cv-1029, U.S. District
Court, Central District of  California  (Santa Ana).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in  Newark ,  New Jersey , at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 