-- UBS Likely to Win Ouster of Billionaire’s Suit, Judge Says
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   M a u r i c e   P o s s l e y
-- 2012-04-09T21:54:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/ubs-likely-to-win-dismissal-of-billionaire-s-suit-judge-says.html
UBS AG will likely win dismissal of
billionaire  Igor Olenicoff ’s lawsuit blaming the bank for events
that led him to plead guilty to failing to disclose about $200
million in offshore accounts on U.S. tax forms, a judge said.  U.S. District Judge Andrew Guilford in  Santa Ana ,
 California  today issued a “tentative” opinion rejecting
Olenicoff’s lawsuit against Zurich-based UBS, the largest Swiss
bank. Olenicoff claimed UBS committed fraud by not telling him
he owed U.S. taxes. He also said the bank traded excessively in
his accounts and engaged in racketeering. He sought as much as
$1.7 billion in damages.  “Olenicoff cannot prove that UBS committed any wrongful
act without running headlong into his own admission of criminal
guilt,” Guilford wrote. “Olenicoff’s claim that he justifiably
relied on UBS tax advice is entirely inconsistent with his plea
agreement.”  Olenicoff, who built his fortune as the chief executive
officer of  Newport Beach , California-based Olen Properties Corp,
pleaded guilty in 2007 to filing a false tax return. He admitted
he hid offshore accounts from the  Internal Revenue Service  for
seven years. He was sentenced to two years’ probation and
ordered to pay $52 million in back taxes, fines and penalties.  Guilford said at a hearing today that he expected to issue
a final ruling after considering further arguments from
Olenicoff’s attorney, Thomas Newmeyer. After the hearing,
Newmeyer declined to comment.  Bank Secrecy  If Guilford allows the lawsuit go to trial on May 8 as
scheduled, the case may offer new insights about Swiss bank
secrecy and the complex finances of Olenicoff.  Olenicoff claimed UBS funneled his money to risky accounts
that were “churned” to his detriment. Guilford ruled that,
because Olenicoff made a profit of $12 million, he has no
damages.  “To succeed on his claims, Olenicoff must show proof of
non-speculative damages,” according to the 28-page opinion.
“He cannot. As risky as the bank’s investment scheme may have
been, Olenicoff fails to show that it actually caused him any
measurable harm.”  Guilford said he rejected both Olenicoff’s claims that he
got bad tax advice, and that UBS churned his accounts.  “Because neither half succeeds, all of Olenicoff’s claims
against UBS must fail,” he said.  UBS had urged the judge to dismiss the case.  ‘Willfully Lied’  “UBS did not tell Olenicoff to lie on his tax returns
about having an interest in foreign accounts,” the bank said in
an April 2 court filing. “Olenicoff knowingly and willfully
lied on his tax returns. Olenicoff’s felony conviction for
subscribing to a false tax return is no one’s fault but his
own.”  The evidence includes videotaped jailhouse testimony from
Olenicoff’s former UBS banker, Bradley Birkenfeld, the only
other defendant remaining of 39 originally sued.  Birkenfeld’s evidence helped lead to criminal charges
against UBS in 2009. The bank avoided prosecution by paying $780
million, admitting it helped thousands of Americans evade taxes
and turning over the names of 250 American clients to U.S.
authorities. UBS later revealed another 4,450 accounts held by
U.S. clients.  Birkenfeld is serving 40 months in a federal  prison  in
 Pennsylvania  for helping Olenicoff and others evade taxes. At
his sentencing, a prosecutor said Birkenfeld exposed a “massive
tax scheme” at UBS while hiding his own dealings with
Olenicoff.  Offshore Money  Olenicoff said in an April filing that UBS “aggressively
solicited” him and promised his offshore money “would be
absolutely protected in safe, legal, effective investment
structures, which would not result in tax liability or reporting
requirements until the money was repatriated.” Those
assurances, he said, were untrue and “UBS knew them to be
untrue.”  Olenicoff claims UBS and Birkenfeld told him he didn’t have
to report his Swiss income to the IRS, which was reinforced by
the bank’s system of holding mail and not sending year-end tax
information. Had UBS done so, Olenicoff “would have dealt with
the situation before the matter rose to the level of a potential
criminal liability,” according to his filing.  Olenicoff pleaded guilty after a three-year probe that
included a search of his office and house by the IRS in 2005. He
admitted that from 1998 to 2004, he filed false returns that hid
accounts in  Switzerland , Liechtenstein,  England  and the Bahamas.  U.S. Probe  After UBS admitted it helped U.S. clients cheat on their
taxes, a U.S. probe of offshore accounts mushroomed. Prosecutors
charged almost 50 customers and about two dozen foreign bankers
or advisers with tax crimes. Seven current or former bankers at
Credit Suisse AG and Switzerland’s oldest private lender,
Wegelin & Co., were indicted. About 33,000 more Americans
avoided prosecution by declaring offshore accounts to the IRS.  Olenicoff claimed UBS put his assets in risky investments
known as Double Currency Units, or DOCUs. They combined a money
market investment with a  call option  on one currency against a
second currency.  Olenicoff built an empire by  buying land  and building
industrial and office parks and apartments in four U.S. states.
The developer, who began banking offshore in 1980, said in a
2009 interview that he opened an account in the  Cayman Islands 
and eventually moved tens of millions of dollars to the Bahamas,
where he began banking with  Barclays Plc. (BARC)   Unsolicited Call  He said he got a call out of the blue in 2000 from
Birkenfeld at the Geneva office of London-based Barclays, where
he worked before joining UBS.  In its court filings, UBS said Olenicoff lied to the IRS
“for at least three years before he met UBS.” After his guilty
plea, he filed a Report of Foreign Bank and Financial Accounts
for 1998 to 2004, disclosing an interest in 15 foreign accounts
in 1998.  Olenicoff claimed that Olen, his company, has been unable
to get a loan at market rates since his guilty plea and that as
a result, Olen will have to liquidate its real estate holdings.  UBS introduced evidence that Olen got two loans, for $70
million and $250 million. In his ruling, the judge said that UBS
showed that “Olenicoff and his witnesses repeatedly lied about
the loans in their depositions.”  “Although it is not this court’s job to make credibility
determinations on summary judgment, this coordinated blatant lie
does not go unnoticed,” he said.  At the hearing today, Newmeyer said that Olenicoff couldn’t
get a loan at market rate, not that he couldn’t get one at all.  The case is Olenicoff v.  UBS AG (UBSN) , 08-cv-1029, U.S. District
Court, Central District of California (Santa Ana).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in  Newark ,  New Jersey , at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 