-- Ukraine Needs to Unblock Frozen IMF Loans, Poroshenko Says
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a   a n d   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 2012-04-09T15:27:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/ukraine-needs-to-unblock-frozen-imf-loans-poroshenko-says.html
Ukraine needs to unblock loans from
the  International Monetary Fund  to attract more investment and
boost economic growth, Economy Minister Petro Poroshenko said.  Ukraine will have to work to improve its business climate
to achieve “a brave” 3.9 percent economic growth target this
year, Poroshenko said in an interview in  Kiev  on April 5. The
IMF froze its $15.6 billion lending program with Ukraine last
March after the government refused to raise domestic natural-gas
prices to trim the  budget deficit .  “I am deeply convinced that the IMF is the only possible
way to carry out reforms,” said Poroshenko, who took office on
March 23. “Tariffs need to be raised. Let’s talk about
transparent plans of compensation. Especially since the winter
is over, let’s do it in the summer.”  Ukraine’s  gross domestic product  slowed to 2 percent in the
first two months of the year as demand for its exports weakened
on global markets, the central bank said last month. GDP
expanded 5.2 percent in 2011. Ukraine is 152nd among 183
countries on the  World Bank ’s Ease of Doing Business study,
placing it below Liberia, Algeria and  Tajikistan .  “In the situation of falling metal prices, deteriorating
chemicals markets, inflation risks with forthcoming elections,
we must put forward adequate market measures,” Poroshenko said.  Poroshenko, 46, whose fortune was valued at $1 billion,
owns OOO Roshen, a manufacturer of chocolate and cocoa products
and has holdings in agriculture, automobiles, shipbuilding and
media, according to  Forbes .  Ikea Agreement  “Not many people know, like I do, how many obstacles there
are for a transparent business,” Poroshenko said. “The issue
of trust is one of the key issues. We have to seek investors’
trust by improving the investment climate, to seek the trust of
small and medium-sized businesses, trust from partners in  Russia 
and in the European Union, because we have so far been
unpredictable.”  Ikea Group, the world’s largest furniture retailer, opened
an office in Ukraine in 2005 and initially planned to build a
store near Kiev. It failed to buy the land needed for
construction amid disputes with local authorities. Ikea said in
March 2009 it may open its first outlet in the southern region
of Odessa at the end of 2011.  “An agreement was reached that Ikea is coming to
Ukraine,” Poroshenko said. “Ikea is not only a way to have
affordable quality furniture; Ikea is a symbol. When Ikea is not
allowed to enter the market, it is not Ikea that suffers; it is
Ukraine’s image that suffers.”  Beer, Grain  Belarus  is considering the possibility of opening its
market for Ukrainian beer, Poroshenko said. Ukraine’s export of
beer to Belarus slid 77 percent last year from the previous year
as its former Soviet partner introduced trading licenses,
pushing prices up.  Poroshenko said Ukraine’s winter grains were less damaged
by dry autumn and cold winter than previously estimated. He said
the country will need to replant more than 2.4 million hectares,
according to the latest inspection.  -- Editors: Elizabeth Konstantinova, Paul Abelsky  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net  