-- Multifamily Bonds Surging to Record U.S. as CMBS Fade: Mortgages
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2012-04-09T13:57:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/multifamily-bonds-surging-to-record-u-s-as-cmbs-fade-mortgages.html
Bonds backed by  Fannie Mae  and
 Freddie Mac  tied to apartments soared to a record as the
government-supported mortgage companies made low-cost loans on
rental properties amid a continued slide in  home values .  Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae sold $13.5 billion
of securities tied to the buildings in the first quarter of
2012, an 81 percent increase from the year-earlier period and up
from $5.2 billion issued in all of 2008, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It’s the highest quarterly issuance since
records began in 1993.  The mortgage companies, rescued by the government after
taking losses on home loans, are increasingly packaging
apartment debt into securities for sale as regulators instruct
them to aid housing and shrink their balance sheets. Wall Street
banks are benefiting from selling the deals as  Europe ’s
sovereign fiscal crisis has fueled volatility in credit markets
and restrained transactions without the guarantees.  “The sheer volume of financing opportunities has grown
tremendously,” said Mitchell Resnick, a vice president at
Mclean, Virginia-based Freddie Mac. “This avenue permits us to
do that without putting more assets on the balance sheet and
more taxpayer dollars at risk.”  The U.S. government has spent $190 billion to shore up
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac since 2008, when they were taken into
conservatorship as they teetered on the brink of collapse after
investing in risky mortgages.  Rental Demand  Demand for rental properties is increasing as rents rise
amid a 10-year low in vacancies fueled by a  homeownership  rate
that’s at about the lowest level since 1998. The S&P/Case-
Shiller index of  home prices  in 20 metropolitan areas fell 3.8
percent in January from a year earlier and is down more than 34
percent from its peak in 2006.  Landlords are seeking the loans to lower borrowing costs
and fund purchases of apartment buildings. Sales of multifamily
properties totaled $3.8 billion in January, a 53 percent
increase from a year earlier and the strongest start to 2012
among all types of commercial real estate, according to Real
Capital Analytics Inc., a New York-based research company.  Apartment construction  is rebounding from a 50-year low
reached in 2009 even as falling home prices and low interest
rates begin to attract buyers back to the purchase market.  Building permits for U.S. apartments rose 56 percent in the
12 months ended in February from the low in 2009, more than
doubling in five of the six most-active construction markets --
 Dallas , Houston,  Los Angeles ,  Washington  and  Seattle  --according
to Axiometrics Inc. and Census Bureau data. In the sixth,  New
York , permits rose 73 percent.  ‘Too big to Ignore’  Agency debt, which accounted for less than five percent of
total commercial-mortgage bond issuance at the peak in 2007,
grew to more than 50 percent of total supply last year,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  said in a presentation last month, with the heading
“Agency CMBS: too big to ignore!”  The deals rose 57 percent to $33.9 billion in 2011, as the
dollar volume of apartment loan originations by Washington-based
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac reached the highest level in at least
11 years, according to the  Mortgage Bankers Association .  While the agency market is expanding, non-agency CMBS
issuance is stuck at less than one-eighth of the peak. Sales
have dwindled as the  U.S. economy  grows at its slowest post-
recession pace since World War II and Europe’s debt crisis,
fuels price swings that erode profit margins on new
transactions.  Capital Requirements  The extra yield investors demand to hold top-ranked
commercial-mortgage bonds rather than Treasuries rose 14 basis
points last week, the biggest increase since October, to 196
basis points, according to Barclays Capital CMBS AAA Super Duper
Index. The spread, which has decreased from 323 in October, is
at about the same level as a year ago.  Banks arranged $4.7 billion of the transactions in the
first quarter and $26.8 billion last year, Bloomberg data show.
That’s down from $232 billion in 2007 before losses on subprime
home loans spread and debt markets seized up.  Lenders are also wrestling with new  capital requirements 
and regulations, including Basel III, an international banking
agreement that makes it more expensive to stockpile property
loans.  For banks, “between Dodd Frank and Basel III there is a
lot of uncertainty around holding these loans on the balance
sheet,” said Kimberly Johnson, a vice president for multifamily
 capital markets  at Fannie Mae. “Until you know exactly how much
capital you have to hold and in what format, it’s hard to
estimate what your returns look like. For the agencies,
securitization is the answer.”  Banks and investment firms are buying agency CMBS as it
pays wider spreads than some other government-guaranteed
securities with more predictable returns.  Credit Suisse Sells  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  managed an $840 million bond sale
last week, with a 9.6-year portion paying 65 basis points, or
0.65 percentage points, more than the benchmark swap rate,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Fannie and Freddie have had a large multifamily presence
for quite some time but most of that stayed on balance sheet,”
said Chris Callahan, the New York-based head of commercial
mortgage bond trading at Credit Suisse. With “investors looking
for yield on high-quality assets, the emergence of this asset
class helps satiate that demand.”  The Zurich-based bank is the lead underwriter of the
securities with a 25 percent market share in the first quarter.
 Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  was second with a 17 percent share, Bloomberg
data show.  Delinquency Rates  Credit Suisse has climbed from third for arranging the
sales in 2010, according to industry publication Commercial
Mortgage Alert, when it trailed Barclays Plc and Bank of America
Corp. It rose to the top of the rankings last year with 25
percent share, followed by Bank of America at 18 percent and
JPMorgan with 14 percent.  The government-backed entities are able to attract the
strongest multifamily borrowers with low-cost loans, helping
keep delinquency rates on debt held by Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac below one percent, according to the Mortgage Bankers
Association.  In contrast, the proportion of past due multifamily loans
originated by  Wall Street  surged as high as 17.58 percent in
February 2010,  Fitch Ratings  calculates. The rate has since
declined to 12.61 percent, Fitch said in a report last week.  Buoying Prices  While delinquencies are low, abundant low-cost financing
backed by the U.S. government is inflating the values of
apartment buildings and threatening to create a bubble,
according to a March report by New York-based Chandan Economics
LLC.  The  interest rate  for a 10-year, fixed multifamily loan
designated for purchase by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac was 4.1
percent on March 2, figures from New York real estate investment
banking firm Cushman & Wakefield Sonnenblick Goldman show. The
rate is for a mortgage that covers as much as 80 percent of a
property’s value. That same loan was 5.6 percent a year ago, the
company said.  The loans are buoying the price of apartment buildings to
the point that buyers may not be able to refinance once interest
rates rise,  Sam Chandan , a real estate economist, said in the
report.  “Take into account that home ownership is decreasing and
on top of that, the obsolescence of the existing stock,”
Resnick countered. “None of that would point you to the
conclusion that there is a major oversupply.”  Apartment rents climbed 4.1 percent in the 12 months
through December, according to Axiometrics. Multifamily
landlords are projected to see their rental revenue increase by
6.7 percent this year, as little new supply comes to market.  “As long as we have stress in the single-family market,
we’re going to see renting as a viable alternative to more
people,” said Fannie’s Johnson.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  