-- Doughty Hanson’s Tumi Seeking as Much as $319.3 Million in IPO
-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2012-04-09T18:34:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/tumi-seeks-as-much-as-319-3-million-in-share-offering-2-.html
Tumi Holdings Inc. (TUMI) , the premium
travel-bag company, is seeking as much as $319.3 million in a
U.S. initial public offering, allowing private-equity owner
 Doughty Hanson  & Co. to begin recouping its investment.  The company, London-based Doughty Hanson and other
stockholders are offering 18.78 million shares at $15 to $17
each, according to a regulatory filing today. That would imply a
market value of as much as $1.15 billion.  Demand for  luxury goods  is helping Doughty Hanson reduce
its stake in Tumi, which it bought for $276 million eight years
ago, longer than buyout firms typically hold investments. Tumi,
whose backpacks retail for up to $595, is seeking a valuation of
as much as 3.5 times 2011 sales, compared with the median of 0.6
times for a basket of peers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “The continued strength of the luxury sector, along with
new highs in the equities markets, will motivate more high-
performing luxury brands to go public,” Michael Appel, a
director at consulting firm AlixPartners LLP in  New York , said
in an e-mail.  Tumi plans to use its proceeds from the offering to
repurchase outstanding stock from Doughty Hanson, according to
the filing. The European private-equity firm, co-founded in 1985
by Richard Hanson, paid an average of $1.04 a share for Tumi’s
stock, the filing shows. Using that price, an IPO at the
midpoint of $16 a share would represent a 1,400 percent return
for shareholders, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Private-Equity Exits  Tumi is offering 17.56 million shares, while stockholders
including Doughty Hanson, Atlantic Capital Group LLC and HVB
Capital Partners AG are offering 1.22 million, according to the
filing. The number of shares on offer by those investors may
vary depending on the price Tumi can obtain. Co-founder Hanson
will hold about 61 percent of Tumi’s shares following the
offering, the filing shows.  Doughty Hanson’s eight-year hold on Tumi is almost twice
the median holding period for companies that buyout firms took
public or sold last year, according to Seattle-based researcher
PitchBook Data Inc. The median holding period was 4.81 years, or
25 percent higher than before the 2008 financial crisis, as
sagging markets hurt companies’ valuations and turned away
potential investors.  The IPO follows the successful offering of luxury-goods
maker  Michael Kors Holdings Ltd. (KORS)  in December and a share sale by
its biggest rival, Samsonite International SA, last year. Tumi,
known for its high-priced, black-nylon travel goods, sells items
such as $895 expandable carry-ons through about 1,600 locations
worldwide.  Kors’s IPO  “The offering is an opportunity for investors to buy into
an authentic and premium brand,” Jeffry Aronsson, chairman of
Aronsson Group LLC in New York, which helps develop fashion
labels, said in an e-mail. “Tumi is synonymous for utility and
durability in luggage and business cases.”  Monthly sales at U.S. luxury stores open at least a year
rose an average 7.9 percent in the first two months of fiscal
2012, compared with the year-ago period, according to the
 International Council of Shopping Centers . The monthly average
of all retail segments it tracks is up 4.6 percent, the New
York-based trade group said April 5.  Michael Kors  sold $944 million worth of shares at $20
apiece in mid-December. The shares have more than doubled since.
Samsonite, the world’s largest branded-luggage maker, sold its
shares to the public in a Hong Kong IPO in June. Samsonite,
looking to spend at least $1 billion on buying rivals, said in
January that an acquisition of Tumi would be a “natural fit.”  U.S. IPOs  Tumi is one of at least four companies to set terms for
U.S. IPOs today. Software maker Splunk Inc. is seeking as much
as $135 million in its offering, while  Infoblox Inc. (BLOX) , a network
and data-services provider, plans to raise as much as $105
million. Tumi’s IPO is expected to price on April 19, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Tumi, based in South Plainfield,  New Jersey , plans to list
shares on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol TUMI.
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Credit Suisse Group AG and  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  are managing the offering.  The luggage maker’s sales increased 31 percent to $330
million last year, while net income surged to $16.6 million from
$104,000 in the same period, according to today’s filing. The
company turned a profit for the first time in 2010 since at
least 2007, the filing shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  