-- Syria Violence Spills Into Turkey as Assad Shuns Deadline
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-04-10T06:47:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/un-faces-syria-day-of-reckoning-as-annan-plan-may-fail.html
Violence in  Syria  spilled across
borders into Turkey and Lebanon as President Bashar al-Assad’s
regime spurned today’s United Nations deadline for a cease-fire.  A Lebanese cameraman was killed in a car near a border
crossing yesterday and two Syrian civilians who sought refuge in
Turkey were injured by gunfire from Syria, in what may prove
final blows to a peace plan crafted by UN special envoy  Kofi Annan . In Syria, security forces killed 160 people yesterday,
according to the Local Coordination Committees. Syrian Foreign
Minister Walid Al-Muallem is in Moscow today for talks with his
Russian counterpart,  Sergei Lavrov .  Russia , an ally of Syria,
backs the Annan peace initiative.  The latest killings, and a report by  Human Rights Watch 
saying Syrian soldiers rounded up civilians and shot them in
mosques, highlighted the limits of traditional diplomacy in
resolving a yearlong conflict that is deteriorating into civil
war and embroiling Syria’s neighbors.  “The worst-case scenario is happening before our eyes,”
 David Schenker , a senior fellow in Arab politics at the
Washington Institute for Near East Policy, said in an interview.
“There is worse to come, and as the conflict drags on, the
opposition will radicalize.”  Battleground  The conflict in Syria, now in its second year, has left
more than 9,000 people dead by UN estimates and turned the
country into a battleground between Sunni Muslim-led  Saudi
Arabia  and Shiite-majority  Iran . Syria’s borders with Israel,
Lebanon, Iraq and  Turkey  have raised the stakes for governments
across the region.  Two Syrian nationals who took shelter at a refugee camp in
Kilis, Turkey, and two Turkish citizens working there were
wounded by gunshots from Syria, according to a statement
yesterday by Turkey’s Foreign Ministry.  Turkey, whose longest border is with Syria, will consider
“necessary measures” in case of more incursions on its
territory, the Foreign Ministry said. The Milliyet newspaper
reported yesterday that Turkey may establish buffer zones, which
would require a substantial military presence to enforce.  Lebanese Prime Minister  Najib Mikati  confirmed the death of
Ali Shaaban, a Lebanese cameraman for Al Jadeed television, in
an online statement and said he had asked for an immediate
investigation into the circumstances.  ‘Deplore and Condemn’  Shaaban, on assignment in the northern area of Wadi Khaled
near the border with Syria, was in a car when he was shot in the
chest and then died on his way to the hospital, the  Associated
Press  reported, citing unidentified Lebanese security officials.  “We deplore and condemn the shooting from the Syrian side
of the border on the Lebanese crew while performing their duties
inside Lebanon,” Mikati said.  UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said in an e-mailed
statement that he was “alarmed by the reports of continued
violence and human-rights violations in Syria” as flows of
refugees seek to flee.  “Not only has the violence not abated; it has been worse
in recent days,” U.S. State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said yesterday in  Washington .  Syrian forces have carried out more than 100 extra-judicial
executions since December, treated children as human shields,
opened fire on civilians and used mosques as places to round up
and kill people, according to Human Rights Watch, which said it
documented at least a dozen cases based on about 30 eyewitness
accounts.  Corpses Found  In one of the reported cases, Syrian soldiers swept through
the northern village of Ayn Larouz and captured 34 residents,
including a 52-year-old woman and her 9-year-old daughter,
threatening to kill them unless four defectors suspected to be
in hiding there were turned in. The burnt corpses of four
detainees, three of them teenagers, were discovered days later
by residents, according to the 25-page report released yesterday
by the New York-based group.  Assad has so far withstood international and regional
sanctions levied against his country and family.  After agreeing on April 2 to withdraw forces from
flashpoints across the country, his government said on April 8
that it wouldn’t do so without written guarantees from rebels it
labels as “armed terrorist groups.”  That leaves Annan, who has pronounced the escalation of
violence “unacceptable,” in a tough spot. Under his plan, all
hostilities were to end by 6 a.m. Damascus time on April 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  