-- Lupatech Stocks, Bond Surge on Capital Increase Pact: Rio Mover
-- B y   M a r i a   L u i z a   R a b e l l o   a n d   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2012-04-09T16:08:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/lupatech-says-capital-increase-moving-ahead-after-accord-signed.html
Lupatech SA (LUPA3)  shares rose the most in
seven weeks and bonds surged after the Brazilian oil-services
company said a plan to raise as much as 700 million reais ($383
million) of fresh capital from shareholders is moving ahead
after almost two months of delays.  Lupatech stock surged 6.6 percent to 4.86 reais at 12:45
p.m. in  Sao Paulo , and earlier advanced 11 percent for the
biggest intraday gain since Feb. 17. The company’s perpetual
bonds rose 8 cents to 61 cents on the dollar, driving yields
down 243 basis points to 16.22 percent, according to Trace, the
bond price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.  “We’re very confident that the success of the operation
will give us space to recover our operations and our capacity to
generate cash,” Chief Executive Officer Alexandre Monteiro said
in a conference call today.  The capital injection through the sale of 350 million reais
to 700 million reais of new shares to the state development bank
and other investors is helping bolster confidence in the Caxias
do Sul-based company after it reported record losses and
canceled two contracts with  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , the state-
run oil producer known as Petrobras. Lupatech signed an
agreement with investors backing the share sale last week and
plans to call an extraordinary meeting by April 11 to approve
the offering, according to a regulatory filing yesterday.  Lupatech bonds hit an almost four-month low last week after
the company failed to fulfill a promise to carry out the planned
stock sale in March. State development bank BNDES and Petrobras
pension fund Petros, Lupatech’s second- and third-largest
investors, plan to buy a combined 300 million reais of new
shares in the private stock offering.  Bond Prices  “Given Lupatech’s role in the Brazilian oil field service
sector, it’s not surprising to have BNDES participation in their
share sale -- for better or worse,” said  Gianna Bern , president
of Chicago-based risk-management adviser Brookshire Advisory and
Research Inc., in a telephone interview from  Buenos Aires 
yesterday.  Perpetual bonds sold by Lupatech sank 18 cents on April 4
to 53 cents on the dollar, the lowest since Dec. 7, driving up
yields 485 basis points to 18.78 percent, according to Trace.
Yields on similarly rated Latin American corporate bonds fell
six basis points on April 4 to 9.45 percent, according to Credit
Suisse Group AG indexes. Lupatech bonds were little changed
April 5.  A BNDES press official in  Rio de Janeiro  declined to
comment.  San Antonio  Lupatech is buying San Antonio Brasil as part of the share
sale to expand into oil drilling and well services at a time
demand has been weak for its anchor ropes and valves that are
used on offshore production platforms. Lupatech is buying  San
Antonio , which is currently controlled by GP Investimentos, with
50 million reais in equity. Lupatech is assuming 100 million
reais in San Antonio’s debt.  San Antonio, which owns equipment to drill, construct and
repair  oil wells , will more than double Lupatech’s backlog of
orders to over 2 billion reais and allow it to compete with
Halliburton Co., Schlumberger Ltd., Baker Hughes Inc. and
Weatherford International Ltd. for contracts with Petrobras and
other producers, Monteiro said in a conference call today.  The company said in an April 2 filing that it had 241
million reais in losses for 2011, triple that of the previous
year, and that it canceled the offshore-services contracts with
Rio de Janeiro-based Petrobras, its main client, worth $779
million. It rescheduled an April 3 earnings conference call for
April 9.  The filing yesterday said an investment agreement was
signed last week to formalize a December memorandum of
understanding with BNDESPar, the investment arm of  Brazil ’s
development bank, Petros and Hamilton, Bermuda-based private
equity firm GP Investimentos Ltda., to increase its capital by
as much as 700 million reais through a share sale.  Rising Debt  Lupatech’s debt ratios have been climbing since its bet on
a production boom stemming from Petrobras’s oil discoveries
failed to materialize. The oil-services provider is also selling
assets to meet debt payments and cover operating costs after
Petrobras delayed orders. Even if Lupatech succeeds in raising
capital, the company will have to reduce debt and increase cash
flow to improve its credit ratings, Filippe Goossens, an analyst
at Moody’s, said last week.  Lupatech’s bonds had rallied to 85 cents on the dollar on
March 9 from a low of 36.5 cents in November after announcing
the recapitalization plans.  “I suspect they wanted to make sure there was enough
investors’ appetite, that they could go to the market and have a
successful share sale,” Bern said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Luiza Rabello in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mrabello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net  