-- Musk Sees SpaceX IPO in 2013 as SolarCity Awaits Lease Review
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n   a n d   C o r y   J o h n s o n
-- 2012-04-09T18:41:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/musk-sees-spacex-ipo-in-2013-as-solarcity-awaits-lease-review.html
Elon Musk, who leads  Tesla Motors
Inc. (TSLA) , said an initial public offering of SolarCity Corp. may
occur this year after a review of accounting, with an IPO of
Space Exploration Technologies Corp. probable in 2013.  Plans to sell shares in SolarCity, which leases rooftop
solar-power systems, won’t advance until “additional clarity on
the accounting” for those leases is provided by auditors and
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Musk said in an
April 5 interview. Bloomberg reported Feb. 1 that the  San Mateo ,
California-based company was seeking an IPO as early as last
month, citing three people with knowledge of the matter.  “There is this question of how do you account for
something when it’s a lease,” Musk said. “Not all of them are
structured in the same way. We want to just double-check with
our auditors and the SEC before we file to make sure the
accounting is correct.”  Musk, 40, is chairman of SolarCity. He is also chief
executive officer of both Space Exploration Technologies, or
SpaceX, and Tesla, and has been a Silicon Valley entrepreneur
since the 1990s. He founded Zip2 Corp. and sold it Compaq
Computer Corp., now a unit of Hewlett-Packard Co. He also co-
founded PayPal Inc., which  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  acquired. The June 2010
debut of Tesla, a maker of battery-powered automobiles, was the
first IPO of a U.S.-based carmaker since Ford Motor Co.’s
offering in 1956.  Deliveries of Tesla’s first wholly U.S-produced vehicle,
the Model S sedan, which starts at $57,400, begin in July.
Shares of the  Palo Alto , California-based carmaker have almost
doubled in value since the IPO at $17 a share.  SpaceX Missions  SpaceX has contracts valued at $4 billion and stretching
through 2017 for satellite launches and for ferrying cargo to
the International Space Station for the U.S. government, said
Kirstin Brost Grantham, a spokeswoman for company. SpaceX is
“cash-flow positive,” Musk said, without elaborating.  A major test for SpaceX occurs April 30 when its Falcon 9
rocket is to launch from  Cape Canaveral ,  Florida , carrying the
company’s Dragon capsule, which is designed to dock with the
space station.  The decision to take SpaceX public depends on having a
“highly predictable revenue stream,” Musk said at the
company’s headquarters in Hawthorne,  California .  “SpaceX doesn’t absolutely need to go public, so it’s best
to delay going public until we have a steady stream of launches
occurring,” he said. Late 2013 is the most likely timing, he
said.  Musk owns a majority interest in SpaceX, which he founded
in 2002. He also owns 26 percent of Tesla and 25 percent of
SolarCity.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net ;
Cory Johnson in  San Francisco  at 
 cjohnson114@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  