-- Watson’s Maturity Brings Masters’ Green Jacket as Woods Sulks
-- B y   M i k e   B u t e a u
-- 2012-04-09T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/watson-s-maturity-brings-masters-green-jacket-as-woods-sulks.html
Bubba Watson wasn’t interested in
hanging around Augusta National Golf Club for too long after his
first major victory. He had a plane to catch.  Waiting for him at home in  Florida  were his wife, Angie,
and their month-old adopted son, Caleb.  For a player formerly known as much for his blustery
demeanor on the course as his powerful drives and shot-making
abilities, Watsons’ priorities have changed. The makeover
culminated with a winner’s green jacket last night in Augusta,
Georgia.  “I was living the wrong way,” Watson said of his old
self. “Every golf shot was controlling how mad I got, how I was
on the golf course. It’s a slow process. I’ve been working hard.
Hopefully in the years to come it gets better and better.”  Watson’s playoff victory over  South Africa ’s  Louis Oosthuizen  capped a week of tension over the private club’s all-
male membership and anticipation over the possibility of  Tiger Woods ’s 15th major victory. At the end, Watson trumped it all
with a par-saving wedge shot from out of the trees on the second
playoff hole.  “It’s just Bubba golf,” Watson, a 33-year-old left-
hander, said of his play. “I attack. I always attack. I want to
hit the incredible shot; who doesn’t? That’s why we play the
game of golf, to pull off the amazing shot.”  With his ball resting on trampled pine straw, amid the
course’s towering magnolia trees, Watson hooked a pitching wedge
from about 150 yards, sweeping it from left to right. The ball
came to rest about 10 feet from the hole. He two-putted for a
par and the win after Oosthuizen made bogey.  “I hooked it about 40 yards,” Watson said. The ball was
“about 15 feet off the ground until it got under the tree and
then started rising; pretty easy.” Watson then winked.  Georgia Product  In addition to his aggressive playing style, Watson is one
of golf’s most colorful characters and a  University of Georgia 
consumer-economics graduate, making him a clear crowd favorite
on the course, located about 2 1/2 hours east of Atlanta.
Earlier this year, Watson bought the original 1969 Dodge Charger
car used in the 1980s “Dukes of Hazard” CBS television show
for $110,000 at an auction. He  drove the car  to the U.S. PGA
Tour’s Phoenix Open in January.  Watson says he has always been fun-loving. Early in his
career, though, missing a potential tournament-winning six-foot
putt, as he did on the first playoff hole, or launching his tee
shot into the trees, as he did a hole later, would’ve been
enough to send him into a tailspin.  Anger Management  His maturation began about four years ago when his wife and
his caddie, Ted Scott, sat him down and offered some
perspective. His wife told him to stop being so angry on the
course and appreciate that he gets to play golf for a living.
Scott was ready to leave him, Watson said.  “He was going to walk away from me, even though he knew I
was a good player,” Watson said. “He didn’t want to see a good
friend go through that struggle. It hit home.”  As Watson left Augusta National to be with his wife and new
son, Woods left with his worst finish in 16 appearances as a
professional at the Masters. As frustrating as Woods said his
play was, his inability to control his emotions also became the
subject of harsh criticism. He was the opposite of Watson.  During the first two rounds, Woods cursed after poor shots.
He dropped his club at other times in disgust and kicked his 9-
iron about 20 feet after an errant shot on the par-3 16th during
the second round. His actions led CBS golf analyst  Nick Faldo , a
three-time Masters winner, to say “I think we can safely say
Tiger has lost his game, and his mind.”  ‘Trying to Compete’  “It’s just the way it is,” Woods said after his final
round. “I’m trying to compete. Unfortunately, I just didn’t
play well.”  Woods’s agent,  Mark Steinberg , said the 14-time major
winner was spoken to about his actions. He declined to say who
talked with Woods directly, although he said it wasn’t the club
or the  PGA Tour .  “He apologized,” Steinberg said in an interview. “Of
course he is aware of it. He’s got emotions like everybody else.
It was a frustrating week. Some people forget that he won 14
days ago.”  It was Woods’s win at the Arnold Palmer Invitational two
weeks ago that lifted expectations for the Masters. Golf World
magazine put him and  Northern Ireland ’s Rory McIlroy on the
cover of its tournament preview issue, with both players wearing
boxing gloves.  Woods and McIlroy finished tied for 40th at 5-over par, 15
shots behind Watson.  Female Member  The female member issue was left hanging. Bloomberg News
first reported the conflict between Augusta National’s men-only
membership and  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) ’s new Chief
Executive Officer, Virginia Rometty, on March 28, setting off a
nationwide debate on whether she should be admitted.  The previous four CEO’s of IBM have been Augusta National
members.  Billy Payne , Augusta National’s chairman, repeatedly
refused to discuss the club’s membership during a news
conference on April 4, the day before the tournament started.  As Watson prepared to leave Augusta National, he couldn’t
help but talk about how the course suited his long drives and
imaginative playing style. With his first major accounted for,
there could be more green jackets in the future for “Bubba
Golf.”  “Who knows?” he said “That’s the best part about
history, we don’t know what’s going to happen. Hopefully I keep
crying. Hopefully I keep having the passion to play golf and
keep doing what I’m doing.”  First, he said, he’ll have to learn a basic fatherly skill.  “I haven’t changed a diaper yet,” Watson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Buteau in Augusta,  Georgia , at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  