-- Wind Power Seen Surging as Custom Barges Cut Set-up Costs
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-04-10T19:03:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/wind-power-seen-surging-as-custom-barges-cut-set-up-costs.html
Offshore wind-power producers from
Dong Energy A/S to  RWE AG (RWE)  are building custom ships at record
rates to reduce the cost of the technology that’s three times as
pricey as electricity from coal plants.  As many as 20 vessels, some with movable legs that reach
the seafloor, will come onto the market in the next few years,
reducing chartering costs of as much as 200,000 euros ($261,000)
a day, said Marc Seidel, an offshore engineer at  Suzlon Energy
Ltd. (SUEL) , which supplies turbines to  Germany ’s RWE.  A lack of specialized installation ships has forced
companies to hire barges designed for oil exploration, holding
up work at projects such as EON AG’s Robin Rigg wind farm off
 Scotland ’s western coast. The British government estimates that
offshore wind may contribute more than 35 billion pounds ($55
billion) to the economy by 2050 if costs are cut quickly enough.  “Having these vessels is the difference between being able
to build the projects that we’re all looking at today and not,”
Paul Coffey, chief operating officer of RWE’s  Innogy  unit, said
from Swindon,  England . “They allow you to operate in higher
water depths, in more inclement water conditions. They allow you
to get the job done faster and more safely.”  In the early 2000s, developers had to “beg, steal and
borrow” vessels from other industries to get projects
completed, Coffey said. Essen-based RWE won rights with  SSE Plc (SSE) ,
 Norway ’s  Statoil ASA (STL)  and Statkraft AS to develop the Dogger Bank
wind park 100 kilometers (62 miles) off eastern England in the
U.K.’s third licensing round. Dong had a similar struggle.  Adapting Equipment  “We applied equipment across all elements of the supply
chain that were developed for something else,” Dong’s head of
renewables construction, Christina Grumstrup Soerensen, said by
phone. “We put land turbines out at sea, and we used vessels
developed for the exploration and production industry, or
bridge-building equipment.”  The new ships allow developers to install turbines in
deeper waters, lift heavier weights, cope with bigger swells and
carry more machines out to wind-farm sites, speeding up project
completion.  A utility can earn 10,000 euros operating a 6-megawatt
turbine on a “good wind day,” said Thomas Karst, an industry
adviser with Make Consulting LLC in Aarhus,  Denmark . “If you
can have 10 turbines up a month earlier on a project, that’s 3
million euros in your pocket from early generation.”  Expensive Energy  While sea-based wind power is among the most expensive
forms of renewable energy, countries including the U.K. have
promoted large-scale projects to add jobs, harness the stronger
winds offshore and lessen the noise and visual impact of
turbines on nearby communities.  Offshore wind costs about $232 a megawatt-hour of power
generated, according to data from Bloomberg New Energy Finance.
That compares with about $80 for onshore wind, $62 for gas-fired
plants and $77 for coal. The government supports the industry
with incentives for power produced by renewable energy sources.  “If we gave away our turbine for free, we would not even
be close to the price of coal,” said Jesper Moeller, head of
offshore engineering for the wind division of turbine
manufacturer  Siemens AG. (SIE)  The Munich-based company supplied the
majority of machines installed at sea in  Europe  last year.  RWE’s Program  RWE spent 200 million euros on two custom-made craft that
can operate in waters 45 meters (148 feet) deep and are due to
begin work in June and July. The vessels, known as jackup
barges, have platforms supported by legs that can be adjusted to
fit different water depths and heights for the towers that
support  wind turbines .  “We didn’t want to be in a situation where we couldn’t
choose when to build our wind parks,” Coffey said. “We don’t
want to be at the back of a very long queue for a vessel.”  A2Sea , a Siemens-Dong venture which is installing turbines
at the 1-gigawatt London Array, the world’s largest approved
offshore wind park, initially operated two old  container ships 
adapted with cranes and legs, according to Chief Executive
Officer Jens Frederik Hansen. The venture now has two larger
vessels with another due this year, and on March 23 announced a
$155 million deal to have a fourth built by 2014.  ‘Fully Booked’  “The larger vessels will be fully booked at least until
2020,” Hansen said. “The smaller vessels will go into the
service area probably for maintenance.”  MPI Offshore Ltd., owner of the industry’s first purpose-
built vessel, the Resolution, turns away “lots of enquiries”
from developers, said Managing Director  Peter Robinson . The
U.K.’s  Centrica Plc (CNA)  has the option to use the Resolution until
2016, and a further MPI vessel has been chartered by Germany’s
EON for six years when it completes its current task.  Europe will install about 10.4 gigawatts of offshore wind
turbines from this year through 2015, more than 70 percent of
the global total, according to New Energy Finance. From around
2015, U.K. developers will start building the country’s third
round of offshore wind farms, which are typically further from
the shore and in deeper waters than current projects.  “These Round 3 sites are going to kick in by 2015, 2016
and beyond, creating even greater demand on vessel capacity,”
MPI’s Robinson said in an interview.  Rising Demand  Burgeoning demand was reflected in the $850 million
acquisition of shipbuilder Seajacks International Ltd. last
month by Marubeni Corp. and Innovation Network Corp. of  Japan .
The purchase allows Seajacks U.K. to boost its fleet of jackup
barges, the third of which will be delivered in May, it said.  Seajacks vessels worked on Dong’s Walney 2 wind farm in the
 Irish Sea , a project that was installed on budget and ahead of
schedule, said Sebastian Brooke, Seajacks commercial director.  Norway’s  Fred Olsen Energy ASA (FOE)  is having two vessels built
in Dubai for May and September, and  Hochtief AG (HOT)  and DEME Group’s
GeoSea unit are building a jackup capable of operating in waters
50 meters deep.  “All of those vessels are coming on stream now in 2012,
2013 and 2014,” according to Make Consulting’s Karst. “From
2012 and forward, there will actually be excess vessel capacity
days.”  The U.K. has more than 2 gigawatts of wind turbines
installed at sea, representing more than half of the European
total, and targets 18 gigawatts by 2020. Germany plans to build
10 gigawatts, the equivalent of nine atomic plants, as it phases
out nuclear following Japan’s Fukushima disaster in 2011. Such
plans are dependent on a reduction in costs, according to  Repsol
YPF SA (REP) , which has stakes in three wind projects off Britain.  “We really need to see some significant cost reductions in
the sector before we’re going to see the build-out at scale,”
Ronnie Bonnar, managing director of Repsol’s Nuevas Energias
U.K. unit, said in an interview. That includes the costs of
vessels, turbines and foundations, he said.  The A2Sea vessel that’s due for delivery this year will be
able to transport and erect eight 3.6-megawatt turbines in seas
45 meters deep, according to Hansen.  That progress has removed a bottleneck from the industry,
Dong’s Grumstrup Soerensen said. “Now there are more vessels,
it adds so much more robustness,” she said. “Instead of
carrying one or two turbines at a time, they can now fit six to
nine turbines. It makes the whole process more efficient.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  