-- Worker Shortage Dogs Trail King as S.D. Jobs Go Begging
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   O l d h a m
-- 2012-04-09T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/worker-shortage-dogs-trail-king-as-s-d-jobs-go-begging.html
The painter who taught Trail King
Industries President Inc. Bruce Yakley to wield a spray gun, the
welder whose daughter is state golf champion and the metal
worker who’s careful to wear a face shield are all laboring
around the clock.  That’s not enough to keep pace with demand at the truck
trailer maker’s plant in rural  Mitchell , South Dakota, 75 miles
(121 kilometers) west of the state’s largest city,  Sioux Falls .
Employees plan to assemble 1,700 units this year, up from 1,350
last year.  As the rest of the country struggles to create jobs for the
long-term unemployed, South Dakota businesses are looking for
10,000 accountants, information technicians, engineers and
welders to help fill millions in lost orders. The state’s
thriving agriculture industry also needs employees.  “It keeps me up at night,” Yakley said during a tour of
the 230,000-square-foot plant, as rock singer Stevie Nicks
wailed in the background and the smell of burning metal
permeated the air. “It’s once in a lifetime, once in a career,
to really be able to grow a company as fast as I think we could,
and we’re being throttled by the employment situation here
regionally.”  One factor making it harder to attract workers are wages
that rank among the lowest in the country, said Bill Adamson, an
associate professor of economics at  South Dakota State
University (28535MF) .  South Dakota  was second to last among states, behind
Mississippi, for its average weekly wage in the third quarter of
2011, paying $684. That was just over half of the figure for the
highest,  Connecticut , at $1,118 a week, according to the U.S.
 Bureau of Labor Statistics .  Low Wages  Greater competition for workers isn’t enough to lift South
Dakota’s wages because of factors that have kept them down for
decades, including low union membership and a small population
and modest cost of living, said Reynold F. Nesiba, an associate
professor of economics at Augustana College in Sioux Falls.  “There is something to be said for work ethic and
culture,” said Nesiba. “People in South Dakota don’t do much
protesting or organizing. Instead, they get second and third
jobs to pay their bills.”  At  4.3 percent  in February, South Dakota’s unemployment
rate was about half the national average and was the nation’s
third lowest, behind  North Dakota  and  Nebraska , according to the
Bureau of Labor Statistics.  Choosing Options  South Dakota ranked ninth from the bottom in economic health
from the third to fourth quarter of 2011 -- one of only 13
states to show a decline during that period, according to the
Bloomberg Economic Evaluation of States. Yet, the state posted
the second-best gain in employment among all states during that
time, the index found.  The  labor shortage  is forcing some companies to choose
between options that bode ill for South Dakota’s economy:
automating assembly lines, eliminating jobs for good, or moving
to a state where more workers are available.  South Dakota firms join manufacturing, computer and
telecommunications companies from  Washington  to  Mississippi 
searching for highly-skilled employees.  The biggest recession since the 1930s spawned a mismatch
between workers’ skills and companies’ needs when industries
such as construction sharply curtailed operations while others,
like manufacturing, started to improve, said  Michael Brown , an
economist at Wells Fargo Securities.  ‘Skills Disconnect’  “The skills among the  labor force  today are not up to the
degree or the level of competency that firms are demanding,”
Brown said. “There is literally a skills disconnect between
skills in demand and skills in the labor force, between supply
and demand.”  In South Dakota, the Department of Labor and Regulation is
juggling 10,000 jobs with fewer than 100 people to fill them,
said Governor Dennis Daugaard, 58, in his  state-of-the-state 
address in January.  Daugaard is employing unusual tactics to find workers,
including approving a $5 million contract with Milwaukee-based
recruiter  ManpowerGroup. (MAN)  The company started a nationwide job
hunt for 1,000 employees this month.  In an interview in Pierre, the state capital, the governor
said the labor shortage is slowing recovery from the recession
by preventing companies from expanding and increasing sales --
moves that would boost  tax revenue .  “There’s no question about it,” said the first-term
Republican. “We just don’t have enough young people and enough
population to keep pace with economic growth.”  Move Home  Just 182,984 people moved to South Dakota between 1993 and
2010 -- about the population of Knoxville,  Tennessee , according
to the  Tax Foundation . South Dakota is home to 11 people per
square mile, compared to 87 for the U.S., Census Bureau
 statistics  show.  Daugaard is betting a plan to entice South Dakota natives
to move home, and initiatives to train high school and college
students for careers in fields with jobs, will change the
outward migration of skilled workers and attract new ones.  For many South Dakota firms, the labor shortage comes at a
critical time as they attempt to ramp up to manufacture goods to
fuel North Dakota’s oil boom and the Midwest’s growing
agriculture industry.  “The cattle market is at an all-time high,” said Scott
Rysdon, chief executive of Sioux Falls-based  Sioux Steel Co. 
“The demand for equipment like gates and chutes and corrals is
at a premium all over the nation and we’re losing orders.”  Rysdon’s 90-year-old company, which manufactures metal
enclosures for ranchers, is out of options after an intensive
six-month search for 20 welders turned up few candidates.  ‘Carnivals With Balloons’  “We’ve been through every program under the sun, from
reference dollars where you refer a friend and we’ll give you so
much after 90 days, to advertising trade shows, fairs and
carnivals with balloons,” Rysdon said. “You name it, we’ve
done it.”  While South Dakota keeps no statistics on lost revenue from
manpower shortages, business owners say the cost is substantial.
Rysdon said he lost $2 million in orders last year because his
staff couldn’t make products fast enough.  Yakley’s Trail King is also considering growing elsewhere.
The company needs 200 more welders to cut a seven-month backlog
-- the longest in its 38-year history -- prompting some
customers to take their business elsewhere. As the average age
of trailers reaches nine years -- an all-time high -- Yakley
said he’s struggling to keep welders on the payroll.  Not Moving  Relocating isn’t feasible for farmers and ranchers. Hilltop
Dairy owner Olga Reuvekamp wants to add 1,500 cows to her farm
70 miles north of Sioux Falls. She’ll need to increase her 30-
person workforce to care for the current herd of 2,000.  Her milkers, herdsmen and animal scientists hail from
around the world, forcing Reuvekamp to spend hours processing
work visas and forms required by the federal government.  “We’ve tried the long-term unemployable and this is way
beyond what they’ll ever be able to do,” she said. “Migrant
workers aren’t afraid to get dirty and they have a sense it’s
not a 9-to-5 job.”  Reuvekamp is about to get more competition for employees. A
$100 million Bel Brands cheese factory, owned by a unit of
Paris-based  Fromageries Bel SA (FBEL) , expected to employ 400 workers
is scheduled to open in Brookings, down the road from her dairy,
in 2014.  “Several cheese plants in that area aren’t currently able
to operate at their full capacity because there are not enough
cows to supply them,” said Blair Dunn, director of policy at
the South Dakota Department of Agriculture. “We can take the
cows and the people as soon as they’ll come.”  Changing Impression  Local officials say that to attract new workers they must
undo an impression of the state as an inhospitable place that
young people flee as soon as they’re able. In the past, teens
left because there weren’t enough jobs, said  Mitchell Area
Chamber of Commerce  Executive Director Bryan Hisel.  Hisel, a rural planner for 30 years, says his third time
emerging from a recession provides a rare moment for South
Dakota industries to grow and keep residents at home.  “We either fix this problem for our industries and
companies, or we’re not going to have a next chance,” he said.
“Once the impression is out that there aren’t enough workers in
an area, we hit a wall with CEOs and that impression may last
through the next expansion.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Oldham in Denver at 
 joldham1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  