-- Yen Gains After Bernanke Spurs Growth Concern; Rand Drops
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-04-10T21:15:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-09/yen-is-near-month-high-against-euro-on-stock-decline.html
(Corrects 14th paragraph to show  Swiss franc  didn’t breach
cap on April 9.)  The yen rose for a fifth day versus
the dollar and the euro after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  said the U.S. recovery is far from complete, spurring
demand for haven amid bets the central bank will add stimulus.  The Japanese currency advanced against all of its 16 most-
traded peers after the  Bank of Japan (8301)  refrained from easing
monetary policy. Higher-yielding currencies dropped, led by
South Africa’s rand, on concern the global economic recovery is
faltering. The euro fell to the lowest level in more than six
weeks against the yen before Italy auctions bonds this week amid
concern the region’s debt crisis is spreading.  “We’re seeing general risk-off sentiment,” said Carl Forcheski, a director on the corporate currency sales desk at
Societe Generale SA in  New York . “U.S. Treasury bond yields are
back down again, which narrows the interest-rate differential.
That was one of the things driving the yen lower, and now it’s
contributing to the yen’s recovery.”  Japan’s currency appreciated 0.9 percent to 80.76 per
dollar at 1:36 p.m. New York time. It touched 80.71 yen, the
strongest level since March 7. The yen gained 1 percent to
105.77 per euro and reached 105.55 yen, the strongest since Feb.
22. The 17-nation currency was little changed at $1.3096.  The yen last gained for five days against the dollar in the
period ended Feb. 1. Its last five-day winning streak versus the
euro ended on March 6.  Rand Tumbles  South Africa’s rand slid 1.7 percent to 8.0086 per dollar.
The  Mexican peso  lost 1.6 percent to 13.1868. The U.S. is
 Mexico ’s largest trading partner.  The  U.S. economy  “is still far from having fully
recovered” from the financial crisis more than three years ago,
Bernanke said yesterday at a conference in Stone Mountain,
Georgia. A report last week showed U.S. employers added the
fewest jobs in March in five months.  The data spurred bets the Fed will introduce a third round
of quantitative easing after buying $2.3 trillion of debt in two
efforts from December 2008 to June to support the economy.  “It puts quantitative easing back on the table,” said
 David Mann , New York-based regional head of research for the
Americas at Standard Chartered Plc. “Probably the single best
way to play it, rather than go through the euro, is through the
yen.”  U.S. Treasuries rose as investors sought safety, pushing
the  yield  on the benchmark 10-year note below 2 percent for the
first time since March 12. The yield touched 2.4 percent on
March 20, the highest level since October.  ‘Hurting Risky Assets’  “This has been hurting risky assets, and the beneficiary
of all this is U.S. Treasuries,” Gary Pollack, head of fixed-
income trading at Deutsche Bank AG’s private wealth management
unit in New York, which manages $12 billion in bonds. “The 2.40
was a number of things: resolution on  Greece , more optimism on
the economy as well as the reduced probability of a QE3. All of
those three things have turned.”  The difference, or  spread , between 10-year Japanese
government bond yields and those of comparable Treasuries fell
to 1.02 percentage points today, from as high as 1.3 percentage
points last month.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  tumbled 1.5 percent,
falling for a fifth day in its longest slump since November.
German two- and five-year note yields dropped to records.  Swiss Franc  Switzerland’s franc was little changed, trading close to
the  Swiss National Bank ’s cap of 1.20 per euro amid renewed
concern  Europe  hasn’t stemmed its debt crisis. The franc traded
at 1.20165 per euro.  The Swiss National Bank’s interim chairman, Thomas Jordan,
reaffirmed it will enforce the ceiling.  Swiss six-month bills offered a rate below zero at a sale
today, negative 0.251 percent, as investor risk appetite faded.
That compared with a rate of negative 0.099 percent at a sale on
Feb. 21.  The Bank of  Japan  kept its key rate between zero and 0.1
percent and left unchanged its 30 trillion-yen ($370 billion)
asset-purchase fund. No board member proposed additional easing
at the two-day meeting concluded today, the central bank said.  The yen has weakened 3.9 percent against the dollar since
the BOJ set a 1 percent inflation goal on Feb. 14 and increased
its planned purchases of  government bonds .  Europe’s shared currency depreciated 0.3 percent over the
past week against nine developed-nation counterparts monitored
by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The dollar
advanced 0.8 percent and the yen climbed 3.8 percent.  Euro May Fall  If the euro breaks below $1.2950 support level, it may fall
to $1.2590, Societe Generale SA analysts Hugues Naka and Fabien Manac’h wrote in a research note today citing trading patterns.
Support refers to an area on a price chart where buy orders may
be clustered.  The euro will drop more than 5 percent to $1.24 at the end
of 2012, according to  Nick Bennenbroek , head of currency
strategy at  Wells Fargo & Co ., who topped a Bloomberg-compiled
list of the most-accurate foreign-exchange forecasters for the
fourth time out of the past six quarters.  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) ,
which had the second-lowest margin of error, predicts $1.26.  Italy will sell 11 billion euros ($14.4 billion) of bills
tomorrow, followed by an offering of debt due from 2015 to 2023.  Spain ’s 10-year  yields  jumped more than 40 basis points
last week, the biggest surge since the five days ended Jan. 6,
as Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said the nation is in “extreme
difficulty.”  Spanish banks may need additional capital if the economy
weakens more than expected, Bank of Spain Governor Miguel Angel
Fernandez Ordonez said today at a conference in Madrid as he
warned the recovery will be slow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Cox  at 
 Pcox16@bloomberg.net  