-- L.A. Voters Reject Sales Tax, Send Two Into Mayor Runoff
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h   a n d   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2013-03-06T18:44:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/l-a-voters-cool-to-tax-put-garcetti-greuel-into-runoff.html
Los Angeles voters’ rejection of a
half-cent increase in the local  sales tax  suggests that
Californians may be weary after levies on sales and income went
up this year, Moody’s Investors Service said.  With all precincts reporting, the proposal to raise the
city’s total sales tax to 9.5 percent from 9 percent lost, 55
percent to 45 percent, according to unofficial results from
yesterday’s election on the City Clerk’s  website .  Last November, voters in Los Angeles and across  California 
approved Proposition 30, which raised the statewide sales tax by
1/4 cent and imposed higher levies on people earning $250,000 or
more a year. Voters in about two dozen cities and counties,
including San Mateo County immediately south of  San Francisco ,
backed higher local taxes.  “ Los Angeles  voters have for years been willing to vote
for higher local taxes and their rejection may indicate that
voters in the state are unwilling to raise local taxes further,
given the recent statewide increases in sales and income taxes
under Proposition 30,” Naomi Richman, a Moody’s managing
director, said in an e-mailed statement. “This is credit
negative for California local governments as they will likely
need to manage their finances and address spending pressures
within their current tax structures.”  Raised Ratings  Moody’s raised its rating for the city of 3.8 million to
Aa2 in January, the third-highest level, citing growth in
property taxes. Standard & Poor’s rates Los Angeles AA-, its
fourth-highest grade.  After yesterday’s municipal election, Controller Wendy Greuel and Councilman Eric Garcetti will face each other in a
May 21 runoff to replace Mayor  Antonio Villaraigosa , a 60-year-
old who can’t run due to term limits. Neither candidate won
enough votes to claim victory outright.  Nor do the candidates have answers for the city’s budget
strains, according to  Austin Beutner , a co-founder of  New York 
investment bank  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  and former Los Angeles
deputy mayor.  “They haven’t identified where new revenue would come
from, they’ve sworn off new taxes and they’re not making any
specific proposals regarding employee compensation and
benefits,” he said in an interview before yesterday’s vote.  Police Jobs  Villaraigosa, a Democrat, endorsed the sales-tax increase
and said that its defeat might force the 10,000-officer  Los
Angeles Police Department  to cut as many as 500 jobs. The higher
tax would have yielded as much as $215 million a year, according
to an  estimate  from City Administrative Officer  Miguel Santana ,
roughly equal to the deficits he projected for the next three
years.  The Los Angeles Area Chamber of Commerce and several unions
representing city workers, including  Service Employees
International Union , backed the higher  tax rate . Opponents
included neighborhood groups and former Mayor Richard Riordan.  Los Angeles has faced $1.6 billion in deficits over the
past four years. Villaraigosa said the city has eliminated 80
percent of its recurring deficits without shrinking the police
or fire departments. Without new revenue, he warned Feb. 11,
that may no longer be possible.  Greuel, 51, and Garcetti, 42, opposed the higher sales tax
rate, saying the budget gap could be closed without it. The
candidates, both Democrats, also urged elimination of a business
levy that generates about $450 million a year.  Greuel was an executive at  Dreamworks Animation SKG Inc. (DWA) 
before winning a seat on the council representing part of the
San Fernando Valley in 2002. She was elected controller, the
official who audits city departments and prepares financial
reports, in 2009. She would be the city’s first female mayor.  Garcetti, the son of former Los Angeles County District
Attorney Gil Garcetti, was elected to a Hollywood-area council
seat in 2001 and served as the body’s president for six years.  Villaraigosa, modern Los Angeles’s first Latino mayor,
didn’t endorse any candidates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Nash in Los Angeles at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net 
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  