-- L’Oreal to Bayer See Profits From Euro Below $1.32: Currencies
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2013-03-06T13:33:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/l-oreal-to-bayer-see-profits-from-euro-below-1-32-currencies.html
L’Oreal SA (OR)  Chief Financial Officer
Christian Mulliez told analysts last month there’s one
guaranteed earnings driver for the world’s largest cosmetics
maker this year: the euro.  “There may be some negative factors, factors that we can’t
quantify today,” he said on a Feb. 12 conference call. “But we
know that we have at least one positive upside, which is that of
the currency hedges,” he said, referring to contracts that lock
in costs and sales at a predetermined exchange rate.  Europe ’s biggest companies are betting a second year of
recession in the region will drive down the common currency,
helping them better compete as countries from  Japan  to the U.S.
battle for exports. L’Oreal is hedging at $1.26 per euro this
year, down from $1.36 in 2012.  Bayer AG (BAYN) ,  BASF SE (BAS) , Heineken NV,
 Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , MTU Aero Engines,  Infineon Technologies AG (IFX) 
and Beiersdorf AG predict exchange rates ranging from $1.25 to
$1.31, compared with the $1.3193 the euro closed at on Dec. 31.  “Given the region’s growth outlook, Europe, more than
most, needs a weaker currency,” said Adrian Owens, a  money
manager  who helps oversee $48 billion at GAM UK Ltd. in  London .
“We are now seeing a much clearer recovery in the U.S. We are
running a short position on the euro against the dollar.” A
short position is a bet that an asset will fall in value.  Accelerated Hedging  European Aeronautic Defence & Space Co., the parent company
of Airbus SAS, bought $30 billion in new hedges throughout last
year, locking in an average rate of $1.30 to the euro to protect
the future revenues for its commercial aircraft, helicopters and
satellites.  “We’ve taken advantage of a more favorable  U.S. dollar 
environment, accelerating our hedging speed in 2012,” EADS
Chief Financial Officer Harald Wilhelm told analysts last week.  Almost all of the 588 Airbus planes the company delivered
last year were paid for in dollars, with more than 50 percent of
costs incurred in euros. Every 10-cent drop in the value of the
dollar against the euro costs the company about 1 billion euros
($1.3 billion) in pretax profit, EADS calculates.  Instead of falling amid the region’s debt crisis and
slowing economy, the euro has climbed from a two-year low of
$1.2043 on July 24 to $1.3024 as of 8:28 a.m. in  New York  after
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi ’s pledged to do
“whatever it takes” to preserve the 17-nation currency bloc.
The ECB has also avoided debasing the euro through bond
purchases, unlike in the U.S., Japan and U.K.  Euro Range  Since it began trading in 1999, the euro has fallen as low
as 82.30 cents in October 2000 and risen as high as $1.6038 in
July 2008. It ranged from $1.204 to $1.349 in 2012.  The median estimate strategists and economists surveyed by
Bloomberg is for the euro to trade at $1.30 by year-end and
$1.27 in 2014.  Output in the euro-area will shrink for two-consecutive
years for the first time since the common currency was
introduced, the European Commission predicted on Feb. 22,
scrapping an earlier growth forecast. The median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey is for the economy to contract 0.1 percent in
2013, compared with 1.8 percent growth in the U.S. and 1 percent
expansion in Japan.  European officials have signaled they would prefer a lower
exchange rate. The euro reached a 15-month high of $1.3711 on
Feb. 1, or two weeks after Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude
Juncker  said Jan. 15 the currency was “dangerously high.”  ‘Conflicting Forces’  “There are a couple of conflicting forces at work in the
euro region,” GAM’s Owens said. While the deteriorating outlook
for the European economy may weaken the euro, the region’s
surplus of trade in goods and services may support confidence in
the currency, he said.  Deutsche Telekom AG,  Germany ’s largest phone company, which
is merging its T-Mobile USA division with MetroPCS
Communications Inc., said Feb. 28 that its fourth-quarter
results were boosted by 145 million euros in revenue gains from
a stronger U.S. dollar. The Bonn-based company predicts a euro
value of $1.27 for this year.  Other companies that benefited from the euro weakening
against other currencies last year include brewer Heineken,
staffing provider Randstad Holding NV and chipmaker Infineon,
which based its 2013 plans on a euro-exchange rate of $1.25.  Fiat’s Doubts  Heineken said last month that it hedged 81 percent of its
predicted U.S. dollar inflow for this year at a euro rate of
$1.31. STMicroelectronics NV,  Intel Corp .’s largest competitor
in Europe, in January also predicted the euro to trade at $1.31
in the first quarter of this year.  Fiat SpA Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  said
yesterday at the  Geneva Motor Show  that the euro “doesn’t
deserve” its current valuation and won’t stay at that level in
the long term. The Italian carmaker that controls Chrysler Group
LLC generated last year about 58 percent of sales in Canada,
Mexico, and the U.S.  Bayer Chief Financial Officer Werner Baumann said in an
interview last month that a 1 percentage point change on the
company’s entire basket of currency exposure would boost or
reduce sales by 270 million euros and earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization by 70 million euros.  Aftershocks from the indecisive Italian elections, which
ended in a four-way split, are also spurring bearishness as the
country’s political instability threatens to reignite concern
that Europe’s debt crisis will deepen.  Expanded Hedging  Voters handed more than 25 percent of the vote to the party
of comedian-turned-politician Beppe Grillo, with its anti-
austerity message and a call for a referendum on euro
membership.  The skepticism is reflected in expanded hedging positions
at companies across the continent.  EADS boosted its hedge book to $84 billion in 2012 from $75
billion a year earlier. L’Oreal has around 80 percent of its
2013 transaction needs hedged, Mulliez said. Bayer’s policy is
to hedge 100 percent of booked currency exchange exposure and
typically about half of its future exposure, Finance Chief
Baumann said.  Western European companies’ growing fondness for the dollar
also shows in how they sell debt. The value of bonds sold in the
U.S. currency by companies from the region more than doubled in
the last quarter of 2012 to $33.4 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The amount sold in the region’s own
currencies meanwhile rose by just 58 percent to $87.6 billion.  Siemens AG (SIE) , Europe’s largest engineering company, last week
sold $500 million of five-year bonds alongside a further 2.25
billion euros of notes.  “That’s a way of hedging,” Roland Chalons-Browne, head of
the Munich-based company’s financial services unit, which
doesn’t handle debt sales, said in an interview.  Without currency effects, L’Oreal’s 2012 operating profit
growth of 12.3 percent would have been reduced to 8.2 percent or
8.3 percent, the company said last month. CEO Jean-Paul Agon
told analysts that he bets on a similar boost this year:  “We have good hedges for this year,” he said, “which is
good news to start the year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Webb in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  