-- Academic Use of CFTC’s Private Derivatives Data Investigated
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2013-03-07T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/academic-use-of-cftc-s-private-derivatives-data-investigated-1-.html
The top U.S. derivatives regulator
has suspended a program of visiting academic researchers over
concerns about the handling of confidential trading data.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission said in a
statement yesterday that it began an internal management review
and asked the agency’s inspector general to investigate its
oversight of data used to research issues including high-
frequency trading.  The commission’s concerns were initially triggered by an
outside person who raised questions about academic research that
referenced CFTC data, according to the statement.  “The management review, which is ongoing, has
preliminarily discovered issues regarding the manner in which
academic consultants and contractors were brought into the
agency, their status with respect to the agency, their access to
CFTC systems and information, and the adequacy of related
documentation,” the CFTC said. “To date, we have not confirmed
any specific incidents of improper or unauthorized data
disclosure.”  The agency in December began looking at the role of non-
public data in the research program, which is aimed at studying
markets the CFTC regulates. The program was suspended and the
agency is barring anyone other than full-time employees from
access to the data, according to the statement.  Academic Paper  The program was overseen by the CFTC’s Office of Chief
Economist. Until the end of last year the office was led by
 Andrei Kirilenko , who left for a post at the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology. Kirilenko didn’t respond to a request
for comment.  CFTC chairman  Gary Gensler  also asked the agency’s internal
watchdog to conduct a review.  The agency didn’t identify the research that sparked its
concerns.  A search of academic literature shows that a  research paper 
by Adam Clark-Joseph, a doctoral candidate at  Harvard
University , relied on “novel electronic message data” at the
CFTC to examine high-frequency trading strategies. Clark-Joseph
declined to comment today and referred questions to the CFTC.  Agency spokesman  Steve Adamske  declined to comment on
Clark-Joseph’s paper. “He was invited to aid the agency in
market research and economic analysis,” Adamske said in a
telephone interview.  The agency oversees data on derivatives trades by firms
including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  that
take place on exchanges including the one operated by  CME Group (CME) 
Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  