-- Acid, Mafia and Scandal at Russia’s Bolshoi Ballet
-- B y   L e o n i d   B e r s h i d s k y
-- 2013-03-06T15:54:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/acid-mafia-and-scandal-at-russia-s-bolshoi-ballet.html
Moscow police may be getting to the
bottom of a mystery that has rocked the Russian cultural scene:
Who and what were behind a sulphuric-acid attack on the artistic
director of the Bolshoi Ballet?  In January, an unknown assailant splashed the acid on the
face of the director, Sergei Filin, as he was about to enter his
Moscow apartment building. The attack seriously damaged the 42-
year-old dancer’s eyesight. He has undergone repeated surgeries
in Moscow and  Germany .  Police this week detained three men in connection with the
investigation: the previously obscure Andrei Lipatov and Yuri
Zarutsky, and top Bolshoi dancer Pavel Dmitrichenko, whose roles
include the lead in a production of “Ivan the Terrible.” On
March 6, the website LifeNews  published  a video of Dmitrichenko
admitting to organizing the attack, but saying that he had not
intended to do such permanent harm. LifeNews reported that
Zarutsky had chosen to use the acid, which he prepared from
ingredients purchased at an auto parts store.  The high-profile investigation highlights the sorry state
of the Bolshoi, one of Russia’s national symbols and a hotbed of
intrigue opaque to all but the parties involved. The theater
reopened in October 2011 after a five-year, $1.15 billion
renovation that had been a personal pet project of former
president and current Prime Minister Dmitri Medvedev. Despite
the official patronage, the Bolshoi is still unable to control
even its own ticket sales. A well-organized “mafia” sells about
50 percent of the tickets to every performance, working quite
openly outside the theater and on the web.      Late last year, the
Bolshoi sued the nominal owner of the scalpers’ website,
bolshoi.me, for illegally using the trademark, a desperate move
meant to show the public and the government that Bolshoi
director Anatoly Iksanov could do little to combat the ticket
mafia.  LifeNews offered a prosaic motive for the attack:
Dmitrichenko was unhappy with the roles being given to his wife,
ballerina Angelina Vorontsova. Other observers have tied the
attack on Filin to a smoldering conflict between Iksanov and
premier danseur Nikolai Tsiskaridze, an ally of Dmitrichenko.
Iksanov appointed Filin to run the ballet company after someone
published pornographic photos on the Internet featuring Filin’s
predecessor, who was forced to resign. Iksanov has publicly
blamed the scandal on Tsiskaridze, whom he accused of plotting
to take the artistic director’s job.  Now, according to Iksanov, the principal dancer is angling
to take his job. “No one at the theater has any doubt that it
was Tsiskaridze’s stand that led to this situation,” Iksanov
 told  Snob magazine. “I am not accusing him of this particular
crime but I am accusing Nikolai of creating a fraught atmosphere
at the theater.”  Tsiskaridze, also  interviewed  at length by Snob,
indignantly denied the charges and badmouthed Iksanov for
everything from botching the renovation - flimsy boards on the
main stage, he claimed, were dangerous to dancers - to poor
personnel decisions.  Ballet fans strongly suspect that the power struggle
involves forces acting behind the scenes, within Moscow’s ruling
bureaucracy, backing both Iksanov and Tsiskaridze. Some of
President Vladimir Putin’s friends have been named as interested
parties, but the rumors are unverifiable. In any case, control
of the Bolshoi, with its annual budget of $120 million and its
special place in  Russia ’s pantheon, is a prize worth fighting
for.  The theater’s organizational dynamics are a subject more
fitting for a herpetologist than an art critic. Alexei
Ratmansky, the ballet master responsible for reviving the musty,
backward-looking Bolshoi in the 2000s with a number of modern
productions, was forced to leave in 2008 because of the
incessant intrigues. “The Filin disaster is no accident,”
Ratmansky commented on  Facebook  after learning of the attack on
Filin. He noted what he called the Bolshoi’s many “diseases,”
including “the disgusting claque that befriends dancers, the
ticket scalpers, the half-crazy fans willing to dig their teeth
into the throats of their idols’ rivals.” Ratmansky now lives
and works in New York.  One cannot envy the investigators’ task of making sense of
the enmities, grudges and scandals in the nation’s grandest
theater. The Bolshoi, with its 3,500 employees, has always been
a difficult place to work and a harder one to run. Many
observers see the theater -- located across the street from the
Kremlin -- as a metaphor for Russia under Putin, or at least for
the clique that runs the nation. “The Bolshoi’s tragedy is in
its geographic location: a theater facing the Kremlin willy-
nilly has to be the mirror of the nation’s government,” critic
Dmitri Renansky  wrote  on the website colta.ru soon after the
attack on Filin.  As the drama unfolds, the reputation of one of Russia’s few
exportable miracles is being destroyed. The nation’s leaders
have chosen not to interfere. Iksanov’s contract runs out next
year, and there is no indication that he will be forced to leave
earlier. Tsiskaridze also remains at the Bolshoi, dancing his
share of leading parts. “The Bolshoi is still the imperial
theater,” wrote Snob editor Nikolai Uskov, who interviewed the
warring parties for the magazine. “Only the emperor himself is
absent. Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin has not visited the theater
since its reopening.”  What better symbol for a country that is being torn apart
by corrupt officials while its leader remains above the fray,
only occasionally plucking out some unlucky victim for
punishment?  (Leonid Bershidsky, an editor and novelist, is Moscow
correspondent for World View. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:  bershidsky@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article: Mark
Whitehouse at  mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 