-- Actis Pursues Private-Equity Deals in Southeast Asia on Growth
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2013-03-06T00:30:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/actis-pursues-private-equity-deals-in-southeast-asia-on-growth.html
Actis Capital Partners Ltd., a U.K.
private equity company with $5 billion in assets, is pursuing
three to four deals in  Southeast Asia  and expects the region to
attract more capital as the economic outlook improves.  Actis is focusing on industries including consumer, health
care, education, industrial and financial service, said Director
Danny Koh in an interview in  Singapore  yesterday. About $5
billion of capital will flow into the region over the next three
years, with the highest growth rates in  Indonesia , he said.  Private-equity investments in Southeast  Asia  are expected
to increase in 2013 after plunging 47 percent in value last year
from 2011, as the region’s growth lure investors looking for
“greenfield opportunities,” Bain & Co. said in a  report  this
month. Buyout deals, which typically are financed by using debt
to acquire companies, totaled $1.65 billion over the past year
in the region, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Given the economic growth and changing demographics, the
outlook for Southeast Asia is good, prompting investors to
allocate more money to private equity,” said Koh, who joined
Actis as head of origination in September after working for
seven years in Singapore for another private-equity firm,  3i
Group Plc. (III)   The minimum deal size for the London-based company is $50
million in Southeast Asia, with transactions ranging between $50
million and $200 million in the region, Koh said. He declined to
elaborate on fundraising or the status of current investments.  Finding Exits  Recovery in the region’s stock markets is helping investors
sell their assets, Koh said.  “As for exits, we are beginning to see higher prices,” he
said. “Companies which have been underperforming due to
economic reasons are beginning to see growth and margin
improvements, which justify such pricing expectations.”  Still, striking private-equity deals remains a challenge in
some of the Southeast Asian countries including  Vietnam ,
 Thailand  and the  Philippines  because they are still fragmented,
Koh said. A lot of deals are below the radar screen of the
investment banks, he said.  “The approach to deal making in each of these countries
may be different, which increases the complexity of deal
making,” Koh said. “Most of the deals are not intermediated,
they are created. A good network becomes all the more important
for deal making.”  Private-equity inflows into the region will increase, with
an industry wide internal rate of return between 15 percent and
25 percent over the next five years, Nicholas Bloy, managing
partner at Navis Capital Partners Ltd., said in January.  Actis was established in 2004 to focus on  emerging markets 
after spinning off from CDC, the U.K. government’s development
arm, according to its  website . Since then, the company has
realized $2.2 billion from $867 million cash investments, it
says. It has 10 offices in cities such as Johannesburg, Lagos,
Mumbai and Beijing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Singapore at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  