-- Adobe Systems Unveils Web-Marketing Software Upgrades
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2013-03-06T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/adobe-systems-unveils-web-marketing-software-upgrades.html
Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE) , the largest
developer of graphic-design software, unveiled upgrades to its
Web-marketing applications, seeking to expand beyond its core
desktop-publishing products.  A revised version of Adobe’s  Marketing Cloud  software, to
go on sale in the coming months, will include touch-screen
capabilities for use on tablet computers and digital “cards”
that can embed charts or snippets of advertising campaigns for
sharing between co-workers.  The cards feature, which the company plans to demonstrate
at its Adobe Summit conference in Salt Lake City this week, is
aimed at easing collaboration among users in different
departments creating ad campaigns using Adobe tools, said Brad Rencher, Adobe’s senior vice-president of digital marketing.  “The search marketer isn’t talking to the person who runs
the site, who isn’t talking to the social marketer, who isn’t
talking to the analyst,” Rencher said in an interview. “All
these people are using Adobe tools.”  Adobe, maker of popular design programs such as Photoshop
and Illustrator, has been using  acquisitions  including Omniture,
Efficient Frontier and Day Software to add tools for marketers
to create and measure Web campaigns.  Peter Goldmacher , an analyst at Cowen & Co., expects
Marketing Cloud software to bring in $932 million in sales this
year, 23 percent of Adobe’s projected 2013 revenue.  Adobe is facing competition from  Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM) ,
 Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  and  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  in
marketing software. Adobe’s  conference , which runs March 4 to 8,
will feature a performance by the Black Keys and a talk by Felix Baumgartner, the Austrian adventurer who jumped from a helium
balloon 24 miles above the Earth in October.  Adobe, based in San Jose, California, gained 2.5 percent to
$41.46 yesterday in New York. The shares have advanced 25
percent in the past year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  