-- Madoff Trustee’s Merkin Claims ‘Absurd,’ New York Says
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2013-03-06T20:06:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/madoff-trustee-unlikely-to-win-merkin-suit-n-y-says.html
The trustee for  Bernard Madoff ’s
bankrupt firm made “absurd” claims about money being withheld
from the Ponzi scheme’s victims while fighting to stop a
$410 million settlement, a lawyer for  New York  Attorney General
Eric Schneiderman said.  Trustee Irving Picard said last month that the settlement,
negotiated by Schneiderman with former Madoff investor J. Ezra Merkin, will allow Merkin to use money stolen from customers to
help fend off Picard lawsuits demanding $500 million. A lawyer
for Picard called Merkin’s $410 million agreement to compensate
victims, sealed in federal court in  Manhattan , “illusory.”  “That is absurd,” David Ellenhorn, a lawyer for
Schneiderman, told U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff yesterday in a
court filing. While lawyers defending Merkin in other cases will
be paid, and Schneiderman will recoup $5 million for three years
of litigation against Merkin, most of the money will go to Ponzi
victims, he said.  “All of the remaining settlement funds, out of the $410
million, will be used to compensate victims of Merkin’s
wrongdoing,” Ellenhorn said. “Not one penny will revert to
Merkin.”  Paying Merkin’s lawyers who are facilitating the
settlement, which requires the former Madoff investor to give up
$410 million of his personal assets, is “required, and
appropriate,” Ellenhorn said.  ‘Extremely Unlikely’  Separately, Merkin said Picard is “extremely unlikely” to
win his own lawsuit against Merkin and his funds. Rakoff
shouldn’t allow the trustee to block the settlement because “in
the unlikely event” that Picard does win part of his suit,
Merkin’s funds would still be able to pay him, he said in a
filing.  Both Merkin and the attorney general made additional
filings in the case citing Picard’s “unusual” and
“extraordinary” request for an injunction to give him time to
build his own suit against Merkin.  Two Merkin funds, “Gabriel and Ariel, whose assets are
approximately $500 million each, have more than sufficient
assets to satisfy any potential judgment the trustee could
obtain on his claims against them of $17.4 million and $16.2
million, respectively,” Merkin said.  A third fund, Ascot, is owed money by the trustee or at
worst would be short by only $8 million to pay him, he said.  Two Years  Picard’s chances of winning were slim, Schneiderman and
Merkin both said. Merkin noted that Rakoff had already ruled
that bankruptcy law limits the trustee to taking back money
invested only in the two years before a Ponzi scheme’s collapse,
“and then only upon a showing that the funds were willfully
blind to Madoff’s fraud.” He denied that was the case.  “It is utterly specious for the trustee to pretend that
the claims in the NYAG action against Merkin are ‘inextricably
intertwined’ with the trustee’s claims,” said Schneiderman,
who has argued that Picard has no legal right to stop the
settlement because Merkin’s money doesn’t belong to the Madoff
estate.  The case is Picard v. Schneiderman, 12-cv-06733, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  