-- Maduro Announces Chavez Death, Asks Venezuelans to Keep Peace
-- B y   C o r i n a   P o n s   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2013-03-06T00:17:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/maduro-announces-chavez-death-asks-venezuelans-to-keep-peace.html
Venezuelan Vice President  Nicolas
Maduro  announced the death of President Hugo Chavez on state
television today.  “When we were accompanying his daughter and his brothers,
we received the most difficult and tragic news that we could
convey to the people.  ‘‘At 4:25 p.m. this afternoon, our comandante and president
passed away after battling hard with a sickness for almost two
years, for the love of the people, with the blessings of the
people and the loyalty of his comrades in arms.  ‘‘We convey our heartache and solidarity to their families.  ‘‘We have sent the special police and the armed forces to
the street to protect our people and guarantee peace.  ‘‘We take up the legacy of Chavez, his plan, his
challenges. Their flags will be raised with honor and dignity.
Wherever you are comandante, thank you from this people, whom
you protected and loved.  ‘‘We ask that the people channel our grief in peace, with
tranquility.  ‘‘We call on the people to sing in all the Bolivarian
plazas of this nation. Those who die for life cannot be called
dead.  ‘‘Much strength to our compatriots to use pain to grow.
Today we must be more united than ever.  ‘‘Those factions that never have supported Chavez, we call
to them also in peace. Respect comandante  Hugo Chavez . In the
next hours we’ll be announcing all the plans to pay posthumous
tribute to comandante Chavez. Where his immortal remains will be
watched over forever.  ‘‘As well as announce the schedule for his final rest.  ‘‘Much strength, much prayer, and assume these difficulties
of life with the greatest love for Chavez.  ‘‘Honor and glory to Hugo Chavez! May he live forever!’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 