-- Aerovironment Falls on Slower Drone Sales: Los Angeles Mover
-- B y   N i c k   T a b o r e k
-- 2013-03-06T16:49:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/aerovironment-falls-on-slower-drone-sales-los-angeles-mover-1-.html
Drone maker  Aerovironment Inc. (AVAV)  fell
the most in almost four years after its third-quarter sales
plunged 35 percent amid a slowdown in U.S. military orders.  “We’ve experienced acquisition delays in the past that
have impacted planned revenues within a period, but never of
this magnitude,” Chief Executive Officer Tim Conver said
yesterday during a conference call with analysts.  Aerovironment  fell  14 percent, the biggest intraday drop
since March 2009, to $18.63 at 11:47 a.m. in  New York . They
earlier fell as much as 22 percent.  Aerovironment said yesterday that its sales declined to
$47.1 million in the quarter ended Jan. 26 compared with $72
million in the year-ago period. Analysts had predicted revenue
of $89.3 million, the average of 13 estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  The company cut its full-year profit forecast to 30 cents
to 50 cents a share, from $1.41 to $1.51 a share.  Orders for Monrovia, California-based Aerovironment’s small
surveillance drones slowed as the Pentagon prepared for
automatic budget cuts that took effect March 1. The reductions,
known as sequestration, will slice $85 billion from government
programs in the next seven months.  Defense Slowdown  Delays in the federal government’s acquisitions have
“exceeded even our most conservative estimates and we have
reset our order plans and our expectations,” Conver said.  Contracts to provide small drones to the military haven’t
been canceled, and the Defense Department still intends to
complete planned purchases, he said.  Jeremy Devaney, an analyst at BB&T Capital Markets in
Reston,  Virginia , downgraded Aerovironment shares to hold from
buy.  “We are stepping to the sidelines because we are concerned
that some near-term upside catalysts are no longer present and
others are at risk of slipping” into fiscal 2014, he wrote in a
note to clients today.  William Loomis, an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in
Baltimore, maintained his hold rating on Aerovironment shares.  “We do see the company as being well positioned to recover
once the budget and procurement process stabilize given its
strong market share,” he wrote today in a note to clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Taborek in Washington at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  