-- AIG to Start Loan Investment Unit as Housing Rebounds
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   K a t h l e e n   M .   H o w l e y
-- 2013-03-06T21:38:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/aig-to-start-loan-investment-unit-as-housing-rebounds.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,
the insurer that was rescued by the U.S. government in 2008
after soured bets on mortgage securities, is building a unit to
buy individual home loans amid a rebound in the  housing market .  AIG plans to buy loans backed by its United Guaranty Corp.
unit, the largest seller of traditional private mortgage
insurance last year, according to Donna DeMaio, 54, the unit’s
chief executive officer. The debt will be held as long-term
investments by AIG insurance companies.  “You’re cutting the middle man out of the securitization
process,” DeMaio said, referring to bonds that package home
loans. The yield on an individual mortgage “is better than if
you just bought the paper backed by the whole loan.”  AIG CEO  Robert Benmosche , 68, said in October the New York-
based firm has to find ways to boost returns as the Federal
Reserve keeps interest rates near record lows, reducing bond
yields. He’s also positioning the firm to benefit as the U.S.
cuts its role as the largest financier of new loans for American
home buyers. Edward J. DeMarco, the  Federal Housing Finance
Agency ’s acting director, said this week that he wants to expand
the private market for mortgages by shrinking government-owned
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.  AIG’s program is “dovetailing very nicely with what’s
going on in the market,” DeMaio said yesterday in a telephone
interview.  Risk Prediction  The new unit, Connective Mortgage Advisory Co., will
evaluate loans made by other lenders for purchase by AIG, said
DeMaio, who joined the insurer last year and previously ran
 MetLife (MET)  Inc.’s bank. Connective, part of Greensboro, North
Carolina-based United Guaranty will use data compiled by the
mortgage insurer to help AIG determine which loans to buy. It
won’t originate loans or bundle them into securities.  “Let’s use the expertise within United Guaranty to look at
the loans we’re already insuring to see if purchasing some of
those loans makes sense for the AIG portfolio,” DeMaio said.  AIG has boosted investment in U.S. property markets less
than five years after real-estate wagers forced the government
to rescue the insurer, once the world’s largest. The Fed had to
step in after AIG sold derivatives to banks protecting them
against losses on housing debt, with the U.S. bailout reaching
$182.3 billion.  Benmosche’s firm last year bought $7.1 billion of mortgage-
related securities from Maiden Lane III, a vehicle created by
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to help save AIG. The
company rose 0.5 percent to $38.45 as of 4:15 p.m. in New York,
and has rallied 32 percent in the past year as the insurer sold
units and repurchased stock to help end the bailout.  Cut Reliance  Benmosche has said AIG needs to cut reliance on Wall Street
and increase control over the risks the company takes with its
investments as part of a strategy to generate better returns.
The CEO said at an industry conference in October that AIG may
pursue direct investing in real estate.  “We’re going to have to figure out how to manufacture our
own yields,” Benmosche said at the conference. “It’s making
sure that we are taking control of the risks we’re going to put
on our books, and we can’t rely on the public markets.”  AIG invests cash it receives from selling insurance
policies in assets such as stocks and bonds. The $376 billion
portfolio included $36.1 billion of residential mortgage-backed
securities and $12.4 billion of commercial mortgage-backed bonds
as of Dec. 31. The firm also has $13.8 billion of direct
commercial mortgages and $3.2 billion of investment real estate.  First Purchase  AIG purchased its first residential whole loan last month
under the new initiative and Connective is initially hiring
about 15 people, according to DeMaio. The insurer will purchase
conforming loans and may eventually buy jumbos, or those too big
for government programs, she said.  The growing role in mortgage finance comes after AIG scaled
back consumer lending amid the financial crisis. The company
sold American General Finance Inc. to  Fortress Investment Group
LLC (FIG)  in 2010 as Benmosche narrowed the focus of his company and
reduced debt.  AIG is also considering closing its bank to prepare for
increased government regulation such as the Volcker rule, which
limits proprietary trading and investing in private equity or
hedge funds. MetLife, the largest U.S. life insurer, divested
residential mortgage businesses and deposits to give up its bank
status, and Hartford Financial Services Group Inc. and Allstate
Corp. have also retreated from banking.  Largest Seller  United Guaranty was the largest seller of traditional
private mortgage coverage last year, according to data from
Inside Mortgage Finance. The unit accounted for $9 million of
AIG’s $6.6 billion in operating profit in 2012. Mortgage
guarantors cover losses when homeowners default and foreclosures
fail to recoup costs.  Mortgage insurers, such as United Guaranty,  MGIC Investment
Corp. (MTG)  and  Radian Group Inc. (RDN)  are benefiting this year as the U.S.
government seeks to encourage more private capital into the
market. MGIC has doubled this year and said yesterday it’s begun
an offering for 135 million common shares and $350 million in
convertible senior notes due in 2020. The stock offering would
raise about $721 million at yesterday’s closing price of $5.34.
Radian raised $689 million last week selling stock and notes and
has rallied 63 percent since December.  “There is a significant amount of capital interested in
our industry,” MGIC Chief Financial Officer Michael Lauer said
on a conference call with analysts after the Radian offering.  The government is in an “uncomfortable position” because
it backs about 90 percent of new mortgages, FHFA’s DeMarco said
in a speech this week. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were seized by
the government in 2008 after investments in subprime securities
pushed them into insolvency.  Gradual Reduction  “With an uncertain future and a general desire for private
capital to re-enter the market, the enterprises’ market presence
should be reduced gradually over time,” DeMarco said.  Restrictive loan standards in a recovering real estate
market are also making non-securitized mortgages appealing to
yield-hungry investors. The median U.S. home price rose 12
percent in January from a year earlier, the biggest gain since
2005, and an improving labor market has lowered the risk of
defaults.  The average credit score for borrowers rose to 749 out of a
possible 850 in January, up from 741 in August 2011, according
to Ellie Mae Inc., a mortgage software firm in Pleasanton,
 California .  Banks including  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  have been earning record
profits from home loans as mortgage rates hover near November’s
all-time low of 3.3 percent, fueling demand.  Redwood Trust Inc. (RWT) ,
which packages jumbo mortgages into bonds, has returned 94
percent in the past year, including reinvested dividends.  “The companies that are doing lending today, they are
doing extremely well, because they’re not just willing to give
anyone a loan,” said David Marcus, CEO of Evermore Global
Advisors LLC, which owns AIG shares. “There are great
opportunities for companies with the scale of AIG.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen M. Howley in  Boston  at 
 kmhowley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  