-- AirAsia Wins Nod for India Airline Venture Investment
-- B y   T u s h a r   D h a r a
-- 2013-03-06T09:21:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/airasia-india-venture-gets-approval-in-first-overseas-investment.html
AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA)  won approval in India
to form a joint venture, the country’s first foreign investment
proposal after airline ownership rules were eased.  The airline venture, which includes the  Tata group , was
approved by the  Foreign Investment Promotion Board  and will now
need to get a license from the Directorate General of Civil
Aviation, Economic Affairs Secretary Arvind Mayaram told
reporters in New Delhi today. AirAsia, which will own 49 percent
of the venture, will initially invest about 800 million rupees
($14.6 million) in the airline operator, he said.  The approval comes as carriers in Asia’s third-largest
economy seek global equity alliances to raise funds needed to
pay for expansion. Jet Airways ( India ) Ltd. and Etihad Airways
PJSC are holding talks for an investment deal in India’s biggest
carrier by market value after ownership rules were eased in
September.  The aviation regulator may take as many as eight months to
approve the permit as it involves steps including inspection of
aircraft proposed to be deployed, according to a civil aviation
ministry official, who declined to be named citing rules.  Shares of AirAsia, Asia’s biggest budget carrier, gained 1
percent to 2.96 ringgit at the close in  Kuala Lumpur .  AirAsia along with partners Tata Sons Ltd. and Telestra
Tradeplace Pvt. will invest $9 million within 14 days of winning
approval, according to the application submitted to the
investment panel. The entry of the region’s biggest discount
airline will increase competition for Jet Airways that conceded
domestic  market leadership  to budget airline IndiGo last year.  The new airline will operate from Chennai in south India
and will provide services to smaller cities in the country,
AirAsia said in a statement Feb. 20. Tata Sons will hold 30
percent in the venture and Telestra 21 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tushar Dhara in  New Delhi  at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  