-- AirAsia X Weighs IPO Timing as Malaysia Prepares for Polls
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2013-03-06T09:25:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/airasia-x-weighs-ipo-timing-as-malaysia-prepares-for-elections.html
AirAsia X Bhd., the long-haul arm of
 Asia ’s biggest budget carrier, is weighing the timing for a
planned initial public offering that may help it raise about
$250 million, as Malaysia prepares for general elections.  “We don’t have a specific date yet for the general
elections,” Chief Executive Officer Azran Osman-Rani said in an
interview today from Kuala Lumpur with Bloomberg Television’s
 Rishaad Salamat . “We are going to be guided by the investment
bank advisers whether or not it’s really an issue or whether
it’s been priced in.”  The five-year-old airline plans to use the IPO proceeds to
boost its fleet, add flights and destinations, according to
Azran. An IPO by AirAsia X would be the second of three proposed
listings by affiliates of  AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA)  as the Malaysian group
raises funds to accelerate expansion.  The listing document, filed with the Securities Commission
in November, is being resubmitted to include earnings for the
six months through December, Azran said in a separate interview
today. AirAsia X also plans to raise an additional $160 million
through a bonds sale as early as the second quarter of this year
to finance aircraft, he said.  Shares of AirAsia gained 1 percent to close at 2.96 ringgit
in Kuala Lumpur, outperforming a 0.6 percent advance in the
 benchmark  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index.  AirAsia X, based in Sepang, Malaysia, plans to raise about
$250 million from the IPO, a person familiar with the sale said
in November, declining to be named as the information was
confidential. Prime Minister Najib Razak must dissolve
parliament by April 28 for polls to be conducted within 60 days.  Aircraft Purchases  Asia Aviation Pcl (AAV) , the parent of Thai AirAsia Co., was the
first among AirAsia affiliates to sell shares in Bangkok last
year. AirAsia’s Indonesian unit will also go public in the third
quarter, Group Chief Executive Officer  Tony Fernandes  said last
month.  Proceeds from the share sale will help finance new aircraft
as AirAsia X takes delivery of seven Airbus SAS A330 planes this
year, adding to an existing fleet of 11 aircraft, Azran said
today. The carrier, which dropped routes to London and Paris
last year to focus on Asia and Australia, may add destinations
including Adelaide in Australia and Xian, Chongqing and Wuhan in
 China . It may also fly to Nagoya in  Japan  and Busan in  South
Korea , he said.  The KLCI index has declined 2.5 percent since hitting a
record high on Jan. 7 amid speculation the general election may
result in the ruling coalition losing seats.  “At some point we’re not going to be able to keep holding
on and we just have to move ahead,” Azran said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  