-- Amnesty For Immigrants Spurs Greater Employment in U.S.
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2013-03-06T05:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/amnesty-for-immigrants-spurs-greater-employment-in-u-s-.html
Alejandrino Honorato’s journey began
with a smuggler who led him across the  Rio Grande , into the
Texas desert with little food or water and finally to a field
where he picked tobacco to pay his passage. Living illegally in
a labor camp, he didn’t know lawmakers in  Washington  were
deciding his future.  It was 1986 and Congress was weighing an  amnesty  plan to
legalize millions of undocumented workers. Unemployment was 7
percent. Some lawmakers warned the change would overwhelm the
economy and strain hospitals and schools. “Are we going to
cause havoc?” said Representative Bill McCollum, a  Florida 
Republican, as the House prepared to vote.  The bill became law and Honorato came out of the  shadows .
Today, he owns two eateries and a market in central Florida and
has about 60 employees. “I’ve helped a lot of people work,”
Honorato, 49, said through a translator. “If people were
legalized they’d have a chance to open businesses like me.”  More than a quarter century after Congress last rewrote the
law, immigration is again a top Washington issue. President
 Barack Obama  has made changing the law a priority in his second
term. A group of senators including Democrat  Charles Schumer  of
New York and Republican  John McCain  of Arizona are drafting
legislation that will include a path to residency -- and perhaps
citizenship -- for 11 million undocumented workers.  “It’s time to fix a system that’s been broken for way too
long,” Obama said in January. “We’ve got to bring our legal
immigration system into the 21st century.”  Hot-Button Word  With  unemployment  at 7.9 percent and more than  12 million 
Americans out of work, politicians are avoiding the hot-button
word “amnesty.” They also are armed with more than two decades
of research showing that the 1986 law raised wages and boosted
the economy. Economists at the free-market  Cato Institute , the
pro-labor  Center for American Progress  and the business and
municipal  Partnership for a New American Economy  are in rare
agreement that legalization makes economic sense.  Almost 3 million people were documented between 1987 and
1990 as a result of the Immigration Reform and Control Act. By
1992, more than four years after legalization, real hourly wages
for those workers had risen an average of 15.1 percent,
according to a Department of Labor survey.  Wages  overall
continued to rise, according to a 2012 study by the Economic
Policy Institute in Washington, even as the nation entered a
 recession  that lasted from July 1990 to March 1991.  Barriers to upward economic mobility eased as the newly
legalized found jobs that better matched their skills. They
ventured deeper into society, pursuing educations and buying
homes, said Raul Hinojosa-Ojeda, director of the North American
Integration and Development Center at the  University of
California ,  Los Angeles .  ‘A Stakeholder Now’  “You have a chance to make it, you’re a stakeholder now,”
Hinojosa-Ojeda said. “These people are employed already. It’s
not like you’re bringing them in and dumping them onto the labor
market.”  A comprehensive immigration plan that includes a path to
legalization could add $1.5 trillion to the  economy  over the
next 10 years and increase tax revenues by $4.5 billion or more
in three years, Hinojosa-Ojeda said.  Honorato made his way to Apopka, Florida, where he found
work in a greenhouse, bought a home and raised a family. In
1998, he and his brother used their savings to buy a $15,000
tortilla maker and open their first restaurant.  Economy Gained  The American economy long has profited from an influx of
foreign-born workers. Several studies, including a September
2010  report  from  Michael Greenstone , director of an immigration
project at the Washington-based  Brookings Institution  and an
economics professor at the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology 
in Cambridge, conclude that immigrants occupy jobs in labor-
intensive industries such as construction and agriculture,
complementing more-skilled workers. On the other end of the 
spectrum, they meet demand for scientists and engineers, fueling
innovation and entrepreneurship.  And there’s a new economic imperative -- the demographic
cliff, Hinojosa-Ojeda and others say. As a generation of  baby
boomers  enters retirement and fewer young people  start families ,
the growth of the  labor force  is slowing, putting a drag on the
recovery, even as the 1986 law and others since have made  legal
immigration  more difficult.  Economic forecasts are getting less optimistic as
population growth decelerates, said Matt McDonald, an adviser to
McCain’s 2008 presidential campaign and a partner at Hamilton
Place Strategies, a Washington-based consulting group. Citing
research by the  Congressional Budget Office , McDonald said the
rate of work force growth is expected to drop to 0.5 percent in
the next five years, to the slowest in decades, while gross
domestic product increases also moderate.  Low-Skilled Hurt  Steven Camarota, director of research for the Center for
Immigration Studies, a Washington research group that advocates
for border controls, says that while legalizing immigrants will
have little impact on the overall economy, it could hurt pockets
of low-skilled workers.  “The impact of illegal immigration on GDP in the U.S. is
so tiny it’s almost not worth thinking about,” he said. “But
it could matter a whole lot to those workers who are affected.”
The 1986 act failed, he said, not because of amnesty but because
of its weak enforcement provisions to control illegal
immigration.  The  labor force  as a whole will benefit from the
documentation of unauthorized workers by leveling the playing
field for wages, said Heidi Shierholz, an economist with
 Economic Policy Institute . The challenge will be managing the
future flow of immigrants, she said.  Costs Apparent  The costs of an undocumented workforce become apparent over
time as the tax base erodes and the ability of government to
enforce  labor laws  is weakened, according to a 2012 study by Pia Orrenius, a senior economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of
 Dallas . A path to legalization could help solve those problems,
she concluded.  “Legalization has economic benefits, most of which accrue
to the people who adjust their status and their families,” she
 wrote . “Tax revenues are likely to increase, an important
consideration in an era of large deficits.”  Amnesty allows people a larger stake in the economy, said
 Rodolfo Cardenas . He and his wife applied for legal status after
the couple overstayed their student visas in 1987. They were
living in Boulder,  Colorado , with their small son, and his part-
time job at a radio station didn’t pay the bills. With help from
their parents in  Venezuela , they stayed and applied for amnesty.  “We thought, ‘Let’s give it a shot,’” Cardenas said.
“There was no way we were going to stay here and live in the
shadows.”  After obtaining their documents, they found full-time jobs.
Now 59, Cardenas hosts a Spanish-language radio  talk show . And
their son? He got amnesty too. In 2007, Rudy Cardenas, then 28,
made an appearance on “ American Idol .”  “The 1986 law changed our lives,” Cardenas said. “It’s a
story of success that only happens here in this country.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Lorraine Woellert in
Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  