-- Lanny Davis, Darrell Issa; Old Wilson House: D.C. Scene
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2013-03-06T15:58:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/lanny-davis-darrell-issa-old-wilson-house-d-c-scene.html
Attorney and TV commentator Lanny J. Davis celebrated his new book, “Crisis Tales: Five Rules for
Coping With Crises in Business, Politics, and Life,” with a
wine and cheese reception last night at the Hamilton.  Turnout was strong and bipartisan. Host James Wholey,
partner and co-chairman of the government-affairs group at law
firm  Dilworth Paxson  LLP, marveled at “what you can accomplish
with an open bar.”  Davis also works for the firm, yet the two men differ on
politics. Davis is a former attorney in the Clinton White House,
and Wholey was a top staffer to former Republican Senator  Bob Dole .  Crises “admit no party or ideology,” Wholey said.  Davis has made his name as a virtual crisis fireman for a
range of clients from Clinton to  Martha Stewart .  Representative  Darrell Issa , the California Republican and
chairman of the House Committee on Oversight and Government
Reform, and his fellow committee member Representative  Elijah Cummings , the Maryland Democrat, paid homage to Davis for
forging partnerships on both sides of the aisle throughout his
career.  Michael Steele , former chairman of the Republican National
Committee, and Davis have joined forces on Purple Nation
Solutions, a lobbying and media consulting firm.  “Hence the purple shirt and tie,” Steele said, referring
to his wardrobe choice of the day.  Steele and Issa voiced hope at the news this week that
former Florida Governor Jeb Bush may run for president.  “All odd numbers belong to the Bushes,” Issa joked.  Grover Norquist , president of Americans for  Tax Reform ,
said he was heading to warmer climes this week to speak at the
 Goldwater Institute  in Arizona about his favorite subject:
fiscal discipline.  “We’re friends even though we disagree about virtually
everything,” Davis said of Norquist. Their one political
meeting point: “I’m a good liberal Democrat, except on the
deficit. I’m a deficit hawk,” Davis said.  Among the Democrats in the house were Representative Rob Andrews of  New Jersey , Representative Chaka Fattah of
Pennsylvania, and former congressman C. Thomas McMillen of
Maryland, now the chairman and chief executive of  Timios
National Corp. (HOMS)   Historic Place  Woodrow Wilson House , where the former president lived
after vacating the White House, was the site of a dinner Monday
evening to mark the centennial of his inauguration.  Guests hovered around Wilson’s desk and piano during the
cocktail hour. A three-course meal was served in the dining room
under a portrait of Wilson’s second wife, Edith.  One of the last events she hosted was a reception for
Jacqueline Kennedy as the new first lady in the spring of 1961.
Edith Wilson died that December.  “Historic places matter,” said Robert Enholm, executive
director of the Woodrow Wilson House. “There is a solemnity to
this place.”  Thomas Perriello, former Democratic congressman of Virginia
and president and chief executive officer of the Center for
American Progress Action Fund, drew comparisons between the
Wilson and Obama eras, calling both presidents “intellectual,
hyper-rational globalists.”  ( Stephanie Green  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include Ryan Sutton on  dining , David
Shribman on  books .  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 