-- Apache Said to Weigh Sale of Deep-Water Assets in Gulf
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e ,   E d w a r d   K l u m p   a n d   M a t t h e w   M o n k s
-- 2013-03-06T22:25:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/apache-said-to-weigh-sale-of-deep-water-assets-in-gulf.html
Apache Corp. (APA) , the fourth-largest
U.S. independent oil and natural gas producer by market value,
is weighing a sale of its deep-water assets in the  Gulf of
Mexico , according to a person familiar with the matter.  The company may begin a sale process as early as next week,
said the person, who asked not to be identified
because the matter is private. Only its deep-water assets in the
U.S. Gulf would be part of the sale, the person said.  Apache spent more than $16 billion buying offshore and
onshore assets from 2010 to 2012, boosting holdings in the U.S.,
Canada, Egypt and the North Sea. On Feb. 14, Apache said it
planned to sell holdings worth about $2 billion after its three-
year buying spree, with some proceeds possibly helping to pay
down debt.  John Roper , a spokesman for Houston-based Apache,
said he was unable to comment on the specifics of the asset
sale.  “We are actively exploring several different alternatives
toward reaching that goal but it is very early in the process,”
he said.  A sale of its deep-water Gulf assets would represent a
reversal of strategy for the oil and gas producer, which was
seen as making its entry into the deep Gulf with its 2010
acquisition of Mariner Energy Inc. for $2.7 billion. The
purchase, at a 45 percent premium over Mariner’s closing price
the day before the deal was announced, made Apache “a player”
in the deep-water Gulf,  Scott Hanold , an analyst at  RBC Capital
Markets , said at the time.  Apache also obtained drilling acreage in the Permian Basin
of West Texas with the deal.  900,000 Acres  Apache at year-end owned 900,000 gross acres in the Gulf Of
Mexico deep-water region, according to the company’s  annual
report  released March 1. The region contributed 2 percent of its
total oil and gas production in 2012, according to its annual
report. Apache planned to invest $400 million drilling seven new
wells and undertaking other projects in the region in 2013, the
filing states.  Plains Exploration & Production Co. last year paid BP Plc
$5.55 billion for deep-water  oil fields  in the Gulf. When
announcing that deal in September, Plains reported that those
fields produced the equivalent of 59,500 barrels of oil per day.  Apache’s deep-water fields in the the gulf produced close
to the equivalent of 18,000 barrels of oil per day in the fourth
quarter, according to the company’s website.  The company is now seeking growth from onshore projects in
North America, such as in the Permian Basin. Apache said last
year it planned to boost the percentage of output that comes
from U.S. onshore properties to 41 percent in 2016 from 21
percent in 2011.  ConocoPhillips (COP) ,  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  and  EOG Resources
Inc. (EOG)  are the largest U.S. independent oil and gas producers by
market value, meaning they don’t have refineries or chemical
units.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Monks in  New York  at 
 mmonks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  