-- Mapletree Greater China REIT Draws Investors on Yield
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e   a n d   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2013-03-07T02:34:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/mapletree-greater-china-reit-draws-investors-with-higher-yields.html
Mapletree Greater China Commercial
Trust (MAGIC) , Asia’s biggest share sale this year, was 29.5 times
subscribed as assets including the Festival Walk shopping mall
in Hong Kong offered higher returns than comparable properties.  The property trust, which starts trading in Singapore at 2
p.m. local time tomorrow, raised S$1.6 billion ($1.3 billion)
offering shares at 93 Singapore cents apiece. The price reflects
a 5.6 percent yield for the year ending March 2014, compared
with the 4.2 percent return for the  Bloomberg Asia REIT Index. (BBAREIT)   “The REIT has an attractive yield compared to other REITs
with assets in Hong Kong or China,” said Vijay Natarajan, a
Singapore-based analyst at UOB-Kay Hian Pte. “Mapletree is a
trusted brand with a strong track record and its last REITs have
done well.”  The trust is the fourth by Mapletree Investments Pte, a
property unit of Temasek Holdings Pte,  Singapore ’s state-owned
investment company. Mapletree Industrial Trust and Mapletree
Commercial Trust have advanced about 50 percent from their offer
prices, while Mapletree Logistics Trust is up more than 70
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Trusts have dominated Singapore’s IPO market in recent
years as high-yielding assets gained popularity amid low
interest rates.  A total of 30 REITs and property trusts were listed in the
city-state with a combined value of S$56 billion, making up 6
percent of the total market capitalization of stocks traded,
Lawrence Wong, head of listings at the  Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX) ,
said in a statement on Feb. 27. “SGX also has the largest
number of cross-border asset REITs in Asia,” he said.  Slowing Growth  Still, the share sale comes as  China ’s growth slows.
Expansion in industries including retailing, transportation and
banking was the slowest in five months in February, according to
an official survey of purchasing managers on March 3. Gauges
released March 1 pointed to manufacturing growth cooling.  “The REIT’s properties are located in some of the best
shopping and business areas in Chinese cities, which are
offering strong growth prospects even with the economy showing
signs of weakness,” said Tata Goeyardi, a Singapore-based
analyst at Religare Capital Markets. “The REIT offers an
attractive yield.”  Mapletree Greater China will include the Gateway Plaza
office complex in Beijing, a sales document for the IPO showed.
The sale was the biggest IPO of a real estate investment trust
in Singapore, surpassing the previous offerings by Mapletree.  Growing Distributions  “Our yield plus growth strategy through active asset
management and asset enhancement initiatives together with
potential acquisition growth in top-tier cities in Greater
China, will enable stable and growing distributions to be
made,” Cindy Chow, chief executive officer of Mapletree Greater
China’s management company, said in a statement late yesterday,
referring to dividend payouts to investors.  Mapletree Greater China’s price also offers a 6.1 percent
yield for the year ending March 2015, it said. CapitaRetail
China Trust, an owner of Chinese shopping malls managed by
Southeast Asia’s biggest developer, offers a 5.4 percent yield
based on its share price, while Hong Kong’s Link REIT has a 3.3
return, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Singapore REITs have  outperformed  the city-state’s Straits
Times Index this year, returning 5 percent compared with a 3.8
percent gain in the benchmark measure.  Cornerstone Investors  Mapletree Commercial Trust completed a $754 million initial
share sale in April 2011 and Mapletree Industrial Trust raised
$714 million in October the previous year. Mapletree Logistics
Trust raised $144 million in 2005.  Mapletree Investments will own about a third of its newest
REIT after the sale.  About 953 million of the 1.7 billion shares were sold to
so-called cornerstone investors, including AIA Group Ltd. and
Morgan Stanley. Also among cornerstone investors are Henderson
Global Investors Ltd., Myriad Asset Management Ltd. and Norges
Bank Investment Management, which runs  Norway ’s sovereign wealth
fund, the sales document showed.  Citigroup Inc., Goldman Sachs Group Inc., DBS Group
Holdings Ltd. and HSBC Holdings Plc managed the offer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Klaus Wille in Singapore at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net ;
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  