-- Armenian Politician Arrested Over Shooting of Presidential Rival
-- B y   S a r a   K h o j o y a n
-- 2013-03-06T12:49:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/armenian-politician-arrested-over-shooting-of-presidential-rival.html
An Armenian politician was arrested
on suspicion of ordering the shooting of a fellow contender in
last month’s presidential elections.  Vardan Sedrakyan, 46, an authority on Armenian epic poetry
who garnered 0.4 percent in the vote, was detained late
yesterday in the capital, Yerevan, in connection with the Jan.
31 attack on Paruyr Hayrikyan, 63, National Security Service
spokesman Artsvin Baghramyan said today by phone. Sedrakyan will
be held in pre-trial custody for two months while an
investigation continues into the case, he said.  Sedrakyan’s lawyer, Aleksandr Sirunyan, didn’t respond to
calls to his mobile and office phone numbers. His client denies
the accusations, Sirunyan told the Panorama.am news website.  Sedrakyan was one of eight candidates running for the
presidency on Feb. 18, the sixth time the former Soviet republic
elected a leader since independence in 1991. President Serzh Sargsyan won 59 percent of the vote, beating his chief rival
Raffi Hovhannisyan by more than 20 percentage points, according
to official results.  Thousands of Armenians have joined the runner-up’s call to
challenge the vote tally as opposition groups seek to gain
traction against Sargsyan’s rule. The president is set to be
inaugurated for his second term April 9.  Two men suspected of involvement in the shooting were
arrested by the state security agency on Feb. 7. Both were
previously hired by Sedrakyan to perform repairs on his house.
After their detention, Sedrakyan told reporters he faced a
probable arrest after Feb. 25, when international election
observers were scheduled to leave the country.  Hayrikyan, who is still hospitalized and recovering from
injuries sustained in the shooting, declined to comment on the
arrest through his assistant, Vrezh Zatikyan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Khojoyan in Yerevan, Armenia at 
 skhojoyan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net  