-- Arsenal Wants to Sign Swansea Defender Williams: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-03-06T06:34:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/arsenal-wants-to-sign-swansea-defender-williams-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers with clickable Internet links.  Wenger Wants Williams  Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger wants to sign Wales captain
Ashley Williams from Swansea City at the end of the season, the
 Guardian reported .  Wenger has identified Williams, who is contracted until
2015 and would cost about 8 million pounds ($12.1 million, as
having the leadership qualities to control and organize
Arsenal’s defense having lost faith in his central-defensive
partnership of Thomas Vermaelen and Per Mertesacker, the
newspaper added.  Carroll Unconvincing  West Ham United is set to send Andy Carroll back to
Liverpool when his loan spell finishes at the end of the season,
the  Sun reported .  England striker Carroll hasn’t done enough to clinch a
permanent 17 million-pound move and justify wages of 84,000
pounds a week, the Sun said. The Hammers will instead turn their
attention to Southampton’s Rickie Lambert, who would cost about
6 million pounds, the newspaper added.  Teenage Trial  Liverpool is set to invite teenage striker Daniel Carr,
who’s scored 23 goals in as many games for London-based non-
league team Dulwich Hamlet this season, for a weeklong trial,
the  Daily Mail reported .  The 18-year-old Carr, who plays eight tiers below  England ’s
top division, has been monitored by several Premier League
clubs, the newspaper added.  Call for Help  Liverpool goalkeeper Pepe Reina called on the club’s board
to add quality players in the offseason to ensure manager
Brendan Rodgers is able to build on the team’s solid
foundations, the  Daily Telegraph reported .  “Obviously we will need some help from the board but I
think the basis is well settled,” the Telegraph cited Reina as
saying. “We know the ideas and philosophies of the manager. It
is getting better and better so hopefully we will be ready to
compete.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  