-- Artisan Makes Second Run at IPO With Dow at Record
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2013-03-06T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/artisan-makes-second-run-at-ipo-with-dow-at-record.html
Artisan Partners Asset Management
Inc. (APAM) , the Milwaukee-based money manager that withdrew plans to
go public in 2011, is making a second attempt after a stock-
market rally whetted investor appetite for equity funds.  Artisan, which offers a dozen U.S. and non-U.S. investment
strategies, is seeking as much as $333 million in an initial
public offering today, pricing 11.5 million shares at $27 to $29
each, according to regulatory filings. The midpoint of that
range would value Artisan at $1.93 billion. The company will
trade under the symbol APAM on the New York Stock Exchange.  Artisan, led by Executive Chairman Andrew Ziegler and Chief
Executive Officer Eric Colson, withdrew its registration in
December 2011, citing “unfavorable market conditions.” Markets
have rebounded since then, with the  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
surging 17 percent since the end of 2011 and closing at a record
14,254 yesterday. Equity mutual funds in the U.S. attracted $54
billion in the first seven weeks of the year, according to data
from the  Investment Company Institute .  Artisan’s funds include the top-performing $6.6 billion
Artisan International Value Fund, which beat 99 percent of peers
over the past five years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The $8 billion Artisan Mid Cap Value Fund beat 97
percent of rivals over the past five years. The team that runs
the fund won  Morningstar Inc. (MORN) ’s award for best domestic stock-
 fund manager  in 2011.  “I think their overall  investment performance  will help
them,”  Geoff Bobroff , a fund consultant in  East Greenwich ,
Rhode Island, said in a phone interview. “As a public company
they’ll be faced with a lot of things, but investors and
intermediaries like Artisan’s products, and that’s a good sign
for them.”  Artisan’s Earnings  Net income fell 75 percent in 2012 to $33.8 million as
expenses related to compensation climbed, according to
regulatory filings. Revenue, most of which it earns from fees
for managing client money, rose in each of the previous three
years. Assets surged 30 percent in 2012 to $74 billion.  The company will use $90 million of the sale’s proceeds to
repay debt, $67.1 million to buy shares from early investors and
$61.3 million to pay a distribution to pre-IPO partners, Artisan
said in regulatory  filings  with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission. Artisan said it distributed $56.8 million to
portfolio managers and $40 million to partners before today’s
sale.  U.S. IPOs so far this year have raised at least $10
billion, compared with $3 billion during the same period last
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Pfizer Inc.’s
animal-health company Zoetis Inc. raised $2.24 billion in its
January offering, pricing shares above the proposed range, and
has gained more than 30 percent since.  Norwegian Cruise Line
Holding Ltd. (NCLH) , which raised $447 million earlier that month after
pricing above the range, has surged 58 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in  New York  at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  