-- AT&T Joins Telstra in Selling Euro Bonds in Telecom Debt Surge
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   J o a n   L e e
-- 2013-03-06T13:55:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/at-t-joins-telstra-in-selling-euro-bonds-in-telecom-debt-surge.html
AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Telstra Corp. (TLS)  are the
first telecommunications companies outside  Europe  to sell debt
in the region’s common currency this year.  AT&T, the biggest U.S. carrier, is selling benchmark notes
due 2023 in its first sale in euros since December. Telstra,
 Australia ’s biggest phone company, is marketing 1 billion euros
($1.3 billion) of 10-year notes in its first transaction in the
currency in a year, people familiar with the deals said.  Global phone carriers are flocking to European debt markets
to raise money cheaply, as yields drop to near December’s record
low of 1.7 percent, Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Euro
Industrials Index shows. Telecommunications firms have sold 800
million euros of notes this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “Today’s issuance from Telstra and AT&T is all about
diversification of funding sources,” said Sam Morton, an
analyst at Mizuho International Plc in  London . “It is natural
for Telstra to seek finance overseas as the depth of its local
market isn’t sufficient to handle all of its refinancing
requirements. AT&T is an extremely large issuer in domestic
benchmarks so it makes sense for it to raise money overseas.”  Telecom Sales  AT&T, which carries  ratings  of A3 by Moody’s and an
equivalent A- by Standard & Poor’s, is marketing bonds due 2023
to yield 85 to 90 basis points above the swap rate, according to
a person familiar with the sale. AT&T is also planning a 250
million-euro increase to its 3.55 percent bond due 2032, the
person said. The company last issued euro-denominated bonds on
Dec. 11, when it sold 1 billion euros of the 3.55 percent notes.  Telstra’s 1 billion euros of notes due Sept. 2023 may yield
80 basis points above mid-swaps, the lower end of its guidance,
according to a person familiar with the matter. The securities
are expected to be rated A2 by Moody’s and an equivalent A by
 Standard & Poor’s  and Fitch Ratings. Telstra last sold euro-
denominated bonds in March 2012, when it issued 1 billion euros
of 3.5 percent notes due 2022, Bloomberg data show.  “The proceeds will be used for general corporate purposes
which include a range of different business needs,” Scott Whiffin, a spokesman for Melbourne, Australia-based Telstra,
said in an e-mail.  Company officials at Dallas-based AT&T declined to comment
on the deal.  “The supportive thing for both credits is that their
strong ratings offer shelter for European telecoms investors
that are currently seeing plenty of downgrades,” said Morton.
“The Italian political uncertainty is only really overhanging
Italian issuers and contagion so far has been limited.”  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) ’s  credit rating  was cut to Baa3, the
lowest investment grade, by Moody’s Investor’s Service last
month, as  Italy ’s biggest phone company reported declining
profitability at home.  KPN Hybrid  Dutch phone company  Koninklijke KPN NV (KPN)  is also tapping debt
markets this week with a euro-denominated hybrid bond as it
seeks to borrow 2 billion euros in different currencies, a
person familiar with the matter said. KPN may sell debt in
pounds later this week and the dollar portion later, according
to the person. ING Groep NV strategist Jeroen van den Broek said
the euro notes may yield about 6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Joan Lee in London at 
 jlee176@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  