-- Augusta Gives LPGA Head Hope It May Host a Women’s Golf Event
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-03-07T05:00:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/augusta-adding-female-members-has-lpga-head-saying-he-has-hope.html
LPGA Tour Commissioner Mike Whan has
hope that Augusta National Golf Club may one day open its gates
to an event for the sport’s top women’s tour after the Masters
Tournament host added female members last year.  Whan, who took over as LPGA commissioner in 2010, said he
contacts the club in Augusta,  Georgia , every year about hosting
a women’s tournament in addition to the Masters, the first of
golf’s four annual major championships for men. This year’s
Masters is scheduled for April 11-14.  Whan, 48, said he’s not discouraged about being rebuffed by
Augusta National officials and said he understands why “it’s
not the right time and may never be the right time.” Augusta
National spokesman Steve Ethun didn’t return an e-mail message
seeking comment.  “I don’t know anybody who loves the game who wouldn’t view
Augusta National as maybe the best golf platform in the world,”
Whan said yesterday in an interview. “Would I like to see the
best female golfers in the world on that stage? Of course.”  Whan has helped the LPGA Tour add five tournaments since
taking over, while prize purses have climbed $8.5 million this
year. The tour also has increased television coverage by 50
percent, with almost 93 percent of that aired live, up from 40
percent in 2010.  The LPGA Tour begins its U.S. season this week in Phoenix
with the RR Donnelley LPGA Founders Cup after opening the year
with tournaments in  Australia ,  Thailand  and  Singapore .  ‘Great Time’  “It’s a great time for us,” Whan said in New York. “I
always say to the players, ‘This early part of the season is
when stars are made.’ People who do well in April, May tend to
be talked about all the way through the summer. It’s a break-out
opportunity.”  Whan acknowledged he doesn’t know if he’d like the idea of
a women’s event if he were a board member at Augusta National,
which was founded in 1933 by golf champion Bobby Jones and Wall
Street financier Clifford Roberts.  “They think about making sure that Augusta National and
that brand -- that piece of property -- is as good as can be
whenever they open the doors and the cameras of the world to
it,” Whan said. “They question I think to some extent whether
they could do two and still have the one the way the one is.”  He’s not about to stop his pursuit.  “I just figure I’ll just keep asking because if they ever
change their mind, I’ll be somewhere near the top of the list of
people who have asked the longest,” Whan said.  Augusta National admitted former U.S. Secretary of State
Condoleezza Rice and Rainwater Inc. financier Darla Moore in
August as its first female members following almost a decade of
scrutiny over its all-male membership.  Female Play  Augusta National for decades has allowed women to play the
course, which doesn’t have a formal set of women’s tees, and
Whan said many LPGA players have teed it up at the home of the
Masters. He also said the club has given a “six-figure” check
to the LPGA every year “as long as he can remember” to support
its Girls Golf program. Run jointly by the LPGA and U.S. Golf
Association, Girls Golf gives 20,000 girls in the U.S. each year
the chance to play the sport for the first time.  Whan said his next step in promoting the growth of the tour
is continuing to increase exposure. The tour is now watched by
viewers in 160 countries, up from 60 nations five or six years
ago, and Whan said his goal is 225.  Perhaps no tournament would boost that exposure more than
one held at Augusta National.  “The world would watch,” Whan said. “Just like the
female members, it would send a pretty cool message about the
freedom of women to play sort of anywhere. And I know our
players would love to test themselves. It would be a cool
measuring stick because that’s one of the few courses in the
world that all of us think we know.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  