-- Auschwitz Boy Reveals Mengele Nightmares After 70 Years
-- B y   G e o r g e   W a l d e n
-- 2013-03-06T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/auschwitz-boy-reveals-mengele-nightmares-after-70-years.html
Here is a new genre in Holocaust
memoirs: Otto Dov Kulka, a distinguished Jewish professor
specializing in Nazi history, waited till his sixties before
recording his own stay in Auschwitz as a boy.  In “Landscapes of the Metropolis of Death,” the book these
recordings have become, Kulka insists that this is not
autobiography, rather “fragments of memory and imagination”
retrieved from the mind of a 10-year-old child.  The effect is powerful and haunting. The scene is the
cosily-named “family camp” the Nazis established at Auschwitz-
Birkenau from 1943-44, where Kulka was sent with his parents
from the Theresienstadt concentration camp, or ghetto.  “Family camp” is of course a euphemism for mass
extermination. Miraculously, when nearly everyone has been
gassed or marched away as the front line approaches and the
crematoria are destroyed, he survives.  “Probing memory,” as Kulka calls his account, gives his
book a misty quality, though there are concrete incidents. He
was pulled free from an electric fence. He was a patient in the
camp hospital, run by Josef Mengele.  He saw punishments and executions, organized with due
order, and it is episodes like these that inspired Kafkaesque
feelings in his young self: that these were the rules of the
game, “a perplexing order that was somehow justified.”  A quasi-poetic detachment deepens feeling, as when Kulka
speaks of what he has seen as “the immutable law of the Great
Death,” something that “transcends the sphere of history.”  Crematoria Culture  Instead the camp becomes a metaphor for the central tragedy
of life.  A few hundred yards from the crematoria, culture goes on.  The Jews sing in choirs, stage concerts and plays, the
young are taught about the Greek and Persian wars, and Kulka
plays tunes from Beethoven’s “Ode to Joy” on his harmonica.  In the mornings the inmates skirt piles of corpses stacked
behind the barracks, so that the boy encounters music, history
and death together. In such places the book reads like a
poisoned dream. The inmates know what awaits them.  Irony and black jokes abound, whether about escaping
through the smokestacks of the crematorium, or in mock-
discussions about “the solution to the German question.”  Kulka’s mother perished and his father survived.
Afterwards, in visits to  Israel  together, the father persists in
asking “Where was God?”, only to be told by a Rabbi: “That
question is one that it is forbidden to ask.”  Kulka’s Kafka  Later an answer comes in one of Kulka’s many dreams. In it
he sees that God was there in the camp all along, grieving.  God appeared “as a kind of mysterious emanation of pain”
and later as an earthly figure: “He was alive, shrunken, hunched
forward with searing pain, as in the twisted posture of Auguste Rodin’s sculpture “The Thinker.” A figure on the scale of his
creatures, in the form of a human being who came and was there…”  For Kulka the dreams keep coming. In one, Mengele turns up
as a tour guide at Auschwitz, something everyone accepts as
natural. Though continuing with his academic work on the Nazi
period, he finds it hard to see plays or films (he has never
seen “ Shoah ”) for fear of feeling that “it was not like that.”  Three poems survived the flames of the family camp at
Auschwitz, and are reproduced here. One of them is “We, The
Dead, Accuse!” whose last verse reads: “And then we’ll emerge,
in awful ranks, A skull on our skulls and bony shanks; and we’ll
roar in the faces of all the people We, the dead, accuse!”  Memory Mist  Only in a coda does the mist of memory dissipate and the
sinister truth emerge about Kulka’s camp. To placate
international concerns, in mid-1944 Adolf Eichmann allowed Red
Cross representatives to visit the Theresienstadt ghetto.  Remarkably they were satisfied, and informed that there
would be no further transfers East. Thus reassured they asked no
questions about the welfare of those already sent to Auschwitz-
Birkenau, and dropped a request to visit the “family camp.”  Meanwhile the inmates were being instructed to write
postcards to friends and relatives abroad. Three weeks later
almost everyone there was gassed, and the camp destroyed.  “Landscapes of the Metropolis of Death” is published by
Harvard University Press/ Belknap Press in the  U.S.  (144 pages,
$23.95) and  Allen Lane  in the  U.K.  (9.99 pounds.) To buy the
book in  North America , click  here .  ( George Walden  is a former U.K. diplomat and Conservative
minister. He is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jorg von Uthmann  on Paris arts and
 Amanda Gordon’s  Scene Last Night.  To contact the writer of this review:
George Walden in London at  gwashch@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 