-- Aussie Rebounds as Trade Deficit Fails to Raise Rate Cut Bets
-- B y   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2013-03-07T05:50:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/australian-dollar-falls-versus-major-peers-ahead-of-trade-data.html
Australia ’s dollar rebounded from
its biggest decline in a week on speculation that a wider-than-
expected trade deficit reported today won’t be enough to prompt
the  Reserve Bank  to cut  interest rates .  The so-called Aussie rose against most major peers as
traders stuck with bets that policy makers will keep the
benchmark interest rate unchanged at a meeting next month. New
Zealand’s currency, known as the kiwi, slid for a second day
versus the greenback after gauges of Asian stocks and raw
materials declined.  “The RBA has taken the view that the easing they’ve done
so far has yet to work its way into the economy,” said  Gareth Berry , a currency strategist at UBS AG in Singapore. “If they
do cut at all this year, it’s not going to be immediate. Some
bearishness on the Aussie is justified, but overbearishness is
not.”  The Australian dollar added 0.2 percent to $1.0248 as of
4:45 p.m. in Sydney from yesterday when it dropped 0.2 percent,
the most since Feb. 26. It was little changed at 96.25 yen.  The  New Zealand dollar  dipped 0.1 percent to 82.80 U.S.
cents from 82.84. It weakened 0.2 percent to 77.76 yen.  Interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show traders
see a 77 percent chance the  Reserve Bank of Australia  will keep
the overnight cash rate target at 3 percent when policy makers
next meet on April 2. UBS predicts no interest rate cuts for the
rest of this year.  Trade Deficit  Australia’s dollar initially slid after data from the
statistics bureau showed the nation’s trade deficit widened to
A$1.06 billion ($1.08 billion) in January from a revised A$688
million the month before that was larger than originally
reported. Economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  predicted a
A$500 million deficit.  The RBA refrained from cutting the highest benchmark
interest rate among major developed nations for a second-
straight meeting on March 5, after Governor  Glenn Stevens  and
his board implemented 1.75 percentage points in borrowing-cost
reductions in the 14 months through December.  There are signs the “significant easing in monetary
policy” last year is having an impact, Stevens said in a
statement.  “We think the broad economic picture in Australia,
although not necessarily super strong, is still not enough for
the RBA to ease any further this year,” said Bill Diviney,
Tokyo-based currency strategist at Barclays Plc.  The New Zealand dollar declined as the MSCI Asia Pacific
Index of shares fell 0.4 percent. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI
Index of 24 raw materials was little changed following a 0.7
percent drop yesterday.  Australia’s 10-year government bond yield rose four basis
points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 3.44 percent.  New Zealand ’s
two-year swap rate, a fixed payment made to receive floating
rates which is sensitive to interest-rate expectations, dropped
1 1/2 basis points to 2.98 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net ;
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  