-- Axel Springer Predicts Earnings Decline on Digital Spending
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2013-03-06T08:15:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/axel-springer-sees-profit-decline-on-spending-for-digital-shift.html
Axel Springer  AG,  Europe ’s largest
newspaper publisher, forecast lower profit this year because of
spending to accelerate its shift to digital publications amid a
declining print business.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization will probably fall by a “single-digit percentage”
this year, Berlin-based Axel Springer said today. Analysts
project an increase of 4.1 percent to 654 million euros ($854
million), data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Axel Springer, the publisher of Germany’s largest tabloid
Bild, last year added online classifieds pages in countries
including  Poland  and  Belgium . Sales from digital assets rose 22
percent to 1.17 billion euros in 2012, for the first time
overtaking those of the German newspapers.  “The traditional segments serve as considerable cash
generating units and the digital segments are driving growth and
profitability,” Harald Heider, an analyst at DZ Bank AG, wrote
in a note.  Springer  shares  fell as much as 6.7 percent, the biggest
intraday drop since April. The stock was down 6.4 percent at
33.96 euros at 9:14 a.m. in  Frankfurt , valuing the company at
3.4 billion euros. The stock was little changed in the past 12
months through yesterday, compared with a 21 percent gain for
 Lagardere SCA (MMB)  and  Informa Plc (INF) ’s 18 percent increase.  Digital Plans  Jointly with Zurich-based Ringier AG, Springer last year
bought Poland’s largest Web portal Onet.pl, and its joint
venture with General Atlantic LLC acquired an 80 percent stake
in Belgian real-estate portal Immoweb. The German company also
owns publications including Germany’s Die Welt, websites like
Aufeminin.com and advertising network Zanox.  Springer last year sent some of its top executives,
including Bild’s editor-in-chief, to Silicon Valley to establish
contacts there and look for investments. Last month, it set up a
50-50 partnership with Plug and Play Tech Center to foster
startups in  Germany  and Europe.  Higher investments and acquisitions will help boost full-
year revenue by a “low single-digit” percentage, the company
said.  The company today proposed a dividend of 1.70 euros for
2012, at the same level as a year earlier and below the  1.80
euros estimate  compiled by Bloomberg.  “The year 2012 marked an important turning point for Axel
Springer,” Chief Executive Officer Mathias Doepfner said in the
statement. “We intend to accelerate the digital transformation
of the entire group, in order to further bolster our position of
digitization pioneers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  