-- Baht Rises as U.S. Stock Surge Boosts Risk-Taking; Bonds Decline
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2013-03-06T02:13:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/baht-rises-as-u-s-stock-surge-boosts-risk-taking-bonds-decline.html
Thailand ’s baht rose for a second
day as gains in U.S. equities and economic indictors boosted
risk sentiment and brightened the outlook for Asian exports.  The  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  surged to a record
yesterday and a report showed  service industries  in the U.S.
expanded in February at the fastest pace in a year as a recovery
in housing rippled through the economy. Confidence among
American households rose in February, a  consumer sentiment 
survey showed March 1. The U.S. is Thailand’s second-largest
export market along with Japan, purchasing 9.9 percent of the
total shipments in January, official data show.  “Continued gains in U.S. stocks encourage investors to
take risks and put more funds into the  emerging markets ,” said
 Yuji Kameoka , chief currency strategist at Daiwa Securities Co.
in Tokyo. “We have seen strong U.S. data recently, which is
also good for Asian exports.”  The baht rose 0.2 percent to 29.76 per dollar as of 9:11
a.m. in Bangkok, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. One-
month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves in the
 exchange rate  used to price options, declined one basis point,
or 0.01 percentage point, to 5.11 percent.  Ample supply of liquidity and the global economic recovery
will boost inflows into Asia and increase pressure on the baht
to appreciate, Chalitrat Chandrubeksa, a deputy government
spokesman said yesterday, citing a report from the state-
planning agency, the National Economic and Social Development
Board.  The Institute for Supply Management’s non-manufacturing
index, which covers about 90 percent of the  U.S. economy ,
increased to 56 last month from 55.2 in January, compared with
the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of a reading of 55.
The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final index of
consumer sentiment climbed to 77.6 from 73.8 in January.  The yield on Thailand’s 3.625 percent government notes due
June 2023 rose one basis point to 3.64 percent, the highest
level since Feb. 15, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  