-- Bank of Canada Keeps Its Benchmark Interest Rate at 1% (Text)
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-03-06T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/bank-of-canada-keeps-its-benchmark-interest-rate-at-1-text-.html
Following is the text accompanying
the  Bank of Canada ’s decision to leave its benchmark overnight
rate target at 1 percent. The statement was released today in
Ottawa.  The Bank of  Canada  today announced that it is maintaining
its target for the overnight rate at 1 per cent. The  Bank Rate  is
correspondingly 1 1/4 per cent and the deposit rate is 3/4 per
cent.  The global economic outlook is broadly consistent with the
Bank’s projection in its January Monetary Policy Report (MPR).
Global financial conditions remain stimulative, despite recent
volatility. In the  United States , the economic expansion is
continuing at a gradual pace and private sector demand is gaining
momentum. Fiscal drag in the United States over the next two
years remains consistent with the Bank’s January projection,
although it is likely to be more front-loaded as a result of
sequestration cuts.  The recession in  Europe  continues. Growth in
 China  has improved, while economic activity in some other major
emerging economies is expected to benefit from policy stimulus.
Commodity prices have remained at historically elevated levels,
although persistent transportation bottlenecks are leading to
continued discounts for Canadian heavy  crude oil .  Canada’s economy grew by 0.6 per cent at annual rates in the
fourth quarter of 2012, with solid growth across most domestic
components of GDP offset by a sharp reduction in the pace of
inventory investment. The Bank expects growth in Canada to pick
up through 2013, supported by modest growth in household spending
combined with a recovery in exports and solid business
investment. With a more constructive evolution of imbalances in
the household sector, residential investment is expected to
decline further from historically high levels. The Bank expects
trend growth in household credit to moderate further, with the
debt-to-income ratio stabilizing near current levels. Despite the
expected recovery in exports, they are likely to remain below
their pre-recession peak until the second half of 2014 owing to
restrained foreign demand and ongoing competitiveness challenges,
including the persistent strength of the Canadian dollar.  Total CPI inflation has been somewhat more subdued than
projected in the January MPR as a result of weaker  core inflation 
and lower mortgage interest costs, which were only partially
offset by higher gasoline prices. Low core inflation reflects
muted price pressures across a wide range of goods and services,
consistent with material excess capacity in the economy. Core and
total CPI inflation are expected to remain low in the near term
before rising gradually to reach 2 per cent over the projection
horizon as the economy returns to full capacity and inflation
expectations remain well-anchored.  Reflecting all of these factors, the Bank has decided to
maintain the target for the overnight rate at 1 per cent.  With
continued slack in the Canadian economy, the muted outlook for
inflation, and the more constructive evolution of imbalances in
the household sector, the considerable monetary policy stimulus
currently in place will likely remain appropriate for a period of
time, after which some modest withdrawal will likely be required,
consistent with achieving the 2 per cent inflation target.
Information note: The next scheduled date for announcing the
overnight rate target is 17 April 2013. The next full update of
the Bank’s outlook for the economy and inflation, including risks
to the projection, will be published in the MPR at the same time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  