-- Bank of Canada Says Rate Appropriate for a Period of Time
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-03-06T21:35:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/bank-of-canada-says-1-rate-appropriate-for-a-period-of-time-.html
Bank of Canada  Governor  Mark Carney 
said his policy  interest rate  is likely to be unchanged for some
time after inflation slowed more than projected, while
reiterating his eventual next move will probably be an increase.  Policy makers kept the  benchmark rate  on overnight loans
between commercial banks at 1 percent and softened language
about tighter policy for the second meeting in a row, saying
inflation will “remain low in the near term” in an economy
with “material excess capacity.”  “The considerable monetary policy stimulus currently in
place will likely remain appropriate for a period of time, after
which some modest withdrawal will likely be required,” policy
makers led by Carney, 47, said in a statement from Ottawa today.  The world’s 11th largest economy has reported slower growth
and inflation as well as job losses since Carney’s last
announcement in January, when he said a rate increase was “less
imminent.” Carney has signaled since April that the bank’s next
move would probably be to tighten policy as his peers in the
U.S. and Europe have added new stimulus.  “They have extended the pause but rates aren’t going
lower,” said  Derek Holt , vice-president of economics at  Bank of
Nova Scotia (BNS)  in Toronto, who predicts no increase this year or
next. “They are using the more dovish turn to justify a longer
pause as opposed to throwing a bone to the rate cut camp.”  Dollar Weakens  The Canadian dollar fell 0.5 percent to C$1.0317 per  U.S.
dollar  at 4:29 p.m. in Toronto. One Canadian dollar buys 96.93
U.S. cents. Yields on benchmark two-year Canada government  bonds 
fell as far as 0.932 percent from 0.955 percent yesterday, and
the Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index rose 0.8 percent to
12,831.96.  Companies from truckers to pizza makers are reporting signs
that domestic spending is slowing, while inconsistent global
demand and strong Canadian dollar have generated nine straight
trade  deficits .  There are “a lot of clouds in the energy sector” Alain Bedard, Chief Executive Officer of Montreal-based trucking
company  TransForce Inc. (TFI) , said March 1.  “During the fourth quarter, consumers continued to be
cautious spenders,” Paul Goddard, Chief Executive Officer of
 Pizza Pizza Royalty Corp. (PZA) , said on a Feb. 15 earnings call.  Statistics Canada  said March 1 that output expanded at a
0.6 percent annualized pace in the fourth quarter, slower than
Carney’s 1 percent January forecast. The 0.5 percent  inflation
rate  seen in January remains well below his 2 percent target,
while employment fell for the first time in six months.  Growth Expected  The Bank of Canada didn’t update its January forecast that
the economy will grow 2 percent this year, and today said it
expects growth “to pick up through 2013” led by household
spending, exports and investment.  “They partially acknowledged the softness in growth,”
said  Doug Porter , chief economist with BMO Capital Markets in
Toronto, who predicts 1.5 percent expansion this year and an
unchanged policy interest rate until the second half of 2014.
“They couldn’t trot out the ‘less imminent’ again.”  Inflation will rise “gradually to reach 2 percent over the
projection horizon as the economy returns to full capacity and
inflation expectations remain well-anchored,” the Bank said in
its statement.  “What has happened here is that they are facing the
realities of low inflation and until that starts to move more
towards the middle of the range they have no choice,” said  John Clinkard , chief Canada economist at Deutsche Bank AG in Toronto.  Policy Statements  Carney’s decision to keep the benchmark interest rate
unchanged was expected by all 22 economists in a Bloomberg News
 survey , and comes one day before policy statements by the
 European Central Bank , the  Bank of Japan (8301)  and the  Bank of
England .  Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  is meeting with private
economists Friday in Ottawa ahead of a fiscal plan expected in
the next few weeks. Flaherty said last week slower growth will
make it harder to reach a goal of eliminating a deficit before
the next federal election, due in 2015.  Today’s rate announcement is the third-last before Carney
leaves Canada’s central bank June 1 to lead the Bank of England
a month later. He will keep his other title as Chairman of the
Financial Stability Board, the Basel, Switzerland-based body
charged by the Group of 20 nations with developing rules to
prevent another financial crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  