-- BASF May Sell Paper Chemicals If Margins Don’t Rise, DZBank Says
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-03-06T13:02:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/basf-may-sell-paper-chemicals-if-margins-don-t-rise-dzbank-says.html
BASF SE (BAS) , the world’s biggest
chemical maker, may sell its paper-chemicals business if
profitability doesn’t improve over the next year to 18 months,
according to Peter Spengler, an analyst at DZ Bank AG.  The business could fetch 900 million euros ($1.17 billion)
based on estimated earnings before interest, tax, depreciation
and amortization of 200 million euros this year, Spengler said.
The paper chemicals business is exposed to “high” margin
pressure because of new factories in  China  and may be sold
within two years, the analyst said.  The paper-chemicals business was largely acquired in 2009
with the purchase of Switzerland’s Ciba Holding for $4.9
billion. Since then BASF has “dramatically” reduced capacity
by closing factories in  Europe  and the U.S., Chief Executive
Officer Kurt Bock said last week. The CEO is shifting the
business away from paper to packaging materials, where he sees
better growth opportunities.  “It’s more of a structural problem than a cyclical one,”
DZ Bank’s Spengler said today by telephone. “I don’t see an end
to it. The businesses are always under scrutiny.” Spengler
recommends buying BASF shares.  A weak euro helped BASF increase sales at the paper
chemicals division 1 percent to 1.63 billion last year. A 4
percent gain from currency effects more than compensated for a 2
percent drop in volumes and a 1 percent decline in prices at the
unit, BASF said.  “I would forsee further consolidation of capacities in the
paper chemical industry, which will bring the business to an
acceptable level of profitability,” Bock said on Feb. 26 on a
conference call with analysts. “Will it, at any time in the
future be a star performer of BASF’s portfolio? That’s not very
likely.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  