-- Beats Gets $60 Million Investment to Build Daisy Service
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-03-06T06:08:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/beats-electronics-gets-funding-to-spin-out-daisy-music-service.html
Beats Electronics LLC, maker of the
popular headphones, received a $60 million investment led by
billionaire Len Blavatnik and will use the money to invest in
its planned Daisy music streaming service.  Beats, founded by music producer  Jimmy Iovine  and rapper
Dr. Dre, said in a statement yesterday it will start Daisy in
late 2013 and spin the service out as an independent company.
Blavatnik’s Access Industries will be joined in the investment
by  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO) ’s Marc Rowan, casino magnate
 James Packer  and affiliates of Lee M. Bass.  Beats, based in Santa Monica, California, is developing a
subscription music-streaming challenger to Spotify Ltd.,
Rhapsody International Inc. and Rdio Inc. Beats bought the MOG
music service last year and hired Topspin Media Inc. founder Ian Rogers and recording artist Trent Reznor to design the
tentatively renamed Daisy.  “Beats has the vision, the brand, the management team and
now the investor group to effectively change the expectations
and experiences of a music subscription service,” Blavatnik
said in the statement.  Access Industries owns Warner Music Group, the New York-
based record company with labels including Atlantic Records
Group. Last year Access invested $130 million in Deezer, a
Paris-based music streaming service.  The already crowded streaming field is about to gain two
new entrants.  Google Inc. (GOOG) , developer of the Android mobile-phone
platform, plans to start its own music-streaming service, people
with knowledge of the situation said last month.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , maker of the iPhone and operator of the iTunes
store, is also planning a music service that would challenge
both Spotify in streaming and  Pandora Media Inc. (P)  in Web-based
radio, people with knowledge of the situation said in September.  Apple has discussed a potential partnership with Beats,
Reuters reported, citing people with knowledge of the matter.  Spotify lists 5 million paying subscribers and 20 million
users of its ad-supported service in 17 countries.  Moelis & Co., a New York-based investment bank, acted as
financial advisor and placement agent, Beats said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  