-- Belarus Declares Three Days of Mourning for ‘Best Friend’ Chavez
-- B y   A l i a k s a n d r   K u d r y t s k i
-- 2013-03-06T14:42:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/belarus-declares-three-days-of-mourning-for-best-friend-chavez.html
 Belarus declared three days of
official mourning to mark the death of Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez , starting today, and ordered flags to fly at half-staff.  “We have lost a close person and best friend who loved
Belarus and always offered us a helping hand,” President
 Aleksandr Lukashenko  said in a statement e-mailed by his press
office today. Television and radio stations will cancel
entertainment programs and commercials.  Chavez, who died yesterday at the age of 58, built an
alliance with the former Soviet republic, whose ruler was dubbed
Europe’s “last dictator” by the administration of former U.S.
President George W. Bush. The Venezuelan leader  visited  the
eastern European exporter of potash fertilizer and tractors five
times during his 14-year rule, making his last trip in 2010.  Belarus used oil imports from  Venezuela  as an alternative
to Russian supplies as it bargained to secure cheaper crude
prices from its eastern neighbor. Belarus imported 330,000 tons
of oil from Venezuela last year before halting shipments in June
2012. The nation also participates in oil extraction projects in
Venezuela, according to the website of state oil company
Belorusneft.  Belarus built residential housing as well as assembly lines
to manufacture tractors and trucks in the Latin American
country. The Belarusian capital, Minsk, has recently featured
numerous billboards promoting “Work in Venezuela” for
construction specialists. Lukashenko last visited Venezuela in
2012.  Bolivian President  Evo Morales , who came to power with
Chavez’s support, declared seven days of official mourning and
Ecuador’s President  Rafael Correa  declared three days of
mourning for Chavez, who died after a struggle with cancer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aliaksandr Kudrytski in Minsk, Belarus at 
 akudrytski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  