-- Bersani Vows to End Italy Austerity in Reversal After Defeat
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-03-06T15:21:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/bersani-vows-to-end-italy-austerity-in-reversal-for-party-unity.html
Pier Luigi Bersani, whose leadership
is in question after he admitted defeat in  Italy ’s general
election last week, pledged to reverse the country’s budget
rigor as he renewed his pitch to form a government.  “The vicious link between austerity and recession puts
representative democracy at risk and renders it ungovernable,”
Bersani said in Rome today in an address to officials of his
 Democratic Party . “Out of the austerity cage,” he said, as he
outlined an eight-point plan for unity.  Bersani, 61, is reversing his prior backing for Prime
Minister  Mario Monti ’s budget policy to consolidate party
support and appeal to rivals like Beppe Grillo, who won a
blocking minority in parliament with an anti-austerity push.  The Democratic Party leader’s plan won backing from members
including Bari Mayor Michele Emiliano, while Naples City
Councilor Umberto Ranieri called on Italian President Giorgio Napolitano to step in and set the agenda.  “Bersani clearly admits that the center-left coalition’s
relative loss at last week’s elections is mainly due to the
country’s widespread sense of malaise,” Annalisa Piazza, a
fixed-income analyst at Newedge Group in  London , said in an e-
mail.  Grillo Stance  Bersani’s eight-point plan nudges his party’s platform
toward the positions of Grillo’s Five Star Movement. Grillo’s
push for a “citizenship stipend” for the unemployed is echoed
by the “salary or minimum compensation” proposed in Bersani’s
plan for those without work contracts. The Democratic Party
proposal also seeks to cut the number of parliamentarians in
half, recalling Grillo’s campaign against political waste. The
program is subject to a vote by Democratic officials today.  Bersani was penalized by voters for supporting Monti’s tax
increases and promising during the campaign to maintain fiscal
rigor. The ex-communist and former industry minister, who
partnered with three-time premier  Silvio Berlusconi  to back the
Monti government, squandered a lead in polls before the Feb. 24-
25 vote and failed to secure a majority in Italy’s Senate.  The change of strategy leaves Monti, who finished fourth in
the election, as the only top-tier Italian politician to insist
on the importance of the European Union’s budget rules. Monti,
who previously said he was open to talks with Bersani for a
parliamentary alliance, told reporters today that he would push
for a return to the polls if he can’t find common ground with
his rivals.  Monti Call  “If the alternative is a government that will interrupt
Italy’s European strategy or its plan for reforms, I believe
it’s better to hold new elections,” Monti said in  Rome .  Bersani asked his party for its renewed support, requesting
that it “guarantee, for the country, the defense and the value
of its unity,” even in the event of some “back-and-forth
discussion.”  The Democratic Party, whose coalition won the most seats in
the four-way parliamentary race, needs help from senators in
Grillo’s group to win a confidence vote in the upper house.
Bersani reiterated his refusal to renew his alliance with
Berlusconi and appealed to Grillo’s supporters for help.  “If this is our objective, I might be wrong but I think
there’s no chance of getting there, and every effort would be in
vain,” Ranieri of Naples said today at the assembly, which was
shown on the party’s website. “Once again we need the president
to intervene.”  Napolitano Role  Napolitano, the head of state, orchestrated the plan that
brought Monti to power in November 2011 and gave the premier a
mandate to raise taxes and shield Italy from the worst of
 Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis. That strategy, while successful
in lowering Italy’s borrowing costs and calming financial
markets, pushed the country deeper into a recession that
extended into a sixth quarter in the three months ended Dec. 31.  Bersani’s former rival within the party, Florence Mayor
Matteo Renzi, didn’t speak at the assembly and left while the
meeting was under way. Renzi, whose campaign for Italy’s
premiership ended in December when he lost a primary ballot,
said in an interview televised late yesterday on RAI3 that it
was up to Bersani to decide the Democratic Party’s next move.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  