-- Bersani Says Recession Emergency as He Bids for Premiership
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-03-06T10:53:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/bersani-seeks-support-of-allies-to-form-new-italian-government.html
Democratic Party leader Pier Luigi Bersani called on Beppe Grillo’s anti-establishment Five Star
Movement and Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s coalition to back his
efforts to form a government based on a program of easing
austerity in recession-wracked  Italy .  The nation’s priority is getting “out of the austerity
cage,” Bersani, whose bloc won the most votes in inconclusive
election last month, told about 100 members of the party’s top
body in Rome today. Italy’s next government should be an
“active protagonist of a rectification of the European policies
for stability,” he said.  Italy’s budget deficit narrowed last year as Monti’s mix of
tax increases and spending cuts deepened the country’s fourth
recession since 2001 amid unemployment topping 11 percent. Feb.
24-25 election produced a hung parliament, with Bersani’s forces
controlling the Chamber of Deputies and his main rivals, ex-
premier  Silvio Berlusconi ’s coalition and Grillo, holding
blocking minorities in the Senate.  Italy’s 10-year bond yield fell 8 basis points at 11:30
a.m. in Rome to 4.652 percent. That is still 21 basis points
higher than before the elections.  Debt Goals  “Debt and budget adjustment are medium-term goals, while
growth and employment are the immediate emergencies,” Bersani
added as he presented an eight-point program for his bid to
build a government after failing to win a majority in the
Italian senate.  Other points include  cutting the IMU property tax
introduced by Monti last year, measures to ease bureaucracy and
to promote a “green” economy. Bersani said his government
would pass legislation to reduce the cost of politics, measures
against organized crime, an anti-corruption law and stronger
conflict-of-interest rules.  Those points could appeal to lawmakers of Grillo’s Five
Star Movement, which tapped public anger over austerity and
corruption to capture more than 25 percent of the vote.  Grillo has said he won’t support a confidence vote to
install a government if it’s led by any of Italy’s politicians.
Still his lawmakers have signaled they may let a new government
be installed if it’s led by a non-politician in a so-called
technical government.  Sent Packing  Grillo “heads a movement that has a third of the Chamber,
he needs to decide what he will do or we will all be sent
packing, including Grillo,” Bersani said in a March 3 interview
with Rai3 television.  As Bersani’s party did win a majority in one house of
Parliament, President Giorgio Napolitano should give him the
first mandate to try to form a government. If Bersani fails,
Napolitano may reach out to a non-politician to try to lead
Italy, newspaper  Corriere della Sera  reported yesterday.  Bersani’s allies are divided over how to proceed. The
party’s economic policy spokesman Stefano Fassina, said on March
3 that the country may have to hold new elections “in a few
months” if Bersani doesn’t get a majority in parliament.  Florence Mayor Matteo Renzi, who lost a primary vote to
Bersani in December and then campaigned on his behalf in the
general election, said he would not challenge Bersani’s
leadership now. The coalition had won the election numerically,
though lost politically, he said last night in an interview on
state-owned Rai3 television.  ‘Very Difficult’  “This attempt by Bersani seems very, very difficult to me,
but he has the right to try,” Renzi said. “I hope he pulls it
off, but he needs the whole party behind him.”  Renzi had a two-hour meeting with Monti yesterday at the
premier’s office in  Rome . The encounter was an “institutional
one of a mayor with the prime minister,” he told reporters.
Renzi will attend the party meeting today.  Monti is also meeting today in Rome with members of his
Civic Choice party and will hold a press conference at 1:30 p.m.
His coalition won less than 10 percent in the election.  The political uncertainty is likely to continue for weeks.
Napolitano said yesterday that he would not move up the date for
the first meeting of the new parliament set for March 15. The
new lawmakers must first choose leaders for the Chamber and the
Senate before Napolitano can begin the consultations with the
parties on trying to form a government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ; 