-- Billionaire Sawiris Says Climate in Egypt Deters Investors
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2013-03-06T15:07:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/billionaire-sawiris-says-climate-in-egypt-deters-investors.html
Egyptian billionaire  Naguib Sawiris 
said a “police environment” in Egypt discourages investors,
and vowed to return to the North African country that he says he
left against his will.  “As long as you’re making the country live in this police
environment what investment are you talking about?” he said in
an interview with a private Egyptian channel that was posted
online yesterday. “How can you expect someone to come invest in
a country where he may be imprisoned?” The interviewer said
Sawiris was speaking from  London .  Since the overthrow of  Hosni Mubarak  in 2011, several
Egyptian businessmen have been investigated or tried for
corruption-related charges. A decline in investment as well as
tourism has left the economy  growing at the slowest pace  in two
decades.  Sawiris’s brother, Orascom Construction Industries Chief
Executive Officer  Nassef Sawiris , and his father, Onsi, were
banned this month by Egypt’s prosecutor general from traveling
and placed on an arrivals watch list. The two are accused of
owing 14 billion Egyptian pounds ($2.1 billion) in back taxes,
the state-run Middle East News Agency reported March 3. The
company has denied violating any laws.  Naguib Sawiris, who has criticized President Mohamed Mursi
and his Muslim Brotherhood, said he sold the ONTV television
channel after his family said political positions taken by the
broadcaster sparked the tax allegations against them.  Targeting Opponents  “I wanted to prove to them that I am not the cause,” he
said. “I sold the channel and the issue is still continuing
because there is targeting.” The tax demands “have no legal
base,” according to Sawiris.  Sawiris, a Christian media and telecommunications
billionaire, co-founded a secular political party after the 2011
uprising.  He accused the Islamists who have gained power of seeking
to impose their will and not wanting to cooperate with the
opposition. Similar accusations have fueled protests that have
increasingly boiled over into violent clashes, hampering efforts
to revive the economy.  Mursi’s supporters say frequent protests undermine
stabilization efforts.  “It’s clear that you have a project for the
Brotherhoodization of the state and for retribution from your
enemies,” he said. “As an opposition figure, I want to be able
to oppose and not be imprisoned for it. This is my right.”  Sawiris said he left  Egypt  because of “the will of my
enemies” and will return “when there’s a real democratic
situation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  