-- Bob Knight Goes Negative; Baseball Betting: Sports Books
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   S h r i b m a n
-- 2013-03-06T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/bob-knight-goes-negative-baseball-betting-sports-books.html
So what’s a  Stanford  MBA who spent
years as a  Wall Street  trader and had a seven-figure
compensation guarantee doing noodling around with sports
statistics?  Joe Peta was plowed down by a New York ambulance at the
corner of West Broadway and Park Place. The accident re-arranged
his body (12 screws and a huge plate in his leg) and upended his
career. Sitting in a wheelchair, weakened, discouraged -- and
soon fired -- he returned to his childhood passion and pastime.
He fell in love with baseball again.  His new book, “ Trading Bases ” (Dutton, $27.95), is a
pretty good read. It’s like “ Moneyball ” on steroids, produced
by a stock-trader-turned-stats-geek rather than “Moneyball’s”
stats-geeks-turned-baseball-traders.  “When trades with a positive expected value present
themselves on the trading floor, you jump in with both feet,”
he writes. “Betting on baseball futures (i.e. total season
wins) was no different.”  Speaking of betting -- Peta once worked for  Lehman
Brothers , for goodness’ sake -- don’t forget Peta’s great
insight:  “No matter what the endeavor, if you have an edge, a
competitive advantage or a carefully constructed model with a
positive expected return, you must avoid wiping yourself out
with a single bet. Never make a bet on one day that imperils
your ability to exist the next day.”  Economy Saver  Wall Street, take notice. Peta’s theory applied to the
economy rather than the diamond might have saved the country
from the economic disaster of 2008.  He  deploys statistics  like beanballs, emphasizing home-
field advantage, lineup changes and pitching, adapting the
formula as the season progresses. The reader learns things like
this: “A visiting team down by two runs during the top of the
eighth inning with runners on first and second and nobody out
has a 31 percent chance of winning the game.” Talk about news
you can use.  Bob Knight , the iconic basketball coach (3 NCAA
championships, 11 Big Ten crowns, ESPN big mouth), is muscling
his familiar frame onto the shelves of the nation’s airport
newsstands with “ The Power of Negative Thinking ” (New Harvest,
$25), a treatise on performance which takes the conveniently
iconoclastic view that negative thinking will bring positive
reviews.  No Carnegie  Knight’s marketers must be betting that turning Dale
Carnegie on his head will be an irresistible draw for the
seemingly endless line of people who believe lessons from the
sports arena are easily applied to life’s other arenas,
especially business.  The Knight ethos: Prepare for the worst. “Being alert to
the possible negatives in any situation,” the bishop of
Bloomington preaches, “is the very best way to bring about
positive results.”  Knight argues that harnessing the power of negativism is
consistent with one of the great principles of coaching, which
is to focus on fundamentals. “Fundamentals eliminate ways to
fail, ways to lose,” he writes. “The greatest fundamentalists
-- in coaching, in warfare, in theology, in business -- were and
always have been more concerned about losing than about
winning.”  Maybe it’s OK to play not to lose rather than to win.
Knight’s 902 college-basketball wins suggest he may be on to
something.  ‘Game Over’  Dave Zirin’s “ Game Over ” (New Press, $18.95) traces the
influence of athletes in the political arena, including such
figures as  Bill Russell  (outspoken over Boston racism) and
 Muhammad Ali  (against the  Vietnam War ). He details how a soccer
riot fueled the Arab Spring and how the  World Cup  and the
Olympics have become political events, or at least spawned
political protests.  Zirin’s view of politics sprawls across the culture. He
criticizes Penn State University for harboring a sexual abuser
in Jerry Sandusky but also takes on the NCAA for its draconian
punishment, which he calls “an extra-legal imposition into the
affairs of a publicly funded campus.”  He attacks sports-mad universities, arguing that they
“treat football like a prize pig to be protected at all
costs.” And he issues a bill of complaints against Big Sports
-- he employs the phrase “athletic-industrial complex” -- for
turning a blind eye to racism, sexism, homophobia and the
dangers of concussions.  “The NFL is the biggest game in town,” he says of the
concussions issue, “and it’s been a political story in itself
to watch the media and many former players fall over themselves
to ‘defend the shield.’”  Zirin’s book is an illuminating indictment -- and a
reminder that, to adapt a phrase from the feminist world,
performance is political.  (David M. Shribman is executive editor of the Pittsburgh
Post-Gazette. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Patrick Cole  on music and  Ryan
Sutton  on dining.  To contact the writer of this column:
David M. Shribman at  dshribman@post-gazette.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 