-- Boeing 787 Circuits Burned on ANA Planes Last Year, Union Says
-- B y   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a   a n d   C h r i s   C o o p e r
-- 2013-03-06T12:50:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/boeing-787-circuits-burned-on-ana-planes-last-year-union-says.html
All Nippon Airways Co. (9202) , the biggest
operator of  Boeing Co. (BA)  787s, repaired three damaged circuit
boards last year on Dreamliners, the aircraft that was grounded
worldwide this year after  lithium-ion batteries  caught fire.  Of three circuit boards that burned, one that was damaged
in April had to be replaced, Shozo Tsue, secretary general of
the  Japan Federation of Aviation Workers’ Unions , told reporters
in Tokyo today. ANA fixed three circuit boards last year safely
before flights, Megumi Tezuka, an ANA spokeswoman said by
telephone.  Tsue said he doesn’t know whether there is a link between
circuit-board damage and the battery fires and that he has sent
a letter to the nation’s transport minister asking that
“issues” uncovered in the 787 be reconsidered. Boeing’s
Dreamliners have yet to fly commercially after the January
grounding, the first time in 34 years an entire airplane model
has been pulled from service.  “The circuit board case on April 7 was serious and caused
damage to the surrounding area,” Tsue said.  Investigators have yet to say they’ve found the causes of a
lithium-ion battery fire on a Japan Airlines Co.-operated
Dreamliner in  Boston  in January and that for an emergency
landing of an ANA 787 later that month.  Boeing last month submitted a proposed permanent solution
for the battery problem to the U.S.  Federal Aviation
Administration  to get the plane back in service. The plan will
require extensive testing and approval before regulators end the
plane’s grounding, the U.S.’s top aviation official said.  “We can’t say if there was any connection between the
circuit boards and the battery, but there have been lots of
problems with the electrical system,” Kazuo Harigai, assistant
secretary of the Japanese aviation workers’ union, said at the
press conference today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net ;
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  