-- Bolshoi Star Dancer Confesses to Acid Attack on Director
-- B y   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o   a n d   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2013-03-06T15:01:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/bolshoi-star-dancer-confesses-in-acid-attack-on-director.html
Bolshoi ballet soloist  Pavel
Dmitrichenko  confessed to organizing the acid attack that
damaged the face and eyes of the Russian theater’s artistic
director, Sergei Filin.  Dmitrichenko admitted to masterminding the assault outside
the director’s apartment building on Jan. 17, Moscow police  said 
on their website today, adding in a separate  statement  that he
was motivated by “personal animosity.” Two other men confessed
to being the driver and the assailant and all three remain in
custody after being detained yesterday.  “I organized this attack, but not in the way it was
carried out,” Dmitrichenko said in a short video recording
aired on state television channel Rossiya 24.  Dmitrichenko, 29, has been with the theater founded in 1776
by Catherine the Great since 2002 and last starred as Ivan the
Terrible in Sergei Prokofiev’s work of the same name.
Investigators last month cited rivalries at the Bolshoi as
probable motives for the crime, particularly between supporters
of Filin, 42, and of  Nikolai Tsiskaridze , the principal dancer.  The dancer and his accomplices should face as much as 12
years in prison for inflicting severe bodily harm, Filin’s
lawyer, Tatyana Stukalova, was quoted as saying by the Interfax
news service.  Rossiya 24 television cited unidentified Bolshoi performers
as saying that Dmitrichenko and Filin had argued over  Anzhelina
Vorontsova , a 21-year-old soloist and student of Tsiskaridze.
Dmitrichenko was “romantically linked” to Vorontsova and was
angry that Filin denied her the lead of “ Swan Lake ,” the
state-run channel said today.  Car Shop  Dmitrichenko and his accomplices bought the acid in an
auto-body shop near Moscow, managed to learn Filin’s exact
schedule and used mobile-phone numbers registered to other
people to plot the crime, according to police.  In the weeks after the assault, Tsiskaridze, 39, accused
management of waging a Stalin-era witch hunt against him, while
repeatedly denying involvement in the attack.  “They are organizing meetings against me and forcing
people to sign letters against me,” Tsiskaridze told the
British Broadcasting Corp. in an interview posted on the  BBC ’s
website Feb. 8.  Days earlier, Bolshoi General Director Anatoly Iksanov told
billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov ’s Snob magazine that he believed
Tsiskaridze was behind the Internet release of gay pornographic
photos that led to the resignation of Filin’s predecessor,
Gennady Yanin, in 2011. Iksanov, 61, blamed the Georgian-born
dancer for fostering animosity within the theater by openly
seeking Filin’s job, though he didn’t accuse Tsiskaridze of
ordering the attack.  Hacked Phones  Tsiskaridze, in turn, accused Filin of seeking to turn
Vorontsova against him by offering her a part in “Swan Lake”
if she stopped taking lessons from him.  Filin has said his mobile phones were tampered with and his
e-mail and Facebook Inc. accounts hacked in the days before a
masked assailant threw acid at his face as he arrived home.  Filin is still being treated in  Germany  and plans to return
to work in the next few months, Katerina Novikova, a spokeswoman
for the Bolshoi Theater, said on Rossiya 24 yesterday.  Moscow’s Tagansky district court will hold a hearing in the
case tomorrow to determine whether to keep the suspects in
custody or grant them bail, Ksenia Lyapina, a court spokeswoman,
said by phone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  