-- Bombardier Lags 67% Behind Order Goal on Delayed CSeries
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2013-03-06T15:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/bombardier-lags-67-behind-order-goal-on-delayed-cseries.html
Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B) , already late on the
first flight of its CSeries jet, is running behind sales and
customer targets as the maker of planes and trains struggles to
restore investor confidence in the $3.5 billion program.  Four years after winning the first purchase, Bombardier has
sold only 180 planes and would need a 67 percent increase in its
order book to meet a goal of 300 by mid-2014 that the finance
chief reiterated yesterday. The company is as much as 57 percent
short of its target of 20 to 30 operators by the time the plane
enters service.  Investors are tracking Bombardier’s initial foray into the
single-aisle jetliner market because continued slow sales would
imperil its forecast for as much as $8 billion in annual CSeries
revenue later this decade. The planemaker plans to host a
briefing on the jet tomorrow, the first since saying Nov. 7 that
the maiden flight would be delayed six months, until June.  “They have a lot of work to do to build up their order
book,” said Brandon Snow, a fund manager with CI Investments
Inc.’s Cambridge Advisors unit in Toronto, who doesn’t own any
Bombardier shares. “The CSeries is a new format, it’s a new
plane and Bombardier is not a typical seller. There are a lot of
question marks all around the product.”  Challenges with the aircraft’s development have helped drag
Montreal-based Bombardier’s stock to a  41 percent discount  from
the benchmark Standard & Poor’s/Toronto Stock Exchange Composite
Index.  Larger Competitors  Aerospace sales , including regional and business jets as
well as turboprops, accounted for 51 percent of the company’s
$16.8 billion in revenue last year. The CSeries is Bombardier’s
biggest plane ever, and takes aim at the largest part of the
global airliner market -- one dominated by a  Boeing Co (BA) .-Airbus
SAS duopoly.  While the planemaker has  rallied  10 percent to C$3.96 since
the delay was announced, it still trades at discounts to its
larger rivals.  U.S. competitor Boeing commands a 68 percent premium, and
Airbus parent European Aeronautic Defence & Space Co. trades at
more than double Bombardier’s price-earnings ratio. The
company’s stock has a buy  rating  from at least 13 analysts,
compared with nine holds and two sells, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The CSeries is on schedule to make its first flight by the
end of June, Chief Financial Officer Pierre Alary said yesterday
at a JPMorgan Chase & Co. transportation conference in New York.  ‘On Schedule’  “We’re quite confident,” he said. “We are reviewing with
the suppliers on a regular basis. It is progressing, and we are
basically on schedule.”  Slated to enter service in mid-2014, the plane will compete
against the smallest variants of Boeing’s 737 and Airbus’s A320.
Both manufacturers are developing reworked versions of the
narrow-body planes, the 737 Max and the A320neo, which will be
powered by more fuel-efficient engines.  Bombardier says the CSeries will cost about 15 percent less
to operate and burn about 20 percent less fuel than existing
competitors. The plane will feature composite materials and the
new geared turbofan engine from  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s
Pratt & Whitney.  The CSeries is one of three new jets that Bombardier is
developing between now and 2017, a strategy that’s costing $2
billion in development spending for a second straight year,
Bombardier said in a February earnings call.  Profitability Hit  “Stockholders have a lot riding on the success of the
CSeries,” Snow said in a telephone interview. “If it’s not
successful, it’s a pretty big hit to cash flow and future
profitability. The CSeries really has to come around for them.”  Bombardier’s most recent sale was Feb. 20, when Russian
leasing company Ilyushin Finance Co. converted a letter of
intent into an order valued at about $2.56 billion at catalog
prices. Besides the 180 firm orders, Bombardier also has
commitments for at least 200 CSeries jetliners.  The company said last year it expects 6,900 aircraft
seating 100 to 149 people will be delivered globally between
2012 and 2031. It predicts the CSeries will capture about half
of deliveries in the segment.  So far, though, Bombardier is falling short of its targets
for customer breadth. As of yesterday, 13 customers -- only
eight of which Bombardier has identified -- have placed firm
orders for the jet.  Some of Bombardier’s struggles may be due to its
unwillingness to offer large discounts, said Richard Aboulafia,
an analyst at Teal Group, an aerospace research firm based in
Fairfax, Virginia.  Aggressive Competition  The smaller CS100 model, with 100 to 125 seats, sells for a
list price of $62 million, while the CS300, which will carry 120
to 145 people, sells for $71 million, though airlines typically
negotiate discounts.  “They have underestimated the resources required to break
into this market,” Aboulafia said in a telephone interview.
“If you want to enter somebody else’s turf, even with an
exciting new product, you need to be very aggressive on terms --
whether it’s walk-away rights, residual value guarantees,
discounts or financing.”  CSeries orders may accelerate once test flights begin, said
 Cameron Doerksen , who covers Bombardier for National Bank
Financial in Montreal.  “First flight is a key risk milestone and risk-mitigating
event, and we expect that the stock will react positively if the
target is met,” Doerksen said in a Feb. 21 note to customers.  Qatar Airways  Qatar Airways Ltd. is still considering the CSeries --
though the Doha-based carrier is “too busy” with the grounded
Boeing 787 and A320neo to order the Bombardier jets, Chief
Executive Officer Akbar Al Baker told journalists today in
Berlin.  Bombardier is in talks with a number of major airlines and
leasing companies globally on CSeries orders that may exceed 20
planes, Mike Arcamone, president of the company’s commercial
aerospace division, said in November.  In addition to Qatar, potential buyers include Air China
Ltd.,  All Nippon Airways Co. (9202) , Delta Air Lines Inc., EasyJet Plc,
Japan Airlines Co.,  JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU) , Southwest Airlines
Co. and Turkish Airlines, David Newman, an analyst at Cormark
Securities Inc. in Toronto, said in a Feb. 22 note to clients.  ‘Mainstream Aircraft’  Orders for the CSeries pale in comparison with those of new
jet programs by Airbus and Boeing in recent years. Boeing had
sold 840 of its $200 million 787 Dreamliners by the model’s
maiden flight in December 2009, while Airbus’s A350, which is
due for its maiden flight this summer, had 592 firm orders
through the end of January.  Reworked models being developed by Boeing and Airbus are
also proving more popular. Boeing has already sold 1,180 of its
737 Max planes, which are due to enter service in 2017, while
Airbus had 1,864  firm orders  for the A320neo, which is due for a
2015 debut.  “The Neo and the Max are mainstream type aircraft, whereas
the CSeries is not,” said Jacques Kavafian, an aerospace
analyst at Toll Cross Securities Inc. in Toronto. “It’s a niche
product. The addressable market is smaller.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in  Montreal  at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  