-- Bondholders Supplant East Europe IMF Aid as Yields Decline
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-03-06T22:19:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/bondholders-supplant-imf-bailing-out-east-europe-as-yields-slump.html
Bondholders are replacing the
 International Monetary Fund  in bailing out some of eastern
 Europe ’s most indebted nations.  Hungary ,  Romania ,  Serbia  and  Ukraine , taking advantage of
record low borrowing costs, sold $7.25 billion of notes last
month, snubbing fiscal requirements from the Washington-based
IMF for loans. At yields as high as 7.6 percent, the securities
lured investors seeking better returns than the average 4.67
percent for  emerging-market  dollar-denominated bonds.  The sales are helping the former communist nations raise
financing without accepting the budget discipline demanded by
IMF loans. From Bucharest to Belgrade, the debt is in demand as
zero percent interest rates and increased monetary easing in
developed nations push investors to search for higher yields in
riskier securities.  “We see a few countries with worsening economic policies
and the market is not punishing them,” Viktor Szabo, who helps
manage $11.8 billion at Aberdeen Asset Management in  London ,
said by e-mail Feb. 15. “In the current abundant liquidity
environment, the anchor role of the IMF and other international
financial institutions is less important as investors are
desperately looking for yields.”  Hungary’s dollar bonds have  returned  21 percent in the past
year, almost twice the 11 percent average for emerging-market
debt in JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Diversified Index.
The rally cut Hungarian  yields  by 219 basis points, or 2.19
percentage point, to 5.33 percent, while the EMBI average
dropped 72 basis points. Ten-year U.S. Treasury  yields  fell to
1.92 percent from 1.98 percent while the  S&P 500 Index  rose 15
percent in the past 12 months.  ‘Hugely Dangerous’  Investors are taking on risk by purchasing dollar bonds
from borrowers with policies that the IMF says aren’t
sustainable to close fiscal deficits.  While Ukraine complied with IMF appeals to increase the
pension age, President  Viktor Yanukovych  has ruled out raising
heating prices to cut the budget gap. The lack of “corrective
policies” leaves Ukraine “vulnerable to shocks,” the IMF said
in a Feb. 12 report. Hungary, with the highest  debt-to-gross
domestic product  ratio among the European Union’s eastern
nations, refused calls for spending cuts. Serbia sold debt as it
pursued IMF talks for more aid and Romania offered bonds while
facing demands to step up state asset sales.  “The advantage has shifted back to the issuers for now --
they can afford to ignore the IMF and its list of demands,”
 Chris Weafer , chief strategist at Sberbank Investment Research
in Moscow, a unit of Russia’s biggest lender, said by e-mail
Feb. 25. “It is hugely dangerous.”  New Commitments  Investors who piled into Ukraine’s 10-year bonds sold in
2007 at a yield of 6.75 percent saw prices plummet a year later
as the global financial crisis closed  market access  and forced
the nation to seek an IMF bailout. Yields reached 27 percent in
2009.  IMF financing has helped countries recover. Since the start
of 2008, the lender has made 143 new commitments totaling $638
billion. Of that, more than $164 billion has been disbursed.
Among the 44 countries currently with loans, Colombia, Mexico
and Poland have undrawn credit lines totaling $110 billion,
according to IMF data as of Jan. 31.  Silvia Zucchini, an IMF spokeswoman in  Washington , declined
to comment in an e-mail Feb. 25 on the impact of bond sales on
the lender’s relations with potential borrowers.  Los Angeles  Hungarian officials began meeting bondholders in  Los
Angeles  Jan. 28, the same day that the IMF issued a report
saying that “on the basis of current policies, economic
activity is expected to stagnate in 2013.” Prime Minister
 Viktor Orban  said two days later in Brussels that Hungary was
ending efforts to obtain an IMF agreement, following a year of
disputes over central bank independence and proposals to replace
tax increases on banks and energy companies with spending cuts.  With $99 billion of debt equal to 79 percent of GDP -- the
highest proportion among the 10 eastern EU countries -- Hungary
offered its first foreign bonds in almost two years Feb. 12,
raising $3.25 billion and paying a record-low yield of 4.2
percent on five-year notes. The sale showed Hungary can fund
itself without the IMF, Orban said on state-run MR1 radio Feb.
15.  Yields on the 2018 dollar bonds rose as high as 4.5 percent
Feb. 27 and were at 4.38 percent today. The government will
apply this month to renew a filing with U.S. regulators to issue
dollar bonds, Laszlo Buzas, deputy chief executive officer of
the Debt Management Agency, told reporters in Budapest Feb. 28.  Ukraine Sale  Ukraine, with debt equivalent to 36.8 percent of GDP
according to the  Finance Ministry , sold $1 billion of bonds due
in November 2022 at a yield of 7.625 percent last month,
compared with 9.25 percent on five-year notes issued July 2012.
The yield on the newer debt has declined since the sale to 6.94
percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The ease of borrowing in the  capital markets  takes the
pressure off of these governments to pursue structural reforms
or to enter into an IMF program,” Alexander Moseley, a senior
portfolio manager at  Schroders Plc (SDR)  in  New York , said by e-mail
Feb. 15. “Countries with weak policies and a large stock of
external debt, such as Hungary and Ukraine, are much less likely
to improve in  credit quality  and will remain highly vulnerable
to a downturn in market conditions.”  IMF Terms  Poland’s debt, at 56 percent of GDP, ranks second highest
among the EU’s 10 former communist members, followed by Slovenia
at 54 percent and Romania at 38 percent, according to data for
2012 published by the European Commission on Feb. 22. Serbia’s
public debt was equivalent to 59.2 percent of GDP at the end of
last year, according to the central bank.  In Romania, the government received 20 billion euros ($26.2
billion) of loans from the IMF and the EU between 2009 and 2011
to help the nation emerge from a two-year recession.  The country hasn’t drawn any money from the current 5
billion-euro precautionary accord agreed to in early 2011. The
IMF requires Romania to sell minority stakes in its natural-gas
and nuclear power companies to meet IMF terms, and Prime
Minister Victor Ponta told private television Digi24 Jan. 28
that the sales are “overdue.” The government issued $1.5
billion of 10-year bonds Feb. 14 at a record-low 4.5 percent
yield. The debt yielded 4.44 percent today.  Romania’s experience shows that IMF aid is no financial
panacea, Andras Giro-Szasz, Hungary’s government spokesman, told
M1 state television on Feb. 25. “It obtained a standby loan and
it was still forced to sell bonds, but what conditions did
Romania have to submit to?” said Giro-Szasz.  Serbia Suspended  The IMF suspended Serbia’s $1.3 billion loan in February
last year after the previous government failed to meet fiscal
targets. “Fiscal consolidation is an urgent priority,” the IMF
said in a Nov. 20 statement.  Serbia can attract bondholders with or without IMF
assistance, Finance Minister  Mladjan Dinkic  said at a conference
in Vienna on Jan. 15. A month later, the government issued $1.5
billion of seven-year bonds, covering 75 percent of borrowing
planned on international markets for this year, at a record-low
yield of 5.15 percent. They yielded 5.06 percent today. IMF
officials will return to Serbia in May, Dinkic said at a news
conference in Belgrade Feb. 7.  “The IMF is seeing its leverage reduced because countries
can fund themselves in the market,” Tim Ash, chief emerging-
market economist for Standard Bank Group Ltd. in London, said by
e-mail Feb. 22. “This is a negative development as countries
like Ukraine are desperately in need of reform and need an IMF
anchor to push reform forward.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  