-- Bonus Cap to Turn U.K. Bankers Against EU, Tory Lawmaker Says
-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e
-- 2013-03-06T12:56:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/bonus-cap-to-turn-u-k-bankers-against-eu-tory-lawmaker-says.html
European Union plans to curb
bankers’ bonuses will push those working in London’s finance
industry to join the campaign for Britain to quit the bloc, a
leading euroskeptic Conservative Party lawmaker said.  “There are those in the euro system who can’t quite
forgive the success story that is the City of London, and these
spiteful proposals are deliberately designed to harm a U.K.
national interest,” Douglas Carswell told  Guy Johnson  on
Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse” today. “I have advocated
that the  United Kingdom  should withdraw from the European Union,
and I think that message will now resonate with a lot of
bankers.”  EU finance ministers wrangled with U.K. Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  this week over the proposal, which says
bonuses can’t be bigger than salaries unless certain conditions
are met. The pay rules were a late addition to wide-ranging EU
legislation on how it will apply global rules to strengthen bank
capital requirements.  Ireland, which holds the EU’s rotating presidency, pledged
to iron out final elements of an agreement in coming weeks, even
as Osborne said he “can’t support the proposal currently on the
table.” Conservative Prime Minister  David Cameron  has pledged a
referendum on the U.K. staying in the EU if he’s re-elected in
2015.  Carswell said he doesn’t expect the bonus proposals will
cut bankers’ remuneration.  “All we’re going to see is a barrier against management
rewarding good performance,” the Tory lawmaker said. “If
 Europe  was the only part of the planet that did financial
services, perhaps this measure wouldn’t really matter. But in an
age where it’s very simple for banks to relocate and we’re
competing with Dubai, New York,  Singapore , I think this is
another example of the euro elite imposing a very destructive
measure that will actually lead Europe in aggregate to be much
worse off.”  Carswell said the proposal raises “fundamental questions”
about whether Britain should remain part of the EU. “I think
many in the City of  London  will now be open to the suggestion
that we should leave,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eddie Buckle in London at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  