-- Booker Adds Newark Police as Revenue Gains Boost Budget
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2013-03-06T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/booker-adds-newark-police-as-revenue-gains-boost-budget.html
Newark  Mayor  Cory Booker , a Democrat
who’s eying a U.S. Senate bid, said he’ll expand the police
force this year as growing revenue frees New Jersey’s biggest
city from reliance on emergency state aid.  “After years dating back to the 1990s, I declare this year
Newark’s year of budgetary independence,” Booker, 43, said
yesterday in his annual speech about the state of the city.
“Our budget is now strong, our budget is now balanced, and, in
fact, our revenues are growing and our tax base is expanding.”  Booker said he’ll also seek to set up a review board after
misconduct complaints against police. “It is my vision that
this citizen-lead police oversight panel will help us to make
Newark a model for police-community trust,” he said in a
prepared text of the speech. “With more police, we will double
down on our efforts to improve police-community relations.”  Booker in 2010 fired more than 160 police officers, or 15
percent of the force, after Republican Governor  Chris Christie 
cut local aid in his first budget. About one-fourth of Newark’s
almost 278,000 residents live in poverty. City statistics show a
5 percent increase in crime this year through March 3 compared
with a similar period a year ago.  The mayor said he’ll seek to add more than 50 new police
officers this year, and more in 2014. Newark will end its past
reliance on state aid as an expanding tax base lets the city
increase the department’s roster, Booker said.  Hot Market  “We are becoming the economic engine of our state,” the
mayor said before business and political leaders at the New
Jersey Performing Arts Center in the city. “Based on reported
data from the fourth quarter of 2012, Newark is currently the
hottest market for construction” in  New Jersey , he said. “We
are leading growth. We are booming.”  Booker said his efforts to turn around the city since
taking office in 2006 have resulted in efficiency gains and
productivity improvements, allowing him to submit a budget that
calls for less spending than in his first year in office.  “In 2013 Newark will break through and we as a municipal
government will not have to apply for emergency state aid,
distressed city state aid or transitional state aid,” Booker
said. “We are done, done and done.”  The mayor said he has also sought to improve schools while
taking steps to attract business and investment to Newark.  Economic Gains  Those efforts bore fruit in the form of a new  Marriott
International Inc. (MAR)  hotel downtown, the first in more than 40
years, Booker said. he said a partnership that includes Newark
native Shaquille O’Neal “will begin construction this year on
Newark’s first new residential tower in decades.”  While crime has declined since 2006, Booker said more needs
to be done. He said that by adding officers and creating a
Civilian Police Review Board, he aims to restore the
department’s standing in the community.  In May 2011, the U.S. Justice Department started a probe
into allegations of discrimination, use of excessive force and
improper treatment of suspects by Newark police. The  American
Civil Liberties Union  of New Jersey had requested the
investigation, saying the force failed to follow up on
misconduct claims.  Booker was the first to line up a bid for the U.S. Senate
seat held by  Frank Lautenberg , a Democrat. The mayor said Dec.
20 that he is exploring a run and used his speech yesterday to
shore up his legacy in  City Hall .  Lautenberg Exiting  Lautenberg, who at 89 is the oldest member of the Senate,
said last month that he won’t seek a sixth term in 2014, setting
off a wide-open race.  Booker is a  rising star  in the national Democratic Party --
he was a speaker at the 2012 Democratic National Convention and
helped lead its platform committee.  The mayor may have to contend with New Jersey Senate
President Stephen Sweeney of West Deptford, the state’s highest-
ranking Democratic lawmaker, and U.S. Representative  Frank Pallone  for his party’s nomination. Both have expressed interest
in the post.  “With 481 days left in my term as mayor, and the demand
for jobs in this city among the top needs of our residents, I
will not stop, I will not yield,” Booker said of his efforts to
attract business and investment to Newark. “We won’t just count
the days -- we will make every day count.”  The 2014 Senate campaign will be the first for an open seat
in the Garden State since 2002. No New Jersey Republicans have
been elected to the chamber since Clifford Case in 1972, and
none have said they might make a bid for the office since
Lautenberg announced his plan to step down.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  