-- Boston Scientific to Present Full Device Study at Meeting
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-03-06T22:33:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/boston-scientific-to-present-full-device-study-at-meeting.html
Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX)  said its
study on a novel heart device to prevent strokes will be
presented in full at a meeting March 9, after the company
surprised investors and organizers earlier this week with plans
to release only a limited look at the safety data.  Initial findings from the clinical trial, called  Prevail ,
will be released at the  American College of Cardiology  meeting
in  San Francisco , the Natick, Massachusetts-based company said
in a statement. The study tracked the safety of the Watchman
device for a week after surgery and examined whether it reduced
the risk of stroke, clots or death 18 months after treatment.  The Watchman is used to seal off a reservoir in the upper
chamber of the heart that allows blood to pool and form clots
that can trigger strokes. If successful, it will give patients
an alternative to blood-thinning drugs that cut stroke risk,
while boosting the potential for uncontrolled bleeding. Boston
Scientific officials have estimated the market for the device at
$500 million a year.  “This is truly a late-breaking clinical trial
presentation,” Ken Stein, chief medical officer of the
company’s cardiac rhythm management group, said in today’s
statement. “The last patient six-month follow-up occurred in
January and the team has been working diligently to complete the
preliminary analysis of the data.”  The preliminary analysis that looked at how the device
performed through the first 18 months, including and excluding
complications during the first week after surgery, will be
presented, Stein said. The final analysis will be completed in
the coming weeks and is expected to be part of an application to
the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  for approval of the
device, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in  Minneapolis  at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  