-- Bovespa Gains Most Since July as Petrobras Soars on Diesel Price
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-03-06T21:59:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/bovespa-futures-advances-as-brazil-inflation-unexpectedly-slows.html
The Bovespa index surged the most
since July, led by a rally in  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  after it
unexpectedly raised diesel prices by 5 percent.  Petrobras, as Brazil’s state-controlled oil company is
known, jumped the most since December 2008, making it the
biggest contributor to the gauge’s rise. Materials exporters
 surged  as Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA and Vale SA
climbed at least 6 percent. Homebuilder Rossi Residencial SA and
phone service provider Tim Participacoes SA led advances among
companies that depend on consumers after inflation unexpectedly
slowed in February, easing concern rising prices may hurt the
economic recovery.  The Bovespa climbed 3.6 percent to 57,940.14 at the close
of trading in Sao Paulo. Sixty-two stocks rose on the gauge
while seven fell. Brazil’s IGP-DI index of wholesale,
construction and consumer prices rose 0.20 percent in February,
below the 0.35 percent median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  “Every increase on diesel or gas prices is extremely
positive for Petrobras, since it allows for a direct gain in
revenue without any additional cost,” Oswaldo Telles, an equity
analyst at Banco Espirito Santo SA, wrote in a research note to
clients today. “This increase will have a strong positive
effect on the shares.”  Petrobras jumped 9 percent to 18.05 reais, with trading
volume about 2.6 times the daily average, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Usiminas gained 7.3 percent to 10.34 reais. Vale rose 6
percent to 35.83 reais, the biggest jump since April.  Inflation Slows  Rossi advanced 6.4 percent to 3.47 reais. Tim, Brazil’s
second-biggest mobile-phone operator by market share, added 3.4
percent to 8.85 reais.  “The IGP-DI index slowed in February, which could be good
in the short term, although the outlook for inflation going
forward is still challenging,”  Alvaro Bandeira , a partner at
Orama Asset Management, said by phone from  Rio de Janeiro .  Cia. de Bebidas das Americas, the Brazilian unit of
Anheuser-Busch Inbev NV, gained 2.6 percent to 90.14 reais.  ALL America Latina Logistica rose 1.8 percent to 9.87
reais. The company  plans  to bid for ports in Santos and in
southern states of Brazil, newspaper  Valor Economico  reported
today, citing Chief Financial Officer Rodrigo Campos.  Relative Value  The Bovespa has dropped 8.5 percent from this year’s high
on Jan. 3 on concern that accelerating inflation may curb
Brazil’s economic recovery and the government’s interventionist
policies may hurt profits in industries including utilities and
energy. The MSCI BRIC Index of shares in Brazil,  Russia ,  India 
and  China  has slid 3.1 percent over the same period.  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge  trades  at 11.7 times
analysts’ earnings estimates for the next four quarters,
compared with 10.6 for the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  of 21
developing nations’ equities, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Trading volume for stocks in  Sao Paulo  was 9.46 billion
reais today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares with a daily average of 7.56 billion reais this year
through March 1, according to data compiled by the  exchange .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  