-- BP Safer Two Years After Gulf Spill, CEO Says
-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 2013-03-06T22:27:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/bp-ceo-dudley-says-company-safer-two-years-after-gulf-spill.html
BP Plc (BP/) , the second-largest European
 oil company , is safer and stronger more than two years after a
blowout at a  Gulf of Mexico  oil well caused the worst offshore
 oil spill  in U.S. history, the company’s chief executive officer
said.  “We alone stepped up from the outset, acknowledging our
role, waiving the liability cap and committing ourselves to help
restore the environment and economy of the Gulf Coast region,”
 Robert Dudley  said in a speech at the IHS CERAWeek conference in
Houston. “We are honoring our commitments.”  Dudley, who took the helm six months after BP’s Macondo
well disaster in April 2010, has sought more profitable
opportunities to help reverse  production  losses stemming from
$38 billion in asset sales used to help pay legal claims. BP is
facing as much as $17.6 billion in fines and additional billions
in unspecified punitive damages in a U.S. federal trial that
began Feb. 25 in  New Orleans .  “We are vigorously defending the company, but we are
determined to make our case in the courtroom and not in the
press,” he said. “We believe the law and the facts are on our
side.”  The blast, which killed 11 workers, so far has cost the
London-based company a total of $24 billion in claims, penalties
and clean-up costs. BP has spent or provisioned more than $40
billion, Dudley said.  U.S., Russia  BP plans to spend $4 billion a year in the U.S. Gulf of
 Mexico  for the next 10 years, part of a growing focus on the
U.S., where the company has invested $55 billion in the past
five years, more than in any other country, he said. The company
also remains committed to investing in  Russia , where there’s
“enormous scope” for increasing production, he said.  “After decades of false starts, the U.S. seems to have hit
upon a successful energy policy mix, and Russia is well on its
way,” he said.  Dudley engineered the biggest oil industry deal in more
than a decade when the company sold its stake in Russian
producer TNK-BP to OAO Rosneft, which bought the entire venture
for about $55 billion.  Venezuela  “The joint venture was ultimately unsustainable- and we
have managed to turn that challenge into an opportunity,” he
said. BP will take a nearly 20 percent stake in Rosneft,
according to his remarks. Dudley was nominated last month to
serve on the Rosneft board.  Russia “has the largest combined oil and gas reserves, as
well as the highest combined production of oil and gas” Dudley
said. “In our view, its potential has yet to be realized.”  BP may look at investing in  Venezuela  again if the “right
conditions” exist after the death of President  Hugo Chavez ,
Dudley said on CNBC.  “We’re an oil company, so if the investments are there,
economic and stable, you would see us there,” Dudley said.  BP announced the sale of its Venezuelan business to TNK-BP
in 2010. The company has an interest in Venezuela through its
stake in OAO Rosneft, Dudley said.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  is the largest European oil company.
BP’s American Depositary Receipts rose 0.6 percent to $40.71 at
the close in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  