-- BP, Transocean Officials Botched Tests, Witness Testifies
-- B y   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-03-07T18:05:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/bp-transocean-officials-botched-tests-witness-says.html
BP Plc (BP/)  and  Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  officials
on the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig botched safety tests the
night it blew up and sent oil spilling into the Gulf of Mexico,
an expert on drilling told a judge.  The rig’s crew misinterpreted results of negative pressure
tests done April 20, 2010, that showed the Macondo well was
unstable,  Richard Heenan , the oil-drilling expert, testified in
a trial over spill claims. The U.S. government contends the
botched test led to the blast, which killed 11 workers and sent
more than 4 million barrels of oil into the Gulf.  “I couldn’t believe, based on what I saw, that the people
on the rig came to the conclusion that this was a successful
test,” Heenan told a federal judge yesterday in New Orleans.
The handling of the check “was a gross and extreme departure”
from accepted standards in the oil industry, he said.  After hearing evidence in the three-month trial, U.S.
District Judge  Carl Barbier  will decide who is liable for
damages over the largest offshore oil spill in U.S. history.  He will also rule on whether BP, Transocean or other
companies were grossly negligent in their handling of the rig
and well. His ruling in the nonjury trial will affect how much
each company may have to pay.  Robert Dudley, BP’s chief executive officer, said yesterday
at an oil conference in Houston that his company is “safer”
and “stronger” almost three years after the spill, and he
praised BP’s response to the disaster.  BP’s Actions  “We alone stepped up from the outset, acknowledging our
role, waiving the liability cap and committing ourselves to help
restore the environment and economy of the Gulf Coast region,”
Dudley said.  BP rose 10 pence to 449.6 pence in London  trading  today.  The spill from the Macondo well fouled the Gulf and the
shoreline of surrounding states. The accident sparked hundreds
of lawsuits against London-based BP, Vernier, Switzerland-based
Transocean, which owned the rig, and Houston-based  Halliburton
Co. (HAL) , which handled cement work on the well.  If BP is found grossly negligent, it may be liable to the
U.S. for as much as $17.6 billion in Clean Water Act fines, as
well as unspecified punitive damages to claimants who weren’t
part of an $8.5 billion settlement of lawsuits. For Transocean
and Halliburton, a similar finding would mean they could face
punitive-damages awards.  Behind Schedule  The government and spill victims say BP was over budget and
behind schedule on the Macondo well, located off the Louisiana
coast, prompting the company to cut corners and ignore safety
tests showing the well was unstable.  They also allege that Halliburton’s cement job was
defective and that Transocean employees made missteps on the
rig, including disabling safety systems, failing to maintain the
installation properly and not adequately training its crew to
handle a crisis.  BP sued its contractors, claiming Transocean employees’
miscues were the main cause of the explosion and Halliburton
concealed flaws with the drilling project’s cement work.
Transocean and Halliburton countersued, pointing fingers at BP.  BP pleaded guilty to 14 federal charges in November,
including 12 felonies, and admitted it misinterpreted the
critical pressure test just before the explosion. The U.K.
company agreed to pay $4 billion in fines and penalties, plus
$525 million to settle a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
case.  Transocean also pleaded guilty to criminal violation of
pollution laws and paid $400 million in fines as part of a $1
billion settlement of government claims.  Test Results  The U.S. and spill victims contend BP’s and Transocean’s
misinterpretations of the negative-pressure tests were a key
cause of the rig’s explosion and the subsequent spill. The tests
check for an increase in the pressure or flow of oil or gas up
the well, which can lead to a so-called blowout.  After two unsuccessful tests, BP began monitoring negative
testing on an additional pipe, called a kill line. The test
showed pressure on the drill pipe and zero pressure on the kill
line, an anomaly that indicated the well wasn’t secure, the U.S.
said in court papers.  Heenan, a partner in Calgary-based  Canadian Petroleum
Engineering Inc.  called as an expert witness by government
lawyers, said results showing pressure in the well had climbed
to 1,400 pounds per square inch “was not a good thing” and
should have indicated the well was unstable.  The drilling expert also discounted explanations by BP and
Transocean officials that they believed the safety tests were
successful based on a so-called bladder effect. That condition
occurs when pressure on valves may produce false readings.  Bladder Effect  BP and Transocean contend the rig’s crew accepted the
anomalous test results at the urging of the rig’s drilling
supervisor, Jason Anderson, who according to trial evidence
cited the bladder effect as support for his position. Anderson
died in the blast.  After reviewing records related to the well and the safety
tests, Heenan testified there was “no technical basis” for
misinterpreting the checks because of worries about the bladder
effect.  Under cross-examination, Heenan conceded that BP officials,
such as Macondo well supervisor  Donald Vidrine , may have been
convinced the safety tests were valid and there was no need to
immediately halt operations on the installation.  In court filings, the government’s lawyers have pointed to
a conversation between Vidrine and Mark Hafle, a Houston-based
official, on the night of the rig explosion in which Hafle
questioned whether the safety tests had been properly performed.
Vidrine invoked his constitutional rights against self-
incrimination to avoid testifying in the case.  Manslaughter Charges  Vidrine faces manslaughter charges over his alleged
misinterpretation of the pressure tests, which prosecutors
contend led to the fatal blast on the rig.  Given the discussions about whether the pressure tests
results were affected by the bladder effect, Vidrine may have
believed the well was stable and not a serious threat to
explode, Heenan testified yesterday.  “I don’t believe he would have intentionally put his life
or anyone else’s in danger,” the drilling expert said. He added
that he believed the Transocean crew on the rig may have been
operating under the same belief that the tests shouldn’t set off
alarm bells.  Glen Benge , who previously worked for Exxon Mobil Corp. and
has been an expert on oil-field cement for 36 years, testified
yesterday that BP officials didn’t properly test the cement used
at the Macondo well.  Save Time  Benge said BP officials sought to save time by not doing
foam-stability testing on the cement used on the well. BP
executives blamed cement contractor Halliburton for providing
the shoddy materials used on the project.  The expert said that cement left over from another oil
drilling project was used on the Macondo project and that BP, as
the well’s operator, was ultimately responsible for the quality
of the cement work.  The judge also heard more testimony yesterday from  Ronnie
Sepulvado , a BP manager assigned to the Macondo project, who
said that although the company had become more cost-conscious
over the years, he didn’t sacrifice safety procedures to speed
up production.  Sepulvado, who wasn’t on the rig the night of the
explosion, acknowledged that drilling operations on the Macondo
well were behind schedule because of weather conditions and
other factors. He said the company didn’t push the crew to
disregard safety to speed up operations.  The well supervisor testified March 5 that some of the
rig’s equipment, including a device used in drilling operations,
was broken for about three years. The crew would “work around
it,” he added. Sepulvado said he constantly raised the
maintenance issue “with just about everybody on the rig,” he
said.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, 10-md-02179,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of  Louisiana  (New
Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allen Johnson Jr. in federal court in New Orleans at
 allenmct@gmail.com ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington,  Delaware , at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 