-- Brazil Keeps 7.25% Rate on Faster CPI Amid Slower Growth
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i   a n d   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2013-03-07T00:23:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/brazil-keeps-7-25-rate-on-faster-inflation-amid-slower-growth.html
Brazil’s central bank kept its
benchmark rate at a record low for the third straight meeting,
as policy makers seek to buoy the country’s economic recovery
amid accelerating inflation.  The bank’s board, led by President Alexandre Tombini, left
the Selic rate unchanged at 7.25 percent today, as forecast by
all 59 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. It removed from the
statement language used since October that said it would
maintain monetary policy for a “prolonged period of time.”
Instead, the board said it would assess “the macroeconomic
scenario until its next meeting, to then define the next steps
in its monetary policy strategy.”  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration is working to
lift the world’s second-largest emerging market out of
stagflation, after Brazil eked out 0.9 percent growth last year
while price increases run near the top of the central bank’s
target range. Even as the government extends tax cuts, lowers
energy costs and pledges to lure more investment, economists
have cut their 2013 growth forecast to 3.09 percent from as high
as 4.50 percent last June.  “The new language means they’ll tighten, they have to if
Dilma wants to enter an election year with inflation somewhat
under control,” said  John Welch , a strategist at  CIBC World
Markets , said by phone from Toronto. “They have to pack as much
as possible into this cycle to be able to ease next year.” The
board also said its vote was unanimous.  Swap rates on the contract maturing in July 2013, the most
traded in  Sao Paulo , fell three basis points, or 0.03 percentage
point, to 7.21 percent. The real weakened 0.3 percent to 1.9704
per dollar.  ‘Requires Attention’  Inflation is at a high level and requires attention, the
central bank said in response to a report showing that consumer
price increases  in January  exceeded economists’ expectations for
the seventh straight month, jumping 0.86 percent and pushing the
annual rate to 6.15 percent. The bank targets inflation of 4.5
percent, plus or minus two percentage points.  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said on Feb. 15 that policy
makers stand ready to combat inflation, adding that raising
 interest rates  is an option.  After the real fell 9 percent against the  U.S. dollar  last
year, policy makers have allowed the currency to strengthen 4.1
percent this year, the most among 16 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. A stronger currency can help restrain inflation by
making imports cheaper.  Policy Response  Even as officials plan new tax cuts and reduce electricity
costs to try and tame price pressures, economists including
 Henrique Meirelles , former central bank president and current
senior adviser for KKR Co. LP, expect inflation to remain close
to the upper limit of the target range. Inflation is a
“challenge” and will hover from 5.5 percent to 6 percent in
2013, Meirelles told investors March 5 in  Rio de Janeiro .  Analysts forecast consumer price increases of 5.70 percent
this year, according to the central bank survey of about 100
economists published on March 4.  Latin America’s biggest economy in 2012 expanded at the
slowest pace in three years, the national statistics agency said
March 1. The government predicts growth will rebound to at least
3 percent this year as the measures it took in 2011 and 2012
start to show effect, Mantega told reporters March 1.
Investment, which rose in the fourth quarter for the first time
after four consecutive drops, will continue to recover in 2013,
he said.  Profits Squeezed  Government officials including Mantega traveled last week
to  New York  and  London  to drum up $235 billion in infrastructure
investment. Rousseff, who has met one-on-one with 11
businessmen, from billionaire  Eike Batista  to Banco Santander SA
Chairman  Emilio Botin , is trying to reverse a slide in
confidence that’s behind the world’s second-worst stock slump
among major exchanges.  The Bovespa index has fallen 4.9 percent this year, the
fifth-worst performance among 94 major stock indexes tracked by
Bloomberg worldwide  Companies have seen their profits squeezed by flagging
economic activity.  Lojas Renner SA (LREN3) , Brazil’s biggest clothing
retailer, fell the most in a week on Feb. 27 after reporting
fourth-quarter net income that trailed analysts’ estimates.
 ArcelorMittal (MT) , the world’s biggest steelmaker, this month joined
rival  Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas  in raising prices in Brazil
to recover profit margins reduced by lower growth and increased
competition.  ‘Last 45 Days’  Consumer demand will continue to propel growth this year,
said Italo Lombardi, an economist at  Standard Chartered Bank (STAN)  in
New York, in an interview before today’s decision. Family
consumption will be robust, while the service sector is also
showing strength, he said.  The shift in policy makers’ language signals that consumer
prices have surpassed economic activity as the top concern on
central bankers’ minds, according to Marcelo Salomon, the co-
head for Latin America economics at  Barclays Plc. (BARC)   “Things changed in the last 45 days,” Salomon said in a
telephone interview from New York before today’s decision.
“They are a lot more hawkish than they were previously. What
they are telling the market is that they are willing to hike
earlier than they or we thought.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Malinowski in Brasilia at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net ;
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  