-- Brazil to Hold Rate as Inflation Collides With Fragile Recovery
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i
-- 2013-03-06T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/brazil-to-hold-rate-as-inflation-collides-with-fragile-recovery.html
Brazil  is likely to keep its key
 interest rate  at a record low for the third straight meeting, as
policy makers are caught between a fragile economic recovery and
faster-than-expected inflation.  The central bank board, led by President Alexandre Tombini,
will maintain the Selic rate at 7.25 percent today, according to
all 59 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The decision follows
news last week that Brazil’s gross domestic product grew less
than economists estimated in the fourth quarter.  The world’s second-largest emerging market slowed for a
second consecutive year in 2012 even after President Dilma Rousseff’s administration reduced taxes by $23 billion, stepped
up  government spending , weakened its currency and slashed
borrowing costs to a record low. The measures that failed to
ignite growth helped fuel inflation that jumped in January by
the most in almost eight years.  “The government has created poor economic conditions,”
former central bank director Alexandre Schwartsman said in a
telephone interview from  Sao Paulo . “Economic growth is far
from what the government wants, and they are confronting a risk
that inflation will be above the target range at some point this
year.”  Consumer price increases in January exceeded  economists’
expectations  for the seventh straight month, jumping 0.86
percent and pushing the annual rate to 6.15 percent. The central
bank targets inflation of 4.5 percent, plus or minus two
percentage points.  Inflation Fight, Rates  Government measures “momentarily caused some disturbances
for a few sectors, but caused a very good outlook for others,”
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said in an interview last week.
“The economy will grow more this year.”  Swap rates on the contract maturing in January 2014, the
most traded in Sao Paulo, have risen 53 basis points, or 0.53
percentage point, to 7.67 percent in 2013, as traders wager the
central bank will need to increase rates as early as April to
tame inflation.  Mantega on Feb. 15 said Brazil will do what it takes to
keep inflation under control, including raising borrowing costs
if necessary.  Policy maker concerns have shifted away from economic
growth and toward anchoring inflation expectations as price
increases approach the upper limit of the central bank’s target
range, according to Gustavo Rangel, chief  Latin America 
economist at ING Bank LV.  “Inflation has become much more persistent than they
thought,” Rangel said in a telephone interview from Bogota.  April Increase  Traders see an 80 percent chance policy makers will raise
the Selic rate to 7.5 percent in their April meeting,  Luciano
Rostagno , chief strategist at Banco WestLB do Brasil, said in a
phone interview from Sao Paulo.  Latin America’s biggest economy grew 0.9 percent in 2012,
the slowest pace among major  emerging markets , the national
statistics agency said March 1. GDP increased 0.6 percent in the
fourth quarter, less than the 0.8 percent median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey of 37 economists.  Brazil’s consumption-propelled growth has also shown signs
of fatigue. While household consumption jumped 3.1 percent last
year, retail sales unexpectedly declined in December for the
first time since May. Personal default rates have held near
levels last seen in 2009, even as average loan rates have fallen
to near record lows.  Government Forecast  “It was a very bad year,”  Tony Volpon , head of emerging
market research for the Americas at Nomoura Securities
International, said in a telephone interview from  New York .
“The economy is not growing and credit markets are not
booming.”  The government forecasts that growth will rebound to at
least 3 percent this year as the measures it took in 2011 and
2012 start to show effect, Mantega told reporters March 1.
Investment, which rose in the fourth quarter for the first time
after four consecutive drops, will continue to recover in 2013,
he said.  Government officials including Mantega traveled last week
to New York and  London  to drum up $235 billion in infrastructure
investment. Rousseff, who has met one-on-one with 11
businessmen, from billionaire  Eike Batista  to Banco Santander SA
Chairman  Emilio Botin , is trying to reverse a slide in
confidence that’s behind the world’s second-worst stock slump
among major exchanges.  The  Bovespa index  has fallen 8.2 percent this year, the
worst performance after Cyprus.  New Language  Economists covering Brazil increased their 12-month
inflation forecast to the highest since September and expect
consumer prices to rise 5.70 percent in 2013, according to a
central bank survey of about 100 economists taken March 1.  The Selic will be at 7.25 percent at year-end, according to
the median estimate in the same central bank survey. The five
analysts with the most accurate record of Selic predictions
forecast 7.75 percent, according to the central bank.  Schwartsman said the central bank, in a bid to signal
interest rates may rise as early as April, may remove from the
statement that will accompany today’s decision wording
indicating that policy makers plan to keep monetary conditions
stable for a “sufficiently prolonged period.” This language
was first introduced in the October statement.  “In this meeting, they are going to prepare the terrain
for a modest tightening cycle,” Schwartsman said. “They are
going to unfreeze interest rates.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Malinowski in Santiago at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  