-- Brazil and Colombia Seen by ICO Making Up for Coffee Rust Losses
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-03-06T11:00:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/brazil-and-colombia-seen-by-ico-making-up-for-coffee-rust-losses.html
Coffee output in  Brazil  and
 Colombia , the largest arabica producers, will probably make up
for leaf rust losses in Central America and  Mexico  for now,
according to the  International Coffee Organization .  Brazil, the largest producer, will help make up for losses
due to large crops and bigger  stockpiles , Mauricio Galindo, head
of operations at the ICO, said in an interview in London
yesterday. Colombia will have a bigger crop, he said.  Brazil “has pretty consistent supply” because it has been
able to minimize production changes from one year to the next in
its two-year coffee cycle, Galindo, former head of agricultural
commodities research at JPMorgan Chase & Co., said. “The fact
that Colombia has gone to replant 70 percent of trees by now, it
should start increasing productivity substantially already in
this crop year. Certainly the big jump we will see is in
2013-14.”  Arabica coffee futures have dropped 2.1 percent this year
as new harvests added to global stockpiles. Inventories in
warehouses monitored by ICE Futures U.S. in  New York  climbed 1
million bags last year and are up another 135,937 bags in 2013.  Leaf rust losses in Central America and Mexico are
estimated at 4 million to 5 million bags in 2012-13, said
Ricardo Villanueva, president of ICO’s private sector committee.
It may take up to 10 years for Central America production to
make up the damage, Galindo said.  Output in Colombia will be 2.3 million bags bigger this
year at 10 million bags, Luis Genaro Munoz, the head of the
National Federation of Coffee Growers, estimated last month. The
ICO has raised its forecast for 2012-13 production to 8.5
million bags from 8 million bags, Galindo said.  Brazil Stockpiles  In Brazil, output will be a record 47 million to 48 million
bags for an off-year in the two-year cycle, according to farmer
cooperative Cooparaiso. That compares with 50.8 million bags
last year and 43.1 million bags two years ago, according to
Conab, Brazil’s forecasting agency. Stockpiles stood at 28.4
million bags as of Jan. 1, according to Terra Forte Exportacao e
Importacao de Cafe Ltda., a Brazil exporter.  Growers in Colombia have been striking since Feb. 25 as
lower coffee prices and a higher peso reduced income. The peso
appreciated 9.7 percent against the  U.S. dollar  last year. It
was the third best performing emerging market currency, after
Polish zloty and the Hungarian forint, data on Bloomberg showed.  Growers in Colombia, which once got a minimum price for
their beans, want this system to be reinstated, according to
Galindo. The government has offered to raise subsidies to
growers until the end of the year, researcher F.O. Licht GmbH
said in a report e-mailed March 4.  Coffee exports from the Andean nation have not yet been
affected as warehouses that store the beans at ports were well-
stocked, said Galindo, who is from Colombia.  “If they finish soon and they find a compromise, I don’t
think at this point it will affect production,” Galindo said.
“Of course if it goes on and on and in June we are still in
this situation, then of course yes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in  London  at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 