-- Brazil Swap Rates Rise Before Central Bank Decision; Real Drops
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-03-06T22:13:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/brazil-swap-rates-rise-before-central-bank-decision-real-drops.html
Brazil ’s swap rates climbed as an
increase in the price of diesel spurred speculation that policy
makers meeting today will signal plans to raise borrowing costs
to control inflation.  Swap rates due in January 2015 rose two basis points, or
0.02 percentage point, to 8.35 percent. The real fell for the
first time in three days, depreciating 0.3 percent to 1.9704 per
dollar.  “This diesel increase on the day of the Copom meeting
brings more pressure for the central bank in terms of
inflation,”  Luciano Rostagno , a strategist at Banco WestLB do
Brasil in  Sao Paulo , said in a phone interview. “It increases
the chances the central bank will alter its statement to signal
an increase in the Selic in April.”  Annual inflation has exceeded the 4.5 percent midpoint of
the central bank’s target range for more than two years. An
increase of 5 percent in diesel prices at refineries is
effective today, according to a regulatory filing by  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , the state-run  oil company .  The monetary policy committee, known as Copom, will hold
the Selic target lending  rate  today at a record low 7.25
percent, according to the median forecast of 59 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  At its last three meetings, the central bank has said that
keeping monetary conditions stable for a “sufficiently
prolonged period” is the best way to contain inflation.  Vehicle Sales  Some swap-rate contracts dropped after the National Vehicle
Manufacturers Association said Brazil’s vehicle sales fell 25
percent in February to 235,109 from a month earlier.  The real fell on concern the central bank may intervene to
stem its advance, according to  Eduardo Suarez , a Latin America
foreign-exchange strategist at Bank of  Nova Scotia .  Brazil’s currency has rallied 4.1 percent against the
dollar this year, the most among 25 emerging-market counterparts
tracked by Bloomberg. The real rose to a level stronger than 2
per dollar on Jan. 28 for the first time since July after the
central bank intervened as inflation accelerated.  “We see support at 1.96, followed by 1.95,” Suarez said
on the dollar versus the real in an e-mailed research report.
Support is a level where orders to buy are clustered.  Brazil pushed the real down 9 percent in 2012 and 11
percent in the prior year as Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said
developed economies were debasing currencies such as the dollar
while driving up those of emerging nations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  