-- Brazil Weighs Raising Minimum Coffee Price After Market Slump
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a   a n d   M a r i o   S e r g i o   L i m a
-- 2013-03-06T20:27:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/brazil-weighs-raising-minimum-coffee-price-after-market-slump.html
Brazil  may soon raise the minimum
price for coffee beans as part of a series of measures being
discussed to support growers in the world’s biggest coffee
producer and exporter, according to the Agriculture Ministry.  Officials will consider a price proposal next week as well
as changes to expiration dates for stockpiling loans and funds
to finance stockpiles for the coming year, Gerardo Fontelles,
secretary of production and agroenergy for the ministry, said in
an interview on the sidelines of an  International Coffee
Organization  meeting in  London  today. The proposals should be
voted on at the end of the month, he said.  A group of growers’ unions has proposed raising the minimum
price 30 percent to 340 reais ($173) a bag from 261 reais now,
Francisco Ourique, a manager at cooperative Cooparaiso in Sao
Sebastiao do Paraiso in Minas Gerais state, said in a March 4
interview.  The minimum price guarantees growers receive enough to
cover costs of production. When prices fall below it, the
Brazilian government takes action including buying stockpiles or
paying producers the gap between the minimum price and market
prices.  “It’s been four to five years that there is no change in
the minimum price, so we are analyzing cost structures in
different regions to see what proposal can be accepted,”
Fontelles said. “Our position is really that the price should
correct, but I don’t have a position from the government yet.”  Worst Performer  Growers in Brazil have lost 10 billion reais over the past
two harvests, according to Cooparaiso’s  website . Arabica coffee
futures traded on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York  fell 37 percent
last year, making it the worst performing commodity in the
Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 raw materials. The beans are
down 1.8 percent this year.  Brazil will also consider a proposal for options contracts
that would give growers the right to sell to the government at a
set price by a specific date, Fontelles said. That would depend
on how much gets harvested and how much farmers stockpile, he
said. Options contracts, if approved, would only be able to be
exercised after harvesting ends, he said.  “The most important item is stockpiling,” he said. “When
I have a position on the size of the harvest is when I will
start thinking about options. I need an indicator of the
market.”  Conab, the  agriculture ministry ’s forecasting agency, in
January estimated Brazil will produce 47 million to 50.2 million
bags of coffee this year, a record for the lower yield in the
crop’s two-year cycle. A bag of coffee weighs 132 pounds (60
kilograms).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net 
Mario Sergio Lima in Brasilia at 
 mlima11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 