-- Cable Says More U.K. Capital Spending Might Boost Growth
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-03-06T17:34:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/cable-says-more-u-k-capital-spending-might-boost-growth.html
Business Secretary Vince Cable said
the economic argument in the U.K. may have shifted in favor of
debt-funded capital investment, with slow growth now a greater
concern than a loss of market confidence.  “There is a body of opinion arguing that the risks to the
economy of sticking to existing plans are greater than the risks
stemming from significantly increased and sustained public
investment,” Cable wrote in an article for the  New Statesman
magazine , headlined “When the facts change, should I change my
mind?”  While Cable, a Liberal Democrat, defended the decision of
the Conservative-led coalition government in 2010 to emphasize
austerity and deficit reduction, he said that move had been made
“in the context of febrile markets and worries about sovereign
risk, at that stage in  Greece , but with the potential for
contagion.” Now, he said, “the question is whether the balance
of risks has changed.”  Cable’s article came as Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne continued preparations for his March 20 budget. The
economy  shrank 0.3 percent  in the final quarter of 2012, leaving
it on the brink of a triple-dip recession. The opposition Labour
Party argues that the lack of growth is the result of Osborne’s
austerity program. Moody’s Investors Service cut the U.K.’s top
credit rating last month, citing the weak growth outlook and
challenges to fiscal consolidation.  The business secretary cited International Monetary Fund
comments last year urging Osborne to consider a change of course
if the economy remains weak.  Cable also raised doubts about whether the Bank of
 England ’s monetary stimulus program, known as quantitative
easing, is sufficient to help the economy.  “The argument is building that QE may have been useful in
the accident-and-emergency ward but is less useful for long-term
rehab,” he wrote. “Long-term savers are right to be concerned
-- yet this merely reinforces how important it is to return the
U.K. to growth and the higher long-term rates that usually
follow growth. A premature rate rise would achieve the
opposite.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  