-- Cameron Fends Off Labour After Resisting EU Bonus Curbs
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2013-03-06T15:36:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/cameron-fends-off-labour-after-resisting-eu-bonus-curbs.html
Prime Minister David Cameron
defended the British government’s resistance to the European
Union’s planned cap on bankers’ bonuses after the opposition
Labour Party accused him of being “totally out of touch.”  Labour leader Ed Miliband used the prime minister’s weekly
question-and-answer session in Parliament today to attack
Cameron’s stance on the EU proposals after Chancellor of the
Exchequer George Osborne said yesterday in Brussels that he
can’t support them. Miliband began by asking Cameron about
“John from east  London ,” a banker who earns 1 million pounds
($1.5 million) a year.  “He’s worried that under the new regulation his bonus may
be capped at 2 million pounds,” Miliband said, to laughter from
Labour lawmakers sitting behind him in the House of Commons in
London.  Cameron replied by pointing out that Miliband had worked as
a Treasury aide to Gordon Brown during his decade as chancellor
starting in 1997. “Under this government, bonuses are one
quarter of what they were when he was in the Treasury,” the
prime minister said. “I don’t have to listen to the croupier in
the casino when it all went wrong.”  Wage inequality is being used by Labour in a bid to show
Cameron’s Conservatives as a party that does too much to help
the rich at the expense of what Miliband calls the “squeezed
middle.” Cameron’s party came third last week in a special
election in Eastleigh in southern  England , fomenting renewed
dissent in his party over his ability to lead it into the next
election in 2015.  Irish Deal  “I can’t support the proposal currently on the table, but
I hope if we make progress over the next couple of weeks that we
have a proposal I can support,” Osborne said yesterday after
other EU nations backed the bonus-cap deal.  Ireland, which holds the EU’s rotating presidency, pledged
to iron out the last elements of the agreement in coming weeks.
Pay rules were a late addition to EU legislation on how it will
apply global guidelines to strengthen bank capital requirements.  Talks had dragged on for 18 months before the Irish
negotiated the bonus agreement, which says bonuses can’t be
bigger than salaries unless certain conditions are met, in order
to move the broader effort forward.  Banks have warned that the bonus curbs would place them at
a disadvantage in hiring the best recruits and force them to
boost executives’ basic pay.  London Mayor Boris Johnson, a Conservative like Cameron and
Osborne, said the U.K. government should be ready to block the
proposals, calling them an attack on London as a financial
center.  ‘Knock London’  “We don’t try to cap the pay of oil executives or football
players,” Johnson told reporters in the British capital today.
“I can see why people rage about what happened with the banks
but this is an attempt to knock London off its perch and we’re
not going to let it happen.”  Johnson, a possible future Tory leader, said the U.K.
should be ready to invoke the “Luxembourg Compromise,” which
allows an EU government to block a majority decision when it is
highly detrimental to the national interest.  “I really hope Brussels will think again,” Johnson said.
“It’s not just hostile to the greatest financial center on
earth. It’s hostile to growth across the EU. If this did
succeed, people would just head off to New York or  Singapore .”  The plans will push those working in London’s finance
industry to join the campaign for Britain to quit the EU, a
leading euroskeptic Conservative lawmaker said.  “There are those in the euro system who can’t quite
forgive the success story that is the City of London, and these
spiteful proposals are deliberately designed to harm a U.K.
national interest,” Douglas Carswell told Guy Johnson on
Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse” today. “I have advocated
that the United Kingdom should withdraw from the European Union,
and I think that message will now resonate with a lot of
bankers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  