-- Canadian Pacific Ahead of Schedule on Job-Cut Plan, CEO Says
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2013-03-06T21:32:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/canadian-pacific-ahead-of-schedule-on-job-cut-plan-ceo-says.html
Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd. (CP) , the
least efficient North American large railroad, is ahead of its
plan to eliminate more than one-fifth of its workforce, Chief
Executive Officer Hunter Harrison said.  The company already has cut more than 3,000 jobs, Harrison
said today at a JPMorgan Chase & Co. transportation conference
in New York. He told investors in December that Calgary-based
Canadian Pacific planned to trim 4,500 of about 19,000 jobs by
2016, including 2,300 in this year’s first quarter.  “Things are going well,” Harrison said on a webcast of
the conference. “The plan is falling together. We’re way ahead
of schedule with our workforce reductions.”  Harrison, a former CEO at larger rival  Canadian National
Railway Co. (CNR)  who took over in June after activist investor
William Ackman won a proxy fight, is trying to reduce the
company’s operating ratio, an industry benchmark that compares
expenses to sales. By that measure, Canadian Pacific trails
other major North American railroads.  On an adjusted basis, the company’s ratio declined to
74.8 percent in 2012’s final quarter from 78.5 percent a year
earlier.  Employees “are tired of being called the worst railroad in
North America with the worst operating ratio,” Harrison said.
“We’ve got a strong franchise. We’re proud of it.”  Making Progress  Canadian Pacific’s four-year plan to lower the operating
ratio to “the mid-60s” is progressing well, Harrison said. He
said he’s “very comfortable” about the company’s goal of
posting a ratio “in the low 70s” this year.  “We’ve said low 70s, but if things come together and
everything hits, is there a probability that we could be below
that? Certainly,” he said.  If the company reaches its forecast of “high-single-
digits” revenue growth this year, “it’s pretty likely that we
could be bouncing against that 70 barrier,” Harrison said.
Referring to the sales outlook, he said he’s “more comfortable
about that all the time.”  Canadian Pacific rose 0.3 percent to C$129.80 at the close
in Toronto. The  shares  have gained 29 percent this year, as
Canadian National has advanced 15 percent.  The company has “effectively done away with contractors”
and consultants, Harrison said. Canadian Pacific last year
closed four hump yards, where train cars are sorted.  Service has improved “dramatically” as grain shipment
velocity increased and dwell time at terminals declined, the CEO
said. The railroad carried record levels of grain to Vancouver
in January, Harrison said, without being more specific.  Succession Plan  The CEO has overhauled the executive ranks since his
arrival, culminating with the February hiring of Keith Creel as
chief operating officer from Canadian National. Harrison, 68,
said today that Creel, 44, will take over when he retires.  “There’s a clear succession plan,” Harrison said. Because
of Creel’s age, “those questions and issues are answered for
some time. He can settle in. I think that after I leave and they
give me my gold watch or whatever, you’ll see Keith bring on
some other things far beyond what I had envisioned.”  Seven top  executives  have left Canadian Pacific since June
and 12 of 15 directors who were in place last year will have
been replaced once a new board lineup is announced before the
next shareholder meeting, the CEO said. The company’s annual
meeting will be held May 1 in Toronto, according to a filing
last month.  “If you don’t like change at Canadian Pacific, it’s not
the place to be,” Harrison said. “We’ve had a lot of change,
and there’s going to be a lot more.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  