-- Carney May Weaken Rate Rise Commitment as Canada Growth Sputters
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-03-06T05:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/carney-may-weaken-rate-rise-commitment-as-canada-growth-sputters.html
Bank of Canada  Governor  Mark Carney 
may water down his intention to raise interest rates today amid
economic growth that has lagged forecasts.  Canada’s  benchmark  overnight rate will remain 1 percent in
a decision due at 10 a.m. in Ottawa, according to all 22
economists  surveyed  by  Bloomberg News . While investors have
increased bets on a rate cut by year-end, most economists
continue to say the central bank’s next move will be a rise,
eventually.  The world’s 11th largest economy has reported slower growth
and inflation as well as job losses since Carney’s last
announcement in January, when he weakened language suggesting he
may tighten policy. Still, it would take a “catastrophe” for
Carney to actually cut rates, said  Jimmy Jean , a fixed-income
strategist at Desjardins Capital Markets in  Montreal .  “They will acknowledge the weakness but they won’t be as
dovish as the market expects,” Jean said.  Canada’s dollar fell to the weakest since June last week
and two-year bond yields also hit a nine-month low on
speculation Carney will drop his bias statement. Investors at
BlackRock Inc. and State Street Canada have said Carney may drop
the bias to raise rates today, and recommended buying short-term
debt.  Statistics Canada  said March 1 that output expanded at a
0.6 percent annualized pace in the fourth quarter, slower than
Carney’s 1 percent January forecast. The 0.5 percent  inflation
rate  seen in January remains well below his 2 percent target,
and employment fell for the first time in six months that month.  ‘Less Imminent’  While the Bank of Canada has said since April 2012 that
higher  interest rates  are a possibility, it said in January that
the timing of any increase “is less imminent than previously
anticipated”.  Companies from trucking firms to pizza makers are reporting
signs that domestic spending is slowing, while inconsistent
global demand and the strong Canadian dollar have generated nine
straight trade  deficits .  There are also “a lot of clouds in the energy sector”
Alain Bedard, Chief Executive Officer of Montreal-based trucking
company TransForce Inc., said March 1.  “During the fourth quarter, consumers continued to be
cautious spenders and this economic climate will make it even
more difficult,” Paul Goddard, CEO of Pizza Pizza Royalty
Corp., said on a Feb. 15 earnings call.  In a Jan. 23  report , the central bank pared its forecast
for economic growth this year to 2 percent from an October
prediction of 2.3 percent, and said the economy will reach full
output in the second half of 2014, at least six months later
than it previously forecast.  Fell Short  The bank’s projection was followed by economic reports that
fell short of economist forecasts, giving  Canada  the lowest
score among countries covered by the Citigroup Economic Surprise
index.  “In the very near term, more of the elements of the
downside risks have materialized,” Carney said at a Feb. 25
press conference following a speech at the Richard Ivey Business
School at Western University in  London , Ontario.  While no economist surveyed is forecasting a reduction in
the policy rate, Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce this week
moved back its forecast rate increase to the third quarter of
2014, six months later than before, said economist Emanuella Enenajor. CIBC joined Bank of  Nova Scotia  and Toronto-Dominion
Bank economists in pushing back their predictions for an
increase.  “There is no rush for the bank to push rates higher in
response to any inflationary pressure,” Enenajor said by
telephone from Toronto. “We do see a broad slowdown in domestic
demand and there will probably be little support from the export
side.”  Record Debts  Despite the weakness, Carney will be reluctant to signal
the chance of a cut given consumers continue to hold record debt
levels. The country’s housing market traditionally heats up in
the spring, Bank of Montreal senior economist  Michael Gregory 
said from Toronto. The bank, the country’s fourth largest by
assets, re-introduced a five-year mortgage at 2.99 percent this
week, a reduction of 10 basis points.  “The bank waits and maybe doesn’t change its language,”
Gregory said from Toronto. “It behooves the bank to see if the
housing market starts to cool in a season where it traditionally
heats up.”  Today’s announcement is the third-last before Carney leaves
Canada’s central bank June 1 to lead the  Bank of England  a month
later. He will keep his other title as chairman of the Financial
Stability Board, the Basel, Switzerland-based body charged by
the Group of 20 nations with developing rules to prevent another
financial crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  