-- McGraw-Hill to Consolidate S&P Lawsuits in Federal Court
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-03-07T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/mcgraw-hill-to-consolidate-s-p-lawsuits-in-federal-court.html
McGraw-Hill Cos. (MHP)  is asking for 16
lawsuits over its  Standard & Poor’s  unit’s securities ratings to
be moved into federal court, where the company will claim S&P is
protected by the U.S. Constitution’s guarantee of free speech.  McGraw-Hill, based in New York, filed so-called notices of
removal in several courts to put the cases under federal
jurisdiction and combine them for pretrial matters, such as the
exchange of evidence and questioning of witnesses.  The lawsuits, filed by state attorneys general and lawyers
for the  District of Columbia , allege that S&P violated state
consumer-protection and unfair-trade-practices statues.  In federal court, the cases will be “adjudicated in a
manner that takes into account the significant federal
regulatory and constitutional issues that are necessarily and
directly implicated,” the company said in papers filed
yesterday in U.S. District Court in Wilmington,  Delaware .  The U.S. separately sued New York-based S&P and McGraw-Hill
Feb. 4 in Los Angeles federal court for allegedly disregarding
the credit risks of mortgage  bonds  during the housing boom to
win business rating securities.  Consolidating the cases would make it easier for McGraw-
Hill to try to get all of the cases dismissed at once before any
trials begin, Larry Hamermesh, a professor of corporate and
business law at  Widener University , said in an interview.
Without moving to federal court, the company would have to win
separate dismissal motions in each state, he said.  ‘Strategic Move’  “This is a strategic move on the part of S&P, and we will
respond in a way that will best protect the interests of
Delawareans,” state Attorney General  Beau Biden  said in an e-
mailed statement.  The company is facing at least 17 state suits, in addition
to the District of Columbia case and the action by the U.S.
 Justice Department .  The Justice Department claims S&P downplayed and
disregarded the risk posed by mortgage-backed securities and
collateralized debt obligations when it issued inflated ratings
on the investments. S&P was trying to increase revenue and
market share and was favoring the interests of investment banks
that sold the securities at the expense of investors, the
government said.  S&P rated more than $2.8 trillion worth of residential
mortgage-backed securities and almost $1.2 trillion worth of
collateralized debt obligations from September 2004 to October
2007, according to the complaint. Federally insured financial
institutions suffered $5 billion in losses on CDOs rated by S&P,
the Justice Department said in a statement.  State Cases  According to McGraw-Hill's court filing in Delaware, the 
15 states covered by its effort to move cases to federal court 
are: Arizona, Arkansas, Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware,  Idaho , 
Illinois, Iowa, Maine, Missouri,  North Carolina , Pennsylvania, 
South Carolina, Tennessee and Washington. Those requests also 
cover the case filed by the District of Columbia.  A case brought by Mississippi is already in federal court. 
A case filed by  California  isn't being moved because it's 
related to a private lawuit seeking overlapping relief that is 
already being litigated in state court, according to the 
filing in Delaware.  The Delaware case is State of Delaware v. McGraw-Hill Cos.,
U.S. District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington). The U.S.
case is U.S. v. McGraw-Hill Cos., 13-cv-00779, U.S. District
Court, Central District of California (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  