-- Chavez’s 692% Bond Gain Seen Living On to Fidelity: Andes Credit
-- B y   B o r i s   K o r b y ,   Y e   X i e   a n d   D a n i e l l e   V e r b r i g g h e
-- 2013-03-06T22:27:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/chavez-s-692-bond-gain-seen-living-on-to-fidelity-andes-credit.html
If you liked the 692 percent bond
return  Hugo Chavez  delivered during his 14 years as Venezuelan
president,  Fidelity Investments  and Schroder Investment
Management Co. say you have nothing to fear from his successor.  Vice President Nicolas Maduro, who takes over as interim
president and is favored in polls to win emergency elections,
pledged to continue his socialist mentor’s plan upon announcing
yesterday that Chavez died after a two-year cancer battle.  His policies, which included currency controls and the
seizure of more than 1,000 companies, deterred many bond
investors and kept the nation’s overseas borrowing costs at an
 average 12.39 percent  during his presidency, or 3.78 percentage
points above emerging-market  government debt . While Venezuela
faces the risk of political infighting and social unrest,
Fidelity and Schroder say Maduro will follow his predecessor’s
lead and keep paying bondholders to ensure oil exports that fund
half the country’s budget. Chavez never missed a payment,
producing returns that more than doubled the regional average.  “Maduro would likely follow the previous model, and yields
will probably remain elevated unless there is a regime change,”
Luis Martins, a portfolio manager at Fidelity in  Boston  who
helps oversee $16.5 billion and has been investing in Venezuela
for almost 20 years, said in a telephone interview. “Investing
in Venezuela is a question of risk management. If these guys are
paying you -- in a world of zero  interest rates  -- 9 or 10
percent, very few things beat this.”  Army Dispatched  Maduro, who served as foreign minister for six years before
being appointed vice president in October, dispatched the army
and police to prevent outbreaks of violence after announcing
Chavez died in a Caracas hospital yesterday afternoon. Maduro
will take over as interim president until elections are
organized within 30 days, Foreign Minister Elias Jaua said last
night. Chavez tapped Maduro in his final public speech on Dec. 8
to represent his government in that vote.  Venezuela’s dollar-denominated bonds, which are rated four
levels below investment grade by  Standard & Poor’s , have rallied
26 percent over the past year, swelling their return to 692
percent since Chavez’s inauguration in 1999.  The gains, equal to an annualized 14.7 percent, topped
those from investment-grade countries  including Brazil , whose
debt returned 656 percent, and beat the 370 percent emerging-
market average over that period, according to data compiled by
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Bond Yields  While the government’s  average bond yields  have fallen to
9.06 percent from 10.91 percent a year ago, they still paid 4.39
percentage points above the average for emerging-market
sovereign dollar-denominated debt globally yesterday.  The yield on the government’s $4 billion of notes maturing
in 2027 rose 28 basis points, or 0.28 percentage point, to 9.26
percent at 5:24 p.m. in  New York . Credit-default swaps used to
protect Venezuelan debt against non-payment for five years rose
20 basis points to 661 basis points.  “The key thing is that Venezuela will keep servicing its
debt,” James Barrineau, director of  Latin America  at Schroder,
which manages $327 billion in assets, said in a telephone
interview from New York. “The last thing the Chavistas want is
to create a crisis in the economy. They will try to maintain
things the Chavez way as much as possible.”  Chavez unveiled his self-proclaimed socialist revolution
after turning the notoriety he gained from a failed 1992
military coup attempt into a landslide victory in elections six
years later. He rewrote the constitution, seized companies in
industries ranging from cattle ranching to steelmaking, imposed
caps on consumer prices and oversaw five currency devaluations.  Poverty Rate  While  government spending  fueled by a 10-fold surge in oil
helped cut Venezuela’s poverty rate in half as Chavez opened
government-run markets with subsidized appliances and handed out
homes to the poor, his currency controls and import restrictions
fanned the fastest inflation in the Americas and resulted in
shortages of basic goods from milk to eggs to toilet paper.  Chavez radicalized his agenda following a 2002 coup that
removed him from power for 48 hours and after a two-month
general strike later that year that paralyzed the oil industry,
the source of 95 percent of the country’s exports. He responded
by firing more than 18,000 employees at  Petroleos de Venezuela
SA , the state oil company, and replacing its board.  The strike caused the economy to shrink 27 percent in the
first quarter of 2003 while unemployment rose to 20 percent.
Chavez accused the U.S. of orchestrating the attempted overthrow
in 2002, and in 2006 he called then-President  George W. Bush  the
“devil” during a speech at the  United Nations .  Defending Qaddafi  Sanctions that prohibited Chavez from buying military
equipment from the U.S. prompted him to turn to Russia, China
and Iran as commercial partners. He defended Libyan dictator
 Muammar Qaddafi  as he fought a 2011 rebellion, and led a bloc of
Latin American countries including Cuba, Bolivia, Argentina and
Nicaragua in opposing U.S. policies in the region.  Venezuela bolsters its health system with thousands of
Cuban doctors and nurses who work in the country in exchange for
a daily supply of oil to the island nation.  “He left a country with an economic mess,” said Ricardo Hausmann, a professor at  Harvard University  in Cambridge,
 Massachusetts , who served as planning minister for Carlos Andres Perez, the president Chavez tried to topple in his coup attempt.
“This country is not in a steady state at the moment. It’s in
an explosive spiral. There’s nothing suggesting to me that they
have a clear idea how to manage this crisis. The bubble has
burst.”  Unrest Risk  The country faces the risk of political infighting and
social unrest, according to analysts including Peter Hakim,
president of the  Inter-American Dialogue  in  Washington , and
 Stephen Johnson , former director of the Americas Program at the
Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington.  Former National Assembly President Fernando Soto Rojas said
last night that  Diosdado Cabello , the country’s current national
assembly leader, must be sworn in as interim president, state
news channel Telesur reported. Jaua, the foreign minister, said
less than two hours later that Maduro would serve that role.  Chavez returned to Caracas in early December from Cuba,
where he was receiving cancer treatment, to announce he was to
undergo his fourth operation in 18 months and to make clear he
wanted Maduro, a 50-year-old former union leader and bus driver,
to succeed him.  ‘Firm Opinion’  “There is risk in this process that you can’t deny,”
Chavez said during a late-night address from the presidential
palace, flanked by Cabello, who took part in the 1992 coup
attempt, and Maduro. “It’s my firm opinion, clear like a full
moon, irrevocable, absolute, total, that in a scenario that
would oblige new presidential elections that you should elect
 Nicolas Maduro .”  Maduro took over as vice president following Chavez’s re-
election victory over opposition candidate Henrique Capriles in
October. Capriles, who has proposed opening up the oil industry
and dismantling currency controls, urged the government to
respect the constitution last night.  A Hinterlaces Poll done between Feb. 16 and Feb. 23 found
50 percent of Venezuelans would support Maduro while 36 percent
would support Capriles, the governor of Miranda state, in
emergency elections. Hinterlaces interviewed 900 people for the
poll, which had a margin of error of 3 percentage points.  Maduro pledged to “take up the legacy of Chavez, his plan,
his challenges” as he sobbed on state television yesterday.
Hours earlier, Maduro called for an investigation into a theory
that Chavez’s enemies infected him with cancer as he expelled
U.S. embassy officials from the country.  Accusing U.S.  In December 2011, Chavez said that the U.S. may be behind a
“very strange” bout of cancer affecting him and other South
American leaders who were aligned with him.  While the rhetoric is unconventional, the government has to
keep servicing foreign obligations to maintain access to
international credit markets and prevent investors from trying
to seize the country’s oil shipments, according to Fidelity’s
Martins. PDVSA, as the state oil company is known, owns Houston-
based Citgo Petroleum Corp.  “Major  oil companies  need access to  capital markets ,”
Martins said. “Defaulting would not be in their best interests
and debt investors are pretty much at the top of the pecking
order, no matter who’s in power.‬”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Korby in New York at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net ;
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Verbrigghe in New York at 
 dverbrigghe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tsang at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  