-- Chavez Death ‘Fundamental Change’ for Region, Farnsworth Says
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2013-03-06T00:34:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/chavez-death-fundamental-change-for-region-farnsworth-says.html
Eric Farnsworth , vice president of
the Council of the Americas, a New York-based business
organization, comments on the death of Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez . Farnsworth, who also worked on  Latin America  issues at
the U.S. State Department under President  Bill Clinton , spoke in
a telephone interview from Austin,  Texas .  On the regional implications:  “It’s huge. It’s going to fundamentally change hemispheric
politics, certainly in Venezuela, but generally. Chavez has been
such a symbol for much of the region, not just countries like
Ecuador and  Bolivia  but to people in other countries.”  “From a U.S. perspective it’s going to require a nuanced
and sophisticated response.”  On the days ahead:  “The best-case scenario is that you have an election
process that is contested fairly and freely and according to
generally-accepted democratic principles. The real question is
can it be conducted fairly?”  “The worst-case scenario would be a fight for influence
either within the Chavista movement or with its opponents.”  On Vice President Nicolas Maduro:  “The Chavez supporters are going to rally around Maduro.
They’re very concerned about divisions within the movement. The
opposition has their hands full. They’re going to need to rally
around their own standard-bearer. Thirty days is not a lot of
time” before the election mandated by  Venezuela ’s constitution.  “The real concern is going to be the longer term. Assuming
he’s elected, will Maduro be seen as a legitimately elected
president with the authority to govern in Venezuela?”  On the expulsion today of two U.S. officials accused of plotting
against Chavez’s government:  “Maduro is already out there trying to intensify the idea
of a bogeyman. It’s a tried and true strategy for leaders in
Latin America trying to bolster support domestically that might
otherwise be tenuous.”  “Maduro doesn’t have anything here except the ‘dedazo’ by
Chavez,” Farnsworth said, referring to Chavez’s decision to
name Maduro as his successor in December. “Someone within that
context trying to build his own popular base finds it very
convenient to have his own bogeyman he can rally against.”  “Maduro if anything is actually going to tighten the
screws on the U.S. relationship. He needs to be seen as standing
up to gringo even if the gringo isn’t doing anything. It’s a way
to rally his base and build his own political support.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eric Martin  in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 