-- Chesf Brings First Wind Farms Online, Struggles With Connections
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2013-03-06T19:39:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/chesf-brings-first-wind-farms-online-struggles-with-connections.html
Cia. Hidro Eletrica do  Sao
Francisco , a unit of  Brazil ’s state-controlled power company
 Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA (ELET6) , has started producing power
from its first wind farms two months behind schedule.  One-third of the 90 megawatts of turbines at its Sao Pedro
do Lago, Pedra Branca and Sete Gameleiras projects are operating
and the rest will come online by the end of the month, according
to Ruy Barbosa Pinto, superintendent of generation and
construction projects at the Recife, Brazil-based company.  The company, which owns 49 percent of the projects, will
have to make up for the undelivered electricity by buying power
on the  spot market  after  Siemens AG (SIE)  furnished equipment linking
the projects to the grid in February, seven months late, Pinto
said by telephone today. Chesf, as the company is known, is also
late connecting about 620 megawatts of other companies’ wind
farms in the same region.  The spot price for electricity in the first three months of
the year was “slightly higher” than the price at which Chesf
had agreed to sell power from its projects.  The projects were due to start selling energy on Jan. 1,
electricity trading board Camara de Comercializacao de Energia
Eletrica said on its  website . They sold power at 132.50 reais
($67.41) a megawatt-hour in a government-organized auction for
new power capacity in 2010.  Brennand Energia SA owns the remaining 51 percent of the
projects, Chesf said on its  website.   Chesf failed to build grid connections for 26 wind farms in
the northeast before a May deadline, Andre Pepitone da Nobrega,
director of the country’s power regulator Agencia Nacional de
Energia Eletrica, said Feb. 26. They are expected to be
connected by the end of the year.  A spokeswoman for Siemens didn’t immediately answer
inquiries by phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  