-- China Weighs Risks to $50 Billion Investment After Chavez
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-06T09:01:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/china-weighs-risks-to-50-billion-investment-after-chavez-death.html
Chinese firms are assessing the risk
that Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez ’s death poses to
investments worth at least $50 billion, after 14 years of closer
ties between the two countries.  China Development Bank  Corp., which has lent  Venezuela  more
than $40 billion since 2008, has contingency plans in place, Yao Zhongmin, head of the bank’s supervisory board, said in an
interview today. State-owned conglomerate Citic Group Corp. is
also weighing the risks, Chairman Chang Zhenming said.  State-owned Chinese firms have won contracts to build
railroads, housing and power stations since Chavez took power in
1999 and nationalized more than 1,000 companies or their assets.
The terms of some of the deals may face new scrutiny should
Venezuela’s opposition wins elections required to be held within
30 days.  “If you do get an opposition candidate that wins there
could be more information out there about previous deals that
will be very uncomfortable,” said Matt Ferchen, a scholar at
the Carnegie-Tsinghua Center for Global Policy in Beijing.
“That could be politically unnerving but also reason for
leverage to rework some of the deals.”  Chavez died yesterday at age 58 of cancer. Since he
announced his illness in June 2011, investors have speculated
that his departure could pave the way for the opposition to win
power and introduce more market-friendly policies.  Dollar Bonds  Chavez was a “great friend of  China ,” Foreign Ministry
spokeswoman Hua Chunying said at a briefing today in Beijing,
adding that China’s top leaders sent their condolences over his
death. “China cherishes the two countries’ friendship and would
like to work with Venezuela to constantly develop their
strategic partnership,” she said.  Moody’s Investors Service rates Venezuelan long-term
foreign-currency debt B2, or five levels below investment grade,
the same as Honduras and  Cambodia .  Led by China Development Bank, the world’s largest policy
lender, China has made Venezuela the main focus of its global
oil-for-loans program, in which loans were repaid with oil
shipments. Some of the biggest state-owned companies, including
Citic Group, China Railway Group and Sinohydro Corp. won more
than $11 billion in contracts to build and supply equipment for
infrastructure, according to data  compiled by  Bloomberg.  “As long as Venezuela maintains stable oil exports to
China, then the risks to China’s loans are small,” said Sun
Hongbo, an associate professor at the Institute of Latin
American Studies, part of the  Chinese Academy of Social
Sciences . “No matter who wins the presidential election, China
will continue to be a strategic partner for Venezuela.”  Gold Mines  Venezuela became the Americas’ largest recipient of Chinese
credit under Chavez, as private lenders were driven away by the
nationalization of more than 1,000 companies as well as currency
and price controls.  While the Venezuelan government’s average  bond yields  have
fallen to 9.06 percent from 10.91 percent a year ago, they still
paid 4.39 percentage points above the average for emerging-
market sovereign dollar-denominated debt globally yesterday.  CDB has a contingency plan in place to account for risks
associated with Chavez’s death, Yao said, without elaborating.  Citic, a state-owned conglomerate that runs banks,
brokerages and develops real estate, is building as much as $3
billion in housing in Venezuela.  Venezuelan Oil Minister  Rafael Ramirez  in January said the
country was in talks with Citic to develop gold mines. Chang
said Citic was undertaking a feasibility study for the mine in
Venezuela and had not yet invested.  “I think no matter who is the president, they will still
need to construct houses,” he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  