-- China Increases Scrutiny on Overseas Deals, National Gold Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-06T08:42:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/china-increases-scrutiny-on-overseas-deals-national-gold-says.html
China  National Gold Group Corp., the
nation’s biggest producer of the precious metal, said the
government has tightened scrutiny on overseas deals.  The government asks for risk-assessment reports for
overseas projects, President Sun Zhaoxue said today in an
interview during the National People’s Congress in Beijing. The
state-owned Asset Supervision and Administration Commission, or
Sasac, which hadn’t previously studied those reports, is now
asking to review them, he said.  “Chinese state-owned enterprises shouldn’t rush for
overseas deals before we get well prepared for risk
prevention,” said Sun. “We shouldn’t leave things to chance as
we go overseas. We can’t afford the risks.”  Sun’s comments come two months after  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) ,
the world’s biggest producer, ended talks with Beijing-based
China National Gold over the sale of its African unit. Chinese
companies are facing obstacles in foreign transactions 
including cultural gaps and environmental barriers, Sun said.  “The Chinese government has attached greater importance to
the possible risks that lie in overseas deals,” said Sun, also
a former vice president of Aluminum Corp. of China., the
nation’s biggest producer of the lightweight metal.  China National is studying an acquisition in  South Africa ,
and is also targeting central Asia and  Southeast Asia , he said.  Gold for immediate delivery, down 5.9 percent this year as
the recovery in the U.S. economy gathers momentum, traded at
$1,577.22 an ounce at 3:58 p.m. in  Singapore . The metal may
trade between $1,550 and $1,750 an ounce this year, with prices
mostly in the range from $1,600 to $1,650 an ounce, Sun said.  China should build gold reserves even as prices may drop,
Sun said. This is because “over the long run, the dollar has
big chances to drop,” he said.  The  Bank of Korea  joined Russia and Kazakhstan in boosting
gold holdings even as prices fell. The BOK added 20 metric tons
in February, raising its bullion reserves by 24 percent to 104.4
tons, it said today.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen  Yuan  in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  