-- China Backing Away From Carbon Tax Start in 2013, Official Says
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a a s
-- 2013-03-06T09:33:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/china-backing-away-from-carbon-tax-start-in-2013-official-says.html
China will wait until after this
year to introduce a tax on carbon, deferring to concern that
economic growth might suffer, a government researcher said.  The nation eventually expects to introduce a levy of 5  yuan 
to 10 yuan (80 cents to $1.61) per ton of carbon,  Jia Kang , head
of research at the Ministry of Finance, said in Beijing
yesterday. The tax, proposed in China’s latest five-year plan,
was intended to apply to  carbon emissions  from fossil fuels,
KPMG International said in a May 2011 report.  The carbon tax is “still in internal discussions,” as
there is “obvious opposition,” Jia said without identifying
the opponents.  The delay comes just as China, the world’s biggest emitter,
steps up effort to reduce  greenhouse gases  and improve energy
efficiency. The government will cut emissions and energy use per
unit of gross domestic product by at least 3.7 percent in 2013,
the National Development and Reform Commission said yesterday.
The previous target was 3.5 percent.  China is proceeding with plans to set up seven pilot carbon
trading programs in Beijing, Shanghai, Shenzhen, Guangdong,
Tianjin, Chongqing and Hubei. The system will regulate 800
million to 1 billion tons of emissions by 2015, making it the
world’s biggest cap-and-trade program after the one in Europe,
according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Senators  Barbara Boxer , a Democrat from California, and
 Bernie Sanders , an independent from Vermont, unveiled a climate-
change plan last month that would set an initial carbon fee of
$20 a ton on polluters, including manufacturers and producers of
oil and natural gas.  A carbon tax starting at 20 yuan was the minimum needed to
help reduce emissions, according to 2009  paper  from researchers
at the Chinese Academy for Environmental Planning and the Energy
Research Institute of the NDRC.  China first said it would implement an environmental tax in
2011, when the country released its 12th Five Year Plan, a list
of policies to be carried out by 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Haas in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhaas7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  