-- China Money-Market Rate Declines on Signs of Increasing Inflows
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2013-03-06T02:44:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/china-money-market-rate-declines-on-signs-of-increasing-inflows.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
fell for a third day after a report signaled a pickup in capital
inflows and the central bank gauged demand for cash.  The rate touched a one-week low after data published by the
People’s Bank of China showed local banks bought a record net
684 billion  yuan  ($110 billion) of foreign currencies in
January, an indication of larger inflows. The PBOC gauged demand
for a sale of 14-day reverse-repurchase contracts tomorrow,
according to a trader at a primary dealer required to bid at the
auctions. It also asked banks to submit orders for 28-day
 repurchase agreements , the trader said.  “We have seen a return of capital inflows into the
market,” said Tommy Xie, a China economist at Oversea-Chinese
Banking Corp. in  Singapore . “The PBOC remains flexible in
managing liquidity and definitely doesn’t have a tightening
bias, at least for this quarter.”  The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, fell 19 basis points, or 0.19 percentage
points, to 3 percent as of 9:49 a.m. in  Shanghai , according to a
weighted average rate compiled by the National Interbank Funding
Center. It reached 2.98 percent earlier, the lowest level since
Feb. 20.  The PBOC refrained from injecting or withdrawing cash from
the banking system yesterday, after absorbing 915 billion yuan
from markets since March 8.  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, fell two basis
points to 3.24 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The yield on the 2.81 percent government bonds due January
2014 dropped two basis points to 2.74 percent, according to the
Interbank Funding Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  