-- China Should Expand Subsidies to Add Hybrids, Geely Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-06T10:19:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/china-should-expand-subsidies-to-add-hybrids-geely-s-li-says.html
China , lagging behind its target to
put electric vehicles on roads, should expand its subsidy
program to include other types of fuel-efficient cars such as
hybrids, according to Zhejiang Geely Holding Group Co.  “The criteria to qualify for subsidies should be based on
the fuel consumption and emissions of the vehicle, instead of
what kind of technology they use,”  Li Shufu , chairman of
Zhejiang Geely, which owns Volvo Car Corp., told reporters today
at the  Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference  in
Beijing. “The government should expand subsidies to include
more types of vehicles, including all sorts of hybrids.”  Li’s comments come as automakers wait for the new central
government under incoming Premier  Li Keqiang  to introduce a plan
to promote alternative-energy vehicles and alleviate pollution.
Including gasoline-electric vehicles under a subsidy program
would be a boon for companies such as  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , maker
of the Prius hybrid.  “There’s a lot of uncertainty around the political
transition,”  Max Warburton , a Singapore-based auto analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., said in a phone interview. “You’ve
had a bit of a battle of personality at the top of the Chinese
government, between pro-electric vehicle and electric-vehicle
skeptics. It’s not quite clear who’s going to be in charge in a
few months’ time.”  Support Policy  The Beijing municipal government may unveil policies in the
next two months to benefit electric vehicles, including fiscal
support and exemption from the city’s lottery for license
plates, according to Xu Heyi, chairman of Beijing Automotive
Group Co.  Hybrid vehicles shouldn’t be included in the government
subsidy plan as it will be “hard to manage,” he said in an
interview at the National People’s Congress in the capital.  A three-year trial program that ended last year provided
subsidies of as much as 60,000  yuan  ($9,650) for electric
vehicles and 50,000 yuan for plug-in hybrids. Automakers sold a
combined 12,791 such vehicles in 2012, according to Bloomberg
New Energy Finance, lagging behind the central government’s
target for 500,000 units in cumulative sales by 2015 and 5
million by 2020.  The China Association of Automobile Manufacturers has
suggested to the central government to increase the number of
trial cities to help promote the development of alternative-
energy vehicles, according to Ye Shengji, a deputy secretary
general of the auto group.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net ;
Alexandra Ho in Shanghai at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  