-- China Agrees to Sanctions Targeting N. Korean Diplomats
-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 2013-03-06T01:39:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/china-agrees-to-additional-un-sanctions-on-north-korea.html
North Korea and its ruling elite are
facing additional sanctions after the U.S. and  China  agreed on a
United Nations Security Council resolution punishing the
Communist nation for its February nuclear test explosion.  U.S. Ambassador to the UN Susan Rice announced the
agreement yesterday after a meeting of the council, which plans
to adopt the measure with a vote later this week.  Russia , which
like China has veto-power, also supports the sanctions, Russian
UN Ambassador Vitaly Churkin said in comments reported by the
RIA news agency.  The new measures target an array of regime activities
including “illicit” actions by its diplomats and bulk
transfers of cash. The restrictions are aimed at halting the
North’s imports of technology for its weapons programs as well
as its ability to raise cash by selling its nuclear, missile and
military technology.  “Those sanctions will bite, but the key is how far China
is willing to go to implement them -- always a problem,”
Michael Green, senior vice president for Asia at the Center for
Strategic and International Studies in  Washington , wrote in an
e-mail. “Still, this is better than the usual Security Council
‘round up the usual suspects’ response we have generally seen in
the past.”  China is North Korea’s closest ally and its support was
necessary for approval of additional UN sanctions. North Korea
held its nuclear test despite pressure from China not to do so.  ‘Next Level’  The resolution “takes UN sanctions imposed on North Korea
to the next level,” Rice told reporters at the UN. “The
commitment to take further significant measures in the event of
further tests will demonstrate clearly to North Korea the cost
of its provocations.”  The sanctions cover actions from tightening scrutiny of
North Korean diplomats and business agents to blocking transfers
of luxury items for the regime’s elite, such as racing cars,
yachts and jewelry containing pearls or gems, according to a
copy of the resolution obtained by Bloomberg News.  The measure also includes provisions on financial
transactions, cargo inspections, aircraft movements, and a
commitment to take “further significant measures” if North
Korea conducts more nuclear or missile tests in violation of
council prohibitions.  The sanctions would be some of the toughest ever imposed by
the UN policymaking body, according to a diplomat who asked not
to be identified because the resolution hasn’t been adopted.  North Korean Threat  North Korea said yesterday it may cancel the 1953 cease-
fire that ended the Korean War, citing the sanctions effort as
well as U.S.-South Korean joint military drills, according to a
statement carried by the official Korean Central News Agency.  The North Korean military will suspend its activities at
Panmunjom truce village at the demilitarized zone separating
North and South Korea, and shut off phone line with U.S. forces
stationed in the South, the news agency said, citing an
unidentified military spokesman.  As the North’s largest neighbor, China’s support is
critical for enforcing the sanctions, and the Chinese are likely
to take a hard line, said Patrick Cronin, senior director of the
Asia-Pacific Security Program at the Center for a New American
Security in Washington.  “The nuclear test, coupled with the successful three-stage
rocket tests gives North Korea real potential to build a nuclear
ICBM,” an intercontinental ballistic missile, “causing all the
countries in the region to worry about the consequences,”
Cronin said in an interview.  Chinese Message  China’s UN Ambassador Li Baodong said he was pleased with
the result of the Security Council talks, which he said made
clear to North Korea that the international community wants to
remove nuclear arms from the Korean peninsula and see an end to
the North’s nuclear weapons and ballistic missile programs.  “A strong signal must be sent out that a nuclear test is
against the will of the international community,” Li said after
the council session. “They have got to bring an end to that
program.”  China is growing increasingly concerned by both the
independent behavior of the country’s new ruler, 30-year-old Kim Jong Un, and by fears that instability in North Korea may lead
to a flood of refugees across the border into China, said Dean
Cheng, a research fellow at the Heritage Foundation in
Washington.  “China is frustrated and is sending a signal that Kim Jong
Un has gone too far,” Cheng said in an interview.  ‘Legitimate Dialogue’  After months of resisting new sanctions on North Korea,
China may have agreed to the sanctions as part of a push for the
U.S. to grant it new diplomatic respect in the region, as China
seeks to expand its economic and political influence while
keeping peace with neighboring South Korea and  Japan , said
Cronin.  In Doha, U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry called for
North Korea’s Kim to take “responsible actions for peace”
rather than make threats.  “The world would be better served if he would direct his
people, and make a decision himself, to engage in a legitimate
dialogue in legitimate negotiations in order to resolve not just
American concerns, but the concerns of the Japanese, the South
Koreans, the Russians and everybody in the region,” Kerry said
yesterday at a news conference.  “We will continue to do what is necessary to defend our
nation and the region, together with our allies, but our
preference is not to brandish threats at each other,” Kerry
said. “It is to get to the table and negotiate a peaceful
resolution.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter S. Green in  New York  at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  