-- China’s Stocks Rise for Second Day, Led by Developers
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-03-06T07:58:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/china-s-stock-futures-rise-signaling-gains-for-benchmark-index.html
China’s stocks  posted the biggest
two-day gain in seven weeks as the nation’s economic prospects
spurred fund inflows. ZTE Corp. led a rally for phone companies,
while property developers and technology shares advanced.  China Vanke Co. led a two-day gain for real-estate
companies after an industry gauge plunged the most in almost
five years on March 4. ZTE, a phone-equipment maker, jumped 10
percent after a report on approval for fourth-generation service
spurred speculation carriers will boost spending. Chinese money-
market rates slid and the yuan climbed near a 19-year high after
data showed local banks bought a record net amount of foreign
currencies in January, an indication of larger inflows.  The  Shanghai Composite Index  rose 0.9 percent to 2,347.18
at the close. The gauge gained 2.3 percent yesterday as the
government announced higher fiscal spending targets during the
first day of the National People’s Congress. The  CSI 300 Index 
added 1 percent to 2,650.20. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises
Index  climbed 1.8 percent.  “Investors may have expectations for some reforms after
the NPC,”  Liu Guangming , an analyst at Dongxing Securities Co.,
said today from Beijing. “For now the economy is quite stable,
at least in the first half.”  The Shanghai gauge is up 3.4 percent this year and trades
for 9.7 times projected 12-month earnings, compared with the
MSCI Emerging-Market Index’s 10.3 times, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. show. Trading volumes were 10 percent
above the 30-day average, data show.  The government announced yesterday it would keep its
economic growth target of 7.5 percent unchanged from 2012 while
projecting a 10 percent jump in fiscal spending to fund areas
such as health care. The economy expanded 7.8 percent last year,
the weakest pace since 1999.  Fund Flows  The benchmark money rate touched a one-week low today after
data published by the People’s Bank of China showed local banks
bought a net 684 billion yuan ($110 billion) of foreign
currencies in January, an indication of larger inflows. The yuan
rose to within 0.1 percent of a 19-year high.  “The surge in forex purchases is due largely to a pent-up
demand for renminbi with a rebound of confidence in renminbi and
the Chinese economy,”  Ting Lu , China economist at Bank of
America Corp., wrote in a note today.  Shanghai’s property gauge rose 1 percent, gaining for a
second day after plunging 9.3 percent on March 4 on property
curbs including a 20 percent tax on profits from sales. Vanke,
the biggest developer, gained 2.4 percent to 11.15 yuan, while
rival Poly Real Estate Group Co. rose 0.9 percent to 11.35 yuan.  “Property shares are cheap now after slumping heavily,”
says  Tang Yonggang , analyst at Hongyuan Securities Co. in
Beijing. The Shanghai property measure trades at 9.89 times
reported profit, compared with a five-year average of 18.7
times, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Money Supply  People’s Bank of China Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said
yesterday at the NPC that China’s target for 13 percent M2
growth this year means authorities don’t want money supply to
grow too quickly. That compares with last year’s increase of
13.8 percent.  ZTE, the second-largest maker of telephone equipment,
jumped 10 percent to 10.86 yuan in Shenzhen and 8.3 percent to
HK$14.06 in Hong Kong. The company said it’s collaborating with
Intel Corp. on next-generation smartphones.  China may issue licenses for fourth-generation wireless
service this year with the exact timing to be determined by the
expansion of a trial being conducted by China Mobile
Communications Corp., China Securities Journal reported today,
citing Minister of Industry and Information Technology Miao Wei.  Telecom, Technology  Goertek Inc., a supplier to Apple Inc., led a rally for
technology companies, rising 6.2 percent to 44.50 yuan. Gains
for Chinese technology stocks has been spurred by touch-notebook
growth prospects this year, Capital Securities analyst Chen Qi
said yesterday.  The iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund, the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., advanced 0.8 percent
yesterday. The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index  rose 1.2 percent in
New York, with Sohu.com Inc., owner of China’s second-largest
online video website, soaring 12 percent after the South China
Morning Post reported Sohu is talking to investment banks about
taking the company private.  Sohu said today it isn’t talking to investment banks and
private equity funds about a possible plan to take the company
private or delist its common stock from the Nasdaq.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  