-- Chow Tai Fook Says Demand for Cheapest Trinkets Boosting Margins
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2013-03-06T16:09:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/chow-tai-fook-says-demand-for-cheapest-trinkets-boosting-margins.html
Chow Tai Fook Jewelry Group Ltd. (1929) , a
Hong Kong-based chain with more revenue than Tiffany & Co., said
demand for its cheapest items is growing among young consumers,
helping boost earnings as the global economy struggles.  Over the past six months, “our average selling price is
getting lower but we’re selling more pieces,” Alan Chan,
director of group branding, said this week in an interview in
Paris. Revenue is improving, he said, citing a pickup in demand
for semi-precious stones. “This is better for margins.”  Young consumers are buying more jewelry, either as gifts
for themselves or friends, attracted by Chow Tai Fook’s more
colorful lower-value items, he said, drawing a contrast with
business-gift giving or buying trinkets as an investment.
Previously, gold accounted for about 55 percent of the
retailer’s sales, Chan said.  “We are very excited because if we can sell more jewelry
items, whether diamond, pearls or precious stones, it’s better
for us,” the executive said March 5 at an event to promote
Chinese fashion, art, dance and photography during Paris fashion
week.  Luxury-goods companies are increasingly focused on
expansion in jewelry as a way to lure more customers. Swatch
Group AG this year bought Harry Winston Diamond Corp.’s watch
and jewelry unit, and PPR SA and Prada SpA are said to be among
companies interested in acquiring Pomellato SpA, an Italian
company known for its stacking rings.  E-commerce sales grew three times as fast in the first six
months of the fiscal year compared to the same period a year
earlier, Chan said. The pace of growth via the channel has been
the same in the second half of the year ending March 31, he
said.  Fiscal fourth-quarter sales are in line with expectations,
Chan also said. The jeweler, controlled by Hong Kong billionaire
 Cheng Yu Tung , said in January it expects revenue growth in the
period to be stable.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Roberts in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  