-- McIlroy Says Self-Imposed Pressure Led to Quitting Honda Golf
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-03-06T16:47:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/mcilroy-says-self-imposed-pressure-led-to-quitting-honda-golf.html
Rory McIlroy plans to smile more
after what he called mounting pressure he put on himself led to
a mid-round walkoff at last week’s Honda Classic.  “Everybody makes mistakes,” McIlroy said today during a
televised press conference in Miami, site of this week’s
Cadillac Championship. “I’m 23 years old. I’m still learning. I
regret what I did. It’s over now and it won’t happen again.”  The world’s No. 1-ranked golfer was 7-over par through
eight holes and had just hit his second shot of the ninth into
the water on March 1 at the PGA National course in  Palm Beach
Gardens ,  Florida , when he informed playing partners Ernie Els
and  Mark Wilson  that he was quitting the round.  McIlroy said he had been putting a lot of pressure on
himself to have a strong start to 2013 after winning four events
last season, including his second major title at the  PGA
Championship  in August.  Before withdrawing from the Honda event after 26 holes,
McIlroy missed the cut at the Abu Dhabi HSBC Golf Championship
with rounds of 75-75 and was eliminated in the first round of
the U.S. PGA Tour’s Match Play Championship.  “I wanted to prove to myself that 2011 and 2012 were good
years,” he said. “I’ve been putting so much pressure on
myself. I’ve been working so hard and not getting much out of
it. I just sort of let it all get to me.”  This week’s World Golf Championship tournament features a
limited field of the top 65 players, based on the Official World
Golf Ranking and other performance criteria. The purse is $8.8
million, including $1.4 million for the winner, with no cut for
weekend play and a paycheck for everyone who completes the four
rounds.  Whole Tooth  McIlroy, who was the defending champion at the Honda
Classic, blamed his withdrawal at the time on pain from an
impacted wisdom tooth. He said he has been taking a painkiller
and plans to have the tooth extracted by his dentist back home
in  Northern Ireland  after the U.S. Open in June.  “My tooth was bothering me, but it wasn’t bothering me
enough to quit,” he said today. “I should have stayed out
there and tried to shoot the best score possible.”  McIlroy said his early season problems were unrelated to
his equipment change to Nike balls and clubs from Titleist.  “It’s purely the swing,” he said. “The equipment is
fantastic. I have no problems at all. When I make a good swing,
the ball goes where I want it to, so I know it’s not that.”  Wozniacki Role  He also denied that his Honda withdrawal had anything to do
with his relationship with tennis player  Caroline Wozniacki , who
lost to 186th-ranked Wang Qiang in the first round of the
Malaysian Open a day before he quit the Honda.  “Just because I had a bad day on the golf course and
Caroline loses a match in  Malaysia , it doesn’t mean we’re
breaking up,” he said.  His issues are more directly related to struggles with his
swing and his attitude, McIlroy said.  “I started playing this game because I love it,” he said.
“I have to remember that and go out there and enjoy myself and
smile more. I learned that when the going gets tough, I’ve got
to stick in there more and grind it out. There’s no excuse for
quitting.”  The on-course meltdown followed McIlroy’s 2011 Masters
Tournament performance, where he held a four-shot leading before
a final-round 80 left him in 15th place. It was the highest
final round of any third-round leader in Masters history.  McIlroy rebounded to win the  U.S. Open  two months later for
his first major title. He said his struggles at last week’s
event may have a similar impact on his game.  “I think in the long run, (withdrawing) will be a blessing
in disguise,” he said. “It sort of released a valve. It’s not
life or death out there, it’s just a game. I had sort of lost
sight of that this year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  