-- Citadel Securities Cuts Almost 10% of Employees After Review
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2013-03-06T20:34:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/citadel-securities-cuts-almost-10-of-employees-after-review-1-.html
Citadel Securities, a unit of
Citadel LLC in  Chicago , has fired about 10 percent of its staff.  Matt Cushman, a senior managing director who joined the
firm in 2011 from Knight Capital Group Inc., was among more than
two dozen people who lost their jobs, including five last week,
according to a person with direct knowledge of the cuts who
asked not to be named because the matter is private. The
reductions affected between 25 and 30 people,  Katie Spring , a
spokeswoman for the company, said by phone. The unit now has
about 275 employees, she said.  “We significantly expanded our product offerings over the
last year and will continue to do so through innovation,
efficiency and strong operating capabilities,” Spring said.  Automated trading firms including Getco LLC in Chicago and
Jersey City, New Jersey-based Knight have cut staff in the last
year as U.S. equity volume declined for the third year in a row.
A daily  average  of about 6.4 billion shares changed hands in the
U.S. in 2012 compared with almost 9.8 billion in 2009, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Eladian Partners LLC, an
automated trading company in New York that started in 2011,
closed its operations in October because of market conditions.  Quantitative Trading  Cushman was hired by Citadel, the $14 billion hedge fund
run by Ken Griffin, to lead a new effort in quantitative trading
with Jamil Nazarali, who is head of Citadel Execution Services.
Both left  Knight (KCG)  in February 2011 and joined Citadel in
September that year. Nazarali remains head of the unit.  The reductions were primarily in technology and support
staff and occurred in offices in New York, Chicago and Palo
Alto,  California , according to the person. The cuts were made to
consolidate geographic and business teams, Spring said.  Citadel Securities trades about 14 percent of U.S. equities
volume and 19 percent of options, according to data on its
 website . The group services retail brokerages and institutional
investors. It executes orders for individuals sent by securities
firms including  TD Ameritrade Holding Corp. , a private  wealth
management group  in JPMorgan Chase & Co., and  Prudential
Investment Management Services LLC  and offers algorithms or
trading strategies to asset managers and other clients.  The unit also conducts options market making and automated
proprietary trading.  Getco Staff  Getco, which negotiated a takeover of Knight in December,
cut about 40 jobs, or almost 10 percent of its employees, last
June. It agreed to buy Knight in a $1.4 billion deal after the
Jersey City, New Jersey-based market maker lost more than $450
million when computers generated a flood of erroneous orders in
about 150 stocks in August.  Knight said last month that it would cut 5 percent of its
workforce as it combines sales teams and discontinues its
clearing business. The company reported an 84 percent decline in
fourth-quarter earnings after trading slowed and stock-price
swings narrowed. It had 1,524 employees at the end of 2012.  High-frequency stock trading revenue declined to $1.8
billion in 2012 from $7.2 billion at its peak in 2009, according
to a January report from research firm Tabb Group LLC. Revenue
may increase by about 22 percent to $2.2 billion this year as
volume in U.S. equity markets rebounds, the report said. Trading
may increase by 6 percent this year, Adam Sussman, director of
research, predicted in the report.  Getco said last month that profit plunged in 2012 as stock-
market volume dropped and volatility evaporated. Net income fell
82 percent to $24.6 million in the nine months ended Sept. 30,
compared with $134.8 million a year ago, according to a
regulatory filing. Revenue decreased 41 percent to $425.3
million, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael P. Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net  