-- Citigroup Said to Stop Submissions for Two Key Rates in Malaysia
-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n   a n d   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2013-03-06T03:33:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/citigroup-said-to-stop-submissions-for-two-key-rates-in-malaysia.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-largest
U.S. bank, stopped contributing to two benchmark rates set in
 Malaysia , two people with knowledge of the matter said.  The lender’s submissions for Malaysian ringgit interest
rate swaps and the ringgit spot reference rate against the
dollar were halted last week, said the people, who asked not to
be identified as they aren’t authorized to speak publicly on the
matter.  Citigroup’s withdrawal follows similar halts by HSBC
Holdings Plc, UBS AG and other global banks from rate-setting
panels as regulators worldwide consider litigation and fines in
response to rigging scandals. Barclays Plc, UBS and Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc have already been penalized about $2.5
billion for manipulating London Interbank Offered Rates.  James Griffiths, a Hong Kong-based spokesman for Citigroup,
declined to comment on the lender’s exit. The New York-based
bank continues to contribute to the Kuala Lumpur Interbank
Offered Rate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The ringgit swap and exchange rates are used by traders for
hedging against interest rate and currency movements and
speculating on their direction. Excluding Citigroup, 11 banks
now contribute to fixing the rates daily, the data show.  Submissions Wane  Citigroup in September said it withdrew from the panel of
lenders that sets the euro interbank offered rate, citing a
dearth of trades between banks in the region. Rabobank
International, the biggest Dutch savings bank, exited the panel
in January, while Deutsche Bank AG said in February that it
would end participation in some Euribor rates.  The British Bankers’ Association, the lobby group that
oversees Libor, is cutting currencies and maturities included in
the benchmark where there is insufficient trading data to
estimate borrowing costs accurately.  The BBA will stop quoting rates in Australian, New Zealand
and Canadian dollars as well as Danish and Swedish currencies by
June. The group will stop publishing interim maturities, such as
the two-week, four-month, and eight-month tenors for all
currencies at the end of May.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net ;
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  