-- Closing 12% of Philadelphia Schools Creates Winners: Muni Credit
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2013-03-06T01:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/closing-12-of-philadelphia-schools-creates-winners-muni-credit.html
The Philadelphia school Kisha
Javis’s daughter attends is among buildings that may close in
June as the eighth-biggest U.S. district tackles deficits.
Investors have backed the fiscal plan, pushing the district’s
municipal bonds to a three-month high.  Officials facing a $1.35 billion spending gap over five
years are set to vote tomorrow on a proposal to shut almost 12
percent of Philadelphia’s public schools. Javis and other
parents say the district should find other ways to fix its
finances.  “It’s not fair,” Javis, 27, said as she walked 5-year-
old Kimyni home from kindergarten at  Thomas M. Peirce School .
“They need to step up.”  In the $3.7 trillion municipal market, the prospect of
reduced spending has led buyers to push relative borrowing costs
on some Philadelphia school bonds to their lowest since
November, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The yield spreads may
shrink more with the vote by the School Reform Commission, a
panel that runs operations and is appointed by  Pennsylvania ’s
governor and Philadelphia’s mayor.  Budget Balance  “This really helps them deal in the short term to get
their budgets more and more in balance, which is usually good
for credit ratings and potentially good for spreads as well,”
said Paul Brennan, a senior portfolio manager at Chicago-based
Nuveen Asset Management. The company oversees about $90 billion
in munis.  The district of about 205,000 students isn’t alone in
shuttering facilities as enrollment falls while the percentage
of students attending publicly financed charter schools almost
triples.  Chicago , the nation’s third-largest district, will
 release  a proposal this month on closing some of its schools.  The trend of closings that began in the past decade will
probably continue, said Larry Eichel, project director of the
Philadelphia Research Initiative at the Pew Charitable Trusts.  “There’s nothing to suggest that things are going to turn
around dramatically,” said Eichel, who has researched the
phenomenon nationally.  In 2000, Philadelphia public schools educated 200,000
students. This academic year, excluding charter schools, the
institutions host about 150,000, school data show.  Annual Savings  The nation’s fifth-largest city anticipates  saving  $24.5
million a year by shutting 29 of its 249 buildings in June. The
average building is 64 years old, according to a financial
audit. More than 82 percent of students are “economically
disadvantaged,” meaning they receive free or reduced-price
lunches, school data  show .  “It’s very likely” more schools would be closed over the
next five years, said Fernando Gallard, a district spokesman,
who said he couldn’t estimate how many.  “We are wasting money maintaining empty seats and empty
space in our buildings,” Gallard said. “There is a better use
for that money.”  Bond buyers view officials as trying to get a handle on
their finances, said John Donaldson, director of fixed income at
Radnor, Pennsylvania-based Haverford Trust Co., who manages $750
million in munis.  Return Reach  With yields still close to generational lows reached in
December, investors are also seeking lower-quality debt for
higher returns, he said.  “Demand for incremental yield is still very strong, but
without some progress from the district you wouldn’t see that
tightening,” Donaldson said. “The two go hand in hand.”  The yield spread on Philadelphia school bonds maturing in
September 2038 was as little as 2.18 percentage points last
month, the smallest difference over top-rated debt since
November, Bloomberg Valuation pricing data show.  Because of a program that diverts state aid to school debt,
Moody’s Investors Service rates the securities Aa3, fourth-
highest. The bonds have an underlying grade of Ba1, the highest
level of speculative grade.  “It is a tough political decision to say we’re going to
close a bunch of schools,” Donaldson said. “There are going to
be emotional ties. But they’re necessary from a financial
side.”  Community groups say officials haven’t fully considered the
consequences of closures on children and neighborhoods.  ‘Downward Spiral’  “If you close the school down, you’re increasing the
downward spiral of an already struggling neighborhood,” said
Craig Robbins, executive director of  Action United , a
Philadelphia nonprofit group that urges a moratorium on the
proposal.  Robbins said officials are responsible for the fiscal
crisis because they “wildly expanded” charter schools, which
receive district funding. In a financial filing for the year
ended in June that was released last month, the district said
it’s a “national leader in providing meaningful school choice
to parents and students.”  A projected 29 percent of students will attend charter
schools in fiscal 2013, compared with less than 10 percent in
2003, Moody’s said. In fiscal 2012, the district’s charter-
school obligations increased by about $120.9 million, while the
state eliminated $109.5 million in aid for charters, the filing
said.  In a sign of its fiscal stress, the district, which has
about $3 billion in debt, sold $300 million of bonds in October
to plug a budget deficit.  Following is a pending sale:  NEW YORK  CITY MUNICIPAL WATER FINANCE AUTHORITY plans to
sell $517 million of tax-exempt revenue bonds as soon as next
week. Proceeds will refinance debt, according to the authority.
(Added March 6)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  