-- CNPC Said in Talks With Eni for $4b Mozambique LNG Assets
-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-03-06T18:21:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/cnpc-said-in-talks-with-eni-for-4b-mozambique-lng-assets.html
China National Petroleum Corp., the
nation’s biggest  oil company , is in talks with  Eni SpA (ENI)  for a
stake in a gas project in Mozambique valued at as much as $4
billion, according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  Italy’s largest oil company may sell a 20 percent stake in
a gas block to state-controlled CNPC to share the cost of
developing the project, the people said, asking not to be
identified because the talks are private. The companies have
been in discussions for at least six months and terms haven’t
been agreed upon, the people said.  The deal would rank as the biggest overseas investment made
by CNPC or its listed unit  PetroChina Co. (857) , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, and give  China  a foothold in one of the
world’s largest gas finds. China’s largest producers have bought
African oil and gas fields in countries ranging from Nigeria to
Uganda to feed energy demand in the world’s fastest growing
major economy.  Most recently,  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028) , the energy
group better known as Sinopec, entered into talks with  Afren Plc (AFR) 
to purchase assets in west Africa, people familiar with the
situation said last month.  Mozambique’s offshore fields may hold enough gas to meet
world consumption for more than two years, according to the
national oil company. Eni and  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) , the two
companies leading exploration in Mozambique, agreed last year to
build the world’s second-largest liquefied gas export plant to
start sending fuel abroad in 2018.  An official at Eni declined to comment.  Liu Weijiang , a
Beijing-based spokesman at CNPC declined to comment.  Eni shares rose 7 cents, or 0.4 percent, to close at 18.10
euros in Milan trading yesterday.  Anadarko Sale  Eni has a 70 percent stake in Mozambique’s Area 4, where it
has discovered about 75 trillion cubic feet of natural gas so
far, the biggest find in the company’s history. The whole
country may have 250 trillion cubic feet of reserves, according
to  Empresa Nacional de Hidrocarbonetos , Mozambique’s state-
backed energy company.  Developing Mozambique’s natural-gas industry, which will
need rigs, pipelines, and new gas-liquefaction and export
terminals, will require $50 billion in investment over the next
decade, the country’s mining minister said last year.  Anadarko and its partner  Videocon Industries Ltd. (VCLF)  are in
the process of selling a combined stake in Mozambique’s Area 1,
the block neighboring Eni’s, a person with knowledge of the
matter said. Anadarko, the block’s operator, may cut its stake
from 36.5 percent to 26.5 percent. Videocon is looking to sell
its entire 10 percent stake. Initial bids are due by March 14,
the person said.  Anadarko’s chief executive officer said last month that the
company is in talks with a number of parties.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in  Hong Kong  at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  