-- Codelco Expects Decline in Copper Cathode Shipments to China
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z   a n d   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2013-03-06T17:10:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/codelco-expects-decline-in-copper-cathode-shipments-to-china.html
Codelco, the biggest copper
producer, will reduce  cathode shipments to  China  this year as
the nation’s needs shift to concentrate imports.  Codelco, based in Santiago, will ship about 350,000 metric
tons of copper cathode to China this year, “a few thousand
tons” less than last year, Rodrigo Toro, corporate sales vice
president, said in an interview in  Madrid  today.  China is moving its import needs from refined metal to
copper concentrate after domestic production surged to account
for 73 percent of the nation’s primary usage, according to a
Citigroup Inc. report dated March 4. Copper is used in
electrical wiring and pipes. China’s priority will be to produce
its own refined copper, Toro said.  “They will import copper in the form of concentrate as
much as they can,” Toro said at the Metal Bulletin copper
conference. “The smelting and refining capacity in China is not
able to cope with all the metal requests.”  Copper prices have dropped 3 percent this year in  London  on
speculation supplies will exceed demand even with growth in
China.  China will still import 2 million tons to 2.5 million tons
of refined copper this year, Toro said. It took in 3.4 million
tons of refined metal in 2012, up 20 percent from a year
earlier, customs data show. Last year’s imports were “much
more” than the country needed and the copper ended up in bonded
warehouses, Toro said. The country may have accumulated 700,000
tons to 800,000 tons of copper in bonded warehouses and the
stockpiles need to decline before imports pick up, he said.  “They are consuming that stock, they are feeding their
industry with that stock and so they are importing less,” he
said. “Western cathode production ends up going into London
Metal Exchange warehouses in  Europe , the U.S. and  Asia .”  Bonded Stockpiles  Copper stockpiles in warehouses monitored by Comex, LME and
 Shanghai  Futures Exchange will grow “marginally” this year,
Toro said. Inventories in warehouse monitored by the LME surged
48 percent this year to the highest level since Oct. 5, 2011,
while those in Shanghai are at the highest in almost a year.  Demand in China will grow at an annual pace of 4 percent to
5 percent in the next five years, while consumption in other
emerging economies in Asia,  Latin America  and  Africa  will expand
by 3 percent to 4 percent, according to Toro. Prices will need
to stay high enough to encourage producers to add new mines, he
said.  Demand Growth  Global copper demand growth will accelerate to 4.2 percent
this year after expanding 1.1 percent in 2012, the smallest
increase in three years, Morgan Stanley estimates. Usage in
China will grow 8.4 percent this year, the fastest pace since
2009, after hovering around 5 percent for two years, the bank
estimated in a Jan. 24 report.  “The world is not in a recession and is growing in a
healthy way,” Toro said. “China last year had an unexpected
stagnation of copper consumption. We do not expect this to be
the case now.”  About 90 percent of Codelco’s cathode sales go to consumers
as part of annual contracts, while the rest is sold on the  spot
market , Toro said.  “The situation in Europe is not good but that doesn’t mean
the situation in Europe is a disaster,” he said.  Increasing costs and environmental risks pose a challenge
to new mining projects, Toro said. An expansion of Codelco’s
Andina mine in central  Chile  is a “very complex project” and
final approvals will probably be granted “towards the end of
the year but most probably next year,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  