-- Lowest CPI Since 1955 Lets Colombia Target Growth, Cardenas Says
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2013-03-06T05:19:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/colombian-consumer-prices-rose-1-83-in-february-vs-year-ago.html
The lowest  inflation rate  in six
decades gives Colombian policy makers the freedom to focus on
boosting economic growth, Finance Minister Mauricio Cardenas
said.  Colombia has entered a “sustainable low inflation phase”
which means policy makers can concentrate their efforts on
getting growth to accelerate to its potential rate of 4.8
percent per year, Cardenas said in a March 5 phone interview.  Consumer prices rose 1.83 percent in February from a year
earlier, the slowest pace since the government of dictator
General Gustavo Rojas Pinilla in 1955, as food, clothing and
entertainment costs fell. The median estimate of 23 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg was for inflation of 1.89 percent. Prices
rose 0.44 percent from a month earlier.  “We’re not worried about inflation,” Cardenas said. “We
can put our eyes now on the business cycle, and we can focus on
monetary policy as an instrument to achieve potential growth.”  Colombia has cut its policy rate six times since June to
3.75 percent, the lowest among major Latin American economies,
citing below-potential growth and slowing inflation. The central
bank wants to get inflation back up to the midpoint of its
target range over a “prudent” period of time, bank Governor
Jose Dario Uribe said in a March 1 interview.  The central bank targets inflation of 3 percent, plus or
minus one percentage point.  Venezuela Demand  The economy expanded 2.1 percent in the third quarter from
a year earlier, the slowest pace in the Andean region. Banco de
la Republica estimates the economy grew 3.3 percent to 3.9
percent last year, compared with 5.9 percent in 2011. Gross
domestic product will increase 2.5 percent to 4.5 percent in
2013, according to the bank.  Cardenas, who traveled to Caracas yesterday hours before
Venezuela announced the death of President Hugo Chavez, said
policy makers will carefully monitor developments in their
neighbor, which is the biggest importer of Colombian
manufactures.  The central bank’s policy committee, which Cardenas chairs,
cited “the risk of lower demand from Venezuela,” in the
statement explaining their rate cut last month.  Yields on peso bonds due in 2024 have fallen 2.05
percentage point since June, to 4.962 percent, as growth and
inflation slowed, and the government cut taxes on foreigners’
profits on local bonds.  The peso has weakened 2.5 percent this year, to 1809.75 per
U.S. dollar, the biggest fall among major Latin American
currencies after the Venezuelan bolivar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  