-- CommonWealth Clash Spotlights Uncommon Management System
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2013-03-06T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/commonwealth-clash-spotlights-uncommon-management-system.html
CommonWealth REIT (CWH) ’s clash with
shareholders over a stock sale is putting a spotlight on the
company that manages it and four other real estate investment
trusts after investors complained the structure erodes value.  CommonWealth’s manager, Reit Management & Research LLC, is
at the center of objections by investors including Corvex
Management LP and Related Cos. who tried to block the stock
sale, which was completed yesterday. CommonWealth sold 34.5
million shares at $19 each, resulting in net proceeds of about
$628 million, the REIT said in a statement.  RMR receives fees from the companies it runs and its
owners, Barry Portnoy and his son Adam, serve on the boards of
the REITs, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. More
investors may follow the lead of Corvex and Related and push for
changes at other REITs that Newton, Massachusetts-based RMR
manages, said  Jim Sullivan , a managing director at Green Street
Advisors Inc., a  Newport Beach , California-based company that
focuses on REIT research.  “The Portnoy empire is a large one,” he said in a
telephone interview. “Tipping one domino here, that is
CommonWealth, could tip the others as well.”  RMR, the biggest company that manages publicly traded
property REITs, also operates  Select Income REIT (SIR) ,  Government
Properties Income Trust (GOV) ,  Hospitality Properties Trust (HPT)  and Senior
Housing Properties Trust. Most publicly traded REITs that own
real estate are internally managed, making RMR and the firms it
runs uncommon in the industry, Sullivan said.  Management Incentives  Keith Meister’s Corvex and Related, led by Chief Executive
Officer Jeff Blau, projected that CommonWealth’s real estate
assets are worth about $40 a share, according to a Feb. 26
letter to the board. The “misalignment of incentives” between
the REIT and its external management has driven down the value
of the stock, the New York-based investors said. They sought to
stop the stock sale because of the dilution to shareholders.  Corvex and Related, which together own 9.8 percent of
Newton-based CommonWealth, had offered to acquire the company
for $27 a share before the stock was priced and said they may
seek to replace the five-member board with independent trustees.  The REIT’s board, “controlled by external manager RMR, is
in the unique position of blatantly acting in the best interest
of RMR rather than as a fiduciary” to CommonWealth
shareholders, John Guinee, an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co.
in Baltimore, wrote in a March 4 note to clients.  CommonWealth amended its corporate bylaws last week to make
it harder for  shareholders  to push for changes, “indicating RMR
is already hard at work buttressing its castle,” Guinee wrote.  Share Decline  Tim Bonang, head of  investor relations  at CommonWealth and
the other RMR-managed REITs, didn’t return a call seeking
comment.  CommonWealth fell 3.3 percent to $23.12 in  New York  trading
yesterday. The shares dropped 17 percent in the 12 months
through Feb. 25, the day before Meister and Related began
agitating for change. That compared with an 11 percent advance
in the Bloomberg REIT  Index (BBREIT)  of 129 companies.  Shares of the other companies operated by RMR rose during
the period, with a 12 percent gain for Senior Housing Properties
Trust, 5 percent for Government Properties Income Trust and 3.8
percent for Hospitality Properties Trust. Select Income REIT
jumped 18 percent since its initial public offering last March.  CommonWealth, with a market value of $2.74 billion, is the
third-largest of the REITs managed by RMR. The biggest is  Senior
Housing Properties Trust (SNH) , at $4.8 billion. The smallest is
Select Income REIT, with a value of $1.08 billion.  ‘Fundamental Difference’  Having an outside manager is standard among nonlisted
REITs, which aren’t traded on  stock exchanges  and sell shares
primarily to individual investors through brokers. For publicly
traded property REITs, managers, executives and employees tend
to work for just that company, Sullivan said.  The outside management arrangement creates a “fundamental
difference in the alignment of interests of shareholders and
those that manage the REIT,” Sullivan said. “In the case of
RMR, the guys that run the REITs don’t own much of the REITs.”  Another issue for investors is that RMR divides its
management efforts among its five companies rather than focusing
attention on an individual REIT, Sullivan said.  CommonWealth benefits from being operated by RMR because of
the company’s depth of management and experience in the real
estate industry, according to the REIT’s  website . The fees paid
to RMR, which was founded in 1986, have historically been lower
than the average corporate expenses for many office REITs,
CommonWealth said.  REIT Requirements  REITs, whose primary income streams are from real estate,
are required by the  Internal Revenue Service  to distribute at
least 90 percent of their taxable earnings to shareholders as
dividends. In exchange, they pay little or no income tax.  A hostile bid “has never been successful in REIT land,”
 Rich Moore , an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets , wrote in a March
4 report to investors.  To fend off Corvex and Related, CommonWealth changed its
bylaws on March 1 to make it harder for an investor to replace
board members. A shareholder or group of investors now must own
3 percent of the company for at least three years before taking
action to remove a trustee, according to a filing with the
Securities and Exchange Commission.  Investor Lawsuits  The investors said in a lawsuit that CommonWealth’s
trustees disseminated false and misleading statements and
defrauded the landlord’s investors. The trustees were using the
equity offering to place large blocks of stock in “friendly
hands” and disenfranchise existing shareholders, according to
the complaint filed March 1 in federal court in  Boston .  At a court hearing on March 4, Corvex and Related
“affirmed their desire to seek to replace all of the members”
of CommonWealth’s board, according to regulatory  filing 
yesterday.  Joanna Rose , a spokeswoman for Corvex and Related, didn’t
return a call seeking comment on their plans.  Another CommonWealth shareholder, Delaware County Employees
Retirement Fund, also sought to stop the share sale. The fund
sued CommonWealth founder Barry Portnoy and members of the
board, saying the trustees are using CommonWealth’s equity “to
entrench themselves and discourage any proposal to acquire,”
according to that complaint, filed Feb. 28 in federal court in
Boston.  Lawyers for the trustees said in court papers that
CommonWealth was raising equity and cutting debt to maintain an
investment-grade  credit rating .  The case is Corvex Management LP v. CommonWealth REIT, 13-
cv-10475, U.S. District Court, District of  Massachusetts 
(Boston). The Delaware fund’s case is Delaware County Employees
Retirement Fund v. Portnoy, 13-cv-10405, U.S. District Court,
District of Massachusetts (Boston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  