-- Copper Falls to 15-Week Low on Supply Gain, U.S. Factory Orders
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2013-03-06T18:51:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/copper-declines-as-inventories-rise-u-s-factory-orders-fall.html
Copper fell to a 15-week low as
rising inventories and a drop in U.S. factory orders fueled
demand concerns.  Stockpiles monitored by the  London  Metal Exchange climbed
for a 15th straight day and are the highest since October 2011.
Bookings to U.S. factories slid 2 percent in January, the most
in five months, after a revised 1.3 percent increase in December
that was lower than a prior estimate, government data showed
today. Copper also fell on a stronger dollar, which makes
commodities less appealing as an alternative investment.  “Factory orders were a bit of a dud, and inventories will
certainly work to keep speculative buying at bay,” Sterling Smith, a futures specialist at Citigroup Inc. in  Chicago , said
in a telephone interview.  Copper futures for delivery in May declined 0.6 percent to
close at $3.493 a pound at 1:16 p.m. on the Comex in New York,
the lowest settlement since Nov. 16. The metal has lost 4.4
percent this year.  Customers are “very careful” and ordering on short
notice, according to  Aurubis AG (NDA) , the world’s second-largest
copper refiner.  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) , the top
publicly traded producer of the metal, is pressing ahead with
expansion projects, adding to prospects for increased supplies.  Stockpiles monitored by the LME, up 48 percent this year,
increased 0.2 percent to 473,750 metric tons, daily exchange
figures showed. Inventories tracked by the Shanghai Futures
Exchange are near a one-year high.  On the LME, copper for delivery in three months fell 1.1
percent to $7,690 a ton ($3.49 a pound).  Lead, aluminum, zinc and nickel also slipped in London. Tin
rose.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  