-- Copper Falls on Concern Demand Is Weak Amid Ample Inventories
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2013-03-06T12:42:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/copper-climbs-for-third-day-as-u-s-data-boost-demand-outlook.html
Copper fell in  New York  on concern
physical demand remains weak amid ample inventories of the metal
and signs that work on new mines is proceeding.  Copper stockpiles monitored by the London Metal Exchange
doubled since the end of September and those tracked by the
Shanghai Futures Exchange are at a one-year high. Customers are
“very careful” and ordering copper on short notice, according
to Aurubis AG. Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. is pressing
ahead with expansion projects.  “The market is still under pressure,” Pengjiang “Richard” Fu, director for Asian commodities trading at
Newedge Group SA in London, said by e-mail. “Funds have been
selling across the board. The expected physical buying from
 China  after the New Year holiday has not shown up,” he said,
referring to February’s weeklong Lunar New Year celebration.  Copper for delivery in May declined 0.3 percent to $3.5045
a pound by 7:23 a.m. on the Comex in New York. The metal for
delivery in three months fell 0.6 percent to $7,728 a metric ton
on the LME.  Prices increased in the prior two sessions even after the
government in China, the world’s biggest copper user, called for
higher down payments for second-home mortgages in some cities.
The Copper Development Association says building generates about
40 percent of demand for the metal. The  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  of U.S. equities rose to a record yesterday.  “Nervousness over new China clampdowns on property
investment has seen a retreat from copper,” Mark Newson-Smith,
head of sales at XConnect Trading Ltd. in London, said by e-mail
today. He cited “a suspicion that Dow strength in particular is
displaying the beginnings of an asset bubble” as funds flow
into shares from metals.  Copper  stockpiles  monitored by the LME, up 48 percent this
year to the highest level since October 2011, rose 0.2 percent
to 473,750 tons, daily exchange figures showed. Orders to remove
the metal from warehouses, down 55 percent in 2013 to the lowest
since last June, fell 6.6 percent to 23,025 tons.  Lead, aluminum, zinc and nickel slid in  London . Tin was
little changed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  