-- Deutsche Telekom’s Obermann to Lead Cable Operator Ziggo
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2013-03-07T13:45:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/deutsche-telekom-s-obermann-to-lead-dutch-cable-operator-ziggo.html
Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  Chief Executive
Officer Rene Obermann, who is stepping down at the end of this
year, will join Dutch cable operator  Ziggo NV (ZIGGO)  as the German
phone company seeks to complete a merger of its U.S. wireless
unit with MetroPCS Communications Inc.  Obermann will take over in January 2014 from CEO Bernard Dijkhuizen, who is set to retire, Utrecht, Netherlands-based
Ziggo said yesterday. The 49-year-old will stick with a plan to
stay on as CEO this year as he hands over responsibilities to
his successor, Chief Financial Officer Timotheus Hoettges, said
Deutsche Telekom spokesman Philipp Schindera.  The German carrier is going through the leadership
transition as an agreed merger of its T-Mobile unit in the U.S.
with MetroPCS faces opposition from some MetroPCS shareholders.
Deutsche Telekom has increased spending to win over phone
customers in  Europe  and the U.S., leading to a fourth-quarter
profit before some items that trailed analysts’ estimates.  “This opportunity fulfills my strong wish as an
entrepreneur to move closer to the operation activities and to
be involved in a fast changing world of offering products and
services in media and entertainment,” Obermann said in a
statement of his appointment at Ziggo.  Cable Rivalry  Obermann has been wrestling with cable companies such as
 Kabel Deutschland Holding AG (KD8)  in Germany and trying to persuade
regulators to limit their grip on local markets. Bonn-based
Deutsche Telekom is open to cooperation with fixed-line carriers
in European markets -- such as the Netherlands -- where it
offers only wireless services, Claudia Nemat, who oversees the
German company’s businesses in the region, said last week in
Barcelona.  Obermann’s appointment will be on the agenda of Ziggo’s
April 18 shareholder meeting.  Ziggo shares fell 1.4 percent to 26.30 euros at 2:41 p.m.
in Amsterdam. The stock has jumped 42 percent since the
company’s initial public offering in March 2012. Ziggo, whose
biggest shareholders are Warburg Pincus LLC and Cinven Ltd., has
a market value of 5.3 billion euros ($6.9 billion). Deutsche
Telekom dropped 0.8 percent on the Frankfurt exchange.  Europe’s cable assets have become more attractive this
year, with billionaire  John Malone ’s  Liberty Global Inc. (LBTYA) 
agreeing to acquire  Virgin Media Inc. (VMED)  in the U.K. for $16
billion last month. Neil Berkett, the  Virgin Media  CEO who is
stepping down after the transaction, stands to get as much as
$85 million, a person familiar with the situation has said.  Kabel Deutschland  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  has held internal discussions about a
possible bid for Germany’s  Kabel Deutschland  Holding AG, people
familiar with the matter said last month.  Ziggo, with 2.9 million TV customers at the end of last
year, didn’t take part in an auction for wireless spectrum for
high-speed mobile-phone services in December. Royal KPN NV,
Vodafone, Deutsche Telekom’s T-Mobile unit and Tele 2 AB paid
3.8 billion euros in total. Ziggo, in a joint-venture with
Liberty Global’s UPC unit, considered the price too high and now
plans to expand its mobile offering using some spectrum it
acquired in 2010.  “We believe it is positive that Ziggo announces so early
in the year who will replace Bernard Dijkhuizen as CEO as this
avoids potential succession problems,” Emmanuel Carlier, a
Brussels-based analyst at ING Groep NV, wrote in a note. “It is
good that Obermann has experience in fixed and mobile services
as Ziggo intends to launch a mobile product, which could become
one of its most important growth drivers.”  ‘Engine Room’  Still, Ziggo’s 2012  revenue  of 1.5 billion euros compares
with more than 58 billion euros at Deutsche Telekom,  Germany ’s
largest phone company. Obermann, in explaining to directors his
resignation in December, cited frustration with efforts to
persuade regulators to rethink rules that govern a shrinking
industry, a person familiar with the matter said at the time.  Telecommunications stocks were the worst-performing
industry group in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index last year. The
subindex has  gained  3.5 percent this year through yesterday.
Virgin Media jumped 40 percent in the same period, while Kabel
Deutschland is was 21 percent.  Obermann has said that he wanted to return to the “engine
room.” His career began when he co-founded ABC Telekom, a
retailer of answering and fax machines, as a 23-year-old student
at the University of Muenster in Germany. He ran the company
from his apartment and later rented a 60-square-meter office
with a double garage.  Hong Kong billionaire  Li Ka-Shing ’s  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) 
bought ABC in 1991, after the company had grown to 20 million
deutsche marks ($13 million) in annual revenue and 60 employees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  