-- Disney Shareholders Reject Call to Split Chairman-CEO Job
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-03-06T21:03:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/disney-shareholders-reject-call-to-split-chairman-ceo-job.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  investors turned
back calls for a future split of the two top jobs held by
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Robert Iger , rejecting the
demands of three state pension funds.  Sixty five percent of shareholders voting opposed the
split, Disney said today at its annual meeting in Phoenix. The
company’s executive compensation and bonus plans passed, and
Iger was re-elected to the board with 98 percent support.  Investors in Disney, the world’s largest entertainment
company, were considering a proposal by the Connecticut
Retirement Plans & Trust Funds to split the roles of chairman
and CEO going forward. Iger, who plans to step down as CEO in
March 2015, led Disney to a 76 percent total shareholder return
for the fiscal year ended in September, the company has said.  “He’s had phenomenally good performance,” said Kannan
Ramaswamy, a professor of management at the Thunderbird School
of Global Management in Glendale, Arizona, who spoke before the
meeting. “Shareholders should be happy. This was not the most
opportune time to pick a fight.”  Disney reached an all-time closing  high  yesterday of
$56.48. The shares fell 0.2 percent to $56.36 at the close today
in  New York .  The Connecticut funds said in the company’s Jan. 18 proxy
filing that it was in the best interest of shareholders to
separate board leadership and management.  Pension Funds  The  California Public Employees’ Retirement System  and the
California State Teachers’ Retirement System, the two largest
U.S. pension funds, also supported the non-binding measure to
split top management duties. They were joined by proxy advisers
Institutional Shareholder Services Inc. and Glass Lewis & Co.  Calstrs went further, saying it opposed re-electing Iger
and five other nominees to the board, as well as the incentive
and compensation plans at Burbank, California-based Disney.  Calpers supported the board nominees and the executive pay
plan, which garnered 58 percent shareholder support. An
amendment to the bonus plan was approved by 88 percent.  “If the shareholders aren’t happy let them sell their
stock,” investor Bill Murdoch, 76, a retired engineer from
Sedona,  Arizona , said at the meeting. “Don’t you think he’s
worth it? I do.”  Iger, 62, held only the CEO’s title until last year, when
he was named to the added role of chairman as part of a new
employment contract. After relinquishing the role of CEO, he
will serve as executive chairman for 15 months through June 30,
2016, according to the company.  ‘Good Job’  Iger’s fiscal 2012 compensation totaled $40.2 million based
on SEC reporting rules, according to the company’s annual proxy
filing. That includes a salary of $2.5 million, plus stock and
option awards, incentive pay and an increase in the value of his
pension.  Disney appointed an independent chairman in 2004 amid a
shareholder revolt against then-CEO  Michael Eisner .  In its proxy statement, the company said it changed Iger’s
compensation last year based on discussions with large investors
to better link pay to earnings and stock performance.  The company’s 76 percent total shareholder return for the
fiscal year ended in September was more than double the 30
percent return of the  S&P 500 Index , the company said.  “They’ve done a good job,” said Noble Jackson, a 61-year-
old veterinary science professor from Tucson who said he voted
against the chairman-CEO proposal. “If it ain’t broke don’t fix
it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  