-- Dodd-Frank Swaps Pushout Would Be Eased by Bipartisan Bills
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2013-03-06T18:21:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/dodd-frank-swap-pushout-would-be-limited-under-bipartisan-bills.html
U.S. House and Senate lawmakers
introduced legislation that would allow more swaps trading to be
conducted at banks that have federal insurance by repealing part
of the Dodd-Frank Act.  The bipartisan measures call for altering the 2010 law’s
requirement that banks with access to deposit insurance and the
 Federal Reserve ’s discount window move some derivatives trades
to separate affiliates that have their own capital. Commodity,
equity and structured swaps tied to some asset-backed securities
would be allowed in banks under the legislation.  “People who object are going to say this allows banks to
take huge risks. Not true,” said Representative Jim Himes, a
Democrat from Connecticut who is among the bill’s sponsors.
“It’s going to allow them to maintain inventory of the swaps
that their customers need to buy from them; just the same way
when you go to buy a car from a car dealer.”  The legislation, which would need approval by Congress
before heading to President  Barack Obama  for signature, is part
of a series of congressional efforts to amend or limit Dodd-
Frank’s derivatives regulations. Dodd-Frank requires the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission and other regulators to
write rules to reduce risk and increase transparency in the
market after swaps helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis.  Congressional efforts to change the law have so far failed
to win passage in Congress, while the CFTC and other regulators
seek to finish writing regulations.  Bipartisan Sponsors  The legislation was introduced today by Senators  Kay Hagan ,
a North Carolina Democrat,  Pat Toomey , a Pennsylvania
Republican,  Mark Warner , a Virginia Democrat, and Mike Johanns,
a Nebraska Republican. The House measure was introduced by Himes
as well as Representatives Randy Hultgren, an Illinois
Republican, Richard Hudson, a North Carolina Republican, and
Sean Patrick Maloney, a  New York  Democrat.  Blanche Lincoln , an Arkansas Democrat who led the Senate
Agriculture Committee during talks leading to the regulatory
overhaul, sponsored the original so-called pushout provision as
a way to limit taxpayer support for risky derivatives trades.
Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and  Sheila Bair , the former Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. chairman, opposed the provision and
argued that it would drive derivatives trading to less-regulated
entities.  Representative Maxine Waters, the top Democrat on the House
Financial Services Committee, said last year that “legitimate
concerns have been raised about whether pushing a significant
portion of swaps out of banks is the best way to mitigate
against future systemic risk.”  Americans for Financial Reform, a coalition including the
AFL-CIO labor federation as well as other unions and consumer
advocacy groups, has opposed changes to the push-out rule.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  