-- Dollar Investors Coveted in Denmark as Swaps Expand Funding Base
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2013-03-07T11:43:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/dollar-investors-coveted-in-denmark-as-swaps-expand-funding-base.html
Denmark  plans to make more regular
use of currency swaps to expand its funding base and target
dollar investors in a strategy the debt office bets will save it
money.  Denmark, which pegs the krone to the euro, is now taking a
more “neutral” position on its foreign borrowing after
previously relying on  Europe ’s single currency, said Ove Sten Jensen, head of the government’s debt management office at the
central bank in Copenhagen.  “We mainly borrow in foreign currency to cultivate our
investor base at the present,” Jensen said in an interview.
“Hence, we also consider dollar issuance, because there may be
some different investors in dollars who complement our existing
investor base.”  The debt office is targeting a broader currency base after
the global financial crisis showed that reliance on a single
market can prove costly, even for AAA rated issuers like
Denmark. The Scandinavian country isn’t alone in targeting the
dollar market, the world’s most liquid, as borrowing costs drop
from January’s 19-month high.  Ireland’s debt agency has said it’s considering a sale in
dollars, and Spain last month sold $2 billion in dollar-
denominated securities in its first foray into the market since
September 2009. Spain shaved 10 basis points off the rate it
pays by avoiding the euro market, HSBC Holdings Plc estimated.  ‘Best Results’  Denmark is planning as much as 2 billion euros ($2.6
billion) in foreign borrowing this year, either in euros or
dollars. That’s a 33 percent increase on its maximum target for
2012.  “The strategy is more neutral regarding currency than
previously,” Jensen said. “Often you get the best results,
cost-wise, by issuing in dollars if you’re not doing a lot of
issuance.”  The debt office estimates that it cut the interest rate on
last year’s foreign borrowing by almost two-thirds by taking out
a bullet loan in dollars and then  swapping  it into euros. Asian
investors were the biggest buyers, representing 39 percent of
the total.  The office took out loans for $1.75 billion in 2012, with
an effective interest rate of 0.65 percent, after getting bids
for $3 billion, the central bank said last month. That was 29
basis points over the U.S.’s three-year government bond.  Considerable Interest  The office then swapped the loan into euros with a fixed
rate of 0.21 percent. That’s less than it would have paid if it
had gone straight to the euro market, it said last month.  “We watch the swap market,” Jensen said. “It’s part of
getting an attractive result.”  Currency market developments have helped push Denmark’s
short-term borrowing costs below zero. A capital influx last
year, as investors fled the euro zone, strengthened the krone
and forced the central bank to resort to a negative deposit
rate.  “There still appears to be considerable foreign interest
in our Treasury bills,” Jensen said. “Although we don’t have
any new statistics yet, the trend appears so far to be broadly
the same as last year.”  The yield on Denmark’s two-year government bond fell today
amid concerns the stalemate after  Italy ’s elections last month
will reignite Europe’s sovereign debt crisis. The yield on the
bond maturing Nov. 2016 fell one basis point to 0.258 percent.  The krone gained against the euro to 7.4547, its strongest
level in more than five months. The central bank targets a rate
of 7.46038 per euro, inside a band of 2.25 percent.  Syndicated Borrowing  The debt office has sold bills at yields that were
negative, or at zero, in all auctions since April. In a Feb. 27
auction, the yield on the bill due Sept. 2 was minus 0.07
percent and the yield on the June 3 note was minus 0.125
percent.  This year’s syndicated foreign borrowing will have a
maturity of two to five years, and dollar borrowing would be
swapped so the final exposure is in euros, according to the
central bank.  “For many years, we have only had end-exposures in foreign
debt in euros,” Jensen said. “We are not there to have an
opinion about the exchange rate between, for example, dollars
and euros. The Danish krone is pegged to the euro, so our
neutral position is to have our foreign debt in euro. That’s
what we’ve done since 2001.”  To reach more investors, the government’s debt office last
year issued its first inflation-linked bond and this year will
seek to retain interest by building liquidity in its 10- and 30-
year series.  “We try to keep the investor base alive by coming out each
year,” Jensen said. “At times during the crisis -- 2008 and
2009 -- the market was really difficult for nearly all names.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net 
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  