-- Dow Asks Court to Erase $400 Million Urethane Verdict
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2013-03-06T17:08:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/dow-asks-court-to-erase-400-million-urethane-verdict.html
Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  asked a federal
court in  Kansas  to throw out a $400 million antitrust jury
verdict, contending there was no evidence to support a claim
that the company conspired to fix urethane product prices.  The verdict, awarded last month, is subject to tripling to
$1.2 billion under U.S. antitrust law. The plaintiffs, buyers of
urethane-derived products, sued as a class, claiming Dow
conspired with other companies beginning in 1999.  Dow also asked U.S. District Judge John W. Lungstrum to
decertify the class of urethane purchasers, arguing that the
members didn’t prove they had suffered the same injury. This
meant the plaintiffs didn’t meet the “commonality” requirement
for class actions, Dow said.  “Based upon the evidence plaintiffs presented and the
jury’s verdict, no reasonable jury could have found impact and
damages,” Dow said in a filing with the  Kansas City  court
yesterday. According to the plaintiffs’ witness, “some class
members were not injured at all,” the company said.  Joseph Goldberg, a plaintiffs’ attorney, didn’t immediately
return a call for comment on the filing.  The case started in 2005 with allegations that Dow plotted
with  BASF SE (BAS) , Huntsman International LLC and Lyondell Chemical
Co. in violation of federal law. Only Midland, Michigan-based
Dow didn’t settle.  Claims from before November 2000 were rejected by the jury.  Cars, Appliances  At the heart of the suit were urethane-based products used
in the automotive, construction, appliance and furniture
industries. Dow denied the price-fixing allegations, maintaining
there were legitimate business reasons for the evidence the
plaintiffs cited as proof of their claims.  Dow, BASF, Huntsman and Lyondell were first sued in federal
court in  New Jersey . The case was transferred to a multidistrict
docket in Kansas City as part of litigation involving more than
60 plaintiffs, some of whom later opted out of the group
litigation.  The case is In re Urethane  Antitrust Litigation , 04-md-
1616, U.S. District Court, District of Kansas (Kansas City).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 