-- DuPont Faces Second Year of Paint Pigment Price Decline
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2013-03-06T21:35:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/dupont-faces-second-year-of-paint-pigment-price-decline.html
DuPont Co. (DD) , the world’s biggest
producer of titanium-dioxide pigment, is facing slimmer margins
as prices in the $16.3 billion market are poised for the first
two-year drop in a decade because of oversupply and weak demand.  Prices for the white paint ingredient, known by its
chemical formula TiO2, have tumbled 33 percent to $3.97 a
kilogram from a February 2012 peak, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Only coffee and orange juice performed worse among
41 commodities in the UBS Bloomberg CMCI Index. Producer price
increases announced last month will fail as customers demand
additional cuts, said  Jim Fisher , chief executive officer of
pigment consultant IBMA Inc.  DuPont,  Huntsman Corp. (HUN)  and other TiO2 producers may not see
recovery as soon as they  forecast  amid a selloff of inventories
that are 50 percent higher than normal. More Chinese supplies,
customers reformulating products to use less TiO2 and higher
titanium ore costs also threaten profits from the chemical used
to make paint for appliances, cars and homes.  “The low point of the cycle may be a little longer than
some people foresaw,” Fisher, based in Hilton Head,  South
Carolina , said in a phone interview. He’s worked in the industry
for 35 years, including 12 years at the predecessor to TiO2
producer  Kronos Worldwide Inc. (KRO)   Huntsman, Kronos and Cristal separately announced price
increases last month of 10 cents a pound, or 6 percent, for the
mineral-based chemical that’s also used to whiten toothpaste and
Twinkie filling.  ‘Testing Waters’  The price announcements will probably be ignored, Frank Mitsch, a New York-based analyst at  Wells Fargo Securities LLC ,
said in a Feb. 28 note. Ian Corydon, a Los Angeles-based analyst
at B. Riley & Co., agreed, saying that excess inventory gives
paintmakers little reason to pay more and they can bargain the
price down.  “Those guys are testing the waters to see if they can get
a price increase,” Corydon said of the producers in a phone
interview.  Rather than rise, TiO2 may drop another 7 to 14 percent
before the price stabilizes next year, IBMA’s Fisher said. A
second year of lower prices this year would be the longest
losing streak for TiO2 since 2002, he said.  DuPont, the industry’s low-cost producer, probably won’t
follow competitors’ price announcements because increases would
risk sales as the industry sits on 80 to 90 days of inventory,
compared with normal levels of 40 to 60 days, Fisher said.  Stabilizing Prices  Prices may not stabilize until 2014, cutting pretax
operating income at DuPont by as much as $500 million this year,
Duffy Fischer, a New York-based analyst at Barclays Plc, said in
Feb. 12 note. Deutsche Bank AG analysts led by David Begleiter
estimate earnings in the DuPont unit that makes TiO2 will drop
40 percent to $1.13 billion this year.  DuPont Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Ellen Kullman 
said Jan. 22 that the market should stabilize in the first half
as inventories are used up. She said full-year profit margins
from TiO2 will narrow as much as 9 percentage points, cutting
the company’s per-share earnings growth to 2 percent to 7
percent, compared with Kullman’s long-term target of 12 percent.  The decline may be worse than forecast, Fisher said.
Producer forecasts are overly optimistic on the pace of
inventory drawdowns, and they also fail to fully account for the
impact of rising exports from  China , a slow growing European
economy and a bumpy U.S. recovery, he said.  ‘Too Much Headwind’  “I don’t know if they have the capability of pushing
prices up in this market,” Fisher said. “There is too much
headwind going the other way.”  Huntsman, which forecasts pigment earnings dropping to near
zero in the first quarter, said sales volumes and prices will
improve after this month. Earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization for its pigment segment may fall
to about $200 million in 2013, from $362 million last year, the
Salt Lake City-based company said last month.  Huntsman stock has gained 19 percent this year, compared
with an 8.4 percent increase by DuPont.  Demand is improving in  Asia  and exports from China are
dropping, helping to stop sliding prices in some parts of the
world, CEO Peter Huntsman said in a phone interview yesterday.
Price increases in some regions will be successful in the first
half, if not in March, he said.  “You first have to stop the knife from falling any
further, and you then have to turn it around,” he said.  Volumes Tumble  Janet Keckeisen, a Kronos spokeswoman, didn’t respond to a
request for comment today. A spokeswoman for Cristal also didn’t
respond to a request for comment.  Sales volumes of pigment tumbled 17 percent in the fourth
quarter at  Tronox Ltd. (TROX) , with 12 percent due to excess
inventories, about 4 percent from customers reformulating paints
to use less TiO2, and 1 percent caused by Chinese imports, said
Tom Casey, chairman and CEO of the  Stamford , Connecticut-based
company.  Tronox has 81 days of pigment sales in inventory, which is
25 to 30 days more than normal, Casey said Feb. 21. Plant
operating rates should rise to about 90 percent by year-end,
from 75 percent currently, Casey said.  “Volumes should slowly build through the first half,”
Casey said. “There’s a lag while we work down the inventories,
and then plant utilizations move up.”  Tronox, Kronos and Cristal are most in need of higher
prices because of their reliance on European markets, where
demand has slowed with the economy, Fisher said.  Chinese Producers  Meanwhile, Chinese producers have announced plans to add 1
million metric tons of annual TiO2 capacity by 2020, Fisher
said. That’s a 63 percent increase in the nation’s output and a
19 percent increase in effective global capacity of 5.39 million
tons, he said. Even if some smaller plants are closed by
environmental regulations, exports from China will continue to
climb.  “The Chinese have changed the character of the business,”
Fisher said. “They are keen to participate in world markets.”  Any price gains may only serve to keep pace with costs for
titanium ore, Fisher said, as Rio Tinto Group and  Iluka
Resources Ltd. (ILU)  announced plans last month to cut ore production.  Corydon, the B. Riley analyst, said now is the time to
invest in TiO2 companies such as Tronox, because a recovery will
occur sooner than most expect. Tronox has gained 16 percent this
year and Kronos has fallen 11 percent.  ‘Waiting for Turn’  “There are a lot of people on the sidelines waiting for
the turn,” Corydon, who recommends buying Tronox, said in a
March 1 interview. “It’s dangerous to wait because as the money
starts flowing in, the stocks will correct pretty quickly.”  Improvement in the U.S. housing market is helping consume
inventories that built up last year, and excess inventories will
be used up in the first half, Corydon said.  Hassan Ahmed , a New York-based analyst at Alembic Global
Advisors, said the price rise announcements made in the face of
continued weak demand indicate economic distress at pigment
producers. Higher prices that boost earnings to about 13 percent
of sales at Huntsman “are imminent,” Ahmed said in a Feb. 25
note.  On the other hand, lower price increases may lead to a
protracted earnings trough, potentially resulting in the
shutdown of four pigment plants in western  Europe  and  North
America , Fisher said.  “This industry is used to a lot of pain,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  