-- The NFL Sets the Standard for Homophobia
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M a h l e r
-- 2013-03-06T23:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/the-nfl-sets-the-standard-for-homophobia.html
From a legal standpoint, there’s
nothing remarkable about Chris Kluwe and Brendon Ayanbadejo’s
 legal filing  with the  Supreme Court .  Hundreds of  people and
organizations, from former Republican presidential candidate Jon M. Huntsman Jr. to the U.S. Justice Department, have also urged
the justices to strike down  California ’s ban on same-sex
marriage.  In the context of the  National Football League , though,
Kluwe and Ayanbadejo’s amicus brief is nothing less than a
historic document.  In the sweaty, macho world of professional sports, the NFL
sets the standard for homophobia. It’s  North America ’s only
major professional league that has yet to fine, suspend or even
reprimand one of its players for uttering an anti-gay slur. For
that matter, the NFL hasn’t even managed to pull off a
successful public-service announcement: Dan Savage’s “ It Gets
Better ” project, aimed at giving hope to gay teenagers, recently
took down an anti-gay bullying PSA made by the  San Francisco
49ers  after a couple of the players who appeared in the video
said they had no idea what it was about.  In their brief, filed last week, Kluwe, a punter for the
 Minnesota Vikings , and Ayanbadejo, a linebacker for the
 Baltimore Ravens , argue that for “far too long, professional
sports have been a bastion of bigotry, intolerance and small-
minded prejudice toward sexual orientation.” Also last week, as
if to prove the two players’ thesis, some NFL teams were
grilling prospects about their sexual orientation during the
league’s scouting combine in Indianapolis. Among their
questions,  according to  University of Colorado player Nick Kasa:
Do you have a girlfriend? Are you married? Do you like girls?  Uncomfortable Questions  What are the odds that  Major League Baseball ’s general
managers are subjecting prospects to similar interrogations in
spring training in  Arizona  and  Florida ?  NFL teams ask these questions because they can. With the
exception of the handful of college stars destined to become
first-round draft picks, the vast majority of guys hoping to
play in the NFL are essentially interchangeable: They’re all
vulnerable job applicants in a violent, unforgiving business
where the  average career  lasts a little more than three years.
They aren’t protected by the NFL’s collective-bargaining
agreement, and even if they were, it wouldn’t apply at the
combine, which is run by a third party.  The line of questioning speaks not only to the NFL’S
homophobia but also to a deeper desire to control players’ lives
on and off the field. It’s football’s famous command-and-control
culture taken to its logical extreme.  A culture like this is always going to have dissidents.
Football has produced its share, from the inadvertently
political  Joe Namath , whose lifestyle landed him on President
 Richard Nixon ’s enemies list, to the self-consciously political
Dave Meggyesy, who quit the NFL in 1969, linking the game’s
militaristic mentality with Nixon’s own on his way out the door:
“It’s no accident that the most repressive political regime in
the history of this country is ruled by a football freak.” ( New
York  Jets coach Weeb Ewbank responded that Meggyesy, whose
memoir “Out of Their League” details his disillusionment with
the NFL, had fallen for “Communist hogwash” and accused him of
poisoning America’s youth.)  Namath and Meggyesy were products of both their league and
their political moment. What about Kluwe and Ayanbadejo?  It’s hard to imagine two pro football players writing a
brief like theirs 40, 20 or even 10 years ago. This is a more
progressive era, at least with respect to gay rights. Part of
the change is demographic. According to Kluwe, most of today’s
players don’t see what the big deal is about same-sex marriage,
even if the league itself seems determined to cling to its
“small-minded prejudice toward sexual orientation.”  Additional Significance  Kluwe and Ayanbadejo’s brief is significant for another
reason. It’s worth recalling what first drew Kluwe into the gay-
marriage debate, at least publicly: player solidarity. His
scathing (and hilarious)  open letter  to Maryland legislator C.
Emmett Burns Jr. was prompted by Burns’s effort to stop
Ayanbadejo’s outspoken support for a state initiative to
legalize same-sex marriage. (It passed.)  “We know that the owners are always going to try to make as
much money as they can,” Kluwe told me. “We’re the only ones who
are going to look out for each other, so we have to look out for
each other. It’s just an NFL thing.”  Kluwe isn’t just a product of the NFL; he’s a product of
 Roger Goodell ’s NFL. Commissioners have tangled with individual
players before, but Goodell has transformed tension into
polarization, essentially pitting the league against all of its
players. It started with the 2011 player lockout, and continued
through the witch hunt known as “Bountygate” and into last
year’s drawn-out referee lockout -- carried on despite the
obvious risks to player safety posed by replacement referees.  Don Van Natta Jr. gathers a lot of the string in  his
profile  of Goodell in ESPN the Magazine. (The commissioner
didn’t cooperate.) “It’s like a dictatorship,” Atlanta Falcons
wide receiver  Roddy White  told Van Natta. “Whatever he says,
that’s the end of it.”  Is it? Foment enough mistrust among your people, and they
will start to fight back, even if the specific dispute has
nothing to do with them. Teams have been asking intrusive
questions at the combine for years. Only now are players --
prospective, active, former -- starting to wonder if they are
appropriate, let alone legal. (In response, the NFL says it is 
looking into reports about the questions.)  Once this process starts, it’s hard to stop. Thousands of
former players are already involved in lawsuits against the NFL
over brain injuries. It may only be a matter of time before a
lot of current players start questioning a lot of things about
the NFL.  (Jonathan Mahler is a sports columnist for Bloomberg View.
He is the author of the best-selling “Ladies and Gentlemen, the
Bronx Is Burning” and “Death Comes to Happy Valley.” The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Mahler at  jmahler11@bloomberg.net  or  @jonathanmahler  on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 