-- EBay Falls on Growth Slowdown as Consumers Curbed Outlays
-- B y   L i s a   R a p a p o r t
-- 2013-03-06T16:35:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/ebay-falls-on-growth-slowdown-as-consumers-curbed-outlays.html
  EBay Inc. (EBAY) , operator of the world’s
largest online marketplace, fell the most in more than four
months after  Colin Sebastian , an analyst at Robert W. Baird,
said growth slowed in February as consumers curbed spending.  The shares declined 2.7 percent to $53.75 at 11:12 a.m. in
New York, and earlier touched $53.44 for the biggest intraday
decrease since Oct. 15. Through yesterday, the stock had
advanced 55 percent in the past year, compared with a 13 percent
gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Growth was in the “low teens” last month, compared with
the same period a year earlier, Sebastian wrote in a research
report today. Chief Executive Officer John Donahoe has been
working to sustain a turnaround since he succeeded Meg Whitman
in March 2008, pushing to generate more revenue from consumers
shopping on tablets and smartphones, and from retailers that use
EBay to sell their merchandise. That has resulted in 14 straight
quarters of sales growth.  “Slower (low teens) growth may reflect combined monthly
effects of a tougher comparison, consumer spending (e.g., higher
taxes) and some deceleration in the auto parts category,”
Sebastian wrote. He maintained his buy rating on the shares with
a $60 price target.  EBay surged to an eight-year high in January after fourth-
quarter revenue topped analysts’ estimates, helped by record
holiday sales on the Web and mobile devices.  On Cyber Monday in November, at the beginning of last
year’s holiday shopping season, transactions on EBay’s mobile
applications more than doubled from the year before, while
PayPal mobile-payment volume almost  tripled.  San Jose,
California-based EBay charges a fee for each item sold, and for
each PayPal transaction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Rapaport in New York at 
 lrapaport1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  