-- Yacktman Wins as Heebner Is Too Volatile: Riskless Return
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2013-03-06T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/heebner-meets-yacktman-atop-stock-funds-riskless-return.html
Donald Yacktman  and Kenneth Heebner
both crushed fund rivals over the past 13 years, racking up big
gains in an era when stocks went sideways. The difference is
Yacktman gave investors a smooth ride, Heebner anything but.  From March 2000 through last month, a span in which the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index returned less than 2 percent a year
amid two bear markets, Heebner’s $1.5 billion  CGM Focus Fund (CGMFX)  had
the best gain among large mutual funds that buy U.S. stocks. His
clients had to stomach the highest volatility, as the fund went
from an 80 percent jump in 2007 to a 48 percent drop in 2008.
The $9.6 billion  Yacktman Fund (YACKX) , fifth by total return, avoided
much of the roller-coaster ride to produce the top risk-adjusted
return, according to the BLOOMBERG RISKLESS RETURN RANKING.  Investors rewarded Yacktman, who employs an old-school buy-
and-hold strategy, with a wave of deposits that helped swell his
fund’s assets almost 30-fold in the past four years. The rapid-
trading Heebner suffered redemptions that chopped his fund’s
size by almost two-thirds since 2008, as customers fled in
response to what he calls “lumpy” performance.  “People want consistency as well as outperformance,”
Heebner said in a telephone interview from his Boston office.
“I don’t produce consistency.”  ‘Fear’ Factor  The risk-adjusted return, which isn’t annualized, is
calculated by dividing total return by volatility, or the degree
of daily price variation, giving a measure of income per unit of
risk. A higher volatility means the price of an asset can swing
dramatically in a short period, increasing the potential for
unexpected losses.  Ronald Sugameli, who helps oversee $1.7 billion, sold his
stake in Heebner’s fund in 2011 because he didn’t think the
money manager’s style meshed well with the needs of his clients.  “People are subject to fear,” Sugameli, chief investment
officer at Wellesley, Massachusetts-based Weston Financial Group
Inc., said in a telephone interview. “During bear markets they
often reach their risk limit and sell at the worst possible
time,” missing out on any subsequent rally.  Yacktman’s two mutual funds, the Yacktman Fund and the $8.3
billion Yacktman Focus Fund, attracted a net $13 billion in the
four years ended Dec. 31, data from Chicago-based  Morningstar
Inc. (MORN)  show. Heebner experienced $2.9 billion in withdrawals.  The Yacktman Fund’s risk-adjusted return was 20 percent
from March 24, 2000, the peak of the bull market that began in
1982, through Feb. 28, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The  S&P 500 Index  closed at 1527.46 on the first date and
1514.68 on the second.  Smaller Swings  Yacktman’s absolute return ranked him fifth among 329
diversified domestic stock funds with at least $1 billion in
assets. His volatility was lower than 92 percent of his peers.  Heebner had the highest volatility combined with the best
total return in the group. His risk-adjusted return of 15
percent placed 12th.  CGM Focus returned an annualized 14 percent over the almost
13-year stretch, compared with 13 percent for Yacktman Fund and
1.9 percent for the benchmark U.S. index, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Yacktman’s Focused Fund, which holds fewer stocks than his
larger fund, is also the best performer since Oct. 9, 2007, the
previous peak in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average , with an
annualized return of 11 percent. The benchmark closed yesterday
at an all-time high of 14,253.77. CGM Focus did the worst among
funds with at least $1 billion in assets that focus on large-cap
stocks or those of all sizes, losing an annualized 7.1 percent.  Separate Styles  Yacktman, 71, and Heebner, 72, graduated from Harvard
Business School two years apart in the 1960s. They run
concentrated portfolios, believing that making big investments
in their best ideas will produce superior results. Yacktman Fund
had 58 percent of its money in its top 10 holdings as of Dec.
31. Heebner had 76 percent in his 10 largest positions.  Beyond that, the two men travel separate paths. Heebner
pays close attention to the economy, using his observations as a
guide in picking stocks. Yacktman describes macroeconomic issues
as “fun to talk about” and barely useful. Heebner has made
hefty bets on industries sensitive to the economy, including
commodity producers and banks. Yacktman typically shuns both,
calling the former tough businesses in which to earn profits and
the latter too difficult to understand.  Heebner turns over the stocks in his portfolio at six times
the pace of peers, according to  Morningstar  data. Yacktman
trades one-fourth as often as the average domestic stock fund
manager.  Covering ‘Sins’  In approaching risk, Yacktman focuses on projected returns
for his companies, while Heebner looks at investor attitudes as
well as corporate math.  Yacktman said he views stocks as if they were bonds,
calculating the cash they generate relative to the price he
pays. He likens one of his main holdings, Cincinnati-based home
products maker  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , to an AAA-rated bond
because its results are so predictable.  The future at other holdings, such as Palo Alto,
California-based computer maker  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , is more
difficult to forecast. The stock is still attractive, said
Yacktman, because it’s cheap.  “A good price will cover up a lot of sins,” he said in a
telephone interview from Austin, Texas.  Yacktman’s ability to assess risk was on display during the
global financial crisis. He beat 95 percent of peers in 2008 by
building up cash and holding stable companies such as Procter &
Gamble, which lost 16 percent, compared with 38 percent for the
 S&P 500  Index.  Picking Fruit  By the end of the year, with stocks plunging, he spent his
cash on beaten-up New York-based media companies such as  News
Corp. (NWSA)  and  Viacom Inc. (VIAB)  News Corp. and Viacom climbed 51 percent
and 57 percent, respectively, in 2009 and Yacktman again beat 95
percent of rivals, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “When the storm comes through it shakes the fruit trees,”
he said. “When the fruit drops to the ground you can examine it
more easily and pick up the good stuff.”  Yacktman’s skill at navigating the twists of the crisis
impressed Patrick Ryan, a fellow portfolio manager.  “Anyone who outperformed in those two years was doing very
well,” Ryan, of Madison Asset Management LLC in Madison,
Wisconsin, said in a telephone interview. “It took a tremendous
amount of insight.”  Ryan’s company, which holds Yacktman’s fund for clients,
oversees $16 billion.  Not ‘Paid’  The Yacktman Fund has 35 percent of its  assets  in consumer
staple stocks, 7.3 percent in financials and carries a dividend
yield of 2.2 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
CGM Focus has 26 percent in financials, 9.2 percent in consumer
staples and a dividend yield of 0.9 percent.  Yacktman’s biggest  positions  are in multinationals
including News Corp., Procter & Gamble and Purchase, New York-
based  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)   “Right now you are not being paid to take a lot of risk,”
he said.  Last April,  Affiliated Managers Group Inc. (AMG)  of Beverly,
Massachusetts, agreed to buy Yacktman’s firm in a deal in which
Yacktman and other partners retained “substantial” equity.  For Heebner, the financial crisis ended a long streak of
superior performance.  Heebner generated returns averaging 32 percent in the eight
years ended Dec. 31, 2007, when the stock market returned an
annualized 1.7 percent. He bet against technology stocks early
in the decade before their collapse, bought homebuilders in 2003
ahead of their climb, and loaded up on energy companies in 2005
in time to benefit from soaring oil prices.  Contrarian Approach  When looking at a stock, Heebner tries to assess the
dangers a company faces that could lead to earnings
disappointments. He also gauges investor sentiment toward the
business, an admittedly subjective exercise, because he prefers
to be contrarian.  “If you own something everyone likes, it takes away some
of the opportunity,” Heebner said.  The manager’s instincts failed him in the second half of
2008 when commodity prices tumbled as the world economy
weakened. CGM Focus lost 56 percent in the year’s second half,
about double the decline suffered by the S&P 500, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Heebner blamed his underperformance in 2009 and 2011 on his
misreading of the economy.  ‘Didn’t Happen’  “I assumed a typical recovery and it didn’t happen,” he
said in a February interview. In 2011, investments in companies
such as New York-based  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Dearborn, Michigan-
based  Ford Motor Co. (F)  went awry and Heebner lost 26 percent, one
of the industry’s worst showings.  CGM Focus has outpaced the broader market since August as
homebuilders and financial stocks rallied. A rebound in home
prices will lift the economy and  consumer confidence , leading to
a stronger than anticipated  U.S. economy  over the next few
years, according to Heebner.  “We are going to see a big surprise,” he said.  Heebner wagered 21 percent of his fund at year-end on a bet
that  interest rates  will climb and Treasuries will decline in
price, according to a February regulatory filing.  He isn’t the only manager with a good long-term record to
see customers bail out when his fund went cold.  Bruce
Berkowitz ’s $7.5 billion  Fairholme Fund (FAIRX)  had $6.8 billion in
redemptions in 2011 as the fund lost 32 percent. Berkowitz
returned an annualized 11 percent in the 10 years ended Feb. 28,
versus 8.2 percent for the S&P 500 Index.  Patience Test  Berkowitz, in a February interview with Bloomberg
Television, said he was considering ways to tie up investors’
capital for longer. “We want to make sure we have a shareholder
base that understands the long-term nature of what we do,” he
said.  Heebner said he has no control over how customers react to
his ups and downs.  “The world isn’t going to come in huge numbers to invest
in this style,” he said. “People flock to what is working and
run away from what is not. They don’t have a long time horizon.
I invest in what I think will produce the best results.”  Heebner’s investors have to understand what they’re buying,
said Kevin McDevitt, a Morningstar analyst.  “If you own his fund, you can’t care about volatility,”
McDevitt said in a telephone interview. “Otherwise it can be an
incredibly difficult fund to hold. It is easier to be patient
with a manager like Yacktman.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Stein in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  