-- Legal & General Lifts Dividend 20% as Sales and Profits Grow
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2013-03-06T16:37:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/legal-general-raises-dividend-20-as-sales-and-earnings-grow.html
Legal & General Group Plc (LGEN) , the
biggest manager of U.K. pension assets, raised its dividend 20
percent after sales,  cash flow  and operating profit grew on
demand for retirement products in Britain.  The full-year payout will be 7.65 pence a share, up from
6.4 pence a share in 2011, the London-based insurer said today
in a statement. That beat the 7.43 pence average estimate of 21
analysts, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Operating
profit climbed 3 percent to 1.1 billion pounds ($1.7 billion) in
2012, matching the average  estimate  of 14 analysts.  Legal & General is betting lower state retirement and
welfare provisions will boost sales of pensions and income-
protection policies in the U.K. even as the economy sits on the
brink of a triple-dip recession. Differentiating itself from
rivals  Prudential Plc (PRU) , which focuses on Asia, and  Aviva Plc (AV/) ,
which has European assets, Legal & General is seeking to tap the
growing market for corporations offloading their pension
liabilities in the U.K. and the U.S.  “L&G’s ability to turn earnings into cash and to upstream
this cash was again demonstrated in these earnings,”  Alan Devlin , a London-based analyst at Barclays Plc with a buy rating
on the stock, wrote in a note to clients. The firm has “a
virtuous cycle of cash generation driving dividend increases and
mergers and acquisitions, which in turn drives future earnings
growth.”  Cash Flow  The shares closed at 166 pence, up 2 percent, in London.
They have gained 14 percent this year, giving the company a
market value of 9.8 billion pounds.  The firm’s net cash position climbed 2 percent to 865
million pounds, covering its dividend 1.9 times, Chief Executive
Officer Nigel Wilson said on a call with reporters. Legal and
General isn’t sensitive to the low  interest rates  that have hurt
other insurers, he said.  “We have very good visibility and certainty around a high-
quality cash flow which underpins the dividend,” he said.  RSA Insurance Group Plc (RSA) , the U.K.’s biggest non-life
insurer by market value, cut its payout 33 percent last month,
blaming a “prolonged low bond yield environment.” Aviva, a
rival to Legal & General as the U.K.’s second-biggest insurer by
market value, has a “very real possibility” of cutting its
dividend when it reports earnings later this week, according to
analysts at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  More Acquisitions  Legal & General is the “polar opposite” of Aviva, which
is having to sell assets to boost its capital position after it
was eroded by the European sovereign-debt crisis, Devlin said.  Sales of savings products rose 15 percent to 1.5 billion
pounds, while individual annuities were 26 percent higher at 132
million pounds. Legal & General Investment Management’s assets
rose 9 percent to 406 billion pounds in the year.  The insurer will target acquisitions in its existing areas
of expertise, Wilson said on the call.  “We started with cash, delivering high quality cash with a
high degree of certainty,” he said. “We moved to cash plus
organic growth, which we’ve done in the last year in particular.
For 2013, it’s cash plus organic growth plus bolt-on
acquisitions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in  London  at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 