-- Emerging Stocks Rise as Chavez Death Sinks Venezuela Debt
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-03-06T22:41:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/emerging-stocks-rise-to-two-week-high-on-china-inflow-u-s-data.html
Emerging-market stocks climbed the
most in two months as jobs and service industry data signaled
the U.S. economic recovery is gaining traction. Venezuelan bonds
declined after the death of President  Hugo Chavez .[bn:WBTKR=3988:HK]   []Brazil’s Bovespa had the biggest jump since July as
Petroleo Brasileiro SA soared the most in four years after
boosting diesel prices.  Samsung Electronics Co. , which got 20
percent of 2011 sales in the U.S., reached a two-month high in
Seoul. Yields on Venezuela’s 2027 dollar bonds rose to the
highest level since January. Kenya’s shilling had its biggest
drop against the dollar in more than a year amid delays in
presidential election results.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  rose 0.9 percent to
1,059.84 in New York, the most since Jan. 2. U.S. companies
added more workers than projected last month, while the
country’s non-manufacturing sector expanded. The U.S economy
expanded at a modest to moderate pace amid rising consumer
demand for homes and autos, the Federal Reserve said in its
Beige Book business survey today.  “We continue to gain jobs, and that ultimately will move
us forward,”  Bruce McCain , chief investment strategist at the
private-banking unit of KeyCorp in Cleveland, said in a phone
interview. His firm oversees more than $20 billion. “We’re on
pace for gradual improvement. And when you have lagging prices
in some of the emerging markets, that suggests we should see
better price action in those markets.”  U.S. Economy  Emerging equities joined gains in the U.S. as a private
report showed companies added 198,000 workers last month,
beating the median economist forecast. Service industries in the
country expanded in February at the fastest pace in a year,
according to a report yesterday. The 21 countries in the
developing-nations gauge send about 17 percent of their exports
to the U.S., data compiled by the World Trade Organization show.  China’s central bank and lenders bought a record net 683.7
billion yuan ($110 billion) of foreign currency in January, a
sign the nation’s emergence from its slowdown is spurring funds
to buy Chinese assets. Bank of China Ltd. added 2.5 percent in
Hong Kong as the yuan rallied.  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund gained 0.5 percent to $43.63. The  Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index , a gauge of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
dropped 1.5 percent to 17.37.  All 10 groups in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index rose as
energy, materials and financial shares had the biggest gains.
The broader gauge has added 0.4 percent this year, compared with
a 6.3 percent advance in the MSCI World Index of developed
nations. Shares in the developing-nation gauge are valued at
10.6 times projected 12-month earnings, versus the MSCI World’s
14 times, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Venezuela’s Bonds  Venezuela’s dollar-denominated bonds fell for a second day.
The yield on 9.25 percent bonds due in September 2027 climbed 28
basis points, or 0.28 percentage point, to 9.26 percent as of
5.24 p.m in New York, after rising nine basis points yesterday,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Five-year credit-
default  swaps  rose 20 basis points to 661 basis points today.  “The markets have already priced in a lot that Chavez
might die,”  Sergey Dergachev , a fund manager who oversees about
$9 billion at Union Investment Privatfonds in Frankfurt, said by
e-mail. “Now the risk is who will become the next president.
Investors are clearly nervous about where Venezuela will be
heading, and room for disappointment is there.”  Bovespa Gains  Brazil’s Bovespa rose 3.6 percent, the most since July.
Petrobras soared 9 percent, the most since December 2008, after
the state-controlled oil producer said the government
unexpectedly approved a 5 percent increase in diesel prices.
Trading volume was 2.6 times the three-month full day average,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Homebuilder  Urbi Desarrollos Urbanos SAB  jumped 19 percent,
the most since 2008, pushing the IPC Index up 0.3 percent.
Mexico will cover 30 percent of homebuilder losses, the
country’s Finance Ministry said today.  Kenya’s shilling weakened 1.5 percent to 86.75 against the
dollar, its biggest drop since January 2012 as results from
presidential elections March 4 were delayed.  Poland’s central bank cut its main interest rate by more
than economists estimated to a record low. The Zloty sank 0.9
percent versus the dollar, the second-biggest decline among 25
emerging market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The country’s
benchmark stock index rose 0.2 percent.  Russia’s Micex Index rose for a second day, adding 0.5
percent. Hungary’s BUX Index rose 0.5 percent as  OTP Bank , the
nation’s largest lender, added 0.4 percent.  Czech Republic  The Czech Republic’s PX Index added 1.2 percent.  CEZ AS 
rose 0.7 percent, climbing for a fourth day, its longest stretch
of gains since Dec. 21. Banco Espirito Santo SA recommended
buying the shares of the biggest Czech utility.  Turkey’s benchmark index advanced 1.4 percent, extending
its winning streak to eight days, the longest since Jan. 24.
 Turk Hava Yollari AO , Turkey’s flagship carrier, rallied 2.1
percent to a record high after data showed air traffic in the
country climbed an annual 13 percent last month.  South Africa’s FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index fell 0.3
percent.  MTN Group Ltd. , Africa’s biggest mobile phone operator,
slid 1.3 percent after full-year earnings missed analysts’
estimates.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index rose 1.7 percent,
while the  Shanghai Composite Index  advanced 0.9 percent. The
 Philippine Stock Exchange Index  added 1.8 percent. Vietnam’s VN
Index jumped 1.9 percent.  Purchase Data  Bank of China, the country’s third-biggest lender, climbed
2.5 percent. The benchmark money rate touched a one-week low
after the People’s Bank of China released the foreign-currency
purchase data.  China Cosco Holdings Co.  rose 4.9 percent after Transport
Minister Yang Chuantang said policies may be introduced to
support the shipping industry.  China Shipping Container Lines
Co.  added 4.8 percent, the biggest rally since Jan. 2.  ZTE Corp. , a phone-equipment maker, jumped 8.9 percent in
Hong Kong after a report on approval for fourth-generation
service spurred speculation carriers will boost spending. The
government may issue licenses for fourth-generation wireless
service this year, China Securities Journal reported today,
citing Minister of Industry and Information Technology  Miao Wei .  The extra yield investors demand to hold emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 281 basis points, according to the JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  