-- Emerging-Market Growth Slows on Services and Industry, HSBC Says
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2013-03-06T06:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/emerging-market-growth-slows-on-services-and-industry-hsbc-says.html
Emerging-market economic growth was
probably the weakest in seven months in February as global
demand declined for manufacturing and services, HSBC Plc said,
citing a survey of purchasing managers.  The HSBC  Emerging Markets  Index, which is compiled by
London-based Markit Economics and tracks conditions at more than
5,000 companies, fell to 52.3 in February from 53.9 in January,
HSBC said in a report today. Industrial production rose at the
slowest rate since November, while services growth was the
weakest in six months. A value above 50 indicates expansion and
below 50 signals contraction.  New business expansion slowed in all four of the so-called
BRIC economies --  China ,  India ,  Brazil  and  Russia  -- while
employment expanded at the slowest pace in three months, HSBC
said in the report. Growth remains a bigger concern than
inflation, according to the report. India, Columbia, Hungary and
Poland were developing-nation central banks to have cut rates
this year.  “The slowdown was felt pretty much across the board in
many economies in manufacturing and services,” Murat Ulgen,
HSBC’s London-based chief economist for central and eastern
 Europe  and sub-Saharan Africa, said yesterday in a phone
interview. “One of the main reasons is a slowdown in new
orders, in particular new export orders in the manufacturing
industry.”  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  has fallen 0.3 percent this
year, compared with a 8.1 percent gain for the S&P 500.  Improving Sentiment  The HSBC Emerging Markets Future Output Index, which gauges
company executives’ expectations for output in 12 months, rose
for a second month, to its highest since May 2012,  driven by
improving sentiment in the manufacturing industry, HSBC said.  “One scenario is that emerging markets will wobble along
with developed markets because there are so many headwinds and
challenges,” Ulgen said. “The alternative scenario is that
this slowdown is a soft patch -- it’s temporary. Once this
inventory adjustment works itself through, we’ll return to
fairly robust growth rates. We believe it’s a soft patch, mid-
cycle and the momentum will be regained.”  The rebound will be led by China, where the slowdown can be
attributed to the effects of the Chinese New year, Ulgen said.
Central and eastern Europe and Latin America are lagging
emerging Asia, he said.  Chinese business expectations for combined manufacturing
and services output rose to the strongest since April 2012.
Manufacturing expectations for the next 12 months were the
weakest in  Poland  and the Czech Republic, HSBC said in the
report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  