-- Emirates Airline Said to Hire Bank Group for Sukuk Sale
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2013-03-06T06:47:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/emirates-airline-said-to-hire-bank-group-for-sukuk-sale.html
Emirates, the world’s biggest
airline by international traffic, will start meetings with
investors tomorrow for a possible sale of Islamic bonds,
according to three people familiar with the matter.  The Dubai government-owned carrier hired Citigroup Inc.,
 Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) ,  Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank PJSC (ADCB) ,  Abu
Dhabi Islamic Bank PJSC (ADIB) ,  Dubai Islamic Bank PJSC (DIB)  and Emirates
NBD Capital Ltd. to arrange the meetings, said the bankers, who
asked not to be identified because the details aren’t public.
The sukuk will be denominated in dollars, they said.  Emirates raised $750 million from the sale of 12-year bonds
in January. The senior unsecured notes were priced to yield 300
basis points, or three percentage points, above the seven-year
U.S. dollar mid-swap rate, bankers familiar with the matter said
Jan. 31. The amortizing bonds, which mature in February 2025,
have a weighted average life of seven years.  Sales of Islamic bonds from Dubai have posted the best
start to a year since 2006 as the government takes steps to form
a global hub for Shariah-compliant finance in the emirate.
Dubai-based issuers tripled Islamic bond sales last year to $4.6
billion as the city’s borrowing costs dropped twice as much as
the global average for Shariah-compliant notes.  Profit at the Emirates Group fell to 2.31 billion dirhams
($629 million) in the year ended March 31, 2012 compared with
5.95 billion dirhams a year earlier as fuel costs rose. The
airline will be more profitable this year, President  Tim Clark 
said Feb. 10.  Passenger traffic through Dubai’s airport jumped 15 percent
in January to a record 5.56 million, according to data released
last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  