-- Employees Belong in Cities, Not Just in Cubicles
-- B y   E d w a r d   G l a e s e r
-- 2013-03-06T23:55:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/employees-belong-in-cities-not-just-in-cubicles.html
Critics of  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) ’s recent ban
on telecommuting say the policy will hurt productivity, while
supporters say that making employees come into the office will
help the struggling company.  But the  decision , issued by  Marissa Mayer , the chief
executive officer, makes a larger point: Technological progress
makes face-to-face contact more, not less, important. A
complicated world needs personal interactions, and the cities
that enable those interactions, to promote innovation.  Telecommuting itself is neither always right nor always
wrong. Many commentators point to a recent study in which
Chinese call-center workers were randomly chosen to work at
home. The study, by Stanford University economist Nicholas Bloom
and three co-authors,  found  that telecommuters were 13 percent
more productive, with 9 percent of the increase coming from
working more minutes per shift and 4 percent from handling more
calls a minute.  The workers who stayed home were also more satisfied with
their jobs, which isn’t surprising given  China ’s arduous
commutes and often difficult working conditions.  Yet manning a call center can be simple, and simple tasks
provide the best case for telecommuting. Productivity is easy to
measure, especially if you care more about speed than customer
satisfaction. Typically, companies don’t ask their call-center
workers to be wildly creative. The relatively routine nature of
these jobs explains why these places are often located in low-
density areas of the U.S., such as  Sioux Falls ,  South Dakota , or
are outsourced across the planet.  Zappos Success  One company -- Zappos.com Inc. -- has a different vision
for its call centers. It has embraced face-to-face connections
within the company and has close ties to the urban area where it
is based. (Disclosure: I have given a paid talk at Zappos.)
Zappos expects its salespeople to turn every phone conversation
into a personalized interaction that cements the tie between
customer and company.  That is specialized, even innovative work. It made sense
that the company chose the  Las Vegas  area, with its cluster of
hospitality and entertainment workers trained in personal
interactions, over  California ’s Silicon Valley as its base.  Employees work closely together, and the chief executive
officer, Tony Hsieh, thinks that the company will become even
more creative by moving into the city center.  Humans can function perfectly well at home, but our
greatest gift is the ability to borrow knowledge from the people
around us. I can write sitting in my bedroom, but every decent
idea I’ve ever had was the result of conversations with
colleagues and students.  Experiments  show  that face-to-face contact makes it easier
to resolve conflict and increase cooperation. I have
collaborators across the planet, but those interactions all
began in person.  Trading floors epitomize that kind of contact in a
knowledge-intensive industry. In most sectors, people as wealthy
as traders occupy comfortable offices with large desks, oak
paneling and executive assistants. But trading floors eschew all
that privacy because knowledge trumps space. There is no
industry where insight can be transformed into a fortune more
quickly than finance, which is why traders put up with dense
workplaces and dense cities.  Although companies in all sectors can get good value out of
stay-at-home workers, evidence shows that these employees often
find that their work-related human capital hits a plateau.
Spatial isolation means intellectual isolation from the
experiences and ideas that circulate in office buildings and
flow in client meetings.  Urban Advantage  Hundreds of studies have  documented  how globalization and
new technologies have increased returns in skill and education.
My own work  finds  that while newcomers to cities don’t earn
higher wages immediately, they experience faster wage growth,
year by year, as they acquire skills.  Similarly, the Bloom study of the Chinese call-center
workers also found that stay-at-home workers were less likely to
be promoted, holding productivity constant, perhaps because they
were less likely to acquire the knowledge that comes from being
in the office. As ideas become more complicated, they are easier
to lose in translation.  Thirty years ago the cyberseers predicted that new
technology would make face-to-face contact, and the cities that
facilitate that interaction, obsolete. The technoprophets were
just as wrong as the geniuses who  thought telephones  would halt
urban growth.  If technology made in-person contact unnecessary, then
Mayer’s former employer,  Google Inc. (GOOG) , would have gotten rid of
crowded working quarters. Instead, the company developed the
Googleplex -- a vast office complex that physically connects its
workers. The Googleplex provides amenities, such as volleyball
courts and laundry rooms, meant to keep workers together for as
long as possible in the hope that ideas continue to flow.  Facebook (FB)  Inc. is building what Chief Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  calls “the perfect engineering space: one giant room
that fits thousands of people, all close enough to collaborate
together.”  Mayer’s telecommuting ban at Yahoo builds on her experience
at Google. Although the ban is extreme -- telecommuting would
still make sense for some of the company’s workers some of the
time -- it enabled Mayer to dramatically stress the advantages
of face time. And a broad ban is easier to enforce than a more
nuanced policy. To make it work, she may be pushed to provide
more family-oriented amenities in the workplace.  The new Facebook site, the Googleplex and Yahoo’s
telecommuting ban all demonstrate the technology industry’s
awareness of the value of human connection within companies. But
are they sufficiently attentive to this interaction outside
their walls? The researcher AnnaLee Saxenian’s  account  of the
rise of Silicon Valley emphasizes the importance of links across
companies.  Outside Inspiration  Jane Jacobs  made a strong case that cities have long
thrived by enabling intellectual exchange across industries and
companies. A dressmaker invents the brassiere. A financier
becomes an information-technology magnate. These leaps are
easier in a dense, diverse metropolis, because there are many
sources of insight and inspiration.  Maybe high technology is different, and it needs only learn
from its own experts. Maybe Yahoo already has access to all the
creative people it needs within its Sunnyvale, California,
headquarters, as long as they don’t telecommute.  But history hasn’t been kind to big companies that looked
inward. I suspect that to succeed in the long run, Mayer is
going to be at least as focused on having Yahoo’s workers learn
from outsiders as from insiders.  ( Edward Glaeser , an economics professor at  Harvard
University , is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the author of
“Triumph of the City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Edward Glaeser at  eglaeser@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 