-- EU to Press Ahead With Budget-Cutting Strategy at Summit
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2013-03-06T14:43:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/eu-to-press-ahead-with-budget-cutting-strategy-at-summit.html
European Union leaders will press
ahead with budget-cutting efforts next week as they search for
ways to ease economic strains, according to draft conclusions
for a March 14-15 summit in Brussels.  “Substantial progress is being made toward structurally
balanced budgets and must continue,” according to the draft,
which was prepared March 4 and obtained by Bloomberg News. EU
nations are urged to adopt an “appropriate mix” of tax and
spending measures that includes short-term support for
investment and youth employment.  Leaders will also call for completion in “the coming
weeks” of deliberations on how the European Central Bank will
assume oversight of euro-area lenders, according to the
document. They will seek to wrap up proposals to make
bondholders pay a greater share of bank-failure costs by June,
and they’ll endorse efforts to design a central EU agency to
handle troubled financial firms.  At the summit, leaders will confront what the European
Commission projects will be the first ever back-to-back annual
contraction for the euro-zone economy since the common
currency’s 1999 debut. The 17-nation currency bloc is projected
to shrink 0.3 percent in 2013 after a 0.6 percent contraction
last year.  Budget Rules  Countries like  Germany ,  Finland ,  Belgium  and Luxembourg
have continued to grow while the financial crisis has wreaked
havoc on nations like Spain, Greece and  Portugal .  France  is
straddling the middle, forecast to eke out a 0.1 percent
expansion this year, while a backlash against austerity has
thrust  Italy  into political limbo and shattered months of
relative stability in European markets.  The EU leaders will renew their endorsement of new budget
rules that are due to take effect later this year, according to
the draft. The measures, now in the final stages of legislative
approval, will give the commission expanded oversight powers
that include an advance look at national budget policies before
countries enact them, steps that are a central plank of the EU’s
economic governance strategy.  “Continuing uncertainties on financial markets together
with the stagnation of economic activity projected for 2013 and
unacceptably high levels of unemployment emphasize how crucial
it is to continue with these efforts as a matter of priority and
to implement decisions taken,” according to the document.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  