-- Euro Exports Fell in Fourth Quarter as Slump Deepened: Economy
-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 2013-03-06T12:10:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/euro-area-economy-slumped-in-fourth-quarter-on-trade-investment.html
Euro-area exports  fell in the fourth
quarter for the first time in more than three years and
investment declined as the sovereign debt crisis pushed the
region deeper into a recession.  Shipments from the euro area dropped 0.9 percent in the
last three months of 2012, helping to drive gross domestic
product down 0.6 percent, the European Union’s statistics office
in Luxembourg said today. Exports last declined in the second
quarter of 2009. Imports also fell 0.9 percent in the fourth
quarter.  “Real economic activity is yet to show major improvement
in many countries and it looks highly likely that growth will
remain a major struggle for the euro zone for some time to
come,”  Howard Archer , chief European economist at IHS Global
Insight in London, wrote in a note today.  The 17-nation currency bloc’s economy recorded a  third
straight decline  in the fourth quarter, a trend that will
continue in the first three months of 2013, according to a
Bloomberg News survey of economists. The European Commission
sees the economy shrinking 0.3 percent this year.  The  European Central Bank  will maintain its benchmark
interest rate at 0.75 percent tomorrow with the euro area mired
in a recession and political instability in Italy after an
inconclusive election, according to a separate  Bloomberg survey .
The ECB will also update its economic forecasts.  ‘Political Complacency’  “From the economic point of view you could justify a rate
cut now or in the coming month, but at the same time we also do
see that political complacency has joined the game again,”
 Carsten Brzeski , senior economist at ING Group in Brussels, said
on March 4. “The ECB would be very hesitant to do something as
long as we have this new political uncertainty in Italy.”  Italian voters in a Feb. 24-25 election rejected the
German-inspired austerity put into practice by outgoing Prime
Minister  Mario Monti , denying a majority in parliament to front-
runner Pier Luigi Bersani and throwing the country into
political chaos. Monti blamed crisis-management mistakes at the
European level for his defeat.  “Austerity doesn’t work; the impact on Italian consumers
is catastrophic,”  Sergio Marchionne , chief executive officer of
Italian carmaker  Fiat SpA (F) , said yesterday at the  Geneva Motor
Show . “I understand austerity, but we can lose weight until we
die.”  German Contraction  Gross fixed capital formation dropped 1.1 percent from the
previous three months, when it fell a revised 0.8 percent,
today’s report showed.  Consumer spending  was down 0.4 percent,
while  government spending  slipped 0.1 percent.  In Germany, Europe’s largest economy, GDP fell 0.6 percent
in the fourth quarter, compared with a 0.2 percent increase in
the previous three months. France’s economy contracted 0.3
percent, while Italy’s GDP dropped 0.9 percent. Spain’s economy
shrank 0.8 percent.  As euro area finance ministers meeting in Brussels earlier
this week grappled with Italy’s austerity backlash and a bailout
request from Cyprus, German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  indicated
that she is sensitive to criticisms that budget cutting has been
overdone.  “We’ve done a lot to stabilize the euro,” Merkel said in
Hanover on March 4. “We’ve done quite a bit to consolidate
budgets, but we always have this discussion about growth, and
don’t quite have the answers for where the growth should come
from.”  Europe’s economic gloom contrasted with news from
Australia, whose economy expanded in 2012 at the fastest pace in
five years as resource investment and exports outweighed subdued
manufacturing and construction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  