-- European 2014 Coal Drops to Record as Supply Set to Increase
-- B y   M a r e k   S t r z e l e c k i
-- 2013-03-06T12:30:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/european-2014-coal-drops-to-record-as-supply-set-to-increase.html
European coal for next year dropped
to a record as supply from  Colombia  may be boosted after an
accord between striking workers and management at the nation’s
largest mine.  Thermal coal for delivery in 2014 to Amsterdam, Rotterdam
or Antwerp fell as much as 0.6 percent to $95.50 a metric ton,
the lowest level since the contract started trading in January
2010, according to broker data compiled by Bloomberg. It was at
$95.55 at 12:29 p.m. in  London .  Striking workers at Colombia’s Cerrejon mine show a
“certain tendency toward approving” an agreement reached
between union leaders and management on March 4, Sintracarbon
union spokeswoman Luz Maria Tobon said in a phone interview. The
country exported 79.4 million tons of coal last year, of which
55 percent went to European Union countries, according to
Michael Hsueh, a London-based analyst at Deutsche Bank AG.  Rio Tinto Group (RIO)  was set to resume operations at its Benga
mine in  Mozambique  after reopening a rail line to a sea port
shut since Feb. 20 due to rain damage, Eqstra Holding Ltd. said
in a statement.  A recent weakening of the euro against the dollar has also
contributed to falling coal prices, according to Paolo Coghe, a
Paris-based analyst at Societe Generale SA. The euro has lost 4
percent against the greenback since Jan. 31.  “In the current environment characterized by low demand,
any real or perceived increase in supply is going to impact
prices negatively,” the analyst said by e-mail.  Bloomberg tracks broker data from ICAP Plc, GFI Group Inc.,
Marex Spectron Group Ltd., Credit Suisse Group AG, IHS
McCloskey, Tradition Financial Services and Tullett Prebon Plc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marek Strzelecki in Warsaw at 
 mstrzelecki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  