-- European Energy Exchange’s New Gas Contracts May Reduce Prices
-- B y   J u l i a   M e n g e w e i n
-- 2013-03-06T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/european-energy-exchange-s-new-gas-contracts-may-reduce-prices.html
The European Energy Exchange AG,
continental Europe’s second-biggest natural-gas bourse, plans to
introduce German gas products in October that may reduce
network-management costs and prices for end-users of the fuel.  The exchange’s new contracts will allow for trading in
Dutch and German gas with unique technical specifications and is
likely to boost trading by  Germany ’s two market area managers,
Eileen Hieke, an EEX spokeswoman based in Leipzig, Germany, said
Feb. 26 by e-mail.  The products will enable NetConnect Germany GmbH in
Ratingen, Germany, and its Berlin-based counterpart  Gaspool GmbH 
to buy more gas on the exchange to balance their networks, which
entails maintaining proper pressure levels in pipelines with the
correct class of fuel. A larger number of buyers and sellers
means better prices, and the specific qualities of gas traded
will eliminate fees to convert gas.  “It is a simple question of supply and demand,” Ina
Domin, a spokeswoman for NetConnect Germany based in Ratingen,
said Feb. 4 by phone. “On the exchange, there is just more of
both, which means we can get better prices.”  Lower balancing costs benefit users of the gas
infrastructure, such as utilities, which can then pass on lower
prices to their customers, according to the rules of German
regulator Federal Networks Agency. NetConnect Germany has cut
its gas-balancing costs by increasing the share of balancing gas
bought on exchanges to 81 percent in the second half of 2012,
from 54 percent in the second half of 2011.  Methane Content  Germany’s gas networks comprise two different types of
pipelines. Grids in the northwest are designed to transport gas
produced in fields in the Netherlands and Germany, which
contains about 80 percent methane. The rest of the nation’s
pipes ship gas produced elsewhere, with a methane content of as
much as 99 percent. Higher methane content increases the fuel’s
calorific, or energy, value.  Gaspool and NetConnect Germany, some of whose pipelines
only transport low-calorific gas, now have to pay a conversion
fee for high-calorific fuel on the EEX, or they turn to the less
liquid bilateral market, according to the market balancing rules
set by the Federal Networks Agency. EEX is in discussions with
NetConnect and Gaspool about the details of the new contracts,
Hieke said.  Gaspool bought 632,880 megawatt-hours of low-calorific day-
ahead balancing gas via its bilateral market so far this year at
an average price of 27.63 euros ($35.97) a megawatt-hour,
according to data published on the  company’s website . That
compares with an average day-ahead price of 26.70 euros a
megawatt-hour this year so far on the EEX’s German day-ahead gas
market, according to  EEX data on Bloomberg .  EEX ranks second to APX-Endex Holding BV, continental
 Europe ’s biggest natural-gas exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Mengewein in Frankfurt at 
 jmengewein@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  