-- Ex-Deutsche Bank Worker Says He Was Fired Over Complaints
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-03-06T22:32:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/ex-deutsche-bank-worker-says-he-was-fired-over-complaints.html
A former Deutsche AG Bank unit
executive filed a lawsuit alleging the bank terminated him in
retaliation for his complaints about the operational systems
problems.  Gary DeDilectis worked as director of equity operations and
asset servicing for Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. from December
2007 until he was terminated in January 2012 without warning or
explanation, according to the complaint he filed today in
 Manhattan  federal court.  He was let go “because of and in retaliation for his
complaints and concerns” about matters including the alleged
overcharging of U.K. investors and “regulatory misconduct
amounting to fraud,” according to the complaint.  DeDilectis alleged that he reported to superiors that a
weekend systems enhancement in November 2011 caused about
$1 million in overcharges of the U.K. stamp tax, which applies
to transfers of shares and securities. He said the overcharges
to customers violated U.S. securities laws and regulations.  “We have investigated these allegations and found his
claims to be without merit,”  Duncan King , a spokesman for
Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank, said in a telephone interview.  King said the bank has also investigated DeDilectis’s
allegations regarding the U.K. stamp overcharges.  “Monies were inadvertently withheld on certain tax
transactions deposited with the U.K. Inland Revenue Service,”
King said. “Deutsche Bank has been working with clients to
rectify the situation.”  The case is DeDilectis v. Deutsche Bank Securities Inc.,
13-cv-01504, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  