-- Mexico Offers to Cover Up to 30% of Bank Loans to Homebuilders
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-03-06T21:37:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/mexico-offers-to-cover-up-to-30-of-bank-loans-to-homebuilders.html
Mexico is offering to cover as much
as 30 percent of banks’ losses on loans made to the nation’s
homebuilders, reducing concern about the industry’s ability to
access financing.  The mortgage development bank known as Sociedad Hipotecaria
Federal will offer guarantees to commercial banks to boost
lending for housing by as much 50 percent, according to a
government statement today. Under the program, Mexican
homebuilders with “healthy balance sheets” will have access to
additional funding of as much as 15 billion pesos ($1.2
billion).  Mexican homebuilders’ shares and bonds surged after the
announcement. The  Habita index  of homebuilder jumped 11.4
percent today, paring its loss this year to 9.9 percent.  Yields on dollar debt from Desarrolladora Homex SAB,
Mexico’s biggest homebuilder, tumbled 93 basis points, or 0.93
percentage point, to 9.81 percent today, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It’s the biggest yield drop on a closing
basis since they were issued in February 2012.  The yield on dollar debt from Urbi Desarrollos Urbanos SAB
due in 2022 declined 80 basis points to 13 percent, extending
its 38 basis point drop yesterday. Urbi’s shares surged 18.5
percent, heading to its biggest one-day rise since October 2008.  “If one of these companies has liquidity problems,
especially the big companies, they can present to the banks a
viable project and if the banks accept the project, they won’t
have a problem,” Jesus Alberto Cano Velez, who heads  Mexico ’s
mortgage development bank, told reporters today at an event in
Mexico City.  Investors have pummeled securities from Mexican
homebuilders this year amid disappointing earnings and ratings
cuts. Concern for the sector has also been exacerbated since
President Enrique Pena Nieto said Feb. 11 that he’ll use the
government’s subsidized-housing program to promote apartment
construction in cities, which require longer planning, building
and sales cycles than single-construction housing.  Fitch Ratings and Standard & Poor’s cut Urbi’s credit
rating by two levels this month after fourth-quarter profits
fell 39 percent short of analysts’ estimates. Last month Homex
reported a surprise fourth-quarter loss, deepening concerns the
industry won’t be able to generate enough cash to pay off debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  