-- Exxon Mobil Made No Specific MTBE Warnings: Witness
-- B y   S a r a h   E a r l e   a n d   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2013-03-07T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/exxon-mobil-made-no-specific-mtbe-warnings-witness-tells.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. found no need to
issue warnings about MTBE to customers, a former employee
testified in the  New Hampshire  trial over whether the company is
liable for contaminating water with the gasoline additive.  The Irving, Texas-based oil company is trying to convince a
jury that  federal law  required the use of the additive, methyl
tertiary butyl ether, and that it didn’t harm anyone in New
Hampshire. The company began presenting its case March 4 in
Concord in a trial that started Jan. 14.  Victor Dugan, who retired last year from Exxon, testified
March 5 that the additive was extensively researched before
being added to fuel in 1985 to reduce air pollution, and that
its benefits outweighed the risks. Gasoline dealers and
distributors were given adequate warnings about the hazards of
gasoline and how to deal with leaks, he said.  Cross-examining Dugan yesterday, Jessica Grant, a lawyer
for the state, asked why the company hadn’t released specific
warnings about MTBE. She also asked about the decision to use
the additive nationwide after testing it in selected markets.  “We followed it cradle to grave and found that it did not
pose a risk,” Dugan said. “It was leaking underground storage
tanks that posed the risk.”  Exxon Mobil  is the last defendant in the $818 million
 lawsuit  over claims that  oil companies  knew MTBE would
contaminate groundwater and didn’t alert the state to the risks.  “There is simply no MTBE crisis,” Charles Engelmann, a
company spokesman, said by e-mail. “MTBE hasn’t been used in
the state since 2005, and there is not a single personal injury
being claimed in this lawsuit.”  Economist’s Testimony  The state seeks damages from Exxon Mobil based on its share
of gasoline sales in New Hampshire during the period covered by
the lawsuit. An economist testified for the state that it was
about 30 percent. Based on an estimated cost of $818 million to
test, monitor and clean up wells, New Hampshire might be seeking
at least $245 million from the company.  Exxon Mobil (XOM)  challenged the estimate, saying refinery data
would have shown a market share as low as 6.9 percent.  In  Maryland  last week a court of appeals reversed two jury
verdicts against Exxon Mobil in MTBE cases in which plaintiffs
won $1.65 billion on claims of financial and property damage
from an underground leak in 2006 that released MTBE into the
water. The appeals court said Exxon Mobil hadn’t made fraudulent
statements and the plaintiffs failed to show physical harm.  Exxon Mobil is the sole defendant on trial in New Hampshire
since Citgo Petroleum Corp., the Houston-based unit of Petroleos
de Venezuela SA, the country’s state-owned oil company, agreed
last month to a $16 million settlement.  Multiple Cases  New Hampshire’s suit is one of scores of cases involving
MTBE filed since 2000 against refiners, fuel distributors and
chemical makers. Other cases were consolidated in federal court
in  New York  for pretrial evidence-gathering and motions.  A federal jury in 2009 ordered Exxon Mobil to pay  New York
City  $104.7 million after finding it liable for polluting wells
in the city. The company has appealed.  New Hampshire in 2003 sued Exxon Mobil, Shell Oil Co.,
Sunoco Inc.,  ConocoPhillips (COP) , Irving Oil Ltd., Vitol SA,  Hess
Corp. (HES)  and Citgo.  The company argues that in adding MTBE to gasoline it was
complying with federal regulations, which pre-empt state law.
The additive was used to make gasoline burn more thoroughly to
reduce air pollution, as required under the 1990  Clean Air Act .  Studies by the  American Petroleum Institute  were cited in
court showing that at mid-to-high levels of ingestion or
inhalation, MTBE elevated the risk of brain tumors,  liver
cancer , blood cancer and kidney cancer in mice and rats.  Health Studies  Exxon Mobil said there has been no evidence that MTBE
causes illness in humans.  MTBE is highly soluble in water and can be carried great
distances from the source of leaks. It leaked from gas stations,
vehicle junkyards, underground  storage tanks  and pipe fittings,
the state said.  The state estimated that about 40,000 New Hampshire wells
are contaminated with MTBE and that 5,590 have levels determined
to be unfit for drinking. The state said that level is 13 parts
of MTBE per billion parts of water.  The case is State of New Hampshire v. Hess Corp., 03-
C-0550, New Hampshire Superior Court, Merrimack County
(Concord).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Earle in Concord, New Hampshire,
at   sarahearle.nh@gmail.com ;
Don Jeffrey in New York
at   djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  