-- Facebook Names UCSF Chancellor Susan Desmond-Hellmann to Board
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-03-07T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/facebook-names-ucsf-chancellor-susan-desmond-hellmann-to-board.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  said Susan Desmond- Hellmann, chancellor of the  University of California  at  San
Francisco , was elected as a director, adding a second woman to
the board following calls for more diversity.  Desmond-Hellmann, 55, previously served as president of
product development at biotechnology company  Genentech  Inc.,
where she worked for 14 years, Menlo Park, California-based
Facebook said yesterday in a statement. The appointment brings
the company’s total board count to nine members.  Facebook -- the largest social network, with more than 1
billion users around the world -- is diversifying its board to
better reflect its membership, after advocacy groups last year
urged the addition of women and minorities. The company in June
named its first female director, Chief Operating Officer  Sheryl Sandberg , who has championed women’s efforts for advancement
among executive ranks.  “Sue has a great track record of building and managing a
diverse set of organizations, so her insights will be valuable
as we continue to expand into new areas,” Facebook Chief
Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  said in the statement. “Her
experience shaping public policy and operating public companies
fits well with the rest of the board and will make us an even
stronger company.”  Top Ranking  As chancellor of UCSF, Desmond-Hellmann oversees the
university and medical center’s strategy and operations. The
university  ranked  No. 2 in clinical medicine and pharmacy in
2012, according to the Academic Ranking of World Universities.
Desmond-Hellmann is also a director at consumer-products maker
 Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)   At Genentech, her responsibilities included process
research and development, business development and product
portfolio management, according to Facebook. Desmond-Hellmann
brought “numerous cutting-edge cancer medicines” to market,
Facebook said. Her tenure at the biotech company coincided with
that of Facebook Chief Financial Officer  David Ebersman , who
worked at Genentech until 2009.  Desmond-Hellmann also is a trustee for the Howard Hughes
Medical Institute, a nonprofit research organization. She
finished clinical training at her university and is board
certified in internal medicine and medical oncology. She also
holds a master’s degree in public health from the University of
California at Berkeley.  The appointment follows a push by Zuckerberg and Sandberg
to encourage sharing of organ-donor status on Facebook’s site
last year. The effort aimed to spur more donations and ease wait
times for transplants.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  