-- Factory Orders in U.S. Fall by the Most in Five Months
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2013-03-06T15:40:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/factory-orders-in-u-s-fell-2-in-january-on-defense-cutbacks.html
Orders to U.S. factories fell in
January by the most in five months, weighed down by a slump in
demand for military hardware and commercial aircraft.  Bookings dropped 2 percent after a revised 1.3 percent
increase in December, Commerce Department data showed today in
Washington. Economists projected a 2.2 percent decline,
according to the  median forecast  in a Bloomberg survey. Demand
for durable goods decreased 4.9 percent, little changed from the
5.2 percent drop estimated last week, while non-durables climbed
0.6 percent on gains in petroleum and chemicals.  The biggest jump in machinery including construction
equipment and generators in almost five years is helping boost
manufacturing. A pickup in business spending indicates companies
are looking beyond the fiscal-policy battles in Washington as
sales improve.  “Manufacturing is looking a bit stronger than it was in
the second half of last year,” Robert Mellman, senior economist
at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York, said before the report.
“Housing is going gangbusters, other parts of the economy are
doing better, and the inventory cycle has turned positive.
Foreign demand in some places might start to pick up.”  Estimates of 63 economists ranged from declines of 0.5
percent to 4.5 percent. The Commerce Department revised the
December figure from an initially estimated 1.8 percent gain.  Excluding transportation equipment, factory orders rose 1.3
percent in January after a 0.1 percent drop the prior month.
 Boeing Co. (BA) , the Chicago-based aerospace company, said it
received two orders in January, down from 183 the prior month.
Boeing is contending with safety concerns related to batteries
on its 787 Dreamliner.  Military Orders  Orders for military capital goods slumped 69.7 percent
after jumping 107.2 percent in December, today’s report showed.
Excluding defense, bookings rose 0.3 percent in January after
declining 0.2 percent the prior month.  While these orders are volatile month to month, they
highlight the risk that across-the-board  federal budget  cuts,
known as sequestration, represent for the world’s largest
economy. About $1.2 trillion in reductions over the next decade
began taking effect at the start of March.  Orders for capital goods excluding aircraft and military
equipment, a measure of future business investment, advanced 7.2
percent, the biggest gain since September 2004, after falling
0.8 percent in December. The gain was revised up from the 6.3
percent increase reported in last week’s durable goods report.  Shipments of such equipment, which are used in calculating
gross domestic product, decreased 1.1 percent after a 0.1
percent gain the prior month.  Machinery Demand  Orders for machinery climbed 15.6 percent in January, led
by a 57.3 percent gain in construction gear that was the biggest
since September 2011.  Factory inventories increased 0.5 percent in January, and
manufacturers had enough goods on hand to last 1.28 months at
the current sales pace, compared with 1.27 months in December.  Along with sequestration, on Jan. 1, Congress allowed the
payroll tax that funds Social Security to rise to 6.2 percent
from 4.2 and allowed taxes on top income earners to rise. While
retail sales have not yet declined in the wake of the higher
levies, future weakness could limit gains in manufacturing.  Demand from businesses, nonetheless, looks to be holding
up. Business investment was a bright spot last quarter as
spending on equipment and software  grew  at an 11.3 percent rate,
the fastest in more than a year. Depleted inventories may also
signal a first-quarter pickup in production.  Factory Gains  American factories expanded in February at the fastest pace
in almost two years, according to the Institute for Supply
Management’s factory index. The gauge rose to 54.2, the highest
reading since June 2011, the Tempe, Arizona-based group said
March 1. Readings greater than 50 signal expansion.  “From where we sit today, we feel like most of the excess
inventory has been worked out,” Craig Arnold, chief operating
officer of industrial equipment maker  Eaton Corp. (ETN) , said during a
March 1 analyst conference. “Our underlying demand is matching
retail sales. We’re optimistic that at this point to the extent
that we see real underlying demand in the market that we once
again see a multiple of that as it impacts our businesses.”  To ensure the expansion maintains traction, Federal Reserve
policy makers have pursued unprecedented monetary easing. Fed
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke last month, testifying before the
Senate Banking Committee, defended the Fed’s $85 billion a month
in asset purchases and near-zero target interest rate, saying
that “monetary policy is providing important support to the
recovery.”  “Notably, keeping longer-term interest rates low has
helped spark recovery in the housing market and led to increased
sales and production of automobiles and other durable goods,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  