-- Finnish Power Imports From Russia Plunge to Zero for First Time
-- B y   T o r s t e n   F a g e r h o l m
-- 2013-03-06T11:04:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/finnish-power-imports-from-russia-plunge-to-zero-for-first-time.html
Finnish power imports from  Russia 
dropped to zero for the first time as electricity shipments to
the Nordic country became unprofitable.  Finland imported nothing from Russia on a 1,400-megawatt
link that connects the countries from 8 a.m. to 10 a.m. Helsinki
time today, the first time since high-voltage links were put in
place between the countries in 1981, grid operator Fingrid’s
 data  showed.  Russia levies a capacity tariff of about 25 euros ($32.60)
megawatt-hour on power exports at times of peak demand in
mornings and afternoons, according to Fingrid. The tariff,
introduced in 2006 to secure revenues for owners and builders of
power-plant capacity, hurts Russian power export monopoly  OAO
Inter Rao UES (IRAO) ’s ability to compete with Nordic generators.  “We would lose money from buying electricity on the
Russian market and shipping it to Finland during peakload
hours,” said Marja Rasi-Kurronen, the Helsinki-based head of
cross-border trading RAO Nordic Oy, a subsidiary of Inter Rao.
She declined to comment on specific prices.  Finland’s share of Russian power exports fell to 3.8
terawatt-hours last year, or 21 percent of Russia’s total
exports, from a 56 percent share in 2010, according to  data  on
Inter Rao’s website.  Viable Exports  “Today, power on the Russian  spot market  costs roughly
1,000 rubles ($32.60) per megawatt-hour, while power sold in
Finland costs 41 euros,” Risto Lindroos, who works on power
market development at Fingrid, said today by phone from
Helsinki. “That means the combination of cross-border fees and
the Russian capacity payment are enough to kill the viability of
exporting power to Finland.”  Finnish imports from Russia at times of peak demand are
likely to remain subdued at least through the end of May, as
rising temperatures and the spring thaw boost Nordic hydropower
production and push down prices, said Jussi Huttunen, who works
on cross-border power transmission at Fingrid.  “Power exports from Russia follow a regular pattern, where
it is viable to export to  Finland  during baseload night and
weekend hours, and less profitable or even loss-making during
daytime peakload hours, when the capacity tariff is levied,”
RAO Nordic’s Rasi-Kurronen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Torsten Fagerholm in Helsinki at 
 tfagerholm@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  