-- Forint Drops Third Day on Central Bank Currency Reserve Concern
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-03-06T15:30:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/forint-drops-third-day-on-central-bank-currency-reserve-concern.html
The forint weakened for a third day
after news website Nol reported Hungary’s government is
considering using central bank currency reserves to help lenders
provide relief to mortgage holders.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s Cabinet is considering
converting overdue foreign-currency mortgages into forint,
forgiving a part and letting banks deduct some of their losses
from bank taxes, Nol said. The central bank may provide foreign
currency for the conversion from its reserves, the website said.  The forint market is “ruled by fear” as traders speculate
monetary policy will turn “unorthodox” after former economy
minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  took over as Magyar Nemzeti Bank
president and will use the reserves to help mortgage borrowers,
Zsolt Kondrat, a Budapest-based economist at Bayerische
Landesbank’s MKB unit, wrote in a research report today.  The forint slid 0.2 percent to 299.23 per euro by 4:22 p.m.
in Budapest after slumping to as low as 299.74, the weakest in
five weeks. Yields on the government’s 10-year bonds fell two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 6.375 percent.  The forint has lost 1.3 percent so far this month, the
worst performance among 31 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  Matolcsy, who Orban nominated on March 1 and who was
sworn in today, used his powers as outgoing minister to rewrite
the founding document of the bank to concentrate power in his
own hands.  Hungary should be “very careful” with its foreign-
currency reserves and the government must leave the central bank
to determine their use, Orban told reporters in Warsaw today.  “Currency swings will be intensified until it crystallizes
what policies we can expect from the national bank,” Karoly Bamli and Imre Kerekgyarto, Budapest-based traders at
Commerzbank AG, wrote in an e-mail today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  