-- Former Rabo Cyclist Boogerd Admist to a Decade of Doping
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-03-06T13:49:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/former-rabo-cyclist-boogerd-admist-to-a-decade-of-doping.html
Former Rabobank rider Michael Boogerd, a two-time stage winner in the  Tour de France , has
admitted to cheating by using banned performance-enhancing drugs
for 10 years.  Boogerd, who finished fifth in the 1998 Tour, told Dutch
state broadcaster NOS today he used erythropoietin, or EPO,
blood transfusions and cortisone between 1997 and 2007.  The 40-year-old Dutchman, who retired in 2007 and has since
become a cycling commentator for NOS, said he regularly visited
the Humanplasma clinic in Vienna to receive blood transfusions.
He bought EPO in the Netherlands.  Boogerd said he felt forced to use banned performance-
enhancing substances because a lot of the other riders in the
peloton seemed to be doing it and he “wanted to compete with
the top guys.”  Although Boogerd is the seventh rider from the now
disbanded Rabobank team to say he used banned substances to
boost his performance, he said the team didn’t have a “doping
culture.”  Denmark’s Michael Rasmussen,  Germany ’s Grischa Niermann and
Dutchmen Danny Nelissen, Marc Lotz and Thomas Dekker have also
admitted to taking performance-enhancing drugs.  Their confessions came after a report by the U.S. Anti-
Doping Agency, or USADA, in October that described widespread
cheating and said American rider Levi Leipheimer admitted doping
when on the Rabobank team in 2003.  Former Rabobank team manager Theo de Rooij told Dutch media
last year that doping was tolerated on the team.  Leipheimer is a former teammate of  Lance Armstrong  of the
U.S., who was stripped of his seven  Tour de France  titles and
banned for life for what USADA said in October was “serial
cheating.”  The USADA report prompted Dutch mortgage lender Rabobank
Groep to end 17-year sponsorship of cycling.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in  London  at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  