-- Forties Offered at 3-Month Low; Brent Oil Pipeline Still Shut
-- B y   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2013-03-06T17:35:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/forties-offered-at-3-month-low-brent-oil-pipeline-still-shut.html
North Sea  Forties crude fell to the
lowest in more than three months as Mercuria Energy Trading SA
offered the grade for a second day without finding a buyer.  The Brent pipeline system remains shut for a fifth day, an
official from the operator, Abu Dhabi National Energy Co., known
as Taqa, said today from Aberdeen. The company hasn’t yet said
when the pipeline will resume, the person said asking not to be
identified citing policy.  North Sea  Mercuria offered Forties lot F0316 for loading March 22 to
March 24 at a discount of 25 cents a barrel to Dated Brent, a
Bloomberg survey of traders and brokers monitoring the Platts
pricing window showed. That’s 35 cents less than its price
yesterday and is the lowest since Nov. 26, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Three shipments traded on Feb. 28 at a
premium of 20 cents and 25 cents.  Statoil ASA also failed to find a buyer for consignment
F0313 for loading March 24 to March 26 at a premium of 10 cents
to the benchmark, the survey showed.  Total bid for a March 28 to March 30 cargo at parity to
Dated Brent without finding a seller, the survey showed. That’s
5 cents less than its unsuccessful bid yesterday. Chevron Inc.
failed to buy a March 28 to March 31 shipment at minus 5 cents
while Phibro, a unit of Occidental Petroleum Corp., bid at a
discount for 40 cents for March 22 to March 25.  Reported crude trading typically occurs during the Platts
window, which ends at 4:30 p.m.  London  time. Forties loading in
10 to 25 days rose 2 cents to a premium of 7 cents a barrel to
Dated Brent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Yesterday’s premium was the least since Dec. 31.  Brent for April settlement traded at $110.80 a barrel on
the ICE Futures  Europe  exchange in London at the close of the
window, compared with $110.76 in the previous session. The May
contract was at $109.92, a discount of 88 cents to April.  Exports of the Aasgard, Grane and Statfjord crudes will be
stable in April at seven, four and five cargoes respectively
while shipments of Gullfaks will drop by one to six lots,
separate loading programs obtained by Bloomberg News showed.  Alvheim shipments will total five cargoes next month,
including one consignment from the March plan, according to a
separate schedule showed.  Mediterranean/Urals  Vitol Group failed to find a buyer for Russian Urals at
$2.30 a barrel less than Dated Brent on a delivered basis to
Augusta,  Italy , the Platts survey showed. That’s 30 cents higher
than its offer yesterday. That compares with a March 1 trade at
minus $2.35.  The Urals discount to Dated Brent in the Mediterranean
widened by 5 cents to $2.40 a barrel, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. In northwest Europe, the  discount  was at $2.78 a barrel,
compared with $2.73 yesterday.  West Africa  Benchmark Nigerian Qua Iboe blend fell 3 cents to $3.37 a
barrel more than Dated Brent, Bloomberg data show. The grade
climbed to $3.50 on March 3, which was the most since Oct. 12
2011 and were boosted by thefts and force majeure in the West
African nation, according to JBC Energy GmbH.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc and other  oil companies  in  Nigeria 
have this year declared force majeure, a legal provision freeing
them of the obligation to honor contracted deliveries because of
circumstances beyond their control, four times. Shell announced
the latest yesterday, on  Bonny Light  exports, as thefts threaten
to outpace those in 2009, the height of an insurgency by
militants in the Niger River Delta.  “Shell’s announcement of force majeure on loadings of
Bonny Light due to pipeline shutdowns and theft likely played a
key role in pushing prices for the bulk of the region’s barrels
up by as much as $1 per barrel in the last several days,”
Vienna-based analysts JBC said today in a report.  Hindustan Petroleum Corp Ltd. issued a tender to buy low-
sulfur crudes for loading in the first half of April, according
to a document obtained by  Bloomberg News .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  