-- Freeport May Double Copper Sales to China as Production Expands
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-03-06T07:50:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/freeport-may-double-copper-sales-to-china-as-production-expands.html
Freeport-McMoran Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) ,
the world’s second largest copper miner, may double sales of
copper concentrate to  China  in the next three years as mined
production expands, according to Javier Targhetta, the company’s
senior vice president of marketing and sales.  Sales to China may be 800,000 to 1 million metric tons by
2016, up from more than 500,000 tons this year, Targhetta said
in an interview in Madrid yesterday. The company’s concentrate
sales to the biggest metals buyer have grown 10 times since
2005, he said. Copper concentrate is the material from mines
that’s processed into cathodes for use in pipes and wiring.  “We hope to significantly increase sales to China in the
coming three years,” Targhetta said before Metal Bulletin’s
copper conference in  Madrid . “We are one of the ones increasing
our mined production. Certainly the Chinese market is a good one
for us to place part of new concentrate that we will be
producing.”  China will boost concentrate imports by 17 percent this
year, soaking up some of the expected growth in mine supply,
Barclays Plc said Feb. 15. Freeport in January forecast copper
sales this year of 4.3 billion pounds (1.95 million tons) from
3.66 billion pounds in 2012. China is moving its import
requirements toward copper concentrate from refined metal,
Citigroup Inc. said March 4.  More Copper  This year, 1.9 million tons of production will be added to
mine output, or 11 percent of output last year, Credit Suisse
Group AG said in a report in January. Mines are adding output
from  Rio Tinto Group (RIO) ’s Oyu Tolgoi in Mongolia to  Xstrata Plc (XTA) ’s
Antapaccay in Peru and  Vale SA (VALE3) ’s Salobo in Brazil, according to
the report.  Freeport’s Atlantic Copper smelter in Huelva, Spain,
processed 1.03 million tons of copper concentrate and produced a
record 274,000 tons of copper cathode, according to the company.
Targhetta is also president of the unit.  The plant will shut for 60 days in early September for the
first time in eight years for maintenance, Targhetta said. This
should reduce output of copper cathodes by about 15 percent for
the year, Targhetta said. Codelco, in  Chile , is the world’s
largest copper producer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  