-- Gazit Swings Abate as Barbers Cushion Slowdown: Israel Overnight
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l   a n d   L e s l i e   P i c k e r
-- 2013-03-06T17:32:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/gazit-swings-abate-as-barbers-cushion-slowdown-israel-overnight.html
Gazit-Globe Ltd. (GZT) ’s price swings sank
to the lowest level since 2003 on prospects the Israeli property
company’s focus on tenants from supermarkets to barbers will
help buffet a slowdown in Europe, its second-largest market.  The company’s 50-day volatility, a measure of fluctuations
in the shares, fell to 17.3 today for its Tel-Aviv traded stock,
the lowest level since November 2003. Shares added 1 percent in
New York yesterday, their biggest gain in a week. The  Bloomberg
Israel-US Equity Index (ISRA25BN)  of the most traded Israeli companies
traded in New York jumped the most since Feb. 19, led by  Cellcom (CEL) 
 Israel  Ltd. The nation’s largest mobile phone provider rose as
 Bank Leumi  Le-Israel Ltd. rated the shares buy.  Gazit-Globe, which owns commercial real estate in more than
20 countries through its subsidiaries and rents spaces to
supermarkets, pharmacies, barbers and daycare centers,
outperformed European mall operators  Immofinanz AG (IIA)  and Deutsche
Euroshop AG in February. Europe, where the central bank expects
the economy to shrink 0.3 percent this year, accounted for 25
percent of the Tel Aviv-based company’s revenue in 2011, second
to  Canada , which represented 31 percent of sales.  “They have centers where people go to shop for everyday
needs, not a health club or place that people tend to spend less
money on when economic conditions get bad,” Adar Etzioni, the
head of research at Migdal Capital Markets Ltd. who rates the
shares the equivalent of neutral, said by phone yesterday from
Tel Aviv. “Their properties can deal better with slowdowns than
big malls or the office sector.”  Higher volatility means an asset or index can swing
dramatically in a short period, increasing the potential for
unexpected losses.  More Purchases  Europe’s recession caused the amount of new lending for
commercial property in the region to drop by about 77 percent
from 2007 through 2011, according to estimates from Michael Haddock, a London-based research director at CBRE Group Inc.
Retail tenant sales at shopping malls owned by  Klepierre SA (LI) ,
Europe’s second-largest publicly traded mall operator, fell 9.8
percent in Spain last year, the company’s  annual report  showed.  Gazit-Globe may be able to capitalize on the weak economic
conditions in Europe by increasing its portfolio through more
new purchases, Etzioni said. The company’s Citycon Oyj unit
joined the Canada Pension Plan Investment Board in December to
buy the Kista Galleria shopping center in  Stockholm  for 526
million euros ($687 million).  The Israeli company is also looking to buy commercial
properties in  Brazil , where the central bank has kept borrowing
costs at a record low to revive slow growth, Chief Executive
Officer Roni Soffer said last month. Gazit completed in January
the purchase of the Prado shopping center in Campinas, Brazil
for about $20 million. The mall is anchored by a supermarket
operated by  Cia. Brasileira de Distribuicao Grupo Pao de Acucar ,
Brazil’s biggest retailer.  ‘Future Potential’  Shares of Gazit-Globe in the U.S. have  soared  42 percent in
the past six months. The company trades at 19.3 times estimated
earnings, a 42 percent premium to the average multiple for
companies on the Bloomberg-Israel US gauge.  “The momentum is pretty good right now, and Gazit-Globe is
in a good position to make their portfolio larger,” Etzioni
said. “Even though the stock price today is not low, not all of
the future potential is priced in.”  The Bloomberg Israel-US gauge jumped 1.1 percent to 87.97
yesterday, the highest level in two weeks. The benchmark  TA-25 (TA-25) 
Index rose for a third day, adding 0.2 percent to 1,228.23 today
in Israel.  Cellcom climbed 4.3 percent to $7.46, the biggest jump in a
month. Bank Leumi raised Cellcom to the equivalent of buy from
neutral, saying a stronger  cash flow  will help the mobile phone
provider beat peers, according to an e-mailed note yesterday.
Shares traded in  Tel Aviv  today added 2.3 percent to 27.87
shekels, or the equivalent of $7.47.  Drug Delay  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  jumped 2.4 percent to
$38.13, halting eight days of declines. Shares traded in Tel
Aviv climbed for a third day, advancing 1.5 percent to 142.9
shekels, or $38.29. Pfizer Inc. said it filed patent-
infringement lawsuits yesterday against generic-drug makers
including Teva to prevent them from selling a low-cost version
of the painkiller Celebrex until December 2015.  The drug “is not the big story for Teva, and they’re a big
enough company that they can absorb the delay,” Kevin Kedra, an
analyst at Gabelli & Co. who rates the shares buy, said
yesterday from Rye, New York.  Prolor Biotech Inc. (PBTH) , based in Nes Ziona, Israel, advanced
3.2 percent to $5.16, the highest price since Oct. 17. The
shares fell for the first time in five days, slipping 0.7
percent to 19.17 shekels in Tel Aviv, or the equivalent of
$5.14. The biotechnology company received a notice of allowance
from the U.S. Patent and  Trademark Office  covering methods for
cutting body fat with its human growth hormone, according to a
statement yesterday.  For Related News and Information:
Gazit-Globe Targets Sweden, Brazil After Rally: Israel Overnight
Euro-Area GDP Slumps Most Since 2009 Recession Depths: Economy
Citigroup to Morgan Stanley Targeting Europe Property: Mortgages  To contact the reporters on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in  New York  at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net ;
Leslie Picker in New York at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  