-- GE Races Caterpillar on LNG Trains to Curb Buffett Cost
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2013-03-07T21:13:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/ge-races-caterpillar-on-lng-trains-to-curb-buffett-cost.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  and  Caterpillar
Inc. (CAT) , the world’s largest locomotive makers, are rushing to
develop natural gas-powered models in a potential shift from
diesel’s six decades as the fuel of choice for railroads.  Three of the biggest U.S. rail carriers --  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s Burlington Northern  Santa Fe  LLC,  Union Pacific
Corp. (UNP)  and  Norfolk Southern (NSC)  Corp. -- are working with
manufacturers on using gas as an alternative power source for
freight trains. CSX Corp. is studying the technology.  Tapping the nation’s glut of gas as a transportation power
source opens a new front in the global competition between GE
and Caterpillar. Liquefied natural gas holds the promise of
cutting railroads’ costs, curbing greenhouse-gas emissions and
ushering in the industry’s biggest change in fuel technology
since diesel displaced steam in the 1950s.  “We are entering a new era where natural gas will be a
major fuel,” Lorenzo Simonelli, chief executive officer of GE’s
transportation unit, said in an interview. “If you believe the
price advantage over diesel is going to stay here for the next
10 to 15 years, then LNG is a revolutionary fuel.”  Industrial goods such as locomotives and energy equipment
are part of GE Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey Immelt’s push to
emphasize manufacturing and shrink the finance unit, an
initiative started after credit-market disruptions jeopardized
the company. Caterpillar began its dedicated rail business with
the 2006 acquisition of Progress Rail.  ‘Tremendous Increase’  GE more than  tripled  to $23.68 today from a low of $6.66
during the financial crisis. The company’s stock traded at
 premiums  of 50 percent to Caterpillar and 4.1 percent to the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Railroad Index, on a price-earnings basis.  Caterpillar climbed 1 cent to $89.65 at the close in New
York.  “In the last 12 months, there’s been a tremendous increase
in activity around LNG within North America,” Simonelli said.
“In the not-too-distant future, you’ll see some announcements
being made about how we can apply LNG into a locomotive.”  Fuel trails only employee compensation among American
railroads’ expenses, spurring a search for cheaper alternatives.
Union Pacific, the largest U.S. railroad by revenue, burned 1.09
billion gallons of fuel last year at an average price of $3.22 a
gallon, according to SEC filings.  LNG Switch  That’s significantly costlier than liquefied natural gas.
It costs truckers $2.99 to buy LNG with the same energy content
as a gallon of diesel at  Clean Energy Fuels Corp. (CLNE) ’s Port of Long
Beach facility, the world’s largest LNG fueling station, said
Gary Foster, the company’s spokesman. That’s before volume
discounts that can reduce the price by as much as 30 percent, he
said, meaning some customers pay as little as $2.10.  Railroads are turning to locomotive makers, including
Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE and Peoria, Illinois-based
Caterpillar, for engines that can help them take advantage of
those savings.  “A lot of the customers have come to us seeking us to
develop the technology,” William Ainsworth, CEO of
Caterpillar’s Progress Rail Services unit said in a telephone
interview. “They’ve already run models on the fuel savings.
It’s not that we have to pitch the fuel savings. We’ve just got
to get the technology right.”  Pilot Program  Caterpillar, the world’s largest maker of diesel and
natural gas engines, expects to run a pilot program in North
America with a locomotive engine that uses a mix of diesel and
natural gas later this year, Ainsworth said.  “We’re spending some money on LNG to see if there’s an
opportunity to switch from diesel,” Matt Rose, Burlington
Northern’s CEO, said in an interview in January. “We’re working
with both of our manufacturers as well as a bunch of suppliers
on that.”  Warren Buffett , Berkshire’s billionaire CEO, said
Burlington Northern will begin tests with natural gas
locomotives this year during a March 4 interview on CNBC.
Buffett bought the Fort Worth, Texas-based railroad for $27
billion three years ago in the largest acquisition of his
career.  BNSF will begin the tests in the third quarter with units
from both GE and Caterpillar, Rose said yesterday at an energy
conference in Houston. He’ll make a decision in 2014 about
whether to go ahead with the conversion of the railroad’s entire
fleet, which could take up to a decade, he said.  Stricter emissions standards for locomotives set to take
effect in 2015, in addition to cost savings, are pushing BNSF to
look at natural gas to power its locomotives, Rose said.  Hauling Power  Building an engine to run predominantly on liquefied
natural gas with a smaller amount of diesel mixed in, a
necessary step to maintain hauling power, is complex and the
technology is in the “early development stage,” Tom Lange, a
spokesman for Omaha, Nebraska-based Union Pacific, said in an e-
mail.  That hasn’t stopped the freight rail industry from
exploring the ramifications of a move toward natural gas. Union
Pacific is leading a task force put together by the Association
of American Railroads that’s reviewing safety standards for
special fuel cars that trains will need since LNG is less
energy-dense than diesel. The panel is also studying ways to
ensure LNG-powered locomotives can be used across all of the
largest railroads’ networks.  Logistical Hurdle  “Union Pacific is exploring the potential to use LNG, but
it’s still very much in the early analysis phase,” Lange said.
“We are working closely with locomotive and engine
manufacturers, cryogenic fuel-tank suppliers and natural gas/LNG
suppliers to complete our analysis.”  CSX (CSX) , the largest railroad operating primarily in the
eastern U.S., is “open to this technology and believe it is
potentially viable but there’s still a lot of work to be done,”
Kristin Seay, a spokeswoman for the Jacksonville, Florida-based
company, said in an e-mail.  Norfolk Southern is working with locomotive manufacturers
and studying compressed natural gas-powered engines in addition
to LNG, said Robin Chapman, a spokesman for the Norfolk,
Virginia-based railroad.  In addition to the technological challenge of developing a
locomotive that can run on natural gas, the rail industry also
faces the logistical hurdle of bringing the fuel to its
networks, said Paul Bingham, an economist at CDM Smith, an
Arlington, Virginia-based consulting firm.  Gas Infrastructure  “The Class 1 rails will make the investment and put in the
fueling systems, but they still have to get the gas to those
locations,” Bingham said in a telephone interview. “Some other
third party is going to have to play in that.”  That may provide another opportunity for GE, which makes
equipment it says can liquefy natural gas at any point along a
distribution network. GE sold two of the so-called MicroLNG
units to Seal Beach, California-based Clean Energy Fuels last
year to help create a coast-to-coast network of LNG fueling
stations for trucks.  “Like the move from steam to diesel, if it’s going to be
that radical a transformation, that’s a lot of opportunity for
sales in a lot of places,” Tony Hatch, an independent
transportation consultant based in New York, said in a telephone
interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net . 