-- Geens Moves From Banking World to Tackle Belgium’s Budget
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s   a n d   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2013-03-06T07:32:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/geens-moves-from-banking-world-to-tackle-belgium-s-budget.html
Koen Geens was thrust into the role
of Belgian finance minister just as the stagnant economy forces
another round of budget cuts to bring the deficit down to
European targets.  Geens, 55, a lawyer, corporate governance expert and
director at BNP Paribas Fortis SA, took over yesterday after the
sudden resignation of Steven Vanackere amid controversy over a
securities transaction by a state-owned bank.  “I learned from the prime minister that we will be having
a first budget meeting on Friday,” Geens said late yesterday on
Flemish television. “I will study hard in the coming days.”  Belgium ’s economy is heading for 0.2 percent growth in 2013
after shrinking 0.2 percent last year, the European Commission
forecast on Feb. 22. Its  budget deficit  is likely to remain
stable at 3 percent of gross domestic product. While that number
grazes the European limit, Belgium needs to find as much as 3
billion euros ($3.9 billion) in savings to get the deficit down
to a goal of 2.15 percent of GDP,  Le Soir  reported on March 2,
citing unnamed officials.  Geens is a  Christian Democrat  from the northern Flanders
region, like his predecessor. Geens didn’t assume Vanackere’s
second title as deputy prime minister. That post was assigned to
Pieter De Crem, the defense minister.  Legal Faculty  With law degrees from the University of Leuven and  Harvard
University , Geens has served on the legal faculty in Leuven, on
a commission of corporate governance experts and on the Flemish
science and innovation council, according to a  biography  on the
BNP Paribas Fortis website.  “I have some political experience and the knowledge given
my academic background in fiscal law,” Geens said on Flemish
TV. “I hope I am in a position to get the work done rather
quickly.”  Wouter Beke, president of the Flemish Christian Democratic
CD&V party, praised Geens’ knowledge of Belgium’s fiscal system
and the banking industry. “Moreover, he was available
immediately,” Beke told Flemish TV yesterday.  Vanackere was the first high-ranking departure from the
government of Prime Minister Elio Di Rupo, which took office in
December 2011 after an unprecedented 541-day post-election
stalemate.  Dexia Rescue  Vanackere’s fall dates to Jan. 31, when Belfius, a bank
that emerged from the state’s rescue of  Dexia SA (DEXB) , bought back
110 million euros of profit-sharing certificates from two
Christian labor organizations, one from each Belgian region. The
labor organizations reinvested the proceeds in a 6.25 percent
Belfius perpetual bond, drawing criticism from opposition
parties in Flanders that they profited from a government-
brokered deal at taxpayer expense.  Vanackere, 49, quit after 15 months on the job, saying on
his  website  that he was the target of “unjustified insinuations
and malicious accusations” over his handling of the Belfius
deal.  While Vanackere said he wasn’t involved in the transaction,
he was caught up in the fallout because his political roots are
in the Flemish labor organization, known by its initials ACW.  Geens stepped down immediately from the board of BNP
Paribas Fortis, in which the state holds a 25 percent stake, De
Tijd reported, citing an interview. Geens’s law firm will also
stop representing the labor organization’s investment arm, the
newspaper said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net ;
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  