-- Gensler Said to Discuss Chance of Second Term at CFTC
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2013-03-06T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/gensler-said-to-discuss-possible-nomination-to-second-cftc-term.html
The Obama administration has opened
discussions with  Gary Gensler  about serving a possible second
term as chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission,
according to a person briefed on the matter.  Gensler has also discussed other economic or financial jobs
in the administration, according to the person, who asked not to
be named because the talks are private. Gensler hasn’t been told
he will be nominated for a second CFTC term or to a different
job, the person said.  While Gensler has expressed interest to White House
officials about other economic posts, he is unlikely to receive
one, according to another person familiar with the matter who
asked not to be named in describing personnel discussions.  Gensler has led the five-member commission in its effort to
write new Dodd-Frank Act rules overseeing derivatives trading by
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and other
companies. The law was enacted following the 2008 credit crisis
as an effort to reduce risk and increase transparency in the
financial system.  The White House press office declined to comment. The  Wall
Street  Journal reported on the discussions earlier yesterday.  Gensler, who has said he’d be willing to serve a second
term, took office in May 2009 and his term officially expired in
April 2012. Federal rules permit him to remain in his post until
the end of 2013 without being renominated by President  Barack Obama .  Gensler has been criticized on Wall Street for the scope of
the CFTC’s regulations and the potential they have to increase
costs on banks and other users of derivatives.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  