-- Genworth Suspends California Long-Term Care Sales
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-03-06T21:39:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/genworth-to-suspend-long-term-care-insurance-sales-in-california.html
Genworth Financial Inc. (GNW) , the
provider of life insurance and mortgage guaranties, said it is
suspending sales of individual long-term care coverage in
California as the company works to start replacement offerings
with better returns.  Genworth will stop selling the policies, which can help pay
for home-health aides or nursing home stays, effective March 21,
according to a statement today from the Richmond, Virginia-based
company. The products being suspended in California, the most
populous U.S. state, accounted for 12 percent of Genworth’s
long-term care sales last year.  “The company was not going to write business in a product
which did not fit its desired return profile,” said Mark Palmer, an analyst at BTIG LLC. “Discipline is called for and
this is a demonstration of discipline by the management team.”  Chief Executive Officer Tom McInerney is seeking to improve
results from long-term care coverage after fourth-quarter
profits at the unit tumbled 75 percent amid low interest rates
and rising health-care costs. Genworth has been requesting rate
increases from state regulators on existing policies and said
today that it’s working with  California ’s insurance overseer as
it seeks to introduce a new long-term care offering.  Genworth has made “fairly good progress working with
regulators” on requests for higher rates, McInerney said in an
interview last month. “That is an area that, because of its
complexity, will continue to need a lot of focus.”  MGIC, Radian  Genworth rallied 2.3 percent to $9.61 at 4:15 p.m. in New
York, extending its gain to 28 percent since Dec. 31. McInerney
started as CEO in January. Mortgage insurers surged this year as
 Radian Group Inc. (RDN)  sold shares and notes to bolster capital.  MGIC Investment Corp. (MTG)  has more than doubled this year, and
was up 5.1 percent today after saying it began an offering of
stock and bonds, underwritten by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Radian
has advanced 63 percent this year.  MetLife Inc. (MET)  and  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) , the largest
U.S. life insurers, have retreated from long-term care coverage
amid higher-than-expected claims costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  