-- Germany Income Gap Stops Widening as More Find Jobs, Report Says
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2013-03-06T16:18:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/germany-income-gap-stops-widening-as-more-find-jobs-report-says.html
Germany ’s income gap has stopped
widening as the economy expanded and more people found jobs,
according to a Labor Ministry report that was attacked by
opposition lawmakers for presenting a misleading picture of
Europe’s biggest economy.  Income equality is less than the average for members of the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development and
comparable to that in  France  and the Netherlands, Labor Minister
Ursula von der Leyen said today in Berlin.  The country is doing “very well by international
comparison,” thanks to employment growth and rising wages, von
der Leyen told reporters.  The report, endorsed by  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s Cabinet,
was attacked by opposition and welfare groups that said the
government ignored other findings, including an increase in low-
wage jobs and a widening gap between wealthy and poor. The
richest 10 percent of Germans own more than 53 percent of the
country’s net wealth, while half of all households own 1
percent, according to the 548-page report.  “The social division in our country is becoming an
economic risk,” Hubertus Heil, general secretary of the main
opposition  Social Democrats , said today in an e-mailed
statement.  The report coincides with mounting calls for a statutory
 minimum wage  in Germany to counter a surge in low-paid jobs and
concern that the poor in  Europe ’s biggest economy lack adequate
pension entitlements for old age.  Poverty Gap  The opposition has accused the government of rewriting
parts of the study, which was due to be published in November,
to mask the widening poverty gap. Von der Leyen called the
opposition’s criticism “thin” on substance and said the report
was updated with new data.  Von der Leyen said the drop in unemployment among workers
younger than 25 by two points to 8 percent from pre-crisis
levels to Europe’s lowest level “is an absolute success
story.” The government should try to help more long-term
unemployed find a job and and raise the share of women working,
she said.  The SPD has taken up the  income gap  as a campaign theme for
federal elections on Sept. 22, announcing plans to initiate
legislation to introduce a minimum wage of 8.50 euros ($11.09)
per hour. About 7.9 million people worked in Germany for less
than 9.15 euros in 2010, the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  