-- German Steelworkers Win 3 Percent Pay Rise in Shrinking Industry
-- B y   T i n o   A n d r e s e n
-- 2013-03-06T10:22:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/german-steelworkers-win-3-percent-pay-rise-in-shrinking-industry.html
Germany ’s IG Metall union won a
three percent wage increase for 75,000 workers in the steel and
iron industries under a deal struck early this morning after 10
hours of negotiations.  The wage contract, which includes retirement and vocational
training concessions for workers in the states of North Rhine-
Westphalia, Lower Saxony and Bremen, takes effect this month and
runs through May 2014, according to an e-mailed statement from
IG Metall’s Dusseldorf chapter.  The wage increase, lower than the five percent the labor
union originally sought, comes as steelmakers grapple with
surplus capacity caused by dwindling demand from the auto and
construction industries in Europe and competition from  China .
Steel trader  Kloeckner & Co. (KCO)  today posted a loss of 198 million
euros ($259 million) for 2012, compared with a 10 million-euro
profit the year earlier, as it presses ahead with a plan to
eliminate more than 1,800 jobs, or 16 percent of its workforce.  “This is a moderate deal in the context of the difficult
situation of the industry which allowed a bit more give-and-take
by the labor union than in other industries,” Ingo-Martin Schachel, an analyst at Commerzbank AG, said by phone from
 Frankfurt .  Under the terms of the agreement, the quota of employees
eligible for semi-retirement will rise to 5 percent from 4
percent with a higher inflation adjustment, and trainees will
receive bigger employment contributions to their pension plans.  “All in all, it’s a fair, reasonable solution,” Knut
Giesler, the regional head of IG Metall in North Rhine-
Westphalia, said in the statement. “Three percent more with
immediate effect is a good result.”  Biggest Union  IG Metall is  Europe ’s biggest industrial union with 2.3
million members at the end of 2012.  The wage increase is lower than demands by the public
sector and the construction and metal industries, which are
seeking 5.5 percent to 6.6 percent in this year’s round of
talks. IG Metall’s board, which is scheduled to set its wage
demand on March 15, is recommending its representatives seek up
to 5.5 percent as they embark on wage negotiations for
metalworkers later this month.  IG Bau, which represents about 750,000 employees in the
construction industry, is demanding 6.6 percent.  Labor unions are seeking a share in Germany’s recovery as
signs emerge that Europe’s largest economy is returning to
growth after a contraction at the end of last year. The number
of people out of work in Germany unexpectedly fell in February,
by 3,000 to 2.92 million, according to data by the Federal Labor
Agency last month.  The Bundesbank expects the economy to expand this quarter
after contracting 0.6 percent in the last three months of 2012.
Business confidence jumped to a 10-month high in February and
investor optimism surged to the highest in almost three years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tino Andresen in Dusseldorf at 
 tandresen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  