-- Gevo Gains After Loss Beats Estimates on Cost Reductions
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2013-03-06T21:55:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/gevo-gains-after-loss-beats-estimates-on-cost-reductions.html
Gevo Inc. (GEVO) , a U.S. biofuel producer
that idled a manufacturing plant in September, rose the most in
three weeks after cost-cutting narrowed its fourth-quarter loss,
beating estimates.  Gevo advanced 5.4 percent to $1.96 at the close in  New
York , the most since Feb. 8.  The company had a net loss of $13.2 million, or 34 cents a
share, compared with a loss of $14.2 million, or 54 cents, a
year earlier, Englewood, Colorado-based Gevo said in a statement
released after the market closed yesterday. That was less than
the anticipated 48-cent per-share loss, the average of four
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The company cut research expenses in the quarter and
executives waived their 2012 bonus payments.  “The beat was mainly driven by” a 36 percent decline in
operating expenses from the prior quarter, to $12.2 million,
 Pavel Molchanov , an analyst at Raymond James & Associates Inc.
in Houston, wrote in a note to investors today. He rates Gevo
the equivalent of a buy with a 12-month price target of $3.  The company said its isobutanol plant in Luverne,
 Minnesota , will resume operations this year. Gevo halted
production of the renewable fuel in September to adjust the
manufacturing process after yields were lower than expected.  The company said then the plant would switch to ethanol,
and later determined that doing so wasn’t cost-effective. The
plant is now idle, according to the statement.  A patent-infringement case involving Butamax Advanced
Biofuels LLC is expected to begin April 1, according to
Molchanov, and  Gevo is in “a substantively advantaged
position.” Butamax, a joint venture of DuPont Co. and  BP Plc (BP/) ,
sued Gevo in 2011 alleging misuse of technology for genetically
engineered microorganisms used to produce biofuels.  A trial court and an appeals court both concluded that
Butamax “does not hold a valid patent,” Molchanov said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  