-- GM Plans Arizona Computer Center, Hiring 1,000 IT Workers
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2013-03-06T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/gm-plans-arizona-computer-center-hiring-1-000-it-workers.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , amid an overhaul
of its information technology operations, plans to hire 1,000
people for a new computer center in the Phoenix area, the fourth
so-called innovation center, the company said today.  The hiring is part of Detroit-based GM’s plan to add about
7,500 information technology workers over as many as five years
under a broader shift to move such work in-house instead of
using outside contractors, such as  Palo Alto , California-based
 Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)   The automaker has already announced innovation centers in
suburban Atlanta, Warren,  Michigan , and Austin,  Texas , which are
intended to employ a combined 3,000 information technology
workers. GM has already hired 1,000 people for its innovation
centers and said it will absorb 3,000 HP workers who had been
performing duties for the autoworker.  “Operating four IT Innovation centers geographically
dispersed across the U.S. allows us to offer employment
opportunities to hundreds of thousands of IT professionals, over
75 percent located within a 500-mile radius of any one of the
centers,” Randy Mott, GM chief information officer, said in a
statement.  Mott, a former chief information officer at Hewlett-
Packard, has previously said that GM will open four of these
centers. The  Arizona  site will open April 1 in a temporary
location with plans to open a permanent $21 million office in
Chandler by the first quarter of next year, the company said.  GM had done about 10 percent of its IT work internally and
Mott plans to boost that to 90 percent as Chief Executive
Officer Dan Akerson pushes to update GM’s computer and financial
reporting systems. The automaker started with about 1,500 in-
house IT workers and ultimately wants to have about 9,000, Mott
said in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  