-- Goldman’s Bicudo, Pereira to Head Brazil Investment Bank
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2013-03-06T16:00:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/goldman-s-bicudo-pereira-to-co-head-brazil-investment-bank-1-.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s Fabio Bicudo and Antonio Pereira will become co-heads of the Brazil
investment-banking business after Daniel Wainstein retired from
the firm.  Bicudo and Pereira are currently co-chief operating
officers of the business, the New York-based firm said today in
internal memos. The contents of the memos were confirmed by a
Goldman Sachs spokesman.  Goldman Sachs had been discussing the changes with
Wainstein for the past several months, a person at the firm said
yesterday, asking not to be identified because the decision
hadn’t yet been announced. Wainstein, 42, and Andre Laport Ribeiro are Goldman Sachs’s only partners in Brazil.  Wainstein, who asked to leave after working at the firm
since 2000, was appointed chairman of  Brazil  investment banking
in April 2012, when Pereira and Bicudo were named co-COOs. The
bank ranked sixth in equity underwriting in Brazil last year,
with $732 million in transactions, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. It was No. 8 among merger advisers with $14.3 billion in
deals, the data show.  Bicudo and Pereira are members of the board of Goldman
Sachs Bank in Brazil and serve on the company’s management
committee for the country. Bicudo joined Goldman Sachs in 1999
and stayed until 2006. He came back to the company in 2010.
Pereira joined the firm in 1996 in  New York .  Paulo Leme  The company, which doesn’t disclose Brazil revenue or
profit, named Paulo Leme as chairman for the country a year ago.
Goldman Sachs has said its strategy in Brazil is to focus on
complex products with higher profit margins, such as convertible
debt and receivables securitization.  U.S. and international banks are competing against Brazil-
based companies such as Bradesco BBI SA, Banco Itau BBA SA and
Banco BTG Pactual SA, which have used their stronger local
contacts to squeeze out foreign firms.  Goldman Sachs completed its strategy to become a full-
service bank in Brazil in 2009, after two failed attempts to buy
local firms. In 1998, Goldman Sachs tried to buy Banco de
Investimentos Garantia SA, which was acquired by Credit Suisse
Group AG.  Seven years later it sought to purchase Banco Pactual SA,
an investment bank later acquired by UBS AG. Pactual was sold
back to BTG Partners in 2009 and is now Banco BTG Pactual SA.
BTG went public last year in a $1.94 billion initial offering
that Goldman Sachs helped underwrite.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  