-- Google, IBM, Nasdaq, Finra Plan Bids to Build SEC Audit T
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2013-03-07T00:08:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/google-ibm-nasdaq-finra-plan-bids-to-build-sec-audit-t.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Infosys Ltd. (INFO) ,
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  and the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority plan to bid on a project to build a
comprehensive market oversight system for U.S. securities.  Exchange operators  NYSE Euronext (NYX) ,  Nasdaq  OMX Group Inc. and
Bats Global Markets Inc. also said they would submit bids, as
did high-frequency trading technology provider Tradeworx Inc.,
which supplies a system to the Securities and Exchange
Commission that compiles information from private data streams
about quotations and trades. The list of 31 candidates was
 published  on the website for the so-called consolidated audit
trail that the exchanges and Finra are developing.  The audit trail, one of former SEC Chairman Mary Schapiro’s
main projects, will track all securities orders and trades in
the U.S. from start to completion and give the agency and other
regulators a powerful system to monitor markets and reconstruct
crashes. The exchanges and Finra said in November they would
submit the plan in December 2013, eight months later than
initially expected.  “This is a milestone since the key inputs of the
consolidated audit-trail plan will result from this request-for-
proposal process,” Manisha Kimmel, executive director of the
New York-based Financial Information Forum, a group of brokers,
exchanges and vendors in the securities industry that focuses on
operational and technology issues, said by phone. The firm that
wins the bid will have a “definite impact on the CAT process
from an operational angle and the fact we’re now going to get
multiple perspectives on this is very positive,” she said.  Stockholm, London  Cinnober Financial Technology AB, a Stockholm-based company
that offers trading and clearing platforms, will bid for the
project, according to the list. MillenniumIT, owned by the
 London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE) , will also bid. The  Colombo , Sri
Lanka-based unit provides systems to the LSE, London Metal
Exchange, Icap Plc and Turquoise, an alternative venue owned by
the London market operator, the company’s  website  said.  “It’s good to have competition,” James Angel, a finance
professor at Georgetown University in  Washington , said in a
phone interview. “A lot of the names are the usual suspects
such as Finra and Nasdaq and other financial players, but some
aren’t. It’s an interesting mix of financial-data companies,
exchanges and big IT companies.”  Computerized Trading  The SEC, hurt by criticism that it doesn’t have the data to
analyze high-speed computerized trading, approved a rule in July
requiring the exchanges and Finra, known as self-regulatory
organizations, to produce a plan to establish the audit trail.
The SEC must approve the submission by the 17 exchanges and the
private-sector regulator, which oversees almost 4,300 brokerage
firms, before it can be built.  SEC Chairman Elisse Walter said she hopes the audit-trail
initiative can be expanded beyond stocks and options to include
equities traded in the U.S. without being listed on American
exchanges, bonds and futures. In addition to monitoring markets
and analyzing market crashes, a well-constructed data initiative
could be used to inform how new regulations are written, she
said in a  speech  on Feb. 19.  “I can’t overestimate the importance of CAT,” Walter
said. “Comprehensive public and non-public data about the
market, coming from a single system, could be the most important
regulatory development in my lifetime.”  Consolidated Trail  The self-regulatory organizations tasked with proposing the
plan for the consolidated audit trail can bid for the job of
constructing and managing it. Finra said last year it wanted to
build and administer the data system.  A  document  prepared for a conference for potential bidders
on Jan. 29, before the publication of the official request-for-
proposal, or RFP, included a disclosure that said exchange or
Finra officials attending the meeting would represent the views
of the group instead of their organization. Some personnel may
assist with the group’s efforts and an SRO’s RFP response, the
document said.  The exchanges and Finra  said  last month they would
establish an advisory group to offer input on the audit-trail
development process and consider how the plan may affect brokers
and the broader industry. Participants will include individuals
from the Financial Information Forum, Securities Industry and
Financial Markets Association, and Security Traders Association,
according to the notice.  Identification Codes  That group may discuss issues such as customer
identification codes, different scenarios for how orders are
handled within the data system, conflicts of interest and
funding alternatives for the audit trail, the notice said. It’s
different from the SEC-mandated advisory committee that will be
formed once the regulation governing the audit trail goes into
effect.  The group responsible for the audit-trail plan will hold a
conference for organizations submitting bids on Friday. Bids are
due on April 25, according to the group’s  website .  Thomson Reuters  Corp. and SunGard Data Systems Inc. will
also seek to win the contract to build and manage the audit
trail. The former is a data and news provider while the latter
offers trading and risk management systems. Bloomberg LP, the
parent company of Bloomberg News, competes with Thomson Reuters
in supplying financial news and information.  Other firms offering consulting, telecommunications, data
and technology systems that intend to submit offers for the
audit-trail initiative include  Sapient Corp. (SAPE) , Wipro Ltd., Grant
Thornton LLP, Capgemini Financial Services USA Inc.,  BT Group
Plc (BT)  and GXS Inc. GXS, a spinoff of General Electric Co., helped
develop the Basic computer language, according to a company
history on its website.  Broad interest in the audit-trail project isn’t surprising,
Sang Lee, managing partner at Boston-based research firm Aite
Group LLC, said in an e-mail.  “For those technology vendors and exchanges with
substantial technology business, it gives them the opportunity
for revenue generation as well as becoming the central hub for
data collection and dissemination,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael P. Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net  