-- Groupon Board Is Said to Focus CEO Search on External Candidates
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2013-03-06T16:26:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/groupon-board-is-said-to-focus-ceo-search-on-external-candidates.html
Groupon Inc. (GRPN) ’s board plans to find
someone from outside the company to replace Andrew Mason, who
was ousted as chief executive officer of the daily deals website
last week, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  Directors expect to hire an executive-recruiting firm in
the next two weeks and aim to find a new CEO within three to six
months, said the one of the people, who asked not to be named
because the matter is private.  The new CEO will need to create a money-making business and
restore credibility at the Chicago-based company, which  lost 
$723.8 million in the past three years. Limiting the search to
external candidates means Groupon is not currently considering
insiders such as Chief Operating Officer Kal Raman, a veteran of
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  mentioned by analysts as a top
contender for the CEO job.  Eric Lefkofsky and Ted Leonsis, the board members leading
the search and running the company during its transition, have
been ruled out as candidates for the permanent CEO role along
with other directors, said Paul Taaffe, a spokesman for Groupon.
He declined to provide details on the executive search.  Groupon executives may be considered if suitable candidates
cannot be found outside the company, the people said.  Raman was promoted to COO and given oversight of global
sales and operations in November, after joining Groupon in
April. Other Groupon managers with experience at large e-
commerce companies include Chief Financial Officer Jason Child
and Jeff Holden, a senior vice president of product management.
Both previously worked at Seattle-based Amazon, the largest
online retailer.  Challenging Search  Headhunters may struggle to find an executive willing to
handle company oversight while taking orders from Lefkofsky,
Groupon’s executive chairman, co-founder and largest
shareholder, Adam Charlson, executive vice president of DHR
International Inc., said in an interview last week.  “What CEO is going to want to take over with one of the
co-founders involved in the company?” Charlson, whose firm does
executive searches, said in an interview. “Anybody who takes
the job is going to be looking for another job in six months.”  Groupon has no plans to change its business model after
firing Mason, CFO Child said at a Deutsche Bank AG conference
yesterday.  “We’ll be looking for the right long-term replacement,”
Child said. “I would not expect there to be any sort of
business-model changes or anything like that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  