-- IAG CEO Walsh Extends Salary Freeze Following Full-Year Loss
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-03-06T10:05:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/iag-ceo-walsh-extends-salary-freeze-following-full-year-loss.html
International Consolidated Airlines
Group SA (IAG)  Chief Executive Officer Willie Walsh will take a
further pay freeze this year as he seeks costs cuts at the
Spanish Iberia unit that led to a loss in 2012.  Walsh’s salary remains at 825,000 pounds ($1.25 million),
IAG said today in its annual report. The CEO is also eligible
for an incentive award worth double his base pay, depending on
the group’s earnings and the performance of its share price.  Iberia CEO Rafael Sanchez-Lozano took a 6 percent cut in
total remuneration last year, to 818,000 euros ($1.07 million),
and in December voluntarily cut his base salary 25 percent to
474,000 euros until further notice. Staff at the Madrid-based
unit are midway through the second of three week-long strikes
called by unions in a bid block more than 3,000 job cuts.  “Iberia is suffering because of problems associated with
the Spanish and euro-zone economies that are no fault of its
own,” Walsh is quoted in the report as saying. “But it’s also
suffering because of its own lack of competitiveness and it
needs to be changed in a permanent and structural way.”  Walsh’s total remuneration, including benefits and pension
contributions, fell almost 17 percent to 1.08 million pounds
last year, the report shows. No incentive award was paid.  Iberia Challenge  Keith Williams, who heads London-based IAG’s British
Airways unit, saw his total pay jump 40 percent in 2012 to 1.36
million pounds after the business posted an operating profit.
His base pay will also be frozen this year at 650,000 pounds.  Risks in seeking the Iberia turnaround are “high,” the
report said, citing “widespread labor conflict, operational
disruption, political interference” and other factors.  Concerns over the possible collapse of the euro-area have
waned in the past six months, IAG said, replaced by a risk of
“poor or deteriorating market conditions within an intact euro
zone.” Economic recovery in Spain is not expected until 2014.  “The airline is, candidly, in a fight for viability,” IAG
Chairman Antonio Vazquez said of the Spanish arm. “The
restructuring plans offer a credible way to return Iberia to
profitability and growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  