-- Microsoft Fined $731 Million by EU Over Browser Accord
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2013-03-06T17:03:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/microsoft-fined-731-million-by-eu-for-violating-browser-accord.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  was fined 561
million euros ($731 million) by European Union regulators for
violating the terms of a settlement to give users a choice of
web browsers aside from its Internet Explorer.  Today’s fine -- about 1 percent of the company’s 2012
revenues -- brings to 2.24 billion euros the penalties imposed
on Microsoft in its EU antitrust clashes over the past decade,
including an initial 899 million-euro fine for failing to obey
an order to share data with competitors.  The world’s largest software maker agreed in 2009 to offer
access to other browsers as a part of a settlement to repair its
relationship with the bloc’s regulators. The company  said  last
July it only learned that month that it didn’t offer its browser
choice software on some 28 million computers running Windows 7
Service Pack 1, or 10 percent of the computers that should have
received it.  “This is a big fine, but it’s a big company and a
sophisticated company that made a commitment and they failed to
honor it,” said Charles Whiddington, a lawyer at Field Fisher
Waterhouse LLP in  London . “Commitments are really important to
the commission because they lubricate the efficiency of its
policing of the rules.”  Microsoft took “full responsibility for the technical
error that caused this problem and have apologized for it,” the
company said in an e-mailed statement.  ‘Candid Assessment’  “We provided the commission with a complete and candid
assessment of the situation, and we have taken steps to
strengthen our software development and other processes to help
avoid this mistake -- or anything similar -- in the future,”
Microsoft said.  The Redmond, Washington-based company  fell 1.3 percent  to
$27.98 at 12:02 p.m. in  New York .  Microsoft Chief Executive Officer  Steve Ballmer ’s yearly
bonus was cut last year to $620,000, partly as a result of the
company’s browser problems with the EU and also due to the
disappointing performance of its online services unit.  Microsoft ended more than 10 years of EU antitrust
investigations with its 2009 pledge to give consumers who bought
personal computers using its software a choice of the 12 most
widely used browsers to install in addition to, or instead of,
Internet Explorer. The company told regulators in December 2011
that it was complying with its commitment to display a browser-
choice screen to Windows operating system users. The new fine
marks the first time a company has been sanctioned for failing
to stick to the terms of a legally binding settlement.  Think Twice  EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said regulators
were “more naive than today” in letting Microsoft monitor its
own compliance. In the future, the EU will detail what they
expect from a trustee appointed to monitor a settlement and
check reports more carefully, he said.  “I hope this decision will make companies think twice,”
Almunia told reporters today. “We trusted in the reports about
the compliance.”  Google Inc. (GOOG)  is negotiating its own settlement with EU
regulators to end a probe into claims it discriminates against
competitors in its search results. Microsoft, the operator of
the Bing search engine, is one of several companies that have
complained about Google’s behavior. Almunia said last month that
an accord could be finalized later this year.  Fourth Penalty  The penalty is the fourth levied on Microsoft since it was
fined 497 million euros in 2004 for abusing its position as the
world’s largest supplier of desktop software to hinder rivals
for server and media programs. It was fined 280.5 million euros
in 2006 and another 899 million euros in 2008 for not supplying
interoperability information to server rivals on fair terms.  The 899 million-euro penalty was reduced to 860 million
euros by the EU’s General Court last year. That fine is only
exceeded by a 1.06 billion-euro sanction against  Intel Corp .
which is also being challenged in court.  Mozilla Corp. General Counsel Harvey Anderson said in an
 October blog post  that daily downloads of his company’s Firefox
browser fell by 63 percent prior to Microsoft fixing the
browser-choice issue and that the company may have lost as many
as 9 million potential downloads as a result of the glitch.  Microsoft was also warned by the EU last year to modify how
it presents  Internet Explorer  in Windows 8 to avert another
antitrust clash.  Google’s Chrome was the most popular web browser globally
in February, with 37 percent of market share, according to
statistics from web analytics firm StatCounter. Microsoft’s
Internet Explorer followed with 30 percent, while Mozilla’s
Firefox accounted for just over a fifth of users.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 