-- Illinois’s Quinn Proposes $36 Billion Budget Without Tax Boosts
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2013-03-06T19:38:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/illinois-s-quinn-proposes-36-billion-budget-without-tax-boosts.html
Illinois  Governor  Pat Quinn 
presented a 2014 budget proposal that reflects the fiscal noose
of underfunded pensions strangling education and other programs.  The Democrat blamed lawmakers for failing to address the
retirement debt as he proposed a $35.6 billion general-fund
budget. The spending plan, which tallies $62.4 billion when all
sources of revenue are included, doesn’t propose tax increases.
It would be 5.6 percent, or $1.9 billion, larger than the budget
he signed in June.  “Our budget is squeezed more than ever and that will
continue until we stop it,” Quinn, 64, told lawmakers in
Springfield.  As U.S. states show signs of recovering from the 18-month
recession that ended in 2009, Illinois lags behind with a $97
billion unfunded pension liability and more than $9 billion in
unpaid bills.  Quinn, who has repeatedly urged the Democratic-controlled
General Assembly to restructure the retirement system, scolded
legislators for their torpor.  “Illinois taxpayers are losing patience with your lack of
action,” he said. “It’s time for you to legislate. So take a
vote.”  Crisis Tone  While the crisis tone of Quinn’s remarks isn’t new, the
fiscal squeeze of the state’s own making is tightening as
pension obligations are projected to grow by $900 million in the
budget year beginning July 1, Quinn said. That would account for
about one in every five dollars from the general fund, meaning
less money for schools, health care and public safety, even as
 tax revenue  grows at anticipated levels.  Quinn called the budget “the most difficult” he has had
to submit. Saying taxpayers shouldn’t bear the burden of fixing
the pensions, the governor called for the suspension of 3
percent annual cost-of-living increases in retirement payments
until the system is stabilized. He said those payments are
“unsustainable.”  At the same time, the 2011 income-tax increase that brought
in about $15 billion over the past two years is set to expire at
the end of 2014. And lawmakers’ failure to fix the pension
system has led to downgrades in the state’s  credit rating .  Illinois postponed a $500 million offer of general-
obligation bonds planned for Jan. 30, citing unfavorable market
conditions after  Standard & Poor’s  cut its credit rating to A-,
six levels below AAA. The move left Illinois with the lowest
grade among states.  Cost Crowd  “The inescapable truth is the enormity of our pension
costs continues to crowd out essential services,” Senate
President John Cullerton said in a statement.  The Illinois Federation of Teachers criticized Quinn’s
budget, saying it sets up a “false choice between pensions or
pencils.”  “Springfield lawmakers created the massive pension debt by
skipping payments and borrowing more,” the union that
represents 103,000 teachers and paraprofessionals said in an e-
mailed statement. “We are not to blame, and our students
shouldn’t suffer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  