-- Imperial Tobacco Slides on News of U.K. Plain Packaging Law
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-03-06T10:19:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/imperial-tobacco-slides-on-report-of-u-k-plain-packaging-law.html
Imperial Tobacco Group Plc, (IMT)  Europe’s
second-biggest tobacco company, fell the most in five weeks in
London after the Guardian reported that the U.K. plans to follow
Australia in introducing plain packaging for cigarettes.  The shares slid as much as 2.8 percent, the most since Jan.
30 when the company forecast a decline in first-half profit.
They were down 2.1 percent at 2,393 pence as of 10:13 a.m. Rival
 British American Tobacco Plc (BATS)  fell as much as 1.6 percent.  U.K. legislation to introduce a law on plain packaging will
be announced in the Queen’s speech in May, the Guardian said,
citing an unidentified government official. The law will also
ban smoking in cars carrying anyone under the age of 16,
according to the newspaper.  Tobacco companies  are facing
stricter government restrictions on smoking, with  New Zealand 
announcing last month that it would follow Australia by forcing
cigarette makers to sell their products in plain packages.  A similar move in the U.K. “isn’t totally unexpected and
the implementation lead time will be long,” said  Martin Deboo ,
an analyst at Investec in London. “Even if it is announced in
May, the law may not come into force until 2015 or 2016.”  U.K. Health Secretary  Jeremy Hunt  is considering the
results of a consultation exercise on plain packaging and hasn’t
made a decision yet, according to an official familiar with his
thinking, who asked not to be identified because the discussions
are continuing. The government isn’t looking at banning smoking
in cars, the official said.  Uniform Packs  A move to plain packaging in the U.K. “will hurt Imperial
more than BAT,” Deboo said. Imperial has 13 percent of tobacco
sales and almost 20 percent of profit in the U.K., while BAT
generates only 1 percent of revenue in the country, he said.  In Australia, cigarette packets have since Dec. 1 contained
warnings that include photos of a gangrenous limb and a cancer
victim. All cigarettes in Australia must be sold in uniform
packs, with the brand name relegated to the bottom quarter of
the package on a drab brown background. The law is being
challenged at the  World Trade Organization  and at arbitration.  Still, plain packaging “has so far had a limited effect on
consumption in Australia,” said  Erik Bloomquist , an analyst at
Berenberg Bank in London. “People will continue to smoke
regardless of how unpleasant the pack is to look at.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  