-- India to Boost Cooking Oil Tax Twice This Year, Mistry Says
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m   a n d   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2013-03-06T10:18:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/india-will-boost-cooking-oil-import-tax-twice-this-year-mistry.html
India , the world’s largest cooking
oil consumer after China, is poised to increase taxes on imports
at least twice this year to protect oilseed growers, according
to Dorab Mistry, director at Godrej International Ltd.  The tax on unprocessed oils will probably be increased to
10 percent by April or May from 2.5 percent, and then double to
20 percent by August or September, said Mistry, who last
November correctly predicted that the tariff would be
introduced. The duty on refined oils may be first raised to 17.5
percent from 7.5 percent and later to 27.5 percent, he said.  India’s imports of palm and soybean oils surged to a record
in January as refiners boosted purchases before the tax was
imposed on crude cooking oils for the first time since 2008,
boosting inventories to a record. Domestic stockpiles may total
almost 2 million metric tons, about 80 percent more than a year
earlier, Mistry said.  “Provincial elections are soon due in the rapeseed state
of Rajasthan and the soybean state of  Madhya Pradesh  and
therefore these hikes may come sooner than I am forecasting,”
Mistry, who’s traded  palm oil  for more than 30 years, told the
Palm and Lauric Oils Conference & Exhibition in Kuala Lumpur
today. “India is carrying record stocks of imported oils as
well as record stocks of domestic oilseeds.”  Palm oil, used in foods, biofuels and cosmetics, has
tumbled 25 percent in the past year in Kuala Lumpur, falling to
a three-year low of 2,217 ringgit ($715) on Dec. 13, on concern
that supplies will exceed demand. The contract for delivery in
May ended unchanged at 2,400 ringgit a ton on the  Malaysia 
Derivatives Exchange today.  Record Reserves  India’s imports of edible and non-edible oils will reach a
record 10.9 million tons in the year that began Nov. 1, Mistry
said. Inventories of vegetable oils surged to a record 1.75
million tons after  imports climbed  27 percent to 2.77 million
tons in the three months ended Jan. 31, the Solvent Extractors’
Association of India said Feb. 14.  A tax increase “will be good for refiners and farmers,”
said B.V. Mehta, executive director of the association, which
has sought an increase in the levies. “We will be pursuing this
with the government. The government is still concerned about
inflation even though we have pointed out that food inflation is
the lowest.”  India meets more than 50 percent of its cooking oil demand
through imports of mostly palm from Indonesia and Malaysia, and
 soybean oil  from Brazil and  Argentina . Consumption will expand 6
percent to 17.5 million tons this year due to rising population
and disposable incomes, according to the association.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net ;
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  