-- India’s Nifty Futures Gain, Signaling Equities to Extend Rally
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2013-03-06T02:16:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/india-s-nifty-futures-gain-signaling-equities-to-extend-rally.html
Indian (SENSEX)  stock-index futures gained,
signaling benchmark indexes may extend a rally from a three-
month low.  SGX CNX Nifty Index futures  for March delivery rose 0.4
percent to 5,817 at 10:12 a.m. in  Singapore . The underlying CNX
 Nifty (NIFTY)  Index jumped 1.5 percent to 5,784.25 yesterday, the
biggest advance since Nov. 29. The S&P BSE Sensex index added
1.4 percent to 19,143.17. The Bank of  New York  Mellon  India  ADR
Index of U.S.-traded shares climbed 1.7 percent.  The Sensex fell for five straight weeks through March 1,
slumping to the lowest level since November on Feb. 28, as
profits at companies from  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT)  to  State Bank of
India  missed  estimates  for the December quarter and the economy
grew at the weakest pace in almost four years.  “The market was oversold and it wasn’t unusual to see a
pullback rally yesterday,” Deven Choksey, managing director at
Mumbai-based K.R. Choksey Shares & Securities Pvt., said by
phone. “That is likely to be the nature of this market; we will
see investors buy into dips. The  Reserve Bank  of India policy is
the next big trigger.”  Weak economic growth may prompt the central bank to cut
borrowing costs at its March 19 policy review, Abhay Laijawala,
head of research at Deutsche Equities India Pvt., said in Mumbai
on March 4. The RBI pared the repurchase  rate  by 25 basis points
to 7.75 percent on Jan. 29, the first reduction in nine months.  Slowing Growth  The nation’s economy expanded 4.5 percent from a year ago
in the final three months of 2012, the weakest  pace  in almost
four years, government data showed last week. Earnings at 43
percent of Sensex companies  missed estimates  in the three months
through Dec. 31, compared with 40 percent in the previous two
quarters, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The measure trades at 13.5 times  projected 12-month
profits , compared with 14.3 times on Jan. 25, when it climbed to
a two-year high, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  India’s service industries expanded at a slower pace in
February, a private survey showed yesterday, as slowing growth
damped demand. The purchasing managers’ index fell to 54.2 from
57.5 in January, HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics said in
a statement today. A number above 50 indicates growth.  Services account for about  58 percent  of gross domestic
product.  Shares of  Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. (MM) , India’s biggest sport-
utility vehicle makers, may be active after the company received
notice of a strike by an employees union at its Nashik plant if
their demands are not settled by March 11. Production was
stopped for three hours yesterday.  Overseas funds bought a net $22 million of Indian stocks on
March 4 as money returned to local shares after the biggest net
sale in about a year on Feb. 28, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Foreigners have bought a net $8.4 billion worth of shares
so far this year, a record for the period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  