-- India Seen Boosting Wheat Exports From Stockpiles Before Harvest
-- B y   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a
-- 2013-03-06T06:32:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/india-seen-boosting-wheat-exports-from-stockpiles-before-harvest.html
India , the world’s second-biggest
 wheat producer , may approve more exports from state reserves
tomorrow amid forecasts for a near record harvest, boosting
shipments to an all-time high.  A proposal to allow exports of 5 million metric tons will
be considered by the cabinet, the Press Trust of India reported
today, citing Agriculture Minister Sharad Pawar. The government
may ship more wheat to make room in warehouses for the new crop
starting from April 1, Veena Sharma, secretary of the Roller
Flour Millers Federation of India, said by phone. The food
ministry first proposed additional exports in January.  Record harvests expanded state wheat stockpiles by 32
percent to 31 million tons at the start of February, already
forcing the government to allow shipments of 4.5 million tons by
state companies since July. Exports may reach 10 million tons in
the year starting April, or the equivalent of about 30 percent
of shipments by the U.S., the biggest supplier, according to New
Delhi-based National Centre for Agricultural Economics and
Policy Research.  “The pressure on the government is to liquidate stocks
before the new crop arrives,” said Tejinder Narang, an adviser
with  Emmsons International Ltd. (EMSI)  in New Delhi. “As the monsoon
season starts from June, they need to do something to avoid
damage to the crop.”  Prices Drop  Exports from India may total 5 million tons in the year
ending March 31, with sales mostly to Southeast Asia, the Middle
East and  Africa  at prices ranging from $305 a ton to $315 a ton,
displacing supplies from Ukraine and  Australia , said Sharma of
the millers’ federation. The country is boosting shipments as
prices trade near eight-month lows after crops improved globally
and snow replenished U.S. soil moistures.  “If India shows rigidity in the price, buyers may shift to
the U.S and Australia immediately, and to Russia and Ukraine in
July-August,” Emmsons’ Narang said in a phone interview. “The
price is critical for further exports.”  Futures have fallen 25 percent in  Chicago  since reaching a
four-year high of $9.4725 in July. The contract for May delivery
was unchanged at $7.06 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade at
11:59 a.m. in Mumbai. Prices fell to $6.975 on March 4, the
lowest since June 25.  Farmers in India will harvest 92.3 million tons starting
April 1, near to a record 93.9 million tons a year earlier,
according to the farm ministry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Kutty Abraham in Mumbai at 
 tabraham4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  