-- Lira Sliding to Rescue Shifts Basci’s Rates Focus: Turkey Credit
-- B y   T a y l a n   B i l g i c
-- 2013-03-06T16:24:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/lira-sliding-to-rescue-shifts-basci-s-rates-focus-turkey-credit.html
The lira’s drop over the past month
is fueling speculation the central bank will revert to focusing
on inflation instead of the currency, reducing chances of an
interest-rate cut that would support bonds.  The lira weakened 2 percent since the beginning of
February, bringing an index monitored by the central bank below
its threshold for action to stem appreciation. Turkey’s bond
rally, lagging behind Slovenia,  Romania ,  Mexico  and  Russia  this
year after beating 20 major emerging markets in 2012, is
stalling as investors bet the bank is nearing the end of  rate
cuts  that began last May.  That may limit room for yields to fall further as the
central bank looks to end a three-year streak of missing
 inflation  targets. Governor Erdem Basci said that policy makers
were monitoring the real effective exchange rate index, or REER,
in November, noting a reading above 120 would suggest the
currency was overvalued and could prompt a response. The index,
which is reported by the central bank monthly, was at 119.69 in
February, the bank said yesterday.  “Loose monetary policy and hectic corridor adjustments are
over,” Cenk Sidar, managing director of Washington-based Sidar
Global Advisors, said in an e-mail March 4, referring to the
bank’s interest-rate corridor. “The central bank has done quite
a bit for sustaining growth and fighting currency
appreciation.”  Currency Outlook  Yields on benchmark  two-year  debt fell two basis points, or
0.02 percentage point, to 5.74 percent at 5:51 p.m. in Istanbul,
a second day of declines after rising eight basis points the
previous two days. The lira weakened 0.2 percent to 1.7949 per
dollar, bringing its loss this year to 0.6 percent.  Persistent lira depreciation could create “stickiness” in
inflation and prompt the central bank to “deliver an inflation-
focused policy response,” Vakifbank economists including Cem Eroglu and Umit Unsal said in a report e-mailed on March 4.
“The bank’s monetary policy committee might keep the interest-
rate corridor unchanged when it meets on March 26, shifting
toward a wait-and-see policy.”  Garanti Securities, the investment unit of  Turkey ’s biggest
bank, said it was maintaining its forecast for a 25 basis-point
cut to the upper and lower limits of the corridor after the REER
gauge neared the bank’s threshold, according to an e-mail from
economist Gizem Oztok Altinsac yesterday. “We’ll revisit our
forecast according to the outlook for the lira,” as the meeting
approaches, she said.  Funding Cost  Basci uses the overnight lending and borrowing rates,
together defining the corridor, in addition to the benchmark
rate of 5.5 percent, to manage liquidity in the $800 billion
economy. The average cost of funding to banks has  hovered  around
5.5 percent since December, after being cut from as high as 10.8
percent last May, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
rate was 5.53 percent yesterday.  Slower-than-expected  inflation  in February failed to
trigger a decline in Turkish bond yields amid a pick-up in core
inflation. Annual consumer-price growth slowed to 7.03 percent
in February from the previous month, while core inflation rose
to 5.82 percent from 5.72 percent, according to the statistics
office in Ankara March 4.  “Inflation is still benign, but core continues to gather
momentum,” Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts Mark Tan and Hui Ying Chan said in an e-mail yesterday. “In the second half,
inflation will prove to be consistently more sticky at around 7
percent.”  Forward Rates  The lira will weaken to about 1.87 per dollar by year-end,
according to implied forward rates calculated by Bloomberg.
Inflation will probably end the year at 6.8 percent, according
to the average of 24 economist estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold Turkey’s dollar
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell seven basis points to 196 today,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Diversified
Index. Turkey’s spread is 85 basis points below the average for
 emerging markets .  Five-year credit-default swaps on Turkey fell one basis
point to 134 basis points. That compares with 145 for Russia and
170 for South Africa, both of which are rated higher. Falling
prices show improving perceptions of creditworthiness and rising
prices the reverse. The contracts pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or cash equivalent if a
borrower fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  The benchmark yield is determined largely by the average
cost of funding from the central bank, according to Hakan Aklar,
an economist at Ak Investment in Istanbul.  “If the yield is to go further south, inflation must fall
considerably,” he said.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylan Bilgic in Istanbul at 
 tbilgic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  