-- Iraq Rebuilding Marred by $9 Billion Loss, Auditor Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-03-06T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/iraq-rebuilding-marred-by-9-billion-loss-auditor-says.html
The U.S. lost at least $9 billion of
taxpayer money set aside to rebuild  Iraq , as poor planning and
weak oversight allowed waste and fraud to permeate the nine-
year, $60.5 billion effort, according to a government watchdog.  Miscues by both the Bush and Obama administrations set the
stage for as much as $8 billion in waste on rebuilding since
2003, according to Stuart Bowen, the U.S. special inspector
general for Iraq reconstruction. At least an added $1 billion
was lost to fraud, taking the potential loss from allocated
funds to 15 percent of the total, he said.  “This is a reasonable estimate,” Bowen said in an
interview. “Waste and fraud at the levels we saw are a symptom
of a failure to have a structure in place to effectively plan
for stabilization and reconstruction operations, execute such
operations and be held accountable for them.”  Bowen’s findings, contained in a 171-page report released
today, may rekindle the debate about the origins and results of
the Iraq war as the 10th anniversary of the U.S.-led invasion
approaches later this month. The report focuses on the cost to
rebuild Iraq, much of which was included in the $729 billion
that the Pentagon says it spent on operations in the country.  The war that toppled Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein also
took the lives of 4,475 U.S. service members, according to a
separate tally by the Congressional Research Service in a new
report. Another 32,220 were wounded in action, 991 of whom
suffered amputations, including 797 for major limb removals, the
service said.  ‘Decrepit Conditions’  President George W. Bush ordered the March 2003 invasion,
citing what proved to be false intelligence about weapons of
mass destruction under Hussein’s control and ties between the
secular dictator and al-Qaeda.  U.S. military forces found Iraq in much worse condition
than prewar planners in the Bush administration had anticipated,
and “it is not a stretch to say that Iraq was broken before the
invasion,” according to Bowen’s report.  The “decrepit conditions severely worsened” in April and
May 2003, “aggravated by looting, insecurity” and the complete
dismantling of the Iraqi Army, an “arguably errant” decision
by the U.S.’s Coalition Provisional Authority, according to the
report.  Army Chief of Staff General  Ray Odierno , who led the 4th
Infantry Division through April 2004, told Bowen that the U.S.
“underestimated the societal devastation” Iraq had suffered
under Hussein and “miscalculated how incapacitated the country
would be following the invasion,” according to the report.  No ‘Buy-In’  Bowen’s report catalogued past audits and outlines of U.S.
and international money sources for Iraq. He also interviewed
current and former policy makers from the U.S. and Iraqi
governments.  One significant shortcoming of the rebuilding effort was a
failure by U.S. officials to obtain genuine Iraqi support for
projects, retired U.S. Ambassador to Iraq Ryan Crocker told
Bowen. Instead, civilian leaders in the Bush White House and
Pentagon underestimated the ethnic and religious tensions in the
country and attempted to promote Iraqi exile leaders to
positions of power.  “Once the work was completed” after what U.S. officials
thought was “buy-in,” the Americans “frequently found that
there was no will on the Iraqi side to accept or maintain the
projects,” Bowen said in the report, summarizing Crocker.  Problems such as personnel shortages, insufficient
oversight staffing, weak planning and inadequate coordination
lingered in some degree for the duration of the war, Deputy
Inspector General Glenn Furbish said in an interview.  Troops’ Withdrawal  “These are things we pointed out in 2005,” Furbish said.
“They remained until the military left. That was the most
frustrating issue I encountered.”  The last U.S. forces left Iraq in December 2011, helping to
fulfill a promise that President  Barack Obama  made in his 2008
election campaign. Their withdrawal was hastened by the failure
of both governments to renew a status of forces agreement that
would exempt American troops from local prosecution.  Former Defense Secretary Leon Panetta, who served under
Obama, told auditors that failing to extend the agreement past
2011 “left the U.S. without important leverage” over Iraqi
political and military decisions, according to the report.  The reconstruction program’s early phases revealed a “lack
of thought,” Panetta told Bowen, adding “there did not appear
to be a sustained strategic vision of how reconstruction should
be conducted following the invasion,” according to the report.  Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki told Bowen that “the
overall benefit to Iraq was small when compared to the size” of
reconstruction funds spent.  ‘Positive Impact’  Asked whether the report provides ammunition for critics of
the Iraq invasion, Bowen said that wasn’t its intention. The
reconstruction effort “was a large waste, but also had a
positive impact,” he said.  “If we had better controls and better planning, better
oversight, better quality assurance, better quality control all
in place, we would have wasted less -- for sure. There is no
doubt about that,” he said. “But did we achieve important
things? Yes.”  Bowen said that among the best money spent was the $25
billion used to rebuild and train Iraqi forces after the U.S.
ordered the country’s military dismantled in 2003.  Now, with U.S. forces gone and auditors having concluded
their review of how well the Iraqis are maintaining U.S. funded-
projects, Bowen said he isn’t optimistic.  “We’ve got 10,000 people in the embassy who can’t get out
very much because of the security problems,” he said. “The
Sunni-Shiite conflict is back in a very serious fashion.”  “The biggest waste that may occur in the program -- we’re
not going to be able to document because it’s going to occur
after we turn our projects over to the Iraqis,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  