-- Iron Ore Surge Prompted by Demand, Speculation, China Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-07T09:55:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/iron-ore-price-surge-caused-by-demand-speculation-china-says.html
A recent surge in iron ore prices
was caused by changes in demand, market speculation and
“unreasonable” pricing methods,  China ’s top planning body
said. The biggest mining company said it hadn’t curbed supplies.  Chinese steelmakers re-stocked iron ore during the
traditional “winter reserve” period and ramped up purchases as
confidence in the economy improved, leading to an explosive
increase in demand in the short term, the National Development
and Reform Commission said in a  statement  on its website.  The three largest mining companies and certain traders
either delayed or controlled deliveries to make up for their
previous losses, creating a false impression of temporary short
supply, according to the NDRC. Some mining companies also bought
iron ore from the market to drive up prices, it said.  In response,  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  said it produced record
volumes of iron ore in the second half of 2012, all of which it
sold and delivered to the market.  “We aim to improve transparency by increasing liquidity in
the spot market,” Melbourne-based BHP said in a statement
today. “We sell significant volumes on a spot basis, including
through widely accessible trading platforms, irrespective of the
iron ore price.”  The NDRC said major mining companies based long-term
contract prices on “opaque” bidding, pushing prices up even as
a very small amount of ore was traded, according to the
statement. It didn’t name any producers.  Market Workings  “This is 600 Chinese mills versus whatever number of
miners and the market is actually very liquid,” Melinda Moore,
a bulk-commodities analyst at Standard Bank Plc in  London , said
by phone yesterday. “I don’t expect it to have an impact on
price. It’s hard to know what the NDRC are trying to achieve
with this because markets work as markets work.”  BHP said it was “very normal” for steel mills, traders
and producers to both buy and sell cargo to balance their books.
“This is also the case on both the Beijing and Singapore
platforms,” it said. “Such transactions occurring on the
platforms is to the benefit of all market participants in that
it supports transparent market pricing and market liquidity.”  Vale SA (VALE3) , the biggest iron-ore producer, declined to comment
on the NDRC statement in an e-mailed reply to questions. A
London-based official for Rio Tinto Group, the second-largest
exporter, declined to comment.  China imported 70.9 million metric tons of iron ore in
December, a record for a single month, the planning body said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  