-- Mitsubishi Unit to Seek $750 Million for Shipping Fund
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2013-03-06T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/mitsubishi-unit-to-seek-750-million-for-shipping-fund.html
A  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  subsidiary plans
to seek $750 million for a fund managed by former  General
Electric Co. (GE)  shipping-team members that will try to take
advantage of depressed prices in the industry.  MC Seamax Shipping Opportunities Fund will acquire and
manage 25 to 35 container ships for lease to liner companies,
according to a marketing presentation, a copy of which was
obtained by  Bloomberg News .  The strategy offers “significant” capital-gains potential
as vessel oversupply corrects, demand continues to grow and
buyer competition remains low, according to the Mitsubishi arm,
 Stamford , Connecticut-based MC Asset Management Holdings.
Container-ship values are approaching 25-year lows, the
presentation shows.  Scott MacDonald , a senior managing director at MC Asset
Management Holdings, didn’t respond to an e-mail and phone call
seeking comment.  The fund will be run by Cao Deambrosio and Ron Petrunoff,
who work together as shipping consultants at Seamax Partners.
Deambrosio was previously head of shipping at  GE Capital , the
middle-market finance arm of General Electric, where he worked
for 15 years. Petrunoff was president of GE’s transportation
finance business.  Mitsubishi will commit $50 million to the fund and provide
a $50 million debt warehouse facility while the fund is raising
capital, according to the presentation.  Higher Hurdle  The fund offers a higher preferred return hurdle, 12
percent, to investors who commit before a first close. After
that, the preferred return is 10 percent. Private-equity funds
must typically meet certain return thresholds, known as
preferred returns, before general partners can partake in any of
the profits. The new fund will charge a 1.25 percent management
fee on committed capital and 20 percent carried interest, or the
cut of profits to the general partner.  The firm can lever the fund with as much as a 60 percent
loan-to-value ratio, using debt to amplify returns, according to
the presentation.  MC Asset Management Holdings is focused on real asset
strategies that intersect with the core businesses of Tokyo-
based Mitsubishi, Japan’s largest trading company. Mitsubishi
has $137 billion in assets, the documents show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in  New York  at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  