-- J.C. Penney Stock Rating Cut at Citigroup, Oppenheimer
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2013-03-06T21:26:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/j-c-penney-stock-rating-cut-at-citigroup-oppenheimer.html
J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  had its ratings cut
at Citigroup Inc. and Oppenheimer & Co., leaving only one
analyst bullish on the department-store company, as patience for
its turnaround attempt evaporates.  Citigroup’s  Deborah Weinswig  wrote in a note today that a
meeting with managers including Chief Executive Officer Ron Johnson at the Plano, Texas-based company’s headquarters
prompted concerns that sales growth will take longer than
expected to return. Oppenheimer’s Brian Nagel said that risks
are building and could “disrupt or even derail” its recovery.
Both analysts trimmed their ratings to the equivalent of a hold.  Johnson, the former  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  retail chief, is losing
support for his overhaul of J.C. Penney after saying last week
that annual revenue fell 25 percent to $13 billion, the lowest
since at least 1987. Customers have been increasingly alienated
by marketing missteps, a failed attempt to transition away from
coupons and sales and Johnson’s plan to turn most of its stores
into collections of boutiques.  “We are less convinced that the course-correcting
strategies being implemented around pricing and marketing will
drive meaningful sales improvement,” wrote Weinswig, the No. 2
analyst for the sector in Institutional Investor’s latest
rankings. Still, potential asset sales, a private takeover and
senior leadership changes may support the shares and limit
further declines, wrote Weinswig, who’s based in New York.  Only one analyst, Christopher Graja of Argus Research
Corp., now recommends  buying  J.C. Penney shares, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. There are 13 holds on the company
and eight sell ratings.  J.C. Penney fell 3.5 percent to $14.43, near an almost
four-year low, at the close in New York. The stock has dropped
27 percent this year, the second-worst performance in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index after  Cliffs Natural Resources Inc. (CLF)   Board Pressure  J.C. Penney directors, including hedge fund manager  Bill Ackman , whose Pershing Square Capital Management LP is its
biggest shareholder, may push to oust Johnson or sell the
company if the sales plunge can’t be reversed this year, the
Wall Street Journal reported yesterday, citing people familiar
with the matter.  Vornado Realty Trust (VNO) , once J.C. Penney’s second-biggest
shareholder, sold 10 million shares of the company at $16.03
each this week, the New York-based real estate investment trust
said in a regulatory filing yesterday. That’s 6.1 percent of the
retailer’s common stock. Vornado, whose chairman Steven Roth is
on J.C. Penney’s board, lost more than $200 million on the
investment.  Martha Fallout  Macy’s Inc. (M)  and  Target Corp. (TGT)  will benefit the most from
J.C. Penney’s lack of a coherent promotional strategy and the
potential consequences of the company’s deal to sell Martha Stewart branded merchandise being canceled by a lawsuit,
Weinswig said. J.C. Penney also will be hurt by construction on
its home departments that won’t end until early May, she said.  The company will continue consuming cash and need to raise
additional capital, said Nagel, who’s also based in New York.  “The market is unlikely to afford JCP any benefit of the
doubt until clear evidence of a turn emerges,” he wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  