-- Japan MOF’s Nakao Nominated to Replace Kuroda at ADB
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2013-03-11T04:55:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/japan-currency-chief-nakao-pushed-as-kuroda-successor-at-adb.html
(Corrects Nakao’s age in seventh paragraph of a story
originally published March 7.)  Japan  will nominate its top currency
official, Takehiko Nakao, to head the Asian Development Bank as
Haruhiko Kuroda prepares to step down to lead the  Bank of Japan. (8301)   Nakao has “extensive experience in international finance
and development,” Finance Minister Taro Aso said in a statement
today in Tokyo. The vice finance minister is “the most
qualified candidate,” he said.  Aso didn’t say who would replace Nakao. The previous two
appointments were promotions of heads of the ministry’s
international bureau -- currently Tatsuo Yamasaki, 55. Mitsuhiro Furusawa, 57, head of the financial bureau and a former
International Monetary Fund official, may replace Nakao, the
Sankei newspaper said Feb. 26 without citing anyone.  Japan has held the presidency of the Manila-based ADB since
the institution was founded in 1966, and is tied with the U.S.
in having the largest voting power at the development bank.
 China  lacks sufficient support to grab the role and Japan can
retain its hold, said Masahiro Kawai, dean of the Tokyo-based
Asian Development Bank Institute, in an interview in January.  “Japan wants a Japanese person at the top of the ADB to
maintain a level of global influence,” said  Hideo Kumano , chief
economist at Dai-Ichi Life Research Institute in Tokyo and a
former central bank official. “There won’t be any change in
Japan’s currency policy when Nakao is replaced at MOF.”  Currency Intervention  Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe nominated Kuroda, who
has led the ADB since 2005, as central bank governor last week.
Current BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa steps down on March 19.  Nakao, 57, oversaw the government’s biggest-ever one-day
currency-market intervention on Oct. 31, 2011, after the yen
reached a postwar high of 75.35 per dollar. The currency has
fallen about 12 percent in the past three months on investors’
expectations for more aggressive monetary easing to counter
deflation. It traded at 94.03 as of 10:56 a.m. in  Tokyo  today.  In a statement today, Nakao said he will ensure the ADB is
backed by sufficient financial resources if confirmed as
president.  The currency official, who joined the finance ministry in
1978 and has an MBA from the University of California, Berkeley,
is the author of a 2008 book, “America’s Economic Policy: Can
it Sustain its Strength?” In 2010 he said the stability of the
international financial system is premised on the U.S dollar as
a “key currency.”  Kuroda, 68, is a predecessor of Nakao in the vice finance
minister job, directing Japan’s currency policy from 1999 to
2003.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  