-- Japan’s Wind Industry Headed for Boom After Solar Surge
-- B y   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e
-- 2013-03-06T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/japan-s-wind-industry-headed-for-boom-after-solar-surge.html
Japan ’s wind power industry will see
a boom in installations similar to an increase in solar capacity
in the nation since last year, a lawyer advising domestic and
foreign investors said.  Solar and wind have the best chances to expand in Japan’s
clean energy market after the government increased subsidies in
July, said Arthur Mitchell, senior counselor of White & Case LLP
in Tokyo.  “Wind is going to be the next big story,” he said in an
interview. “They just don’t want to do bad deals.”  Financing for wind projects has been hampered by
difficulties in obtaining enough land for utility-scale turbine
farms. The most likely places to site new facilities would be in
national parks and offshore, where government permission could
unleash large scale construction, Mitchell said.  Japan introduced an incentive program for clean energy in
July, which increased the nation’s solar capacity and prompted
fresh interest from  Softbank Corp. (9984)  and  Orix Corp. (8591)   Japan is offering the strongest support for onshore wind
market of 21 markets tracked by Bloomberg New Energy Finance.
Japan doesn’t rank in the top 15, which are dominated by  China ,
the U.S., Germany and Spain.  Mitchell said that investment will flow to the industry
once more bankers understand the risks and how to structure
loans for wind and solar projects.  “Once the Japanese banks feel comfortable enough to
finance, that’s when the mega market will take off,”  he said.  With solar, the incentives are strong enough to “get a lot
of excitement” from investors, he said. “It also means lots of
unqualified people getting into it or trying to getting into it.
We will find they can’t really get over to the finishing line.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chisaki Watanabe in  Tokyo  at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  