-- Japan Said to Plan Talks With South Korea on Joint LNG Purchases
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2013-03-06T07:24:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/japan-said-to-plan-talks-with-south-korea-on-joint-lng-purchases.html
Japan ’s trade ministry is set to
invite  South Korea  to discuss joint purchases of liquefied
natural gas as the world’s two biggest buyers seek to cut fuel
import costs, according to two government officials with
knowledge of the plans.  The ministry wants to meet for talks before September,
according to the Japanese officials who asked not to be
identified because the information isn’t public. Shinichi
Kihara, the director of the ministry’s international affairs
division, will announce the plan in a speech in Houston today,
the people said. A trade ministry spokesman in Tokyo and Sim
Sung Tae, an official at South Korea’s Ministry of  Knowledge
Economy  in Gwacheon declined to comment.  Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is under pressure to
narrow last year’s record trade deficit of 6.9 trillion yen ($74
billion) that was spurred by imports of LNG after nuclear  power
plants  were shut nationwide following the March 2011 earthquake.
The country paid 6 trillion yen for a record 87.3 million metric
tons of the fuel in 2012, customs  data  show.  This would be the third round of LNG purchase talks between
Japan and South Korea that began in November 2011, according to
a document on the trade ministry’s  website . The second meeting
between the countries that account for 50 percent of global LNG
imports was held in May 2012.  Kihara will announce plans to diversify LNG import sources
and tap new areas of supply such as  North America  and  Mozambique 
at the  IHS CERAWeek conference  in Houston attended by executives
from producers including  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  BP Plc (BP/)  and Saudi
Arabian Oil Co., according to a draft copy of his presentation
obtained by  Bloomberg News .  Kihara will also mention plans to hold the second
international LNG conference in Tokyo in the autumn of this
year, according to the draft of the presentation. He will also
refer to the Abe administration’s intention to restart nuclear
reactors as soon as safety is reassured.  ConocoPhillips (COP)  Chief Executive Officer Ryan Lance, General
Motors CEO Daniel Akerson and Saudi Aramco President Khalid al- Falih are among participants at the Houston conference,
according to the event website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in  Tokyo  at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  