-- Jeep Looks at Truck Variant for Wrangler’s Next Version
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2013-03-06T09:57:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/jeep-looks-at-truck-variant-for-wrangler-s-next-version.html
Chrysler Group LLC’s Jeep, the
sport-utility vehicle brand that had record sales last year, is
looking at a truck variant of its Wrangler model as the U.S.
manufacturer broadens its line-up.  Chrysler, majority-owned by Italian carmaker  Fiat SpA (F) , is
planning a next-generation Wrangler in 2016 that may include a
pickup version, Jeep President Mike Manley, 49, said in an
interview yesterday at the Geneva auto show. The Auburn Hills,
Michigan-based company also is discussing a new SUV larger than
its Grand Cherokee, Manley said.  “I’m a big fan of a Wrangler-based pickup,” Manley said.
The U.S. market would probably be the main source of demand for
the model, followed by the Middle East, he said.  Chief Executive Officer Sergio Marchionne, who also leads
the Turin-based parent company, is positioning Jeep as one of
the Fiat-Chrysler group’s global brands by adding production of
its SUVs in  China  and  Russia . Marchionne, 60, also is adding
Jeep output in  Italy , where Fiat is seeking to fill capacity
that’s not being used amid slumping demand for cars in Europe.  Fiat is relying on Chrysler to sustain earnings as
Marchionne works to end losses at the Italian manufacturer’s
mass-market brands in Europe that widened to more than 700
million euros ($913 million) last year. Marchionne reiterated
yesterday that Fiat plans to boost trading profit, or earnings
before interest, taxes and one-time gains or costs, to as much
as 4.5 billion euros in 2013 from 3.81 billion euros last year.  Division’s Strategy  Fiat  told investors  in New York last month that developing
Jeep models for  Europe  and other international markets to
“fully flesh out” the brand was among its top objectives.
Included in those plans is a small Jeep that will be built at
Fiat’s Melfi plant in southern Italy alongside a Fiat-brand
crossover called the 500X.  “For us to continue to grow, we now need to make sure that
we cover all of the SUV segments that are open to us,” Manley
said. “You’re seeing the growth in the small, B-segment SUVs,
which we don’t play in today.”  Jeep’s worldwide sales last year climbed 19 percent to
701,626 SUVs, Chrysler said in January. The brand topped its
previous record of 675,494 deliveries set in 1999. Jeep’s U.S.
sales rose 13 percent to 474,131 vehicles, accounting for 68
percent of the 2012 global total.  The small Jeep SUV, the Grand Wagoneer and new variants of
the Wrangler such as the pickup version would “give us the
coverage that we need,” Manley said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Geneva via 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  