-- JPMorgan to Join UBS in Exiting Australian Swap Rate Panel
-- B y   N a r a y a n a n   S o m a s u n d a r a m   a n d   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 2013-03-06T04:40:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/jpmorgan-to-join-ubs-s-withdrawal-from-australia-swap-rate-panel.html
UBS AG (UBSN)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  are
withdrawing from a panel that sets Australia’s benchmark swap
rate and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  is reducing its role in Malaysia amid
increased scrutiny following the global rate-rigging scandal.  UBS stopped contributions for the  bank bill swap rate  on
Feb. 4 and JPMorgan will pull out by the end of this month,
David Lynch, Sydney-based executive director at the Australian
Financial Markets Association, said by phone today. Citigroup
ended submissions for Malaysian ringgit  interest-rate swaps  and
the ringgit spot reference rate against the dollar last week,
said two people with knowledge of the matter.  The withdrawals underscore the risk that some rates will
become less efficient at determining borrowing costs with fewer
global banks participating.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  are among lenders that have withdrawn from some
panels as countries review their benchmarks.  “The reason why they’re pulling out is they’re concerned
about regulations and about legal liabilities,” said Sandy Mehta, chief executive officer of Value Investment Principals
Ltd. in Hong Kong. “If you have a smaller number of players,
you’ll end up in the same spot where you’ll have the risk of
inefficient rates over the risk of manipulation.”  JPMorgan advised AFMA on its decision to withdraw from the
Australian panel, said Andrew Donohoe, a Sydney-based spokesman
for the  U.S. bank , without elaborating. Caroline Gurney, a
spokeswoman for UBS in Sydney, declined to comment.  More Costly  “The compliance cost of contributing to global benchmarks
has definitely increased in the wake of global regulatory
actions,” said Lynch, whose organization represents more than
130 financial firms and publishes the Australian rate.  James Griffiths , a Hong Kong-based spokesman for Citigroup,
declined to comment on the lender ending its submissions to the
two rates in Malaysia. The New York-based bank continues to
contribute to the Kuala Lumpur Interbank Offered Rate, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Barclays, UBS and RBS have been fined about $2.5 billion by
U.S. and U.K. authorities for attempts to rig benchmarks
including the London Interbank Offered Rate, and more than a
dozen other firms are under investigation.  UBS through its own investigation found its traders
attempted to manipulate benchmarks including the Australian bank
bill swap rate, according to a footnote in a Dec. 19 order by
the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission imposing sanctions
against the Zurich-based bank.  RBS Withdrawal  UBS and New York-based JPMorgan follow RBS, which withdrew
from the Australian rate-setting group in April. RBS pulled out
of several panels last year including for the Tokyo and  Hong
Kong  interbank offered rates following a January announcement of
changes to its strategic priorities.  AFMA will look for replacements, Lynch said. JPMorgan’s
departure would reduce the panel to 12 members from the maximum
14 if the positions aren’t filled.  The bank bill swap rate is calculated by asking panelists
for the actual rates they observe in the brokered market at
around 10 a.m. Sydney time. The highest and lowest bids are then
sequentially eliminated until six remain.  The quote is used for short-term debt issued by the four
main Australian lenders --  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd. (ANZ) ,  Commonwealth Bank of Australia ,  National Australia Bank
Ltd. (NAB)  and  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)   In  Malaysia , the ringgit swap and exchange rates are used
by traders for hedging against interest-rate and currency moves
and speculating on their direction. Excluding Citigroup, 11
banks now contribute to fixing the rates daily, the data show.  Citigroup in September said it withdrew from the panel of
lenders that sets the euro interbank offered rate, citing a
dearth of trades between banks in the region. Rabobank
International, the biggest Dutch savings bank, exited the panel
in January, while Deutsche Bank AG said in February that it
would end participation in some Euribor rates.  “The fewer the players in any market, the less liquidity
and the less depth to the market,” said Mehta of Value
Investment. “It’s not a good sign.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Narayanan Somasundaram in Sydney at 
 nsomasundara@bloomberg.net ;
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  