-- Juventus Rolls Into Champions League Quarterfinals; PSG Advances
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-03-06T23:05:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/juventus-psg-advance-to-champions-league-soccer-quarterfinals.html
Juventus eased into the
quarterfinals of soccer’s  Champions League , while Paris Saint-
Germain held off Valencia to advance.  Juventus beat Celtic 2-0 last night in  Italy  to complete a
5-0 victory in the two-game round-of-16 series. Alessandro Matri
and Fabio Quagliarella scored as Juventus, which has won
Europe’s elite club competition twice, reached the final eight
for the first time in seven years.  “Class tells in the end and that’s what happened over the
two games,” Celtic manager Neil Lennon said on the website of
tournament organizer UEFA. “The last 16 is cutthroat and
Juventus were clinical over the two games.”  Ezequiel Lavezzi’s goal midway through the second half
earned PSG a 1-1 home draw with Valencia and clinched a 3-2 win
over two games. The French league leader last reached the
quarterfinal round in 1995.  “We fought like dogs,” PSG midfielder Blaise Matuidi said
on UEFA’s website. “We showed we are in the mix and will fight
to the end.”  Juventus and PSG are joined in the final eight by record
nine-time champion Real  Madrid  and  Borussia Dortmund , who
qualified two nights ago. The remaining quarterfinalists will be
determined next week.  After winning the opener 3-0 in Glasgow last month,
Juventus increased its advantage in the 24th minute when Matri
put in the rebound after Celtic goalkeeper Fraser Forster
blocked Quagliarella’s shot.  Second Goal  Juventus made it 2-0 on the night in the 65th minute as
 Arturo Vidal  drew Forster off his line then squared a pass to
Quagliarella, who tapped the ball into the open goal.  Juventus, which is unbeaten in 18 home games in European
competition, last won the Champions League in 1996. Celtic, the
1967 champion, was in the knockout stage for the first time in
five seasons.  “We played a good game, we won and we are in the
quarterfinals,” Juventus striker Paul Pogba said. “The game
was not as easy as it seemed.”  PSG advanced despite playing without leading scorer Zlatan Ibrahimovic, who was suspended after receiving a red card in the
opening 2-1 win in  Spain .  Valencia struck first at the Parc de Princes as Jonas
Oliveira picked up the ball just outside the penalty area and
fired a shot past goalkeeper Salvatore Sirigu in the 55th minute
to tie the series 2-2.  Lavezzi scored off the rebound 11 minutes later after his
initial shot was saved by Vicente Guaita.  PSG is unbeaten in 23 home matches in Europe dating back to
2008.  The Champions League resumes March 12 as Barcelona tries to
overturn a 2-0 deficit against AC Milan at home and Schalke
hosts Galatasaray with the teams tied 1-1. The next night,
Arsenal visits  Bayern Munich  trailing 3-1 and Porto takes a 1-0
lead to Malaga.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 