-- Kenya Vote Count Shifts to Hand-Tallying as Kenyatta Holds Lead
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r   a n d   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2013-03-06T21:03:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/kenya-vote-count-shifts-to-hand-tallying-as-kenyatta-holds-lead.html
Kenya ’s electoral commission began
the final physical counting of votes in a presidential race led
by Deputy Prime Minister Uhuru Kenyatta, who faces International
Criminal Court charges of crimes against humanity.  Kenyatta has 492,220 votes to Prime Minister Raila Odinga’s
375,299 out of the 24 constituencies for which final results
have been announced by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries
Commission. The electoral body opted to announce the final
returns, which by law must be physically delivered and
presented, after the electronic system to transmit provisional
data failed, IEBC Chairman Isaack Hassan said.  “Early on Friday, we should be able to conclude this
exercise,” he told reporters today in Nairobi, the capital.
“If there are any problems or delays, remember that we can
still go on to Monday.”  The election is the first since fraud allegations by
Odinga’s party after a December 2007 vote spawned two months of
violence that killed 1,100 people and left 350,000 homeless.
Kenya is East Africa’s largest economy and the regional hub for
companies including  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)   Kenyatta had 53 percent of the vote with ballots from more
than two-fifths of polling stations, while Odinga had 42
percent, according to provisional data on the Independent
Electoral and Boundaries Commission’s website.  Shilling Slump  The shilling headed for its biggest decline in more than a
year as investors became “jittery” over the slow pace of
results, said  NIC Bank Ltd. (NICB) , a Nairobi-based lender. The
currency slid 1.4 percent to 86.75 per dollar by 9:01 p.m. in
Nairobi, poised for its biggest drop since Jan. 4, 2012.  Shares on the Nairobi Securities Exchange gained for a
sixth day, extending the bourse’s All Share index advance to
15.2 percent this year. Foreign investors accounted for almost
half of all share trading in 2012 from about 10 percent five
years earlier. Turmoil after the last election triggered an 8.5
percent plunge in the Kenyan shilling and cut economic growth to
1.5 percent in 2008 from 7 percent in 2007.  Kenyatta, the 51-year-old son of Kenya’s first president,
Jomo Kenyatta, is facing trial at the International Criminal
Court for orchestrating violence after the last elections. He is
running with his one-time political rival William Ruto, a former
Cabinet minister who has also been indicted by The Hague-based
court. Both deny the charges.  Odinga, 68 and the son of Kenya’s first vice president,
lost in 1997 and 2007, when he accused outgoing President Mwai Kibaki of stealing the vote. It sparked attacks against members
and allies of Kibaki’s Kikuyu community and led to retaliation
against Odinga’s Luo supporters.  Rejected Ballots  “The concern among Kenyans right now chiefly is whether
results can actually be trusted after all these system
failures,” Tom Ocholla, a politics professor at the University
of Nairobi, said by phone. “It may be hard for the losing side
to accept the results.”  The commission has so far excluded 341,140 rejected votes
from the total of votes cast. The IEBC has asked for an opinion
from Attorney General Githu Muigai as to whether they should be
included, IEBC Chief Executive Officer James Oswago said today
by phone.  Odinga’s Coalition for Reform and Democracy wants the
spoiled ballots counted as votes cast, Chairman Franklin Bett
told reporters March 5. That may mean Kenyatta is unable to
secure more than 50 percent of the vote required to avoid a
runoff, Bett said. A candidate must get that majority and 25
percent of support in half the 47 counties to win outright.  Kenyatta’s Jubilee Coalition accused the U.K. of trying to
garner support for the inclusion of rejected ballots, according
to an e-mailed statement today.  Credible, Transparent  Claims that the U.K. has a position on the rejected ballots
are “unhelpful and wrong,” Christian Turner, the British high
commissioner in Kenya, said on his  Twitter  account.  The African Union’s chief observer, Joaquim Chissano, said
the vote, which had more than 70 percent turnout, was “credible
and transparent.” The European Union urged Kenyans to
“maintain a peaceful atmosphere” pending the announcement of
final results, chief observer Alojz Peterle told reporters in
Nairobi today.  Aside from the president, voters chose 290 lawmakers as
well as governors, women’s representatives and senators for 47
counties and 1,450 delegates for county assemblies. Kenya
enacted a constitution in 2010 that created a devolved
government to help share resources and power more equitably.  The country is the world’s largest exporter of black tea
and supplies a third of the flowers traded in  Europe .  Tullow Oil
Plc (TLW)  last year found the country’s first crude deposits. The
economy may grow as much as 6 percent this year, from about 5
percent last year, provided no serious violence follows the
elections, according to the International Monetary Fund.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net ;
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  