-- Klaus EU Criticism Ends as Czech Leader Exits Castle
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-03-07T14:30:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/klaus-eu-criticism-ends-as-czech-leader-exits-castle.html
Vaclav Klaus, who refused to fly the
European Union’s flag above his  Prague  castle residence, leaves
as Czech president today after a decade of criticizing the 27-
nation bloc.  Milos Zeman, Klaus’s rival for two decades, will become the
 Czech Republic ’s third head of state tomorrow after winning the
nation’s first direct presidential elections in January. Zeman
favors closer EU links, a shift from euro-skeptic Klaus who in
2009 delayed the signing of the bloc’s Lisbon Treaty.  “Brussels doesn’t like Klaus much, he has been a thorn in
their side for some time,” Mujtaba Rahman, a senior analyst at
the Eurasia Group in  London , said in an interview yesterday. “A
general sense that Klaus was unwilling to support or play a
constructive role in  Europe  is a very pervasive sentiment.”  Klaus, 71, oversaw the transition to a  market economy  as
finance minister and premier after the 1989 fall of communism.
In 2003, he succeeded President  Vaclav Havel , the former
dissident playwright who died in 2011. A fan of  Margaret
Thatcher , Klaus played a key role in moving state enterprises
into private hands.  He leaves office amid controversy. Klaus’s approval ratings
plunged after he granted a mass amnesty in January, prompting
the Senate to bring treason charges against him in a mostly
symbolic move.  ‘Arrogant, Clever’  An economist who is “as arrogant as he is clever,” Klaus
was among a group who formulated demands to the communist
leadership during the democratic upheaval in November 1989,
Timothy Garton Ash, a professor at the University of Oxford,
wrote in the New York Review of Books in 1990.  After leaving the medieval Prague castle, Klaus will join
the Washington-based  Cato Institute  as Distinguished Senior
Fellow, a title once held by one of his main influences, late
Austrian economist  Friedrich Hayek , according to a statement on
Klaus’s website.  In 2003, long before the euro area’s sovereign crisis,
Klaus predicted that the region’s differing economies would lead
to fiscal transfers from richer to poorer members. Later, he
called on Czechs to “have the courage” to reject the common
currency even as the country pledged to eventually adopt it
after joining the EU in 2004.  In 2010, Klaus asked Premier Petr Necas to look at whether
the nation may renege on its obligation to make the currency
switch, arguing that the economic and monetary union had changed
too much since Prague’s original pledge to join it.  The Czech Republic was “quite happy” that on entering the
EU it had no deadline for adopting the euro, Klaus said in a
Sept. 26 interview at Bloomberg’s  New York  headquarters.  2074 Euro  “So perhaps in the year 2074 we can join the European
Monetary Union as well,” he said. “No one is pushing us.”  Attempts to deepen EU integration and “move decisions
about the lives of the citizens of the member countries up to
the European level” may endanger the bloc’s achievements, Klaus
said at the European Parliament in February 2009, prompting a
protest walkout by some members of the assembly.  By contrast, Zeman envisages the EU evolving into a
federation with common foreign and defense policies, and
supports the future adoption of the euro.  “Any change from the status quo is going to be viewed
positively in Brussels,” Eurasia Group’s Rahman said.  Klaus and Zeman headed the two largest political parties in
the 1990s. Zeman, also an economist who worked as a forecaster
in the Academy of Science after the fall of communism, became
premier in 1998 when his  Social Democrats  formed a minority
government that ruled in an agreement with the opposition Civic
Democrats, then led by Klaus.  Amnesty Scandal  While Klaus’s euro-skeptic views resonated with Czechs, his
popularity plummeted to a record after he amnestied thousands of
convicted criminals and suspects, according to Prague-based
polling company Stem.  His approval rating fell to 28 percent last month, the
lowest of his 10-year presidency, compared with a peak of 74
percent in 2007. Stem polled 1,090 Czechs Feb. 4-11 and the
results have a 3 percentage-point margin of error.  The pardon that ended several cases of suspected corruption
pushed the Senate, the upper house of parliament controlled by
the opposition Social Democrats, to file a charge of treason
against Klaus at the  Constitutional Court .  The penalty if convicted is loss of the presidential post
and a ban on holding it again. Klaus has rejected the charge as
unfounded and on March 5 called it politically motivated.  “Even now, I’m convinced that it was correct” to grant
the amnesty, Klaus said in an interview with Czech Television
late yesterday.  Presidential Powers  The president, who until this year had been elected by
lawmakers, picks the leader to form a Cabinet after elections.
The head of state also influences  monetary policy  by holding the
sole right to name central bank board members.  As finance minister and premier, Klaus used free-market
principles to shape the economy of  Czechoslovakia  and then the
Czech Republic after the 1993 peaceful split with Slovakia, a
move he helped negotiate and which then-President Havel opposed.  Klaus was Havel’s ally in the aftermath of the 1989
revolution that ended four decades of communist rule. The two
became foes as Havel grew critical of legal shortcomings during
the economic transition led by Klaus.  In February, Klaus drew the ire of Finance Minister
Miroslav Kalousek for comments that Havel, described by former
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  as “an inspiration” to
human-rights defenders, espoused “extreme leftism” and
“pursued a modernist destruction of the existing human order.”
Klaus’s comments, made in an interview with Polish newspaper Do
Rzeczy, were posted on the presidential website.  “Klaus focused part of his political carrier on efforts to
make his significance overshadow Vaclav Havel’s,” Jiri Pehe,
director of  New York University  in Prague and a former adviser
to Havel, wrote in a Feb. 28 article on his website. “Partly
because of the amnesty, he is leaving without the fanfare that
accompanied the departure of his predecessor.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  