-- Kloeckner Posts Loss as European Crisis Cuts Steel Demand
-- B y   T i n o   A n d r e s e n
-- 2013-03-06T16:54:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/kloeckner-posts-loss-as-european-debt-crisis-cuts-steel-demand.html
Kloeckner & Co. (KCO) , the German steel
trader part-owned by the Knauf family, posted a loss last year
as Europe’s debt crisis eroded demand for the metal.  The net loss was 198 million euros ($259 million), compared
with a profit of 10 million euros in 2011, the Duisburg-based
company said today in a statement. Earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization including restructuring
costs fell to 62 million euros from 217 million euros.  Dwindling demand for steel from the auto and construction
industries in Europe and increased competition from  China  have
curbed prices and squeezed profit margins as producers grapple
with surplus capacity.  ArcelorMittal (MT) , the biggest steelmaker,
last month posted the lowest quarterly profit in three years.  Kloeckner said it is ahead of plan with a restructuring
program that involves eliminating more than 1,800 jobs, or 16
percent of its workforce. “We responded in a timely fashion to
yet another steep drop in steel demand in  Europe  by
significantly stepping up our restructuring program,” Chief
Executive Officer Gisbert Ruehl said in the statement. “More
than two-thirds of the measures are already implemented.”  Kloeckner closed up 0.7 percent to 11.50 euros in
Frankfurt, the highest level for more than 11 months.  Full-year Ebitda excluding restructuring costs fell 39
percent to 139 million euros, meeting a forecast of 130 million
euros to 140 million euros.  Americas Sales  The steel trader projects Ebitda of 30 million euros to 40
million euros in the first quarter and of about 200 million
euros for the full year. It expects a net profit for 2013,
Kloeckner said, without giving a figure.  Kloeckner reported 2012 sales of 7.4 billion euros, up from
7.1 billion euros. The company will continue to shift from
Europe to the Americas, “with significantly more than 40
percent of turnover already to be generated in the Americas
segment in 2013,” it said.  The net loss widened to 121 million euros in the fourth
quarter from 27 million euros a year earlier. The loss on an
Ebitda basis was 35 million euros, compared with a profit of 14
million euros a year earlier.  “The fourth quarter was better than expected, the outlook
for the first quarter is worse than expected,” Ingo-Martin Schachel, an analyst at Commerzbank AG, said by phone from
 Frankfurt . The forecast for the full year is in line with his
estimates, he said.  Interfer Holding GmbH, which owns competitor Knauf Interfer
SE, said last month it bought a 7.82 percent stake in Kloeckner.
Interfer, owned by Dortmund-based entrepreneur Albrecht Knauf,
is now the company’s largest shareholder, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Interfer said in a meeting March 1 that it “supports the
Kloeckner & Co. management board’s strategy of expanding
activities in the USA in parallel with systematic restructuring
in European markets,” according to Kloeckner. “Any other link-
up with Kloeckner & Co was not a topic.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tino Andresen in Dusseldorf at 
 tandresen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  