-- Korea Data Heralds Surprise China Exports Drop: Chart of the Day
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2013-03-06T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/korea-data-heralds-surprise-china-exports-drop-chart-of-the-day.html
South Korea ’s biggest export drop in
seven months suggests China will surprise the market and also
report fewer shipments in February, lessening the case for
monetary tightening in the world’s second-biggest economy,
according to Nomura Holdings Inc.  South  Korea  is the only one of  Asia ’s 10 biggest economies
to report February trade data thus far. Given that China is its
biggest export market, Korea’s sales drop signals that its
larger neighbor is poised to report weaker-than-expected
shipments, said Zhang Zhiwei, Nomura’s chief China economist.  The CHART OF THE DAY tracks monthly changes in the two
nations’ overseas sales since 2008. South Korea said exports in
February declined 8.6 percent from a year earlier, the second
drop in three months. Based on that result, Zhang predicts  China 
will announce tomorrow a 10 percent decrease when February
figures are released in Beijing. Nomura’s economist is among
only six of 33 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg that predict a
drop. The median estimate is for an 8.1 percent increase.  “The data suggests China’s recovery is not so strong,”
Hong Kong-based Zhang said. “We still call for the People’s
Bank of China to tighten policies, hike interest rates and
regulate shadow banking activities this year. But recent weak
macro data will only make the central bank delay it.”  China this week affirmed its 2013 growth target at 7.5
percent after the economy grew 7.8 percent in 2012, the slowest
pace in 13 years. China will report a February trade deficit of
$28.5 billion, according to Zhang. That would be the first
shortfall in a year and compares with an average monthly surplus
of $16 billion in the past three years. Growth rates for exports
and imports in the first two months are distorted by changes in
the timing of the weeklong Chinese New Year holiday, which fell
in February this year and January in 2012.  Nomura’s forecasts tie in with the new  export orders 
component of China’s official  Purchasing Managers ’ Index,
reported on March 1, which fell to a six-month low of 47.3 in
February. The broader PMI sank to a five-month low of 50.1,
according to data from the National Bureau of Statistics and
China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing. A reading of 50
marks the divide between expansion and contraction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  