-- Korean Air Files Sole Bid for Stake in Czech State Carrier CSA
-- B y   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a
-- 2013-03-06T14:11:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/korean-air-files-sole-bid-for-stake-in-czech-state-carrier-csa.html
Korean Air  Lines Co.,  South Korea ’s
biggest carrier, was the sole bidder for a stake in Czech state
airline Ceske Aerolinie AS.  Korean Air offered to pay 2.64 million euros ($3.44
million) for 44 percent stake in CSA, the ministry said in an e-
mailed statement today. The bid was based on an earlier estimate
by Ernst & Young that valued the airline at 148.5 million koruna
($7.6 million). Korean Air’s offer meet all the conditions and
is binding, the ministry said.  The offer has “great” potential for the further
development of both CSA and Prague’s international airport,
Finance Minister Miroslav Kalousek told reporters. If the
contract is signed, Prague’s Vaclav Havel Airport will become a
European hub for Korean Air, Kalousek said.  The government should assess the bid at its next session
and the  Finance Ministry  will recommend accepting it, Kalousek
said. If the government approves the offer, the final contract
could be signed in the second half of April, he added.  The Czech government sent a letter to about 50 of the
world’s largest carriers last year in an effort to find a
strategic partner or to sell the loss-making airline to.  Qatar
Airways , which indicated a preliminary interest in CSA, didn’t
submit an offer.  The first attempt to sell CSA in 2009 was scrapped after
the only bid cane from Unimex Group and charter carrier Travel
Service, which wanted to overhaul CSA. CSA, which reduced its
fleet, cut staff and services, is now part of Cesky Aeroholding
AS, the operator of Vaclav Havel Airport.  The government would only sell a minority stake in CSA to a
non-European carrier, such as Seoul-based Korean Air, in order
to keep the status of a European carrier, the ministry has said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lenka Ponikelska in  Prague  at 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  