-- Kuroda to Hit ‘Wall of Reality’ at BOJ, Ex-Board Member Says
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a
-- 2013-03-06T07:01:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/kuroda-to-hit-wall-of-reality-at-boj-ex-board-member-says.html
Haruhiko Kuroda will have limited
options for aggressive easing if he’s confirmed as central bank
governor as more Japanese government bond purchases heighten the
risk of a market bubble, a former BOJ policy board member said.  “Kuroda will hit the wall of reality,”  Atsushi Mizuno ,
vice chairman at Credit Suisse AG in Tokyo and a member of the
BOJ board from 2004 to 2009, said in an interview today.
“Increased bond buying would cause over-dependence on the BOJ
and that’s not healthy for the market. I see the risk of a JGB
bubble.”  Bond yields are near decade lows as investors expect the
BOJ to take more aggressive steps to end deflation once Governor
 Masaaki Shirakawa  steps down on March 19. Asian Development Bank
President Kuroda -- Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s nominee for BOJ
chief -- said this week the central bank should consider buying
large amounts of longer-term bonds.  “My concern is that Kuroda is over-emphasizing a bit too
much his will to end deflation without explaining his plan for
an exit strategy,” Mizuno said. “From the start he will try to
do something new, but I expect he will eventually return to an
extension of the current policy framework.”  Stocks (TPX)  rose today, with the Topix Index closing at the
highest since 2008 amid expectations for more easing. The
benchmark 10-year yield touched 0.585 percent yesterday, the
least since June 2003, before climbing to 0.67 percent today.
The yen was 0.1 percent higher at 93.21 per dollar as of 2:47
p.m. in Tokyo.  Mizuno said that a 2 percent inflation target cannot be
achieved by monetary policy alone.  Buying Time  “Productivity has to be much higher,” he said. “That has
to be boosted by the government’s growth strategy. As Shirakawa
has repeatedly said, monetary policy is only for buying time.
It’s not a panacea.”  As a BOJ board member, Mizuno was an advocate of interest-
rate increases before switching his position when the global
financial crisis prompted the central bank to cut the benchmark
rate and start buying corporate debt.  Last year, he criticized the BOJ for a lack of clarity on
its intentions, saying it was making decisions that seemed at
odds with the stance of its policy makers.  Kuroda told lawmakers in Parliament on March 4 that the
 Bank of Japan (8301)  will do whatever is needed to end 15 years of
deflation should he be confirmed as governor and indicated that
open-ended asset purchases could start sooner than next year.  The “scale and scope” of the assets purchased by the
central bank so far are not enough to achieve the price target,
Kuroda said.  Asset Purchases  The central bank currently buys bonds with maturities of up
to three years, as well as exchange-traded fund and other risks
assets, through a fund targeted to reach 76 trillion yen ($815
billion) by the end of this year.  In January, the central bank adopted the 2 percent target
and said it would move to open-ended asset-purchases from 2014.  Some economists say the risks that come with buying more
bonds may be worth taking.  “Those costs need to be weighed against the benefit of
ending deflation,” Barry Eichengreen, an economics professor at
the University of California, Berkeley, said in a telephone
interview last month. “Simply because something costs doesn’t
mean it’s undesirable.”  The yen’s alomost 12 percent fall against the dollar in the
past three months has bolstered confidence among some
manufacturers. Toyota Motor Corp. raised its profit forecast to
a five-year high. Hiroshi Tomono, the head of a steel industry
group, told reporters on Feb. 28 he expects the central bank
under Kuroda to act quickly in tandem with the government.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in  Tokyo  at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Masahiro Hidaka in Tokyo at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  