-- MTN Earnings Miss Estimates on Network Spend, Currency Loss
-- B y   J a n i c e   K e w
-- 2013-03-06T16:04:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/mtn-earnings-miss-estimates-on-network-spending-currency-losses.html
MTN Group Ltd. (MTN) , Africa’s largest
mobile-phone operator, reported full-year earnings that missed
analysts’ estimates, weighed down by foreign-exchange losses and
increased spending on networks.  Adjusted earnings per share climbed to 10.89 rand from
10.69 rand a year earlier, Johannesburg-based MTN said today in
a statement. That missed the 11.67 rand median  estimate  of 12
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Exchange-rate moves, including the decline of the Syrian
pound, Iranian rial and Sudanese pound against the rand curbed
adjusted earnings per share by 1.79 rand, according to MTN,
which operates in 22 African and Middle Eastern markets.  Capital spending rose 70 percent to 30.1 billion rand
($3.32 billion) as MTN upgraded networks to handle more data
traffic as consumers access the Internet from mobile devices.
This year and last will be “peak”  times for capital spending,
Chief Executive Officer Sifiso Dabengwa said at a presentation
to reporters and analysts in Johannesburg today.  MTN has “done well in adding networks in South  Africa  and
Nigeria,” Dabengwa said. “It’s very important, in order to
compete effectively, to improve network coverage.”  The company is competing for a new license in Myanmar in
order to expand into south-east Asian markets, Dabengwa said.
“I confirm we’re one of the 90 that have shown interest. The
timeframe is that they hope that by June they would have awarded
the license,” he said.  MTN shares fell 1.3 percent to 177.33 rand by the 5 p.m.
close in Johannesburg, valuing the company at 334 billion rand.  Money Out  “With the likes of  Iran ,  Sudan  and  Syria  there is some
pressure in that the true earnings value is affected when you
come to take your money out,” said Bruce Main, a fund manager
at Ivy Asset Management Ltd., which owns MTN stock. “Greater
geographical diversity has meant greater risk in this case, but
it is important to be there for growth.”  The spending on networks will “come off” over the next
few years when that investment starts to attract market share,
Main said.  Subscriber numbers rose 15 percent to 189.3 million last
year, MTN said. Airtime sales at the South African business
increased 4.8 percent to 21.1 billion rand as the unit sold 6.7
million prepaid phones and 1.3 million billed devices in the
year.  MTN is “quite comfortable” that risks posed by a lawsuit
brought against it by Turkcell Hetism AS have been minimized,
Dabengwa said.  Turkey ’s biggest mobile-phone operator sued MTN
for $4.2 billion in damages for alleged bribery last March after
losing out on an Iranian mobile license. MTN paid 300 million
rand in related costs in 2012, Chief Financial Officer Nazir Patel said today.  “We expect that the U.S. court will decide its motion to
dismiss such proceedings by the end of June 2013,” Dabengwa
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  