-- New York Assembly Approves Two-Year Moratorium on Fracking
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2013-03-07T03:17:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/new-york-assembly-approves-two-year-moratorium-on-fracking.html
New York ’s Assembly approved a two-
year ban on the natural-gas drilling method known as fracking,
after two previous attempts to block the practice failed and
with the state Senate taking a different approach.  The state has been studying the safety of hydraulic
fracturing since 2008, and blocked its use in the meantime. The
Assembly’s ban would lift in May 2015. Governor  Andrew Cuomo , a
Democrat, has said he’s waiting until the Health Department
concludes a separate analysis to make a decision.  “We will not sit idly by and endanger the health and
safety of our communities by rushing necessary health and safety
reviews,” said Sheldon Silver, the Manhattan Democrat who leads
the chamber. “We need to better understand the broad impacts to
our environment, our economy and the health and safety of all
who work and live in New York.”  The growth of fracking, in which water and chemicals are
injected into shale rock formations to free trapped oil and gas,
helped push natural-gas prices to a decade low last year. U.S.
natural gas production is at record highs and U.S. oil output in
February rose to the highest since 1992.  Previous moves by the Assembly to put off fracking have
been unsuccessful and the state Senate is considering a
different path. The lower house passed a one-year moratorium in
2010 that was vetoed by Governor  David Paterson . Another one-
year ban was approved in June 2011, and died in the Senate.  Senate Measure  Five breakaway Democrats who are sharing leadership of the
Senate with Republicans introduced a measure March 5 that would
require the state to wait until Geisinger Health System
completes a review of health histories of people who live close
to wells and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency finishes
another review of effects on drinking water.  The process poses a dilemma for Cuomo, 55, who must balance
prospects for the type of economic development seen in Ohio and
 Pennsylvania  against environmentalists’ warnings that it may
damage water supplies and make farmland unusable.  Rich Azzopardi, a Cuomo spokesman, didn’t respond to an e-
mail requesting comment on the Assembly’s vote.  Last month, Environmental Conservation Commissioner Joseph Martens said the state would begin issuing fracking permits
before creating regulations if the Health Department says
natural-gas drilling is safe. Health Commissioner Nirav Shah has
said he’ll review the Geisinger study before making his
determinations.  Geisinger, a Danville, Pennsylvania-based nonprofit chain
of hospitals, is mining its database of medical records to
determine if fracking has damaged patients’ health.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany  at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  