-- New York City’s Police Pension Fund Won’t Sell Gun Holdings
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2013-03-07T17:23:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/new-york-city-s-police-pension-fund-won-t-divest-gun-holdings.html
New York  City’s police pension won’t
sell about $10 million in gun-related holdings, the president of
the biggest officer union said.  The decision by the $26.8 billion fund contrasts with those
of New York City’s teacher pension and other public funds
divesting or considering it after the massacre of 20 children at
a Newtown, Connecticut, elementary school last year.  “While the social impact of pension investments can be a
consideration, there is no evidence that the manufacturers of
these weapons that are the tools of the trade for  law
enforcement  have done anything improper,” said Patrick Lynch,
president of the Patrolmen’s Benevolent Association. The pension
board’s primary responsibility is to make sound investments, he
said in a statement.  The PBA represents 50,000 active and retired New York City
police officers, many of whom fight gun crime directly each day.  Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  has made restricting sales a
signature issue. He serves as co-chairman of Mayors Against
Illegal Guns, a coalition of more than 700 mayors who advocate
new laws and stiffer enforcement of existing ones. The group
argues for measures to keep firearms away from criminals.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  Bullet Vendors  New York City’s police pension’s holdings were mostly in
two companies as of Feb. 6, according to Connor Osetek, a
spokesman for Comptroller  John Liu . The fund owned about $5.5
million in shares of  Alliant Techsystems Inc. (ATK) , which supplies
ammunition to law-enforcement agencies, and $3.7 million of  Olin
Corp. (OLN)  shares. Olin also makes bullets.  The $46.6 billion New York teachers’ pension said last
month that it would sell $13.5 million in stock of five gun and
ammunition makers.  “Our investment portfolio gains nothing by doing business
with these firms, and this is a sound decision that sends an
important message about our commitment to addressing the plague
of gun violence in every possible way,” Liu said in a  news
release  last month.  The comptroller acts as  investment adviser  to the five city
pension funds and sits on the board of four. Liu, a Democrat who
plans to run for mayor this year, declined to comment on the
police pension’s decision because it was made in a part of a
meeting closed to the public, Osetek said.  Protecting Pensioners  Bloomberg’s representative on the city’s teacher pension
case the sole dissenting vote in the 4-1 decision to divest.  “Pension decisions should rarely, if ever, be based on
other criteria except what’s best for pensioners, which should
benefit taxpayers as well,” the representative, Raymond Sarola
said in a prepared statement.  The California State Teachers’ Retirement System, the
second-biggest U.S. pension,  said  in January it would sell $2.9
million of  Smith & Wesson Holding Corp. (SWHC)  and  Sturm Ruger & Co. (RGR) 
stocks that it held through  index funds .  The $158 billion California teachers’ pension also holds a
stake in New York-based Cerberus Capital Management LP. The
private-equity firm owned Freedom Group Inc., the maker of the
Bushmaster AR-15 rifle that police said was the primary weapon
in the Connecticut attack.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  