-- Norway Oil Spending Slowdown Adds to Central Bank Rate Pressure
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2013-03-06T11:36:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/norway-oil-spending-slowdown-adds-to-central-bank-rate-pressure.html
Norway’s central bank may postpone
planned interest-rate increases this year and ease pressure on
the krone as the pace of investment in the country’s petroleum
industry slows, damping the economy’s main growth driver.  Spending on oil and gas in western Europe’s largest crude
exporter may rise to 198.7 billion kroner ($34.9 billion) this
year, Statistics Norway said today, citing its  quarterly survey 
of producers and explorers. That’s a reduction from a December
estimate of 207.8 billion kroner, it said. While spending would
still be at a record level, it would mean the rate of investment
growth slows to 15 percent this year from 2012, when spending
jumped 18 percent.  “A cooling off of this activity is a signal that the
entire economy may be levelling off,”  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA) 
Chief Economist Knut Anton Mork said in a note to clients. The
reduced estimate for spending “adds to the now many arguments
for postponing the next rate hike,” he said by phone from Oslo.
“The currency responds to the interest rate.”  Norway’s central bank has kept its benchmark interest rate
at 1.5 percent since March last year partly to cool krone gains.
Policy makers have signaled they may raise interest rates as
early as this month to temper a booming housing market.  The cut in petroleum investment estimate may “push the
interest rate path somewhat out in time,”  DNB ASA (DNB)  senior
economist Knut Magnussen said in a note to clients.  The krone, which has emerged as a haven for investors
seeking to escape Europe’s debt crisis, strengthened 0.1 percent
to 7.4287 versus the euro and was little changed at 5.6964
against the dollar as of 12:23 p.m. in Oslo.  Norges Bank is scheduled to publish its interest rate
decision, along with updated rate forecasts, on March 14.  -- Editors: Alastair Reed, Tasneem Brogger.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 Jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at   jbergman@bloomberg.net  