-- Nuclear Fights Loss of Credibility in Europe, Westinghouse Says
-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a
-- 2013-03-06T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/nuclear-fights-loss-of-credibility-in-europe-westinghouse-says.html
Europe ’s nuclear industry must fight
to regain the trust of investors after delays and cost overruns
at projects in  Finland  and France dealt a blow to its
reputation, said Westinghouse Electric Co.’s European chief.  “Banks, investors, the whole financial community finds it
difficult to trust the credibility of nuclear projects,” Yves
Brachet, the chief executive officer for Europe, Middle East and
 Africa , said yesterday in an interview at Bloomberg’s Prague
office. “The entire industry is suffering from the Olkiluoto
effect,” he said, referring to construction problems at the
world’s biggest nuclear reactor in Finland, which is about seven
years behind original schedule.  Low power prices, the collapse of European Union carbon
emission trading and the continent’s economic crisis sapped
investor enthusiasm for nuclear projects, which take years to
build and cost billions of euros. The industry was further
harmed after the 2011 reactor meltdown at  Japan ’s Fukushima
plant, which prompted  Germany  to plan an exit from nuclear power
by 2022.  Countries like Switzerland and Italy declared a nuclear-
free future while investors abandoned projects from Romania to
the U.K.  The cost of the 1,600-megawatt Olkiluoto-3 reactor,
supplied by a consortium of France’s  Areva SA (AREVA)  and Germany’s
 Siemens AG (SIE) , more than doubled to an estimated 8 billion euros
($10 billion), while Electricite de France SA’s new reactor in
Flamanville is also running late and is almost three times over
budget.  U.K. Power  While EDF, Hitachi Ltd., Iberdrola and GDF Suez SA plan a
combined 16 gigawatts of power stations in the U.K., EDF is the
only company making progress with its proposals. Centrica Plc,
EON SE and RWE AG have withdrawn from British nuclear projects.  “Five years ago, our mid-term plan was built largely
around new plants and only a small part was dedicated to
existing plants,” Brachet said. “Now our business model is
relying more on the life extension of the existing fleet than on
building new reactors.”  The U.K. needs to build 16 gigawatts of new capacity by
2025 to replace aging stations. The British government is in
protracted talks with EDF, one of the investors, to agree on a
price for power from a planned new plant at Hinkley Point in
southwest  England .  In continental Europe, Westinghouse, which is owned by
 Toshiba Corp. (6502) , is pinning its hopes on the Czech Republic, where
it’s competing against  Russia ’s Rosatom Corp. to supply two AP
1000 reactors at CEZ AS’s Temelin plant, which has two Soviet-
designed reactors that were upgraded with Westinghouse control
mechanisms.  Mid-May Decision  CEZ plans to announce the winner by mid-year and sign the
contract by the end of 2013.  That process also may be delayed, Brachet said. Areva,
which CEZ excluded from the bidding process last October for
failing to fulfil commercial and legal requirements of the
tender, has said it will seek all possible legal avenues at
Czech and EU levels to stop the process.  “We are concerned that Areva can delay the ability of CEZ
to sign the contract this year,” Brachet said. “It can
certainly happen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in Prague at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  