-- Obama to Push Health Data Vendors to Share Records Widely
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2013-03-06T21:05:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/obama-to-push-health-data-vendors-to-share-records-widely.html
The Obama administration will push
hospitals and software providers to share patient data in an
effort to maximize the benefits of electronic records, the U.S.
coordinator for health-information technology said.  The administration is considering steps such as extending
legal protections for physicians who share data and changing
Medicare and Medicaid payments to encourage open access, said
Farzad Mostashari, the top U.S. official on health technology.  The administration has set aside an estimated $27 billion
to help doctors and hospitals buy electronic systems. The
companies that build the systems have clashed over how to
exchange information across their competing systems. Vendors,
led by Epic Systems Corp. and  Cerner Corp. (CERN) , need to get on board
or risk losing customers, Mostashari said.  “The competition is trending toward who can be the most
interoperable,” Mostashari said today in an interview at the
electronic medical records industry’s  New Orleans  conference.
“The purchaser is saying ‘My payment now, and increasingly in
the future, will depend on how well I can share data and not on
holding it hostage.’ And they want vendors who can help them
with that.”  Mostashari also said the administration’s program to help
doctors buy electronic systems would suffer under the cuts to
the  federal budget  called sequestration that took effect
beginning this week. Payments to some physicians for the
purchase of records systems will be reduced by 2 percent
starting April 1, and his office may be forced to put off
projects such as setting standards for how medical devices or
nursing homes store information, he said.  Industry Tensions  The tension among software makers has been on display at
this week’s Healthcare Information and Management Systems
Society conference. On March 4, Cerner,  McKesson Corp. (MCK)  and three
other vendors said they’d agreed to write standards for
exchanging data across their systems, a step that would give
doctors easier access to patient information.  The group didn’t include Epic, the industry leader. Epic
Chief Executive Officer Judy Faulkner said yesterday that the
effort seemed more about competitors ganging up to blunt her
business than improving patient care.  Mostashari didn’t take sides in the debate, saying only
that the business included “fierce competitors.” While he is
encouraged by the industry’s search for its own solutions, those
steps may not be enough.  ‘Strong’ Intent  “We are expressing our strong policy intent to use all
available levers” to get competing systems to connect.
“Fundamentally, the overall market is moving toward” more
communication, he said.  McKesson, based in  San Francisco , declined less than 1
percent to $108.32 at the close in New York. Cerner, based in
 Kansas City , Missouri, fell 1.5 percent to $90.91. Epic is based
in Verona,  Wisconsin .  The administration put the money for electronic records
into its 2009 stimulus plan, arguing the technology will help
doctors coordinate care and cut down on wasteful spending. While
the number of physicians on computerized records has increased
since then, the benefits haven’t yet met expectations, said
Arthur Kellerman, a health policy analyst at the  Rand  Corp., a
 Santa Monica , California-based research group.  While Rand once predicted savings of as much as $81 billion
a year from electronic records, U.S. health-care spending has
continued to increase, partly because of systems that don’t
share information,  Kellerman  wrote in January in the journal
Health Affairs.  “The health IT systems that dominate the market are not
designed to talk to each other,” he said. New rules promised by
the Obama administration “are already triggering resistance
from providers and vendors.”  The administration today issued a “request for
information” seeking ideas on how to encourage more
information-sharing. New regulations, if any, won’t come before
2014, Mostashari said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in  New York  at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  