-- Obama’s Interior Pick Owns Stock in U.S. Lease Holders
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m   a n d   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2013-03-06T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/obama-s-interior-pick-owns-stock-in-u-s-lease-holders.html
Sally Jewell, President  Barack
Obama ’s nominee for U.S. Interior secretary, disclosed she owns
shares in companies such as  ConocoPhillips (COP)  and  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM) , which hold drilling leases managed by the department.  Jewell, the chief executive officer of Recreational
Equipment Inc., filed documents showing more than $2 million in
investments in stocks, bonds and mutual funds with the Office of
Government Ethics before her confirmation hearing scheduled
tomorrow before the U.S. Senate Energy and Natural Resources
Committee.  The shares include about three dozen oil, gas and related
companies, including Exxon and ConocoPhillips, which Jewell, 57,
said in a letter to the ethics office that she would sell.  The executive owns more than $50,000 in Exxon, Apple Inc.
and  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  stock, and is
expecting millions of dollars in deferred compensation and bonus
from REI, her disclosure forms show. The other individual stocks
she owns are of lower value, most less than $1,000.  Her total REI compensation in 2011 was $2 million,
including $754,307 in base pay and $895,093 in a long-term
incentive plan, according to a document on the company’s
website. In her letter to the ethics agency, dated Feb. 8 and
made available yesterday, Jewell said she would resign from REI
if confirmed, then begin to sell her stock. She also said she
will step down from the boards of the  University of Washington ,
Retail Industry Leaders Association and her local homeowners
group.  The Interior Department has about 70,000 employees who run
national parks, handle Indian affairs, lease public lands for
oil, gas and coal mining, and police safety of those operations.  Jewell started working at Mobil Oil Corp. in 1978, moved
into commercial banking then joined Kent, Washington-based REI
in 2000 as chief operating officer. She is an outdoors
enthusiast who has climbed 14,400-foot Mount Rainier, the
highest point in Washington state, several times.  Jewell donated $5,250 to political candidates over the past
two years, mostly to Democrats, according to the Center for
Responsive Politics.  If confirmed, she would succeed  Ken Salazar , a former
Democratic senator from Colorado who sought to strengthen oil
and gas regulations after  BP Plc (BP/) ’s 2010 Gulf of Mexico spill and
to expand solar and wind projects on federal land.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  