-- Loews’s Tisch Seeks Hedge-Fund Zip to Sidestep Bond Ugly Contest
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-03-06T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/loews-s-tisch-seeks-hedge-fund-zip-to-sidestep-bond-ugly-contest.html
Loews Corp. (L)  Chief Executive Officer
James Tisch, whose company oversees $43 billion in bonds from
insurer  CNA Financial Corp. (CNA) , said he’s counting on hedge funds
to boost investment returns amid near-record-low  interest rates .  Loews manages about $2.5 billion of hedge-fund investments
for CNA, Tisch, 60, said yesterday in an interview at Bloomberg
headquarters in  New York . The investments have returned 5 to 10
percentage points more than three-month Treasuries for more than
a decade, he said.  “That’s where we get some zip into our insurance-company
portfolio,” said Tisch, whose New York-based company owns about
 90 percent  of CNA. “It’s certainly not from fixed income.”  The  Federal Reserve  has held interest rates near zero since
December 2008 and expanded its  balance sheet  to more than $3
trillion through bond purchases to stimulate the economy. That’s
hurt insurers because they rely on fixed-income securities to
back policyholder liabilities and coupon payments to boost
profit. Rates are so low that they make Treasuries, municipal
debt, corporate bonds and below-investment-grade securities
unattractive, Tisch said.  “It’s an ugly contest,” he said. “Everything is really
carefully picked over.”  Five-year Treasuries yielded about 0.77 percent yesterday.
Similar-maturity  junk bonds  in the U.S. are yielding about 7.1
percent, compared with 1.28 percent for municipal and 2.13
percent for investment-grade corporate debt, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch index data.  Hedge Funds  Loews’s hedge-fund investments have included market-neutral
stock strategies and funds that invest in middle-market loans,
Tisch said.  Hedge funds  returned  3.6 percent  annually, on
average, in the four years ended Dec. 31, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Loews was  built  out of the partnership of Tisch’s late
father, Laurence, and uncle, Robert, who started out with a
single hotel in Lakewood,  New Jersey , in 1946. Their business
interests once included cigarette-maker Lorillard and a chain of
movie theaters. Today, the holding company comprises the CNA
stake, a luxury hotel chain and energy subsidiaries.  That collection of businesses plus other assets make Loews
worth more than $50 a share, Tisch said.  The stock  closed
yesterday at $43.08.  “The bad news is it’s not $50,” Tisch said. “The good
news is it gives us an opportunity to buy in the shares.”  Loews has done just that, repurchasing $1.3 billion of its
stock since the end of 2009. Tisch said his company remains
“unabashedly a conglomerate” even though its operations span
industries that may make it harder for some analysts to value.  Gaining Value  “The thing that I find most attractive about a
conglomerate, especially today, is it’s a place where you can
invest your money, go away for 10 years, and come back, and
hopefully it will have appreciated in value,” he said.  Loews sees value in hotels. The company hired Paul Whetsell
as CEO of the unit last year and, since November, has struck
deals to  purchase  properties in Boston and  Washington . The
company is focusing on larger North American cities as it looks
for deals.  Loews expects to grow mostly through individual
transactions rather than purchases of portfolios, Tisch said.
The company’s strategy is to put up 50 percent or less equity
for hotels by bringing in institutional investors as partners,
he said. It also may take over the management of existing hotels
for the Loews brand.  HighMount Exploration  Loews’s HighMount Exploration & Production LLC has been
switching to oil drilling amid a slump in natural-gas prices.
New technology has made it possible for energy companies to
extract gas from shale formations and caused a glut of supply.
The U.S. produced a record  29.8 trillion cubic feet  of gas in
2012, according to the Energy Information Administration.  Tisch has advocated exports of liquefied natural gas and
said yesterday that building facilities to ship the fuel around
the world wouldn’t raise prices that much for consumers. It will
create jobs, he said.  “Selling natural gas overseas is modestly good for
Loews,” Tisch said. “It’s really good for the country.”  Loews won’t invest in an LNG export facility, he said,
because of concerns that demand outside the U.S. could decrease
before the 10- to 30-year period for payback on such a project.
 China  or other nations may make the same advances in production
that the U.S. has seen, he said.  “I can’t believe that God only put shale gas and oil under
these  United States of America ,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  