-- Oil Trader Ex-Wife Shouldn’t Get Offshore Assets: Lawyers
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-03-06T15:25:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/oil-trader-ex-wife-shouldn-t-get-offshore-assets-lawyers.html
An oil trader’s ex-wife shouldn’t
have any claim to properties held by offshore companies in which
he invested as part of a 17.5 million-pound ($26.4 million)
divorce settlement, lawyers said at a hearing in the U.K.’s
highest court.  The three Isle of Man-based companies, including Petrodel
Resources Ltd., are “not relevant as a party to the
litigation,”  Tim Amos , the lawyer representing the companies,
said today. The firms have asked the seven-judge panel of
Britain’s  Supreme Court  to dismiss the wife’s claim.  Yasmin Prest appealed an earlier ruling that denied her
access to properties controlled by her ex-husband to cover part
of the 2011 divorce settlement, which Michael Prest hasn’t paid,
according to court documents at the U.K. top court. Her ex-
husband isn’t a party to the litigation.  Nigeria-born Michael Prest is “prominent in and successful
in international oil development and trade,” and estimated to
be worth about 38 million pounds, according to an earlier
 ruling . Yet British law provides that companies are legally
separate entities from their shareholders -- raising a so-called
corporate veil -- in order to protect investors from debts or
liabilities the company may accumulate.  “We well understand the wife’s frustration with the
husband,” Amos said on behalf of the companies today in court.
“We make no defense of him.”  Divorce Capital  The outcome of today’s case, which has seen family and
commercial courts collide, may impact  London ’s reputation as
what U.K. Court of Appeal judges have dubbed the divorce capital
of the world. Past rulings by courts in the British capital have
tended to favor the spouse with fewer assets.  “If the court rules against Mrs. Prest, the general theme
of the court’s generosity towards the spouse with less assets
won’t necessarily change, but it’ll make it harder for them to
get to that result,”  William Healing , a family law attorney at
Kingsley Napley LLP who isn’t involved in the suit, said in a
phone interview.  If the court gives clear guidance when it rules, “then
couples can plan their financial affairs appropriately so that,
if they divorce, there are no nasty surprises and the case of
Prest is not brandished as opening the floodgates to a cheats
charter,” said Miranda Green, a lawyer at Mundays LLP who isn’t
involved in the dispute, referring to individuals who put assets
into offshore companies to protect them in a divorce.  ‘Fully Enforceable’  The original court-ordered lump-sum payment of 17.5 million
pounds required to be paid to Yasmin Prest “is fully
enforceable by law against the husband,” Amos, the lawyer for
the companies, said on the second day of the hearing.  Michael Prest was a “wholly unreliable witness,” who
played a “game in which he has sought to manipulate the process
to his advantage,” Judge Andrew Moylan, said in the original
October 2011 ruling in which he awarded the payment.  A review of U.K. divorce law was triggered in September in
part by the case of German heiress Katrin Radmacher and ex-
JPMorgan investment banker Nicolas Granatino. In 2010, the
U.K.’s top court ruled for the first time that a U.S.-style pre-
nuptial agreement on dividing assets, reached before marriage,
should be enforced.  A three-judge panel in the U.K. Court of Appeal handed down
a split decision in favor of Mr. Prest’s companies in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  