-- Mol Leads BUX Stock Index to Second Day of Gains: Budapest Mover
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-03-06T16:38:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/mol-leads-stock-index-to-best-rally-in-3-months-budapest-mover.html
Mol Nyrt. (MOL)  and  OTP Bank Nyrt. (OTP)  led a
second day of gains in Hungarian stocks as news website Nol
reported the government plans to help foreign-currency borrowers
and global equities jumped.  Mol,  Hungary ’s biggest refiner, gained as much as 3.7
percent and closed 0.9 percent higher at 17,300 forint. OTP, the
country’s biggest lender, added 0.4 percent to 4,821 forint,
after an intraday jump of 1.2 percent. The benchmark  BUX index ,
in which the two companies have a combined 65 percent  weighting ,
climbed 0.5 percent, extending its two-day advance to 1.6
percent.  The government is considering converting overdue foreign-
currency mortgages into forint, forgiving a part and letting
banks deduct some of their losses from taxes, Nol said. Lenders
that have already made provisions for non-performing loans would
now get a tax break in return for their writedowns,  Akos Kuti ,
Budapest-based head of research at broker Equilor Befektetesi
Zrt., wrote in an e-mailed report today.  “This plan may not be bad for banks at all,” Kuti said.
“The question is how much of the bad loans the banks will have
to forgive.”  Hungarian commercial lenders would be open to writing off
part of the overdue foreign-currency mortgage loans in exchange
for a reduction in the bank levy, Daniel Gyuris, the acting head
of the Hungarian Bank Association, said in a phone interview
today.  Emerging-market stocks climbed to a two-week high as jobs
and service industry data signaled the U.S. economic recovery is
gaining traction. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  rose to a
record level.  “There is still abundant liquidity on foreign markets and
for once the Hungarian market is benefiting from that too,”
Balint Torok, a Budapest-based analyst at Buda-Cash Brokerhaz
Zrt., said by phone today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  