-- Mondelez Gets Indian Query on Cadbury Plant Tax Payment
-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 2013-03-06T07:29:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/mondelez-gets-indian-query-on-cadbury-plant-tax-payment.html
Mondelez International Inc. (MDLZ) , the
snacks company separated from Kraft Foods Inc. last year, said
it received a notice from an Indian government agency looking
into tax payments by a factory for its Cadbury business.  The Deerfield, Illinois-based  company  is reviewing a “show
cause” notice from India’s excise department,  Michael Mitchell ,
a Mondelez spokesman, said in an e-mail today.  India has accused Cadbury of dodging about $46 million in
taxes by pretending to produce at a factory that didn’t exist,
the Wall Street Journal  reported  yesterday. A report by Indian
tax authorities says the confectionery-maker manipulated
invoices and documents to avail of a tax exemption reserved for
new factories that were opened before March 31, 2010 in the
northern  Himachal Pradesh  state, the Journal said.  A show cause notice requires a company to defend itself or
provide an explanation for certain allegations. India’s
Directorate General of Central Excise Intelligence, a government
agency, detected a case of tax evasion of about 2 billion rupees
($36.5 million) at Cadbury’s Baddi factory, S.S. Palanimanickam,
Minister of State for Finance, said in a question-and-answer
session in parliament last year.  Mondelez is cooperating with authorities and can’t discuss
details at present, Mitchell said. The notice is related to a
plant in the town of Baddi in Himachal Pradesh, he said.  Kraft Foods split into two companies in October so the
international snacks unit, named Mondelez, could expand product
offerings in emerging markets. The remaining company,  Kraft
Foods Group Inc. (KRFT) , contains the North American grocery unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anjali Cordeiro in  Hong Kong  at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  