-- London Mayor Says U.K. Should Block EU Limit on Bonuses
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2013-03-06T11:57:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/london-mayor-says-u-k-should-block-eu-limit-on-bonuses.html
London  Mayor  Boris Johnson  said the
U.K. government should be ready to block European Union
proposals to limit banker’s bonuses and said the plan is an
attack on London as a financial center.  “We don’t try to cap the pay of oil executives or football
players,” Johnson said today. “I can see why people rage about
what happened with the banks but this is an attempt to knock
London off its perch and we’re not going to let it happen.”  Johnson said the U.K. should be ready to invoke the
“Luxembourg Compromise,” which allows an EU government to
block a majority decision when it is highly detrimental to the
national interest.  “I really hope Brussels will think again,” Johnson told
reporters. “It’s not just hostile to the greatest financial
center on earth. It’s hostile to growth across the EU. If this
did succeed, people would just head off to  New York  or
 Singapore .”  He was speaking at a media event in Brasserie Blanc in the
 City of London  to celebrate chef Raymond Blanc’s support for the
mayor’s drive to create apprenticeships for young people. Blanc
has taken on 21 apprentices at Brasserie Blanc restaurants.  “I’m looking to all my colleagues, from the little cafe
down the road through to the three Michelin star restaurants and
big hotels to support apprenticeships,” Blanc said.  He said that in the kitchen of his restaurant Le Manoir aux
Quat’Saisons, outside Oxford, there were just three local
British chefs. In France, the total would be much higher.  The mayor thanked Blanc for his support and called on the
capital’s 17 billion-pound ($25 billion) food and hospitality
industry to seek to employ more young people.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  George Walden  on books,  Jorg von
Uthmann  on Paris culture and  Ryan Sutton  on New York food.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  