-- Monti Won’t Back Italian Government That Threatens EU Reforms
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-03-06T17:15:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/monti-won-t-back-italian-government-that-threatens-eu-reforms.html
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti 
said he won’t back a new government that would threaten his
country’s commitments to the Europe Union and that Italy should
hold a new vote rather than install an administration that could
reverse fiscal discipline.  In his most detailed comments since Feb. 24-25 elections
produced a hung parliament and saw his coalition win less than
10 percent of the vote, Monti said none of Italy’s political
parties is capable of addressing the country’s problems.  “If the alternative is a government oriented to
interrupting Italy’s European path or the way of reforms, I
believe it would be better to hold new elections,” Monti said
at a press conference in  Rome  today.  Monti’s remarks came hours after Democratic Party leader
Pier Luigi Bersani, whose coalition won a majority in the lower
house of Parliament, presented a limited legislative agenda as
he tries to build support for a minority government. Bersani,
the front-runner going into the vote, was thwarted by former
premier  Silvio Berlusconi  and comic-turned-politician Beppe Grillo, both of whom gained blocking minorities in the Senate.  “No political force” is capable of confronting the issues
facing Italy, Monti told reporters. Grillo’s Five Star Movement
“doesn’t appear remotely in a position to solve the problems.”  Grillo, who slammed Monti’s austerity policies and referred
to the premier as Rigor Montis during the campaign, has called
for an online referendum on leaving the euro and wants to
reverse some of Monti’s key legislative efforts, such as easing
Italy’s labor laws and overhauling the pension system.  Bersani Shift  Bersani also signaled a shift today in his support for
Italy’s deficit and debt commitments, saying they were medium-
term goals and that it was time for  Italy  to climb out of the
“austerity cage” with more pro-growth policies.  Monti has invited Grillo, Bersani and Berlusconi for
consultations before a European Union summit next week.
Berlusconi and Bersani have confirmed that they will meet with
Monti, while Grillo has not responded, Monti said.  Monti said the party he formed prior to the February vote
would remain on the scene. Still, it was premature to speculate
on what role Monti would play if new elections were held.  Italy’s new parliament will convene on March 15 to choose
leaders of both houses, before President Giorgio Napolitano can
begin consultations with the political parties on forming a new
government. If no party can build a government, Napolitano can
try to convince the parties to put aside their differences and
back a so-called technical government led by a non-politician as
a way to avoid another election.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  