-- Too-Big-to-Fail Banks Limit Prosecutor Options, Holder Says
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2013-03-06T19:19:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/too-big-to-fail-banks-limit-prosecutor-options-holder-testifies.html
The size of the largest financial
institutions has made it difficult for the U.S. Justice
Department to bring criminal charges when there’s wrongdoing,
Attorney General Eric Holder said.  Criminal charges against a bank -- something that could
threaten its existence -- may also endanger the national or
global economies in the case of the largest ones, because of
their size and interconnectedness. That has “made it difficult
for us to prosecute” some of those institutions, Holder said
today at a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing.  “That is a function of the fact that some of these
institutions have become too large,” Holder told lawmakers.
“It has an inhibiting impact on our ability to bring
resolutions that I think would be more appropriate.”  U.S. lawmakers, including Massachusetts Senator Elizabeth Warren, a Democrat, have raised concerns that the largest
institutions haven’t been held accountable for their actions
that played a role in the worst financial crisis since the Great
Depression.  While Holder didn’t single out any specific institutions,
he said bank size was something Congress would “need to
consider.”  ‘New Twist’  Holder’s comments on bank size “add a new twist to this
debate” about whether action should be taken to downsize the
largest financial institutions, Brian Gardner, senior vice
president for Washington research at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods
Inc., said in a note clients today.  “This will further stoke the debate over breaking up the
large banks and will generate negative headlines for the largest
US banks,” Gardner wrote.  Holder’s remarks came in response to questions from Senator
Charles Grassley, an Iowa Republican who has criticized the
Justice Department’s lack of prosecutions against banks.  Grassley and Senator Sherrod Brown, an Ohio Democrat, sent
the Justice Department a letter on Jan. 29 asking whether the
federal government avoids prosecuting banks that they described
as “too big to jail.” The two senators specifically cited the
$1.9 billion settlement between the government and  HSBC Holdings
Plc. (HSBA)  to resolve allegations that included money laundering for
criminal organizations.  Internal Rules  Judith C. Appelbaum, principal deputy assistant attorney
general, defended what she called the department’s “vigorous
enforcement against wrongdoing” in a letter to Brown dated Feb.
27. Federal prosecutors must follow internal rules, which
include taking into account the economic impact, to assess
whether to pursue a criminal case, she said.  The Justice Department remains willing to bring charges
against a corporation of any size, she wrote. The Justice
Department secured a guilty plea from the Japanese subsidiary of
UBS AG in a resolution of allegations that the bank rigged
interest rates. A  Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc subsidiary also
pleaded guilty to charges in that bank’s settlement with
authorities in the global rate-rigging probe.  Still, Holder said going after individuals remains the best
way to halt wrongdoing on Wall Street.  “The greatest deterrent effect is not by the prosecution
of any corporation, though that’s important,” he told Grassley.
“The greatest deterrent effect is to prosecute the individuals
in the corporation who are responsible for those decisions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  