-- Too Many Troops May Doom U.S. in Budget War
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-03-06T23:26:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/too-many-troops-may-doom-u-s-in-budget-war.html
Blinking for the first time since
budget sequestration went into effect last week,  House
Republicans  want  to restore  $10 billion to a category of Defense
Department spending that few Americans probably know exists:
“operations and maintenance.” Budgeting wonks know better.  O&M, which includes everything from upkeep of military
hardware to flight-simulator training to salaries for the
department’s 800,000 civilians, is the biggest platter on the
Pentagon budgetary buffet, at $209 billion for fiscal 2013. Pay
and benefits for troops are second at $135 billion, while
purchases of new weapons lag at $98 billion.  Moreover, according to the Office of Management and Budget,
O&M costs are expected to rise by almost 50 percent by 2030 (in
2013 dollars), while troop personnel costs will increase by 25
percent. Procurement, the poster boy for Pentagon free-spending,
will increase only 15 percent.  What do these figures mean for the future of our fighting
forces? That while runaway spending on F-35 fighters and other
big-ticket programs  exposed  in a Bloomberg News investigation
last week will need paring, solving the Pentagon’s long-term
 budget problem  will depend greatly on cuts in the number of
troops and the backup army of civilians and contractors that
supports them, as well as smart reforms to pensions and health
care.  Comparable Raises  Obviously, any plan to reform personnel costs has to
recognize the extreme sacrifice of the men and women in uniform.
Congress has done so, perhaps too generously, increasing active-
duty compensation by 28 percent since 2000. The average service
member and officer make 5 percent to 10 percent more in base pay
than a comparably qualified civilian -- and that doesn’t take
into account benefits, housing and subsistence allowances,
“combat pay,” and the tax advantages of serving in a combat
zone. Simply bringing pay increases in line with the Employment
Cost Index would save $16.5 billion over the next five years,
according to the Pentagon.  For savings of an entirely different magnitude, however, we
will need to envision a much smaller military, particularly in
the Army and Marines. The  Barack Obama  administration’s sea
power-dependent “pivot to Asia” and its decision to  give up 
the standing capability to fight two major land wars at once
open the door for a complete overhaul of active forces.  Among those thinking radically are retired Admiral Gary Roughead, a former chief of Naval operations, and Kori Schake of
the  Hoover Institution , who have  mapped out a plan  reducing the
Army to 290,000 soldiers from a proposed 490,000 and the Marine
Corps to 172,000 from the current 202,000, while boosting the
Army Reserves and National Guard by 100,000 troops. More
realistically, simply going back to 1990s levels -- with 450,000
in the Army and 160,000 Marines -- would save $80 billion over a
decade.  Health-care costs in the military have been rising even
more rapidly than for the rest of the U.S. -- by 300 percent
since 2001. Tricare, the comprehensive plan for active-duty
troops, retirees and their families, requires too little cost-
sharing, and even modest proposals by outgoing Secretary of
Defense  Leon Panetta  to increase annual fees ran into
congressional flak. Lawrence Korb, a former assistant secretary
of defense, and his colleagues at the Center for American
Progress have outlined reforms -- raising enrollment fees,
limiting double-coverage for retirees who pursue second careers
and raising co-pays to stem overtreatment -- to save $9 billion
a year.  Fairer Retirement  Pension reform can save money and improve fairness.
Currently, those who serve for less than 20 years -- 83 percent
of those who join the military -- get nothing, while those who
do the full hitch can retire in their late 30s and get decades
of benefits. The Pentagon’s Defense Business Board in 2011
proposed a  better system  for future troops that would introduce
401(k) plans, raise retirement ages, limit annual payouts to
younger retirees and benefit all those serving more than five
years. This could save $70 billion a year by 2034. The Pentagon
would also do well to cut a head-scratcher of a program that
gives $1 billion a year in  unemployment checks  to people who
left the armed forces voluntarily.  Some will argue that cutting health benefits and pensions
and slowing pay increases will hamper recruiting and retention.
That’s generally not a bad thing -- we are trying to cut
manpower, after all. Second, cuts in these areas may not be deal
breakers. According to a  groundbreaking 2012 survey  by  Todd
Harrison  of the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments,
service members put a low value on many of the most expensive
(and often tax-free) benefits of military life -- including
Tricare for Life, free health care for dependents and receiving
retirement benefits before age 50. Far more important to them
were less-costly things such as more vacation days, shopping at
the PX, and being able to choose their next duty stations and
length of tour.  As for that giant operations and maintenance account, we
simply have too many people on the payroll who are not service
members and too many bases in the U.S. and abroad. The 800,000
civilian staff and 700,000 contractors -- including 5,000 in the
office of the secretary of defense alone -- outnumber active-
duty troops.  “While the fighting force is coming down, the overhead
continues to grow,” said Arnold Punaro, a retired major general
and Defense Business Board member. “You want to put your money
in the tip of the spear, not in the rear with the gear.” He’s
right; the Pentagon should heed the board’s  detailed plan  for
eliminating 110,000 jobs and reducing overlap among combat
commands.  Base closings are a political minefield, but commissions
from 1988 to 1995 did four rounds of shuttering excess
facilities in a manner that the services and Congress perceived
as fair. Time to repeat the exercise; bases that remain must
also find efficiencies such as paring down commissaries and
eliminating elementary schools if children are able to attend
local public schools.  Appropriate Moment  Although the full effects of sequestration may well be
averted, the Pentagon will probably suffer the $1 trillion in
defense cuts over 10 years called for under the law.
Fortunately, the end of the wars in Afghanistan and  Iraq , a
strategic shift toward  Asia , and rising asymmetrical and small-
state threats worldwide have created the ripest moment for a
military overhaul since the aftermath of World War II.  New Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel would have his work
cut out even if he hadn’t started the job bloodied by a
distressing confirmation process. The nation’s long-term
security depends on his finding ways for the military to do
more, more efficiently.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 