-- Top Stock Kroton’s School-Loans Growth Decelerates
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2013-03-06T22:56:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/top-stock-kroton-s-school-loans-growth-decelerates.html
Kroton Educacional SA (KROT3) , the best-
returning stock among Brazil’s  top 100 , is no longer investors’
favorite education company.  Kroton is gaining less than for-profit university rivals
 Anhanguera Educacional Participacoes SA (AEDU3)  and  Estacio (ESTC3) 
Participacoes SA in 2013 after last year’s 152 percent rally.
Kroton, which became the top provider of online courses through
acquisitions, probably will grow at a slower pace after adding
the most students using the government’s Fies loan program, said
Bruno Giardino, a Banco Santander SA analyst in Sao Paulo.  “Anhanguera has a much bigger potential base for Fies
students than Kroton and Estacio,” said Sandra Peres, an
analyst at brokerage Coinvalores. Estacio raised 768.7 million
reais ($391.2 million) in a January share sale and may boost
purchases to expand into online learning, she said.  Demand for advanced degrees in  Brazil  is booming as a
middle class that grew by 40 million people in the eight years
through 2011 sees higher education as the path to better jobs
and bigger paychecks. The government seeks to boost state and
private university enrollment by almost 50 percent to 10 million
by 2020 from 6.7 million now.  Anhanguera was the best-performing  education stock  this
year through yesterday with a 19 percent gain, followed by 17
percent for Estacio and 15 percent for Kroton. That compares
with an 8.2 percent drop for the benchmark Bovespa index.  Kroton fell 0.4 percent to 26.45 reais at the close in Sao
Paulo. Anhanguera rose 0.6 percent to 41.20 reais, while Estacio
dropped 1.8 percent to 47.85 reais.  Kroton Discount  Kroton trades at an 84 percent  discount  to Anhanguera and
34 percent to Estacio, based on trailing price-earnings ratios
in the past 12 months. About 43 percent of Kroton undergraduates
have Fies loans with interest rates of 3.4 percent, less than
half the nation’s 7.25 percent benchmark rate. That tops the 27
percent of students at Anhanguera and 19 percent at Estacio,
Bradesco BBI analysts said in a Feb. 15 report.  “There is a closing in distance among the companies,”
said Luciano Campos, an analyst at HSBC Bank Brasil SA in  Sao
Paulo , who has an overweight recommendation on Estacio and rates
Kroton as underweight. Strong growth at Kroton is already priced
into his estimates, he said.  U.S. Contrast  The rally in Brazilian for-profit universities contrasts
with the regulatory scrutiny of their U.S. peers amid complaints
that recruiters pressure students to enroll and dodge questions
about the programs’ cost. A Senate report found last year that
their marketing expense tops instruction spending and that more
staff is devoted to signing up new students than ensuring the
success of their existing ones.  Apollo Group Inc. (APOL) , the biggest U.S. for-profit university,
plunged 61 percent in the past year through yesterday, while the
second-largest,  DeVry Inc. (DV) , lost 14 percent.  The struggles of U.S. education companies aren’t likely to
be repeated in Brazil,  Banco Santander ’s Giardino said.  “Because they are cost-competitive and have standardized
curricula, academic quality is much better than that offered by
local institutions,” he said.  Kroton probably will report an  87 percent  jump in annual
revenue when it releases financial results on March 19, based on
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. That’s more than
twice the projected 33 percent increase for Valinhos, Brazil-
based Anhanguera and four times the 20 percent gain at Estacio.  ‘Very Interesting’  “The growth we have been seeing wouldn’t be so relevant
without Fies,” said Carlos Lazar, Kroton’s investor relations
director. Kroton plans to invest more in 2013 than it did last
year, he said.  “Although we are up a lot, we have an upside that is still
very interesting for investors and we have more to deliver,”
Lazar said in a telephone interview from  Belo Horizonte , where
the company is based.  More-profitable distance-learning courses, conducted online
or in satellite classrooms with students and teachers sometimes
separated by thousands of miles, also helped, said Coinvalores’
Peres, who is based in Sao Paulo.  “Kroton wasn’t playing around” when it made distance
learning a pillar of its strategy, Peres said. About 66 percent
of the company’s student body is signed up for distance
learning. Anhanguera has 36 percent of its enrollment in similar
courses, compared with 19 percent at Estacio.  ‘Very Ambitious’  “We have very ambitious distance-learning growth plans,”
said Marcos Lemos, executive director of distance learning at
Estacio. The Rio de Janeiro-based company’s distance-learning
segment will “not necessarily be growing through acquisitions”
and will expand organically around the country, he said.  Anhanguera declined to comment on Fies funding and
distance-learning expansion.  Even with an burgeoning middle class, industry growth may
reach its zenith in 2015, said HSBC’s Campos. Colleges already
offer more seats than there are students to fill them, he said.  “People are buying the stock like there won’t be a peak,
like there are no limits to the growth,” Campos said. “The
sector is attracting investors because of potential for growth
and also because it offers protection against a slowing economy.
Whether that’s really the case remains to be seen.”  Investors remain bullish because more families are seeing
education as an opportunity to get better jobs, said Jorge Simino, chief investment officer at pension fund Funcesp.  “Families that can finally get a higher education will
defend this,” Simino said in an interview at Bloomberg’s Sao
Paulo offices on Feb. 27. “They won’t give it up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in Sao Paulo at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  