-- Morgan Stanley Seeks Dismissal of MetLife Mortgage Suit
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-03-06T20:23:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/morgan-stanley-seeks-dismissal-of-metlife-mortgage-suit.html
Morgan Stanley asked a judge to
dismiss a suit filed by  MetLife (MET)  Inc. over mortgage-backed
securities, saying the insurer knew the U.S. housing market was
starting to deteriorate before it bought most of them.  MetLife had invested about $56.5 billion in residential
mortgage-backed securities before 2008, making it a
“sophisticated investor,” and the insurer that same year
bought the mortgage unit of First Horizon National Corp., which
had originated loans for securities in the case, lawyers for
Morgan Stanley said today during a hearing before New York State
Supreme Court Justice Eileen Bransten in  Manhattan .  The New York-based insurer knew that underwriting standards
for mortgages had started to deteriorate and had already begun
to reduce its exposure to mortgage-backed securities by mid-
2007, before it made 36 of the 52 purchases at issue in the
case,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  attorneys said in a court filing.  “Not only did MetLife invest more than $50 billion in
mortgage-backed securities, one of their affiliates originated
the mortgages that are alleged to be fraudulent in this case,”
James P. Rouhandeh of Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP, an attorney for
New York-based Morgan Stanley, said during today’s hearing.  Fraud Claim  MetLife, the largest U.S. life insurer, sued Morgan Stanley
in April, accusing the investment bank of fraud and other claims
involving $757 million in residential mortgage-backed securities
purchased in 2006 and 2007.  MetLife said Morgan Stanley told it that the loans backing
the securities were originated based on “specific underwriting
guidelines” and collateralized by properties that had been
“accurately appraised.”  The case is Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. v. Morgan
Stanley, 651360/2012,  New York  State Supreme Court, New York
County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court at 
8969 or  cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  