-- Senate to Consider Government Funding Bill Next Week
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2013-03-07T17:22:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/house-passes-stopgap-measure-to-avoid-government-shutdown.html
The Senate will consider a measure
next week to fund the U.S. government through September after
the House passed its plan to avoid a shutdown and preserve new
spending cuts.  The Republican-controlled House, on a 267-151 vote,
yesterday passed a stopgap measure to keep the government
operating after current spending authority expires March 27. The
bill goes to the Democratic-led Senate, where Majority Leader
 Harry Reid  of  Nevada  signaled that it will be altered to reflect
priorities he didn’t identify.  “ I would urge Democrat leaders in the Senate to not get
greedy and get carried away and try to put forward a possibility
of a government shutdown,” House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio
Republican, told reporters in  Washington  today. “Our goal here
is to cut spending, not to shut down the government.”  The Senate will take up the issue next week, Reid said
March 5. Both parties and President  Barack Obama  have said they
want to reach an agreement in time to keep the government
operating.  In a reminder of budget disputes to come, Boehner
reiterated today he would insist on dollar-for-dollar spending
cuts for an increase in the U.S. debt limit. Federal borrowing
authority is scheduled to expire May 19.  Automatic Cuts  The House measure retains $85 billion in automatic cuts
that began March 1 -- a reduction of 5.8 percent through the
fiscal year ending Sept. 30. Boehner called the measure
“straightforward and reasonable” in a statement after House
passage.  The House-passed legislation would finance the government
at an annual rate of about $982 billion. It would give the
Defense and Veterans Affairs departments more leeway to decide
how to implement the automatic spending reductions, known as
sequestration.  The Senate Appropriations Committee, led by Barbara Mikulski, a Maryland Democrat, is seeking in its bill to provide
the same level of funding while giving flexibility in spending
to additional government agencies.  Senate Republican Leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky  told
reporters March 5 there is “a sense of urgency and cooperation
on both sides” to agree on legislation that can pass the House
and Senate.  ‘Confrontational’ Scenario  “There seems to be no interest on either side in having a
kind of confrontational government shutdown scenario,”
McConnell said.  Still, two Senate Republicans,  Mike Lee  of  Utah  and  Ted Cruz  of  Texas , said they would seek to delete provisions that
finance the Obama administration’s implementation of the health-
care overhaul set to take effect next year.  Such an effort may delay a vote on the bill. Reid would
need 60 votes to overcome Republican delaying tactics and
complete debate on the measure.  Oklahoma Republican Tom Cole said during House floor debate
yesterday that the House measure would cut spending by “2.4
percent of the entire $3.5 trillion  federal budget .”  “We are willing to renegotiate where those cuts come
from,” Cole said.  Georgia Republican Austin Scott said he supported the House
measure even though some of the cuts are “not exactly where we
would like to see some of them.” Scott was first elected in
2010 on the wave of anti-tax Tea Party support that swept his
party into a House majority.  ‘Stability’ Important  “Stability right now is more important than anything
else,” Scott said. “It gives our military the ability to deal
with the sequestration in a more efficient manner,” he said in
an interview.  The automatic budget reductions, if they remain in place,
will cause a 0.6 percentage-point reduction in U.S. economic
growth this year, the nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office 
has estimated. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told the
Senate Banking Committee on Feb. 26 that “this additional near-
term burden on the recovery is significant.”  Investors haven’t been deterred so far. The  Dow Jones (INDU) 
Industrial Average reached another record high today, rising
45.92 points, or 0.3 percent, to a record 14,342.16. The
 Standard & Poor (SPX) ’s 500 Index added 0.2 percent to 1,544.79 at
11:43 a.m. in  New York .  Treasury 10-year note yields increased four basis points,
or 0.04 percentage point, to 1.98 percent at 11:32 a.m. in New
York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data.  Vote Breakdown  The House passed its bill, H.R.933, with support from 214
Republicans and 53 Democrats, while 137 Democrats and 14
Republicans voted against it.  New York Representative  Nita Lowey , the House
Appropriations Committee’s top Democrat, said in a statement
opposing the bill that the spending cuts preserved in it “will
result in job losses and furloughs, slowed economic growth” and
reduced government services.  The House bill would give the Defense Department an extra
$10 billion to train troops, maintain weapons and pay for
operations. It would let the department transfer as much as $4
billion between accounts for purposes such as “unforeseen
military requirements,” with advance notice to Congress.  Additional Funding  It provides additional money for the Energy Department to
continue modernizing the nation’s nuclear weapons to ensure
their safety and reliability.  The stopgap measure would ensure that the  Federal Bureau  of
Investigation and the U.S. Border Patrol won’t have to furlough
or fire agents. Another provision would provide more money to
the Interior Department and the Forest Service to fight
wildfires on drought-stricken federal lands.  The House bill would cancel a 0.5 percent pay raise for
federal civilian employees scheduled to take effect in April,
the first time the federal pay schedule was to be increased
since 2010. The provision, opposed by Democrats, is expected to
save $11 billion over 10 years, Republicans have said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  