-- Hovnanian Reports a Narrower Loss as Sales of Homes Rise
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2013-03-06T21:15:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/hovnanian-reports-narrower-first-quarter-loss-as-home-sales-rise.html
Hovnanian Enterprises Inc. (HOV) , the
 best-performing  U.S. homebuilder stock in the past 12 months,
reported a narrower loss for its fiscal first quarter as sales
and orders increased amid a housing rebound.  The net loss for the three months ended Jan. 31 was $11.3
million, or 8 cents a share, compared with $18.3 million, or 17
cents, a year earlier, the  Red Bank , New Jersey-based company
said today in a statement. The average of eight analyst
 estimates  was for a loss of 10 cents a share, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Hovnanian, the largest homebuilder in  New Jersey , has been
working to cut expenses and add more communities to take
advantage of rising demand for new homes. Relatively high debt
costs have made it more difficult for the company to be
consistently profitable, said Steve Blitz, senior homebuilder
analyst at ITG Investment Research Inc. in New York.  “The upturn has helped Hovnanian stay in business,” Blitz
said in an interview before earnings were reported. “What’s
important now is how can they accelerate the growth of their
business such that they can reduce their debt burden.”  Hovnanian fell in  New York  trading after reporting
operating margins that trailed some analysts’ estimates. The
homebuilding gross margin, excluding interest related to homes
sold, was 17 percent in the fiscal first quarter, compared with
18.3 percent in the previous three months and 16.5 percent a
year earlier.  Margins ‘Underperformed’  “Although the quarter was better on a year-over-year
basis, they underperformed a bit on many operating metrics,”
Megan McGrath, an analyst at MKM Partners LLC, said in an e-
mail. She had estimated margins of 18 percent, while Joel Locker, an analyst with FBN Securities Inc. in New York, said he
had expected margins to be 18.6 percent.  Hovnanian dropped 2.6 percent to $5.94 at the close of
trading. The stock has gained 148 percent in the past 12 months,
compared with a 97 percent increase for the 13-company Bloomberg
Industries homebuilders  index .  The decline in margins from the previous quarter was a
“temporary setback” related to “choppiness” and fixed
overheads spread out among lower deliveries, typical for the
first quarter, Chief Executive Officer  Ara Hovnanian  said today
on a conference call with analysts.  “We are optimistic that the recent increases in net
contracts we have reported will continue and could lead to our
best spring selling season in years,” he said.  Revenue Rises  Revenue increased to $358.2 million from $269.6 million a
year earlier. Net contracts climbed 25 percent to 1,344 homes,
the company said. The contract backlog, an indication of future
sales, rose 33 percent to 2,301 homes.  The company will return to profitability this fiscal year
and deliveries, revenue and gross margins will increase from
fiscal 2012 as long as “there are no adverse changes to current
market conditions,” Hovnanian said in today’s statement.  Demand for new houses has climbed as inventories of
existing homes have tightened. Purchases of new homes, logged
when contracts are signed, jumped in January to a 437,000 annual
rate, the fastest pace since July 2008, the Commerce Department
said on Feb. 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in Boston at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  