-- How Dollar Diplomacy Spelled Doom for the British Empire
-- B y   B e n n   S t e i l
-- 2013-03-06T15:50:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/how-dollar-diplomacy-spelled-doom-for-the-british-empire.html
“The British Empire seems to be
running off almost as fast as the American loan,”  Winston Churchill  thundered before the House of Commons on Dec. 20,
1946. “The haste is appalling.”  As if secretly synchronized, the pillars of empire and the
international acceptability of the pound sterling were crumbling
in tandem.  In late 1945, President Harry S. Truman’s administration
had grudgingly agreed to provide the bankrupt U.K. with a $3.75
billion loan -- but on the condition that the pound sterling be
made fully convertible to dollars at the rate of $4.03 to the
pound by July 15, 1947. This would allow Britain’s colonies and
dominions to sell sterling for dollars, satisfying a long-
standing demand of U.S. exporters and anti-imperialists while
depleting the U.K.’s meager official reserves.  Now dollars hung over every question of how the empire
would be dismantled. In February 1946, the great economist  John Maynard Keynes  had been full of foreboding about the British
government’s inertial desire to “cut a dash in the world
considerably above our means.” The country, he observed, was
“not prepared to accept peacefully and wisely the fact that her
position and her resources are not what they once were.”  First there was the  Middle East . Keynes noted that the
British were paying the cost of keeping troops in  Egypt  by
borrowing from ... Egypt. What would their answer be, he asked,
if the Egyptians were “no longer prepared to provide us with the
necessary funds?” The answer was simply to move them to
 Palestine . This, it was hoped, would buy time east of the Sinai
until something -- anything -- could be worked out with the
Arabs, Zionists and Americans. A pro-Arab approach, observed
British Labor MP Richard Crossman, would be “certain to
intensify anti-British and isolationist influences” in the U.S.,
“and might even endanger the loan” the U.K. so desperately
needed.  Narrow Margins  A June 1946 State Department public poll found that only 38
percent of Americans approved of any sort of British loan, while
48 percent opposed. The loan would, in the words of one
congressional opponent, “promote too damned much Socialism at
home and too much damned Imperialism abroad.”  Growing fear of the Soviet menace, however, turned the tide
of the debate in  Washington . Churchill’s famous “ Iron Curtain ”
speech on March 5, 1946, did much to rally skeptics, as did
Stalin’s denunciation of it. In the end, Congress approved the
loan only by the narrow margins of 46-34 in the Senate and 219-
155 in the House.  But it would not save the empire.  On July 22, the King David Hotel in  Jerusalem  was blown up
by the Irgun Jewish underground. Zionists in Palestine were now
in open revolt. Still, Churchill said hopefully, “Almost any
solution in which the  United States  will join us could be made
to work.”  The converse was much closer to the truth: Any solution to
Britain’s costly imperial quandaries that lacked U.S. support
was now hopeless. And Truman, unlike his predecessor  Franklin Roosevelt , had no overriding strategic purpose (such as
defeating the Nazis) for which he could profitably harness his
government to British interests. In the case of Palestine, quite
the opposite: He was edging toward recognition of a Jewish
state.  The summer of 1946 also witnessed the collapse of British
efforts to contain ethnic conflict in  India . Following Mohammad
Ali Jinnah’s announcement that his party would pursue an
independent  Pakistan , thousands died as communal violence spread
from Calcutta.  Keeping British forces in India would require $500 million
a year; the Middle East, another $300 million -- nearly a
quarter of the entire American loan.  Bad, Worse  Meanwhile, things were going from bad to worse in  Greece .
British forces, which had fought the Nazis there during World
War II, were now pinned down fighting Greek Communist guerrillas
in the north. Precious borrowed dollars were evaporating. “I am
beginning to doubt whether the Greek game is worth the candle,”
British Prime Minister Clement Attlee wrote bluntly to his
foreign minister, Ernest Bevin, on Dec. 1.  The U.K.’s far-flung military commitments might simply be
unsustainable without American support, which wasn’t likely to
be forthcoming. “There is a tendency in America to regard us as
an outpost,” Attlee wrote, “but an outpost that they will not
have to defend.”  The worst winter in 60 years strained the economic and
political viability of Britain’s overseas commitments to the
breaking point. Attlee signed an independence agreement with
Burmese General Aung San on Jan. 27, 1947. Then, over a dramatic
seven days in February, one pillar after another of British
imperial might came crashing down.  On Feb. 14th, Bevin announced that Britain’s Palestine
Mandate would be handed back to the  United Nations . On the 18th,
the cabinet agreed to withdraw the troops from Greece. And on
the 20th, Attlee announced in the House that Britain would leave
India.  “I know that if the British Empire fell,” Bevin had told
the Commons a year earlier, “it would mean that the standard of
living would fall considerably.” In 1946, it was still axiomatic
for many in Britain’s ruling circles that the empire was a
source of economic strength. Now it was clear that it had become
an intolerable dollar drain.  “There are only two powers left,” said future U.S.
Secretary of State Dean Acheson in February 1947, referring to
the U.S. and the  Soviet Union . “The British are finished.”  On March 12, Truman made a historic speech before a joint
session of Congress, laying out what came to be known as the
“ Truman Doctrine .” The U.S. would pledge economic and military
support to Greece and  Turkey  to prevent their coming under
Soviet domination. This was the first in a domino-chain of
geopolitical challenges the U.S. would face in the coming
decades in filling the vacuum left by the implosion of the
British Empire -- an implosion precipitated by American dollar
diplomacy.  (Benn Steil is the director of international economics at
the  Council on Foreign Relations  and the author of “The Battle
of  Bretton Woods : John  Maynard Keynes , Harry Dexter White, and
the Making of a New World Order. The opinions expressed are his
own.)  Read more from Echoes  online .  To contact the writer of this post: Benn Steil at
 BSteil@cfr.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 