-- Low Inflation Alone Can’t Deliver Promised Land
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2013-03-06T23:30:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/low-inflation-alone-can-t-deliver-promised-land.html
Cleaning up after the  housing bubble 
burst seven years ago turned out to be a lot harder than the
 Federal Reserve  imagined. And for a while, it seemed as if the
cost of risk-taking run amok was enough to put the fear of God
in central bankers.  Then the pressure to find a cure for the prolonged period
of slow growth and high unemployment superseded the effort to
understand the cause. The  role of asset prices  moved to the back
burner, even as the Fed made a concerted effort to reflate them.  That’s too bad. Unless the Fed acknowledges that a credit-
fueled asset bubble was responsible for the current malaise, it
is doomed to sow the seeds of the next one.  Why is this important? Because once a boom goes bust, the
effectiveness of monetary and fiscal policies is neutered by the
nature of the balance-sheet recession that follows, according to
Claudio Borio, director of research and statistics at the  Bank
for International Settlements  in  Basel ,  Switzerland . The
response is to deleverage, not to borrow and spend more, even in
the face of ultralow  interest rates .  The old postwar business cycle model was pretty straight-
forward by comparison:  1. An economy growing beyond its capacity starts to
generate inflationary pressures.  2. The central bank raises interest rates to curtail
inflation.  3. The economy goes into recession, inflation ebbs, the
central bank lowers interest rates, the economy bounces back.  Debt Peril  There was no big  debt overhang  to constrain the expansion,
only an excess of labor and capital. Once inflation succumbed,
the central bank was free to lower interest rates to stimulate
demand. Deep recessions were almost always followed by big
rebounds.  Not so with financial cycles, whose peaks are associated
with systemic banking crises and deeper, more sustained economic
contractions, according to Borio. Economists  Ken Rogoff  and
 Carmen Reinhart  documented eight centuries of such crises and
their aftermaths in their 2009 book, “This Time Is Different.”
Borio began looking at the  boom-bust cycle  in asset prices in
the early 1990s, using the banking crises in the Nordic
countries and  Japan , respectively, as models of how, and how
not, to respond.  In a recent BIS  working paper , “The Financial Cycle and
Macroeconomics: What Have We Learnt?,” Borio provides both an
answer to his own question -- not much -- and some guidance to
help policy makers do better next time.  He points out that the financial cycle is longer (12 years
on average) than the business cycle (one to eight years) largely
because governments, after a short crisis-management stage, fail
to deal directly with the impaired balance sheets of financial
institutions, businesses and households. Unless the issues of
over-indebtedness and asset quality are resolved -- even if it
requires substituting public money for private -- the result is
continued slow growth.  What happened to predictions that low inflation would
deliver us into the promised land of macroeconomic stability? It
turns out stable prices are a necessary, but not sufficient,
condition. Just look at the evidence.  During the last three decades, a period known as the Great
Moderation, economies have become more susceptible to prolonged
booms and busts. Borio attributes the change to a combination of
financial liberalization, globalization and a commitment to
 price stability , which he calls the “ paradox of credibility .”  Financial Cycle  The notion of a financial cycle, which fell out of favor in
the post-World War II era, seems to have reasserted itself.
Former Fed chief  Alan Greenspan  used to say that someone sitting
at a desk in  Washington  was ill-equipped to determine which
asset prices were rising for a reason and which represented
speculative excess. He was right. He also said monetary policy
could always  clean up after a bubble burst . That assessment
turned out to be dead wrong.  That’s why central bankers need a metric, or rule, to help
them assess when credit and asset prices have gotten so out of
whack as to threaten the financial system. Big increases in
credit relative to trend, big increases in a variety of asset
prices relative to trend, and sharp declines in savings ratios
should be a tipoff of “an underlying credit bubble that could
burst with dire effects,” said  William White , a former chief
economist at the BIS who, along with Borio, has been warning
about the dangers of the financial cycle for two decades.  Borio and White, now the chairman of the economic
development and review committee at the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development in Paris, presented  a paper 
at the Kansas City Fed’s Jackson Hole Economic Policy Symposium
in 2003 warning that  household debt  and  property prices  posed a
significant threat to world prosperity should the boom turn to
bust.  The reception was hardly enthusiastic, but the two
economists proved prescient.  Fed Chairman  Ben Bernanke  claims the central bank’s
“ multipronged approach ,” including “monitoring, supervision
and regulation, and communication,” will ensure financial
stability. Those tools were available in 2007, as well.  What’s more, none of the macroeconomic models central
bankers rely on “have any debt, credit, stocks, or anything
related to the financial system,” White said. “All of the
things that cause us trouble.”  Borio said it is possible to measure the increased risk of
financial crises “in real time with fairly good accuracy” by
tracking a gap between credit and gross domestic product (a
rough measure of leverage in an economy) and a real-property-
price gap. Together, the two metrics gave “concrete signs of
the build-up of systemic risk” over the past two decades, he
said in his paper.  After the global financial crisis in 2008-2009, the mindset
among policy makers shifted. For the first time, they seemed
open to examining the role of asset prices and developing some
kind of early warning system to alert them to danger.  No more. One by one, central banks around the globe have
joined hands and agreed to do “whatever it takes” to alleviate
slumps or deflation in their respective countries. A more
appropriate watchword might be “never again.”  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 