-- Toyota President Revamps Management in Battle With GM, VW
-- B y   M a   J i e ,   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a   a n d   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 2013-03-06T14:37:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/toyota-president-overhauls-management-to-battle-gm-volkswagen.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  President  Akio Toyoda  overhauled his top  management  for a second straight year,
strengthening his control over the world’s largest carmaker to
vie with  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Volkswagen AG. (VOW)   Three of Toyoda’s seven executive vice presidents will step
down, being replaced by just two people, the Japanese carmaker
said in a statement today. Three outsiders will be added to the
board, including Mark Hogan, a former GM group vice president,
to be the first foreigner on Toyota’s board since 2007.  The changes mean Toyoda, 56, will have replaced all but one
of his top lieutenants within a span of two years as he grooms
the next generation of leaders at  Japan ’s largest manufacturer,
founded by his grandfather in 1937. While the yen’s 7 percent
decline this year is boosting earnings, the company faces a
growing challenge from U.S. and European automakers in markets
from  China  to the U.S.  “It’s been gradual, steady process and this is just part
of the change that’s in his mind,” said Edwin Merner, president
of Atlantis Investment Research Corp. in  Tokyo , which manages
about $300 million in assets. “It’s good for Toyota.”  Toyota rose 2 percent to close at 4,830 yen in Tokyo
trading before the announcement. The stock has gained 21 percent
this year, helped by the drop in the yen, which is boosting the
value of earnings from overseas.  Outside Directors  Toyoda’s overhaul extends to the company’s 16-member board,
bringing in outside directors -- three of them -- for the first
time in Toyota’s history. Toyota also nominated four executives
to the board, meaning only two board members pre-dating Toyoda’s
ascension to president will be left after the changes.  Among the newcomers is Hogan, 61, whose ties to Toyoda
stretch back more than decade, when both worked together at the
now-defunct Toyota-GM joint venture plant in  California  called
New United Motor Manufacturing Inc., or Nummi.  After leaving GM, Hogan became president of Canadian auto-
parts maker  Magna International Inc. (MG)  in 2004 for three years. He
became an overseas adviser for Toyota in 2011 after the Japanese
company recalled more than 10 million vehicles worldwide in 2009
and 2010 for defects associated with unintended acceleration.  California Nostalgia  “I have lots of memories from that time,” Toyoda said in
reference to Hogan and his time at Nummi. “He knows our local
management.”  Ashvin Chotai, managing director of Intelligence Automotive
 Asia  in  London , said Hogan’s recruitment to the board is the
most interesting personnel change this year because Toyota is
signaling the company will become more global in its board
decision-making.  “Mark had extensive dealings with Japanese automakers and
will add additional different international perspective to the
board discussions,” Chotai said.  Aside from Hogan, Toyoda brought in Ikuo Uno, executive
adviser at Nippon Life Insurance Co., and Haruhiko Kato,
president of the Japan Securities Depository Center, as
outsiders entering Toyota’s board.  “The appointment of outside board members shows Toyota has
opened up more and become fully global,” outgoing Chairman
Fujio Cho, 76, told reporters today in Tokyo.  ‘Father of Prius’  Cho will be succeeded by current Vice Chairman Takeshi Uchiyamada, whom Toyoda referred to as the “father of the
Prius” for his past work in developing the world’s best-selling
gasoline-electric car. Uchiyamada, 66, who holds an applied
physics degree from Nagoya University, became vice chairman in
June 2012.  Satoshi Ozawa, 63, who in 2010 was the first lieutenant
that Toyoda promoted to executive vice president, will oversee
developed markets in  North America  and  Europe . Masamoto Maekawa,
63, who was promoted last year, will be the top executive in
charge of operations in Japan.  Mitsuhisa Kato, also promoted last year, will keep
overseeing research and development. Seiichi Sudo, elevated to
executive vice president this year, will oversee a newly created
unit center that will develop components ranging from engines to
transmissions.  Yasumori Ihara was named the executive vice president in
charge of emerging markets, including China. Ihara, 61, who was
promoted this year from senior managing officer, will face the
challenge of reversing the company’s declining sales in China,
the world’s largest automobile market.  China Slump  Though Toyota outsold all other carmakers worldwide last
year, it trailed behind GM, Volkswagen,  Nissan Motor (7201)  Co. and
even Hyundai Motor Co. in China.  Toyota’s struggles were compounded in September, after
protests flared because of a territorial dispute between Asia’s
two biggest economies, which also caused Chinese consumers to
shun cars made by Honda Motor Co. and Nissan. The wave of anti-
Japan sentiment led Toyota, which had previously counted on
China becoming its third million-unit market in 2012, to push
back that goal until after this year.  Demonstrations have since subsided, though Toyota sales in
the country have fallen this year, while GM has posted gains.  Among the six executives promoted this year to senior
managing officer -- the level right below executive vice
president in Toyota’s hierarchy --  Jim Lentz  will oversee North
American operations as the region’s chief executive officer.
Lentz was previously the U.S. sales chief.  Regional Responsibilities  “These changes will help us to achieve sustainable growth
and realize our global vision by giving more responsibility to
each region,” Toyoda said in a statement.  Atsushi Niimi, 65, who managed production and dealt with
supply-chain disruptions after the March 11 earthquake and
tsunami, is among the three outgoing executive vice presidents.
The other two are Shinichi Sasaki, 66, who was in charge of
quality control when Toyota recalled millions of vehicles from
2009, and Yukitoshi Funo, 66, who looked after Toyota’s Asian
business outside of Japan.  The overhaul of Toyoda’s top lieutenants is part of a
broader realignment of the company’s main automotive business,
which will be divided into four units to speed up decisions,
Toyota said. One division will focus on the Lexus luxury brand,
another for mature markets, Ihara will spearhead a third
division focusing on  emerging markets  and Sudo will oversee the
fourth unit, which will deal with engines and transmissions.  Clarifying Roles  Toyoda also said the reshuffles are meant to clarify
responsibilities. For example, Ozawa and Niimi’s
responsibilities overlapped in markets such as Europe because of
the previous organizational structure.  “After the reshuffle, Akio’s burden should be reduced and
he should be able to have more time to concentrate on the larger
picture of Toyota’s operations,” said Takeshi Miyao, an analyst
for Carnorama Japan in Tokyo. “Toyota’s new management is
impressive in the sense that job roles for each executives are
clearly defined.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ma Jie in Tokyo at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  