-- Palm’s Bear Market Seen Deepening by Mistry as Supply Gains
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m   a n d   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2013-03-06T09:32:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/palm-s-bear-market-seen-deepening-by-mistry-as-supply-expands.html
A  bear market  in palm is poised to
deepen in 2013 as the most-used cooking oil slumps to less than
2,000 ringgit ($644) a metric ton on increased global supplies
of vegetable oils, according to Dorab Mistry.  Futures on the Bursa Malaysia Derivatives will trade from
2,300 ringgit to 2,500 ringgit through April as stockpiles drop,
the director at Godrej International Ltd. told a conference in
Kuala Lumpur today. From mid-April, prices will tumble to 2,200
ringgit or less as soybean supplies expand, then slump below
2,000 ringgit in about July or August as palm harvests start to
climb, Mistry said. The most-active price traded unchanged at
2,400 ringgit a ton at 5:29 p.m. in  Kuala Lumpur .  Mistry’s outlook raises the prospect that the oil will fall
for three years, helping to reduce global food costs. Palm
declined 23 percent last year on record supplies and stockpiles.
U.S. Department of Agriculture Chief Economist Joe Glauber
forecasts soybeans, which can be crushed to yield an alternative,
will slump as growers plant a record crop after last year’s
weather-driven disruptions lifted prices to an all-time high.  “July, August will be a critical period for the market,”
Mistry told the annual Palm and Lauric Oils Conference &
Exhibition. Prices of crude  palm oil , known as CPO, “may
finally break down, just as the low cycle is ending and the
market looks to rapidly expanding CPO production,” he said.  Palm lost 1.6 percent this year to yesterday’s close as
stockpiles in  Malaysia , the largest producer after  Indonesia ,
held near the highest ever. A third year of losses would be the
worst run since at least 1996. Prices of the commodity used in
foods and fuels haven’t traded below 2,000 ringgit since 2009.  Mr. Titanic  Mistry, who earned the nickname Mr. Titanic after he
correctly compared vegetable oil prices to the ill-fated liner
in 1998, told Bloomberg last month that the outlook for palm is
bearish. At last year’s conference, Mistry had said prices would
rally to 4,000 ringgit by June. That forecast proved too
optimistic as biofuel demand fell, Mistry told delegates today.  “As stocks rise in the second half, it’s bound to be
bearish,” said Imran Afzal, director of marketing at Nimir
Industrial Chemicals Ltd., an oleochemicals company in Lahore,
 Pakistan , which imports about 20,000 tons of refined palm olein
a year. While Mistry’s forecast was wrong last year, “it seems
like a bearish year,” said Afzal, who attended the conference.  Malaysia may  produce  19.5 million tons to 19.7 million tons
this year, Mistry said. That’s more than the 18.9 million tons
seen by the nation’s palm board. Indonesian output may top 30.5
million tons this year from 28 million tons in 2012, he said.
Stockpiles in Indonesia are close to 5 million tons, he said.  ‘Harvest Rounds’  “As prices decline below 2,000 ringgit, plantations will
begin to reduce fertilizer usage and  harvest rounds  will get
longer,” he said. Prices wouldn’t drop to less than 1,800
ringgit unless Brent crude declines to $80 per barrel, he said.  Mistry’s price forecast contrasts with the outlook from
Standard Chartered Plc, which said in a Feb. 5 report that palm
may bottom in the second quarter, then rally to 2,750 ringgit in
the third quarter and 2,900 ringgit in the final three months.
Faster economic growth in China and  India , the largest buyers,
will boost demand, according to analyst Abah Ofon.  Derom Bangun, chairman of the palm board in Indonesia, said
in a Feb. 28 interview that he’s bullish about palm, forecasting
that inventories in Indonesia may drop as a significant increase
in demand outstrips even record supplies. Reserves at the end of
last year were 2.5 million tons, Bangun said.  U.S. Drought  Global  food costs  tracked by the Rome-based Food &
Agriculture Organization fell 0.5 percent last year even as
soybeans and corn rallied to records in  Chicago  as drought in
the U.S. hurt supplies. The USDA’s Glauber said last month that
soy and corn will fall as farmers ramp up acreage.  This year is going to be “the year of the strong supply
response,” Mistry said. Palm prices may come under pressure in
mid-April as soy supplies from Brazil and Argentina increase and
there’s greater clarity on U.S. farmers’ planting plans, he said.
A USDA report on U.S. crop estimates in August, just as palm
supply typically picks up, may prove to be a watershed, he said.  U.S. farmers will boost soybean planting this year, taking
production to an all-time high of 3.4 billion bushels and
doubling the country’s inventories by Aug. 31, 2014 to 250
million bushels, the USDA said on Feb. 22. Soybeans, which
peaked at $17.89 a bushel last September, traded at $14.655.  The profitability of palm plantations in the past five
years led to more acreage in  Thailand , Central America,  Colombia 
and parts of  Africa , Mistry said. Together these regions will
deliver an extra 700,000 tons this year, contributing to global
production growth of 3.9 million tons in 2013, he said. World
demand may also expand 3.9 million tons, he said.  “Inefficient plantations produce CPO at an all-in cost of
about 1,500 ringgit,” Mistry said. “So the good news is that
in this bear market, the price of CPO will guarantee even
inefficient plantations a reasonable profit. At no stage do I
expect plantations to suffer losses.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net ;
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  