-- Paramount Hotels and Damac to Build $1 Billion Dubai Towers
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2013-03-06T11:16:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/paramount-hotels-and-damac-to-build-1-billion-property-in-dubai.html
Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s Paramount Pictures is
lending its name to four Hollywood-themed towers in Dubai that
will comprise a hotel, apartments and shops and cost about $1
billion to build.  Damac Properties Co., a developer based in Dubai, will
oversee and finance the construction of the properties in the
Burj Khalifa area, Damac Managing Director Ziad El Chaar said in
a telephone interview today. Paramount Hotels & Resorts will
help design the buildings and manage them after they’re
completed at the end of 2015.  “We believe valuations in the market will continue to
increase, especially in branded real estate,” Chaar said.
“Anything carries a risk, but we are confident in our belief in
our brand, in the Paramount brand and the Burj Khalifa area.”  Hotels in Dubai have among the highest revenue per
available room in the world, even as supply continues to come
into the market, according to Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. The
Persian Gulf sheikhdom with the world’s biggest shopping mall
and tallest building, the Burj Khalifa tower, attracted 9.3
million tourists in 2011.  Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide
Inc. (HOT)  said yesterday it would move its headquarters to Dubai from
 Stamford ,  Connecticut , for a month until April 5.  Damac will finance the project with cash, proceeds from the
sale of the units and possibly bank loans once the project is
further under way, Chaar said. Damac will seek to sell the
apartments for a price similar to the average in the Burj
Khalifa, currently about 2,750 dirhams ($749) per square meter,
he said.  Luxury Hotels  Paramount Hotels and Resorts, created by a group of
investors in Dubai last year, has a license from Paramount
Pictures to build a chain of branded hotels and homes. In May,
the company said it plans to open as many as 50 Hollywood- and
California-themed luxury hotels worldwide.  The four towers in Dubai, which will be called Damac
Towers, will have a screening room, gyms, swimming pools and
stores selling Paramount merchandise, according to a statement
from Damac. They will be more than 250 meters (820 feet) tall,
according to the statement. Paramount Hotels will help design
digital signs, lighting and  customer service .  Paramount Pictures , a unit of Viacom, was the studio
responsible for such film classics as “The Godfather,”
“Breakfast at Tiffany’s” and “Titanic,” according to the
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  