-- PDVSA Has Long Way to Come Back After Chaves: Hofmeister
-- B y   C a r l o s   C a m i n a d a
-- 2013-03-06T13:51:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/pdvsa-has-long-way-to-come-back-after-chaves-hofmeister.html
John Hofmeister, former president of
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s U.S. unit from 2005 to 2008 and founder
of Houston-based Citizens for Affordable Energy, comments on the
outlook for state-owned oil producer  Petroleos de Venezuela SA ,
known as PDVSA, after the death of  Hugo Chavez  in an interview
with Alix Steel, Indira Lakshmanan and  Tom Keene  on Bloomberg
Television’s “Surveillance.” He also spoke about  TransCanada
Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL pipeline.  On PDVSA:
“It really is disrespected today because of corruption,
cronyism, incompetence and it’s just doing a terrible job for
the people of Venezuela.”
“They’ve got a long way to come back. Let’s hope they can come
back, because otherwise it’s gonna get worse before it gets
better.”  On investment in Venzuela’s oil after Chavez:
“Companies like” Exxon Mobil Corp. and  ConocoPhillips (COP)  “pulled
out. Other companies stayed on the basis that Chavez can’t live
forever and it’s better to stick around rather than try to
reenter. It wouldn’t surprise me that, if the environment
changes and if the rule of law comes back, you could see
companies wanting to reinvest in  Venezuela  on the basis that
this rich source of crude is valuable.”  On Venezuela’s oil reserves and production:
“The reserve amount is hugely important not only to the U.S.
but to the world as a whole. The production in Venezuela has
gone downhill essentially throughout the Chavez era.”  On crude from Venezuela vs. crude from Canada and other nations:
“You get heavy crude from Mexico and you get heavy crude from
elsewhere. So it’s not simply Venezuela that produces heavy
crude. But let’s be clear, we will be using heavy crude from
wherever it comes from and hopefully some of it comes from
Venezuela if they can turn their act around.” “It’s gonna take
time, but in terms of bringing in Canadian crude some of the
refineries are already prepared.” “Some of the companies along
the  Gulf coast  already made preparations for Canadian crude,
anticipating a pipeline. It’s been delayed by politicians but it
deserves to be built because it’s an important source of crude
oil.  On TransCanada Corp.’s Keystone XL pipeline:
‘‘From an environmental standpoint, the Canadian  tar sands  are
going through an environmental revolution. The old mining
technology is giving way to steam-assisted production, where you
don’t have the big pits anymore. You clean up the dirty lakes of
oil remnants. Rail is a crutch when you’re really struggling to
get oil into the market but a pipeline is so much more
efficient, so much more predictable. Fortunately there have been
no rail crashes, but there could be, so I think a pipeline is
long-term safer than rail as well.”  PDVSA spokeswoman Rosarys Ysturiz didn’t immediately return
phone calls and e-mails seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carlos Caminada in  Sao Paulo  at 
 ccaminada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  