-- Penn State Sues Insurer Over Sandusky-Related Claims
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-03-06T18:19:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/penn-state-sues-insurer-over-sandusky-related-claims.html
Pennsylvania  State University sued
Pennsylvania Manufacturers’ Association Insurance Co. for
denying coverage of claims and litigation arising from the Jerry Sandusky child sex-abuse scandal.  The insurer refused to cover claims by 30 men alleging
improper conduct or abuse at the hands of Sandusky, a former
assistant football coach at the university, the school said in a
complaint filed yesterday in state court in Bellefonte,
Pennsylvania. PMA’s refusal to honor its policy obligations is
“frivolous and unfounded,” the school said.  “By refusing to honor its obligations to provide full
coverage to  Penn State , PMA has essentially abandoned a decades-
long client,” David La Torre, a spokesman for the university,
said in an e-mailed statement. “Penn State will aggressively
pursue the coverage for which it has paid over $23 million since
1983 and to which it is entitled.”  Penn State faces at least six lawsuits over Sandusky’s
abuse. Sandusky, 69, a former defensive coach, was found guilty
in June by a jury of abusing 10 boys over a 15-year period and
convicted on 45 counts. He was sentenced to at least 30 years in
prison. The university said it plans to compensate victims with
money from insurance policies and funds set aside from interest
on internal loans.  Awaiting Response  Kenneth Feinberg , an attorney with Feinberg Rozen LLP hired
to help facilitate negotiations, said last month that mediators
were awaiting a response from the school on settlement offers
that had been delivered for some claimants.  The university’s insurance policies will cover the defense
of claims against the school, La Torre said in the statement. He
declined to comment on the status of settlement negotiations.  “Student tuition, taxpayer funds or donations will not be
used,” La Torre said in the e-mail.  Diane Nafranowicz, a spokeswoman for Blue Bell,
Pennsylvania-based PMA, declined to comment on the complaint.  Penn State has maintained insurance policies with PMA since
the 1950s, according to the complaint. Each of the policies
contains a $2 million-per-occurrence limit and a $3 million
aggregate limit, except for one that sets a $2.5 million limit
for both and another that sets a $2 million limit, according to
the complaint.  The case is  Pennsylvania State University  v. Pennsylvania
Manufacturers’ Association Insurance Co., 2013-0819, Court of
Common Pleas of Centre County, Pennsylvania (Bellefonte).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  