-- Petrobras Jumps Most in Four Years on Price Increase: Rio Mover
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2013-03-06T21:02:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/petrobras-jumps-most-since-may-on-surprise-diesel-increase.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , the state-
controlled company that is required to supply Brazil’s fuel
needs, soared the most in more than four years after the
government unexpectedly approved a 5 percent increase in diesel
prices.  The producer based in  Rio de Janeiro  rose 9 percent to
18.05 reais at the close in  Sao Paulo , the biggest increase
since Dec. 10, 2008. It posted the biggest gain of the 10  oil
companies  with more than $100 billion in market value.  “No one was expecting another price increase this year
given comments made by Brazilian authorities concerned with
inflation,” Marcus Sequeira, an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG,
said in a note to clients. “The announcement brings hope that
other increases could be granted throughout the year.”  The price increase will help reduce losses from selling
imported diesel at a discount as part of a government policy to
curb inflation. Fuel imports reduced Petrobras’s 2012 profit to
the lowest since 2004. Diesel consumption grew 7 percent last
year and exceeded Petrobras’s capacity to refine the fuel.
Consumption will grow at a similar pace in 2013, Florival
Carvalho, a director at  Brazil ’s oil regulator, said yesterday.  The increase, the second in five weeks and effective
immediately, reduced the discount to international prices to the
lowest in a year at 6 percent, Bank of America analyst Frank McGann said in a note to clients. The adjustment will
potentially add $2 billion in revenue this year, he said.  Petrobras’s voting shares rose 15 percent, the most in
almost 14 years, since March 10, 1999. Voting shares are down 16
percent this year after the company cut voting stock dividends,
compared with a 7.5 percent decline in non-voting shares.  “We see this increase as a victory for Petrobras
management, which continues to fight for a more rational
approach to diesel and gasoline pricing in the country,”  Itau
Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB4)  analysts Paula Kovarsky and Diego Mendes
said in a research report yesterday after the change was
announced.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  