-- Pfizer, AstraZeneca, LVMH, Ikos: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-03-06T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/pfizer-astrazeneca-lvmh-ikos-intellectual-property.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  said it filed patent-
infringement lawsuits yesterday against generic-drug makers
including  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  to prevent them
from selling a low-cost version of the painkiller Celebrex until
December 2015.  Pfizer won a ruling in 2008 preventing Teva from entering
the market until May 2014. In that case, an appeals court
invalidated a patent that expires in December 2015. Pfizer said
yesterday that it had persuaded the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office to reissue that patent with changes.      Celebrex , also known by its active ingredient
celecoxib, generated $1.75 billion in U.S. sales last year, the
company said Jan. 29. Each day that Pfizer can delay generic
competition means about $5 million in revenue for the New York-
based company.  The reissued patent -- RE44084 -- covers methods of
treating osteoarthritis with celecoxib. In addition to Petach
Tikva, Israel-based Teva, the world’s largest maker of generic
drugs, Pfizer said it sued Mylan Inc.,  Actavis Inc. (ACT) ,  Lupin Ltd. (LPC) 
and Apotex Inc. in federal court in Virginia.  “Continued development of new medicines that enhance
patient lives is supported by protecting intellectual property
and innovation,” Pfizer General Counsel Amy Schulman said in a
statement.  AstraZeneca Says Australian Court Invalidated Crestor Patents  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) , maker of the Nexium ulcer drug and the
Xylocaine topical anesthetic, said an Australian court found
three patents protecting its  Crestor  anti-cholesterol drug to be
invalid.  In a March 5  statement , the London-based pharmaceutical
company said the Federal Court of Australia invalidated one
patent covering Crestor’s formulation and two others related to
the use of the compound in the treatment of high blood
cholesterol.  Annual sales of the drug in Australia have reached about
A$350 million ($359 million), according to the statement.
AstraZeneca said it’s evaluating options, including filing an
appeal. The Australian patents were challenged by Apotex Pty
Ltd., Watson Pharma Pty Ltd. and Ascent Pharma Pty Ltd.  In December, a federal appeals court in the U.S. issued a
ruling blocking generic versions of the drug from coming onto
the U.S. market until July 2016. The drug generated $2.3 billion
in sales in the U.S. in the first nine months of 2012, and
accounts for 22 percent of the company’s revenue.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Louis Vuitton Tells Chinese Hairdresser His Furniture Infringes  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , the French luxury-
brand company, accused the owner of a Hong Kong-area beauty
salon of trademark infringement for using a covering on its
chairs that the company says infringes its mark, the South China
Morning Post  reported.   The salon owner said the luxury-goods company is demanding
a published apology and money damages, according to the
newspaper.  The furniture came from Shenzhen, in China’s Guangdong
Province, and the salon owner said he was unaware the pattern
belonged to Louis Vuitton, the newspaper reported.  He told the newspaper he couldn’t afford to pay what Louis
Vuitton is seeking, even after the luxury-goods company cut its
damages request in half, and that he may have to close.  Philips Wins Challenge to Spectrum’s ‘Steam Glide’ Trademark  Royal Philips Electronics NV (PHIA)  successfully challenged a U.K.
trademark belonging to  Spectrum Brands Holdings Inc. (SPB) ’s Russell
Hobbs Ltd. unit.  The European Union’s Court of Justice  affirmed  a lower-
court holding that the “Steam Glide” trademark registered by
Salton Europe in 2008 for use with irons was too generic to be
afforded protection.  Salton changed its name in 2009 to Russell Hobbs, which
merged with Spectrum Brands Holdings Inc. of Madison, Wisconsin,
in 2010.  Russell Hobbs argued that the combination of “steam” and
“glide” acts to “stimulate the imagination to create a mental
image of suspension and hovering, which does not in fact
exist.”  The court disagreed, saying “the smooth movement of an
iron across clothes, which results from the steam, corresponds
to what the consumer may expect from a product of that type, the
description of that movement by the word in question thus does
not ‘conjure up’ an image of hovering but is clearly descriptive
of a very real characteristic of the goods in issue.”  The court said there was nothing unusual about combining
the two English words, and “there is no perceptible difference
between the expression ‘steam glide’ and the mere sum of the
words of which it is composed.”  Spectrum’s appeal was dismissed and the court said the
Madison-based company had to pay its own costs, the costs of the
European trademark authority and Philips.  The case is Spectrum Brands (UK) Ltd. v. Office for the
Harmonization of the Inner Market (Trademarks and Designs), T‑
544/11, General Court, European Court of Justice.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Ikos Co-Founder Coward Sues Hedge Fund Over Software Copyright  Martin Coward, the co-founder of Ikos Asset Management
Ltd., sued his estranged wife’s businesses in a U.K. court over
ownership of copyrights to software that runs the hedge fund’s
trading platform.  Coward was the “architect” of the “bedrock of the family
business,” he created with Elena Ambrosiadou, his lawyers said
at the start of a three-week trial in London yesterday.  “Practically all of the financial markets expertise at
Ikos resided in Coward,” said Michael Bloch, his lawyer.  Ikos, a hedge fund with $1.36 billion in assets under
management that uses computer algorithms to spot profitable
futures markets trades, has been embroiled in litigation
involving Coward and other former employees around the globe.
The estranged couple, who started divorce proceedings in Greece
in 2009, have filed more than 40 lawsuits against each other in
at least four countries.  Ambrosiadou, who was dropped as a defendant in the suit and
is expected to testify this week, has denied Coward’s version of
events -- dating back to how the company was formed in 1995. The
couple’s “relationship has turned toxic,” Bloch told the
court.  Coward, who left Ikos in 2009, paid 50,000 pounds ($75,800)
in damages and apologized to Ambrosiadou in January for
providing divorce papers containing personal information to
journalists.  Ambrosiadou “has tried to get Coward sent to prison,” for
allegedly copying software, put tracking devices on his car and
wire-tapped their family home, Bloch said.  Coward, who faces criminal charges in Monaco and Cyprus,
was “caught red-handed stealing” the software, lawyers for
Ikos said in documents filed at the London court.  Ikos counter-sued Coward for copyright infringement and
breach of confidence for downloading the software, described as
the fund’s “crown jewels, on which the entire business is
based,” according to the filings.  “Electronic-theft laws need to be introduced in U.K. and
Europe,” Ambrosiadou said in response to an e-mail requesting
comment.  The case is Coward v Phaestos Limited, U.K. High Court of
Justice, Chancery Division, case no. HC10C02788  EU to Quiz Germany Over Draft Rules for Google’s News Clips  Germany will be questioned by European Union regulators
over a draft law that limits what  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and other so-
called aggregators can use to bundle news clips on the Internet.  EU regulators analyzed the bill passed by German
parliamentarians last week and will seek further information
from the country’s government, Carlo Corazza, a spokesman for
the European Commission, said in an e-mail. The Brussels-based
authority received complaints over the draft law on ancillary
copyright, he said.  Google and others may continue to show short news items on
their websites without being required to pay, German lawmakers
decided in last week’s parliamentary vote. German publishers
including  Axel Springer AG (SPR)  and Bertelsmann SE, which face
falling revenue from newspapers and magazines, have argued that
search engines and aggregators like Google News should pay for
displaying short excerpts from news stories.  Publishers would retain the exclusive right of use for any
content exceeding “single words or very small text excerpts,”
under the draft agreed last week. The bill by Germany’s Justice
Ministry gives publishers one year during which they have the
sole rights to commercially use their journalistic content. The
draft needs to be approved by Germany’s upper house before it
can enter into force.  Al Verney, a spokesman for Google in Brussels, declined to
comment. Mountain View, California-based Google said last week
in response to the German vote that “ancillary copyright in its
most damaging form has been stopped” and the best outcome for
Germany would be no new legislation that may threaten
innovation.  Google, which doesn’t display ads on its news aggregator
pages in Europe, argued that its so-called snippets are actually
helping publishers by driving traffic to their sites.  Corazza referred to EU rules that seek to cut technical
standards set by one country which may hamper trade across the
27-nation bloc. He didn’t say who complained to the EU
regulator.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  