-- Philippine Stocks to Overtake Economy This Year: Southeast Asia
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2013-03-07T09:06:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/philippine-stocks-to-overtake-economy-this-year-southeast-asia.html
The second-biggest Philippine fund
manager said the value of the  stock market  will exceed the size
of the economy this year for the first time as low  interest
rates  and faster economic growth spur a record equity rally.  The Philippine Stock Exchange Index may gain 29 percent
this year to 7,500, boosting the value of the entire market,
while gross domestic product in current prices may expand 9
percent, Paul Joseph Garcia, a fund manager at Manila-based BPI
Asset Management Inc., said in a March 5 interview. His
prediction means the economy would reach about $280 billion.  A 33 percent surge by the benchmark index last year drove
the stock market’s  value  to $223 billion on Dec. 31, compared
with the nation’s 2012 GDP of $257 billion, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Expectations the nation will win an investment-
grade sovereign rating helped drive the value of Philippine
stocks to a record $247 billion on Feb. 8.  “It’s just a matter of time for the market cap to overtake
GDP given the level of interest from local and overseas
investors,” said Garcia, who helps manage $19 billion at BPI
Asset. “The market’s high multiple is a signal investors have
high confidence that the economy will be better in the next 12
to 24 months.”  The Philippine  stock index  jumped 1.8 percent yesterday to
a record 6,835.21. It fell 1.6 percent at the 3:30 p.m. close in
Manila, the sharpest loss in eight months. The gauge has climbed
294 percent since October 2008 through March 5, making it the
world’s biggest equity  bull market . That’s at least 134
percentage points more than every other bull market in emerging
and developed nations, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Boosting Spending  Philippine GDP is forecast to grow at as much as 7 percent
in real terms this year as President  Benigno Aquino  plans to
boost spending to a record and seek more than $17 billion of
infrastructure investments, Economic Planning Secretary Arsenio Balisacan said on Jan. 31. The economy grew 6.6 percent in 2012,
after a 3.9 percent expansion in 2011.  The nation’s credit rating, at speculative grade, will
probably be upgraded in the first half, central bank Governor
Amando Tetangco said in a Bloomberg Television interview on Jan.
25.  Standard & Poor’s  raised its outlook to positive from stable
on Dec. 20, citing the stability of Aquino’s administration and
economic growth.  Foreign investors purchased a net $812 million of shares in
 Asia ’s 12th-biggest stock market this year, 45 percent more than
in the same period a year ago, according to Philippine Stock
Exchange data compiled by Bloomberg. The nation of about 100
million people recorded $2.5 billion of inflows last year, the
most since Bloomberg began tracking the data in 2000.  Elevated Prices  Marvin Fausto, the chief investment officer at BDO Unibank
Inc., the nation’s biggest  fund manager , says “elevated” share
prices are a hurdle to the nation’s equity-market capitalization
surpassing GDP this year.  “Maybe it will happen next year,” Fausto, who helps
manage about $20 billion, said in an interview at an investor
conference in the southern city of Samal on March 2. “I don’t
expect the market cap to grow by another 10 percent from here.
Share prices are approaching overvaluation. Earnings have to
catch up with share prices and valuations to become
reasonable.”  Surging demand for equities drove the Philippine Stock
Exchange Index’s  valuation  last month to 21.7 times reported
earnings, the highest level since December 2003 and a premium to
the 15.2 multiple 10-year average, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The Philippine gauge now trades for 21.1 times reported
earnings.  ‘Buying Window’  Earnings per share  at companies in the  Philippine Stock
Exchange Index (PCOMP)  are forecast to grow 12.3 percent in 2013, an
acceleration from last year’s 10 percent expansion, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  BPI Asset’s Garcia said he’s holding more consumer,
infrastructure developer and bank shares than are represented on
benchmark indexes. He’s underweight telecommunications, energy
and utilities that are expected to give relatively lower returns
in an expanding economy.  “We don’t think the market is overvalued yet at these
levels,” Garcia said. “Any pullback in the market we will take
it as a buying window at this point. Less cyclical sectors will
lag the market rally and those that will outperform are those
with strong links to the economy and beneficiaries of all-time
low interest rates.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Sayson in  Manila  at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  