-- Philippine Peso Forwards Appreciate on U.S. Stock Gains, China
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2013-03-06T08:34:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/philippine-peso-rises-a-second-day-on-u-s-stock-gains-china.html
Philippine peso forwards snapped a
three-day drop after the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  climbed to
a record and China pledged to maintain its economic growth
target, stoking investor appetite for emerging-market assets.  Asian stocks and currencies rallied after the Dow closed
0.9 percent higher at 14,253.77 in New York as the U.S.
Institute for Supply Management reported its non-manufacturing
index increased to 56 last month, the highest level since
February 2012. Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  set a goal for 7.5
percent expansion this year, unchanged from 2012, during the
National People’s Congress in Beijing yesterday.  “You’ll probably see more funds coming into the likes of
riskier currencies” like those in Asia, said  Vishnu Varathan ,
an economist at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in Singapore.
Investors are “trying to take a positive spin from what’s going
on in the National People’s Congress,” he said.  Three-month non-deliverable forwards rose 0.1 percent to
40.68 per dollar as of 4:23 p.m. in  Manila , data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The contract is at a 0.05 percent premium to the
spot rate, which was little changed at 40.700 in Manila,
according to prices from Tullett Prebon Plc.  Implied volatility, a measure of expected moves in the
 exchange rate  used to price options, increased five basis
points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 3.90 percent.  ‘Well Supported’  Philippine central bank Governor Amando Tetangco said
yesterday inflation remains manageable after consumer-price
gains in February exceeded estimates. Prices rose 3.4 percent
last month from a year earlier, after a 3 percent advance in
January, official data showed. The median estimate of economists
in a Bloomberg survey was 3.3 percent.  Policy makers have held benchmark borrowing costs at a
record-low of 3.5 percent since last cutting them in October,
while lowering  interest rates  on special-deposit accounts to
curb speculation in the peso. The currency has appreciated 5.6
percent in the past year, the best performance among 25
emerging-market exchange rates tracked by Bloomberg.  “The Philippine economy is fairly well supported and
there’s better risk appetite given that U.S. equities were up,”
said Mizuho’s Varathan.  Government bonds  rose. The yield on the 6.125 percent notes
due October 2037 declined seven basis points to 4.71 percent,
according to prices from Tradition Financial Services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  