-- Plosser Says Fed Should Taper QE as Costs Exceed Benefits
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2013-03-06T16:18:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/plosser-says-fed-should-taper-qe-as-costs-outweigh-benefits.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia
President  Charles Plosser  said the central bank should slow the
pace of its bond purchases because the potential costs from more
stimulus outweigh the benefits.  “We should begin to taper our asset purchases with an aim
of ending them before year-end,” Plosser said today in a speech
in Lancaster,  Pennsylvania . “With interest rates already
extremely low and the Fed’s  balance sheet  large and growing,
monetary policy is posing risks to the economy in terms of
financial stability, market functioning and price stability.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee  is debating how long it
should continue $85 billion in monthly purchases of Treasuries
and mortgage bonds aimed at boosting economic growth and
reducing  7.9 percent  unemployment. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and
Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  in speeches this month affirmed a
commitment to record stimulus pushing the central bank’s balance
sheet beyond $3 trillion.  Even with the easing, the economy expanded just 0.1 percent
in the fourth quarter amid the biggest drop in  defense spending 
since the closing years of the  Vietnam War .  “Beneath the very weak headline number, there were some
signs of improvement in consumption, business investments and
residential investments,” Plosser said. “Thus, there is reason
to be somewhat optimistic for the coming quarters.”  Plosser said to reporters after the speech that it’s too
soon to know whether the Fed can withdraw easing by holding
assets until maturity instead of selling them.  ‘Never Selling’  “I don’t know how we can commit to never selling,”
Plosser said. “We don’t know the answer to that, so it’s hard
to pre-commit, to say we can’t sell assets even in the face of
rising inflation.”  Bernanke said in congressional testimony on Feb. 26 that
the central bank may be able to exit from its record easing by
holding the assets it owns until they mature. “We could exit
without ever selling by letting it run off and we could tighten
policy by raising interest rates we pay on reserves,” he said
in testimony to the Senate Banking Committee in  Washington .  Plosser told reporters that he would like the monthly
purchases “to be tapered fast enough so that we are done before
the end of this year.”  The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  rose to a record for a
second day after a report from the ADP Research Institute showed
U.S. employers added 198,000 jobs last month, exceeding the
median economist forecast for 170,000. The index reached
14,281.22 at 10:58 a.m. in New York, while the yield on the
benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose 0.02 percentage point to
1.92 percent.  Accelerating Growth  In his speech, the Philadelphia Fed chief predicted the
economy will grow about 3 percent this year and next. Economists
expect the  U.S. economy  to expand at a 1.8 percent rate this
year and accelerate to 2.7 percent next year, according to the
median of 77 forecasts in a Bloomberg survey.  Plosser, who doesn’t hold a vote this year on the policy-
setting FOMC, said accommodation may be fueling excessive risk-
taking and that financial instability may “arise from the
higher levels of  interest-rate  risk” taken by investors. The
Fed’s expanding role in the mortgage-bond market may also
“distort the functioning” of the market over time, he told the
Economic Development Company of Lancaster County.  “Our current, increasingly accommodative monetary policy
has the potential to complicate the Fed’s exit from the
nontraditional policies and undermine its ability to achieve
long-run  price stability ,” Plosser said. While the Fed has the
tools to withdraw stimulus in a high-reserves environment,
“there remains some uncertainty about their effectiveness,
since we do not have historical experience.”  Take Losses  The Fed may take losses on its holdings when interest rates
rise, which would not “go unnoticed” and may pose a threat to
the central bank’s independence should lawmakers seek to
interfere with monetary policy as a result, he said.  Plosser said Feb. 13 he expects the  unemployment rate  to
decline close to 7 percent by the end of the year, warranting a
reduction in the Fed’s monthly bond purchases. The jobless rate
rose to  7.9 percent  in January. It has fluctuated between that
level and 7.8 percent since September.  “My forecast of 3 percent growth should allow for
continued improvements in labor market conditions, including a
gradual decline in the unemployment rate, similar to the
improvements we have seen over the past two years,” Plosser
said. He predicted inflation will be near the Fed’s 2 percent
goal during the medium to longer term.  The central bank in December linked the benchmark interest
rate to economic indicators for the first time, pledging to hold
rates near zero as long as projected inflation doesn’t exceed
2.5 percent and unemployment exceeds 6.5 percent.  Plosser, 64, became president of the Philadelphia Fed in
August 2006. He was previously dean of the business school at
the University of Rochester in  New York  state. The Philadelphia
Fed will next have a vote on policy decisions in 2014.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Lancaster, Pennsylvania at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  