-- Poland Cuts Rates as Worst GDP Slowdown in 12 Years Looms
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2013-03-06T16:09:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/poland-cuts-rates-as-worst-gdp-slowdown-in-12-years-looms.html
Poland ’s central bank cut its main
 interest rate  by more than economists estimated to a record low
as the worst economic slowdown in 12 years looms after consumer
spending plunged amid  Europe ’s debt crisis.  The Narodowy Bank Polski lowered the benchmark seven-day
 reference rate  by 50 basis points to 3.25 percent today. None of
the 38 economists surveyed by Bloomberg predicted the move, with
the median forecast a quarter-point cut.  The European Union’s largest eastern economy will expand
1.2 percent this year, the weakest pace since 2001, as domestic
demand falters and a euro-area recession hampers exports, the EU
forecasts. The NBP is taking a “wait-and-see”-approach after
five rate reductions since November while not ruling out further
easing, Governor  Marek Belka  said at a news conference in Warsaw
today.  The reduction should be seen “as a full stop placed after
a certain series of rate cuts” and the NBP prefers “to look at
our stand as wait-and-see and one should take that literally,”
Belka said. While further easing isn’t ruled out in the coming
months, first “we’d need inflation and GDP data to differ
significantly from what we see in the projection.”  The zloty pared earlier losses after Belka’s comments,
weakening 0.4 percent against the euro to trade at 4.1467 at
4:31 p.m. in Warsaw. The yield on the government’s two-year bond
fell 10 basis points to 3.46 percent.  ‘Justified’ Aggression  “Considering the weakness of domestic demand and its
outlook, I would call the move aggressive but justified,”
Viktor Szabo, who helps manage $11.8 billion at Aberdeen Asset
Management in  London , said by e-mail. “Probably after cutting
150 basis points in a row, one might want to wait to see the
full impact so I think the next inflation report could be the
next good opportunity to react.”  The decision comes after  Hungary ’s central bank cut its
 main interest rate  for a seventh month in February to a record
low as the most indebted of the EU’s eastern members fights a
recession. In the  Czech Republic , policy makers are considering
steps to weaken the currency as the economy remains mired in a
slump even after the main rate was reduced to near zero.  Polish economic growth may slow to between 0.6 percent and
2 percent in 2013, compared with a November forecast of 0.5
percent to 2.5 percent, according to the central bank’s new
projections released today. The inflation rate may range between
1.3 percent 1.9 percent this year, compared with a previously
predicted 1.8 percent to 3.1 percent.  Consumption Contraction  While Poland’s economic growth slowed less than economists
forecast in the fourth-quarter, private consumption contracted 1
percent, the first yearly fall since 1996, the statistics office
said March 1.  Consumers, whose spending makes up 62 percent of gross
domestic product, are cutting back amid rising unemployment.
Layoffs by companies including  Telekomunikacja Polska SA (TPS) ,
Poland’s biggest phone company, and PZU SA, the largest insurer,
helped push the  jobless rate  to 14.2 percent in January. That’s
the highest since March 2007.  Still,  industrial production  unexpectedly rose 0.3 percent
in January amid improving business confidence in  Germany , while
 retail sales  increased 3.1 percent from a year earlier, beating
the most optimistic forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  The central bank should end its easing cycle in March as
the economy is poised to exit the worst of its downturn and
another rate cut could rekindle inflation down the line,  Adam Glapinski , a member of the rate-setting Monetary Policy Council,
said in an interview on Feb. 20.  ‘Bolder Move’  “Nobody expected this after policy makers have sounded so
cautious in the past few months, although the economic situation
clearly called for a bolder move,”  Piotr Bielski , economist at
Bank Zachodni WBK SA, said by phone from Warsaw today. “That’s
probably a clear signal that they are now going to end the cycle
or at least pause. Doing otherwise would make the central bank
look erratic.”  Finance Minister  Jacek Rostowski  this week called on the
central bank to cut rates as borrowing costs will have a “very
significant” impact on economic growth. Policy makers will end
the easing cycle after reducing rates to 3.25 percent in the
second quarter, the median forecast of 14 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg showed before today’s reduction.  Poland, the only EU economy to avoid recession since 2008,
was alone in the 27-nation bloc last year to raise borrowing
costs as  inflation  exceeded its 2.5 percent target for more than
two years. It declined to 1.7 percent in January, the lowest
since August 2007.  The central bank’s “new projections will remain consistent
with interest rate cuts,” Michal Dybula, an economist at BNP
Paribas SA in Warsaw, said in e-mailed report yesterday. “The
slump in  consumer spending  suggests further sharp disinflation
during the remainder of the year” and borrowing costs will
decline to 3 percent “by the summer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  