-- Porsche Litigation to Focus on Germany as Funds Drop U.S.
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-03-07T12:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/porsche-appeal-by-hedge-funds-dropped-for-case-in-germany.html
Porsche Automobil Holding SE (PAH3) ,
fighting market manipulation allegations in three countries, may
be able to consolidate most of the litigation in  Germany  after a
group of  hedge funds  dropped a U.S. appeals court case.  Elliott International LP and 11 other hedge funds agreed to
drop their suit over Porsche’s failed takeover bid for
 Volkswagen AG (VOW)  at the U.S. Court of Appeals in  New York ,
according to a court filing yesterday. The funds will instead
focus on a parallel German suit seeking 1.8 billion euros ($2.3
billion).  The legal wrangling, stemming from Porsche’s bid for VW
more than four years ago, ultimately scuttled a planned merger
between the two companies last year. Investors claim Porsche
failed to inform the markets about its takeover plan. Elliott
International has filed one of four cases seeking more than 4
billion euros combined at a court in Braunschweig, Germany.  “The litigation now more and more concentrates on Germany,
and that’s good for Porsche”, said  Juergen Pieper , an analyst
at Bankhaus Metzler, who rates the company’s shares “buy”.
“But this isn’t the end of the case, it’s continuing in
Germany, so the story isn’t over yet.”  The Stuttgart, Germany-based holding company said in a
statement that it consented to the hedge funds’ move, which must
be approved by the U.S. court. Porsche  gained  2.40 euros, or 3.9
percent, to 64.30 euros as of 12:51 p.m. in Frankfurt trading.  The decision in the Elliott International case doesn’t end
the U.S. litigation. Twenty other funds are continuing a
separate case in the  U.S. federal court . Porsche said the claims
don’t have merit.  Misled Investors  The hedge funds claim that Porsche misled investors by
denying through much of 2008 that it intended to acquire the
Wolfsburg, Germany-based carmaker. Two smaller cases were
rejected by the Braunschweig court in September.  Last month, a separate group of 26 hedge funds suing
Porsche in New York state court, including  David Einhorn ’s Greenlight Capital Inc., agreed not to pursue further appeals.
Porsche granted them a 90-day period to sue in Germany instead.  No new suits have been filed in Braunschweig, Maike Block-
Cavallaro, a spokeswoman for the tribunal, said in an interview
today. The Braunschweig court has scheduled a hearing in
existing litigation for April 17.  Porsche said it’s unclear to what extent Elliot and the 11
funds were seeking damages for the same violations in their U.S.
case and their German case.  Porsche is trying to avert similar litigation in the U.K.,
where by Cayman Islands-based investment fund Pendragon (Master)
Fund Ltd., is seeking $195 million.  German Prosecutors  German prosecutors are also continuing a criminal probe
into the issue. Former Chief Executive Officer Wendelin Wiedeking and ex-Chief Financial Officer Holger Haerter were
charged with market manipulation in December and prosecutors
have extended their investigation to include 2008 members of
Porsche’s supervisory board.  In U.S. federal court, District Judge Harold Baer in New
York in December 2010 dismissed the lawsuit by Elliott and  Black
Diamond Offshore (BDE) , representing a total of 39 U.S. and foreign-
based funds.  Baer said in his ruling that he relied on a U.S. Supreme
Court judgment that fraud claims such as those in the lawsuits
against Porsche apply only to securities listed on domestic
exchanges and domestic transactions in other securities. Baer
said his ruling applied to similar complaints against Porsche.  The U.S. appeals case is Viking Global Equities LP v.
Porsche Automobil Holding SE, 11-00397,  U.S. Court of Appeals 
for the Second Circuit ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net 
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 