-- Premier Oil Says Huntington Field to Exceed Output Plans
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2013-03-06T16:54:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/premier-oil-says-u-k-s-huntington-field-to-exceed-output-plans.html
Premier Oil Plc (PMO) , a London-based
energy explorer operating from the U.K. to  Southeast Asia , said
production from its Huntington oilfield in the  North Sea  will
exceed forecasts by at least 20 percent.  Three of four wells have already flowed at 10,000 barrels a
day each, beating a forecast for the entire field of 25,000
barrels a day, Chief Financial Officer Tony Durrant said in an
interview in  London . Premier and partner EON SE will start
output this month after “successful” development drilling.  The production prospects for Huntingdon mark a turnaround
in its fortunes, after delays at the field and at the North Sea
Rochelle deposit forced Premier to cut its 2013 output forecast
in November. The Huntington partners also faced setbacks as
 Sevan Marine ASA (SEVAN) , hired to upgrade the floating production
vessel, sold the unit to avoid bankruptcy.  Premier will assess the initial performance of the wells
before making a decision on any further upgrade to increase
capacity, according to Chief Executive Officer Simon Lockett.  “There is chat and talk about debottlenecking,” he said
in an interview, referring to a capacity expansion. “But I’d
like to see these wells as they perform first.”  Premier Oil  advanced  by 2.4 percent to 394.2 pence in
London trading, the biggest gain in a month.  Huntington also holds natural gas.  Iona Energy Inc. (INA) , which
bought a stake in the project from Carrizo Oil & Gas Ltd., said
last month the deposit will pump 27 million cubic feet of gas a
day. Norwegian Energy Co. ASA is also a partner in the project.  Output Forecast  Premier said in November it expects to pump as much as
70,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day from its fields in 2013,
down from an earlier 75,000-barrel-a-day forecast. The company
is now sticking to the revised target even after  Endeavour
International Corp. (END)  said last month that Rochelle’s first gas
production will be delayed after a storm damaged a well.  “It’s a 99 percent certainty” that partners will abandon
the damaged well and will have to drill a new one, Lockett said.
The effect on Premier’s planned production isn’t a concern
because the company’s share of output is only 500 barrels of oil
equivalent a day, he said.  Premier together with partners  Cairn Energy Plc (CNE)  and
Wintershall AG in December approved the U.K.’s Catcher field-
development plan.  Teekay Corp. (TK)  is designing a blueprint to start
pumping its first oil in 2016, according to Durrant. Sevan is
competing with Bluewater Holding BV and  BW Offshore Ltd. (BWO)  to
build the producing vessel for the field, Lockett said.  “Hopefully they will be able to make a decision within
this year with us,” Sevan Chief Executive Officer  Carl Lieungh 
told investors Feb. 27. “These things have a tendency of being
delayed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  