-- Privatbank to Lift 2013 Corporate Lending 15%, CEO Says
-- B y   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a   a n d   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 2013-03-06T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/privatbank-to-lift-2013-corporate-lending-15-ceo-says.html
Privatbank,  Ukraine ’s largest lender
by assets, wants to boost credit to large businesses by between
10 percent and 15 percent this year, Chief Executive Officer
Alexander Dubilet said.  Privatbank, which sold $175 million in Eurobonds last
month, will use the funds for lending to corporate clients,
Dubilet said in a phone interview from the eastern Ukrainian
city of Dnipropetrovsk. Its clients include  PO Yuzhmash , a
state-run company that produces satellites, rocket boosters,
airplane parts and tractors, and includes utility service
companies, energy distributors and sea ports, he said.  “Large and medium-scale businesses very much need sources
of credit,” Dubilet said on Feb. 28. “A lot will depend on the
recovery in the steel sector and the success in the  agriculture
sector .”  The Ukrainian government is urging banks to increase
lending after the economy slipped into recession last year
because demand for its exports such as steel weakened on world
markets. Prime Minister  Mykola Azarov ’s Cabinet is ready to
subsidize principle and interest to help companies and boost
economic growth to 3 percent this year, Azarov said Feb. 27.  Privatbank, owned by Ukrainian billionaires Igor Kolomoisky
and Gennady Bogoliubov, will post a net income of about 2
billion hryvnia ($246 million) this year, compared with 1.53
billion hryvnia in 2012, with the profit to be earmarked for a
capital increase. Of last year’s profit, 65 percent came from
the corporate sector and 35 percent from retail business,
Dubilet said.  ‘General Risk’  There are no “systemic” risks for the banking industry,
Dubilet said. “There is a general risk, as the economy is very
weak and very much depends on Ukraine’s trading partners.”  Ukraine’s banking industry returned to profit last year for
the first time since 2008, according to the central bank. Still,
foreign banks such as  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  and  Commerzbank AG (CBK) 
sold their Ukrainian units.  “Foreign banks have lost interest in many programs in
Ukraine, they would not like to increase their risks,” Dubilet
said. “It is possible that some of their clients will now focus
more on banks with Russian or Ukrainian capital.”  Deposits of individuals rose 22 percent to 85.86 billion
hryvnia last year, Dubilet said. Privatbank expects to increase
deposits this year at the same rate as in 2012, he added.  One of the most promising segments of retail banking is
remote access and self-service terminals, Dubilet said.  The hryvnia will not weaken “sharply,” he said. “Based
on purchase power, the hryvnia is more undervalued than
overvalued.”  “We do not expect a significant fluctuation in interbank
rates,” Dubilet said. “Interbank rates will to a larger extent
depend on the situation on the  currency market  and also from
central bank actions to regulate currency rates.”  Privatbank has a package of state domestic bonds
denominated in dollars, equivalent to more than 160 million
hryvnia.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net ;
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  