-- Prudential Says Annuity Fees Would Make Bankers Dance
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-03-06T21:23:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/prudential-says-annuity-fees-would-make-bankers-dance.html
Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) , the top
seller of variable annuities, said  Wall Street  should appreciate
the fees the life insurer makes on the retirement products, even
as some competitors cut sales to reduce risk.  “We’re getting more than 2 percentage points of fees from
the assets that are part of our annuity business,” Mark Grier,
Prudential’s vice chairman, said at a  Citigroup Inc. (C)  financial-
services conference in  Boston  today. “In your businesses, you
probably would dance in the street over 40 or 50 or 60 basis
points.” A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The insurers who have added sales or gained market share
over the past two years have sought to assure investors the
returns on variable annuities justify the risk, after the
industry was stung by losses on the products in the financial
crisis. MetLife Inc., which was the No. 1 variable annuity
provider in 2011, is among companies reducing sales after low
 interest rates  and stock-market volatility weighed on results.  Savers in variable annuities can invest in assets such as
stocks and bonds and purchase income or return guarantees. The
liabilities on the policies climbed for insurers when stock
markets plunged.  Prudential was the No. 1 seller of the products in the
first nine months of 2012 and the  Newark , New Jersey-based
company increased fees and reduced the guarantee to improve
returns.  Willing Buyers  “The quantitative evidence is that that pricing is
sustainable in the market,” Grier said today. “People want to
pay for the features that these products provide and they’re
willing to pay those kinds of prices.”  Prudential advanced 0.3 percent to $56.95 at 4:15 p.m. in
 New York . The company has slipped 4.7 percent in the past 12
months, compared with the 2.3 percent drop at MetLife.  Prudential sold $16.2 billion of individual variable
annuities in the first nine months of 2012 while MetLife sold
$14.1 billion, according to  data  from industry group Limra.  MetLife has said it’s targeting 2013 sales of no more than
$11 billion, as Chief Executive Officer  Steven Kandarian 
concentrates on business that aren’t as capital-intensive. The
company cut guarantees last month, according to a  presentation 
at a Bank of America Corp. conference.  “We’re really working our way down the risk curve on this
product,” Kandarian said at the conference. “It’s still a good
business if we get the risk profile correct.”  AIG, Lincoln  American International Group Inc. boosted variable annuity
sales last year.  Warren Buffett , the billionaire chairman of
Berkshire Hathaway Inc., bet on liabilities tied to the savings
products in a reinsurance deal with Cigna Corp. last month.  “It’s very encouraging to see smart money coming back into
the variable-annuity space.” Dennis Glass, CEO of  Lincoln
National Corp. (LNC) , said on a conference call with analysts last
month, after Buffett’s deal. Radnor, Pennsylvania-based Lincoln
ranked fifth in variable annuity sales in the first nine months
of 2012, the same as in the year-earlier period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  