-- Putin Sees Venezuela Oil Deals Moving Ahead After Chavez
-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n   a n d   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o
-- 2013-03-06T11:26:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/putin-sees-venezuela-oil-deals-moving-ahead-after-chavez.html
Russia expects to continue
benefitting from economic ties with Venezuela via billions of
dollars in oil and weapons contracts after the death of  Hugo Chavez , who led the South American country for 14 years.  “A constructive, positive and mutually beneficial agenda
will remain a constant for any government, as it will from the
Russian side,” President  Vladimir Putin ’s spokesman,  Dmitry Peskov , said in the Siberian city of Novosibirsk today.  Putin tapped OAO Rosneft Chief Executive Officer  Igor Sechin  to lead the Russian delegation to Chavez’s funeral on
March 8, Peskov said. Sergey Chemezov, head of Rustech, a
government holding company that includes several weapons
manufacturers, and Industry and Trade Minister Denis Manturov
will also attend, Peskov said.  Since Putin and Chavez first met in 2001, Venezuela has
become the most important overseas investment target for Russian
 oil companies  and is on track to become the largest export
market for Russian arms after  India  by 2015, according to Viktor
Semyonov and Igor Korotchenko, analysts at the Russian Academy
of Sciences and the Center for Analysis of World Arms Trade,
respectively.  Chavez was an “outstanding leader” and “close friend”
of Russia, Putin said in a statement released by the Kremlin.
The Venezuelan leader was an “unconventional and strong person
who looked to the future and always set the highest standard for
himself,” Putin said.  ‘Worries Overblown’  Rosneft and other Russian oil producers plan to invest
$17.6 billion in Venezuela to quadruple their combined output in
the country to 930,000 barrels a day by 2019, Venezuela’s oil
minister,  Rafael Ramirez , said in January. That would be about
equal to what  Azerbaijan , the third-largest supplier in the
former  Soviet Union , currently produces.  Under Venezuela’s constitution, an election must be held
within 30 days of the president’s death. Vice President  Nicolas Maduro  will be interim president until then, Foreign Minister
Elias Jaua said in Caracas. Maduro has led Venezuela since
Chavez, who died of cancer, missed his Jan. 10 inauguration.  “Worries are overblown,” said Grigory Volchek, spokesman
for Lukoil’s overseas arm, by phone today. “Our deal has been
approved by parliament and is profitable to the Venezuelan
government and budget.”  In all, Rosneft and its Venezuelan counterpart, Petroleos
de Venezuela SA, or PDVSA, and fellow Russian producers OAO
Lukoil and OAO Gazprom Neft plan to spend $36 billion developing
projects in the country, mainly in the Orinoco region.  Chavez T-Shirt  Venezuela is “our No. 1 priority,” Sechin said during a
trip to the country in January. Sechin wore a T-shirt emblazoned
with Chavez’s picture during a trip to the country in September.  Russian fighter jets, helicopters, tanks and anti-aircraft
systems accounted for almost two-thirds of Venezuela’s $5.4
billion of weapons imports in 2004-2011, according to data
compiled by World Arms Trade. Russia is scheduled to supply
another $3.5 billion of arms to Venezuela in the 2012-2015, six
times more than China, the data show.  Russia in 2011 granted Venezuela a $4 billion  credit line 
to buy military equipment and the two sides created a joint
bank, Evrofinance Mosnarbank, to finance development projects.
Venezuela’s National Development Bank Fonden holds 49 percent of
the lender and Russia’s VTB Group and Gazprombank own the rest.  “Russian companies will be safe from a political point of
view,” said Julian Lee, a senior analyst at the Centre for
Global Energy Studies, said by phone from  London . “The only
real risk is that the situation develops chaotically and I don’t
see that at the moment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net ;
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  