-- Qatar Airways Calls 787 Faults ‘Isolated’ as Grounding Persists
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2013-03-06T12:19:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/qatar-airways-calls-787-faults-isolated-as-grounding-persists.html
Qatar Airways Ltd. Chief Executive
Officer Akbar  Al Baker  said he has confidence in  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s
787 Dreamliner, calling the incidents that grounded the aircraft
“isolated events.”  The fact that Boeing has been unable to replicate
conditions that led to a lithium-ion battery breaking into
flames points to a one-time fault that doesn’t threaten the
safety of the program, the executive told journalists at the ITB
tourism fair in Berlin today. Al Baker said he’ll be among the
first to board the aircraft again once it resumes service.  Al Baker, who routinely uses public appearances to chastise
aircraft manufacturers for shortcomings, struck a milder tone in
Berlin, saying airlines should get behind Boeing in a time of
crisis, and that Ray Conner, the head of Boeing’s commercial
operations, is “very capable.” Al Baker said Airbus had heeded
his advice with a switch back to more traditional batteries on
its A350 aircraft, for which Qatar is the first customer, to
avoid certification delays.  “This is a time when customers must stand by Boeing, in
order to help them find a solution instead of sitting there and
criticizing them,” Al Baker said, adding that “this doesn’t
mean I won’t get compensation” for the 787 grounding.  Besides the five 787s already in its fleet, Qatar is
scheduled to received the same number this year. Boeing’s
flagship aircraft has been grounded globally since the middle of
January, as Chicago-based Boeing works to present a fix that
will satisfy U.S. aviation regulators.  The  Middle East  will also receive its first A350 aircraft
in the final quarter of next year, and Al Baker said
manufacturer Airbus SAS may surprise the public with a first
flight of the wide-body aircraft at the time of the  Paris Air
Show  in June this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  