-- Randgold CEO Sees Upside for Gold on Central-Bank Buying
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2013-03-07T21:19:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/randgold-ceo-bristow-sees-upside-for-gold-as-central-banks-buy.html
Randgold Resources Ltd. (RRS) , which
operates mines in  Africa , sees more upside than downside for
gold prices as central banks in  emerging markets  buy the
precious metal and producers limit new output.  The gold market is showing signs of inelasticity, supply is
tight and production costs are high, Chief Executive Officer
Mark Bristow said yesterday in Toronto, where he was attending
the annual Prospectors & Developers Association of Canada
convention.  Gold miners , which have underperformed the metal for
the last six years, are under pressure to improve returns and
that will probably lead to less gold production globally, he
said.  “I still believe there’s more upside than downside in the
gold price, particularly if the industry is going to be driven
to make those hard decisions,” Bristow said in an interview.
“I don’t think there’s much room to go below $1,500 this year
and I still believe there’s every potential for it to go $200
above that.”  Gold for delivery in April climbed 0.2 percent to $1,577.50
an ounce at 4:17 p.m. in New York. The metal has dropped 5.9
percent this year following 12 consecutive annual gains.  Central banks will again be strong buyers this year after
they boosted purchases 17 percent to 534.6 tons last year, the
most since 1964, according to the London-based World Gold
Council.  Bristow said he’s looking for opportunities to sign joint-
venture agreements with exploration companies, which are
struggling to access finance. Randgold signed an agreement in
December with  Kilo Goldmines Ltd. (KGL) , a company with licenses in
Democratic Republic of Congo, and will fund exploration on
Kilo’s prospects in return for incremental ownership stakes
based on certain milestones.  “With the tightness in the junior market we are expecting
to do more of these Kilo-type earn-in joint ventures,” Bristow
said.  Randgold rose 0.3 percent to 5,515 pence in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  