-- Treasuries Deliver Loss as High-Yield Bonds, Stocks Rise
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2013-03-06T08:41:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/treasuries-snap-decline-before-jobs-data-factory-orders.html
Treasuries are falling in 2013 while
high-yield bonds and stocks set records, reflecting demand for
riskier assets as the  Federal Reserve  promises to stick to its
program of quantitative easing to spur growth.  Government debt has slid 0.4 percent this year, versus a
2.1 percent gain for high-yield bonds, after accounting for
interest, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.
The high-yield gauge rose to 971.9 yesterday, the most based on
data that go back to 1986. The Dow Jones Industrial Average
climbed to its highest level ever. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
and Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  both said over the past two weeks
that the Fed should maintain stimulus efforts.  “There has been a pickup in confidence in Fed policy,”
said Will Tseng, a fixed-income trader in Taipei at Mirae Asset,
which oversees $50 billion. “High-yield and equities have
outperformed because Bernanke and Yellen have said QE will
continue until there’s a faster recovery in the U.S.”  Benchmark 10-year Treasury  yields  were little changed at
1.91 percent at 8:39 a.m. in  London , according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader data. The 2 percent note due February 2023 traded at a
price of 100 27/32.  Japan’s 10-year government bond yielded 0.67 percent, after
falling to 0.585 percent yesterday, the lowest level since 2003.
The nation’s sovereign debt has returned 1.4 percent this year,
based on the Bank of America indexes.  The  Dow Jones Industrial Average   returned  9.3 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Fed Comments  Yellen said this week central bank should continue its
monthly bond buying while tracking the costs of the program.
Bernanke in congressional testimony last week defended the Fed’s
bond purchases, saying the benefits of reducing borrowing costs
and fueling growth outweigh any potential costs.  The central bank is purchasing $85 billion of Treasury and
mortgage debt a month to put downward pressure on borrowing
costs. It has kept its benchmark target for overnight lending in
a range of zero to 0.25 percent since 2008.  Federated Investors Inc. (FII) , the Pittsburgh money manager with
$379.8 billion in assets, “nudged up” high-yield bonds in its
recommended portfolio allocations, Mark E. Durbiano, a senior
portfolio manager, wrote on the company’s website this month.
The improving U.S. economy and the strength of the nation’s
companies will support the securities, the  report  said.  “We expect the good start to the year for high yield to
continue,” Durbiano wrote.  High-Yield Strategy  The securities “will benefit” from Fed policy and slow
but positive growth,  Russ Koesterich , the global chief
investment strategist at BlackRock Inc., wrote on the company’s
 website  this week. The New York-based company is the world’s
largest money manager with $3.8 trillion in assets.  High-yield bonds are those rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s .  Mixed economic data are underscoring the need for stimulus.  U.S. companies added 170,000 jobs in February, following a
192,000 increase the previous month, economists forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey before the report today from ADP Research
Institute.  Factory orders probably fell 2.2 percent in January from
December, a separate survey showed ahead of the Commerce
Department figures. The Fed is scheduled to release its Beige
Book report on the economy.  The Labor Department’s monthly jobs report March 8 may show
the U.S.  unemployment rate  was unchanged at 7.9 percent in
February, based on responses from economists.  Treasuries fell yesterday as a report showed U.S. services
industries expanded at the fastest pace in a year.  Stimulus Concerns  Fed Bank of Richmond President  Jeffrey Lacker  and  Bill
Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund, have voiced
concern at what the central bank is doing.  Policy makers said central bankers are setting
“unhealthy” precedents by expanding their involvement in
credit markets, Lacker said.  The “scale and scope of credit-market interventions has
set precedents” that will change the relationship between
financial markets, financial institutions, the government and
central banks, he said yesterday in Washington. Lacker does not
vote on monetary policy this year.  Gains in financial markets won’t be justified unless
economic growth picks up, said Gross, who runs Pacific
Investment Management Co.’s $288.2 billion  Total Return Fund. (PTTRX)   “We’re moving closer to irrational exuberance,” Gross
said yesterday, speaking on Bloomberg Television’s “Market
Makers” with  Erik Schatzker  and  Stephanie Ruhle . “We probably
have to see a real growth rate in the United States of 3 percent
or so to justify this type of enthusiasm.”  U.S. gross domestic product will probably expand 1.8
percent in 2013, versus 2.2 percent last year, based on a
Bloomberg News survey of economists.  Gross raised the percentage of Treasuries in his fund to 30
percent in January from 26 percent in December, according to
Pimco’s  website . The company, based in  Newport Beach ,
California, is a unit Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE. (ALV)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  