-- Treasury Yields Rise Most in 3 Weeks After Hiring Report
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2013-03-06T22:10:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/treasuries-decline-as-stock-gains-sap-demand-for-safety.html
Treasury 10-year note yields rose
the most in three weeks after ADP Research Institute said
companies added more jobs than forecast last month, spurring
bets U.S. nonfarm labor data will show stronger hiring.  U.S. government  securities  fell for a third day as the
Federal Reserve’s Beige Book business survey said the economy
expanded at a modest to moderate pace across most of the
country. Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke and Vice Chairman Janet
Yellen both said over the past two weeks the central bank should
maintain stimulus efforts. The central bank bought $1.46 billion
of Treasuries today in a program to support the economy.  “It is a reminder that maybe the labor market is improving
a little bit,” Gary Pollack, who manages $12 billion as head of
fixed-income trading at Deutsche Bank AG’s Private Wealth
Management unit in New York, said of the ADP jobs data. “That
will push yields higher. That’s an important component of
economic growth.”  Ten-year note  yields  increased four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, the biggest intraday jump since Feb. 13, to
1.94 percent at 5 p.m. in New York, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader data. They touched the highest level since Feb. 25. The
price of the 2 percent security due in February 2023 dropped
11/32, or $3.44 per $1,000 face amount, to 100 18/32.  The 10-year yield has traded between 1.83 percent and 1.94
percent since Feb. 26. A day earlier, it dropped as much as 11
basis points, the most since November, from 2 percent as polls
showed  Italy  might be left with a hung parliament after
inconclusive elections, spurring speculation  Europe ’s debt
crisis would worsen.  Thirty-year yields rose five basis points to 3.15 percent.  Volume Increases  Trading  volume  increased to $226 billion of Treasuries,
after falling on March 4 to $183 billion, the lowest level this
year, according to ICAP Plc, the largest inter-dealer broker of
U.S. government debt. Average daily volume over the past 12
months was $247 billion.  The  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  was up 0.3 percent after
gaining 0.5 percent earlier and topping yesterday’s record high.  Treasuries dropped after Roseland, New Jersey-based ADP
Research said U.S. companies added 198,000 workers. The increase
followed a gain in the previous month that was revised to
215,000 from the 192,000 originally reported. The forecast in a
Bloomberg survey was for 170,000 in February.  ‘Tight Range’  “Because we’re in such a tight range, any sort of blip is
cause for notice,” said Michael Lorizio, senior trader at
Manulife Asset Management in  Boston . “Bernanke and Yellen both
have gone out of their way to show they’re not going to be in a
rush to tighten policy.”  The Fed purchased Treasuries today due from February 2036
through August 2042. It will buy as much as $3.75 billion of the
debt tomorrow in the last of four operations this week,
according to a  schedule  on the New York Fed’s website. The
acquisitions are part of its purchases of $85 billion a month of
Treasury and mortgage debt under the quantitative easing
strategy to support the economy.  The central bank’s Beige Book cited rising consumer demand
for homes and autos.  “The majority of districts reported modest improvements in
labor market conditions, although hiring plans were limited in
several districts,” the central bank said in the survey, which
is based on reports from its 12 regional banks.  FOMC Meeting  The anecdotal snapshot of the economy helps the Federal
Open Market Committee evaluate whether employment shows signs of
the substantial improvement it says would warrant shrinking or
halting bond purchases. The committee next meets March 19-20.  “I don’t think that growth is anywhere near strong enough
for the Fed to consider pulling back on its accommodation,”
said Thomas Simons, a government-debt economist in New York at
Jefferies Group Inc., one of 21 primary dealers that trade with
the Fed. “Yields will drift” because of the pace of economic
growth, he said.  Bonds pared losses earlier after Commerce Department data
showed U.S.  factory orders  fell 2 percent in January from
December, when they increased a revised 1.3 percent. Economists
in a Bloomberg survey projected a 2.2 percent decline.  The Labor Department’s employment report this week will
show overall U.S. nonfarm payrolls rose by 163,000 jobs last
month, according to the median forecast of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg. Payrolls gained 157,000 positions in January.  Yellen said March 4 the central bank should continue its
monthly bond buying while tracking the costs of the program.
Bernanke in congressional testimony last week defended the Fed’s
bond purchases, saying the benefits of reducing borrowing costs
and fueling growth outweigh any potential drawbacks.  Buying ‘Lure’  “The lure of the Fed buying continues to hold the market
in better than one would think, given the extent of the good
numbers we’ve seen over the last three weeks,” said Thomas Roth, senior Treasury trader in New York at Mitsubishi UFJ
Securities USA Inc.  Philadelphia Fed Bank President Charles Plosser said today
the central bank should slow the pace of its bond buying because
the potential costs from more stimulus outweigh the benefits.  “We should begin to taper our asset purchases with an aim
of ending them before year-end,” Plosser said today in a speech
in Lancaster,  Pennsylvania . “With interest rates already
extremely low and the Fed’s balance sheet large and growing,
monetary policy is posing risks to the economy in terms of
financial stability, market functioning and price stability.”  The Fed has kept its  benchmark target  for overnight lending
in a range of zero to 0.25 percent since 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  