-- Renault Gains Union Backing to Eliminate 7,500 Positions
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-03-06T14:17:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/renault-gains-union-backing-to-eliminate-7-500-positions.html
Renault SA (RNO)  can move forward with
eliminating 7,500 jobs and freezing wages after two of the main
unions at France’s second-largest carmaker gave their approval.  “We decided earlier this morning to sign the agreement,”
Jean-Yves Sabot, head of the FO union’s automotive branch, said
today by phone. The CFE-CGC said Feb. 22 it would back the deal.  The two unions represent about 45 percent of Renault
employees. Under French law, a company needs the support of
unions representing at least 30 percent of the staff for a
collective bargaining agreement to be valid.  The deal enables Renault, based in the Paris suburb of
Boulogne-Billancourt, to reduce its French workforce 17 percent
by 2016 through attrition. Labor leaders also agreed on a wage
freeze for 2013 and to increase the average number of working
hours. Annual savings from the cuts will reach 500 million euros
($652 million), Gerard Leclercq, head of Renault’s French
operations, said on Jan. 30.  “This is significant,” Philippe Houchois, a London-based
analyst at UBS AG, said by phone. “It brushes up Renault’s
competitiveness compared to  Spain ” or  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) ’s U.K.
factory in Sunderland, he said.  The shares  rose  as much as 3.5 percent to 51.69 euros and
were up 3 percent as of 3:12 p.m. in Paris trading. The stock
has gained 26 percent this year, valuing the company at 15.2
billion euros.  Law Change  The next step is a national works council that will take
place on March 12, Stephane Guilbaud, a Renault spokesman, said
today in Geneva. The CFDT and CGT unions, the other two of the
four biggest unions, haven’t yet decided whether they will
support the plan, said Sophie Chantegay, a spokeswoman for the
carmaker.  President  Francois Hollande ’s cabinet today endorsed plans
to revamp France’s job market. The proposed law is based on a
January agreement reached between French business leaders and
three unions giving companies the right to reduce working time
and salaries when demand slows while also extending medical and
unemployment benefits and increasing taxes on short-term
contracts.  Global Deliveries  Renault’s global deliveries fell 6.3 percent to 2.55
million cars and light vehicles last year, with a 19 percent
sales drop in  Europe  that was the worst among automakers based
in the region. The manufacturer is working to increase its
presence in  emerging markets  to reduce its reliance on
recession-plagued southern Europe.  The carmaker said on Jan. 22 that it’s willing to increase
production in  France  by 15 percent once a labor deal is reached.  Renault’s French factories may build 80,000 more vehicles a
year by 2016 to supply manufacturers that the French
manufacturer cooperates with, including Nissan Motor Co. and
 Daimler AG (DAI) , the carmaker said on Jan. 22.  Daimler’s Mercedes brand is looking at building A- and B-
Class models at a Renault site, German newspaper Auto Motor und
Sport reported today, citing unidentified Mercedes employees.
Raluca Barb, a spokeswoman for Renault, and Martin Steinlehner,
a Daimler spokesman, declined to comment. Renault’s full-year
production in France amounted to 530,000 vehicles for its own
brand in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Geneva at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  