-- Roche’s Rituxan Cures Rare Skin-Blistering Disease in Study
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2013-03-06T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/roche-s-rituxan-cures-rare-skin-blistering-disease-in-study.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s top-selling drug
Rituxan effectively cured most cases of a rare and deadly skin
disease in a patient study that suggests the medicine may
replace steroids as the standard treatment.  In a trial among 22 people with severe pemphigus, a
disorder marked by blisters on the skin and in the mouth and
genitals, 59 percent were symptom-free more than six years after
treatment with a single dose of Rituxan, researchers at
 France ’s National Institute of Health and Medical Research in
Rouen wrote in the journal  Science Translational Medicine  today.  Pemphigus is usually treated with steroids, though relapses
are common, requiring long-term treatment that can cause
complications including diabetes, osteoporosis and severe
infections. While the study tested Rituxan in patients already
treated with steroids, the researchers expect results in about a
year from a larger trial that compares the drug with steroids as
a frontline therapy, said Philippe Musette, a professor of
dermatology who led the research.  “In an autoimmune disease it’s really difficult to have
complete remission,” Musette said in a telephone interview.
“With one shot of rituximab we have a long-term result,” he
said, using Rituxan’s generic name.  Rituxan, approved as a treatment for lymphoma, leukemia and
rheumatoid arthritis, had sales of 6.7 billion Swiss francs
($7.1 billion) last year, making it Basel, Switzerland-based
Roche’s biggest-selling product. The drug is sold as MabThera
outside the U.S.  Off Label  Roche has no plans to seek regulatory approval of Rituxan
for the treatment of pemphigus, Daniel Grotzky, a company
spokesman, said in an e-mail. The drugmaker is aware that some
doctors prescribe the medicine for pemphigus, but doesn’t
promote the so-called off-label use of any of its products,
Grotzky said. Doctors in some countries, including the U.S., are
allowed to prescribe drugs that are approved for one disease for
any other disease.  In the trial, a single dose of Rituxan cleared the
lesions caused by pemphigus in all but one of the patients in an
average of 3 months. Seventeen patients relapsed, of whom nine
received a second dose, with seven achieving complete
remission -- meaning they had no symptoms and required no
further treatment. Two patients died of heart disease, who were
also considered to be in complete remission.  Pemphigus is a so-called autoimmune disease in which the
immune system attacks proteins needed to glue cells together. It
strikes as many as seven people per million each year, mostly in
middle-age or older.  Before it was treated with steroids, about  70 percent  of
people with the disease would die within a year, according to
the Sacramento, California-based  International Pemphigus and
Pemphigoid Foundation .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  