-- Romanian Leu Falls 1st Day in 3 Before Local Bond Sale Tomorrow
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2013-03-06T12:15:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/romanian-leu-falls-1st-day-in-3-before-local-bond-sale-tomorrow.html
The leu weakened for the first time
in three days ahead of the first local debt sale since three
Romanian local bonds entered  JPMorgan & Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s emerging-
market bond index.  The leu pared the second-best advance this year among
eastern European, Middle Eastern and African peers tracked by
Bloomberg as JPMorgan said in a report yesterday extra demand
for Romanian debt amid index inclusion will be limited.
Investors have already boosted their holding of Romanian bonds
by $3.5 billion through January, the U.S. bank said, citing
Ministry of Finance data. The central bank scrapped a limit on
the size of its weekly repurchase auctions on March 4, almost
five months after imposing the cap, increasing money supply to
commercial banks.  “Injecting unlimited liquidity is a sign of transparency
and could accelerate the decline in short-term rates and
yields,” Ana-Maria Morarescu, a Bucharest-based economist at
Raiffeisen Bank Romania SA wrote in a note today. “Over the
short-run this might bode well for the leu, but the limited
downside potential of yields in the absence of a key rate cut
could reduce non-residents’ appetite for Romanian bonds and this
weaken support for the leu.”  The leu depreciated less than 0.1 percent to 4.3586 per
euro by 2:12 p.m. in Bucharest, cutting its gain this year to
2.1 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Banca Nationala a Romaniei lent 7.3 billion lei ($2.2
billion), matching the banks’ bids at its weekly currency sale
earlier this week. The central bank, which has a managed-float
policy for the currency, has restricted repurchase agreement
operations since Oct. 8. The bank has kept its key rate
unchanged at a record low of 5.25 percent during its seventh
monetary policy meeting on Feb. 5.  The Finance Ministry plans to raise 500 million lei in a
sale of January 2016 bonds tomorrow. The debt on auction is
among the three fixed-income securities included in the JPMorgan
index from March 1. The country last issued 398 million lei in
2016 bonds on Feb. 14 at an average yield of 5.73 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  