-- Royalty Pharma Meeting With Elan Investors on Bid
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2013-03-06T15:20:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/royalty-pharma-meeting-with-elan-investors-on-bid.html
Royalty Pharma said it’s meeting
with as many as 15  Elan Corp. (ELN)  shareholders from today to
persuade them to accept its offer to buy the Irish drugmaker.  The company “remains committed to acquiring Elan on the
terms set out” in its Feb. 25 offer, New York-based Royalty
said today in a statement. “Royalty Pharma is ready and able to
move quickly to implement an offer and believes that it will be
able to complete due diligence in 20 days.”  Elan hasn’t held talks with Royalty Pharma since it offered
to buy Elan for about $6.5 billion, or $11 per American
depositary receipt, Elan Chief Executive Officer Kelly Martin
said in a telephone interview March 4. Royalty will meet with
investors in the U.S. this week and in  Europe  next week, said
Chief Executive Officer Pablo Legorreta.  “We have had some conversations with shareholders to
arrange meetings and a roadshow, and it has been fairly positive
so far,” Legorreta said in a telephone interview today. “It’s
very important to have access to due diligence to move this
along.”  Royalty said today that it was “disappointed” that the
board of Elan has not engaged in discussions and posted a
presentation for Elan investors on its  website .  Royalty Committed  “This shows Royalty Pharma is committed to trying to push
the offer through,” said Richard Parkes, an analyst at Deutsche
Bank in London. “If they get significant support from major
shareholders, it may put pressure on management to consider the
offer more closely.”  Elan said Feb. 6 it had agreed to sell its 50 percent
interest in the Tysabri multiple-sclerosis drug to  Biogen Idec
Inc. (BIIB)  for $3.25 billion in cash plus royalties from sales of the
medicine. The Dublin-based company said it would use the
proceeds to invest in pharmaceutical assets, and also would
return some of the cash to shareholders.  After some investors and analysts expressed skepticism
about the acquisition plan, Elan provided more details. The
company said Feb. 22 it would buy back $1 billion of shares
after the Tysabri sale closes, and on March 4 announced a
dividend tied to the royalties. The drug had $1.6 billion in
revenue last year.  “Any credible proposal which may be made by Royalty Pharma
or any other party will of course be considered by the company
alongside the strategic transactions and unique investment
thesis referred to in our recent announcements,” Elan said in a
statement today.  Shares Rise  Elan rose 0.4 percent to 9.03 euros at 3:00 p.m. in Dublin.
The ADRs fell 0.1 percent in New York to $11.86, staying above
the $11 offer indicating shareholders expect Royalty Pharma to
raise its bid. The company’s shareholders include New Brunswick,
New Jersey-based  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , which owns 18 percent.  Elan is interested in buying companies, both listed and
closely held, with drug treatments for neurological disorders as
well as those for metabolic diseases such as diabetes, Martin
said this week. Announcements for any such deals may come
“fairly soon” after the Tysabri agreement with Weston,
Massachusetts-based Biogen closes at the end of the second
quarter, he said.  Royalty Pharma has said the sale of Elan would allow
shareholders to avoid the risks of Martin’s plan to make
purchases with the proceeds from Tysabri. Royalty Pharma is the
world’s largest investor in pharmaceutical royalties with a
portfolio of 37 approved and marketed products, according to the
company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in  London  at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Connolly in Frankfurt at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  