-- Rupee Rises Most in Week on Optimism U.S. Data Will Spur Inflows
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-03-06T11:42:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/rupee-rises-most-in-week-on-optimism-u-s-data-will-spur-inflows.html
India’s rupee rose the most in a
week on optimism an improvement in the U.S. services industry,
which drove stocks in the world’s largest economy to a record
high, will spur inflows to  emerging markets .  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s non-manufacturing
index, which covers about 90 percent of the  U.S. economy ,
increased to 56 last month, the highest level since February
2012. The rally in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  erased
losses from the financial crisis, promoting gains in stocks
across  Asia . The rupee’s advance will be limited because last
week’s budget doesn’t include a cut in expenditure, according to
Bloomberg economist Tamara Henderson.  “The best hope for the rupee would seem to rest with
global risk appetite, whereby a rising tide of global investor
bullishness would lift India’s ‘boat’ alongside other investment
destinations,” Singapore-based Henderson wrote in a report
today. “Without a sustained commitment to expenditure
restraint, the rupee will likely languish relative to its
peers.”  The currency climbed 0.4 percent to 54.7200 per dollar in
Mumbai, the biggest gain since Feb. 27, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. One-month implied volatility, a gauge of
expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options, fell
eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 9.64 percent.  The  S&P BSE Sensex Index (SENSEX)  rose for a second day. It fell 1.5
percent on Feb. 28, along with a 1 percent decline in the rupee,
the day the budget was announced.  India Budget  India’s budget projected a 16.4 percent increase in total
spending and a 23.4 percent jump in targeted receipts excluding
borrowings. The revenue cushion relies on temporary tax hikes
and is insufficient to reduce the deficit in rupee terms because
expenditures are almost 50 percent larger than revenues,
Henderson wrote.  The nation’s service industries expanded at a slower pace
in February, HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics said in a
statement yesterday, as the weakest economic growth in a decade
capped demand. The purchasing managers’ index fell to 54.2 from
57.5 in January.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards traded at 55.86 per
dollar, compared with 55.89 yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Offshore non-deliverable contracts were
at 55.76 versus 55.94. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell
assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are
settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  