-- Russia to Allow Georgian Wine Imports After Seven-Year Ban
-- B y   H e l e n a   B e d w e l l
-- 2013-03-06T12:46:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/russia-to-allow-georgian-wine-imports-after-7-year-ban-ria-says.html
     March 6 (Bloomberg) -- Russia  will allow 36 Georgian
wineries and four makers of mineral water to register their
products, effectively lifting a seven-year ban on imports from
the former Soviet republic.  The decision was made after Russian inspectors carried out
the first round of sanitation checks in Georgia, Russia’s public
health chief,  Gennady Onishchenko , said today in comments
broadcast on state television.  “Georgian wineries and factories successfully passed their
checks in order to appear on the Russian market, and we expect
further checks on March 25,” Levan Davitashvili, head of
Georgia’s National Wine Agency, told reporters in Tbilisi today.  Russia in 2006 imposed a ban on Georgian wine, mineral
water and agricultural products after a spy scandal, depriving
the South Caucasus nation of its biggest foreign market. It
extended the embargo to postal and transport links after the two
countries fought a war over a Georgian breakaway region two
years later.  Georgian Prime Minister Bidzina Ivanishvili, a Russian-
trained economist and engineer, has promised to improve
political and economic ties with the country’s northern neighbor
following his upset election victory in October over the party
of President Mikhail Saakashvili.  Health Checks  A total of 93 Georgian companies have sought to resume
shipments to Russia, and 40 more firms may be inspected as part
of a second round of health checks, Davitashvili said.  “The process of entering the Russian market begins, but
it’s too early to say how much increase we expect in sales,”
said George Margvelashvili, president of Tbilisi-based wine
maker Tbilvino.  Georgian wine exports increased to $54.1 million in 2011,
the latest year for which data were available and the most since
the embargo. Exports rose 37.7 percent from a year earlier to
16.9 million liters, according to  Georgia ’s National Statistics
Office of Georgia. Ukraine, Belarus and Kazakhstan topped the
list of customers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helena Bedwell in Tbilisi at 
 hbedwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  