-- Ryan to Unveil Republican Balanced Budget Plan Next week
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2013-03-07T05:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/ryan-plans-to-unveil-republican-budget-plan-next-week.html
House Republicans  plan a new front
in Washington’s budget wars with a proposal they say would erase
the government’s deficit within a decade.  House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan  of  Wisconsin  said
he will unveil next week a fiscal blueprint delineating how
Republicans would eliminate a deficit projected to reach $978
billion in 2023.  The plan’s timetable is more ambitious than previous
versions of Ryan’s tax-and-spending proposals, the last of which
wouldn’t have balanced the government’s books until 2040. It’s
also a gamble that the promise of erasing  red ink  without tax
increases will outweigh concerns over the wrenching changes in
spending policies that would be needed to make the numbers work.  “We can show the country that this is an achievable goal,
a goal that we all ought to share, a goal that helps us prevent
a debt crisis, a goal that helps our economy,” Ryan told
reporters yesterday.  The proposal will come amid a separate fight over what to
do about the $85 billion in automatic spending cuts that began
last week, the penalty for lawmakers’ failure to break their
long-running impasse over fiscal issues that include cutting
entitlement programs and raising  taxes . President  Barack Obama 
has begun contacting individual Republican lawmakers, including
Ryan, in search of a long-range deal.  Medicare Changes  As in previous years, Ryan’s plan will include partial
privatization of the Medicare program, with those 55 years of
age and older exempt from any changes. After floating the idea
of exempting a smaller pool of future retirees -- which would
generate budget savings faster -- an aide said Ryan has dropped
that idea. The lawmaker himself declined to comment when asked
about it by reporters.  His proposal will be unveiled before Obama presents his own
fiscal blueprint, which is supposed to kick off the government’s
annual budgeting process. The president’s plan was due by the
first Monday in February. The administration has said it was
delayed by the early January agreement to avoid the so-called
fiscal cliff, which increased taxes on top earners and delayed
until March 1 the start of the automatic spending cuts required
by a 2011 law raising the  debt ceiling .  Ryan, the Republicans’ 2012 vice presidential candidate,
blasted the delay, saying Obama is “waiting for others to
lead” on deficit reduction.  “The person in the White House ought to lead -- that’s
what presidents are supposed to do,” he said. The delays, he
added, show “there is not a seriousness of purpose to fixing
our budget.”  Even so, Ryan said Obama has called him to discuss the
budget.  Private Talks  “I have talked to him,” Ryan said. “I’ll keep our
conversations confidential, as they ought to be.”  Referring to  Social Security  and Medicare, he also said,
“We need to prepare for the retirement of the baby boom
generation for this country to save these programs not just for
current retirees, but for the next wave of retirees.”  Aides declined to say how much spending Ryan would need to
cut to reach the balanced budget goal. His task has been made
easier by revised budget forecasts showing health-care spending
growing less quickly than anticipated. Medicare and Medicaid are
now projected to cost $200 billion less in 2020 than the
nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office  predicted three years
ago.  What’s more, the fiscal-cliff deal is projected to generate
an additional $600 billion in revenue, which Ryan, 43, said he
will include in his budget. “We’re not going to refight that,”
he said.  Senate Plan  Also next week, the Senate is to begin debating a
Democratic budget proposal. Senate Budget Committee Chairwoman
 Patty Murray  of Washington state has said any plan enacted must
draw from both sides of the budget ledger, so that version can
be expected to seek additional tax increases on top earners.  With House Republican leaders stressing their opposition to
increasing taxes, little prospect exists of agreement between
the two chambers, which means Congress probably will go a fourth
consecutive year without approving an annual budget.  Many economists argue it makes little difference whether
the budget is technically balanced, saying what matters is
bringing debt down to manageable levels.  “There is absolutely no reason why, from an economic
standpoint, our goal should be a balanced budget,” said former
Congressional Budget Office Director Bob Reischauer.  Politically Potent  Still, it’s a powerful idea for many voters though who
consider it shorthand for fiscal responsibility, said James
Savage, a  University of Virginia  professor who’s written about
the politics of balanced budgets.  “How do they know if government is being managed
effectively?” said Savage. “One of the easiest measurements
is: Is the budget balanced?”  That’s “how people think about it, and how they’ve been
encouraged to think about it,” he said.  “This has gone on
since the founding of the Republic.”  Ryan’s previous budget would have reduced the deficit to
$287 billion at the end of the first 10 years.  “Our budgets always got close but never quite there,” he
said. “We’re going to do some additional things to make sure
that we get there, and we’re going to show that is clearly an
achievable goal.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in  Washington  at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  