-- Salt May Boost Immune Diseases Through Inflammation
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-03-06T18:04:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/salt-may-boost-immune-diseases-through-inflammation.html
Diets high in salt, tied to
hypertension and heart risk in some studies, may also worsen
diseases caused by abnormal immune response, laboratory research
suggests.  In a study published today in the journal  Nature , mice fed
high-salt diets had a more severe version of an animal form of
multiple sclerosis, an autoimmune disease that affects the
central nervous system. Two other papers showed how the cells
interact with the body to promote inflammation.  Autoimmune diseases, illnesses such as psoriasis and asthma
in which the system that protects the body from invaders wrongly
attacks healthy cells, affect as many as 23.5 million in the
U.S., according to the  National Institutes of Health . The
prevalence is rising, though it isn’t clear why. Scientists have
suggested genes and the environment play a role.  “It’s very clear in experimental models in animals that
there’s a dramatic effect going from low salt to high salt,”
said David Hafler, chairman of the department of neurology at
Yale School of Medicine in  New Haven ,  Connecticut , and author of
one of the studies. The next step is to investigate low-salt
diet in people, he said.  Some of the original hints about salt’s role in autoimmune
disease were from an observation that eating at fast-food
restaurants more than once a week prompted an increase in
inflammation, Hafler said.  T Cells  In human-cell culture, the researchers found that the
addition of salt influences the development of certain kinds of
T cells, white blood cells that ordinarily help the body fight
infections. Some of these cells, called T helper 17, help the
gut to maintain the barrier between it and the rest of the body.
They also produce an inflammatory cytokine called
interleukin-17, which is known to play a role in some autoimmune
diseases.  Hafler’s group found  that in human cells in the lab,
adding saline to the cell culture also promoted inflammation.  In a  second study , scientists led by  Aviv Regev  and  Vijay
Kuchroo  from the Broad Institute of MIT and  Harvard University ,
based in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , examined these cells further.
 A third study , also led by Regev and Kuchroo, showed that a
salt-sensing enzyme called SGK1 plays a role in creating the
harmful reactions from T helper 17 cells.  Other factors besides salt may influence the same pathway,
 John O’Shea , the scientific director of the National Institutes
of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases, said in a
telephone interview. Though a diet high in salt might worsen
autoimmune disease, today’s studies don’t establish exactly
which cells the salt works on.  Disease Variation  What’s more, autoimmune diseases vary, O’Shea said.
Blocking interleukin-17 helps people with  psoriasis , while those
with inflammatory bowel disease don’t benefit as much. And
though the scientists showed that salt worsens disease in mice,
the illness was induced by scientists. That may not mean that
dietary salt prompts or aggravates spontaneously arising
diseases, he said.  “People will be interested in trying to attack these
problems,” he said. “One obvious and immediate thing is to
look closer at the epidemiology of those autoimmune diseases and
see if there really is a link with a high-salt diet. As soon as
these papers come out, this is something epidemiologists might
be thinking about.”  In some diseases, it might be worthwhile to put patients on
a low-salt diet, since it is likely low-risk, O’Shea said. Then
scientists could measure the levels of interleukin-17 to see if
the levels of inflammation are lower. The natural diseases to
start with are psoriasis, allergies and asthma, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  San Francisco  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  