-- Samsung’s Patent Spat With Apple Spurs U.S. Lobbying Push
-- B y   T e r j e   L a n g e l a n d
-- 2013-03-07T10:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/samsung-s-patent-spat-with-apple-spurs-u-s-lobbying-push.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  has doubled
mobile-phone sales in the U.S. since 2008. As the company faces
anti-dumping measures and a protracted court battle with  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) , its U.S. lobbying bill is growing even faster.  Samsung boosted spending on lobbyists to $900,000 last year
from $150,000 in 2011 as it tries to influence the federal
government on issues ranging from intellectual-property
infringement to telecommunications infrastructure, regulatory
 filings  show. The company also hired Sony Corp. veteran Joel
Wiginton to run a new government-relations office in  Washington .  The higher spending comes as the South Korean company is
embroiled in patent disputes with Apple on four continents as
the two struggle for dominance in an industry expected to double
to $847 billion in sales by 2016. In a U.S. lawsuit, Apple was
initially awarded $1 billion in damages after a jury decided
Samsung copied the iPhone maker’s designs for mobile devices.  “Samsung is being sued left and right,” said  R. Polk
Wagner , a professor of intellectual-property law at the
University of Pennsylvania Law School. “A major component of
their business is smartphones, and this is becoming a very
litigious area.”  Last year’s lobbying expenditure was the biggest for
Samsung in a single year, according to a U.S. government
 database  of lobbying disclosure filings dating to 1999. The
previous high was $370,000 in 2008.  In a statement, Samsung said the expanded effort is “a
prudent step as part of day-to-day business operations, our
growing presence outside of our headquarters country, and our
commitment to transparency.” The company declined to comment
further on its lobbying expenditures.  Google, Facebook  Samsung’s increased spending is small compared with some
rivals, though it’s growing faster than many. Apple spent $2
million on U.S. lobbying last year, down 13 percent from 2011,
and Sony spent $3.3 million, a decrease of 10 percent, according
to the  Center for Responsive Politics , a Washington group that
tracks lobbying.  Google Inc. boosted its spending 88 percent last year to
$18.2 million, while lobbying expenses at  Facebook Inc. (FB)  jumped
to $4 million from $1.4 million in 2011, according to the
center.  The greater focus on lobbying by technology companies
reflects the growing importance of U.S. laws and regulations to
the industry as Congress considers issues from patents to
 Internet privacy  to copyright infringement, said  Mark Lemley ,
who teaches  patent law  at  Stanford Law School  in  California .  “It’s just an increasingly important part of their
business,” Lemley said. “What happens in Washington can
significantly affect the lives of technology companies, and they
can’t ignore it.”  AT&T, Lenovo  The bulk of Samsung’s U.S. lobbying money last year,
$760,000, went to the law firm  Akin Gump  Strauss Hauer & Feld,
according to the filings. The firm also lobbied on behalf of
AT&T Inc. and Lenovo Group Ltd., filings show. Akin Gump
declined to comment.  Samsung is involved in dozens of legal disputes with Apple
worldwide as the two biggest smartphone makers seek to use
patents to curb each other’s growth or force changes in the
other’s products. Apple sold 27.4 million iPhone 5s in the
quarter ended Dec. 31, and Samsung sold 15.4 million Galaxy 3S
models,  according to  researcher  Strategy Analytics .  “Apple is spending a lot of time, money and resources on
lobbying, so Samsung is doing the same,” said Mark C. Newman, a
senior analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein in  Hong Kong .  Washing Machines  In August, Apple won the verdict against Samsung from a
federal court in San Jose, California. Apple also sought to ban
sales of infringing Samsung devices, a request that the judge
rejected. Samsung has denied copying Apple devices, and both
companies have filed appeals.  Samsung and  Ericsson AB (ERICB)  also have lodged patent-
infringement complaints against each other, and the Korean
company is challenging U.S. anti-dumping duties imposed on its
washing machines after a complaint by  Whirlpool Corp. (WHR)   The company’s increased attention to U.S. policy parallels
the growth of its business there. Though Samsung doesn’t break
out revenues by country, regional data show the Americas to be
its largest market, generating 29 percent of its sales in 2011,
the latest year available, up from 25 percent in 2009.  Samsung’s U.S. handset revenue increased to $18.5 billion
in 2012 from $8.9 billion in 2008, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg Industries.  5,081 Patents  Samsung says it will spend $4 billion to expand its chip
factory in Austin,  Texas , bringing total investment in the
facility to $15 billion. The company is also planning a 1.1
million-square-foot sales and research-and-development
headquarters for its semiconductor business near  San Jose .  Samsung has registered more U.S. patents annually than any
other company except International Business Machines Corp. since
2006, data from the  U.S. Patent Office  show. The Korean company
won 5,081 patents last year, versus 6,478 for IBM, according to
research firm IFI Claims Patent Services.  Samsung, based in Suwon,  South Korea , isn’t the first Asian
manufacturer to get more involved in U.S. politics as it expands
in the world’s largest economy. Responding to U.S. import
barriers and threats of increased tariffs in the 1980s and
1990s,  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and Honda Motor Co. increased their
U.S. lobbying as they built factories in North America to make
vehicles for the local market, said Bill Visnic, a senior editor
at Edmunds.com, an automotive research website.  Tariff Threats  Last year, Toyota spent about $3.4 million on lobbying,
according to the Center for Responsive Politics. The world’s
largest carmaker pursued issues including energy, trade
agreements, taxes and safety, regulatory filings show.  Last year’s court ruling in San Jose may prove to have the
same effect on Samsung as tariff threats did for Toyota,
according to Amir Anvarzadeh, a manager for Asia equity sales at
 BGC Partners Inc. (BGCP)  in  Singapore .  Samsung was “very close to being banned,” Anvarzadeh
said. “That was a wake-up call that, ‘Hey, we need to expand
our presence, particularly in Washington, and get some lobbying
power.’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terje Langeland in Tokyo at 
 tlangeland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  