-- San Bernardino Wrongly Transferred Cash, California Says
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2013-03-06T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/san-bernardino-wrongly-transferred-cash-california-says.html
Bankrupt San Bernardino,  California ,
improperly transferred $108.4 million in property, cash and
invested funds from its redevelopment agency as the agency faced
extinction, state Controller John Chiang said.  The inland Southern California city’s redevelopment
authority, one of about 400 eliminated last year by a law
intended to shore up California’s finances, shouldn’t have
handed over its assets to the nonprofit San Bernardino Economic
Development Corporation, Chiang’s review concluded.  San Bernardino filed for Chapter 9 bankruptcy in August,
citing a $46 million shortfall that city leaders blamed
partially on the loss of redevelopment funding. The city of
209,000 is the second-largest U.S. municipality to seek court
protection from creditors.  “I’m working to make sure redevelopment assets go where
they belong: to retiring RDA debt and paying for critical
services at the local level,” Chiang said today in an e-mailed
statement accompanying his  review .  The Democratic controller also identified $420.5 million in
redevelopment assets that haven’t been transferred to any
agency. Those should be delivered to a successor agency that
repays redevelopment bonds, the review concluded.  In the city’s response to Chiang’s review, the then-acting
city manager, Andrea Travis-Miller, wrote that the transfer of
redevelopment assets was legal. In any case, she wrote, the city
can’t force the nonprofit to return the funds.  Travis-Miller also wrote that the $420.5 million in
redevelopment assets already have been transferred to the city’s
successor agency.  Travis-Miller resigned from her San Bernardino job in
January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in  Los Angeles  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 