-- Sarkozy Says He May Make a Comeback in French Public Life
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2013-03-06T13:45:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/sarkozy-says-he-may-make-a-comeback-in-french-public-life.html
Nicolas Sarkozy , the first French
president in more than 30 years to fail to win re-election, said
he may seek to make a comeback in public life.  In his first comments on the subject, Sarkozy said it was
his “duty” to help the country facing an economic and social
crisis, Valeurs Actuelles magazine reported.  “Unfortunately, there will be a moment when it won’t even
be a question of ‘do you want to’ but ‘do you have a choice?’ to
come back into public life,”  Valeurs Actuelles  quoted him as
saying in an interview. “It won’t be a glorious moment for
France.”  Sarkozy, 58, said his return to public life would be in the
economic arena, not in politics. He lost to the Socialist
Party’s  Francois Hollande  in the May presidential elections, and
has since participated in conferences on economic and global
topics in the U.S., Qatar,  Switzerland  and  Brazil .  Like all former French presidents, he is a member of the
country’s  Constitutional Court . Customarily, the members of the
body don’t comment on political matters.  Sarkozy has criticized Hollande’s relationship with German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel , saying the French president is running
a policy that’s “the exact opposite of Germany’s.”  He has also opposed Hollande’s strategy to wage a war in
Mali, saying the French leader was wrong to support the African
nation “which doesn’t even have a government.”  Quitting Politics  Sarkozy, sanctioned for his flamboyant personal style and
the country’s slowing economic growth, last year became the
second French president to lose a re-election bid since World
War II after former President Valery Giscard d’Estaing was
vanquished in 1981.  Shortly after his defeat Sarkozy promised to retire from
French politics.  The former leader, whose new state-paid law office is
located less than half a mile from the Elysee presidential
palace, said he wants to cultivate his reputation as an
international figure and lead an ordinary life taking his 17-
month-old daughter Giulia to school. He is married to the model-
turned-singer  Carla Bruni , his third wife.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  