-- Sax Player Mines Homer, Grabs Grammy With Metheny Group
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2013-03-06T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/sax-player-mines-homer-grabs-grammy-with-metheny-group.html
Jazz saxophonist  Chris Potter  was in
a bookstore paging through Homer’s “Odyssey” -- a book he’d
last read in high school -- when he found himself inspired.  “It resonated, with all these big themes,” said Potter,
42, during a chat over coffee at Harlem’s Cafe Amrita in his
neighborhood.  The inspiration eventually led to his latest CD, “The
Sirens” ( ECM Records ), which broke into Billboard magazine’s
jazz chart at No. 14 a week after its February release.  “This project changed my writing process in a way that I
liked,” said Potter, a Chicago native. “I imagined the songs
simpler, and I had a core idea of people sailing around the
Mediterranean.”  Last year, Potter voyaged as a sideman with  Pat Metheny and
his Unity Band . The group won a Grammy Award three weeks ago for
Best Instrumental Jazz Album.  Potter embarked on a U.S. tour last month as leader of a
band that includes Ethan Iverson on piano, Larry Grenadier on
bass and drummer Eric Harland. They’re at the Terry Theater in
Jacksonville,  Florida , on Friday and Saturday.  “I like to be surprised night after night,” Potter said
about his band’s approach to the song list. “That’s the
strength of jazz music. You’re seeing something made right
onstage by the people playing it. What’s enjoyable for me is
that feeling of discovery.”  Steely Dan  A saxophone player since age 10, Potter’s star began to
rise in his 20s as a sideman for  Steely Dan  and bassist Dave
Holland’s projects.  His profile grew when he formed the group Underground. With
the backing of power-drummer Nate Smith and keyboardist  Craig
Taborn  on the Fender Rhodes, Potter’s fierce, narrative solos
earned him comparisons to Michael Brecker, who died in 2007.
Like him, Potter’s technique is studied in jazz programs by
music students and his peers.  “I was always kind of in awe of him,” Potter said about
Brecker. “I wished in retrospect I had asked him more
questions.”  On “Sirens,” the pace is slow and introspective on songs
such as “Dawn (With Her Rosy Fingers)” and “Wine Dark Sea,”
named after two well-known Homeric epithets. Potter wonders how
the Greek poet would react to the songs.  “What I would really want is to hear Homer sing” his
epic, Potter said. “I guess they would have a string instrument
like a lyre, and it would be sung. I would like to have been
able to see the context in which these stories were told. How
many people were sitting around listening to it and what did the
melodies sound like?”  Muse highlights include Ryan Sutton on  dining , David
Shribman on  books .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Cole in  New York  at 
 pcole3@Bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 Mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  