-- SEC Said to Discuss Floating NAV for Money Funds With IRS
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n   a n d   D a v e   M i c h a e l s
-- 2013-03-07T14:50:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/sec-said-to-discuss-floating-nav-for-money-funds-with-irs.html
Staff of the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission have met with the Internal Revenue Service
to discuss tax implications if money-market mutual funds were to
adopt a floating share price, two people familiar with the talks
said.  Discussions have centered on the tax treatment of small
gains and losses for investors in funds, said the people, who
asked not to be named because the talks weren’t public. IRS
officials have told the securities regulator that they don’t
have much flexibility to interpret current tax law, one of the
people said.  The discussions suggest SEC staffers are developing a more
detailed proposal to force money funds to adopt a floating share
price, a move the industry has said would destroy their appeal.
One such proposal prepared last year under the direction of
former SEC Chairman Mary Schapiro was rejected by three of her
four fellow commissioners in August, even before they were
presented with a formal draft.  “The tax treatment of a floating fund is one of the main
reservations expressed in comment letters” filed recently with
regulators by fund companies, Joan Swirsky, an attorney at
Philadelphia law firm Stradley, Ronon, Stevens & Young LLP, who
specializes in money-fund oversight, said in an interview.
“This will be a fully baked proposal by the time it comes
out.”  John Nester , a spokesman for the SEC, declined to comment.  Schapiro’s Plan  Regulators have worked to impose tighter restrictions on
money funds since the September 2008 collapse of the $62.5
billion Reserve Primary Fund. Its failure, caused by losses on
debt issued by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., triggered a wider
run on money funds that helped freeze global credit markets.  Schapiro’s plan aimed to make funds less susceptible to
runs and better able to absorb losses. It would have offered
funds a choice of replacing their fixed $1 share price with a
floating price that reflects the market value of holdings, or
creating capital reserves and restricting redemptions.  Following the rejection, Schapiro appealed for help from
the Financial Stability Oversight Council, a super-panel of
regulators formed by the Dodd-Frank Act and headed by the
Treasury secretary. The council, whose job it is to identify
systemic financial threats, acted in November, pressuring the
SEC to revisit the issue and recommending several reform
options, including a floating share value and capital buffers.  Cash Status  Republican Commissioner Daniel M. Gallagher said in a Jan.
16 speech that SEC staff were preparing a rule-making proposal
he expected to see before the end of March.  “Forcing money-market funds to float their net asset value
has long been on the SEC’s menu of options for structural
changes,” Mike McNamee, a spokesman for the Investment Company
Institute, the fund industry’s Washington-based lobby group,
said in an e-mailed statement. “We continue to believe that
temporary ‘gates’ to halt redemptions from prime money-market
funds during times of market stress, with the option to impose
fees for investors seeking further redemptions, would better
address regulators’ concerns about redemption pressures.”  A floating share price may also create new accounting
challenges for investors, although they could be directly
addressed by the SEC, one of the people said. The agency has the
authority to set accounting standards.  The commission staff is grappling with concerns that a
money fund with a floating share value might not be considered a
cash equivalent, the person said. That could make them less
attractive to institutional investors and businesses that need
to hold a certain percentage of assets in cash. The SEC could
propose to clarify the cash status of money funds as part of a
new rule proposal, the person said.  Mary Jo White, President  Barack Obama ’s pick to chair the
SEC, is set to appear at a nominations hearing March 12 before
the Senate Banking Committee.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  