-- Serbian Government to Press Central Bank on Rates, Dinkic Says
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-03-06T14:14:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/serbian-government-to-press-central-bank-on-rates-dinkic-says.html
Serbia’s government will ask the
central bank to lower interest rates and manage the dinar’s
exchange rate to bolster economic growth and aid exporters,
Finance Minister  Mladjan Dinkic  said.  The government will hold talks with the central bank later
this month as it tries to pull the Balkan nation out of its
second recession in three years, Dinkic told reporters in
Belgrade today.  The Narodna Banka Srbije raised its  one-week repurchase
rate  eight times in nine months between June and February by a
total of 225 basis points, or 2.25 percentage points, to 11.75
percent, to bring  Europe ’s second-highest inflation rate back to
its target band. The increases have helped boost the dinar 5.8
percent against the euro since July 27, when Prime Minister
 Ivica Dacic ’s Cabinet took office.  “It’s impossible to develop the economy with such high
interest rates,” Dinkic said. The government should ensure that
the dinar rate “works for exporters” and see “how to lower
interest rates through a cut in the central bank’s benchmark
rate. Those are the two areas where the National Bank of Serbia
can help.” Dinkic said.  The Cabinet will consider fiscal measures for growth and
exports, which are targeted to grow 25 percent this year, Dinkic
said.  Slowing Inflation  “Considering that inflation has been slowing, the central
bank is the one to think about lowering its  interest rate , which
would lead to a drop in lending rates,” Dinkic said after
meeting entrepreneurs to discuss state aid.  The central bank launched inflation targeting in 2006,
relying on a managed float for the dinar to keep inflation under
control. The bank needs to bring inflation down from 12.8
percent in January to 4 percent plus or minus 1.5 percentage
points by the end of 2013.  Dinkic dismissed opposition calls for a fixed  exchange-rate 
regime because “Serbia already runs a huge foreign trade
deficit and a fixed rate would mean higher imports and thus an
even wider trade deficit and enormous risk.”  The exchange rate has been “an export-boosting instrument
in all fast-growing economies,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  