-- Sheryl Sandberg’s ‘Lean In’ Circles Can Fix Our Politics
-- B y   D a n   S c h n u r
-- 2013-03-06T17:00:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/sheryl-sandberg-s-lean-in-circles-can-fix-our-politics.html
Most first-time candidates for
elective office learn quickly that  political messaging  is a lot
like the old playground game of  Red Rover .  Your opponents don’t bother to try to break through between
the two strongest members of your team. Rather, they zero in on
the smallest and weakest links in your chain and do everything
they can to force the most vulnerable among you to divide.  Similarly, a politician can deliver an otherwise flawless
message marred only by one inconsistency, misstep or incomplete
thought, and the full force of her adversaries will be unleashed
on that one weakness.  Whether or not Sheryl Sandberg, the chief operating officer
of  Facebook Inc. (FB) , eventually decides to run for political
office, she has learned over the past week or two what an
unforgiving world she might face if she ever hits the campaign
trail. In the days before the publication of  a book  based on a
seemingly uncontroversial notion that women can empower
themselves for the better, Sandberg’s apparently irredeemable
flaws of professional achievement and financial prosperity have
led a battalion of critics to assault her for a perceived
inability to understand the challenges of women less successful
than herself.  What’s been lost in the gender class warfare that
Sandberg’s book has engendered is the idea that encouraging
women (or men) to take on the challenges of the 21st century
workplace with more preparation, confidence and organization
seems like a fairly  reasonable argument  to make.  Wealth Effect  Rational people can disagree on whether “Lean In”
networking groups are the best way to accomplish these goals.
But there’s no evidence that Peter Drucker or  Spencer Johnson 
ever faced this type of backlash when they ventured to offer
advice on the best paths toward professional success.  As  Mitt Romney  and John Kerry will tell you, being rich and
out of touch isn’t the biographical template for a winning
political campaign. On the other hand, almost half the members
of the current Congress are millionaires, which suggests that
the populist push-back that Sandberg is facing isn’t an
electoral disqualifier in itself.  Yet first impressions matter, so the challenge for
Sandberg, if she ever considers hitting the campaign trail, is
how to salvage what should have been a public-relations triumph
but has devolved into mixed-message baggage at best.  To be fair, Sandberg has already devoted great time and
effort to acknowledging that her circumstances are different
from those of most women in the workplace. If she ever considers
becoming a political candidate, she would have to show voters
that her wealth doesn’t disqualify her from understanding their
challenges.  If she prepares for the inevitable onslaught of a campaign,
her self-deprecation would have to be augmented by an echo
chamber of middle class and working-class women who can testify
to the benefits of the “Lean In” approach.  Politicians of both sexes regularly appear in public with
teachers, firefighters, small-business owners and immigrants to
borrow biographical credibility to support their respective
policy proposals. Presidents from Ronald Reagan to  Barack Obama 
have filled the galleries for their  State of the Union  addresses
with everyday Americans whose very everydayness lends legitimacy
to that president’s agenda.  An  army  of Lean In Circlers could provide Candidate
Sandberg with the evidence she would need to demonstrate that
she can work with those voters who don’t happen to be Harvard
graduates and affluent technology executives.  Smarter Organizing  In many ways, the worst may be past for Sandberg. Although
her critics in the business biosphere may be dismissive of the
concept of small-group coordination and mutual support, the same
approach is ideally suited to the world of politics. The last
two presidential elections have demonstrated that the age-old
ideas of community organizing can be  updated  and upgraded for
even greater effectiveness in a social-networking era.  At a time when voters are openly disdainful of their
elected representatives and feel more disconnected from the
political oligarchy than ever before, the most effective leaders
in both parties are those who can foster a sense of connection
and belonging through volunteer-driven, community-based
movements.  A nontraditional candidate who teaches her followers not to
wait for marching orders from Washington but to organize into
small, interconnected groups across a city, a state or a country
may just represent a necessary upgrade in our sclerotic system
of politics.  Perhaps the chief operating officer of the largest social
network on the planet isn’t such a bad person to take this
communications model to the next level. When the conversation in
Sandberg’s Lean In Circles shifts from  personal career 
advancement to political and social change, the result could
potentially be a transformation in the way voters participate in
the electoral process.  (Dan Schnur is director of the Jesse M. Unruh Institute of
Politics at the University of Southern California. He has worked
on four presidential campaigns and three campaigns for governor
of California. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Dan Schnur at  schnur@usc.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 