-- Baucus Demands Answers on Engineer Death in Singapore
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2013-03-06T22:48:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/singapore-ambassador-met-u-s-senator-on-engineer-s-death.html
U.S. Senator Max Baucus said he is
“nowhere close” to resolving his questions about the death of
an American research engineer in  Singapore .  Baucus, a Montana Democrat, met on March 5 with Singapore’s
ambassador to the U.S., Ashok Kumar Mirpuri, and said yesterday
he has more meetings scheduled. Baucus is probing the June 2012
death of Shane Todd, who worked at the Institute of
Microelectronics in Singapore, a unit of Singapore’s state-run
Agency for Science, Technology and Research.  “I want to get to the bottom of it, and I made that very
clear to him,” Baucus said in a brief interview in  Washington .
“And I’ll do what it takes to get to the bottom of it.”  Todd’s family, who live in Montana, had suggested in
reports including in the Financial Times that his death may be
tied to a project the institute was working on with China’s
Huawei Technologies Co.  According to the Financial Times, Singapore police said
that Todd had hanged himself in his apartment. Todd’s mother,
Mary, was quoted in the  article  saying that the state of the
apartment didn’t match the police description and that her son
had appeared to be in the middle of packing for his return home.  Mirpuri and Baucus met on the afternoon of March 5, the
Singapore Foreign Affairs Ministry said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday. The Straits Times earlier reported their scheduled
meeting.  Baucus, the chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, which
has jurisdiction over tax and trade policy, said he made his
point “as strong as I could” in the meeting.  The Federal Bureau of Investigation will assist Singapore
police. Huawei has denied working with the research institute on
the project the family suggested.  Todd’s father, Rick Todd, didn’t return a phone call to his
office in Marion,  Montana , or respond to an e-mail seeking
comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  