-- Soho China 2012 Underlying Profit Doubles as More Sales Booked
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-06T05:08:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/soho-china-2012-underlying-profit-doubles-as-more-sales-booked.html
Soho China Ltd. (410) , the biggest
developer in Beijing’s central business district, said 2012
underlying profit rose 1.4 times as more properties were
delivered during the year.  Profit excluding revaluations  climbed to 3.34 billion  yuan 
($537 million), from 1.42 billion yuan a year earlier, according
to a statement to the  Hong Kong  exchange. That compares with the
3.64 billion yuan median  estimate  of analysts surveyed by
 Bloomberg News . Revenue rose 1.7 times to 15.3 billion yuan.  Chief Executive Officer Zhang Xin last year steered the
company, which traditionally sold most of its projects, toward
what it called a build-and-hold model, away from a build-and-
sell model, to take advantage of more stable and predictable
rental income rather than sales proceeds.  “A good earnings result wouldn’t be a surprise simply
because of the low base figures last year, and they were able to
deliver more properties from previous years,” Philip Tse, a
Hong Kong-based property analyst at ICBC International Research
Ltd., who rates the company a sell, said before today’s release.
“But what worries investors is their strategy changing as
investment projects is not the model they used to be good at.”  Office rental growth in  China  will decelerate this year
because of the overall economic slowdown, according to property
broker Cushman & Wakefield Inc. Average rents for Beijing’s
grade-A offices increased by 0.4 percent in the fourth quarter
last year from the previous three-month period, signaling they
are approaching a mid-term peak after three years of rapid
growth, according to property broker Knight Frank LLP.  Acquisition Mode  Beijing-based Soho expects 2013 will be an attractive year
for acquisition opportunities and will focus on buying land and
projects in  Shanghai  and Beijing, Chairman  Pan Shiyi  said in
today’s statement.  “Despite the differences in the growth rates of the two
cities during various periods, the steady overall rise in both
markets laid a solid foundation for our new development model
and strategy,” he said. “In China, this solid foundation
exists only in Beijing and Shanghai and is not present in
second-tier cities.”  The company will reduce the retail exposure in its
portfolio in response to the growth of Internet shopping,
according to the statement. Retail facilities included in its
projects will mainly be so-called concept stores, it said.  Soho posted 9.47 billion yuan of contracted sales in 2012.
Developers are required to obtain permits from local governments
prior to selling properties.  Including property revaluations, net income rose 172
percent to 10.6 billion yuan, or 1.897 yuan a share, from 3.9
billion yuan, or a restated 0.716 yuan, a year earlier.  Soho shares jumped 5 percent to HK$6.12 as of 1:01 p.m. in
Hong Kong. The stock has lost 1.1 percent this year, compared
with the  Hang Seng Index (HSI) ’s 0.4 percent gain.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  