-- Sonos Does Double Duty for TV, Music: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2013-03-06T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/sonos-does-double-duty-for-tv-music-rich-jaroslovsky.html
Let’s face it, soundbars aren’t
exactly cutting-edge technology. They’re the things you buy at
Costco for $199 to make the lousy audio from your TV marginally
less lousy.  Then there’s the new  Sonos Playbar . It costs $699, sounds
good and works even better.  Known for its wireless multi-room sound systems, Sonos is
really more a technology company than an audio company. Its
Play:5 and Play:3 intelligent speakers can be used to create a
network throughout your home to stream music from computers,
mobile devices and online services like Spotify and  Pandora. (P)   Even better, each speaker can be playing something
different. So you might have classical music going in the living
room, rock in the family room and jazz downstairs, all
controlled via free, excellent apps for iPad, iPhone, Android
devices, Mac and Windows.  Until now, the only way to integrate TV into the mix was
through a $349 adapter attached to your own home-theater
equipment. The Playbar provides a simpler and more flexible
solution, particularly in cases where you’re still relying on
the set’s built-in, and probably inadequate, speakers.  The Playbar is a substantial piece of gear. It weighs 12
pounds, is three feet wide, and can be either laid flat on your
TV stand or mounted on the wall above or below the screen.
Inside the enclosure are nine amplified speakers, six midrange
and three tweeters.  Plug and Play  I put the Playbar in my home office, where I was still
using the internal speakers of a  Samsung (005930)  TV. The physical set-up
was a breeze: With the included cable, the Playbar connected
directly to the optical audio port on the TV. I plugged in the
power cable and was done.  From there, it took a few easy steps to shut down the TV’s
internal speakers and introduce the Sonos unit to the  Comcast (CMCSA) 
remote I use. The Playbar immediately recognized the remote,
which I could then use to control the volume; an infrared-signal
pass-through ensured that my other commands to the TV weren’t
blocked by the speaker itself.  The process is a little more involved -- and maybe a little
more expensive -- if you’re setting up a multi-room system for
the first time. In that case, you’ll either need to connect one
of your components directly to your router via Ethernet, or else
purchase Sonos’s $49  Bridge  adapter.  Excellent Performance  No soundbar is going to match a true home-theater system
for audio quality. But for what it is, the Playbar delivered
excellent performance. Voices were clear and sound effects
appropriately intense, and the bottom ranges were decent even
without a sub-woofer.  With enough money, you can also use the Playbar as the
centerpiece of a true, wireless 5:1 home theater by adding
Sonos’s $699 Sub and a pair of $299 Play:3 speakers for the rear
channels. I saw and heard it demonstrated -- my ears are still
ringing -- but didn’t try setting one up myself.  The best thing about the Playbar is that, once installed,
it acts as a full part of a Sonos network. So when the TV was
off, I was able to use it for music, which sounded about as good
as a one-box speaker system possibly can. I streamed songs
stored on an iPad, iPhone and the iTunes library on an iMac, as
well as over the Internet from  Spotify .  When the TV is on, you’re able to move its audio to other
Sonos speakers around the house. If I had a game on in the
office but had to go upstairs, I was able to toss the play-by-
play onto the living-room speaker.  The biggest drawback to the Sonos system is the expense.
While the components don’t seem excessively priced individually,
the total jumps as you add more rooms; except for the Play:3,
Sonos gear is too heavy to routinely lug with you around the
house.  Still, there’s value in the Sonos network that goes well
beyond the quality of the speakers. It isn’t just good sound --
it’s smart sound.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include Jason Harper on  cars  and Katya
Kazakina on  art .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Jaroslovsky in San Francisco at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .
On Twitter: www.twitter.com/richjaro.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 