-- Staples Falls After Profit Forecast Trails Estimates
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2013-03-06T21:19:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/staples-falls-after-profit-forecast-trails-estimates.html
Staples Inc. (SPLS) , the world’s largest
office-supplies chain, tumbled after forecasting annual profit
that was less than analysts estimated amid what the chief
executive officer called “a challenging sales environment.”  The shares slid 7.1 percent to $12.34 at the close in New
York, for the lowest price since Jan. 14. The Framingham,
Massachusetts-based company had gained 17 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with an 8 percent gain for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Staples and its rivals have faced more competition from the
likes of  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  as Americans increasingly shun big-box
stores for the convenience of the Web. Staples’ competitor
 Office Depot Inc. (ODP)  announced a deal last month to buy  OfficeMax
Inc. (OMX)  Staples’ same-store sales in  North America  fell 5 percent
and sank 9 percent in  Europe  during the fourth quarter, the
company said.  Annual profit from continuing operations for Staples, which
ended its previous fiscal year on Feb. 2, will be $1.30 to $1.35
a share, the company said today in a statement. Analysts
projected $1.44 a share, the average of 20 analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  The company considers North America its biggest opportunity
for sales growth this year while the “European economic
situation shows no sign of improving in 2013,” Staples CEO Ron Sargent said on a conference call today with analysts.  He declined to comment on what Office Depot’s pending
transaction would mean for Staples. If approved by the Federal
Trade Commission and shareholders, both companies are expected
to close hundreds of stores in the U.S.  Online Offerings  To improve its online unit, Staples, the world’s second-
largest e-commerce company by sales after Amazon, said it will
triple the items offered on its website to 300,000 from 100,000.
That will help boost online revenue at a high single-digit
percentage rate this year, compared with a single-digit rate for
the entire company.  The retailer said fourth-quarter net income fell 72 percent
to $78.1 million, or 12 cents a share, from $283.6 million, or
41 cents, a year earlier. Excluding some items, profit was 46
cents a share. Analysts  projected  45 cents, the average of 19
estimates.  Staples plans to continue to reduce retail square footage
by downsizing current stores and closing others. It will also
debut a smaller store format this quarter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Orland in Chicago at 
 korland@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Townsend in  New York  at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  