-- Statoil Growth Plan in North America Doesn’t Include Arctic Oil
-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 2013-03-06T18:54:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/statoil-growth-plan-in-north-america-doesn-t-include-arctic-oil.html
Statoil ASA (STL) , one of a handful of
energy producers planning to drill in U.S. arctic waters off the
coast of  Alaska , doesn’t expect to produce crude in the region
before 2020, the company’s head of North American operations
said.  State-controlled Statoil isn’t counting on output from the
Alaskan arctic to meet its goal of producing the equivalent of
500,000 barrels a day of oil in  North America  by 2020, Bill Maloney, executive vice president of Statoil’s North American
exploration and production business, said today in an interview
taped for Bloomberg Television’s “Street Smart.”  “We put a pause on Alaska,” Maloney said in the interview
at the IHS CeraWeek energy conference in Houston today. “We
don’t count on any arctic production in the prognosis of
production.”  Royal Dutch Shell Plc. (RDSA)  abandoned plans to drill in the
region this year after one of the company’s two rigs ran aground
and it failed to get a U.S. permit in time for drilling season.
Statoil plans to await further results from Shell and may
postpone drilling until 2015, the company has said.  “I think we all agree it’s wise to learn from each
other,” Tim Dodson, Stavanger, Norway-based Statoil’s executive
vice president of exploration, said in an interview yesterday.
“It’s better to let time work for you rather than against
you.”  Statoil has developed positive relationships with U.S.
regulators as it plans to more than double its North American
production by 2020, Maloney said in the Bloomberg Television
interview. The company is producing an average of the equivalent
of 195,000 barrels a day of oil and natural gas in the  Gulf of
Mexico  and owns interests in onshore areas from North Dakota to
 Pennsylvania , Maloney said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  