-- Strauss-Kahn Called ‘Picasso of Pigs,’ Eyelash Fetishist
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2013-03-06T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/strauss-kahn-called-picasso-of-pigs-eyelash-fetishist.html
Poor  Dominique Strauss-Kahn . Fending
off an army of district attorneys, examining courts and lawyers
is bad enough.  Being considered fair game by playwrights and novelists may
be even worse.  DSK, as he is generally called, ignored the two plays that
pretended to re-enact his fateful encounter at  New York ’s
Sofitel hotel with a maid on Paris stages. Both productions
disappeared after short runs.  “Belle et Bete” (Beauty and Beast) is harder to shrug off.
It’s a kiss-and-tell story, an odd mix of fact and fiction by
Marcela Iacub, a 48-year-old journalist and jurist who had a
seven-month affair with the disgraced International Monetary
Fund boss in 2012.  It’s not his celebrity, she says, that impressed her: “You
were old, you were fat, you were short, and you were ugly,” she
writes in the opening line of the book. What fascinated her was
his sexual imagination, his inner “pig,” which she praises as
the redeeming part of an otherwise unattractive character.  The word pig appears on virtually every page of the book.
She also refers to him variously as the “King of Pigs,” and the
“Picasso of Pigs.”  In 12 short chapters, Iacub gives her embroidered version
of their affair from beginning to end.  First Date  The two first met when Strauss-Kahn got in touch after she
had defended him against the accusation of rape in another book
titled “Une Societe de Violeurs?” (A Society of Rapists?) He
invited her to lunch and they immediately went to bed.  Their sex, she says, was not of the genital kind. He got
off licking the mascara from her eyelashes, pushing a thumb into
her mouth or, in a threesome with a male doctor friend of his,
on covering her hands with marmalade and watching the doctor
lick them clean.  She claims to have ended the affair, after he had bitten
off her left ear.  In an interview with the  Nouvel Observateur  Magazine,
published on Feb. 21, Iacub said that the sex scenes in the book
are fantasies (there was no mention of the damaged ear).
“Psychologically, emotionally, intellectually, however, they are
true,” she says. “The truth is not the reality.”  Strauss-Kahn was not amused. He sued for invasion of
privacy and won a partial victory. Her publisher has to pay
50,000 euros in damages; the Nouvel Observateur, which published
excerpts, 25,000 euros.  Privacy Invasion  Though the court refused to ban the book, it compelled the
publisher to place an insert on page one stating that the book
violates Strauss-Kahn’s right to privacy.  In Paris, the book was greeted with unanimous disgust. Even
Jean Daniel, founder of the Nouvel Observateur, distanced
himself from his own paper and dismissed the book as an act of
revenge by a jealous woman.  Iacub makes no secret of her hatred for  Anne Sinclair ,
Strauss-Kahn’s rich wife, whom she accuses of having treated him
as her “poodle.” Sinclair, she says, dropped her husband because
she feared for her standing in society, not because of his
extramarital affairs.  Yasmina Reza, the author of “Art” and other witty plays,
demonstrates that one can draw on a previous liaison with more
elegance.  In “Heureux les Heureux” (Happy the Happy), Reza’s new
novel, Chantal is the mistress of Jacques, the short, neckless
Vice-Minister of Tourism and Trade. To her surprise, Therese,
Jacques’s wife, wants to meet her in a cafe.  Electronic Threesome  Instead of making a scene, Therese coolly informs her rival
that she is not Jacques’s only love interest: His oh-so-exciting
e-mails are sent, without changing a comma, to three different
ladies.  In an article published on Jan. 3 by the Nouvel
Observateur, Reza simply said “It’s the truth” in reference to
revelations in a book by Raphaelle Bacque and Ariane Chemin that
she had an affair with Strauss-Kahn and had dedicated her book,
“The Dawn, the Evening or the Night,” to him. (The dedication
was to “G,” his middle initial.) Yet she insists that any
resemblance of her characters to persons living or dead is
purely coincidental.  “Belle et Bete” is published by Stock (121 pages, 13.50
euros). “Heureux les Heureux” is published by Flammarion (189
pages, 18 euros).  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  George Walden  on books,  Ryan Sutton 
on food and  Amanda Gordon’s  Scene Last Night.  To contact the writer of this review:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at  mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 