-- Swatch Chief Hayek Skeptical That Watch Could Replace an IPhone
-- B y   T h o m a s   M u l i e r
-- 2013-03-06T13:21:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/swatch-chief-hayek-skeptical-that-watch-could-replace-an-iphone.html
Swatch Group AG (UHR)  Chief Executive
Officer Nick Hayek said he’s skeptical that an interactive watch
could replace an iPhone, talking down the prospects for a
project that  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  has hinted it’s working on.  “Personally, I don’t believe it’s the next revolution,”
the chief of the largest Swiss watchmaker said at a press
conference on annual results in Grenchen, Switzerland.
“Replacing an iPhone with an interactive terminal on your wrist
is difficult. You can’t have an immense display.”  In addition to size limiting the amount of information that
can be shown, consumers often buy watches as a jewelry item and
like to change them, Hayek said. Apple has a team of about 100
product designers working on a wristwatch-like device that may
perform some of the tasks now handled by the iPhone and iPad,
people familiar with the company’s plans said last month.  Swatch, which owns the Tissot and Omega brands, has
explored ways of making watches with interactive functions for
years, attempting to sell a watch that served as a mobile phone
early last decade. It later formed a 2004 alliance with
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  on Swatch Paparazzi watches, which allowed
consumers to receive personalized information, including news,
sports, weather, horoscopes and stock quotes.  Swatch has had contact with Apple over many years about
materials for products and so-called energy harvesting
technology that would generate energy from physical movement,
Hayek said today. The Swiss company said in 2011 it obtained a
license to use alloys made by  Liquidmetal Technologies Inc. (LQMT)  in
watches, gaining access to metal that’s moldable like plastic.
Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , also made a patent-
licensing agreement with Liquidmetal.  Bluetooth Technology  The Swatch and Tissot brands will keep developing
timepieces with more interactive features, such as Bluetooth
technology, Hayek said. The Swatch brand is planning a press
conference on new products at the Baselworld watch fair that
starts at the end of next month. Tissot’s T-Touch line of
watches can serve as a compass and allows consumers to measure
their altitude and time diving expeditions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Mulier in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  