-- U.A.E Yacht Builder Gulf Craft May IPO in 2-3 Years on Recovery
-- B y   M a h e r   C h m a y t e l l i
-- 2013-03-06T11:55:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/u-a-e-yacht-builder-gulf-craft-may-ipo-in-2-3-years-on-recovery.html
Gulf Craft LLC , a United Arab
Emirates builder of motorboats and yachts, may sell shares in
two to three years amid a recovery in the Persian Gulf nation’s
equity markets, Chief Operating Officer Erwin Bamps said.  An initial public offering “will be on the horizon
probably in two, three years,” Bamps said in an interview at
the Dubai International Boat Show today. “In the meantime, we
will expand our line of products, gain market share and build
value in the brand and the corporate identity.”  Arab uprisings that ousted leaders in  Egypt  and  Tunisia  and
 Europe ’s debt crisis slowed regional share sales the past two
years. Money raised from IPOs in the  Middle East  and North
Africa reached $2 billion in 2012, according to Ernst & Young
International. In 2008, IPOs worth more than $80 billion were
announced, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. U.A.E. stock
markets are recovering, with Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  rising 16
percent in January, the best start to a year on record.  The stocks rally is being buttressed by a recovery in
Dubai, whose economy probably expanded 5 percent in 2012, the
fastest pace since 2007, according to government estimates.
Passenger traffic through the emirate’s airport rose 13 percent
last year, making it the world’s third-busiest, according to
Dubai Airports. The city’s property market is starting to
recover in prime locations after prices fell 65 percent from a
peak in 2008.  Revenue Growth  Revenue at Gulf Craft, whose founders specialized in
building wooden dhows, grew 20 percent in 2012, Bamps said. The
company may disclose financial results to the public in a year
as it gears up for the potential IPO, he said.  Gulf Craft builds about 400 boats a year and relies on its
own income to fund operations and expansion, according to Bamps.
Last year, it invested 12 million dirhams ($3.3 million) on new
machinery and products, Bamps said.  The U.A.E., the second-biggest Arab economy, has three
equities bourses, Nasdaq Dubai, Dubai Financial Market and Abu
Dhabi Securities Exchange. Gulf Craft, which hasn’t decided
where it may list its shares, initially expressed interest in an
IPO in 2006, before the onset of the global credit crisis
stalled the plan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maher Chmaytelli in Dubai at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  