-- U.K. Gives Syrian Rebels Armored Cars Amid Refugee Flood
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2013-03-06T14:59:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/u-k-gives-syrian-rebels-armored-cars-amid-refugee-flood.html
The U.K. announced new types of aid
for  Syria ’s opposition, including armored vehicles and body
armor, as the number of refugees fleeing the civil war in Syria
for neighboring countries reached 1 million.  “We cannot look the other way while international law and
human rights are flouted,” Foreign Secretary  William Hague  told
Parliament in  London  today. “We cannot step back from a crisis
that could destabilize the heart of the  Middle East , and it
would be the height of irresponsibility to ignore potential
threats to our own security.”  The U.K. will provide $20 million in equipment, training
and support for the opposition, Hague said. The four-wheel-drive
armored vehicles are intended to allow opposition leaders to
move around more freely. Other help will include assistance in
restoring power and water supplies, and to collect and
incinerate waste to stem disease.  Syria’s civil war has evolved along largely sectarian
lines, with many in the Sunni majority supporting the rebels and
much of the Shiite Muslim, Christian and Alawite minorities
backing President Bashar Al-Assad. The two-year-old conflict has
killed about 70,000 people.  The increase in the number of refugees fleeing Syria for
Lebanon, Jordan,  Turkey  and other countries was announced today
by United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees  Antonio Guterres .  ‘Full-Scale Disaster’  “With a million people in flight, millions more displaced
internally, and thousands of people continuing to cross the
border every day, Syria is spiraling toward full-scale
disaster,” Guterres said today in a  statement . “This tragedy
has to be stopped.”  The UNHCR is adjusting a December plan to deal with a
projected 1.1 million refugees by June, after more than 400,000
people fled Syria since the beginning of this year. That plan is
only 25 percent funded, the agency said.  Hague said Britain is increasingly concerned that Assad may
use chemical weapons against rebel forces. The U.K. is to supply
kits to allow those in the country to test whether such weapons
have been used.  “If a political solution to the crisis in Syria is not
found and the conflict continues, we and the rest of the
European Union will have to be ready to move further, and we
should not rule out any option for saving lives,” the foreign
secretary told lawmakers. “Our policy cannot be static nor our
position indifferent.”  U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  indicated yesterday that
he doesn’t anticipate a shift in policy to permit the sending of
weapons to the Syrian rebels.  “That’s not my job to do,” he said in an interview with
ABC News in Doha, the last stop on a trip to  Europe  and the
Mideast. “That’s the president of the  United States ’ decision,
and I don’t think this is a president who ever takes any option
off the table. But for the moment, he feels like what we’re
doing is the right policy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Eddie Buckle at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net  