-- U.K. Tells Payday Lenders to Follow Rules or Lose License
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-03-06T16:52:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/u-k-tells-payday-lenders-to-follow-rules-or-lose-their-license.html
U.K. regulators told 50 sub-prime
lenders they have 12 weeks to change business practices
described as causing “misery and hardship” for borrowers too
poor to afford short-term loans.  Companies that offer so-called payday loans risk losing
their licenses if they don’t meet regulators’ expectations, the
 Office of Fair Trading   said today  on its website. It may also
refer the industry to the British antitrust regulator after
finding lenders competed on speed and easy access, rather than
price. The OFT didn’t name any individual companies.  The offending firms didn’t check whether customers could
afford the loans before making them or rolling them over, didn’t
explain how payments would be collected and used “aggressive”
debt collection methods, the OFT said. Payday lenders such as
London-based Wonga.com Ltd. charge high  interest rates  for small
cash sums over shorter periods than a  bank loan . The industry’s
loans cost an average of 25 pounds ($37.70) per 100 pounds for
30 days, the OFT said.  “We have found fundamental problems with the way the
payday market works and widespread breaches of the law and
regulations, causing misery and hardship for many borrowers,”
OFT Chief Executive Officer Clive Maxwell said in the statement.  ‘Vulnerable’ Clients  Customers are often those whose credit rating bars them
from using banks or mutual lenders and are “frequently in a
vulnerable financial position,” the OFT said today. The market
has more than doubled since 2009 to as much as 2.2 billion
pounds, it said.  “We are digesting the full import of the report at the
moment and will await more specific information,” Patrick
Barrow, a spokesman for  PaydayUK , a unit of Berwyn,
Pennsylvania-based  DFC Global Corp. (DLLR) , said by phone.  Brian Corke, a spokesman for the British Cheque Cashers
Association, declined to comment on the OFT report and said the
trade group provides no public data on the names or size of its
members. A Wonga.com spokeswoman declined to comment.  “This is the end of a yearlong review, and we will take
time to review the issues that have been raised,” Russell Hamblin-Boone, CEO of the Consumer Finance Association, said in
a statement. “We recognize there are concerns about the
industry. However, these reports are a snapshot in time and work
is already under way.”  Requests for comment from the Consumer Credit Trade
Association and the Finance & Leasing Association weren’t
returned. The three groups also represent payday lenders.  The industry has come under fire from bankruptcy
professionals and consumer groups such as  Which? , which says the
firms grant loans to people who can’t afford them.  ‘Excessive Charges’  “Which? research has repeatedly found poor affordability
checks and excessive charges that push consumers into a vicious
cycle of debt,” Richard Lloyd, executive director for the
consumer advocacy group, said in a statement. “A referral of
the payday market to the  Competition Commission  to consider its
future is a good move, but there must also be no delay in taking
immediate action to protect people in difficulty today.”  Complaints to the Financial Ombudsman Service, which
mediates between financial companies and clients, rose to 387 in
the first three quarters of the 2012-2013 fiscal year from 33 in
2009-2010, the OFT said. Five percent of loans are refinanced
four or more times, it said. Loans refinanced that often provide
the firms with 19 percent of their revenue, it said.  “If we do not see rapid, significant improvements by the
50 lenders we inspected, they risk their licenses being
removed,” Maxwell said. “Payday lending is a top enforcement
priority for the OFT.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in  London  at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  