-- U.K. Still Mulling Plain Cigarette Packaging, Official Says
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2013-03-06T12:18:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/u-k-still-mulling-plain-cigarette-packaging-official-says-1-.html
The U.K. government is still
considering proposals to make plain packaging compulsory for
tobacco products, Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s spokesman said
after the Guardian reported that the country will follow
Australia in introducing such a law as early as May.  Imperial Tobacco Group Plc (IMT) , Europe’s second-biggest tobacco
company, fell as much as 2.8 percent in London today after the
newspaper also said the U.K. plans to ban smoking in cars
carrying anyone under the age of 16.  “A process of consultation has been going on,” Jean- Christophe Gray told reporters in London today. “No decisions
have yet been taken. On the issue around smoking in cars, there
are no plans to change policy in that direction.”  Tobacco companies  are facing stricter government
restrictions on smoking, with  New Zealand  announcing last month
that it would follow Australia by forcing cigarette makers to
sell their products in plain packages.  A similar move in the U.K. “isn’t totally unexpected and
the implementation lead time will be long,” said  Martin Deboo ,
an analyst at Investec in London. “Even if it is announced in
May, the law may not come into force until 2015 or 2016.”  The 2.8 percent drop in Imperial shares was the most since
Jan. 30, when the company forecast lower first-half profit. They
were down 1.4 percent at 2,409 pence as of 12:02 p.m. Rival
 British American Tobacco Plc (BATS)  fell as much as 1.6 percent.  Warning Photos  A move to plain packaging in the U.K. “will hurt Imperial
more than BAT,” Deboo said. Imperial has 13 percent of tobacco
sales and almost 20 percent of profit in the U.K., while BAT
generates only 1 percent of revenue in the country, he said.  In Australia, cigarette packets have since Dec. 1 contained
warnings that include photos of a gangrenous limb and a cancer
victim. All cigarettes in Australia must be sold in uniform
packs, with the brand name relegated to the bottom quarter of
the package on a drab brown background. The law is being
challenged at the  World Trade Organization  and at arbitration.  Still, plain packaging “has so far had a limited effect on
consumption in Australia,” said  Erik Bloomquist , an analyst at
Berenberg Bank in London. “People will continue to smoke
regardless of how unpleasant the pack is to look at.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  