-- U.K. House Prices Rise 0.5% as Market Strengthens, Halifax Says
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-03-06T08:19:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/u-k-house-prices-rise-0-5-as-market-strengthens-halifax-says.html
U.K.  house prices  rose in February,
according to Halifax, which said the market is improving and
values may continue to increase this year.  Prices increased 0.5 percent from the previous month to an
average 163,600 pounds ($247,200), the mortgage unit of Lloyds
Banking Group Plc said in a statement in London today. From a
year earlier, values gained 2.1 percent.  “This increase in both  house prices  and activity in recent
months is consistent with evidence of some improvement in market
conditions,” said  Martin Ellis , a Halifax economist. “We
expect to see a national increase in house prices over the
course of 2013. Weak income growth and continuing below-trend
economic growth, however, are likely to remain significant
constraints on housing demand.”  While both  Nationwide Building Society  and Hometrack Ltd.
also reported increases in house prices in February, Nationwide
said the property recovery is “likely to be gradual.” U.K.
mortgage approvals fell in January, while accelerating inflation
is squeezing consumers’ budgets.  In the three months through February, home values were up
1.9 percent compared with the previous quarter, Halifax said.  Bank of England  officials begin their monthly two-day
policy meeting in London today, having signaled last month
they’re considering new measures to bolster the recovery. The
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey is for the Monetary
Policy Committee to leave its target for  bond purchases  at 375
billion pounds.  Britain’s economy shrank 0.3 percent in the  fourth quarter 
of 2012. Markit Economics said its gauges of services,
manufacturing and construction indicate the economy may grow 0.1
percent this quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  