-- U.K. Soccer Chief Battles for World Ban on Tevez-Type Transfers
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-03-06T23:01:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/u-k-soccer-chief-battles-for-world-ban-on-tevez-type-transfers.html
Premier League head Richard Scudamore wants the world soccer to follow his lead by banning
investment funds from buying shares in players, a $3 billion-a-
year market. His opponents say the plan won’t work.  The world’s richest soccer league was roiled in 2006 when
 London ’s West Ham United signed Carlos Tevez and Javier Mascherano, two Argentines whose transfer rights were wholly
owned by funds. The deal led to lawsuits, fines and a
controversy that still rages.  Funds buy the stakes in the hope of profiting from a share
of the transfer fee paid between clubs when players move.
Scudamore said the agreements threaten the sport’s integrity and
could be scrapped worldwide within five years.  “A player in my view is not indentured slavery,” the 53-
year-old chief executive officer said in an interview. “The
registration of that player has been bought for the benefit of
that club, and then that club either works that player to the
end of his useful life, like any other asset, or that player is
transferred.”  The former Thomson Corp. senior vice-president persuaded
the Premier League to outlaw the practice in 2008 and has
lobbied world body FIFA to do likewise. A key  FIFA  committee
unanimously agreed to do so, although it has no authority to
change the regulations, something only the organization’s
executive can do.  FIFA says it’s evaluating the “complex matter.” European
governing body UEFA has said that if FIFA fails to take action
it will introduce its own ban. Gianni Infantino, general
secretary, said in an interview that such funds could be used
for money-laundering and that some are under investigation.  TV Contracts  Scudamore’s importance in the world game has grown with
that of his league, which is watched in more than 200 countries.
That’s allowed it to negotiate a global television contract
worth about $2.5 billion a year from next season.  The investment-fund issue has split the sport. While UEFA
may ban it, and France and  Poland  have already done so, it’s
accepted in southern Europe and South America. There, television
deals are worth a fraction of the Premier League’s and the teams
rely on selling players’ transfer rights for their cash flow.  Eighteen-time Portuguese champion Sporting Lisbon has sold
stakes in all but four of its 28-member roster. In  Brazil , 90
percent of players in the country’s top league “are somehow
linked to investors,” says Jochen Loesch, president of
international business at Traffic Sports, which has invested
more than $75 million in the rights of about 60 players since it
was established in 2007.  Tax Havens  Loesch’s company is one of about a dozen known to be
involved in player funds. Several are based offshore in tax
havens like  Bermuda , the British Virgin Islands and Jersey.  Scudamore’s plan is doomed, he said.  “We are zero worried,” Loesch said about the risk of a
global ban. “This rule, if it comes, will be widely ignored by
the market.”  Loesch said funds lose money on some players, so they have
to invest in a “big portfolio.”  “We have huge downside: if the player won’t be sold we
don’t get a penny,” he said. “With the top-third, you will
make so much money that they will compensate the losses of the
lower third.”  Legal Tests?  The practice is misunderstood and is similar to a bank
loan, Loesch said, adding that a court would overturn a ban.
Scudamore said sport’s special status in European law offers
legal protection.  The issue is being looked at as new financial controls are
set up in  Europe . Clubs face penalties from 2014 if their
spending outstrips income, limiting how much billionaire owners
such as those at the Premier League’s Manchester City and
Chelsea can spend on new players. Scudamore said it’s
contradictory to curtail the ability of wealthy owners to fund
clubs and yet allow “this opaque third-party ownership.”  West Ham pleaded guilty in 2007 to league charges that it
concealed an agreement that gave control of Tevez and Mascherano
to two offshore companies, leading to an English record fine of
5.5 million pounds ($8.3 million).  “It kicked off with a huge act of bad faith by West Ham
United, who lied to us,” Scudamore said, describing the episode
as the worst in his 14 years at the league.  The Hammers are still owe Sheffield United part of 20
million pounds in compensation after the Blades argued Tevez’s
seven goals in the last 10 games helped West Ham stay in the top
league at their expense. Neil Warnock, Sheffield United’s
manager at the time, called for Scudamore’s resignation.  Ownership?  Some funds’ opacity makes it difficult for regulators to
trace their backers. Five years after Tevez’s move it emerged
that now-deceased Georgian billionaire Arkady Patarkatsishvili
owned the company that held the player’s transfer rights.  “In Europe, clubs don’t want to talk about it,” Loesch
said. “They do it but they don’t want to talk about.”  Pini Zahavi, an Israeli who started out as an agent before
moving into player investment, said the Premier League has
double standards. He said the practice of teams loaning players
to others in the league is a type of third-party ownership.  “There are some contradictions,” Scudamore said. “All
these things test the limits of integrity. Loans certainly do. I
wouldn’t have them, the clubs want them and it’s their
constitutional right.”  Remaining Issues  Striker Tevez and midfielder Mascherano have since moved on
and are now at Manchester City and Barcelona, respectively, but
the issue remains. Whatever the arguments, Scudamore said he’ll
never be convinced that third-party investors in players’
transfer rights could ever benefit soccer.  “The fact we still bear the scars from Tevez, Mascherano
is not in any way driving us to this conclusion,” he said. “I
think the whole thing has an integrity issue, a reputational
issue, an economic issue and we just fundamentally think it’s
wrong.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in the London newsroom on  at
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 