-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Dallas District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2013-03-06T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-dallas-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s eleventh District-- Dallas .  The Eleventh District economy expanded at a moderate pace
over the past six weeks. Reports on manufacturing activity were
mixed. Retail sales were flat to up slightly, while automobile
dealers noted a seasonal slowdown in sales. In the nonfinancial
services sector, legal and accounting demand increased, and
reports from staffing firms were mixed. Rail and cargo firms
said activity weakened, but demand was above year-earlier
levels. Airlines said passenger demand was flat to up since the
last report. Housing demand remained strong and commercial real
estate activity improved. Lenders noted flat to moderate growth
in loan demand, and activity in the energy sector remained at
high levels. Prices remained stable overall, and there were
limited reports of wage pressure. Employment levels were steady
to up.  Prices  Most responding firms noted stable prices, although some
transportation service contacts said costs were up due to higher
fuel prices. High tech contacts noted downward pressure on
prices, particularly for memory devices. Oil prices increased
since the last report. The price of WTI averaged over $95 per
barrel over the past six weeks. Natural gas prices remained
depressed, while gasoline and diesel prices increased.  Labor Market  Employment held steady or increased at most firms.
Accounting firms said the pace of hiring picked up temporarily
as firms entered the busy tax season, but that long-term hiring
remained moderate. Legal firms said employment increased, and
some noted robust hiring activity for experienced corporate,
energy and intellectual property lawyers. One respondent in the
staffing industry noted a tight market for skilled workers. Wage
pressures remained mostly subdued, although a few firms noted
slight upward pressure on compensation for skilled workers.  Manufacturing  Construction-related manufacturers’ reports were mixed.
Lumber producers noted slow seasonal demand, while sales of
cement and related products continued to increase due to solid
residential building activity. Outlooks were generally more
optimistic than the last report. Demand for fabricated metals
rose sharply over the reporting period due to an increase in new
private projects. Overall, primary metals producers noted slow
seasonal demand, but one contact said they had recently been
awarded a large project which would keep them busy for the next
three months.  High tech manufacturers said sales were flat to slightly
down. Contacts reported that demand for mobile devices softened
and sales of personal computers remained weak, but sales of
tablets and ultrabooks were growing. The outlook is for sales to
remain flat over the next several months but then to pick up
slightly during the second half of the year.  Demand for paper products was stable during the reporting
period, but contacts continued to be cautious in their outlooks
due to uncertainty regarding fiscal issues. Demand for food
products was better than expected, and the outlook was positive
among food contacts.  Reports from transportation manufacturing contacts were
mixed. Sales of recreational vehicles declined, partly as a
result of seasonal trends, and outlooks remained uncertain.
Demand for aviation equipment increased because of new work from
one large project, but the outlook was somewhat cautious because
of uncertainties regarding fiscal issues.  Petrochemicals producers said Gulf Coast chemical
production was up compared with last year across most product
categories. Contacts said refinery operating rates declined and
margins increased during the reporting period, partly due to
normal seasonal patterns.  Retail Sales  Retail sales were flat to up slightly since the last
report. According to two national retailers,  Texas  continued to
outperform the nation, albeit by a small margin. Inventories
were at desired levels. Outlooks were optimistic, with contacts
expecting steady improvement through the first quarter and low-
to mid-single digit increases in 2013 over 2012.  Automobile dealers noted a seasonal slowdown in sales, but
demand is up slightly year-over-year. Inventories were at
adequate levels, although dealerships have started to build up
inventories for the spring selling season. Contacts were
optimistic in their outlooks; they expect demand to pick-up in
the first quarter and 2013 to be a good year.  Nonfinancial Services  Reports from staffing firms were mixed. One contact noted
sharp declines in demand for services across the board, while
another reported stellar demand that broke direct- hiring
records. Outlooks were cautious. Some contacts noted concern
that client companies are hiring the absolute minimum to get by
due to uncertainty about the Affordable Care Act.  Demand for accounting services picked up since the last
report, driven by audit and tax activity. Contacts expect demand
to remain strong for the next few months. Legal firms reported
flat to modest growth in demand with strength coming from real
estate and energy-related services and weakness coming from a
lack of litigation work. Outlooks were mostly optimistic.  Several transportation service firms said demand weakened
since the last report, but overall outlooks were improved.
Intermodal cargo and air cargo volumes edged down since the last
report, but contacts said they were level or above those from a
year ago. Railroad contacts said cargo volumes were down, with
coal continuing to be a weak spot. Petroleum shipments were up
strongly, however and increases in volumes of lumber and wood
remained healthy. Shipping companies said small- parcel cargo
volumes grew strongly, propelled by retail trade. Airline
contacts noted passenger demand was flat to slightly up. One
contact said business travelers remained price sensitive and
continued to buy advance-purchase discount fares. Outlooks were
mixed.  Construction and Real Estate  Contacts in the single-family housing sector said new and
existing home demand remained strong since the last report.
Realtors noted that extremely low inventories were leading to
price increases. Apartment demand growth continues to ease from
last year, but contacts remain optimistic, expecting occupancies
to remain high despite new construction.  Demand for commercial space remained moderate since the
last report. Contacts said real estate investment activity
continues to improve, and most remain optimistic in their
outlooks.  Financial Services  Financial institutions reported mixed loan demand. Larger
institutions noted flat loan demand, while community banks
reported moderate loan growth. Consumer lending activity
increased modestly, while real estate loan demand was limited.
Energy activity in the Eagle Ford shale continued to drive
lending activity in San Antonio, Houston and the surrounding
areas. Loan pricing remained very competitive. Loan quality
continued to improve, and borrowers were paying off their loans
ahead of schedule. Deposits and deposit rates were flat to
slightly down. Outlooks were unchanged, but there is some
optimism among contacts that loan demand will increase slightly
in the near term.  Energy  Activity remained at high levels, and respondents at
energy-related service firms noted that the number of active
drilling rigs seems to have bottomed out. Margins for services
particularly pressure pumping remained tight, but contacts
reported slight easing in pricing pressures. Contacts said
expectations for average drilling activity in 2013 are being
revised up, with most of the improvement expected to occur in
the second half of the year.  Agriculture  The drought was the main concern over the reporting period.
Feed costs remained high and cattle supplies were tight because
of the drought, while beef prices and demand both declined
seasonally. Cotton prices rallied since the last report, and
cotton exports were up slightly. In contrast, corn and grain
sorghum prices declined modestly over the reporting period.
Grain exports were lower than expected.  SOURCE: Federal Reserve Board
 