-- U.S. Credit Swaps Hold; Fed Says Economic Growth at Modest Pace
-- B y   M a d h u r a   K a r n i k
-- 2013-03-06T20:55:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/u-s-company-credit-default-swaps-decline-to-lowest-in-two-years.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk held at about a five-month low after the  Federal Reserve 
said the economy was growing at a modest to moderate pace across
most of the country.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, added 0.3
basis point to a mid-price of 83.7 basis points as of 3:41 p.m.
in  New York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.
Yesterday, the measure closed at 83.3, the least since Sept. 14.  “The majority of districts reported modest improvements in
labor market conditions, although hiring plans were limited in
several districts,” the central bank said in its Beige Book
business survey, which is based on reports from the Fed’s 12
regional banks. “Residential real estate markets strengthened
in nearly all districts and home prices rose amid falling
inventories across much of the country.”  The anecdotal snapshot of the economy helps the  Federal
Open Market Committee  evaluate whether the labor market shows
signs of the substantial improvement it says would warrant
shrinking or halting $85 billion in monthly bond purchases. The
committee is scheduled to meet March 19-20.  “The main focus right now is on what the Fed is telling
the market,” rather than on economic data, Jon Duensing, head
of corporate credit at Smith Breeden Associates, said in a
telephone interview from Boulder,  Colorado . Investors are paying
attention to the Fed’s commitment to provide liquidity, he said.  Staples Risk  American private companies hired 198,000 workers last month
following a revised 215,000 gain in the prior month, data from
the Roseland, New Jersey-based ADP Research Institute showed.
The median forecast of 41 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
projected an increase of 170,000. A separate report from the
Commerce Department showed orders to U.S. factories fell in
January.  The credit-swaps index typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  The cost to protect  Staples Inc.’s (SPLS)  debt from default
increased after the world’s largest office-supplies chain
forecast annual profit that was less than analyst estimates.  Five-year credit-default swaps on the company’s debt
increased 20 basis points to 263 basis points as of 3:01 p.m. in
New York, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by
McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  Deere Bonds  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index added 1.8 basis point to 418.6 basis points,
Bloomberg prices show.  Deere & Co. (DE) , the world’s largest agricultural-equipment
maker, sold $1 billion of bonds through its finance unit in an
offering of fixed- and floating- rate securities.  The average relative yield on speculative-grade, or junk-
rated, debt fell 4.7 basis points to 492.4 basis points, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and less than BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Madhura Karnik in New York at 
 mkarnik@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  