-- U.S. Stock Funds Have First Withdrawals Before Dow Record
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2013-03-06T19:10:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/u-s-stock-funds-have-first-withdrawals-before-dow-record.html
Investors pulled money from mutual
funds that buy U.S. stocks for the first week this year, just
before the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  hit a record.  Domestic stock funds experienced redemptions of $1.13
billion in the week ended Feb. 27, according to the Washington-
based  Investment Company Institute . The funds had won deposits
in the previous seven weeks, ICI data show.  Last week’s redemptions underscore investors remain wary of
U.S. equities as lawmakers in Washington debate how to trim the
federal  budget deficit . Domestic stock funds suffered
withdrawals in each of the past six years, as fund managers
failed to protect clients from losses during the 2007 to 2009
financial crisis. Investors poured $18.56 billion into domestic
stocks funds in January, the biggest monthly deposits in nine
years, as stocks rallied and the  U.S. economy  showed signs of
strengthening.  “I think we are going to have to wait a few more months
before we know what is happening,”  Geoff Bobroff , a mutual fund
consultant based in  East Greenwich , Rhode Island, said in a
telephone interview.  Investors started pulling money from U.S. stock funds in
2007, and accelerated withdrawals after a 38 percent decline in
the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  in 2008. They instead sought out
the perceived safety of bond funds, even as the stock market
more than doubled from a 12-year low in March 2009.  The Dow rose 0.3 percent to 14,295.09 at 1:53 p.m. in New
York, after reaching a record yesterday to surpass its previous
peak in October 2007.  Jobs Report  A private jobs report today from ADP Research Institute
bolstered optimism that the U.S. job market will keep expanding
this year. Employers added 198,000 positions last month, ADP
said, topping the median economist forecast for 170,000.  In January, investors added money to both stock and bond
funds, a pattern that continued in February, according to ICI
data. Funds that buy international stocks have been more popular
than their domestic counterparts, with such funds winning $2.18
billion in deposits last week, the ICI said.  “I still think people perceive the international arena as
a better growth option,” Greggory Warren, an analyst with
Chicago-based  Morningstar Inc. (MORN) , said in a telephone interview.  Warren said he remains skeptical that investors are ready
to return to stocks in a big way. In a Feb. 4 note, he pointed
out that in past years, retail investors pulled back from stocks
whenever markets declined. “We are not convinced this is the
start of a trend,” he wrote.  Bond Risks  Investors still favor bond funds, ignoring warnings that
bonds lose value if  interest rates  rise. Bond funds drew $4.99
billion in the week ended Feb. 27, with taxable fixed-income
funds gathering $4.41 billion and those investing in municipal
debt getting $579 million.  “I am concerned that the general public doesn’t quite
understand the pricing of bonds and interest rates and the
inverse correlation between the two,”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
President Gary D. Cohn said in a Feb. 11 interview on Bloomberg
Television.  Dan Fuss , whose Loomis Sayles Bond Fund beat 97 percent of
peers in the last three years, said in a January interview that
the fixed-income market is more “overbought” that at any time
in his 55-year career.  “For heaven’s sake, don’t go out and borrow money to buy
bonds right now,” he said.  Concern that investors will shift their allocations to
equities from bonds in a so-called great rotation is overblown,
DoubleLine Capital Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Gundlach  said
yesterday in a webcast organized by his firm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charles Stein  in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  