-- U.S. Federal Reserve March Beige Book Summary (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2013-03-06T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/u-s-federal-reserve-march-beige-book-summary-text-.html
The following is the summary
text of the Federal Reserve Board’s Summary of Commentary.  Reports from the twelve Federal Reserve Districts indicated that
economic activity generally expanded at a modest to moderate
pace since the previous  Beige Book . Five Districts reported that
economic growth was moderate in January and early February, and
five Districts reported that activity expanded at a modest pace.
The  Boston  District said the economy continued to expand slowly,
and the  Chicago  District reported that economic activity grew at
a slow pace.  Most Districts reported expansion in consumer spending, although
retail sales slowed in several Districts. Automobile sales were
strong or solid most Districts, and tourism strengthened in a
number of Districts. The demand for services was generally
positive across Districts, most notably for technology and
logistics firms. Transportation services activity was mixed
among Districts, although the majority of contacts were
optimistic about future activity. Manufacturing modestly
improved in most regions, with several Districts reporting
strong demand from the auto, food, and residential construction
industries. Residential real estate markets strengthened in
nearly all Districts and  home prices  rose amid falling
inventories across much of the country. Commercial real estate
activity was mixed or improved slightly in most Districts, and
financing for commercial development remained widely available.
Overall loan demand was stable or slightly higher across nearly
all Districts, and several bankers noted stiff competition for
qualified borrowers. Agricultural conditions varied across the
country, with some areas continuing to suffer from drought while
others reported considerable precipitation and improved soil
moisture levels. Districts reporting on energy activity
indicated modest expansions in crude oil and natural gas
exploration, while mining activity slowed.  Price pressures remained modest, with the exception of increases
in prices for certain raw materials and slightly higher retail
prices in several Districts. Even with some input costs rising,
most District contacts did not plan to increase selling prices.
The majority of Districts reported modest improvements in labor
market conditions, although hiring plans were limited in several
Districts. Wage pressures were mostly limited, but some contacts
reported upward pressure for skilled positions in certain
industries due to worker shortages.  Consumer Spending and Tourism  Consumer spending  expanded in most Districts, but several
Districts reported mixed or lower activity among non-auto
retailers. Sales strengthened in the Philadelphia and Richmond
Districts, and retail sales were higher than a year ago in the
Boston, St. Louis, and  Minneapolis  Districts. San Francisco
reported modest growth in sales,  Dallas  noted flat to slightly
higher sales activity, and  New York  said retail sales were
strong in January but slowed in February primarily due to
weather. The Chicago District said consumer spending increased
at a slower rate, while  Cleveland  and Atlanta noted mixed sales
activity.  Kansas City  said retail sales decreased since the
previous survey period and were expected to remain flat in the
months ahead. Many District contacts commented on the expired
payroll tax holiday and the Affordable Care Act as having
restrained sales growth. Many Districts noted rising gasoline
prices and fiscal policy as having a negative effect on consumer
sales, and contacts in the Boston, New York, and Minneapolis
Districts said severe weather depressed sales somewhat. Contacts
in several Districts reported a shift in sales activity from
local malls to the Internet and indicated deep discounting among
retailers was becoming increasingly common.  San Francisco  noted
somewhat soft sales for traditional retail grocers, whose
competition has increased from discount and online retailers.  Most Districts reporting on auto sales noted solid or strong
increases in sales, with the exception of mixed activity in the
St. Louis District and a seasonal slowdown in the Dallas
District. Cleveland auto dealers credited milder-than-normal
weather and pent-up demand for the robust sales growth. New
automobile sales remained solid in the San Francisco District,
driven by demand to replace older vehicles and low financing
rates. Chicago and Minneapolis contacts reported an increase in
activity for auto service departments due to inclement weather.
Auto dealers in the Philadelphia District attributed the strong
sales in New Jersey to the continued effect of  Hurricane Sandy .
The New York District reported wholesale and retail auto credit
conditions as positive, with one contact noting increasingly
aggressive lenders. Most Districts’ contacts were cautiously
optimistic about future auto sales.  Tourism remained solid or advanced further in most Districts,
spurred by increased snowfall during the winter ski season.
Travel was reported as robust in the New York District,
particularly in  Manhattan , as well as at hotels in the outer
boroughs that are still occupied by displaced residents, utility
workers, insurance adjusters, and others due to Hurricane Sandy.
A ski resort in Minnesota reported that lift ticket sales and
lodging were well ahead of last year, although not close to
historical records. Boston and Atlanta noted a strong increase
in international visitors, especially from  Europe . Philadelphia
said tourist activity was solid in the Poconos’ ski resorts, but
some revenues were lost when schools cancelled winter break to
make up for missed days during Hurricane Sandy. Contacts in the
Richmond District mentioned increased activity along the outer
banks of North Carolina, and San Francisco reported solid growth
of visitor counts and occupancy rates in  Hawaii .  Nonfinancial Services  Nonfinancial services activity continued to grow at a modest
pace since the previous Beige Book.  St. Louis  and San Francisco
reported strong demand for technology, logistics, marketing and
legal services. Logistics services were also an area of growth
in the Philadelphia District, but growth was modest due to
firms’ concerns about possible federal spending cuts. High-tech
services increased in the Kansas City District, but growth was
lackluster in the Boston District due in part to weak demand
from Europe and Japan. Staffing services firms in the Boston and
New York Districts saw improved conditions, but activity was
mixed in the Dallas District. Boston, New York, Philadelphia,
and Kansas City services contacts continued to be optimistic
about growth in the coming months and in the second half of
2013.  Transportation services activity was mixed. Shipping volume in
the Cleveland District met or exceeded expectations, with
increases driven by the energy sector, rerouting of container
traffic, and residual effects from Hurricane Sandy.
Transportation activity also increased in the Atlanta District,
and port contacts continued to invest in infrastructure and
equipment improvements. Kansas City transportation services
activity was flat compared to the previous survey period. Dallas
reported weakened transportation demand, with decreases in
intermodal cargo, air cargo, and coal shipments, but contacts
noted that petroleum and petroleum-product shipments increased
during the survey period. Trucking firms in the Cleveland and
Kansas City Districts had trouble finding experienced drivers,
and a Cleveland contact said there may be a driver shortage in
the summer. Expectations for future transportation activity were
generally positive in most Districts.  Manufacturing  Manufacturing conditions improved in nearly all Districts, but
the increases were generally modest. Boston, New York,
Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis
and San Francisco reported some increases in factory activity,
but the majority noted that the pace of recovery was slow.
Conditions were mixed in the Philadelphia and Dallas Districts,
and manufacturing activity in the Kansas City District weakened.
Contacts in the Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, and Kansas City
Districts cited concerns over  government regulation  and fiscal
uncertainty as a reason for slow growth.  Auto production increased in the Cleveland, Chicago, and St.
Louis Districts, and a Minneapolis contact noted that production
increased faster than expected, spurring plans to renovate their
plant. Philadelphia and Dallas reported that food manufacturing
activity also exceeded expectations during the current period.
Manufacturing related to residential construction was a source
of strength for many Districts, including wood product
manufacturing in the St. Louis and San Francisco Districts;
household goods manufacturing in the Chicago District; cement
manufacturing in the Dallas District; and general housing
construction product manufacturing in the Philadelphia,
Cleveland, and Boston Districts. Primary and fabricated metal
manufacturers in the Philadelphia District experienced a
slowdown in activity, and a structural steel manufacturer in the
Minneapolis District planned to close. Durable manufacturing was
weak in the Kansas City District, but non-durables-especially
chemical manufacturing-improved. Expectations for future factory
activity were generally more optimistic compared with the
previous survey. Contacts in the Boston, New York, Philadelphia,
Cleveland, Atlanta, St. Louis, Kansas City, and Dallas Districts
expected activity to improve over the next few months across a
wide variety of industries.  Real Estate and Construction  Residential real estate activity continued to strengthen in most
Districts, although the pace of growth varied. Contacts in the
Boston, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San
Francisco Districts noted strong growth in home sales, while New
York and Chicago reported slight improvements. A realtor in the
Richmond District indicated that low  interest rates  continued to
motivate home buyers, and potential buyers in the Philadelphia
District expressed greater confidence, including entry-level
purchasers who had been increasingly opting to rent since mid-
summer. Contacts in the Cleveland and Atlanta Districts said
sales were higher than a year ago. Home construction increased
in most Districts, with the exception of the Kansas City
District where it was reported as unchanged. Several Districts
noted ongoing strength in multifamily construction, although
contacts in the Atlanta and Cleveland Districts mentioned
continued financing difficulties for builders. Home prices edged
higher in the majority of Districts, with lower inventories
generally cited as the primary cause. Richmond and Atlanta
Realtors observed multiple offers on many homes. Philadelphia
real estate contacts continued to report low-end home prices as
firm or rising slightly, while high-end home prices were still
falling. Inventories declined in nearly all Districts, with
Realtors in several Districts concerned about the impact on
future sales volume.  Overall commercial real estate conditions were mixed or slightly
improved in most Districts. Commercial real estate activity grew
modestly in the Philadelphia, Richmond, Atlanta, and St. Louis
Districts, and activity in the San Francisco District expanded.
Boston and New York reported mixed activity, while the Kansas
City and Dallas Districts noted few changes. Although some
modest growth was reported in the Chicago District, the level of
activity remained weak, and commercial contractors in the
Cleveland District noted a slowing in activity, particularly for
defense-related projects. Office vacancy rates declined across
most of the New York District, and industrial vacancy rates in
upstate New York posted their lowest levels in three years.
Richmond contacts described the supply of Class A office space
as tight, which they attributed to the absence of new
construction. Commercial development and leasing activity
increased in the San Francisco Bay and Seattle markets, fueled
by sustained growth in the technology sector. Commercial
construction improved by varying degrees in the Atlanta,
Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, and Kansas City Districts.
Respondents in the Boston District expressed concerns about
overbuilding in Boston’s apartment market and office sector,
while Philadelphia contacts noted an increase in energy-related
projects and repair work resulting from Hurricane Sandy.
Cleveland, Atlanta, and Chicago reported high demand for
manufacturing space, with some Chicago manufacturers leasing
temporary space to accommodate increased demand. Credit for
commercial development and transactions was widely available,
although Boston noted a large decline in loan demand and
contacts in the Cleveland District said financing difficulties
continued.  Banking and Finance  Loan demand was steady or increased across all the Districts
that reported. Residential real estate loan demand was strong in
the Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta and Chicago
Districts, mainly driven by refinances due to continued low
interest rates. Demand for commercial real estate loans was also
strong in the Cleveland, Richmond, and Kansas City Districts.
Auto lending increased in the Cleveland and Atlanta Districts,
and Philadelphia and Dallas cited growth in energy-related loan
demand. San Francisco continued to report a slowdown in  venture
capital  and private equity activity, but contacts noted an
increase in the number of private technology companies moving
toward an IPO.  Asset quality improved at banks in the Philadelphia, Kansas City
and San Francisco Districts. Philadelphia, Richmond, Atlanta and
San Francisco lenders reported high competition for qualified
borrowers. Borrowing standards were reported to have been
loosened in some Districts. Atlanta contacts noted additional
loan capacity, but continued to be cautious with loan activity.
Cleveland bankers considered cost cutting measures, including
layoffs, due to shrinking net interest margins. New York
contacts indicated a decrease in loan spreads for all loan
categories, particularly residential mortgages, and bankers in
the Chicago District said that very few mortgage originations
were being kept on their balance sheets and that interest rate
swaps were being utilized to hedge against a potential rise in
interest rates. Bankers were generally optimistic about future
activity in the Philadelphia and Dallas Districts for the near
term, but Atlanta bankers expected activity to ease toward the
middle of the year.  Agriculture and Natural Resources  Agricultural conditions across the country varied with weather
patterns. Persistent drought contributed to poor crop and
pasture conditions in the Kansas City and Dallas Districts while
recent precipitation improved soil moisture levels in the
Atlanta and Chicago Districts. Richmond, St. Louis, and
Minneapolis reported that elevated crop prices supported
stronger farm incomes. Kansas City and Dallas indicated that
drought-related herd reductions pushed cattle supplies to
historical lows, and Chicago, Kansas City and Dallas reported
weaker agricultural export activity. Richmond, Atlanta, Kansas
City, and San Francisco noted additional farmland value gains
due to robust demand from both farmers and nonfarm investors.
Chicago reported that congestion issues in barge traffic eased
on the Mississippi River.  Energy activity remained mixed with modest expansions in crude
oil and natural gas exploration but slower mining activity.
Drilling activity for crude oil and natural gas expanded further
in the Cleveland, Minneapolis, and Kansas City Districts and was
steady in the Richmond and Dallas Districts. Future drilling
activity was expected to rise in the Cleveland, Kansas City, and
Dallas Districts, and Atlanta noted  capital spending  at Gulf of
Mexico ports was expected to increase export capacity for oil
refineries. In contrast, coal production fell in the Cleveland,
Richmond, St. Louis, and Kansas City Districts, and was expected
to decline further with a shift in demand toward low-priced
natural gas and stricter environmental regulations. Minneapolis
reported a slowdown in metal mining activity, and some
facilities planned to further reduce production later in the
year. Ethanol production declined in the Minneapolis and Kansas
City Districts but edged up in the Chicago District.  Employment, Wages, and Prices  Labor market conditions generally improved, although several
Districts reported restrained hiring. Many Districts reported a
rise in temporary employees, while staffing contacts in the
Boston District noted an increase in the placement of permanent
and temporary-to-permanent workers. Auto dealers in the
Cleveland and Kansas City Districts mentioned plans to hire more
workers, and Dallas noted robust hiring activity for experienced
corporate, energy, and intellectual property lawyers. Positions
in the manufacturing industry increased in the New York,
Richmond, and Chicago Districts, although several Chicago
manufacturers expressed plans to either invest in more
productive capital or adjust the hours of existing employees
prior to hiring new workers. St. Louis noted weakness in
healthcare services and information technology positions, and
Cleveland reported reduced hiring plans from commercial builders
and coal operators. Employers in several Districts cited the
unknown effects of the Affordable Care Act as reasons for
planned layoffs and reluctance to hire more staff. Wage
pressures were minimal in most Districts, but contacts reported
some upward pressure for several skilled positions as a result
of higher demand. Some Districts indicated a shortage of skilled
workers such as engineers, truck drivers, software developers,
and technical jobs, and Atlanta noted a lack of compliance
specialists due to heavier regulations in the healthcare
industry.  The majority of Districts reported that price pressures remained
modest, but some input costs continued to rise. Cleveland and
San Francisco noted an increase in prices for petroleum-based
products such as gasoline, fertilizer and certain plastics, and
contacts in the Chicago, Minneapolis, and Dallas Districts
commented on increased transportation and fuel costs. Builders
in the Philadelphia, Cleveland, Chicago, Kansas City, and San
Francisco Districts cited an increase in construction material
costs, particularly for lumber, drywall, and steel. Retail
prices were steady or slightly rising in most Districts,
although Richmond noted some slowing since the last report.
Chicago retailers reported modest wholesale price increases for
a number of products, with larger increases for meat, fresh
produce, and leather. Retail grocers in the San Francisco
District reported relatively stable prices overall, but weather-
related factors boosted fresh produce prices. Increased food
costs pushed up restaurant menu prices in the Kansas City
District, and restaurant owners expect these costs to remain
elevated. Atlanta service industry contacts noted that stronger
sales were likely to put upward pressure on prices over the next
year. Plans to increase selling prices were limited among most
District contacts.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 