-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: San Francisco District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2013-03-06T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-san-francisco-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Twelfth District--  San Francisco .  Twelfth District economic activity expanded at a modest
pace during the reporting period of January through late-
February. Price inflation was limited overall, and upward wage
pressures were quite modest. Sales of retail items were up on
balance, and most business and consumer services gained.
District manufacturing activity ticked up. Production activity
and sales were strong for agricultural producers. Housing demand
trended up further, and commercial real estate activity
expanded. Contacts from financial institutions reported small
increases in overall loan demand and slight improvements in
credit availability.  Wages and Prices  Price increases were limited for most items. Modest upward
price pressure was reported for petroleum-related products such
as gasoline, fertilizer, and plastics, and some technology
products containing precious metal or rare earth components.
Reports indicated that prices of some construction materials,
including wood products, wallboard, drywall, and steel rebar
edged up further, while roofing, cement, and aluminum prices
dropped back slightly. Retail grocers reported relatively stable
pricing overall, but weather-related factors boosted fresh
produce prices in some regions. Hotel room rates increased in
 Las Vegas  and  Hawaii . Prices for professional services, such as
legal and financial, were stable.  Contacts reported that wage gains were quite modest for
most types of workers. Prolonged weakness in labor market
conditions has restrained hiring plans, and ready worker
availability in most sectors and regions has held down increases
in wages and compensation. Some upward pressure was reported for
workers in sectors and geographic areas with relatively low
unemployment rates, including hospitality workers in popular
tourist destinations. A shortage of trained engineers continues
to prompt vigorous employer competition and significant
compensation gains for this group across a number of industries.
In a few areas experiencing large increases in construction
activity, wages of construction labor have risen noticeably.  Retail Trade and Services  Retail sales grew modestly on balance. The recent pace of
sales and the near-term sales outlook were reported as fragile
by retailers selling to consumers at the lower end of the  income
distribution . New automobile sales remained solid, driven by
demand to replace older vehicles and low financing rates. Sales
remained somewhat soft for traditional retail grocers, who
experienced intensifying competition from discount and online
retailers. Demand for higher-end clothing has been stable.
Contacts also reported expansion in the user base for Internet
and digital media products through increased sales of devices
and enhanced features on a number of existing platforms.  Demand for most business and consumer services gained.
Contacts pointed to solid sales of various technology services
and greater demand for financial and accounting services. Food
service providers reported strong sales on net. Activity in the
District’s tourism and travel sector advanced, with solid growth
of visitor counts and occupancy rates reported in Hawaii;
however, more modest gains were reported in Las Vegas and
 Southern California . Current demand for health-care services
remained relatively weak, but contacts projected rising demand
as additional components of the Affordable Care Act are
implemented.  Manufacturing  District manufacturing activity appeared to tick up during
the reporting period of January through late-February.
Production activity for commercial aircraft and parts expanded,
although contacts projected weaker demand for defense aircraft.
Longer-term bookings for electronic components appeared to
increase. Pharmaceutical goods producers experienced modest
gains. Contacts indicated high levels of demand for a clean
alternative to  diesel fuel  that is under development. Wood
product manufacturers reported that demand grew further, fueled
in large part by rebounds in residential construction activity.
Demand for steel products used primarily in infrastructure and
nonresidential construction projects grew somewhat. While
overall steel capacity utilization remained at a historically
low level, capacity utilization was stronger in the automotive
steel products subsector.  Agriculture and Resource-related Industries  Production activity and sales were strong for agricultural
producers, and extraction activity of natural resources used for
energy production expanded on net. Demand for most crop and
livestock products grew further, and high grain prices
contributed to elevated land prices. Agricultural producers
faced higher petroleum-based fuel costs but lower natural gas
costs. Natural gas inventories declined a bit. In some slower-
growing regions, demand for new gas and electric hookups remains
tepid. In parts of the District, warmer-than-average weather
conditions led to reductions in overall energy usage.  Raw
materials  were adequately available, although water availability
beyond 2013 was a concern in some regions due to a dry winter.  Real Estate and Construction  Demand for housing strengthened, and commercial real estate
activity expanded, driven by pockets of strength in several
locales. Home sales climbed further in most regional markets,
and continuing low inventory levels supported stable or
increasing prices. Construction of multifamily residential
projects continued to expand. Commercial real estate development
and leasing activity increased, particularly in the San
Francisco Bay Area and Seattle markets, fueled by sustained
growth in the technology sector. Commercial rental rates
increased in various parts of the District.  Financial Institutions  Contacts from financial institutions reported that loan
demand was up somewhat, and overall credit availability has
either improved or remained unchanged from the last quarter of
2012. Contacts expect loan demand to increase more rapidly after
federal spending uncertainty is alleviated. Banking contacts
continued to highlight ample liquidity and generally stiff
competition among lenders to provide credit to well-qualified
business loan applicants, with community banks facing increasing
competition for small business and auto lending. Contacts
reported increases in privately held technology companies poised
for public offerings; despite the positive outlook, recent
initial public offering,  venture capital , and private equity
activity was relatively slow in the District’s Internet and
digital media subsectors. Reports indicated that  credit quality 
for both business and consumer loans has continued to improve
slowly.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 