-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Philadelphia District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2013-03-06T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-philadelphia-district-text-.html
The following is the text of
the Federal Reserve Board’s Third District-- Philadelphia.  Aggregate business activity in the Third District has maintained
the modest pace of growth that was evident during the previous
 Beige Book  period. In particular, general services and
commercial real estate leasing continued to expand at modest
rates. Activity in staffing services, transportation services,
and residential construction appear to have accelerated somewhat
to a modest rate of growth. Sales of new and used autos
maintained a moderate rate of growth - joined by general retail
sales that grew a bit faster than last period and by residential
real estate sales that grew a bit slower. The manufacturing
sector reversed course again, citing slight declines in overall
demand. Lending volumes at Third District banks continued to
grow slightly, and  credit quality  continued to improve. Ski
resorts are enjoying a good season overall, while Atlantic City
casino revenues continue to decline. General price levels, as
well as wages and  home prices , were reported to have increased
slightly overall - similar to the last Beige Book period.  The overall outlook for modest growth remains the same as those
views expressed in the last Beige Book. Ongoing uncertainty over
fiscal issues has postponed many business decisions. Contacts
reported a fundamental optimism in the economy and described new
signs of emerging growth; however, the ongoing uncertainty over
fiscal issues has been blamed for continued weak  consumer
confidence  and reluctance of businesses to make needed
investments in plant, equipment, and labor.
Manufacturing. Since the last Beige Book, Third District
manufacturers have reported that orders and shipments dipped
slightly. Some of the current weakness was attributed to greater
volatility in production swings associated with overall slow
growth, a high level of uncertainty, and a reluctance to build
inventories. As one contact said, “Who can plan?” Makers of food
products, lumber and wood products, industrial machinery,
electronic equipment, and instruments have reported gains since
the last Beige Book. Lower activity was reported by the makers
of primary metals and fabricated metal products. Contacts have
attributed some growth to rising demand from sectors related to
autos, housing, Marcellus shale, and other energy production.  Third District manufacturers expressed slightly more optimism
that business conditions will improve over the next six months
and their optimism emerged more broadly across all sectors since
the last Beige Book. Firms have also further raised their
overall expectations of future hiring and their plans for
 capital spending  since the last Beige Book.
Retail. Third District retailers reported a faster pace of sales
in January than during the recent holiday period and cited
continued gains in February for moderate growth overall. The
stronger sales were evident throughout the region and across a
variety of malls and outlet centers,regardless of the level of
the stores’ quality. Contacts cited a return of cold weather and
heavy promotions as prompting double-digit apparel sales of
winter wear. Three other factors cited as contributing to the
stronger growth were that sales may have borrowed from the soft
ending to the holiday season, gift cards were more prevalent,
and the comparison period one year ago had weak sales. Reports
on leasing activity noted that retail tenants are more confident
and taking longer lease terms, leading to net positive
absorption, greater occupancy rates, and more landlord pricing
power.  Auto dealers started the year as they finished last year - with
a moderate pace of sales, continuing a run of steady growth that
began a full year earlier. Sales in  New Jersey  are still
stronger, a likely remnant of  Hurricane Sandy ’s impact. While
the outlook among dealers remained positive, dealers continued
to maintain lean inventories and lean staffing levels. They
report that more hiring will occur if the recovery is sustained
after more of the fiscal uncertainties are resolved.
Finance. Overall, loan volumes have continued to grow at a
slight pace across Third District financial firms since the
previous Beige Book. Most loan categories have grown little or
not at all, with somewhat more activity generated for small
business lending and home mortgages, especially refinancings.
Consumer lending is relatively flat. In areas with Marcellus
shale gas, several banks have described customers paying down
loans with royalty money and avoiding further debt by paying
cash. Beyond the gas fields, energy projects are attracting
substantial investment interest and loan opportunities for
larger banks. The majority of banks indicates little change in
credit standards and slow, steady gains in quality; however, a
small, but growing number expressed concern about competitors’
standards. Financial institutions are generally optimistic about
future growth, although most expect mergers and acquisitions to
reduce the number of small community banks over the next few
years.  Real Estate and Construction. Homebuilders reported contract
activity at or near plan for January with a pickup in traffic
for February. Year-over-year growth rates were strong off of low
levels and builders attributed part of their growth to capturing
greater market share. Prospects have greater confidence and are
more prepared to buy, including entry-level purchasers that had
been increasingly opting to rent since mid-summer. Residential
brokers reported moderate year-over-year sales growth in January
for a second consecutive year; mild weather helped this year,
although January 2012 was also noted for its extremely warm
temperatures and lack of snow. As with new  home construction ,
existing home sales are growing from a low base. Builders and
brokers are optimistic for sustained growth through 2013.
According to one broker, “Better times are coming.”  Nonresidential real estate contacts reported continued modest
growth in overall leasing activity and continued slight growth
in construction. Contacts report that construction and repair
work have grown, prospect activity has gained momentum and
resolve, and money has been flowing more freely for investments.
Current activity and prospects are emerging from recently quiet
sectors, including some land development projects and retail, in
particular, large warehouse facilities for national retailers.
Activity is heating up in energy-related projects, with some
repair work resulting from Hurricane Sandy. Contacts were
decidedly more upbeat about future prospects, stating that the
trends “feel sustainable.”  Services. Third District service-sector firms have maintained a
modest pace of growth since the last Beige Book, according to
contacts in various sectors. Tourist activity has shifted to the
Poconos’ ski resorts, which are enjoying generous snowfalls and
accommodating temperatures that already promise an extended
season. However, contacts blame Hurricane Sandy for creating yet
another economic casualty - the Poconos’ peak ski week. Many
school districts in New Jersey and  New York  canceled their
winter break during the week of Presidents’ Day to make up
school days lost to the superstorm - causing many families to
skip their traditional family ski vacation in the Poconos.
Atlantic City casino revenues continued to struggle through
January, prompting a recently-opened casino to file for
 bankruptcy protection  while it continues to operate.
In other sectors, work orders for temporary help have grown
busier and busier since the start of the year at an area
staffing firm; a logistics firm reported strong overall growth.
A large consumer-oriented firm cited a good start to the current
year. Firms with defense-related work and entities dependent on
federal money for operations, including higher education,
expressed a wait-and-see attitude to the most recent fiscal
uncertainty. Overall, service-sector firms expressed confidence
in their expectations for growth in the near future.  Prices and Wages. Overall,  price levels  continued to increase
slightly, similar to the previous Beige Book. Cost factors among
manufacturing firms moderated a little, while the prices they
received fell slightly. Tight auto inventories maintain a price
environment that slightly favors auto dealers over their
customers. Homebuilders continued to note higher prices for
lumber, drywall, and other manufactured inputs. Some slight wage
pressure is appearing for contractors, which may be related to
increasing construction activity, but may also be due to repair
crews being drawn to the  Jersey Shore  by short-term, higher wage
contracts. Real estate contacts continued to report that low-end
 house prices  are firm or rising slightly, while high-end home
prices are still falling in most markets. Contacts from most
sectors continued to report that wages rose only a little, if at
all. Health insurance costs are mixed, ranging from very high
increases to no change.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 