-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Atlanta District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2013-03-06T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-atlanta-district-text-.html
The following is the text of
the Federal Reserve Board’s Sixth District-- Atlanta.  Summary. On balance, Sixth District business conditions appear
to have improved modestly in January and early February and the
outlook among most contacts remained generally optimistic across
sectors.  Overall, retailers cited mild sales growth at the beginning of
the year. The District’s tourism industry remained a bright spot
with both domestic and international visitors contributing to
its growth. Homebuilders and brokers noted home sales and prices
were above year-ago levels for new and existing homes, while
commercial real estate markets continued to witness slow but
steady improvements in overall activity. Manufacturers reported
increases in new orders and production. Reports from bankers
suggested that loan demand remained constant, largely because of
refinance activity. Hiring in District labor markets expanded at
a modest pace and prices generally remained flat compared with
late last year.  Consumer Spending  and Tourism. District merchants noted a slight
negative effect on consumer spending from the resumption of the
full Social Security tax. Reports also indicated that
expectations of higher healthcare costs and gasoline prices have
contributed to a modest decline in  consumer confidence . However,
reports showed that sales were up on a year-over-year basis at
chain stores. Discounts continued to bolster consumer activity,
and auto dealers continued to cite strong sales growth.
Hospitality contacts characterized travel and tourism activity
as strong in January and early February. Hotel occupancy rates
exceeded expectations and advanced bookings were above the year-
earlier pace. International visitors provided a boost to the
industry, with European visitors setting record-level activity
in recent months. Domestic travel and tourism also remained
healthy, despite concerns about rising gas prices. Occupancy
rates have been projected to continue increasing with
expectations of little cost pressure. Contacts remain optimistic
and anticipate persistent growth for the next three to six
months.
Real Estate and Construction. According to District brokers,
sales growth moderated somewhat on a year-over-year basis but
the majority reported that sales were ahead of year earlier
levels. Existing home inventories continued to contract and
several brokers reported that this was constraining sales. Many
noted that properties were receiving multiple offers,
particularly at the low-end of the market.  Home prices  were
reported to be ahead of the year earlier level and spring home
sales are expected to exceed the year earlier level, as well.  The optimism District homebuilders expressed in our last report
continued. Builders reported that recent new home sales and
construction activity were ahead of year earlier levels. The
majority of builders continued to note that new home inventories
were below the year-ago level. More builders than in our last
report indicated that new home prices were above the year
earlier level. Access to construction financing remained mostly
tight but several brokers and builders stated that they were
successful in obtaining financing. The outlook for construction
activity and new home sales over the next several months was
positive.  Contacts cited improvements in District commercial real estate
markets but the recovery continued to unfold slowly. Multifamily
projects dominated reports, although it was also noted that
manufacturers were expanding their facilities. Commercial
contractors reported that construction improved modestly from
late last year. Commercial brokers indicated that demand
improved as well. Rents stabilized by most accounts and tenants
were seeking longer lease deals. Investors still have a strong
interest in core markets, though there has been some indication
that some have started to turn to secondary markets in the
region.  Manufacturing and Transportation. Reports from businesses
indicated that manufacturing in the region improved in January
and early February. Contacts cited the highest activity level
since last September. All components of the Southeast  Purchasing
Managers ’ Index experienced increases with new orders,
production, and employment reflecting particular strength. The
number of purchasing managers that expect production to be
higher in the next three to six months increased compared with
the end of last year.  District rail companies reported lower total carloads from a
year earlier, but slight increases in intermodal traffic.
Petroleum products and metallic ores were cited as strong, while
grain, farm products, and iron and steel scrap were down
notably. A District port contact noted strong increases in
overall tonnage as well as auto and machinery units compared
with a year earlier. This volume was boosted in part by growth
in bulk and wheeled cargo, and year-over-year increases in
container traffic were described as notable. Several District
port contacts continued to report significant investment in
infrastructure and equipment improvements.  Banking and Finance. Bankers reported that mortgage loan demand
was good, but continued to be largely driven by refinancing.
However, some bankers expect the refinance market to ease up by
mid-year as regulatory changes related to reselling mortgages on
the secondary market becomes more stringent. Many indicated the
willingness to lend, but some noted that competitors were
offering loans at terms perceived as risky in the long run.
Institutions were noted as having the capacity to handle
increased loan volumes, but some continued to be conservative.
Auto loan activity remained strong.  Employment and Prices. Since the last report, employment growth
for the District has been moderate. High-end retailers reported
increased sales that have translated into mild increases in
staffing levels. Real estate contacts said they have yet to
experience gains that would warrant increasing their staffing
levels significantly. Similarly, community bankers noted
increased optimism on the real estate front, but are restricting
employment levels because of uncertainty related to upcoming
regulatory change. On balance, firms providing accounting and
consulting services to healthcare providers reported much-
increased demand because of regulatory changes, resulting in
shortages of compliance specialists.  Inflation expectations among business contacts have been little
changed over the past six months. However, costs relating to  tax
policy , regulation, and healthcare remained sources of
uncertainty going into 2013. Firms responding to our Business
Inflation Expectations survey reported that unit costs were up
1.7 percent in February over the past year, roughly unchanged
from their assessment late last year. Looking forward, business
expectations for inflation have been relatively stable. On
average, firms expected unit costs to rise 1.9 percent over the
next 12 months. Compared with the end of last year, service
industry contacts noted that stronger sales were likely to put
upward pressure on prices over the next year. Manufacturers
indicated that they expect to improve margins in 2013, as sales
improve and materials costs moderate somewhat.  Natural Resources and Agriculture. As domestically produced oil
has become increasingly available, Gulf Coast refiners reported
declining dependence on imported crude for processing, and more
refined product being exported. There was some concern that oil
and petroleum product export capacity at  Gulf of Mexico  ports
was becoming strained; however, contacts noted that planned
investments at these ports were likely to increase export
capacity going forward.  Recent rains improved drought conditions in Alabama and  Georgia ,
while  Florida  saw dry conditions expand over most of the state.
Prices for corn, soybeans, beef, broilers, and eggs were higher
than year-ago levels while the price for cotton was down.
Contacts continued to report that groups with no agriculture
experience were looking to buy farmland as they seek better
investment returns.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 