-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Minneapolis District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2013-03-06T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-minneapolis-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Ninth District--  Minneapolis .  The Ninth District economy showed signs of moderate growth.
Increased activity was noted in  consumer spending , tourism,
professional services and manufacturing. Construction and real
estate posted strong growth, while agricultural producers were
in mostly strong condition. Activity in the energy sector was
mixed, while mining slowed. Labor markets tightened modestly,
and wage increases were moderate. Prices were generally stable
with some exceptions noted.  Consumer Spending and Tourism  Consumer spending posted modest gains. Same-store sales at
a Minnesota-based retailer increased 3 percent in January
compared with a year ago. A Minnesota-based restaurant and bar
chain reported 2 percent sales gains during January and early
February compared with last year. A Minneapolis area mall
manager noted that traffic was slower in January due to the cold
weather, but winter apparel and jewelry sales have been strong.
Store owners at a South Dakota mall noted that recent business
appears to be doing well. An increase in inclement winter
weather boosted business at auto body repair shops.  Improved snow cover spurred winter tourism activity since
the last report. Snowmobiling and cross country skiing picked up
over the past few weeks in northwestern  Wisconsin , according to
an official; the last weekend in February brought up to 30,000
people to the region for the American Birkebeiner cross country
ski race. A Minnesota ski resort reported that lift ticket sales
and lodging were “well ahead of last year, but not breaking any
records.”  Construction and Real Estate  Commercial construction activity increased at a robust pace
since the last report. A real estate forecasting firm expects
600,000 square feet of industrial construction in the
Minneapolis-St. Paul area in 2013 compared with 200,000 square
feet in 2012. Some of that construction is speculative.
Residential construction increased rapidly from a year ago. The
value of January residential building permits in Billings,
Mont., more than doubled from last year, and the value of
January permits in  Sioux Falls , S.D., was up over 400 percent
from a year ago, mainly due to apartment construction. In the
Minneapolis-St. Paul area, January residential permits were up
almost 70 percent compared with January 2012.  Commercial real estate markets continued to strengthen. A
major commercial real estate firm forecast that Minneapolis-St.
Paul area office vacancy rates will drop to 15.5 percent by the
end of 2013 compared with 17.6 percent at the end of 2012. The
same firm forecast industrial vacancy rates to drop to 7.6
percent from 8.5 percent. Residential real estate market
activity increased at a strong pace. Home sales in January were
up 11 percent from the same period a year ago in the
Minneapolis-St. Paul area; the inventory of homes for sale was
down 32 percent, and median sale prices rose 14 percent. A
 Minnesota  Realtor commented, “Tight housing market with more
buyers looking than sellers selling.” In the Sioux Falls area,
January home sales were up 88 percent, inventory was down 21
percent and the median sale price increased 4 percent relative
to a year earlier. Sales of vacation homes in northern Wisconsin
posted strong gains in January.  Services  Activity at professional business services firms increased
at a modest pace since the last report. Several financial
planners noted an increase in business due to clients gaining
employment. Some architects noted an increase in bidding
activity. A freight trucking company noted a recent slight
uptick in traffic primarily due to increased e-commerce traffic.
However, mortgage refinancing brokers reported a decrease in
activity.  Manufacturing  District manufacturers saw modest growth since the last
report. A January survey of  purchasing managers  by Creighton
University (Omaha, Neb.) showed that manufacturing activity
increased in Minnesota and the Dakotas. The rate of increase was
slower in Minnesota from the previous month, due mostly to
weaker nondurable goods production. A vehicle plant in North
Dakota saw faster-than-expected production increases, and it
plans to renovate its facilities. Another vehicle maker in
Minnesota also reported increased sales, but weakened its
outlook for the coming year slightly. However, a structural
steel producer in  Montana  is closing.  Energy and Mining  Activity in the energy sector was mixed, while mining
slowed. Oil and gas exploration increased in North Dakota and
decreased in Montana since the last report, while production
remained at historically high levels. Developers are considering
building a large oilfield waste facility in western  North
Dakota . A Minnesota electricity producer recently closed one
coal-fired plant and converted another to natural gas to meet
expected future pollution control rules; the utility has also
built more  wind turbines  in North Dakota. Tight corn supplies
put pressure on ethanol producers; two plants in Minnesota and
one in North Dakota have idled in the last year. Two potential
new fracking sand mines were proposed in southeastern Minnesota.
Minnesota iron ore production in 2012 exceeded levels from the
previous year. However, production at the end of the year came
in lower than earlier months, and some facilities are planning
to slow production in 2013.  Agriculture  Agricultural producers in the District remained in mostly
strong condition. Despite the drought, the USDA reported that
2012 corn production broke records in Minnesota and North
Dakota. South Dakota corn and soybean production were down from
the previous year, but came in higher than earlier estimates.
The Minnesota sugar beet and North Dakota soybean crops were the
highest on record. Prices received by farmers in January
increased from a year earlier for wheat, corn, soybeans, cattle,
milk, eggs and poultry; prices for hogs, turkey and dry beans
were below their year-earlier levels.  Employment, Wages and Prices  Labor markets tightened modestly since the last report.
Representatives from two technology companies in Minnesota
described the labor market for high-tech workers as “at full
employment” with fewer qualified applicants applying for open
positions. A trucking broker recently announced plans to expand
in Minnesota and add 500 more staff over the next several years.
A regional airline announced plans to relocate its headquarters
to Minnesota, which will bring a few hundred jobs to the state.
In North Dakota, an insurance company recently announced that it
expects to create 200 new jobs. In contrast, a home mortgage
operation in Minnesota will close this spring, affecting over
200 employees. A medical device company recently announced plans
to lay off a substantial number of workers in Minnesota. In
Montana, the closure of two food distribution warehouses will
lead to over 100 job losses.  Overall wage increases remained moderate. According to a
survey of business activity in the Fargo, N.D., area, 72 percent
of respondents expect a slight to moderate increase in
compensation, while 20 percent expect no change in compensation.
Labor unrest was noted in Minnesota, where a union representing
6,000 janitors and security officers was poised to strike at the
end of February in response to a lack of progress on contract
negations.  Prices were generally stable with some exceptions noted.
Mid-February Minnesota gasoline prices were up almost 80 cents
per gallon compared to mid-January. Contacts noted that some
freight shipping costs recently increased.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 