-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Richmond District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2013-03-06T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-richmond-district-text-.html
The following is the text of
the Federal Reserve Board’s Fifth District-- Richmond.  Overview. District economic activity grew moderately since our
last report. Manufacturing strengthened somewhat in recent
weeks. Tourism also picked up, while other non-retail services
providers reported that activity grew at a slower pace. Retail
sales rose, although auto sales slowed slightly from previous
high levels. Lending activity increased marginally, with a
slight uptick in demand for commercial and residential
mortgages. Residential real estate activity grew at a modest
pace, and commercial real estate and construction markets
improved. The agricultural sector remained strong, while oil and
natural gas production eased during the past six weeks. Labor
markets were generally flat since our last report.
Manufacturers’ input prices rose at a slightly slower rate,
while finished goods prices were little changed and the pace of
wage growth held constant. Price growth at non-retail services
firms picked up slightly in recent weeks, while wages in that
sector advanced more quickly. Retail price increases slowed, and
average retail wages rose more quickly since our last report.  Manufacturing. Fifth District manufacturing activity showed some
signs of strengthening. A producer of lumber products reported
that the month of January was the best in more than five years,
and a furniture manufacturer said that there was a firmer tone
at his company as measured by product quotation requests. A
manufacturer of polyester film told us that overall demand had
increased, but he could not yet raise prices and margins
continued to be squeezed. He noted that customers were not
making long-term commitments and they continued to worry the
sustainability of the positive economic trend. A textile
manufacturer noted that uncertainty around his government-
related contracts could lead to layoffs, although his non-
government business was strong. According to our latest survey,
raw materials prices grew at a slightly slower pace, while
finished goods prices were little changed.  Ports. District port administrators reported strong container
traffic in recent weeks. Exports of agricultural and chemical
products coming from the Gulf states and the Midwest rose, and
port administrators expected a general pick-up in activity in
March. Automobile imports slowed in January and February after
finishing 2012 on a high note. Exports have led imports so far
this year, although exports of equipment for construction and
agriculture slowed as last year’s capital restocking abated. The
Chinese New Year on February 10 resulted in only a few port of
call cancellations because of plant and port shutdowns in  China .
After months of extensions, concerns about dockworker contract
negotiations generally lessened since early February, although
contracts have not yet been finalized.  Retail. Retail sales strengthened in recent weeks. Survey
respondents in food sales, pharmaceuticals, and home and garden
centers reported higher revenues in February. A building supply
wholesaler commented, “Things are on the mend.” Sales of
automobiles and light trucks remained strong, even as the pace
slowed slightly from last year’s robust levels, according to
dealerships in several locations. An auto dealer in West
Virginia described sales as “plugging along.” Growth in retail
prices slowed since our last report.  Services. Activity in the service sector grew at a slower pace
in this reporting period. Survey respondents at law firms,
marketing firms, and nursing homes reported slower growth. In
addition, executives we contacted at freight trucking firms
reported little change in new demand in January and February,
with increased business attributed to gaining a larger market
share. Financial services firms also noted little change,
although a broker at a Virginia firm remarked that his clients
were feeling a bit more optimistic. Prices in the sector rose
slightly faster.  Tourist activity picked up, however, according to a contact on
the outer banks of North Carolina, with a strong Presidents’ Day
weekend and solid advance reservations for the summer. Further
inland, a hotel and conference center manager noted stronger
convention bookings. In West Virginia, winter weather helped
boost activity at a mountain resort. Rates were generally flat.  Finance. Lending activity increased marginally since our last
report. Most bankers reported a slight uptick in demand for
commercial and residential mortgages. Refinancing constituted a
significant portion of this demand, primarily due to low
interest rates. Officials from both a large commercial bank and
a small community bank noted that the demand for refinancing
also was driven by five year balloon payments coming due. In
contrast, a North Carolina banker reported a slowdown in
refinancing due to an increase in interest rates. Commercial
loans rose modestly, although demand remained weak. Several
bankers in West Virginia noted that there has been a reluctance
to invest due to uncertainty about federal policies. A contact
noted, “the best customers are not borrowing and are very
liquid.” However, other District bankers were cautiously
optimistic about the future and growth in their loan portfolios.
In addition, lenders noted minor improvement in credit quality
and delinquency rates. On the consumer side, demand for loans
remained flat. Bankers remarked that competition was
increasingly aggressive.  Real Estate. Residential real estate activity generally grew at
a moderate pace since our last report. A contact in North
Carolina stated that the housing recovery “is real, although
modest at this point.” He cited firming sales of new and
existing single-family homes, falling inventories, and
recovering resale prices as signs of improvement. A Realtor in
the Washington, D.C. area said that continuing low interest
rates coupled with decreasing inventory had created a very
competitive market, which often led to multiple offers.
Similarly, a Realtor in the metro-Richmond area indicated that
low interest rates continued to motivate home buyers, and that
many areas around Richmond had less than two months of supply.
In Charleston, South Carolina, a Realtor told us that the
housing market had regained some stability and that in 2012, for
the first time in five years, more than 10,000 homes were sold.
In contrast, a contact in the  Charlotte  area mentioned that
people were adding rooms to their homes, rather than buying and
moving. He noted that in the past, homeowners chose renovation
projects based on the expected effect on the market price. Now,
he said, they build for themselves and stay put. In Maryland, a
source reported slow recovery in the housing sector with fewer
days on the market and added that housing
prices had stabilized.  Commercial real estate and construction markets improved
somewhat since our last report. A developer in the Carolinas
said that leasing activity continued at a reasonably healthy
pace, while a Richmond Realtor stated that tenants were trying
to hedge based on the economy. He noted that companies didn’t
want to commit to more than a five-year lease with the right to
cancel at three years.  Most contacts continued to describe the supply of Class A office
space as tight, which they attributed to the absence of new
construction. Several Realtors reported that rental rates had
firmed in the market with property owners keeping rents firm and
minimizing concessions. A source in Charleston, South Carolina
cited heightened industrial sales due to attractive lending
rates. He indicated that vacancy rates had declined and that a
couple of build-to-suit projects had positive absorption.  Agriculture and Natural Resources.  The agricultural sector remained strong, while energy production
declined slightly. Results of our most recent agricultural
survey indicated that farmland values were above both the
previous quarter and year-ago levels. In addition, most contacts
noted that 2012 was one of the best years that farmers have ever
had; they indicated that higher commodity prices had resulted in
stronger cash positions. Several forestry contacts reported a
pickup in lumber prices due to the uptick in the housing sector.  Although conventional oil and natural gas production fell
slightly since our last report, the rig count held steady in
West Virginia. Coal production continued to fall, due to
declining prices for natural gas and stricter environmental
regulations. A manufacturer of equipment used in the coal
extraction process pointed out that while the environment in the
coal mining industry had been challenging, there is tremendous
growth potential for coal producers in the global market,
particularly in sales to China,  India ,
and  Germany . Another source stated that coal exports were up and
that a coal operator who had never sold overseas before had
thirty percent of sales in export markets for this year.  Labor Markets. Labor market activity was little changed since
our last report. Hiring remained flat across most sectors,
although there were some exceptions. Employers across the
District continued to cite the Affordable Care Act and its
unknown impacts as reasons for planned layoffs and reluctance to
hire more staff. In contrast, expansion by a software developer
in North Carolina will bring new jobs, and
contacts in the service and manufacturing sectors reported a
demand for engineers and skilled labor, although they also
expressed some difficulty in finding such workers. An agent from
 Maryland  reported increased demand for temp workers,
particularly in the manufacturing sector. According to our
latest survey, average retail wages rose quickly and average
wages at non-retail services firms picked up moderately in
recent weeks; hiring, however, was still soft. In the
manufacturing sector, employment strengthened over the last
month, while wage growth remained modest.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 