-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: St. Louis District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2013-03-06T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-st-louis-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Eight District--  St. Louis .  Economic activity in the Eighth District has expanded at a
moderate pace since the previous report. Recent reports of
planned activity in manufacturing and services have been
positive. Retail sales over the past three months have increased
compared with the same period a year ago. Reports on auto sales
over the same period have been mixed. Residential real estate
market conditions have continued to improve, and commercial and
industrial real estate markets have also improved. Lending
activity at a sample of large District banks indicated little
change during the fourth quarter of 2012. Prices, wages, and
employment levels over the past three months have stayed the
same or increased for a majority of contacts across the
District.  Consumer Spending  Contacts reported that retail sales in the past three
months were up, on average, relative to the same period last
year. Fifty percent of contacts noted increases in sales, while
25 percent noted decreases and the rest saw no changes. Sixty-
three percent of retailers reported that sales levels met their
expectations, and the remaining retailers reported that sales
fell short of expectations. About 69 percent of retailers noted
that their inventories were at desired levels, while the
remaining contacts reported that their inventory levels were too
high. The sales outlook over the next three months was positive:
63 percent of retailers expect sales to increase over 2012
levels, while 19 percent expect sales to decrease.  Reports from car dealers about sales in the past three
months were mixed. Twenty-eight percent of the car dealers
surveyed saw increases in sales, while 36 percent saw decreases
and 36 percent saw no changes. Thirty-six percent of car dealers
reported an increase in used car sales relative to new car
sales, and 36 percent of car dealers reported the opposite.
Sixty percent of contacts reported increased sales of low-end
vehicles relative to high-end vehicles. About 62 percent of
respondents reported that their inventories were too high, while
8 percent reported that their inventories were too low. The
sales outlook for the next three months was optimistic: 54
percent of the car dealers expect sales to increase over 2012
levels and none of the survey respondents expect sales to
decrease.  Manufacturing and Other Business Activity  Reports of plans for manufacturing activity have been
positive since our previous report. Several manufacturing firms
reported plans to add workers and expand operations in the
Eighth District, while fewer manufacturers reported plans to lay
off workers or reduce operations. Firms in steel, automobile,
appliance, furniture, automobile parts, plastics, wood products,
lumber, beverage, and machinery manufacturing industries
announced plans to hire new employees and expand operations in
the near future. In contrast, firms that manufacture solar
equipment, medical devices, food, and electric components
announced plans to lay off workers.  Reports of planned activity in the District’s service
sector have also been positive since the previous report. Firms
in logistics and transportation, marketing, casinos, education,
and legal services announced new hiring or expansion plans in
the District. In contrast, firms in healthcare services and
information services announced plans to reduce employment.  Real Estate and Construction  Home sales continued to increase throughout most of the
Eighth District on a year-over-year basis. Compared with the
same period in 2012, January 2013 year-to-date home sales were
up 19 percent in Louisville, 23 percent in  Little Rock , 11
percent in Memphis, and 23 percent in St. Louis. Residential
construction also increased in most of the District. Compared
with the same period in 2012, January 2013 year-to-date single-
family housing permits increased 19 percent in Louisville, 9
percent in Memphis, and 44 percent in St. Louis. In contrast,
permits decreased 1 percent in Little Rock over the same period.  Commercial and industrial real estate markets improved
modestly throughout most of the District. Contacts in Louisville
reported that office asking rents increased during the fourth
quarter of 2012, while contacts in Little Rock noted that office
vacancy rates decreased. A contact in St. Louis reported strong
office leasing and industrial sales activity. A contact in
 Memphis  reported stable commercial real estate conditions.
Commercial and industrial construction activity continued to
strengthen throughout most of the District. A contact in
northeast  Mississippi  noted that commercial construction and
renovation activity increased in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Contacts in St. Louis noted a few commercial construction
projects underway and plans for a speculative industrial
building project. Contacts in Louisville reported several
ongoing commercial construction projects in  Bowling Green .  Banking and Finance  A survey of senior loan officers at a sample of large
District banks found little change in overall lending activity
during the fourth quarter of 2012. During this period, credit
standards and demand for commercial and industrial loans
remained largely unchanged. Credit standards for commercial real
estate loans ranged from basically unchanged to eased somewhat,
while demand ranged from unchanged to moderately stronger.
Credit standards for prime residential  mortgage loans  remained
generally unchanged, while demand ranged from moderately weaker
to moderately stronger. Meanwhile, credit standards and demand
for consumer loans remained largely unchanged.  Agriculture and Natural Resources  Annual crop production in the District’s states declined
for most crops in 2012. The District’s states produced less
corn, cotton, soybeans, and wheat in 2012 compared with 2011; in
contrast, the District’s states produced more rice and sorghum.
The effect of the decline in production on farm incomes was
partially offset by higher prices in the District’s states for
corn, rice, sorghum, and soybeans. January coal production in
the District’s states (excluding eastern  Kentucky ) was down 3.6
percent relative to a year ago.  Prices, Wages, and Employment  Sixty-one percent of contacts indicated that  price levels 
over the past three months have stayed the same, while 25
percent indicated that prices have increased relative to the
same period last year. Similarly, half of contacts noted that
non-labor costs over the past three months have stayed the same,
while 48 percent of contacts noted that non-labor costs have
increased. Forty-three percent of contacts, in turn, noted that
wages over the past three months have stayed the same, while 57
percent noted that wages have increased relative to the same
period last year. Meanwhile, 54 percent of contacts reported
that employment levels have remained the same over the past
three months, while 35 percent reported that employment levels
have increased, compared with the same period last year.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 