-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Chicago District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2013-03-06T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-chicago-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Seventh District--  Chicago .  Economic activity in the Seventh District continued to
expand at a slow pace in January and February. Many contacts
expected that growth would be weak in the first half of 2013,
partly because of uncertainty over federal fiscal policy, but
that activity would rebound in the second half of the year.
Growth in consumer and business spending slowed during the
latest reporting period, but the pace of manufacturing
production improved. Residential construction rose at a moderate
pace while nonresidential construction remained weak. Credit
conditions continued to improve gradually. Cost pressures
increased some, while wage pressures remained moderate. Prices
for corn, wheat, milk, hogs, and cattle moved lower, while
soybean prices moved higher.  Consumer spending.  Consumer spending increased at a slower rate in January and
February. Retailers pointed to the negative impacts on household
budgets from rising gas prices and the end of the payroll tax
holiday as explanations for the slower pace of retail sales.
Sales of clothing, furniture, and health and personal care items
were weaker. However, gift card redemptions boosted sales of
electronics, appliances, music, and sporting goods. Grocery
stores also reported a slight increase in sales, while
restaurant sales were flat. Auto sales were steady for much of
the reporting period before increasing slightly over the last
few weeks. Car and truck sales both improved, with all-wheel
vehicles registering the largest gains. Severe winter weather
conditions also led to an increase in service department
activity. Looking ahead, retailers expressed concern that
potential fiscal policy tightening would continue to have a
negative impact on consumer sentiment and retail sales
throughout the remainder of the first quarter.  Business spending.  Growth in business spending slowed in January and February.
Inventory investment declined, and spending on equipment and
structures was again limited. Several manufacturers noted that
they plan to make capital expenditures this year only as
necessary, delaying investments because of heightened
uncertainty surrounding fiscal policy. Those non-manufacturing
contacts that reported increased capital expenditures were
primarily spending on additional vehicles and information
technology. Labor market conditions were little changed. Hiring
continued to increase slowly. Contacts indicated that there is
still strong demand for talent in skilled professional and
manufacturing jobs. However, several manufacturing contacts
expressed plans to either invest in more productive capital
equipment or adjust the hours of existing employees before
hiring new workers this year. In addition, a staffing firm noted
that demand for temporary employees had improved --largely based
on an increase in demand from the manufacturing sector -- but
remained weaker in the District than for the rest of the nation.  Construction/real estate.  Construction and real estate activity was again mixed in
January and February. Demand for residential construction
continued to increase slowly, buoyed by ongoing strength in
multifamily construction. A contact noted that some builders are
in the early stages of looking for new land to develop. Even so,
many builders and lenders remain very cautious to re-enter the
single-family market. Conditions in the residential real estate
market improved slightly, with home prices edging higher and the
inventory of unsold homes declining. Home sales reportedly
picked up in wealthier communities, but sales continued to lag
in low and moderate-income communities. Although there was some
modest growth in nonresidential construction, the level of
activity remains weak. Notably, while some new projects are
slated to break ground, growth in commercial and office space is
expected to remain below trend for some time. However, contacts
did note that construction of private-practice facilities close
to affiliated hospitals is an area of strength in this segment.
Commercial real estate leasing activity was generally unchanged-
-rents held steady, while vacancy rates continued to come down
slowly. In contrast, some manufacturers were reportedly leasing
temporary space in order to accommodate increased demand.  Manufacturing.  Growth in manufacturing production picked up in January and
February. The auto industry remained a source of strength, with
light vehicle sales expected to increase throughout the year.
Specialty metal manufacturers reported increases in new orders
and order backlogs; but many expressed concern about the
increased volatility of their customers’ orders, citing
heightened uncertainty over the regulatory and fiscal
environment. Inventories at steel service centers were noted to
be below desirable levels. A steel producer stated that the
steel market is currently moving sideways, but sees signs that
activity will pick up later in the year. Manufacturers of
household goods also reported a pick-up in demand as the housing
market continued to improve. However, a manufacturer of building
materials noted that demand had slowed some for their product
since the end of last year. Demand for heavy equipment also
weakened, with lower coal prices contributing to less mining
activity. Furthermore, contacts indicated that heavy equipment
dealers were working through an excess inventory of construction
equipment. The recent weakness is expected to be temporary, with
demand projected to rebound in the second half of the year.  Banking/finance.  Credit conditions continued to ease over the reporting
period. Credit spreads and financial market volatility remained
low and asset quality continued to improve. While underlying
risk free rates have risen since the last reporting period,
competition among lenders and investor willingness to accept
more risk prevented an increase in private borrowing rates.
Banking contacts reported moderate growth in business and
consumer loan demand, with pricing relatively unchanged but some
loosening of loan standards. Residential real estate lending, in
particular, continued to benefit from historically low interest
rates. Contacts noted banks are keeping few very mortgage
originations on their balance sheet and relying on interest rate
swaps to hedge against a potential rise in interest rates.  Prices/costs.  Cost pressures were moderately higher in January and
February. Contacts noted some upward pressure on raw materials
prices, particularly for lumber, drywall, steel, aluminum, and
copper. Several also cited rising energy and transportation
costs, pointing to higher gasoline and natural gas prices.
Retailers reported modest wholesale price increases for a number
of products and larger price increases for meat, fresh produce,
and leather. Pass-through to downstream prices, however, was
limited. Wage pressures remained moderate. Costs for healthcare
and other benefits continued to increase; some contacts noted
that they were passing along the higher costs to employees. More
generally, higher compensation costs were not being passed on to
customers.  Agriculture.  Snow and rain continued to boost topsoil moisture levels,
although depleted subsurface moisture remained a concern for
farmers. Between engineering work on the Mississippi River,
higher water levels, and low export demand for grain, congestion
eased for barge activity. Corn and soybean stocks at grain
elevators were even tighter than last year, as many farmers
continued to store a share of their crops on hand in
anticipation of higher profits closer to harvest this year.
Input costs for planting have not changed substantially over the
winter. Corn, wheat, milk, hog, and cattle prices dipped during
the reporting period, while soybean prices moved a little
higher. The prices for corn and soybeans in February become the
benchmarks for potential compensation from crop revenue
insurance plans; these prices were high enough to guarantee that
insured crop operations will cover their production costs this
year. Lower feed costs aided the cash flows of livestock
operations. Lower corn prices also led to higher ethanol
production.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 