-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: New York District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2013-03-06T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-new-york-district-text-.html
The following is the text of
the Federal Reserve Board’s Second District--  New York .  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board  Economic activity in the Second District has continued to expand
at a moderate pace since the last report. Business contacts
report some pickup in input price pressures but relatively few
say they are increasing their selling prices. The labor market
has shown scattered signs of improvement: manufacturers report
an upturn in hiring, and a major employment agency notes
increasingly strong demand for temps. Retailers report that
sales have generally been strong and ahead of plan in January
and early February. Auto sales in upstate New York were also
described as robust since the beginning of the year. Tourism
activity has been mixed but generally strong thus far in 2013,
with hotels getting an additional boost from displaced residents
and recovery workers in the aftermath of Superstorm Sandy. Both
residential and commercial real estate markets showed signs of
improving since the last report. Finally, bankers report
increased loan demand, no change in credit standards, further
narrowing in loan spreads, and lower delinquency rates on
commercial loans and mortgages.  Consumer Spending  Retailers report that sales were strong in January but mixed in
early February. Contacts in upstate New York report that sales,
as well as traffic, were strong in January but slowed somewhat
during the first half of February, in part, because of bad
weather in the early part of the month. Moreover, contacts
report that the mix of sales activity has continued to shift
from actual mall sales to  Internet sales . One retail contact
notes that deep discounting is becoming increasingly common  Auto dealers in the Buffalo and Rochester areas report that new
vehicle sales were exceptionally strong in January, running 20-
30 percent ahead of a year earlier, and have shown continued
strength in early February--a marked contrast from December,
when sales were sluggish. Used vehicle sales have remained flat
recently. Wholesale and retail credit conditions for auto
purchases are reported to be in good shape, and one contact
notes that lenders have become more aggressive.  Tourism activity has generally been robust since the last
report. Manhattan hotels report that business was relatively
brisk in January, with revenues up 10-15 percent from a year
earlier, driven largely by substantially higher occupancy rates
but also boosted by a 5 percent increase in room rates. Hotels
in the outer boroughs have seen even more dramatic increases,
upwards of 40 percent; much of this surge in activity is
attributed to Sandy, as hotel rooms are being occupied by
displaced residents, utility workers, insurance adjusters, and
others who are helping with rebuilding and restoration. Broadway
theaters report that attendance and revenues have been running
below comparable 2012 levels in January and early December--
mainly reflecting a 20-30 percent reduction in the number of
shows. Finally,  consumer confidence  in the region was mixed in
January. The Conference Board’s survey of residents of the
Middle Atlantic states (NY, NJ, Pa) shows confidence rebounding
strongly in January, after slipping to a more than one-year low
in December; however, Siena College’s survey of New York State
residents shows confidence slipping to a 5-month low in January,
with declines spread evenly between upstate and the  New York
City  area.  Construction and Real Estate  Residential real estate markets in the District have shown signs
of improvement in recent weeks. A major appraisal firm reports
that New York City’s co-op and condo market has remained
surprisingly active in early 2013, following an exceptionally
strong fourth quarter. Apartment sales are up strongly from a
year ago, and tight inventories are starting to nudge up prices
across the board. One contact notes that year-end inventory
levels were the lowest he has seen in more than 12 years. The
apartment rental market, however, has leveled off; after rising
at a roughly 5-10 percent rate in 2012, rents on apartments in
both Manhattan and the outer boroughs are estimated to be
running just 1-2 percent ahead of a year ago in early 2013.  An expert on northern  New Jersey ’s housing market reports a
pickup in activity and an improvement in the general tone of the
market, describing the current season as the best since 2007.
Residential builders are reported to be increasingly optimistic-
-they anticipate a substantially better year than 2012 and are
investing more heavily in new projects. Single-family
construction is seen as picking up, as multi-family construction
retains momentum. While there remains a large overhang of
foreclosed and distressed properties, many of these are expected
to be snapped up by investors. Realtors in the Buffalo area
report continued favorable conditions in the housing market:
prices have risen steadily at a moderate pace, inventory levels
are fairly low, and sales activity has been steady.  Commercial real estate markets across the District were mixed
but generally firmer since the last report. Office vacancy rates
declined across most of the District, though rents in most areas
continued to run below year-ago levels.  Manhattan ’s office
market was particularly robust, with vacancy rates continuing to
decline and asking rents up 4 percent from a year ago. In
northern New Jersey and in the Buffalo, Albany and Syracuse
metro areas, vacancy rates have declined since the start of the
year, but rents continue to run 1-3 percent below early 2012
levels. However, office markets in Westchester and Fairfield
counties have been increasingly slack, with vacancy rates
climbing to new highs and rents slipping roughly 4 percent over
the past year. Market conditions in metro Rochester have been
essentially flat.
Industrial markets have shown some signs of firming. In northern
New Jersey,  Long Island , Westchester and Fairfield counties,
industrial vacancy rates have been steady since the beginning of
the year, while rents are running 2-4 percent ahead of
comparable 2012 levels. Industrial vacancy rates across upstate
New York have continued to decline, reaching their lowest levels
in three years, while rents have also drifted down.  Other Business Activity  Non-manufacturing contacts report little change in business
conditions overall, though they have grown increasingly
optimistic about prospects for 2013. Contacts in the
manufacturing sector report a pickup in activity since the start
of the year and are increasingly optimistic about the near-term
outlook. A trucking industry analyst reports that truck tonnage
(shipments) strengthened substantially in both December and
January, after adjusting for seasonal variation.
In general, business contacts note some increase in input price
pressures but relatively few say they are increasing their own
selling prices.  There are scattered signs of improvement in the job market thus
far in 2013. A growing number of manufacturing contacts report
that they are increasing staffing levels and are increasingly
inclined to do so in the near future as well. A major employment
agency reports that demand for full-time workers has improved
slowly but steadily; while potential employers note that strong
job candidates are increasingly hard to find, most continue to
hold the line on salaries. The market for temps (contract
workers) is described as very strong, particularly for one-day
assignments.  Financial Developments  Small- to medium-sized banks report steady demand for consumer
loans but increased demand for all other categories of loans;
demand for refinancing was unchanged. Bankers report that credit
standards were unchanged across all loan categories. Respondents
indicate a decrease in spreads of loan rates over costs of funds
for all loan categories--particularly in residential mortgages,
where 40 percent of bankers indicate lower spreads and none
indicates higher spreads. Most also indicate a decrease in the
average deposit rate. Finally, banks report decreased
delinquency rates on commercial and industrial loans and
especially on commercial mortgages but indicate no change for
residential mortgages and consumer loans.
 