-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Kansas City District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2013-03-06T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-kansas-city-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Tenth District-- Kansas City.  The Tenth District economy showed modest improvement in
January and early February. Retail sales slowed during the
beginning of the year, but vehicle sales were improved compared
to a year ago. Manufacturing activity was weak among durable
goods manufacturers, but non-durable manufacturers saw a slight
improvement in activity, and high-tech services activity rose.
Residential real estate activity and prices increased, but
commercial real estate markets were flat. Bankers reported
modest growth in loan demand and improvements in loan quality.
Drought continued in the District and agriculture conditions
deteriorated further. District energy activity expanded during
the survey period. Wage pressures continued to be weak, but
there was some evidence of upward pressures on prices.  Consumer Spending.  Overall, consumer spending was weaker in late January and
February, but sales were expected to improve over the next three
months. Retail sales decreased since the last survey period, and
retailers expected flat growth during the next three months.
Store owners noted that low priced items and clothing sold well
during the survey period, but sales of high end items remained
slow. Auto sales were unchanged compared to the last survey
period but continued to be higher than a year ago. Inventories
increased, but dealers were satisfied with the overall levels.
Automobile sales expectations improved for the near term. Hotel
occupancy rates and tourist activity were unchanged and neither
expected a change in activity in the coming months. Restaurant
sales were also flat. Sales growth in the future was expected to
increase moderately, but was constrained by higher food costs.  Manufacturing and Other Business Activity.  District manufacturing activity weakened since the last
survey period. Production activity declined at most durable
goods manufacturers, but some improvements were seen in the non-
durable goods sector, especially by chemical producers.
Employment and new orders for exports fell compared to the
previous survey period. Factory managers continued to be
moderately optimistic about future activity. Production, new
orders, and shipments were all expected to grow over the next
few months. Manufacturers also reported that they expected
employment levels to increase, but contacts continued to be
concerned about tax and regulatory policies. High-tech service
firms reported an increase in activity and expected strong
growth during the next three months. Some contacts reported
difficulty finding skilled engineers and developers.
Transportation services activity was flat compared to the
previous survey period and a year ago. Expectations for future
transportation activity and sales were very strong, and contacts
reported difficulty finding qualified workers, especially over-
the-road drivers.  Real Estate and Construction.  Residential real estate showed brisk improvement since the
last survey period, but commercial real estate activity was
flat. Strong residential real estate sales continued to push
prices higher and to decrease the stock of residential
inventory. Real estate contacts noted that mid-to-low-priced
homes continued to be the strongest sellers, and that the high-
end market remained slow. Expectations for future housing
activity were high due to traditional increases during the
spring and summer months. Contacts also cited continued low
borrowing rates and improved overall confidence in the economy
as reasons for optimism. Sales at construction supply firms were
flat, but respondents indicated that future activity is expected
to be robust. New home starts were unchanged during the survey
period, but are expected to increase over the next three months.
Commercial real estate sales, prices, rents and vacancy rates
were all unchanged since the last survey period. However, new
construction was much improved compared to a year ago and
contacts expected new construction to continue to improve in the
coming months.  Banking.  Bankers generally reported steady or modest loan demand,
improving loan quality, and little change in total deposits in
the recent survey period. Most bankers described their overall
loan demand as the same as in the last survey, with a few
bankers reporting moderately stronger demand. Respondents, on
average, reported stable demand for commercial and industrial
loans, residential real estate loans, and consumer installment
loans, with some strengthening in demand for commercial real
estate loans. Interest rates on commercial and industrial loans
continued to show moderate declines. Most bankers reported
improved loan quality compared to a year ago, and they also
expected the outlook for loan quality to either improve or
remain about the same over the next six months. Credit standards
remained largely unchanged in all loan categories and
respondents reported total deposits as experiencing little
change since last month.  Agriculture.  Agricultural growing conditions deteriorated further with
persistent drought. Most of the winter wheat crop was in fair to
poor condition with low soil moisture. While still higher than
year-ago levels, crop prices edged down since the last survey
period with softer export demand and slower ethanol production.
Fed cattle prices held relatively steady, though feeder cattle
prices rose as continued herd liquidations trimmed already low
cow inventories. Robust demand from both farmers and nonfarm
investors pushed farmland values to new highs, particularly for
irrigated land due to water scarcity stemming from drought.
District bankers reported collateral requirements held steady
and ample funds were available for farm loans at historically
low interest rates.  Energy.  In the energy sector, activity in the district improved
slightly during the survey period and contacts expected further
moderate improvement in the coming months. The number of active
drilling rigs for both oil and natural gas were flat during the
beginning of 2013, but began to edge higher in February. Energy
contacts expected oil prices to remain at current levels during
the next three months as a result of balanced supply and demand
conditions. Natural gas prices were expected to decrease
slightly over the next three months due to weaker demand in the
spring and healthy supplies in storage. Wyoming coal output
continued to fall during January, which some contacts attributed
to more demand shifting to natural gas, with gas prices
remaining low.  Wages and Prices.  Wage pressures continued to be weak during the survey
period, but there was some upward pressure on prices. Firms
continued to report changes in health care policy and fiscal
uncertainty as reasons for delayed hiring. However, contacts in
high-tech services, transportation services and auto dealerships
noted they wished to hire, but are unable to find qualified
skilled labor. Organizations that serve low- and moderate-income
households also noted some improvement in job availability.
Prices for raw materials at manufacturing firms continued to
move higher, and more manufacturers plan to pass these costs
through to finished goods prices over the next six months.
Builders and construction supply firms both responded that input
prices for construction have increased and that prices are
expected to continue to rise over the next three months. Retail
prices have also increased recently and retailers expect to
raise prices further during the coming months. Increased food
costs have pushed restaurant menu prices up recently and
restaurant owners expect these costs to remain elevated.
Transportation services contacts also reported an increase in
input costs both in the current period and over the near term.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 