-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Boston District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2013-03-06T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-boston-district-text-.html
The following is the text of
the Federal Reserve Board’s First District--  Boston .  Economic activity continues to expand in the First District,
albeit slowly, according to business contacts. Most contacted
retailers but only one-half of responding manufacturers report
higher sales in the latest period than a year earlier;
nonetheless, most manufacturers are upbeat about 2013. Contacted
staffing services firms cite a pick-up in business, while
several software and IT services firms say their results are
below expectations although they maintain a positive outlook.
Commercial real estate fundamentals are largely unchanged, with
office leasing activity mixed. Most residential real estate
markets across the region continue to show robust sales growth
and modest price increases. Across sectors, vendor prices and
selling prices are reported to be generally stable and headcount
changes fairly modest, either up or down.  Retail and Tourism  Retailers contacted in this round report overall fiscal year
2012 sales increases mostly ranging from 1 percent to 3 percent
from 2011, with one source reporting a 7 percent year-over-year
rise; these firms completed their 2012 fiscal years either at
the end of December or in February. For January 2013,
comparable-store sales ranged from a 1 percent decrease to a 6
percent increase from January 2012. Demand continues to be
strong for clothing, home furnishings, and furniture, although a
few contacts cite some softening in February which they
attribute to consumer uncertainty regarding  job creation , budget
deficits, and the possible sequestration, as well as weather-
related issues that depressed store traffic in certain areas.
One contact notes that their customers often use tax refunds to
finance durable good purchases, and the American Taxpayer Relief
Act of 2012 enacted on January 2, 2013 has caused some people to
delay filing their returns. Respondents suggest it will be
easier to discern underlying sales trends in another month or
two. However, they continue to predict a low-growth economy and
a somewhat wary consumer in 2013.  Wholesale prices are reportedly holding steady.  As noted in the previous report, the  tourism industry  posted
record highs in 2012 for hotel occupancy rates and revenues.
Expectations for 2013 are that hotel occupancy will be flat or
down about 1 percent compared to 2012, but that room revenues
will be up about 6 percent. International travel is expected to
increase by about 9 percent over 2012, fueled by continuing
strong traffic from Europe and increased travel from  Australia 
and  South America , particularly from Argentina and  Brazil .
Increases in  gas prices  do not yet seem to be affecting regional
travelers. Restaurants continue to have less robust results than
hotels, with the average table check down compared to levels in
2009 to 2011.  Manufacturing and Related Services  Manufacturing firms in the First District continue to paint a
picture of a slow recovery. Of the 12 firms responding this
round, six report higher sales in the fourth quarter versus the
same period a year earlier, two report flat sales and four
report lower sales. In contrast to the mixed sales picture, 10
of the 12 firms say that their outlook for 2013 is positive.  Part of the disconnect reflects the highly cyclical
semiconductor industry, which accounts for two of the firms
reporting both negative growth in the fourth quarter and
positive expected growth in 2013. One firm in particular reports
that sales were down by more than one-third in the fourth
quarter but that orders are up almost 20 percent. Even some of
our own contacts appear to be puzzled at the combination of poor
sales results and optimism about growth for 2013; for example,
one says his firm--at which January sales were down 6 percent
year-on-year--wrote in planned sales growth of 4 percent to 8
percent in the second half “without any specific reason” except
that “everyone expects sales to strengthen.” A contact in the
home improvement goods industry notes that sales were strong in
the fourth quarter but cautions that tool sales lag increases in
housing starts by 6 to 9 months so it is too soon to tell if the
increase is seasonal or cyclical. A contact that supplies
material for filtration says the global picture is difficult to
pin down because Chinese New Year and the seasonal Christmas
shutdowns in  Europe  made year-on-year comparison particularly
difficult in recent months. Finally, several respondents
expressed uncertainty regarding  China , with one saying that some
of his Chinese customers reported dramatic reductions in sales,
inconsistent with government statistics.  Employment growth seems to be following sales and not the
outlook. Only four of our contacts report increased hiring in
the fourth quarter or planned increases in hiring in 2013 and
four report the opposite. A contact in the industrial
distribution business says that sales growth was negative for
much of the second half of last year but they held off staff
reductions until now. Three contacts cite difficulty finding the
right workers in everything from welding to life sciences.
Investment appeared similar to employment, with four firms
reporting higher investment or higher planned investment. A
manufacturer of fitness equipment says they are curtailing their
investment plans because of slower expected growth in sales.  Software and Information Technology Services  New England  software and information technology services
contacts generally report lackluster activity through February.
Several contacts cite weaker-than-expected demand and delays in
executing large license agreements, driven in part by economic
uncertainty, particularly in Europe and  Japan . By contrast, two
contacts--whose firms have experienced robust growth since 2010-
-expanded accounts with a number of global insurance companies,
bringing revenues in the fourth quarter to record highs. Many
contacts continue to slow the pace at which they are hiring.
Indeed, one contact shed approximately 150 jobs in the fourth
quarter and has since instituted a “soft hiring freeze”; two
other contacts now plan to maintain their current headcount
through the end of 2013, following increases of over 5 percent
in 2012. Selling prices and capital and technology spending have
gone largely unchanged. The outlook among New England software
and IT contacts is generally consistent with that of three
months ago, with most expecting more robust growth in the second
half of 2013.  Staffing Services  First District staffing contacts report that business continues
to strengthen. Labor market activity since January is
characterized as “improved” or “encouraging”, with all but one
contact registering a year-over-year increase in billable hours.
The continued growth reportedly reflects increases in labor
demand in the IT, industrial, and business services sectors
partially offset by a softening of demand for office and
clerical assistants and manufacturing personnel. The number of
permanent and temporary-to-permanent placements continues to
grow, with one contact reporting that permanent placements in
their professional business, which includes IT and engineering,
are up nearly 30 percent relative to a year ago. Labor supply
has gone largely unchanged since May 2012. Contacts continue to
have difficulty finding candidates with high-end skill sets such
as mechanical and electrical engineers, software developers, and
IT personnel; one respondent says this shortage of qualified
labor is putting upward pressure on pay rates. Looking forward,
staffing contacts are generally more upbeat than they were three
months ago, with most expecting steady or accelerated growth in
the second quarter.  Commercial Real Estate  Contacts across the First District offer somewhat mixed reports
concerning recent activity and the outlook, but note that
fundamentals are largely unchanged since the last report.
Leasing interest picked up slightly in Hartford in recent weeks
but has not resulted in an increase in completed lease deals nor
in significant absorption. In Boston, leasing inquiries remain
steady. One Boston contact notes that tenants express little
urgency to sign deals while another says that absorption
increased slightly in recent weeks. In Providence, leasing
activity picked up from last time and Class A downtown office
vacancies fell to just under 9 percent from roughly 15 percent a
year earlier. A Portland contact reports that leasing activity
is stable and office rents unchanged since the last report,
notwithstanding some newly announced plant closings in the
region that will result in layoffs.  Investment sales reportedly picked up in both Hartford and
Providence as some investors were priced out of primary markets
such as Boston. Across the region, multifamily structures remain
the favored investment class, but high quality office and
industrial structures are also seeing healthy demand. More
properties are coming up for sale in response to rising prices.
Some contacts are concerned that the high sales prices for
premier properties in Boston are increasingly out of line with
fundamentals. A regional lender notes a significant decline in
loan demand for commercial properties since December and cites
as possible reasons a temporary decline in the bank’s marketing
efforts together with a general climate of economic uncertainty.
Respondents raise concerns about overbuilding in Boston’s
apartment market and possibly also in its office sector. While
current office construction in Boston is pre-leased rather than
speculative, one contact notes that the intended tenants will
nonetheless generate significant vacancies at their current
locations in other parts of the city.  The outlook is largely unchanged in Portland and Boston, calling
for a continuation of slow growth. Upside risks to absorption
are cited for both Hartford and Providence, while contacts in
both Boston and Hartford note downside macroeconomic risks as a
threat to commercial real estate markets.  Residential Real Estate  Across New England, strong year-over-year sales growth continued
in December in both single-family home and condominium markets.
Initial sales figures for January suggest similarly robust year-
over-year growth. According to contacts, low  interest rates ,
affordable prices and improving economic conditions are all
helping to spur buyer activity. Some contacts note, however,
that a small increase in interest rates might actually spur
potential homebuyers to purchase more quickly. Overall, realtors
say they are confident in the strength of buyer demand, but
worry that declining inventory could damp sales growth. In
Greater Boston, realtors report that multiple bids on properties
have become increasingly common as inventory falls. Declining
inventory levels are putting upward pressure on prices in much
of the region although the median sale price in  New Hampshire 
slipped notwithstanding fewer listings.  In the next several months, contacts anticipate continued year-
over-year growth in sales and most express confidence that home
values will continue to appreciate. Some contacts, however, say
the strength of the improvements could be easily undermined if
the economic recovery slows. Inventory levels are expected to
rise in a few months with the onset of warmer weather, although
several contacts worry about whether the supply will adequately
sustain buyer interest.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 