-- U.S. Stresses Need for Iranian Action to Sustain ‘Hopeful’ Talks
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2013-03-06T16:08:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/u-s-stresses-need-for-iranian-action-to-sustain-hopeful-talks.html
Iran  needs to open its nuclear
program to wider checks to maintain negotiating momentum aimed
at defusing international tension over the possible military
dimensions of its atomic work, the U.S. said.  World powers see “the hopeful nature of continued
diplomacy” with Iran,  Joseph MacManus , U.S. envoy to the
International Atomic Energy Agency, told reporters in Vienna
today. “The time and place for a diplomatic solution is here
and now. There is no cause for a further delay.”  The IAEA’s 35-member board of governors convened its
quarterly meeting today to review the decade-long investigation
into Iran’s nuclear program. The IAEA reported last month that
while it hasn’t detected anything awry with Iran’s declared
nuclear work, inspectors don’t have enough access to people,
places and documents to rule out illicit activities.  Iran, with the world’s fourth-biggest proven oil reserves,
maintains its nuclear work is peaceful. Iranian officials met
last month with the so-called P5+1 group -- comprised of  China ,
 Germany ,  France ,  Russia , the U.K. and U.S. -- to find a
diplomatic way out of the confrontation. Israel and the U.S.
haven’t ruled out military strikes to stop the program.  “The time is well past that Iran already should have taken
substantive steps to address all outstanding issues, and further
delay is not acceptable,” MacManus said. The IAEA’s board may
need to “hold Iran accountable” for not taking action, he
said.  Parchin Base  IAEA investigators want access to sites including the
Parchin military base, about 20 kilometers (12 miles) southeast
of Tehran. Inspectors’ inability to share information with Iran
that it received from unidentified intelligence agencies has
hampered the investigation. Iran’s insistence that it be able to
review the documents has received support from the so-called
Non-Aligned Movement bloc of developing countries.  The group, representing more than 120 nations, is asking
that the IAEA “provides all related documents to Iran,” the
bloc said in a statement read late yesterday by Iran’s IAEA
envoy, Ali Asghar Soltanieh. The IAEA has called the
intelligence information “credible.”  P5+1 negotiations will be “pursued actively in the months
ahead on the basis of reciprocity and a step-by-step approach,”
the group said late yesterday in a statement issued at the IAEA.
The P5+1 is “deeply concerned” by Iran’s January decision to
upgrade uranium production technology at its plant in Natanz.  “The second Almaty negotiations will no doubt be brighter
and more promising than the previous talks,” Fereydoun Abbasi,
who heads the Iranian Atomic Energy Organization, was quoted as
saying today in Tehran by the Fars news agency. Iran is due to
meet the P5+1 group April 5 in Almaty, Kazakhstan.  “Diplomacy has not worked,” Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu said on March 4 via satellite to a pro- Israel 
U.S. lobbying group meeting in  Washington . Iran is “running out
the clock,” he said. “It has used negotiations, including the
most recent ones, in order to buy time to press ahead with its
nuclear program.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  