-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Cleveland District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2013-03-06T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-cleveland-district-text-.html
The following is the text of
the Federal Reserve Board’s Fourth District--  Cleveland .  The economy in the Fourth District grew at a modest pace since
our last report. Manufacturing orders and production were steady
or rose slightly. The momentum seen in residential construction
at the end of 2012, including multi-family, has carried over
into 2013. Nonresidential construction showed some slowing.
Retail purchases during January fell below year-ago levels,
while motor vehicle sales posted solid gains on a year-over-year
basis. Little change was seen in conventional oil and natural
gas production, but shale gas activity expanded at a robust
pace. Output at coal mines trended lower. Freight transport
volume exceeded projections made late last year. And demand for
business and consumer credit was flat.
Hiring was sluggish across industry sectors. Staffing-firm
representatives reported that the number of  job openings  and
placements picked up slightly since the beginning of the year.
Vacancies were found primarily in the shale gas and motor
vehicle industries and in professional business services. Wage
pressures were contained. Input prices were stable, apart from
increases in construction materials and some petroleum-based
products.  Manufacturing. Reports from District factories indicated that
new orders and production were steady or up slightly during the
past six weeks. Companies seeing increases were largely
suppliers to the energy, residential construction, and
transportation industries. Defense contractors cited concerns
about the potential downside effects of sequestration. Compared
to a year ago, production activity was mixed. Steel producers
and service centers described shipping volume as slightly higher
since the start of 2013 relative to the previous quarter. Many
manufacturing contacts are somewhat more optimistic about near-
term growth prospects than they were late in the fourth quarter.
Auto production at District plants increased along seasonal
trends during January on a month-over-month basis. Compared to a
year ago, production was moderately lower, especially for
domestic makers.  Inventories are aligned with demand. Steel producers reported
that capacity utilization rose slightly during the past few
weeks; other factory contacts said that rates were within or
slightly below their normal range.  Capital expenditures  were on
plan for the fiscal year. Most outlays are for technology that
will be used to enhance productivity. Raw material prices were
flat or trended lower, except for increases in some petroleum-
based products. Finished goods prices held steady. On balance,
manufacturing payrolls were little changed. Wage pressures are
contained, although rising health insurance premiums remain a
challenge.  Real Estate. Home builders reported that the upturn in sales of
new single-family homes continued into January, and that sales
were significantly higher than a year-ago. Contracts were found
mainly in the mid- to higher-price-point categories. Demand for
multifamily housing remains strong, particularly in urban areas,
and the turnover rate for apartments has been trending lower.
While builders expressed confidence that the improvement in the
housing market will persist in the upcoming months, they still
see the appraisal process and the availability of financing as
headwinds to more robust growth. List prices of new homes are
increasing, which was attributed to shrinking inventories and
rising construction costs. Builders have cut back on
discounting.  Nonresidential contractors experienced some slowing in business
activity, when compared to the fourth quarter of last year.
Margins are still tight and inquiries were down slightly.
Builders noted that stress on government budgets is choking the
supply of projects, especially defense-related. One contractor
stated that uncertainty has eased somewhat and the number of
potential clients is growing. But transforming proposals into
signed contracts remains challenging, which is due in part to
difficulty in obtaining financing. Project work is found mainly
in manufacturing, distribution, and large multifamily
developments. Our contacts are cautious about near-term activity
and expect slow to moderate growth, mainly from private-sector
clients.  Residential and nonresidential builders reported substantially
higher prices for lumber (plywood and softwood), drywall, and to
a lesser extent, concrete. General contractors are concerned
about subcontractors raising their rates by the second half of
this year. The potential increase was attributed to a dwindling
number of subcontracting businesses and stronger demand.
Residential builders are expanding payrolls at a modest pace,
mainly field personnel, while nonresidential builders have
stopped hiring due to uncertainty about future demand.  Consumer Spending . Many retailers we spoke with reported that
January sales fell below year-ago levels. Higher taxes were
cited as a potential contributing factor. Nonetheless, some of
these contacts described January results as good or strong. We
heard one report that high-end and lower-cost brands were doing
better than products aimed at middle-income consumers. Increased
volume was seen in apparel and firearms. Most of our contacts
anticipate that transactions in the upcoming months will be
above year-ago levels, in the low to mid-single digits. However,
there is concern about the impact of rising gasoline prices on
spending by lower-income households. Vendor and shelf prices
held steady. Inventories rose slightly, but they were described
as manageable. Capital expenditures were on plan for the fiscal
year. No hiring is anticipated, except for staffing new stores.  Sales of new motor vehicles grew at a robust pace during January
when compared to the same time period a year ago. Dealers
credited milder-than-normal January weather and pent-up demand
for the sales boost. Purchases of smaller, fuel-efficient cars,
crossovers, and compact SUVs are doing well. New-vehicle
inventories were higher than most dealers would like. Our
contacts are cautiously optimistic about sales prospects during
the next few months. Some commented that the upcoming regional
auto shows typically have a positive impact on consumers’
willingness to buy. Sales of used vehicles rose moderately
during January. Leasing continued to trend higher, which should
help to replenish the used-vehicle inventory. We heard two
reports about further easing in financing new vehicles. A few
dealers are considering increasing their sales staff if volume
continues at the current pace. Dealers in the eastern part of
the District are apprehensive about losing technicians to the
shale gas industry, which may put upward pressure on wages.  Banking. Demand for business credit was little changed across
sectors and product categories since our last report. A few
large banks noted a slowdown in loan applications during
January, while community bankers saw a rise in demand for
commercial real estate loans. Reports on  consumer credit  also
indicated little change in demand. Credit card balances were
coming down, while activity in home-equity products and auto
lending picked up. The residential mortgage market was
characterized as strong; however, some of our contacts cited a
decline in the number of applicants from a year ago. Delinquency
rates held steady or declined across consumer and commercial
loan categories. Aggregate core deposits grew, but there was a
slight drop-off in business and public-sector deposits. Bankers
remain very concerned about shrinking net interest margins. In
response, they are considering broad-based cost-control
initiatives, which include layoffs.
Energy. Coal production declined across the District relative to
2012 levels, with the largest decreases seen in northern  West
Virginia  and eastern  Kentucky . The downward trend in production
is expected to continue in the near term. Falling prices for
metallurgical coal leveled off, while steam-coal prices were
mixed. Conventional oil and natural gas production was steady
during the past couple of months, with little change expected
during the next quarter. In contrast, shale gas activity
expanded at a robust pace. Well-head prices have stabilized.
 Capital spending  in the conventional oil and gas industry is
expected to remain low until drilling picks up in late spring or
summer. One contact said that he will drill fewer wells this
year due to credit restrictions. Coal producers have cut back on
capital expenditures. Production equipment and material prices
were flat across most categories. Shale gas producers expanded
payrolls, while employment at conventional oil and gas firms was
flat. We heard several reports of layoffs by coal operators.
Many of our contacts pointed to rising health insurance premiums
as a concern.  Freight Transportation. For the most part, our contacts reported
that shipping volume met or exceeded projections made late in
2012. Higher volume was attributed to stronger demand from the
energy sector, rerouting of container traffic, and some residual
effects of  Hurricane Sandy . Freight executives were fairly
positive in their outlook for 2013, but they were uncertain
whether the boost in activity seen during a traditionally slow
part of the shipping season is sustainable. Diesel fuel prices
rose, which some carriers passed through via surcharges. Costs
associated with equipment and maintenance items were stable.
Reports on capital spending were mixed. Some freight haulers
have increased budgets significantly for new equipment this
year. Others are postponing equipment replacement until they are
certain that the economy is on solid footing. Hiring is
primarily for replacement. Wage pressures are surfacing due to
difficulty in finding and keeping qualified drivers. There were
a few reports about a potential driver shortage during the
summer.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 