-- UBS Said to Face O’Connor Hedge-Fund Defections on Bonus
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   R u h l e   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-03-06T18:21:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/ubs-said-to-face-o-connor-hedge-fund-defections-on-bonus.html
UBS O’Connor LLC, the $6 billion
hedge-fund unit within the  biggest Swiss bank , risks upheaval as
senior traders seek to defect after a clampdown on cash bonuses,
two people with direct knowledge of the situation said.  Traders are contacting other hedge funds and recruiters
after  UBS AG (UBSN)  moved them to a pay structure used throughout the
firm, said the people, who requested anonymity because their
plans to leave aren’t public. That resulted in immediate cash
bonuses falling by 50 percent to 1 million Swiss francs ($1.06
million), and some deferred pay being tied to five-year UBS
bonds rather than reinvested in O’Connor funds, the people said.  The potential defections show the struggles the biggest
banks may face in retaining top traders at internal hedge funds
amid shareholder and regulatory pressure on pay and rules that
limit how much of a firm’s capital can be invested in the funds.  “This structure is analogous to working within a bank,”
said Ilana Weinstein, chief executive officer of New York-based
search firm IDW Group LLC. “But what’s the likeness of
O’Connor? It’s a hedge fund, and this structure is not
competitive with working at another hedge fund.”  Departures may hamper CEO  Sergio Ermotti ’s efforts to rely
more on wealth and asset management while cutting expenses by
3.4 billion francs in the next three years. O’Connor manages
about one-fifth of UBS’s 28 billion francs of alternative and
quantitative investments, the Zurich-based company’s highest-
margin asset-management group. UBS O’Connor invests only client
funds and not the bank’s, the people said.  ‘Credibly Compete’  “We believe our people choose to be here based on a
combination of our team culture, access to client capital and
UBS distribution,” Bill Ferri, head of the alternative and
quantitative investments business, said in an e-mailed
statement. “I am fully committed to continuing to grow the
O’Connor business and am confident that we can credibly compete
while aligning with the long-term interests of our clients and
UBS shareholders.”  O’Connor offers a global multistrategy fund, a fundamental
market-neutral fund, and several long-short equity funds,
according to its  website . The unit has a staff of about 175,
including about 90 front-office employees, according to a person
with knowledge of the group. Most of the personnel are based in
 Chicago , with others in  New York ,  London ,  Hong Kong ,  Singapore 
and  Tokyo , the person said.  Fitzpatrick, Schrage  The unit’s core Global Multi-Strategy Fund returned more
than 8 percent to investors last year and more than 10 percent
annually since its June 2000 inception, one of the people said.
Multistrategy hedge funds fell 4.5 percent on average last year,
according to  data compiled by Bloomberg .  O’Connor’s trading teams report to Chief Investment Officer
Dawn Fitzpatrick and the group’s traders include portfolio
manager Kipp Schrage, the person said.  All employees who made more than $250,000 in 2012 had at
least 60 percent of their pay exceeding that amount deferred,
UBS said earlier this year. The firm also lowered its cap on
immediate cash bonuses to 1 million francs last year from 2
million francs for 2011. O’Connor traders will get half of their
deferred pay in five-year debt that can be canceled if UBS’s
Basel III tier 1 common ratio drops below 7 percent, the people
said. The ratio under fully applied Basel III rules stood at 9.8
percent on Dec. 31.  Deferred Pay  O’Connor employees got 40 percent of their 2011 bonuses in
cash, up to 2 million francs, and deferred pay was reinvested in
O’Connor funds and vested in equal annual installments over
three years, one of the people said. There were no caps on
immediate cash bonuses before 2009, the person said.  The new bonus structure pulls traders’ incentives further
away from hedge funds’ traditional fee system of 2 percent of
assets and 20 percent of profits, said Fabio Savoldelli, a
finance professor at  Columbia University  in New York.  “You’ve got to look at it from the investor’s point of
view,” Savoldelli said today in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Market Makers” program. “I want them
compensated 2 and 20. You make money, you make money; you lose
money, you get nothing. That’s the culture, to some degree, that
you want to have.”  Most hedge funds reward employees based on the performance
of the funds, with no limits on cash compensation and deferred
pay most often being reinvested in the funds. Consultants who
advise institutional investors on which hedge funds to invest
with view pay structures like UBS’s as a risk of a bank-owned
fund, said IDW’s Weinstein.  ‘Competing Factors’  “They don’t like the risk of comp being decided by bank
CEOs, because you have other competing factors, like driving up
the stock and paying other parts of the bank,” she said.
“There’s not clear alignment between incenting and rewarding
your top-performing investment managers within the fund.”  UBS’s asset-management unit cut  personnel costs  in 2012 by
7.2 percent to the lowest level since 2003. That helped the
division post the highest pretax profit since 2008. The
alternative and quantitative unit produced 268 million francs of
revenue, 14 percent of total asset management revenue, and the
highest gross margin among UBS’s asset-management products.  O’Connor & Associates was founded in 1977 by mathematician
Michael Greenbaum, with funding from brothers Edmund and William
O’Connor, according to the 1999 book  “The Predictors ” by
Thomas A. Bass, who wrote that the firm “made money hand over
fist” and “developed a cult of secrecy.”  The brothers started trade-clearing firm O’Connor & Co. in
1959, and Edmund was the architect of the  Chicago Board Options
Exchange , according to his 2011 obituary in the Wall Street
Journal. William, who died in 1999, was  chairman  of the Chicago
Board of Trade.  O’Connor & Associates was started as a private partnership
focused on market-making and derivatives trading, according to
UBS’s website. Swiss Bank Corp., a UBS predecessor, bought
O’Connor in 1992. UBS O’Connor’s traders developed the bank’s
equities proprietary-trading desk before opening hedge funds to
clients in 2000.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Stephanie Ruhle  in New York at 
 sruhle2@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  