-- Lufthansa Plans Budget First-Class to Help Fill Costliest Seats
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2013-03-06T11:34:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/lufthansa-plans-budget-first-class-to-help-fill-costliest-seats.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG will sell
first-class seats at a discount to people willing to give up
booking flexibility as the German carrier seeks to squeeze more
revenue from its most exclusive product.  The so-called tourism first-class will have a minimum lead
time for bookings and carry restrictions on cancellations and
changes, Lufthansa board member Jens Bischof said at the ITB
travel fair in Berlin today. The actual on-board experience will
be the same as for full first-class, he said.  “The tourist offer is shaped in a totally different way
from the business offer, but you can use it for holiday
travel,” Bischof said.  The tourist version of a first-class flight to Bangkok from
 Frankfurt  next week will sell for about 4,500 euros ($5,865),
less than half the full fare, according to Lufthansa’s website.
 Europe ’s second-biggest airline is splitting its offering to tap
a wider group of travelers, with the introduction of a premium-
economy class planned next year and the Germanwings subsidiary
picking up travelers in non-hub cities throughout  Germany .  Lufthansa said last month that it will reduce the
proportion of long-haul planes with first-class seats to 75
percent, responding to waning demand for tickets that can
command the price of a small car. The carrier currently has top-
end cabins in more than 90 percent of its wide-body fleet.  New Routes  Under the first-class initiative announced today, a regular
fare to  New York  will cost 8,499 euros, compared with 5,499
euros for the “budget” alternative. The reduced fare will be
available to more than 40 long-haul destinations.  Restrictions include a minimum six-day stay on the U.S.
east coast, or 10 days elsewhere, which can be canceled for a
fee of 400 euros. Air miles will still accrue and other perks,
such as the baggage allowance and a chauffeur, remain the same.  As part of the summer timetable, Lufthansa will add flights
from Frankfurt to destinations including the Spanish holiday
island of Ibiza and Antalya in  Turkey , it said today. It will
also add service from Munich to  Vancouver , the island of
Menorca, and the British cities of Cardiff and Glasgow.  Capacity will be “stable” compared with a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Berlin at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  