-- Ukrainian Court Strips Tymoshenko Ally of Parliament Seat
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a   a n d   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 2013-03-06T16:38:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/ukrainian-court-strips-tymoshenko-ally-of-parliament-seat.html
A Ukrainian court stripped lawmaker
Serhiy Vlasenko, an ally of jailed opposition leader Yulia Tymoshenko of his parliamentary seat, widening a rift with the
European Union and the U.S.  Ukraine ’s High Administrative Court unseated Vlasenko today
at the request of House Speaker Volodymyr Rybak, who said the
lawmaker continued to work as a lawyer. Vlasenko denied the
allegation, saying he stopped practicing law in 2008, though he
has advised the defense counsel of Tymoshenko, who is accused of
being involved in the murder of a politician in 1996.  The EU postponed an association and free-trade agreement
with Ukraine indefinitely after Tymoshenko, a former prime
minister and political foe of President Viktor Yanukovych, was
jailed in 2011, a move the EU and U.S. to considered “selective
justice.” The EU has given the former Soviet republic three
months to carry out changes to its justice and electoral systems
to seal the trade pact.  “We note with particular concern efforts to deprive Serhiy
Vlasenko of his seat in Parliament, his corresponding immunity
from prosecution, and his right to travel outside Ukraine,”
Patrick Ventrell, acting deputy spokesman at the U.S. State
Department, said in an e-mailed note today. “We call on
Ukrainian authorities to end politically motivated prosecutions
of opposition leaders and abide by international commitments to
the rule of law and democracy.”  Tymoshenko, who denies all charges, is already serving
seven years in prison for abuse of power for signing a 10-year
natural gas accord with  Russia  when she was premier in January
2009.  Ashton, Fule  EU Commissioners Catherine Ashton and Stefan Fule are
paying “particular attention to the situation related to the
case of Vlasenko” and “call on Ukrainian authorities to
address this situation so as to avoid creating any perception of
misuse of the judiciary for political purposes,” the two said
in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Opposition parties, including Tymoshenko’s party, world
boxing champion Vitali Klitschko’s UDAR party and the Svoboda
party, have physically blocked the parliament for two days,
protesting the move against Vlasenko.  “Their goal is to knock off protection from Tymoshenko,”
Arseniy Yatsenyuk, the leader of Tymoshenko’s party group in the
legislature, said after the court’s verdict. “An appeal will be
prepared tonight to be filed to the European Court of Human
Rights.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net ;
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  