-- Hungary May Show Restraint in Mortgage Help Plans, Concorde Says
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2013-03-06T12:46:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/hungary-may-show-restraint-in-mortgage-help-plans-concorde-says.html
The Hungarian government may show
self-restraint when devising measures to help foreign-currency
borrowers as it needs banks to prop up lending and lead the
economy out of recession, Concorde Securities Zrt. said.  The Cabinet wants banks to convert foreign-currency
mortgages to forint and forgive part of the debt for borrowers
with payments overdue more than 90 days, news website Nol
reported today, without saying how it got the information. The
central bank may help lenders get access to foreign currency
from its reserves, Nol said. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank and the
government haven’t commented.  “It seems the government is more cautious in tackling the
foreign-currency debt issue,” Attila Gyurcsik, an analyst at
Concorde in Budapest, said in a telephone interview today.
Cleaning up bad debt “is useful in the long term and shouldn’t
prompt a negative market reaction.”  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  allowed the early repayment of
foreign-currency mortgages at below-market rates in 2011,
forcing banks to swallow losses. Along with  Europe ’s highest
bank levy, the move turned local lenders unprofitable for the
first time in 13 years in 2011, sapped investor confidence and
contributed to a plunge in lending. The Cabinet is seeking an
agreement with lenders on boosting credit as it battles its
second recession in four years.  The forint weakened 0.1 percent to 298.92 per euro by 12:55
p.m., falling a third day. OTP Bank Nyrt., the country’s largest
lender gained 0.9 percent to 4,846 forint, helping lead the
benchmark BUX stock index 1.5 percent higher.  ‘Will Talk’  Hungary will "obviously talk about this,”  Mihaly Varga , 
Economy Minister designate, told TV2 March 4 in response to a 
question whether the Cabinet and the central bank will tap 
foreign-currency reserves, adding that Hungary needs “further 
steps” to help mortgage holders. The government will agree with 
banks on further steps to help these borrowers, he said.  Hungary should be “very careful” with its foreign-
currency reserves and the government must leave the central bank
to determine their use, Orban told reporters in Warsaw today.  The central bank may seek the help of the  Swiss National
Bank  in the planned conversion of franc-denominated loans, daily
Magyar Nemzet reported today, without citing anyone. The SNB
hasn’t been contacted by Hungary so far, spokesman Walter Meier
said in an e-mail today.  Hungarians borrowed predominantly in Swiss francs and euros
to take advantage of lower  interest rates . The subsequent
weakening of the forint sent repayments soaring, triggering a
jump in non-performing loans. The amount of foreign-currency
mortgages overdue more than 90 days was 541 billion forint ($2.4
billion) at the end of 2012, according to central bank data.  Further Measures  The government, in agreement with banks, introduced further
programs to help borrowers last year. Under one of these plans,
which ran out in September, banks converted non-performing loans
to forint and wrote down 25 percent of the debt in exchange for
deducting some of their losses from the bank levy.  The central bank allocated 810 million euros ($1.1 billion)
to domestic lenders at the time of the early repayment and a
further 36 million euros for subsequent debt relief programs,
according to central bank data.  Lenders asked that talks with the government and civil
associations on foreign-currency mortgages be delayed, citing a
lack of information from the Cabinet, state news service MTI
said yesterday, citing Agnes Suto, communications director at
the Hungarian Banking Association.  Changed Tone  The planned measures would affect about 100,000 households,
which are more than three months late with their loan
repayments, Nol said.  The government is under pressure to reignite growth, which
means that it can’t force banks to book further “huge losses”
on foreign-currency loans, Zoltan Reczey, analyst at Budapest-
based Buda-Cash Brokerhaz Zrt. said in a telephone interview
today.  “Therefore, these new planned measures won’t cause such a
huge drama as the early repayment,” Reczey said. The parties
may find a solution that doesn’t “do banks in and won’t turn
the budget upside down” as there’s a “change in the
government’s tone toward banks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  