-- Hungary Banks Ready for Compromise on Franc Loans, Gyuris Says
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s   a n d   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2013-03-06T16:22:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/hungary-banks-ready-for-compromise-on-franc-loans-gyuris-says.html
Hungarian lenders are open to
writing off part of overdue foreign-currency mortgage loans in
exchange for a reduction in  Europe ’s highest bank tax, said
Daniel Gyuris, acting head of the Hungarian Bank Association.  So far there have only been “indications” that the
Cabinet is considering measures to help borrowers with mostly
Swiss-franc home loans, even as no official talks are under way
between lenders and the government, Gyuris, who is a deputy
chief executive officer of  OTP Bank Nyrt. (OTP) , Hungary’s largest
lender, said in a phone interview today. A deal could be reached
“relatively fast,” he said.  Prime Minister Viktor Orban allowed the early repayment of
foreign-currency mortgages at below-market rates in 2011,
forcing banks to swallow losses. Along with Europe’s highest
bank levy, the move turned local lenders unprofitable for the
first time in 13 years in 2011, sapped investor confidence and
contributed to a plunge in lending.  The Cabinet is seeking an agreement with lenders on
boosting credit as it battles its second recession in four years
while trying to help borrowers whose repayments soared with the
weakening of the currency.  Creating Incentives  Reducing the bank levy in exchange for writing off part of
the overdue foreign-currency home loans “would create
incentives for borrowers as well without posing a threat to
financial stability,” Gyuris said.  The forint weakened 0.4 percent to 299.76 per euro by 4:43
p.m., falling a third day to the weakest level since Jan. 28.
OTP shares gained 0.7 percent to 4,836 forint, helping lead the
benchmark BUX stock index 0.8 percent higher.  The Cabinet wants banks to convert foreign-currency
mortgages to forint and forgive part of the debt for borrowers
with payments overdue more than 90 days, news website Nol
reported today, without saying how it got the information. The
central bank may help lenders get access to foreign currency
from its reserves, Nol said. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank and the
government haven’t commented.  Hungary will “obviously talk about this,”  Mihaly Varga ,
economy minister designate, told TV2 March 4 in response to a
question whether the Cabinet and the central bank will tap
foreign-currency reserves to stimulate the economy and help
mortgage holders. He added that decisions about using reserves
belonged to the central bank.  ‘Very Careful’  Hungary should be “very careful” with its foreign-
currency reserves and the government must leave the central bank
to determine their use, Orban told reporters in Warsaw today.  “It seems the government is more cautious in tackling the
foreign-currency debt issue,” Attila Gyurcsik, an analyst at
Concorde Securities Zrt. in Budapest, said by phone today.
Cleaning up bad debt “is useful in the long term and shouldn’t
prompt a negative market reaction.”  The central bank may seek the help of the Swiss National
Bank in the planned conversion of franc-denominated loans, the
newspaper Magyar Nemzet reported today, without citing anyone.
The SNB hasn’t been contacted by  Hungary  so far, spokesman
Walter Meier said in an e-mail.  Hungarians borrowed predominantly in Swiss francs and euros
to take advantage of lower interest rates. The subsequent
weakening of the forint sent repayments soaring, triggering a
jump in non-performing loans. The amount of foreign-currency
mortgages overdue more than 90 days was 541 billion forint ($2.4
billion) at the end of 2012, according to central bank data.  Further Measures  The government, in agreement with banks, introduced further
programs to help borrowers last year. Under one of these plans,
which ended in September, banks converted non-performing loans
to forint and wrote down 25 percent of the debt in exchange for
deducting some of their losses from the bank levy.  The central bank allocated 810 million euros ($1.1 billion)
to domestic lenders at the time of the early repayment and a
further 36 million euros for subsequent debt relief programs,
according to central bank data.  Lenders asked that talks with the government and civil
associations on foreign-currency mortgages be delayed, citing a
lack of information from the Cabinet, state news service MTI
said yesterday, citing Agnes Suto, communications director at
the Hungarian Banking Association.  Changed Tone  The planned measures would affect about 100,000 households
that are more than three months late with their loan repayments,
Nol said.  The government is under pressure to reignite growth, which
means that it can’t force banks to book further “huge losses”
on foreign-currency loans, Zoltan Reczey, analyst at Budapest-
based Buda-Cash Brokerhaz Zrt. said by phone today.  “Therefore, these new planned measures won’t cause such a
huge drama as the early repayment,” Reczey said. The parties
may find a solution that doesn’t “do banks in and won’t turn
the budget upside down” as there’s a “change in the
government’s tone toward banks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  