-- UnitedHealth Seeks ‘Doc Fix’ in Push to Kill  Rate Cuts
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-03-06T15:59:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/unitedhealth-seeks-doc-fix-in-push-to-kill-rate-cuts.html
UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)  is among
insurers that have told the Obama administration a proposed
reduction in U.S. payments for Medicare Advantage plans relies
on the faulty assumption that doctors’ fees will fall.  Insurers are asking the administration to backtrack on next
year’s 2.2 percent reimbursement reduction for Medicare
Advantage plans, in which private companies cover benefits for
the elderly instead of the government. The companies, in written
responses to a Feb. 15 proposal by the Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services, said the cuts don’t add up.  Medicare’s calculation assumes Congress will let stand a 25
percent decrease in doctors’ pay, which is a component of the
overall reimbursement to the insurance companies. That trimming
of rates to physicians is required by a provision in a 15-year-
old balanced budget deal that has been overridden by Congress
every year since 2002 in a maneuver nicknamed “The Doc Fix.”  “CMS is assuming a 30 percent cut to physician payments
that everyone in Washington knows will never take effect,”
 Robert Zirkelbach , a spokesman for the Washington-based lobbying
group America’s Health Insurance Plans, said by telephone using
his own calculations for the reduction.  Justine Handelman, executive director for legislative and
regulatory policy at the Chicago-based Blue Cross and Blue
Shield Association, asked for “a zero percent adjustment.” She
said in a letter that the Medicare agency needs to account for
the scenario that Congress overturning the doctor pay cuts is
“an event that can be considered reasonably likely to occur.”  Budget Act  Isabella Leung, a spokeswoman for CMS, said in an e-mail
that the agency assumes current law in all proposed rates. She
declined to speak further because the agency is still reviewing
public comments. The decreases in payments would be finalized
April 1 unless Congress acts to make the Doc Fix calculation.  There may not be enough time for such action as lawmakers
are preoccupied with a broader fight over deficit reductions.  America’s Health Insurance Plans said the cuts will lead to
reductions in benefits and higher out-of-pocket costs for the
13.1 million people enrolled in Medicare Advantage plans.  “To prevent the MA program from going into a tailspin, the
agency needs to implement a solution that will be big enough to
solve the problem,” Karen Ignagni, president and chief
executive officer of the lobbying group, said in a March 1
 letter  protesting the rule.  The cut in doctors’ pay is ordered by a formula called the
Sustainable Growth Rate, created as part the 1997 Balanced
Budget Act. Minnetonka, Minnesota-based UnitedHealth, the
largest Medicare Advantage insurer with about 2.6 million
members, said in a letter to Medicare that every 5 percent cut
in payments to doctors leads to a 1 percent reduction in
Medicare Advantage payments.  Zirkelbach put the doctors’ payment cut at about 30 percent
and said reversing the reduction would improve the rates to
insurers by four to five percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in  Washington  at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  