-- Urbi Leads Homebuilder Rally as Mexico Pledges Loan Support
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   V e r b r i g g h e   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-03-06T23:08:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/urbi-leads-homebuilder-rally-as-mexico-pledges-loan-support-1-.html
Urbi Desarrollos Urbanos SAB (URBI*)  led a
surge in homebuilders after  Mexico  offered to cover as much as
30 percent of banks’ losses on loans made to the nation’s
homebuilders.  Urbi soared 19 percent to 4.8 pesos in Mexico City trading,
the biggest gain since October 2008.  Desarrolladora Homex SAB (HOMEX*) 
and  Corp. Geo SAB (GEOB)  each rose 14 percent. The  Habita (HABITA)  index of six
homebuilders surged 11 percent, the most since November 2008.  Bonds also rallied. Yields on dollar debt from Homex,
Mexico’s biggest homebuilder, due in March 2020 tumbled 92 basis
points, or 0.92 percentage point, to 9.82 percent today,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It’s the biggest yield
drop since the debt was issued in February 2012. The yield on
dollar debt from Urbi due in 2022 declined 80 basis points to 13
percent, after a 38 basis-point drop yesterday.  Urbi, Geo and Homex each said in separate statements to the
Mexico stock exchange that they had nothing to disclose
regarding the increase in their shares.  Homebuilders’ securities, which have plunged this year
after disappointing earnings and credit rating reductions,
rebounded after today’s announcement eased concern about the
industry’s ability to access financing. Those with “healthy
balance sheets” will have access to additional funding of as
much as 15 billion pesos ($1.2 billion), according to a
statement today from the  Finance Ministry .  ‘Positive Sign’  Concern about the homebuilding industry has increased since
President Enrique Pena Nieto said Feb. 11 that he will use the
government’s subsidized-housing program to promote urban
apartment building projects, which require longer planning,
building and sales cycles than single-construction housing.  While the industry still requires a more comprehensive
solution, the government’s announcement is positive for
homebuilders in the short-term, said Aldo Miranda, an equity
trader at Intercam Casa de Bolsa SA in Mexico City.  The guarantees are “a positive sign from the government
showing they are willing to work together and provide the tools
for them to recover from this crisis,” Miranda said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Verbrigghe in  New York  at 
 dverbrigghe@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  