-- Murdoch’s Fox Sports on Path to Profit With Yankees Games
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-03-06T21:11:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/murdoch-s-fox-sports-on-path-to-profit-with-yankees-games.html
Rupert Murdoch ’s 15-year drive to
create a competitor to  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ESPN has put  News
Corp. (NWSA) ’s new national sports network on a path to show a profit
within two to three years.  Fox Sports 1, announced yesterday by New York-based News
Corp., will be available to more than 90 million pay-TV homes
and draw from existing rights to the  New York Yankees , Nascar,
the  World Cup , college sports and UFC martial-arts bouts carried
on its regional sports channels and networks like FX.  The investments provide a foundation of live events for Fox
Sports 1 as it begins operation in August. The new network can
share the costs of programming, back-office functions, sales and
production with other News Corp. outlets, said Lee Berke,
president of LHB Sports Entertainment Media, which helps leagues
create channels.  “They are not starting from scratch,” Berke said. “The
road to profitability is much shorter for them than a channel
that’s just starting out.”  News Corp. has rights to Pac-12 and Big 12 college
basketball and football games and owns at least 20 regional
sports networks, including three of the five most-watched: No. 1
YES Network, which News Corp. bought 49 percent of last year,
Fox Sports Southwest and Fox Sports West.  Fox can carry as many as 18 of YES Network’s  New York 
Yankees baseball games nationally starting in 2014, Sports
Business Journal reported in January.  Regional Deals  The company also has U.S. TV rights to soccer’s World Cup
in 2018 and 2022, the English Premier League and the annual
Champions League tournament.  News Corp. has structured its Major League Baseball deal to
include national access to some games that air regionally, said
 Neal Pilson , a former CBS Sports president and founder of Pilson
Communications, which advises teams and leagues. That’s limited
the investment in Fox Sports 1 to the tens of millions of
dollars, he estimated -- barring costly new programming deals.  For example, when the Yankees and the  Los Angeles  Angels
play, Fox Sports can air the game nationally, because both teams
are carried on its regional channels, Pilson said.  The new network will be profitable in two to three years,
Pilson estimates. He expects Fox Sports 1 to generate about $1
billion a year in subscriber fees to start, plus advertising and
sponsorship revenue.  ‘A Cornerstone’  “A lot of the profitability question will be decided
internally by Fox,” Pilson said. “It will largely depend on
how they allocate rights fees and charges that they have already
agreed to pay.”  Lou D’Ermilio , a spokesman for Fox Sports in New York,
declined to discuss the channel’s finances.  Fox has been signing contracts for the past year, News
Corp. Chief Operating Officer Chase Carey said yesterday at a
Deutsche Bank AG investor conference in New York. The new
network will sustain losses as Fox seeks to increase the
subscriber fee, he said.  “Three to five years down the road, it’s a multibillion-
dollar asset,” Carey said. “It could really be a cornerstone
for us.”  Speed, the channel Fox Sports 1 will replace, collects 31
cents a month per subscriber on average from pay-TV systems,
estimates SNL Kagan. The researcher estimates Fox will seek $1.
By comparison, ESPN will receive $5.54 this year, Kagan
estimates.  Fox News  Laura Martin , an analyst at Needham & Co., expects Fox
Sports 1 to get 60 cents to 70 cents a month per subscriber -- a
big jump from Speed’s levels, though still a bargain compared
with ESPN. Fox Sports 1 has the opportunity to do to sports
networks what Fox News did to news channels, she said.  “Fox News entered as the third news channel and 15 years
later dominates the space,” Martin said in a report yesterday.
“Fox will be a worthy adversary to ESPN’s dominance in the
sports space.”  Fox has been considering a national sports channel “with
various degrees of seriousness for 15 years,” David Hill, News
Corp.’s senior executive vice president, said at an event
yesterday introducing the new channel. The company eventually
wants to show NFL games, he said.  ‘Be Opportunistic’  “We have to be opportunistic,” Hill said. “All I want is
for one friend to say to another, ‘That new Fox Sports channel,
it’s a great watch. You should go check it out.’”  If Fox Sports 1 can eventually command the average rate of
News Corp.’s existing regional sports channels, the network can
add 40 cents to 50 cents to News Corp.’s annual earnings per
share,  Anthony DiClemente , an analyst with  Barclays Capital  in
New York, said in a report earlier this year. Most of Fox’s
current regional properties got from $2.27 to $2.99 a month in
2012, he said, citing Kagan data.  News Corp. is projected to post profit, excluding some
items, of $1.68 a share, the average of 25 analysts’ estimates,
in the fiscal year ending in June.  The shares fell 1.1 percent to $29.87 at the close in New
York. The Class A stock has climbed 17 percent this  year .  News Corp. is preparing to split into two companies -- a
publishing operation and an entertainment business with
television and films. Murdoch, 81, who built  Fox News  into a
cable powerhouse, will be chairman of both companies and CEO of
the entertainment company, Fox Group, including Fox Sports 1.  Mobile Apps  Fox Sports will offer a mobile-phone service called Fox
Sports Go, said Bill Wanger, executive vice president of
programming and research, in an interview yesterday. The app
will offer game highlights and may eventually show games that
aren’t on TV, he said.  “It will have everything on it that you need to watch on
your phone or your tablet,” Wanger said. “In addition, we’re
revamping our Fox Sports website to be more vertical.”  Fox and other major networks have turned to live
programming like sports to bolster ratings and draw in viewers,
who can easily record other programs to watch later. That’s
created a crowd of competitors that includes  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC
Sports,  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s CBS Sports and regional sports networks from
 Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)   Fox Sports 1 is likely to have a bigger impact on NBC and
CBS than on the dominant ESPN, said Pilson, the former CBS
Sports executive.  “We’re not trying to beat ESPN,” Carey said yesterday.
“That wouldn’t make sense. Sports is a big huge arena. We’ve
proven over the years we can do some interesting and exciting
things.”  Among the new shows announced yesterday, Fox Sports 1 will
air a daily program, “Rush Hour,” with talk-show host  Regis Philbin . Former Pittsburgh Steelers quarterback  Terry Bradshaw 
will appear on “Fox Football Daily.”  ESPN’s most valuable franchise is its “Sports Center”
talk show, Carey said.  “Our real job and challenge is to put together the right
portfolio of rights first, and add dimensions that really
resonate with consumers,” Carey said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  