-- Turkcell to Sell Locally Produced Smartphone in 2013
-- B y   L e s l i e   P i c k e r
-- 2013-03-07T08:57:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/turkcell-to-sell-locally-produced-smartphone-in-2013.html
Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri AS (TKC) ,
 Turkey ’s biggest mobile operator, will start selling the
nation’s first self-branded smartphone this year, Chief
Corporate Affairs Officer Koray Ozturkler said.  “It’s going to be designed in Turkey, by Turkish
engineers,”  Ozturkler said yesterday in an interview at
Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York. “We’re contributing to
Turkey and our customer base.”  Turkcell is working with chipmaker  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  to produce
the Gebze phone, as it seeks to offer cheaper alternatives to
handsets designed by  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Samsung Electronics Co. The
Tepebasi, Turkey-based company, which had about 35 million
subscribers at the end of 2012, is following emerging-market
carriers in Brazil and Indonesia by selling customers more
affordable devices to access the Internet.  “We need to be lower than the average phone price in the
market, which is 350 euros to 400 euros,” Ozturkler said.
That’s the equivalent of about $450 to $520.  Turkcell shares rose 0.9 percent to 11.90 liras at 10:53
a.m. in Istanbul trading.  Mobile-phone providers from Rio de Janeiro-based  Tim
Participacoes SA (TIMP3)  to PT Indosat, based in Jakarta, are offering
unlimited surfing plans for as little as a minute and dangling
free access to Facebook Inc. and Twitter Inc. to lure customers.  Turkey’s budget deficit was 28.8 billion liras ($16
billion) in 2012, higher than an initial target of 21.1 billion
liras. The government plans to increase domestic borrowing by 47
percent this year before elections in 2014.  “Every 1 million phones that will be sold will create 500
million Turkish lira against the deficit,” Ozturkler said.
“This money will remain in Turkey.”  Globul Bid  Turkcell is still considering a bid for Bulgarian mobile
operator Cosmote Bulgaria Mobile EAD, also known as Globul,
Ozturkler said.  “We have not taken a decision yet on whether to bid,” he
said. “We have gone through due diligence. We are analyzing the
company. We have financial strength to go forward with some
buying opportunities.”  Turkcell made an initial non-binding bid in November for
Globul, owned by  Hellenic Telecommunications Organization SA. (HTO) 
 Hellenic Telecom , based in Athens, said last week that it may
halt the planned sale after successfully refinancing its debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Picker in New York at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  