-- Victoria’s Liberal Party Premier Quits Before National Poll
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t   a n d   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2013-03-06T23:52:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/victoria-s-state-premier-baillieu-quits-replaced-by-napthine.html
Victorian Premier Ted Baillieu
stepped down as leader of  Australia ’s second-most populous state
after the resignation of a party lawmaker jeopardized his
government’s parliamentary majority.  “It became apparent to me that a change of leadership is
in the best interests of the government,” Baillieu told
reporters in  Melbourne  yesterday in a televised news conference.
Baillieu, who will remain a member of the state parliament, was
replaced as Liberal Party leader by Denis Napthine, who was
minister for major projects, ports, racing and regional cities.  Baillieu, who led a state where demand shrank last quarter,
quit after lawmaker Geoff Shaw, under investigation for alleged
misuse of government funds, resigned from the Liberals
yesterday, threatening the government’s one-seat control of the
lower house.  Tony Abbott , the federal Liberal Party leader who
is favored in polls to win national elections due in September,
paid tribute to Baillieu’s government, saying it had put state
finances on a “sustainable footing.”  “It doesn’t help Abbott’s case that the state division in
Victoria is embroiled in turmoil,” said Zareh Ghazarian, a
politics lecturer at  Monash University  in Melbourne. “If
Baillieu had to fall on his sword, it’s better for the Liberals
to happen now than closer to the federal election.”  Slow Lane  Victoria is in the slow lane of Australia’s two-speed
economy -- a division the central bank uses to separate
resource-rich regions in the north that are powering growth,
from the tourism, manufacturing and retail industries of the
southeast that are teetering under a high currency. Its
 unemployment rate  in January reached 6.1 percent, higher than
the national average of 5.4 percent, according to the  Australian
Bureau of Statistics .  While Australia’s economy, fueled by resource investment,
 expanded  0.6 percent in the fourth quarter from three months
earlier, final demand in Victoria contracted 1.1 percent in the
same period, data released by the bureau yesterday shows.  State revenue will fall in the next four years due to
“external economic shocks,” the government said in its annual
budget forecast in May. It estimated a budget surplus of A$155
million ($159 million) for the year to June 30 as it sought
savings of A$1 billion over four years through measures
including cutting 600 public service jobs.  Looking Forward  “My sense of the Victorian community is that they have
been very concerned by state Liberal cutbacks,” Prime Minister
 Julia Gillard  said in a Sydney radio interview today. “The real
fear for the future is if Mr. Abbott was elected that they would
be joined by very big federal cutbacks.”  Napthine paid tribute to Baillieu and said he looked
forward to providing a strong and stable government for the
state. The state’s next election will be held in November 2014.  “This is a great honor, a great privilege and a great
challenge,” Napthine told reporters yesterday.  In the previous 2010 election, Baillieu led his Liberal-
National coalition to a 45-43 seat victory over Labor, which had
held power for more than a decade.  Baillieu asked Victoria’s Independent Broad-based Anti-
corruption Commission on March 4 to investigate his chief of
staff, Tony Nutt, whom he didn’t fire or suspend.  “What is clear is that this government is an absolute
circus,” opposition leader Daniel Andrews said in an Australian
Broadcasting Corp. television interview today. “Many Victorians
will wake up this morning completely unclear about what’s gone
on.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  