-- VimpelCom Boosts Profit on Subscriber Growth in Asia, Africa
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2013-03-06T10:47:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/vimpelcom-boosts-earnings-on-subscriber-growth-in-asia-africa.html
VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP) , the wireless carrier
owned by Russian billionaire  Mikhail Fridman  and Norway’s
 Telenor ASA (TEL) , reported rising fourth-quarter earnings after
cutting costs and adding customers in Africa and  Asia .  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization rose 10 percent to $2.45 billion in the period
ending Dec. 31, VimpelCom said today in a statement. That
matched the average of analysts’  projections  compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales added 1 percent to $5.95 billion.  VimpelCom increased data  revenue  in Russia, cut operating
costs in Bangladesh, and gained users in Uzbekistan after rival
OAO Mobile TeleSystems quit the market. Ebitda margin expanded
to 41.1 percent of sales from 37.8 percent a year earlier.  Net income was $801 million compared with a loss of $381
million a year earlier, helped by a gain from VimpelCom’s stake
in handset retailer Euroset Holding NV. Subscribers increased 5
percent from a year earlier to 214 million, led by an 8 percent
gain for the Africa and Asia division to more than 85 million
customers.  Amsterdam-based VimpelCom, which operates in 18 countries,
is seeking to boost operating efficiency and cut its $27 billion
debt which stems from a purchase of telecommunications assets
from Egyptian billionaire  Naguib Sawiris  in 2011. The company
targets a net-debt-to-Ebitda ratio of below 2 by 2015, from 2.2
as of Dec. 31.  “We are very focused on organic growth, cash flows and are
committed to deleveraging,” Chief Executive Officer Jo Lunder
said in a phone interview today.  Acquisition Interest  Still, VimpelCom may be interested in acquisitions if the
right opportunity presents itself, Lunder said.  Tele2 AB (TEL2B) ’s
Russian business emerged as a potential takeover target after
the company failed to win licenses to offer faster wireless
service in the country last year.  “Market consolidation would be of interest if on the right
terms,” Lunder said, when asked if VimpelCom is interested in
Tele2’s Russia assets. “Still, there no M&As on the table.”  Shares of VimpelCom  advanced  2.6 percent to $12.12 in  New
York  trading yesterday. The stock has advanced 3.6 percent over
the past year, valuing the company at $19.7 billion.  VimpelCom increased net cash from operating activities by
24 percent to $2.3 billion in the fourth quarter. The company’s
target is to reduce  capital spending  to below 15 percent of
sales by 2015 from 18 percent last year.  The company plans to announce a final  dividend  for 2012 and
a payout policy next quarter. The company is set to receive $1.4
billion from Fridman’s Altimo as a result of a stock conversion
in April and may pay extraordinary dividends from the proceeds,
according to today’s statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  