-- Fizzled Washington Storm Showering Boston With Rain, Snow
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2013-03-07T10:35:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/washington-snowstorm-fizzles-as-snow-is-mixed-with-rain.html
A late winter storm that failed to
bring anticipated snow totals to Washington and Baltimore is
forecast to leave 4 to 8 inches of snow on the ground in  Boston ,
according to the National Weather Service.  The heaviest snowfall may hit the city tonight and may
result in power disruptions in the region through tomorrow, the
 weather service  said. The agency reduced its forecasts for
overnight snowfall in New York City.  “The bulk of the storm is yet to come,” Matt Doody, a
National Weather Service meteorologist in Taunton,
 Massachusetts , said today by telephone today. “Snow hasn’t
started accumulating. It will be intermittent.”  More than  1,300 flights  in Washington and Baltimore were
scrubbed, and government offices closed yesterday as the storm,
which dropped 9 inches (23 centimeters) of snow on  Chicago ,
moved east. Forecasters expected it to bring as much as a foot
of snow to the Mid-Atlantic coast.  A layer of warm air over  Washington  and central  Maryland 
kept heavy snow from falling and made sure a steady stream of
rain was mixed in, Calvin Meadows, a meteorological technician
for  the National Weather Service  in Sterling, Virginia, said
yesterday.  “They didn’t get as much snow as they had the potential
for,” Meadows said by telephone. “What snow did fall melted
before it accumulated.”  Storm Warning  A winter storm warning is in place for a region northwest
of Providence, Rhode Island, and stretching into central
Massachusetts from 7 a.m. today until 1 p.m. tomorrow. A winter
weather advisory for Boston is no longer in effect, the weather
service said in its 4:09 a.m.  urgent winter message .  The worst part of the storm will be coastal flooding,  Alan
Dunham , a weather service meteorologist also based in Taunton,
said yesterday.  Heavy winds, higher-than-normal tides and large waves are
expected to batter the Massachusetts coast from 5 a.m. today
through 10 a.m. tomorrow.  A winter storm warning for eastern Long Island and southern
 Connecticut  was canceled by the weather service in Upton, New
York, and replaced with a less severe winter weather advisory.  The weather service has “tapered back” its snow forecast
for New York City, estimating that 1/10th of an inch may fall by
daybreak and 1/2 of an inch through today, Ashley Sears, a
meteorologist for the agency, said by phone today. The city and
Long Island were previously expected to see 1 to 3 inches of
snow late yesterday and 2 to 3 inches tonight.  Power Customers  Farther to the west, heavy snow knocked out power to more
than 100,000 people in  Virginia  and Maryland yesterday and left
as much as 24 inches on the ground in Franklin, West Virginia,
according to the weather service. Virginia Governor Bob
McDonnell declared a  state of emergency .  More than 135,000 electricity customers were without power
in areas of Delaware, Maryland and Virginia, according to an
Accuweather Inc.  update  at 9:20 p.m. yesterday. As of 7:50 p.m.
New York time yesterday, government offices in Washington were
expected to be open today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 Ldoan6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  