-- Washington Workers Stay Home as Snow Puts Off Tax Code Rewrite
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y   a n d   K a t h l e e n   M i l l e r
-- 2013-03-06T18:40:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/washington-workers-stay-home-as-snow-puts-off-tax-code-rewrite.html
On  Capitol Hill , rewriting the  tax
code  was postponed. At the White House, the daily news briefing
was called off. Offices where 300,000 federal employees work
were closed.  With a winter storm heading into the mid-Atlantic,
threatening to dump as much as a foot of snow in some areas
before it passes early tomorrow morning, Washington ground
to a halt, even as little stuck to sidewalks and streets.  Downtown roads were largely empty during the early morning
rush hour as heavy flakes blew sideways, turning to slush when
they hit the pavement. It was the first time since October --
when  Hurricane Sandy  moved up the East Coast -- that the federal
government was closed.  The  National Weather Service  forecast total accumulation of
4 to 8 inches in the U.S. capital, with wind gusts of as much as
40 miles per hour (64 kilometers per hour).  While much of official Washington was closed, others showed
up to work. Scott Rowlands, an elevator technician, made his
hour-long commute to Washington from Queenstown, Maryland,
without incident. He didn’t have the day off.  “It doesn’t matter if there’s a snowstorm, we always have
to work,” said Rowlands, 47, brushing wet flakes from his face.
“People need to get up and down.”  Flights Canceled  Around the U.S., 2,034 flights were canceled, with more
than half of them to or from Washington’s two major airports,
 Reagan National  and Dulles International, according to
FlightAware, a Houston-based tracking service. Schools in
Washington and throughout the Maryland and Virginia suburbs were
also closed.  Asked about the snow as she emerged from the Senate floor,
Senator  Elizabeth Warren  wasn’t impressed.  “Come on, I’m from Massachusetts,” she told reporters.  On the other side of the Capitol, Representative  Dave Camp ,
a Republican from  Michigan , postponed the release of a draft
plan for overhauling the tax code for small businesses. At the
White House, spokesman  Jay Carney  called off the daily briefing
for reporters, citing the weather.  At the recently opened Woodward Table restaurant near the
U.S. Department of the Treasury, Joe Harran, the chef, said he’d
only had about 20 customers by 10 a.m. The restaurant stayed
open, even though it may lose money.  Seeking ‘Exposure’  “Even if the government’s closed, there are apartment
buildings upstairs from us and the people who live there may pay
us a visit,” said Harran, 46. “We’re still trying to get all
the exposure we can.”  At a Starbucks Corp. coffee shop near the White House,
business was also scarce. The number of customers was down by
about 80 percent by mid-morning, said Leon Evison, 40, the
manager.  “You can have a hurricane, a tornado, a snowstorm, but if
you have 10 closed Starbucks, that is when people really start
to panic,” Evison said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Selway in  Washington  at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Miller in Washington at 
 kmiller01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  