-- WD-50 Gets Less Bold With $644 Tasting Menu: Ryan Sutton
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2013-03-06T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/wd-50-gets-less-bold-with-644-tasting-menu-ryan-sutton.html
With WD-50, Wylie Dufresne created
one of the country’s most exciting restaurants.  When it opened in 2003, it was a rare outpost for fine
dining on  Manhattan ’s Lower East Side.  Dufresne used advanced techniques and odd flavor
combinations to produce delicious food. The chef took mayonnaise
and deep fried it. He paired foie gras with spicy kimchi puree
instead of the usual sweet Sauternes.  It all worked -- just as  WD-50  somehow succeeded as an
inviting, affordable neighborhood joint with a high-end menu.  In 2005, you could drop in, without a reservation, for an
11-course tasting at $95. In 2009, you could sit by the bar
sipping a carbon-dioxide infused gin fizz, long before such
concoctions began showing up at hip places.  A few Fridays ago, I stopped in for a sparkling Americano.
The hostess shook her head. “Sorry, the bar is reserved for
dining tonight.”  Fair enough. If only I’d been allowed to enjoy a libation
standing up. Instead, I was told to return another evening. Oh,
and the bar was empty.  Tough Love  So WD-50 isn’t what it used to be. A la carte options were
eliminated last spring. Now it’s Wy’s way or the highway: You
choose between five courses for $90 or 12 for $155. Add $95
pairings, tax and tip and the long menu comes to $644 for two.  These prices and prix-fixe policies aren’t out of line with
 New York ’s most ambitious spots like  Atera , Corton and Torrisi.
The cost might make some weird sense if WD-50 was even better
than it was in the a-la-carte days.  It isn’t. Half the savory courses on the $90 “From the
Vault” menu, which highlights dishes from years past, are
snoozers.  You begin with a single indifferent slice of octopus
confit. Then come under-seasoned monkfish medallions with red
pepper oatmeal. Beef tongue, once served with that lovely fried
mayo, is now delivered atop cherry miso with king oyster
mushrooms. Fine, and forgettable.  WD-50 remains an unusually civilized space. Despite the
hard floors and lack of tablecloths, the room rarely gets noisy.
Champagne ( Pierre Gimonnet ) starts at $80 the bottle, about $30
less than other high-end venues. And the $95 pairing shows off
great aromatic whites from Alsace (Sylvaner  Dirler Cade ) and
 Oregon  ( Maresh  Pinot Gris).  Popcorn Shrimp  With a bit of magic and butter, Dufresne turns popcorn into
soup. Tastes like the movie theater variety minus all the oil.
Into that mix he tosses powerfully briny shrimp cakes, for
wonderfully reinvented popcorn shrimp.  But sometimes Dufresne takes a classic and manipulates all
the taste out of it.  Bone marrow is rendered into a gel that’s piped into a
potato hollowed-out to look like a bone. It’s awesome, until you
eat it. Marrow should be hot, oozy, jiggly. Here it’s flavorless
and tepid.  That marrow is part of the $155 tasting, which begins with
sliced Japanese sea perch, called madai, served over a mound of
salsify-imitating rice. It falls apart when you pick it up, and
the grains aren’t warm, so there’s no contrast to the dish. It’s
subpar sushi.  Smoked Quack  Pho gras, a punny take on foie gras and Vietnamese soup, is
a near-success. The tepid broth isn’t hot enough to melt the
cold liver and release its delicate flavors.  Better is the smoked duck, a study in how to perfectly
render animal fat. Pig tails, pressed, fried and paired with
olive oil jam, are a yin-yang improvement on bacon with maple
syrup.  Sweet bay scallops get a dose of umami-packed nori and
seafood meringue. It’s one of the few palate-wakening tastes on
the menu.  Another is the Wagyu flatiron. It packs more minerality
than 99 percent of the steaks in this town and it’s paired with
what tastes like beef jerky but is, in fact, mushroom.  That’s the Wylie we remember, the guy who still serves
passion fruit tarts in tahini crusts and gives us marshmallows
made of ice cream. WD-50, despite its flaws, is still a fine
place for a quick bite at the bar. Just remember to call ahead.  Rating: **  The Bloomberg Questions  Price: Tasting at $90; $155. Bar diners can order two
plates for $25, additional plates at $15.  Sound Level: Subdued, usually around 70 decibels.  Date Place: Yes.  Special Feature: The kitchen will accommodate vegetarians.  Inside Tip: Excellent selection of sakes.  Back on My Own Dime: For beef at the bar.  WD-50 is at 50 Clinton St. Information: +1-212-477-2900;
 http://wd-50.com .  
Sound-Level (in decibels): 51 to 55: Quiet enough to converse.
56 to 60: Speak up. 61 to 65: Lean in if you want to hear your
date. 66 to 70: You’re reading one another’s lips. 71 to 75:
You’re yelling. 76 to 85: Ear-splitting din.  (Ryan Sutton writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The
opinions expressed are his own. Follow him on Tumblr at
www.thepricehike.com or www.thebaddeal.com).  Muse highlights include Patrick Cole on  music  and  David
Shribman  on books.  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 