-- Weather Balloons Seen at Risk of Being Grounded by U.S. Cuts
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M i l l e r
-- 2013-03-06T05:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/weather-balloons-seen-at-risk-of-being-grounded-by-u-s-cuts.html
The U.S.  National Weather Service 
may freeze hiring and reduce the number of balloons that soar
miles high in the sky to collect data used for forecasts, a
union official said.  “Those weather balloons are the main drivers they use to
get models that tell you, for example, there’s a pretty big
snowstorm that’s going to be in Washington,” Dan Sobien,
president of the National Weather Service Employees
Organization, said yesterday. “That would be a very devastating
thing to cut.”  The agency is part of the Commerce Department’s  National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration , which is looking at ways
to reduce spending in response to across-the-board  federal
budget  cuts. Two weather satellite programs run by NOAA also may
be affected, exacerbating a coverage gap that may leave
forecasters with a blind spot by the end of 2016.  The combination of the satellite gaps, fewer staff and
reduced balloon deployment is “particularly disturbing”
considering the importance and wide use of the agency’s data,
said J. Marshall Shepherd, president of the American
Meteorological Society in  Boston . The weather service’s
forecasts are used not only by the public, but also by
government agencies such as the Pentagon and industries from
agriculture to construction.  Trickle Down  “It could severely set back our forecasting ability, which
Americans rely on in their day-to-day lives, and the airlines
and energy companies depend on,” Shepherd said in a phone
interview. “It has a trickle-down effect that impacts all
aspects of our economy.”  Marni Goldberg, department spokeswoman, didn’t respond to
requests for comment about potential reductions in weather
balloon deployments, a hiring freeze or furloughs.  “The  Department of Commerce  is actively working on how to
manage the budget cut in a way that protects our core mission to
serve the public,” Goldberg said in an e-mail.  Sobien said he has encouraged the weather service, which
delivers about 1.5 million climate forecasts and 50,000 weather
warnings a year, to avoid the employee furloughs that some other
agencies have threatened. Sobien said he’s aware of the
possibility of a hiring freeze and fewer balloon launches from
conversations with high-ranking weather service officials. He
said he didn’t know whether the agency was considering
furloughs.  Weather Balloons  Even so, the cuts may force the bureau to reduce the number
of weather balloons it deploys each day, he said in a phone
interview. Twice a day, the weather service deploys hydrogen- or
helium-gas-filled balloons that record temperature, wind
direction and humidity while ascending miles above the earth
from 92 locations.  The hiring freeze would exacerbate an already understaffed
agency, which has 8 percent or 9 percent of all positions
vacant, Sobien said.  The Commerce Department has said  weather forecasts  and
timely storm warnings would be compromised by cuts at NOAA,
including the satellite programs and furloughs of 2,600
employees. The department hasn’t said whether National Weather
Service staff would be excluded from any furloughs.  “As a result, the government runs the risk of
significantly increasing forecast error and, the government’s
ability to warn Americans across the country about high impact
weather events, such as hurricanes and tornadoes, will be
compromised,” Deputy Commerce Secretary  Rebecca Blank  said last
month in a letter to Senator Barbara Mikulski, the Maryland
Democrat who leads the Appropriations Committee.  Automatic Cuts  The Commerce Department would have to trim $551 million as
part of the $85 billion in automatic federal spending cuts that
began taking effect March 1.  The reductions, known as sequestration, are occurring
because Congress and the White House failed to agree on a way to
reduce the deficit. They would total $1.2 trillion across the
government over nine years.  The weather service provides critical guidance to a variety
of businesses. The Commodity Weather Group, for example, uses
the agency’s climate data to provide specialized forecasts to
its clients in banking, retail, agriculture and energy, said
 Matt Rogers , the Bethesda, Maryland-based company’s president.  “They’re all basically looking for weather risks that
could affect their costs,” Rogers said in a phone interview.
“Some need it for what they do, others want to trade it or
hedge it. But they all count on us to alert them of extreme
weather.”  The Weather Channel also depends on the National Weather
Service’s data to compile its forecasts, said  Paul Walsh , vice
president of weather analytics at the Weather Co., based in
Atlanta.  “There’s an entire weather enterprise industry that
supports commercial activities in the U.S. and abroad,” Walsh
said in a phone interview. “And it all basically sits on the
foundation of data collected by the National Weather Service and
NOAA.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Miller in  Washington  at 
 Kmiller01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  