-- Prosperity Adds More Gazprom as Putin Pushes Improvement
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a   a n d   V l a d i m i r   K u z n e t s o v
-- 2013-03-07T17:01:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/westman-ending-10-year-gazprom-hiatus-russia-overnight.html
Prosperity Capital Management Ltd.,
whose  Russia  fund beat 97 percent of peers in the past year,
bought more shares of OAO  Gazprom (OGZPY)  on prospects Russia will push
its gas export monopoly to be more efficient.  “The government is putting a lot of pressure on Gazprom to
operate in a more transparent and efficient way and the company
is turning around,” Mattias Westman, who helps oversee about $4
billion in Russian assets as chief executive officer of
Prosperity in  London , said by phone yesterday. “It’s a good
investment longer term, especially as valuations are very low
and attractive.”  Gazprom, the world’s biggest natural gas producer, has
slumped 37 percent over the past two years to trade at 2.7 times
earnings, the cheapest stock on Russia’s  Micex (INDEXCF)  Index, as the
euro-zone recession cut demand from its top customer. President
 Vladimir Putin  urged the company, Russia’s largest, to improve
its performance and boost corporate governance in a Feb. 21
 speech  at Gazprom’s 20th anniversary gala.  American depositary receipts of Gazprom fell 0.3 percent to
$8.69 by 11:56 a.m. in  New York , as the  Bloomberg Russia-US
Equity Index (RUS14BN)  of the most-traded Russian companies in the U.S.
traded little changed at 101.89. Gazprom dropped 1.1 percent on
the 50-stock Micex, to 133.65 rubles, or $4.35. One depositary
receipt equals two shares.  Prosperity, based in London, didn’t hold Gazprom stock for
“about 10 years and added it to the portfolio relatively
recently, investing mostly in the Moscow-listed stock,” said
Westman, a founding partner. The firm bought shares of Gazprom
in 2010 for the first time in 13 years, Westman said in November
of that year. They bought more stock toward the end of 2012 and
this year, he said today.  Government Control  The Prosperity  Russia Domestic Fund (PRUSSDA)  returned 8.7 percent in
the past year and 7.5 percent in 2013, beating 91 percent of its
peers in that period, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Russia’s government owns just more than 50 percent of
Gazprom, data compiled by Bloomberg show, and gets about 50
percent of budget revenue from oil and gas.  Gazprom probably overshot its plan for  capital spending  by
$4 billion in 2012 after a “very intensive” fourth quarter
pushed annual expenditure by as much as $44 billion, Chief
Financial Officer Andrey Kruglov said in a Jan. 17 earnings
conference call.  To maintain its dominance over natural gas exports, Gazprom
needs to react quickly to changes on global markets and be able
to negotiate effectively with its partners, Putin said in last
month’s address. “It is imperative to consistently eliminate
anything that is dragging the company down,” he said.  Top Pick  Shares of Gazprom may surge 30 percent if the government
decides to split the company into production and transport units
or revamp its management, according to Elena Loven, who helps
manage more than 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) in Russian
stocks at Swedbank Robur,  Sweden ’s second-largest lender.  The stock is one of Loven’s top picks over the next 10
years, though Swedbank Robur has recently been underweight
Gazprom, she said in a March 5 interview in Moscow. The  Swedbank
Robur Rysslandsfond (SWRRYSS) , which invests in Russian equities, has lost
12 percent over the past year and 0.3 percent in 2013, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Gazprom plans to sell bonds in euros for the first time
since July, according to a person familiar with the matter who
asked not to be identified as the details aren’t public.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net ;
Vladimir Kuznetsov in Moscow at 
 vkuznetsov2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  