-- West Ham’s London Olympic Stadium Plan Opposed by Leyton Orient
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2013-03-06T18:35:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/west-ham-s-london-olympic-stadium-plan-opposed-by-leyton-orient.html
Leyton Orient, an English third-
division soccer team, filed a legal appeal over plans to allow
Premier League club West Ham United to take over  London ’s
Olympic stadium.  Orient, which is in League One, said it filed proceedings
in the U.K. High Court against the London Legacy Development
Corp., which is overseeing the re-use of the facilities from
last year’s games. Orient blocked an earlier plan to allow the
Hammers to take over the site with another legal appeal.  The lower division club wants to use the stadium alongside
West Ham, and said the legacy company didn’t allow the award to
both clubs as was permitted in the  application .  “Our plan was, and remains, to be the community offering
alongside a wealthy Premier League club,” Orient Chairman Barry Hearn said today on the  team’s website . “We don’t intend to
interfere with West Ham’s residency at the stadium, but maintain
the position that if they are going to be there, then we need to
be there too.”  West Ham was chosen as the “first-ranked bidder” in
December.  Should a soccer team move into the stadium, which was the
centerpiece of the London Olympics and Paralympics in July and
August, the site would have to have a retractable seating
solution to make sure it can also function as an athletics
venue, the LLDC said in December.  Tottenham, AEG  It’s the second time West Ham has been picked as preferred
bidder for the 537 million-pound ($807 million) stadium. The
Hammers and Newham local authority were selected as long-term
tenants in February 2011 over a joint bid by Premier League club
Tottenham Hotspur and AEG, a U.S.-based entertainment facility
operator. In October 2011, that agreement collapsed following a
series of legal challenges from Tottenham and Orient and an
anonymous complaint to the European Commission.  West Ham plays at Upton Park, which seats about 35,000,
while Orient’s Matchroom Stadium holds 9,271 people.  The Olympic Stadium, which hosted the 2012 opening and
closing ceremonies and the athletic events, will be reduced in
size before being used as host for the 2017 World Athletics
Championships.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  