-- Where Have China’s Workers Gone?
-- B y   Y u k o n   H u a n g   a n d   C l a r e   L y n c h
-- 2013-03-06T23:55:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/where-have-china-s-workers-gone-.html
Xi Jinping and Li Keqiang are taking
over  China ’s leadership at a time when growth has slackened and
labor issues have become more complex.  Reports that businesses such as Foxconn Technology Group
are raising wages and struggling to recruit workers in China
have intensified debate over just how many surplus workers the
country still has. Meanwhile, a boom in college-educated Chinese
has raised concerns of an impending threat to U.S.
competitiveness. These seemingly disparate concerns about
China’s labor force are actually linked by common underlying
factors, with critical implications for China’s ability to
remain the  growth engine  of the world.  China’s large pool of surplus labor has fueled its rapid
industrial growth. Now this “demographic dividend” may be almost
exhausted, and its economy reaching a Lewis turning point: a
 shift  named after the Nobel prize-winning Arthur Lewis, who was
the first to describe how poor economies can develop by
transferring surplus labor from agriculture to the more
productive industrial sector until the point when surplus labor
disappears, wages begin to rise and growth slows.  Citing periodic labor shortages and unskilled wages that
have risen since 2003, prominent Chinese economists suggest that
time has come. The International Monetary Fund disagrees and
puts the turning point much later -- between 2020 and 2025,
based on a model analyzing labor productivity. A third view is
that China’s surplus labor is still plentiful, given that about
40 percent of the labor force is still underutilized in the
rural sector, mostly in agriculture, which accounts for only 10
percent of gross domestic product.  Mobility Restrictions  In China, many market imperfections impede the mobility and
use of labor. Thus, actual availability may fall far short of
what is potentially available. The hukou residency system that
restricts migrant workers from accessing services where they are
employed is the most glaring example of this kind of
imperfection. Less obvious is the extent to which China’s rural-
support policies, including subsidy programs, may be encouraging
workers to stay in agriculture longer than they should.  Surplus workers may not be in agriculture as in the
original Lewis model but in smaller towns, underemployed at
depressed wages. The result is that China has the highest rural-
urban income disparity in the world.  Why don’t these workers move to more productive jobs in
more dynamic settings? In formal terms, it is because their
“reservation wage” has increased -- that is, the minimum wage
they demand to move is much greater than their current wage,
because for a generation that didn’t experience the hardships of
the Mao Zedong era, the monetary and emotional costs of
relocation have risen. Many workers won’t move to major cities
that lack affordable housing. They may also have rights to land
that can’t be sold for full market value -- thus, staying in
familiar surroundings is now a more attractive proposition.  If recent decades saw a huge migration that “brought
workers to where the jobs are” along the coast, the future may
mean the reverse, involving “bringing the jobs to where the
workers are” with profound implications for China’s economic
geography.  In lesser known provinces such as Henan, with a country-
sized population of 100 million, large numbers of young workers
seek factory positions but are unwilling to relocate to
seemingly foreign places in coastal China. As China becomes more
consumption-oriented with rising incomes and urbanization, the
center of economic gravity will naturally move inland where two-
thirds of the population resides.  College Graduates  Just as young workers are demanding more satisfying jobs,
they also increasingly feel entitled to a college education.
Government policy has expanded access to higher education. From
2000 to 2010, the percentage of college-age cohorts enrolled in
universities more than tripled in China, a rate of increase far
above that of  India ,  Malaysia  and  Indonesia . China wants to
produce 200 million college graduates by 2030; they will make up
more than 20 percent of the projected labor force, more than
double the current ratio. The push to expand higher education
means the number of college-educated has leapfrogged -- and
excessively so -- ahead of those holding only vocational or
junior college degrees.  These college-educated workers are unwilling to settle for
factory work and compete for office-based positions. College
graduates are four times as likely to be unemployed as urban
residents of the same age with only basic education, even as
factories go begging for semi-skilled workers. Given the
underdeveloped service sector and still-large roles of
manufacturing and construction, China has created a serious
mismatch between skills of the labor force and available jobs.  As the economy moves up the value chain, substituting more
capital-intensive manufacturing for unskilled labor-intensive
assembly, a shortage of semi-skilled workers is appearing. But
the excessive growth of college graduates has outpaced the
structural transition and prematurely shifted the labor supply
from semi-skilled manufacturing workers to more knowledge-
intensive service professionals. More emphasis on vocational
training and industry-specific engineering skills will help
China fill its immediate need for manufacturing workers.  Economists will continue to debate whether China is running
out of surplus labor. But pinpointing the timing of the Lewis
turning point is less relevant than understanding how policy
distortions, shifting labor migration patterns and higher
education enrollments are creating labor shortages and skill-mix
problems. As China enters a more complicated and less
predictable phase of its economic development, its policy makers
need to focus on how to encourage use of labor in the right
places and with the right skills.  (Yukon Huang and Clare Lynch are, respectively, a senior
associate and a junior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment. The
opinions expressed are their own.)  To contact the writers of this article:
Yukon Huang at  yhuang@ceip.org  and Clare Lynch at
 clynch@ceip.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 