-- Brent Crude Trades Near Four-Day High on Pipeline Halt
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-03-06T13:43:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/wti-oil-fluctuates-after-biggest-gain-in-two-weeks-chavez-dies.html
Brent crude was little changed near
its highest in four days as a North Sea pipeline system remained
shut. Venezuela, OPEC’s fourth-biggest producer, announced the
death of President Hugo Chavez.  Futures fluctuated, having climbed by the most in a month
yesterday. Venezuelan Vice President Nicolas Maduro said on
state television that Chavez died at 4:25 p.m. at a military
hospital in Caracas. The Brent pipeline system has been shut
since an oil leak was discovered March 2 on the Cormorant Alpha
platform. U.S. crude stockpiles rose  5.6 million barrels  last
week, data from the American Petroleum Institute showed.  “There’s still positive sentiment, risk appetite is still
high,” said Filip Petersson, a commodities strategist at
Stockholm-based bank SEB AB who estimates that a fair value for
Brent would be $105 a barrel. “There’s plenty of crude out
there at the moment.”  Brent for April settlement was at $111.32 a barrel, down 29
cents, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange at 1:38
p.m. in  London  after advancing as high as $112.23. The volume of
all futures traded was 58 percent above the 100-day average.
Prices gained $1.52, or 1.4 percent, to $111.61 yesterday, the
highest level since Feb. 27 and biggest increase since Feb. 8.
The European benchmark grade’s premium to WTI futures widened a
second day to $20.84.  WTI for April delivery was at $90.50 a barrel, down 32
cents, in electronic trading on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange. The volume of all futures traded was 30 percent below
the 100-day average.  Brent Pipeline  Production from the 27 North Sea oil fields that make up
the Brent system was shut because of the platform leak, an
official from  Abu Dhabi National Energy Co. (TAQA)  PJSC, the operator
known as Taqa, said March 4. Taqa had no estimate for when the
flow will resume, said the official, who asked not to be
identified because of company policy.  The pipeline normally carries 90,000 barrels of oil a day,
equivalent to 10 percent of U.K. output, though 10,000 barrels a
day was already offline following a similar incident at the same
platform on Jan. 14.  Output from the North Sea Buzzard oil field is increasing
after scheduled maintenance was completed yesterday ahead of
plan, according to the platform’s operator,  Nexen Inc. (NXY)  The
200,000 barrel-a-day field was scheduled to have four days of
work in the first week of March.  The price for Venezuela’s  crude basket  has surged more than
11-fold to $103.89 a barrel currently, from about $9 when Chavez
took office in 1999. He used the revenues to pour money into
social programs, helping to cut the poverty rate by half.  Venezuelan Output  “It’s too soon to say what Hugo Chavez’s death means for
oil prices, but it is certainly true that oil prices are what
made Hugo Chavez possible,” Daniel Yergin, the chairman of IHS
Cambridge Energy Research Associates, said in an e-mail. Falling
oil prices paved the way for Chavez to rise to power and
increasing prices gave him the money needed to sustain state
spending and consolidate power, Yergin said.  Venezuela  produced 2.86 million barrels of oil a day last
month, behind Saudi Arabia, Iraq and  Kuwait  in the 12-member
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, according to a
Bloomberg survey. It exported about 1 million barrels a day to
the U.S. in December, figures from the U.S. Energy Information
Administration show.  “The death of Hugo Chavez may have an impact on the
market, although that isn’t apparent at the moment,” said
Michael McCarthy, a chief market strategist at CMC Markets in
Sydney. “The potential for disruption in Venezuelan politics
could see disruptions to development and supply.”  Oil Supplies  U.S. crude supplies  increased  last week the most since May,
the API data showed. Stockpiles at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the
delivery point for WTI, gained 259,000 barrels to 50.8 million,
the highest level in a month. An EIA report today may show total
U.S. crude inventories gained by 788,000 barrels, climbing for a
seventh week, according to the median estimate of 12 analysts in
a Bloomberg News survey.  Gasoline supplies dropped 914,000 barrels last week, the
API data show. They are projected to fall  1 million barrels  in
the EIA report. Distillate inventories, a category that includes
heating oil and diesel, slipped 1.7 million barrels, compared
with a projected 1 million barrel decline in the survey.  The API collects stockpile information on a voluntary basis
from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the EIA for its
weekly survey. The Energy Department’s statistics unit is
scheduled to release its report at 10:30 a.m. in  Washington .  WTI has technical support along its lower Bollinger Band,
about $90.24 a barrel today, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Futures yesterday traded below the indicator before
rebounding to settle higher, signaling chart support, where buy
orders may be clustered.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Winnie Zhu in Singapore at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net ;
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  