-- Brent Crude Oil Slides as North Sea Pipeline Resumes
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-03-07T13:49:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/wti-oil-trades-near-two-day-low-as-u-s-crude-stockpiles-climb.html
Brent crude prices slid after a
pipeline system used to transport  North Sea  oil resumed
operation following a five-day halt. West Texas Intermediate
rose from near its lowest closing price this year.  London-traded Brent futures sank as much as 0.5 percent,
reversing an earlier gain. The Brent pipeline is flowing at less
than full capacity, a spokesman for operator  Abu Dhabi National
Energy Co. (TAQA)  PJSC, known as Taqa, said by telephone from  Abu
Dhabi , capital of the United Arab Emirates.  “Brent is pulling a little lower” said  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst at VTB Capital in  London , who estimates
that the grade will struggle to surpass $112.50 a barrel.
“Supply disruptions had helped Brent find support. Near-term
fundamentals do not justify sustained gains.”  Brent for April settlement on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange fell as much as 59 cents to $110.47 a barrel, and was
at $110.64 at 1:35 p.m. London time. The volume of all futures
traded was 59 percent above the 100-day average. The European
benchmark crude was at a premium of $19.92 to WTI futures,
compared with $20.63 yesterday, as the spread narrowed for a
second consecutive day.  WTI for April delivery rose as much as 46 cents to $90.89 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange.  WTI closed at $90.12 a barrel on March 4, the lowest
settlement since Dec. 24. Futures gained as the dollar weakened
against the euro, making assets priced in the U.S. currency more
attractive.  The euro climbed 0.4 percent to $1.3017 at 12:54 p.m. in
London, as the  European Central Bank  kept  interest rates  on hold
at a meeting in Frankfurt.  North Sea  Production from the 27 North Sea oil fields that make up
the Brent system was shut March 2 after Taqa reported a leak in
one leg of the Cormorant Alpha platform. The pipeline normally
carries 90,000 barrels a day of oil, equivalent to 10 percent of
U.K. output, though 10,000 barrels a day was already offline
after a similar incident at the same platform on Jan. 14.  The company didn’t specify when operations resumed at the
pipeline, which accounts for about 10 percent of U.K. oil
production, nor did it say when the network would reach the
targeted flow of 80,000 barrels a day.  Exports of North Sea Forties crude in April are planned at
21 cargoes of 600,000 barrels each, one more than this month, a
loading program obtained by  Bloomberg News  showed.  Forties is one of four North Sea oil grades that make up
the Dated Brent benchmark, which is used to price crude from the
 Middle East ,  Africa  and Russia. The other blends are Brent,
Oseberg and Ekofisk.  Cushing Inventories  U.S. crude stockpiles at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery
point for WTI and the country’s biggest oil-storage hub, rose
257,000 barrels to 50.8 million, the highest level in a month,
data from the Energy Information Administration, the Energy
Department’s statistical unit, showed yesterday. Supplies
nationwide climbed to 381.4 million, the most since June.  U.S. distillate inventories, including heating oil and
diesel, fell 3.8 million barrels, according to the EIA. They
were projected to fall by 1 million barrels. Gasoline supplies
were down by  616,000 barrels , less than a forecast decline of 1
million barrels.  Refinery  utilization  decreased 2.9 percentage points from
the previous week to 82.2 percent, the lowest U.S. rate since
March 16, 2012. Processing had been forecast to rise 0.4
percentage point in a Bloomberg survey of analysts.  Overstated Demand  Weakness in U.S.  oil demand  may be overstated because of
disruptions at pipelines and terminals from  Hurricane Sandy  in
October that have made it difficult for refiners to ship
products, Stefan Wieler, a London-based analyst at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., said in a report yesterday.  The death of Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez  on March 5
should have a limited impact on the country’s oil production in
the short term, while a change of leadership may foster longer-
term investment and boost output, the bank said.  Venezuela 
pumped 2.86 million barrels a day of crude last month, according
to a Bloomberg survey of producers and analysts.  WTI has technical support along its lower Bollinger Band,
about $89.70 a barrel today, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Futures yesterday traded below the indicator before
rebounding to settle higher for a second day, signaling chart
support, where buy orders may be clustered.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  