-- Wynn Retracts Some Accusations in Lawsuit, Okada Says
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   Y u k i   Y a m a g u c h i
-- 2013-03-07T08:37:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/wynn-retracts-some-accusations-in-lawsuit-okada-says.html
Universal Entertainment Corp. (6425) , the
Japanese pachinko company, jumped by the most in more than four
years after its Chairman Kazuo Okada said  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN) 
retracted some accusations made in a lawsuit against him.  Universal jumped 20 percent, the most since November 2008,
to 1,880 yen on volume of 879,300 shares, five times the three-
month average. The broader Topix index rose 0.1 percent.  Wynn Resorts asked a Nevada state court judge in a filing
for permission to amend the suit and remove claims that the
Universal chairman, a former Wynn board member, stole  trade
secrets , Okada said yesterday in a statement. He resigned as a
director before a shareholder vote to remove Okada, 70, last
month on allegations he made improper payments to Philippine
gambling officials.  The Wynn Resorts filing couldn’t immediately be confirmed
in court records. James Pisanelli, a lawyer for the company,
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking confirmation
that he made the filing. A copy of the court filing, bearing a
time stamp and clerk’s signature, was obtained by  Bloomberg
News .  Wynn Resorts told the judge it would drop the claims
because of the judge’s concerns about their validity, changing
its suit to focus on Okada’s conduct in the  Philippines  and the
length of time before Wynn Resorts learned about it, according
to the copy of the filing.  ‘Unsuitable’ Stakeholder  Universal shares gained today because of reports about
Okada’s statement on Wynn retracting allegations, Nobuyuki
Horiuchi, spokesman for the Tokyo-based company, said by phone.
Okada owned about 68 percent of Universal as of Sept. 30,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Okada is in a legal battle with Chief Executive Officer
Steve Wynn’s casino operator to recover a 20 percent stake
seized on allegations he was “unsuitable” as a controlling
shareholder because of the alleged improper payments to
Philippine officials.  Wynn forcibly redeemed the holding a year ago, paying Okada
a $1.9 billion promissory note worth about 30 percent less at
face value than the stake’s market price at the time.  The Universal chairman had helped  Steve Wynn  finance the
casino operator that went public in October 2002 and was its
largest individual shareholder until last February.  Okada had questioned a $135 million donation the company
made to a Macau university foundation. He has said Wynn wanted
him out because he opposed the university gift.  Wynn Resorts accused Okada of extending gifts and cash to
Asian casino regulators in violation of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act. Okada denied the allegations.  The case is Wynn Resorts v. Okada, A-12-656710-B, Clark
County District Court, Nevada ( Las Vegas ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in  New York  at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  