-- Yankees’ Teixeira Hurts Wrist, Will Skip World Baseball Classic
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2013-03-06T05:26:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/yankees-teixeira-out-with-wrist-injury-will-miss-world-classic.html
New York Yankees first baseman  Mark Teixeira  will have his strained right wrist evaluated today
after he was injured while taking swings in a batting cage,
forcing him off the U.S. squad for the World Baseball Classic.  Teixeira, 32, who played in the 2006 World Baseball Classic,
was scratched from a U.S. team exhibition yesterday against the
Chicago White Sox.  U.S. manager  Joe Torre , who led the Yankees to four World
Series titles during his New York tenure in 1996-2007, did not
immediately select a replacement.  “He took three or four light swings as he was starting to
get loose and he felt something,” Torre, 72, told reporters.
“The X-rays were fine, but an MRI showed a strain.”  The Yankees said in an e-mailed release that Teixeira, who
has averaged 32 home runs and 101 runs batted in since 2010,
will be examined today in New York.  The U.S. plays its first game in the 16-team international
tournament on March 8 against Mexico in Phoenix. Teixeira had
been projected as the starting first baseman for the U.S. team.  The Yankees have been bothered by injuries during spring
training. Outfielder Curtis Granderson broke his arm and is out
for two months, pitcher  Phil Hughes  is battling a bulging disk
in his upper back and shortstop  Derek Jeter  is recovering from
the broken ankle he suffered in last year’s playoffs.  “This is a club that I’ve seen go through this most of the
time that I’ve been here,” Yankees manager  Joe Girardi  told
reporters at the team’s spring training complex in Florida. “We
went through some injuries here and there and our guys have
found a way, and I really believe they’ll do that. Even if we
have to do it a different way, we’ll find a way.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  