-- Yansab Rises Most in Year on Global Growth Outlook: Riyadh Mover
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   D e e m a   A l m a s h a b i
-- 2013-03-06T14:06:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-06/yansab-rises-most-in-year-on-global-growth-outlook-riyadh-mover.html
Yanbu National Petrochemicals Co. (YANSAB)  of
Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest oil exporter, surged the most
in almost a year after improved U.S. jobs data boosted the
outlook for global economic growth.  Shares of a unit of the world’s largest petrochemicals
maker soared 4.9 percent, the most since April 18, to 53.25
riyals at the close in  Riyadh . The stock was the second-biggest
gainer on the benchmark  Tadawul All Share Index, (SASEIDX)  which rose 0.7
percent. About 1.5 million shares were traded, more than three
times the three-month daily average.  Saudi Basic Industries
Corp. (SABIC) , which owns 51 percent of Yansab, increased 0.3 percent.  The  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  advanced to a record
yesterday, erasing losses from the financial crisis after a
four-year rally fueled by the fastest profit growth since the
1990s and monetary stimulus from the Federal Reserve. The MSCI
World Index of developed global markets rose 0.3 percent to the
highest intraday level since June 2008 at 8:58 a.m. in New York
as a private jobs report showed companies took on more workers
than estimated in February.  “The rise in global markets signaled that demand for
petrochemicals may improve” which would boost earnings, Turki Fadaak, Riyadh-based head of research and consultancy at Albilad
Investment Co., said by e-mail.  Improved Profit  The Tadawul’s Petrochemical Industries Index gained 0.9
percent today as Brent crude traded near its highest level in
four days. Yansab has gained 13 percent this year, outpacing the
Tadawul’s 2.9 percent advance. The company may post a  14 percent
 advance in 2013 profit, according to the  mean estimate  of 13
analysts on Bloomberg. That compares with a drop of 23 percent
last year, when crude oil declined 7.1 percent.  Twelve of the 14 companies in the Tadawul’s petrochemicals
index gained today, with  National Petrochemical Co. (PETROCH)  jumping 3
percent and Sabic unit  Saudi Kayan Petrochemical Co. (KAYAN)  rising 0.9
percent. Nine  analysts  recommend investors buy the shares of
Yansab, while eight have a hold rating on the stock, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  