-- AIG Sues Over Right to Seek Damages for Sold Bonds
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-01-12T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-12/aig-sues-over-right-to-seek-damages-for-sold-bonds.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
sued to preserve its right to seek damages from the originators
of devalued residential mortgage-backed securities it had to
sell to the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York  in 2008.  AIG said in a complaint filed yesterday in  New York  state
court in  Manhattan  that  Maiden Lane II , an entity created by the
bank to buy $21 billion of the bonds to shore up the insurer’s
liquidity, alleges it owns the litigation claims for the bonds,
including claims brought by AIG against  Bank of America  Corp.
over Countrywide Financial Corp.’s mortgage-backed securities.  New York-based AIG on Jan. 9 declined to join its former
chief executive officer, Maurice “Hank” Greenberg, in a
lawsuit against the U.S. after lawmakers had said the case was
an insult to taxpayer who bailed out the insurer during the 2008
financial crisis.  The “filing relates to AIG’s ongoing litigation against
Bank of America in which AIG is asserting that Bank of America
defrauded AIG in connection with the sale of certain residential
mortgage-backed securities,” James Ankner, an AIG spokesman,
said in a statement.  “Specifically, AIG narrowly seeks a declaration from the
court that a 2008 contract between AIG and ML II did not
transfer to ML II AIG’s right to sue Bank of America and other
financial institutions for the billions of dollars of damages
they caused,” Ankner said, referring to Maiden Lane II.  Jack Gutt , a spokesman for the Federal Reserve Bank of New
York, declined to comment on the lawsuit.  ‘Long Abandoned’  AIG sued Bank of America’s Countrywide unit in 2011,
alleging it was misled into believing that loans underlying its
investment were issued according to certain underwriting
guidelines that in fact had been “long abandoned.” AIG seeks
$10 billion in damages from Countrywide, including $7 billion
from bonds it sold in the 2008 transaction.  Maiden Lane II was created by the New York Fed amid the
2008 financial crisis to buy about $39 billion in securities
linked to home loans from AIG. The bank purchased the securities
from AIG at less than their full par value. The vehicle was part
of the taxpayer rescue that swelled to $182.3 billion and helped
save the insurer from collapse. AIG finished repaying the
bailout in December.  In yesterday’s complaint, AIG said the New York Fed
provided Bank of America last month with declarations from two
of its executives who stated that AIG had transferred all
litigation claims to  Maiden Lane  II as part of the 2008 sale.  AIG also said that Bank of America in August 2011 received
a draft complaint on behalf of Maiden Lane II, as part of
settlement negotiations with the New York Fed over claims
arising from some of the securities AIG had sold, which Bank of
America argues shows that the New York Fed thought it had the
right to sue for damages from the securities.  Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Bank of America, declined to comment on AIG’s
claims.  The case is American International Group v. Maiden Lane,
650115/2013, New York State Supreme Court, County of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  