-- Anwar Urges ‘Fair’ Elections Ahead of Malaysian Polls
-- B y   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y
-- 2013-01-14T02:33:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-12/anwar-urges-free-and-fair-elections-ahead-of-malaysian-polls.html
(Corrects month in third paragraph of story first published
Jan. 12.)  Anwar Ibrahim ’s opposition coalition
held a rally in Kuala Lumpur today, testing official tolerance
for public dissent ahead of a general election due early this
year.  “We want a free and fair elections,” Anwar said in a
statement to Malaysians released publicly. “You have a vote and
I have a vote.  No one should steal our votes. We shall work to
defend our votes.”  Anwar’s three-party People’s Alliance secured police
permission for today’s “People’s Uprising Rally” in Merdeka
Stadium near the center of Malaysia’s capital, abiding a ban on
street protests introduced by Prime Minister Najib Razak’s
government last year. Police fired tear gas and arrested 512
people when a non-governmental organization campaigning for fair
elections staged an outdoor rally in April.  Coalition supporters today streamed into the stadium, which
has a capacity of 30,000. Organizers aimed to attract 1 million
people to the rally, Mohamad Sabu, deputy president of the Pan-
Malaysian Islamic Party, said in a telephone interview Jan. 11.  ‘The message is clear,” Anwar said. “Government cannot be
about ignoring the voices of the people.”  The  People’s Alliance  comprises Anwar’s multiracial
People’s Justice Party, the Pan-Malaysian Islamic Party and the
Democratic Action Party. Some Pan-Malaysian members support the
implementation of Islamic law, while the Democratic Action Party
has primarily ethnic Chinese members.  The U.S. Embassy, located 5 kilometers (3 miles) from the
stadium, issued an e-mailed circular yesterday urging U.S.
citizens to exercise caution and avoid the area.  Election Deadline  Najib, who must dissolve parliament for elections to be
held by April 28, saw his approval rating fall to 63 percent in
December from 65 percent in November, the lowest since he
received 59 percent support in August 2011, the Merdeka Center
for Opinion Research said Jan. 10. The survey showed those happy
with the government at 45 percent compared with 48 percent in
October.  Najib, 59, is entering the election season at a time of
comparative  economic  strength. While many developed countries
have faltered,  Malaysia ’s gross domestic product growth has
exceeded 5 percent for five quarters with domestic demand
countering a slowdown in  exports .  The benchmark FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index closed at a
record on Jan. 7, having risen more than 11 percent over the
past year. Najib cut income taxes and extended handouts for the
poor in his 2013 budget announced in September.  His National Front coalition is fighting to hold onto power
after governing Malaysia since independence in 1957. In the last
election in 2008, the ruling parties lost the two-thirds
majority in parliament they had held for four decades. Anwar’s
People’s Alliance today controls four out of the country’s 13
states, including Selangor and Penang.  The opposition planned to use today’s rally to lobby for
policies including clean elections, free education, boosting
mother-tongue languages and returning oil royalties to the
states, according to the Pan-Malaysian Islamic Party’s  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manirajan Ramasamy in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at   ptighe@bloomberg.net  