-- Australian Heat Wave Adds to Fire Risk in New South Wales
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-01-12T05:38:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-12/australian-temperatures-soar-raising-new-south-wales-fire-risk.html
Temperatures soared through much of
New South Wales, ensuring a total fire ban stayed in place as
firefighters battle blazes in the south of  Australia ’s most
populous state.  Temperatures  rose as high as 46.8 degrees Celsius (116
degrees Fahrenheit) in inland parts of the state today,
according to the  Bureau of Meteorology . Sydney peaked at 31
degrees, lower than previously forecast, as a cooler weather
system moved up the nation’s east coast, the bureau said. It got
as hot as 42 degrees in Newcastle, a city 167 kilometers (105
miles) to the north of Sydney.  An estimated 96 fires were burning in New South Wales, with
seven of those yet to be contained, according to  emergency
services . A fire ban will continue in eight areas of the state
tomorrow including the Queensland border region in the north,
the far west and central west plains and the Riverina region in
the southwest,  Sky News  reported, citing the state’s Rural Fire
Service.  “Some areas are getting a bit of a reprieve” from the
cooler weather system, Rural Fire Service spokesman Anthony
Clark told Sky News. Still “we are still going to see severe
and extreme fire danger ratings for much of the New South
Wales.”  Temperatures in Sydney are forecast to peak at 26 degrees
tomorrow, although some regions in the state may reach 38
degrees or higher, the Bureau of Meteorology said.  Winds, Lightning  Firefighters battled fires fanned by high winds in southern
parts of the state while in the north lightning strikes sparked
new blazes. Residents near Cooma, about 110 kilometers south of
the nation’s capital Canberra, were urged to be on alert as
winds stirred a fire that has already covered 10,000 hectares
(24,710 acres) and was threatening some rural properties.  Australia’s hot, dry climate makes bushfires a major risk
in the southern hemisphere’s summer. The continent registered a
national average of 40.33 degrees Celsius on Jan. 7, the hottest
day in more than 100 years of records.  Climate change  is increasing the risk of more frequent and
longer heat waves and more extreme hot days, as well as
exacerbating bushfire conditions, the Climate Commission, an
independent group of Australian climate scientists, said in a
report today.  ‘A Hotter World’  “We live in a hotter world and the risk of more frequent
and severe extreme weather has already increased,” David Karoly,
the University of Melbourne professor who wrote the report, said
in an e-mailed statement.  The worst fires in the nation’s history, the so-called
Black Saturday blazes, killed 173 people as they swept through
rural areas of Victoria state in February 2009.  While a fire ban in Victoria was lifted today, the fire
danger rating remains high or very high throughout the state,
according to the Country Fire Service website. Emergency
services in the island state of Tasmania, where more than 3,000
people were forced from their homes earlier in the week, urged
residents near the Tasman Peninsula to be vigilant.  Forecasters are also watching Severe Tropical  Cyclone
Narelle  off Australia’s resource-rich northwestern coast in
Western Australia state. The storm has triggered the evacuation
of off-shore natural-gas workers for  Apache Corp. (APA)  and  Chevron
Corp. (CVX)  and saw Rio Tinto Group suspend iron-ore loading onto
ships because of port closures.  Narelle was cut to category 4, after earlier being graded
at the highest category 5, and the storm center is moving south,
remaining off the coast, the Bureau of Meteorology said.  The Dampier Port Authority reopened its terminal today as
the threat from the cyclone passed, a spokeswoman said.  The storm is forecast to trigger high tides, heavy rain and
wind gusts of more than 100 kilometers an hour in coastal areas
today, the bureau said. It’s not expected to make landfall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  