-- Azeris Defy Protest Ban Using Facebook to Rally Over Army Death
-- B y   Z u l f u g a r   A g a y e v
-- 2013-01-12T15:41:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-12/azeris-defy-protest-ban-using-facebook-to-rally-over-army-death.html
Azeri protesters defied a ban on
demonstrations to rally against violence in the former Soviet
republic’s army after a conscript died this week. About 50
people were taken into police custody.  The activists, who gathered support through the  Facebook
Inc. (FB)  social network, chanted “Stop killings of soldiers” and
“Stop turning the army into a morgue” while marching through
Fountains’ Square and central Baku today before riot police
dispersed them.  The Facebook campaign, which was joined by nearly 17,000
people as of today, was prompted by the Jan. 7 death of an 18-
year-old conscript, Ceyhun Qubadov, at an army base in the
western Daskasan district. Qubadov’s mother said he was beaten
to death, according to video statements on the social network.  An army commander was reprimanded and criminal proceedings
initiated, the  Defense Ministry  said yesterday on its website.  About 350 to 400 people attended the rally, Ehsan Zahidov,
a spokesman for the police, said by phone. About 20 of those
detained were released, and the remaining 30 may face fines or
short jail terms.  Energy-rich Azerbaijan’s army, largely conscript-based,
lost 77 soldiers in non-combat incidents last year, Jasur
Sumarinli, head of the Doctrine Center of Military Studies, said
by phone from Baku yesterday. Many of the deaths were caused by
hazing and illness, he said.  Military service is mandatory for all men aged 18 to 35 in
the Caspian Sea nation, which has a population of 9 million. The
government has rejected calls to move to an all-volunteer force
because of a military standoff with neighboring  Armenia .  President  Ilham Aliyev , who took over from his father in
disputed elections in 2003, is expected to run for a third term
in office in the planned presidential election in October.
Heydar Aliyev had led Azerbaijan for the better part of three
decades before dropping his re-election bid in favor of his son
in 2003 because of ill health.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zulfugar Agayev in Baku at 
 zagayev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net  