-- Billionaire Soon-Shiong Says Technology Helps Retailers
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   C o r y   J o h n s o n
-- 2013-01-12T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-12/billionaire-soon-shiong-says-idream-technology-to-help-retailers.html
Billionaire Patrick Soon-Shiong said
his iD technology, software that identifies objects in real
time, will help retailers become more than showrooms for
competing online merchants.  In an interview on Bloomberg Television, Soon-Shiong said
mobile phones and tablet computers such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad can
run the iD software from his NantWorks LLC, technology initially
developed a decade ago for NASA’s Mars Rover, creating new
commercial uses.  Best Buy Co. (BBY)  and other retailers complain customers visit
their stores to sample products and purchase later for less at
online stores like  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  The technology can recognize
a building, such as a Starbucks cafe, communicate with a
database and offer consumers a coupon, Soon-Shiong said. Grocery
shoppers can point a device at cereal boxes for nutritional data
or discounts, he said.  “You would go into a retail store, and all of a sudden the
retail store would become a theme park and all the products
would come to life,” Soon-Shiong said. “This allows retailers
to not just be a showroom, but to become a theme park.”  Soon-Shiong is worth about $7.1 billion, according to the
 Bloomberg Billionaires Index . He sold APP Pharmaceuticals Inc.
to Fresenius SE in 2008 for $4.6 billion and Abraxis BioScience
Inc. in 2010 to  Celgene Corp. (CELG)  for $2.9 billion.  Originally, iD technology was also intended to assist the
visually impaired, Soon-Shiong said. A user could hold an iD
device in front of an open cupboard, for example, and hear the
names of items inside.  Commercial Uses  Commercial applications have only become possible in the
past few years, with faster processors and better digital
cameras, Soon-Shiong said. In October, Los Angeles-based
NantWorks formed a joint venture with Malibu, California-based
 Jakks Pacific Inc. (JAKK) , DreamPlay Toys, to use the technology in
toys. This week the companies announced a toy venture with  Walt
Disney Co. (DIS)   “We have been working on this for the last decade,” he
said, referring to the techology.  Soon-Shiong is the second-largest stockholder in Jakks,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, with a 9 percent stake
valued at about $25 million.  With the ability to create Internet links to images of
objects in real time, the software also extends to Web search,
Soon-Shiong said. A device will be able to recognize a photo in
a newspaper, for example, and direct a user to a live newscast
covering the same event, he said.  “The breakthrough we have made is the ability to recognize
millions and millions of images,” Soon-Shiong said. “It has
the ability to recognize 3-D objects and recognize moving images
such as video.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Cory Johnson in  San Francisco  at 
 cjohnson114@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  