-- Canadian Dollar Rises on Chinese Demand for Commodities
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-01-12T05:00:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-12/canadian-dollar-rises-on-chinese-demand-for-commodities.html
Canada ’s dollar gained for the
second straight week versus its U.S peer as traders speculated
faster growth in China would translate into more demand for the
nation’s commodity exports.  The currency pared gains yesterday after a report showed
Canada’s trade deficit widened to the fourth-largest on record
in November as shipments to  Europe  fell. China posted exports
five times higher than economists forecast and reported
inflation quickened as its economy grew faster than expected.  “It’s having a bit of a relief rally on the positive
outlook for China and that’s kind of affecting it and should
hopefully give it direction over the next quarter,” Eimear Daly, a currency analyst at Monex Europe Ltd., said by phone
from  London . “The positive outlook for China is positive” for
the Canadian currency, she said.  The loonie, as the dollar is nicknamed for the image of the
aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, rose 0.2 percent to 98.48 cents
per  U.S. dollar  this week. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0154.
The currency strengthened 2.9 percent last year.  Futures on crude oil, Canada’s biggest export, rose 0.6
percent this week to $93.73 per barrel in  New York , and the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.4 percent.  Benchmark 10-year Canadian government bonds were little
changed, with yields ending the week at 1.94 percent. The price
of the 2.75 percent note maturing in June 2022 fell 3 cents to
C$106.93.  Future Positions  Hedge funds  and other large speculators pared bets that the
Canadian dollar will gain against the greenback, figures from
the Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.
The difference in the number of wagers on an advance in the
Canadian dollar compared with those on a drop, known as net
longs, was 64,005 on Jan. 8, compared with net longs of 65,926 a
week earlier.  China ’s exports rose 14.1 percent in December from a year
earlier, while imports increased 6 percent, leaving a trade
surplus of $31.6 billion, the Chinese customs administration
said Jan. 10.  In another sign of faster growth, China’s consumer price
index rose 2.5 percent in December from a year earlier to the
highest level in seven months, compared to a 2 percent gain in
November.  “The strong trade numbers that we had out of China, that
may be also part of the reason why risk currencies have done
well in the second part of the week, and maybe a small positive
for the Canadian dollar,” said Audrey Childe-Freeman, head
foreign-exchange strategist at Bank of Montreal, by phone from
London.  Commodity Currencies  The loonie’s move past Dec. 13’s high of 98.25 cents per
U.S. dollar signals it may appreciate beyond 98 cents, according
to a note from  George Davis , chief technical analyst at  RBC
Capital Markets , a unit of Royal Bank of Canada.  The loonie’s gain against its U.S. counterpart trailed
those of other commodity currencies, including the Australian
dollar which saw a 0.6 percent increase.  “We’ve rallied a lot less, we’ve been a really low-beta
mover this week,”  Shane Enright ,  executive director  at Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce’s CIBC World Markets unit, said by
phone from Toronto. “So Canada has been an under-performer for
the last few days.” An asset with a high beta tends to rise and
fall more than the overall market.  The loonie fell 0.6 percent over the past month versus nine
developed-nation peers tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes. The greenback has dropped 0.9 percent.  ‘Mitigating Factor’  Canada recorded a C$1.96 billion ($1.99 billion) trade
deficit in November, up from a revised C$552 million shortfall
in October,  Statistics Canada  said yesterday in Ottawa.  The
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of economists was for a
C$600 million deficit.  “The trade deficit absolutely worked to pare some of those
gains,”  Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign exchange at
 National Bank of Canada , said in a telephone interview. “Taking
the Canadian number in the context of it being a mitigating
factor with respect to first-quarter growth, that could play
into the weakness.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  