-- CBS to Debut Stephen King Summer Thriller Amid Ratings Slippage
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-01-13T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-12/cbs-to-debut-stephen-king-summer-thriller-amid-ratings-slippage.html
CBS, the most watched TV network,
downplayed a recent ratings slide and yesterday announced four
new summer programs, including a sci-fi series based on a
Stephen King novel.  Among 18-to-49-year-old viewers, those most coveted by
advertisers, the network is “off maybe a 10th of where we were
exactly this time last year,” and remains No. 1 with 25-to-54
year-olds, entertainment chief Nina Tassler told reporters in
Pasadena, California.  “I wouldn’t say there’s been much of a slippage,” she
said of viewership. “We’re not a niche broadcaster. We want
everybody.”  The network’s new summer programs include “Under the
Dome,” a sci-fi thriller set in a Maine town that is suddenly
covered by an impenetrable force field. It’s being produced by
Stephen Spielberg’s Amblin Entertainment. The others are a
reality series featuring amateurs in baking competitions, and
summer premieres of the reality game show “Big Brother” and
“Unforgetable,” a police procedural show entering its second
season.  Tassler said the network is in negotiations for an 11th
season of the comedy “Two and a Half Men.”  The  CBS Corp. (CBS)  network, down 7.7 percent in total viewers
since September, will probably recoup audience losses for the
season with the  Super Bowl  and Grammy Awards next month. The
broadcaster recently sold its final Super Bowl ad, Chief
Executive Officer  Leslie Moonves  said at a Jan. 8 news
conference. Some 30-second spots fetched $4 million, he said.  Major Broadcasters  With the exception of Comcast Corp.’s NBC, major
broadcasters have lost viewers in the season that began in
September. Through Jan. 6, News Corp.’s Fox is down 20 percent
in the 18-to-49-year-old group. CBS is down 16 percent and Walt
Disney Co.’s ABC is down 8 percent, according to Nielsen data.
NBC is up 19 percent.  David Letterman , CBS’s late-night host, is facing a new
challenge in the time period from ABC’s Jimmy Kimmel, who moved
to 11:35 p.m. starting Jan. 8. Kimmel out-drew Letterman and
NBC’s “Tonight Show with  Jay Leno ” on Jan. 10, according to
Nielsen data supplied by the TV networks.  CBS is making shows available through streaming services
from  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , Amazon.com Inc. and Hulu.com. The company
also has been adding episodes of current shows to video-on-
demand services provided by  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  and other
pay-TV systems that include commercials and restrict the ability
to fast-forward.  Super Bowl  “It’s a new world out there,” Tassler said. “We have a
new reality. We all have to look at all things a little
differently.”  Every division at New York-based CBS will work together to
promote the Super Bowl telecast, Moonves said. The network will
start its coverage of the game six days before it airs, he said.  The Super Bowl, the National Football League championship,
is being held in New Orleans this year and will air on Feb. 3 at
6:30 p.m.  New York  time, according to CBS’s website. Last year’s
Super Bowl win by the  New York Giants  was seen by a record 111.3
million viewers.  CBS, controlled by Chairman  Sumner Redstone , gained 0.1
percent to $38.57 on Jan. 11 in New York. The stock climbed 40
percent in 2012, exceeding the 13 percent rise in the Standard
and Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  