-- Czech Ex-Premier, Foreign Minister in Presidential Vote
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-01-12T16:40:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-12/czech-ex-premier-foreign-minister-in-presidential-vote.html
Former Czech Prime Minister Milos
Zeman and Foreign Minister Karel Schwarzenberg will compete to
replace European Union critic Vaclav Klaus in a Jan. 25-26 run-
off in the country’s first direct presidential election.  Zeman, the former Social Democrat leader who ran as an
independent, took the most ballots in the first round with 24
percent, according to results published by the Electoral
Committee on the Czech Statistics Office  website  today. In a
surprise second-place showing, the pro-EU Schwarzenberg got 23
percent. Former Prime Minister Jan Fischer, seen as Zeman’s main
opponent after running just behind him in opinion polls, was
third with 16 percent.  The eastern EU member of 10.5 million is electing a new
head of state while the country is mired in its second  recession 
since 2009. The economy is showing weak domestic demand as
households and businesses cut spending due to government
austerity programs and the euro area’s debt crisis, prompting
the central bank to lower  interest rates  to effectively zero.  “This sets up a vote between a candidate from the left,
and one from the right,” Zeman told reporters today. “It’s
true, I am associated with the past. But Mr. Schwarzenberg is
answerable for what the current government has done.”  Klaus, who was the  Czech Republic ’s most high-profile
critic of the EU and its common currency, is forbidden by law to
seek the post again after his second term ends on March 7. One
of his most eminent acts during his 10-year presidency was to
delay signing of the EU’s Lisbon Treaty in 2009.  Presidential Powers  The president, who was until now elected by lawmakers,
selects the political leader who attempts to form a government
after general elections and influences  monetary policy  by
holding the sole right to name central bank board members. The
position’s powers haven’t changed under the new voting system.  Zeman, 68, and Klaus were rivals in the 1990s when they
headed the two largest political parties in the country. Zeman,
an economist who worked as a forecaster in the academy of
science shortly after the fall of communism in 1989, eventually
won the premier’s office in 1998 when his  Social Democrats 
formed a minority government that ruled thanks to an agreement
with the opposition Civic Democrats, then led by Klaus.  His economic program for the presidential race included
calls for more state investment and restoration of progressive
taxation of higher earners. He has opposed Prime Minister Petr
Necas’s pension overhaul, a plan designed to boost private
retirement savings that was among reasons cited by  Standard &
Poor’s  when it raised the rating on the country’s debt two steps
to AA-, its fourth-highest grade, in 2011.  Supporting Growth  Zeman said he would name central bankers who support
economic growth and not strive only to meet the inflation and
currency-stability goals mandated by the law.  In stark contrast to Klaus, Schwarzenberg, 75, is a strong
advocate for deeper integration with the EU. Born into an
aristocratic family, he was forced to leave the then
 Czechoslovakia  for  Austria  after the communists took power in
1948. He served as the chancellor for the first post-communist
president,  Vaclav Havel , and became foreign minister in 2007.  Two years later the government collapsed while the Czechs
held the EU’s rotating presidency, prompting Schwarzenberg to
start his own party, TOP09, which promotes EU ties and fiscal
responsibility. In 2010, it joined a coalition to form a three-
party government with Necas as premier.  “Milos Zeman represents the past and I want change,”
Schwarzenberg said after it became clear he would advance to the
second round.  Turnout in the first round was 61 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  