-- Lockheed’s F-35 Falls Short of Testinig Goals in 2012
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-01-14T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-12/f-35-marine-model-stress-testing-halted-over-cracks.html
  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35 fell
short of meeting testing goals last year even as the fighter jet
made 18 percent more flights than planned, according to the
Pentagon’s testing office.  “The lag in accomplishing the intended 2012 flight testing
content” will “contribute to the program delivering less
capability in production aircraft in the near term,”  Michael Gilmore , the Pentagon’s testing director, said in an annual
report to Congress on the Pentagon’s costliest weapons system.  Development of the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter has been
marked by delays and cost increases. The Pentagon estimates the
total cost for development and production of 2,443 F-35s will be
$395.7 billion, a 70 percent increase since the initial contract
with Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed Martin was signed in
2001.  While the 1,092 test flights tallied last year through
November exceeded the planned rate, the aircraft met 4,711 of
the specific goals set for 2012. It fell about 28 percent short
of completing those “test points,” according to Gilmore’s
report sent to Congress on Jan. 11.  “Certain test conditions were unachievable due to
unresolved problems and new discoveries,” Gilmore said in the
report. The need for repeat testing of fixes on the aircraft
“displaced opportunities to meet flight test objectives.”  Gilmore said the F-35 met 8,750 test points last year if
the tally includes those achieved ahead of time for this year
and beyond.  ‘Limited Progress’  Gilmore’s annual report and a separate one by the U.S.
Government Accountability Office are the primary independent
assessments to evaluate progress of the F-35. The most recent
GAO report was published in March.  With 34 percent of planned flight testing on the F-35
completed, “the program made limited progress in 2012 in
fielding capability despite relatively high sorties and test
point completion rates,” Gilmore said.  The Marine Corps in November set up its first operational
squadron in Yuma,  Arizona , and the  Air Force  last month declared
the aircraft advanced enough to accelerate the training of
student pilots.  The F-35 is being produced while it’s still being
developed, an approach called concurrency that was intended to
deliver new weapons faster and save money.  Frank Kendall, the
undersecretary of defense for acquisition, last year called the
dual-track approach “acquisition malpractice.”  More Planes  Scrutiny of the F-35’s performance and readiness may
heighten as the number of planes produced is scheduled to
increase from 29 in fiscal 2014 to 44 in 2015 and 66 by 2016.  The Pentagon’s current plan calls for spending $69 billion
by the time flight-testing ends in 2017, buying 365 aircraft, or
about 15 percent of the planned U.S. total, according to the GAO
report last year.  Joe DellaVedova, spokesman for the Pentagon’s F-35 program
office, didn’t respond to a request for comment on Gilmore’s
report.  For the third consecutive year, Lockheed Martin is meeting
goals set down in the Pentagon’s Technical Baseline Review,
which revamped the F-35 program, company spokesman Michael Rein
said in an e-mailed statement.  “Lockheed Martin believes the program is demonstrating
exceptional stability, certainly significantly greater than any
legacy aircraft development program, which is a primary measure
for” the development test and evaluation phase, he said.  Gaining Weight  Each year, as issues are discovered in testing, “our
flight test team identifies additional test objectives that can
be accomplished while we resolve the issues discovered,” Rein
said. “While we remain diligent to ensure deferred test
objectives are ultimately completed, the aggregate plan remains
on track.”  Among challenges facing the F-35 is that the aircraft is
close to its planned maximum weight, leaving little room to
install additional parts to improve reliability and performance,
Gilmore said.  The complicated Marine Corps version, which must withstand
short takeoffs and landings on carriers and amphibious warfare
vessels, is within 231 pounds (105 kilograms) of its planned
maximum weight of 32,577 pounds, according to the report.  “Managing weight growth with such small margins will
continue to be a significant program challenge,” it said.  Gilmore’s report also disclosed that durability testing on
the Marine version, the F-35B, was halted last month after
“multiple” cracks were discovered.  Rein said “we have implemented the fixes” and “expect to
resume static testing shortly, as early as” later this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  