-- First Quantum Tells Inmet Any Stake Sale Is Inappropriate
-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2013-01-13T05:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-12/first-quantum-tells-inmet-any-stake-sale-would-be-inappropriate.html
First Quantum Minerals Ltd. (FM) , in a
letter to  Inmet Mining Corp. (IMN) , told the company “it’s not the
time” to sell a stake in its Cobre  Panama  copper project to
thwart First Quantum’s C$5.1 billion ($5.2 billion) hostile bid.  Some Inmet shareholders have expressed concern that the
Toronto-based copper producer is proposing to complete a sale of
a further minority interest in the Cobre Panama project, First
Quantum said in the letter released yesterday. The concerns are
“apparently based upon discussions with a senior executive
officer of Inmet,” it said. Neither the potential buyers nor
the executive were identified.  “We consider that any attempt to complete such a
transaction during the currency of our offer would be
inappropriate in the circumstances and constitute an improper
short term defensive tactic in response to our long term
strategic proposal,” First Quantum Chief Executive Officer
Philip Pascall said in the letter to Inmet’s Chairman David Beatty.  Inmet’s board is “well aware of its duties and
responsibilities” concerning the offer, the company said in a
statement following First Quantum’s disclosure of the letter.  The correspondence “is plainly hostile and
counterproductive,” Inmet said in its statement. Inmet said its
board and advisers are evaluating the offer as well other
alternatives, without detailing them.  Second-Largest  A recommendation will be made to Inmet shareholders on or
before Jan. 24, the company said, and advised holders to take no
action nor tender shares to First Quantum.  Vancouver-based First Quantum on Jan. 9 took its C$72-a-
share offer in cash and stock to Inmet investors after twice
being snubbed by Inmet’s board. It’s seeking to gain control of
Inmet’s copper project in Panama to create one of the world’s
five largest producers of the metal.  Inmet Chief Executive Officer Jochen Tilk said on a July 31
conference call that it was looking at selling a 10 percent to
20 percent minority interest in Cobre Panama.  The First Quantum offer requires acceptance by holders of
66 percent of Inmet shares.  Leucadia National Corp. (LUK) , which owns
a 16 percent stake in Inmet, said on Jan. 10 it plans to tender
its shares in support of First Quantum’s takeover proposal.  Cobre Panama is the second-largest copper venture under
construction, after Rio Tinto Group’s Oyu Tolgoi mine in
Mongolia, according to a November presentation posted on Inmet’s
website. The project will cost about $6.2 billion and produce an
average of 266,000 metric tons a year of the metal, which has
more than quadrupled in price in the past 10 years in New York.  A stake sale “risks being value destroying, further
reducing the flexibility of developing Cobre Panama without in
any way diminishing the execution risk,” First Quantum said in
its statement yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at   jviljoen@bloomberg.net  