-- Flu Cases Widespread in U.S. While Some States Improve
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2013-01-12T18:10:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-12/flu-cases-widespread-in-u-s-while-some-states-improve.html
Flu is  widespread  in 47 states and
deaths from the virus and pneumonia are slightly above the
epidemic level, though some regions may begin to see fewer
cases, U.S. disease trackers said.  The  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention  reported 20
children died from the flu so far. The Atlanta-based agency
doesn’t tally adult deaths until after the end of the season.
Two children in  New York  have died from the flu, and more than
19,100 cases in the state prompted a public health emergency.  The influenza outbreak that prompted  Boston  to declare a
health emergency has led to increasing hospital admissions and
crowded emergency rooms in facilities around the country.
Twenty-four states and  New York City  reported high levels of
out-patient visits for flu-like illness, according to a
surveillance report released yesterday. Sixteen states had
moderate levels, five had low levels, and one,  Hawaii , saw
minimal levels of the illness.  “The bottom line: it’s flu season,”  Thomas Frieden ,
director of the CDC, said yesterday during a conference call
with reporters. “Most of the country has seen the flu and this
will continue for a number of weeks.”  New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo  declared a public health
emergency in response to the outbreak with cases being reported
in all 57 counties and all five boroughs of New York City.
Nearly 3,000 people have been hospitalized with the flu, the
governor’s office said in a statement.  Flu Activity  While flu activity remains high in the U.S. it may be
decreasing, based on trends for the week Dec. 30 through Jan. 5,
the CDC said yesterday in the report. Flu activity in the South
and Southeastern U.S. may soon be see improving conditions, the
CDC said during a conference call.  Influenza normally causes symptoms such as coughing,
sneezing, headaches and body aches, fever, chills, and sometimes
vomiting and diarrhea. Severe cases of flu are normally seen in
very young and very old people whose immune systems are too weak
to fight off the virus, and annual  vaccination  is recommended
for vulnerable people and those who come into contact with them.  Flu Season  Flu outbreaks can occur as early as October in the northern
hemisphere and peak in January or later. In the past 30-year
period, most flu activity peaked in February, according to the
CDC.  Anyone older than 6 months of age should be vaccinated, the
CDC said. The effectiveness of the  flu vaccine  is estimated to
be moderate at 62 percent, according to a report yesterday by
the CDC.  Also yesterday, the Boston Public Health Commission raised
the number of confirmed influenza cases in the city thus far to
750. The total number confirmed in Boston during the previous
season was 70. Boston Mayor Thomas Menino declared a public
health emergency Jan. 9, when the commission said 700 confirmed
cases had been reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  