-- French Airstrikes Counter Northern Mali Islamist Insurgency
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l   a n d   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2013-01-13T09:58:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-12/french-airstrikes-counter-northern-mali-s-islamist-insurgency.html
French airstrikes sought to halt an
offensive by Islamist rebels in northern  Mali  as west African
nations pledged to send about 2,000 soldiers to oust the
militants.  France’s intervention in its former colony will last “as
long as is needed,” President Francois Hollande said yesterday
in a televised speech in Paris. Separately, in Somalia, French
special forces failed to free a French intelligence officer who
had been held hostage for three years, resulting in his death.  In Mali “France has no other objective than to safeguard a
country that is a friend,” Hollande said. “It doesn’t have
another goal than fighting terrorism,” and it has the backing
of the international community, he said.  France and west African states want to stop Mali from being
overrun by the militants, a development they say would give
terrorists a base for destabilizing the region and  Europe . Rapid
progress by the rebels last week prompted France to start
military action, almost nine months earlier than most analysts
had predicted.  While the French action will temporarily stop the Islamist
advance, a larger ground force will have to be sent in to
destroy them, said Sebastian Spio-Garbrah, managing director of
New York-based risk consultancy DaMina Advisors LLP.  “France’s unilateral military action weakens that Africa-
led UN mandate for forces and introduces an anti-colonial
element to the Islamist fight,” he said yesterday by e-mail.
“Ecowas is totally not ready, and France is not willing to keep
the commandos on the ground for too long either,” he said,
referring to the 15-nation west African economic bloc.  U.S. Options  The first contingent of Ecowas troops from Nigeria, Togo,
 Niger  should be in Mali no later than today, Ivorian Integration
Minister Ally Coulibaly said by telephone yesterday from
Abidjan. Ivory Coast’s president holds the rotating chairmanship
of the Economic Community of West African States.  The U.S. is considering providing intelligence,
surveillance and logistics support, according to a Pentagon
official who spoke on condition of anonymity yesterday.  The U.K. will give logistical assistance to help transport
troops and equipment to Mali, Prime Minister David Cameron told
Hollande in a phone call yesterday, according to a statement.  Mali vies with Tanzania to be  Africa ’s third-biggest gold
producer. The landlocked nation is about twice the size of  Texas 
and has a population of about 15.5 million, according to the  CIA
World Factbook . Life expectancy is about 53 years.  Terror Threat  In yesterday’s hostilities, assaults by French helicopters
and Mirage fighter jets flying out of  Chad  destroyed vehicles
near the rebel-held town of Kona as well as a command post,
French Defense Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian said in a news
conference. A French helicopter pilot was killed in action near
the central city of Mopti. Hundreds of French troops were in
Bamako, the capital, he said.  More than 100 people, including rebels and Malian
government soldiers, were killed in the day’s fighting, Xinhua
reported, citing an unidentified Malian military official.  The military operations prompted France to intensify its
domestic anti-terror measures. While the threat level remained
at “red,” surveillance of public buildings and transport
infrastructure was increased, Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault
said in an e-mailed statement. Soldiers could be seen yesterday
patrolling the Champs-Elysees Avenue in Paris.  “The situation in Mali is serious and has quickly
deteriorated in the past days,” Le Drian said. Terrorist groups
“began an offensive in the south of the country that aims to
destabilize the whole of Mali,” he said.  UN Security Council  The Islamist rebels, who already control the north of the
country, last week began an offensive that captured the town of
Kona, 30 kilometers (19 miles) north of Mopti, the last Malian
military outpost before insurgent-held territory.  “The threat is that a terrorist state will be created near
Europe and  France ,” Le Drian said. “We had to react before it
was too late. They won’t succeed. We are determined to prevent
this,” he said.  The UN Security Council on Jan. 10 expressed “grave
concern” about attacks by “terrorist and extremist groups” in
Mali. Hollande said France’s military actions are covered by a
Dec. 21 Security Council resolution that approved a west African
military operation to retake the north.  Nigeria has already sent Major General U. Abdulkadri, who
will lead the Ecowas force, and an air force technical team to
Mali, Reuben Abati, a spokesman for President Goodluck Jonathan,
said by telephone yesterday. The country plans to deploy about
600 soldiers to Mali.  Ecowas Soldiers  Burkina Faso plans to contribute 500 soldiers, Foreign
Minister Djibril Bassole said in a statement handed to reporters
today in the capital, Ouagadougou.  Malian Interim President Dioncounda Traore, backed by
governments in neighboring countries, asked for the French
intervention. Other European countries support France’s military
action, named Operation Serval after an African wild cat, though
they aren’t participating, Le Drian said.  Islamist groups including the Movement for Unity and Jihad
in West Africa, Ansar ud-Din and al-Qaeda’s north African unit,
along with Touareg separatists, took control of an area of
northern Mali the size of France after a military coup led by
Captain Amadou Sanogo in March.  The French presence improves the viability of the civilian
transitional government,  Samir Gadio , a London-based emerging-
markets strategist at Standard Bank Group Ltd. said.  Somali Raid  “It effectively undermines the power base of Captain
Sanogo and his associates in the Malian army now that foreign
troops are on the ground,” Gadio said in an e-mailed reply to
questions yesterday.  Also yesterday, French special forces operating in Somalia
failed to free a French intelligence officer who had been held
for more than three years. Hostage Denis Allex was
“undoubtedly” killed along with two French soldiers during the
operation, Hollande said. Earlier in the day, Defense Minister
Le Drian had said 17 captors were killed during the mission
while one French soldier was killed and another had disappeared.  According to an e-mailed statement from al-Qaeda’s Somali
affiliate, al-Shabaab, French troops in five helicopters
attacked a house in the town of Bulomarer based on inaccurate
information that the hostage was there. Allex, they said, was in
a location far from the assault and his fate will be announced
by tomorrow. The group also said it had captured a French
soldier.  Hostages  Allex was an operative with France’s intelligence agency,
known by its French acronym DGSE, Le Drian said. He was on
assignment with Somalia’s transitional federal government when
he was kidnapped from a Mogadishu hotel on July 14, 2009,
France’s national day, according to the Defense Ministry.  In Mali, Hollande is also grappling with the capture of six
French hostages in the desert that runs between Mali and Niger.
The rebels pushing south in Mali are the same people holding the
captives, whose “lives are threatened,” according to Le Drian.
Efforts to free them continue.  Hollande’s go-alone decision to intervene in Mali without
European countries or the U.S. is a sign that there was urgency
or “Bamako would have fallen,” Jean-Pierre Maulny, a deputy
director at the Institute For International and Strategic
Relations in Paris, said on BFM TV. “France may put a very
small number of special forces on the ground to fight but this
isn’t a major intervention.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  