-- Greek Lawmakers Pass Tax Bill Required for EU, IMF Bailout Funds
-- B y   P a u l   T u g w e l l   a n d   A n t o n i s   G a l a n o p o u l o s
-- 2013-01-12T08:57:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-12/greek-lawmakers-pass-tax-bill-required-for-eu-imf-bailout-funds.html
Greek lawmakers passed a tax bill
seeking to raise state revenue by 2.3 billion euros ($3.1
billion), part of commitments demanded by international
creditors in order to continue to receive further bailout funds.  “The tax bill is a fiscal necessity, a prerequisite in
order for us to get the next loan tranche,” Finance Minister
Yannis Stournaras told lawmakers ahead of today’s vote in
comments broadcast live on Vouli TV.  Euro-area finance ministers approved 49.1 billion euros of
rescue payments to  Greece  on Dec. 13 to keep the recession-
wracked country solvent, with 34.3 billion euros paid
immediately. Greece must meet certain conditions to get further
payments in early 2013, Jean-Claude Juncker, head of the group
of 17 euro-area finance chiefs, said at the time.  With the tax changes “we’re significantly broadening the
tax base via the compulsory declaration of all income from all
citizens and through the full inclusion in the tax system of
those who up until now have been taxed less,” Stournaras said.  Stournaras said earlier this month that the tax bill is the
most decisive prior action required for further bailout funds to
be disbursed. The bill comprises 24 changes, including reducing
the number of tax brackets to three from eight with a new top
rate of 42 percent for individuals who earn 42,000 euros or more
a year.  Other changes include cutting the corporate tax rate to
32.8 percent from 40 percent and imposing a 20 percent capital
gains tax on Greek stocks from July 1. The changes place more of
the payment obligation on businesses, especially the self-
employed, reducing the burden on employees and pensioners by 100
million euros compared with 2012, Stournaras told lawmakers.  The bill had to be voted on before a meeting later this
month of euro-area finance ministers who will determine whether
to release Greece’s next tranche of funds, Stournaras said on
Jan. 4.  Another tax bill that will include measures to tackle tax
evasion will be submitted to parliament for approval by May,
Stournaras said before today’s vote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Tugwell in Athens at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net ;
Antonis Galanopoulos in Athens at 
 agalanopoulo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  