-- Obama Says Afghan Forces Accelerate Taking Security Lead
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2013-01-12T22:16:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-12/obama-says-afghan-forces-accelerate-taking-security-lead.html
President  Barack Obama  said Afghan
forces will take over the lead security role for their country
within a few months, sooner than planned, underscoring his
resolve to extricate the U.S. from the 11-year war.  Obama described the accelerated transition at a White House
news conference yesterday with visiting Afghan President  Hamid Karzai . The two leaders met as the Obama administration
considers options for how many support troops to keep in
 Afghanistan  after 2014 -- from none to several thousand or more.  “Today we agreed that as Afghan forces take the lead and
as President Karzai announces the final phase of the transition,
coalition forces will move to a support role this spring,”
Obama said, referring to 102,000 international coalition troops
under U.S. command as of last month.  The U.S. hasn’t determined how the stepped-up timetable for
Afghan-led security will affect the pace of withdrawing the
66,000 American combat troops now there. Obama stressed
yesterday that any U.S. troops that might remain in training or
support roles after 2014 must be granted immunity from Afghan
prosecution or they won’t stay.  “Nowhere do we have any kind of security agreement with a
country without immunity for our troops,” Obama said. “It will
not be possible for us to have any kind of U.S. troop presence
post-2014 without assurances” of such protection.  Aid Talks  The U.S. and its North Atlantic Treaty Organization
partners have agreed to bring combat troops home from
Afghanistan by the end of 2014. The U.S. and Afghanistan are in
talks over how many American military personnel may stay in a
supporting role, as well as how much aid will be provided.  Karzai, in an interview scheduled for broadcast Monday on
“ CNN  International’s Amanpour,” said his nation is prepared to
assume more responsibility.  “We can’t be forever and without end dependent on the
international community, or a burden,” he said. “We have to
provide for our own security.”  Karzai said he didn’t expect the U.S. to completely
withdraw after 2014. “It’s not for us to decide” the final
number of troops remaining, he said.  Karzai told CNN he’s confident the U.S. will follow through
on his requests made in recent years for equipment such as
aircraft, helicopters and mechanized armor.  “We’ll get helicopters, we’ll get armored vehicles in the
thousands, we’ll get all other tools, military tools, that we
require,” he said in the interview, which was taped yesterday.  Withdrawal Agreement  Karzai was in  Washington  for meetings with Obama and other
administration officials as the U.S. negotiates terms to wind
down the longest war in U.S. history, a conflict that began a
month after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks and has cost the lives
of 2,165 American military personnel and $557 billion through
fiscal 2012, according to the nonpartisan  Congressional Research
Service .  The Obama administration is seeking from Congress $9.7
billion in economic aid and $82 billion in war costs for the
current fiscal year.  Over the next six months, U.S. troops will switch to
training, advising and assisting Afghan forces. “It will be a
historic moment and another step toward full Afghan
sovereignty,” Obama said.  Karzai said the U.S. has agreed to “the complete return of
detention centers and detainees to Afghan sovereignty” to take
place soon after he returns to Kabul.  Immunity Condition  While Pentagon officials have proposed keeping some troops
in Afghanistan for counterterrorism and training,  Ben Rhodes , a
deputy national security adviser to Obama, said this week that
the U.S. has the option of removing all its forces if
differences between the two countries aren’t resolved.  All U.S. troops were withdrawn from  Iraq  at the end of 2011
because of the failure to sign an agreement that would have
granted American forces immunity from prosecution under Iraqi
law.  Karzai said he’ll be better able to accommodate U.S.
conditions now that major Afghan concerns about sovereignty,
detentions and a continued international force presence in
villages have been resolved.  “I can go to the Afghan people and argue for immunity for
U.S. troops in Afghanistan in a way that Afghan sovereignty will
not be compromised, in a way that Afghan law will not be
compromised,” he said.  Karzai Gratitude  In a speech last night at  Georgetown University  in
Washington, Karzai thanked the U.S. government and “American
taxpayers” for the investment in Afghan security and
development over the past 11 years.  Acknowledging that the “cost has been immense” in money
and lives lost by Americans and Afghans, Karzai said “it was
for a great cause,” to defeat al-Qaeda and make the world a
safer place.  Asked by a student from the campus veterans association who
had twice served in Afghanistan what Karzai would say to the
families of U.S. troops who perished there, the Afghan president
said “the  United States  came to Afghanistan for the security of
the United States and by extension, the rest of the world.”  Karzai listed the many advances made in Afghans’ quality of
life -- including education, women’s rights and health care --
since the Taliban was ousted, and pushed back against negative
international press coverage of the situation in his country.  Different Perspective  “If I watched television in the United States or in  Europe 
and then I judged Afghanistan from that perspective, it would be
a disaster,” he said. He said that anyone in Afghanistan knows
from “the traffic jams,” the “ringing telephones” and the
“hustle and bustle of life” that there have been vast
improvements in the economy and quality of life.  In an interview with Bloomberg Television’s “Political
Capital with  Al Hunt ” airing this weekend, former Secretary of
State  Madeleine Albright  said that no matter what decision is
made about residual troop levels after U.S. combat forces are
withdrawn, the White House is likely to support the government
in Kabul with “nonmilitary means.”  “It’s my sense that we’re not just going to walk out of
Afghanistan, that there will be a variety of programs,”
Albright said. “Many people are concerned about what happens to
the women’s issues” to ensure that any future government
doesn’t roll back rights for women, who were badly oppressed
under the Taliban regime ousted by the U.S. in 2001.  Karzai told his audience at Georgetown that he was certain
that peace efforts will succeed between the government and
insurgents, and that  women’s rights  -- including to an education
and to work outside the home -- won’t be sacrificed even as
members of the Taliban are reintegrated into Afghan society.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  