-- Hollande Backs French Labor Deal Allowing Cuts to Wages
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2013-01-14T07:34:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-12/hollande-backs-french-labor-deal-allowing-cuts-to-wages.html
French business leaders and three
unions reached an accord that economists say marks the beginning
of President  Francois Hollande ’s effort to revamp the jobs
market while falling short of a labor revolution.  The agreement, reached after 10 p.m. in Paris on Jan. 11,
gives companies the right to reduce working time and salaries
when demand slows while also extending medical and unemployment
benefits and increasing taxes on short-term contracts. Labor
Minister Michel Sapin yesterday hailed the result as
“historic,” even as two national unions refused to back it.  Hollande called for the talks in an effort to stem a 19-
month-long increase in  jobless claims  and improve the
competitiveness of an economy that has barely grown in more than
a year. The negotiations were aimed at rendering the French
labor market, best known for its 35-hour workweek, more flexible
while still ensuring some  job security .  “The agreement is a step in the right direction, not a
revolution,” said Pierre-Olivier Beffy, chief economist at
Exane BNP Paribas in  London . “Companies are gaining a fair
amount of flexibility in downturns and that will be welcomed.”  After pushing through a 20 billion-euro ($26 billion)
payroll tax credit for businesses last year, the labor
negotiations are the second significant plank of Hollande’s plan
to improve French competitiveness in the wake of the euro area
sovereign debt crisis.  “We hope this agreement will be ratified by parliament as
soon as possible,”  Laurence Parisot , head of the Medef business
lobby, said in an e-mailed statement. “It contains measures
that will change the life of companies.”  Job Security  The FO and the CGT unions said the pact will encourage the
use of short-term contracts that leave workers without job
security.  “In this agreement, flexibility is for today, job security
is for tomorrow,” Jean-Claude Mailly, head of the FO union,
said yesterday on  France  3 television. “There are some things
in there that are really not acceptable.”  Employers have increasingly used short-term contracts in
recent years, leading to a two-tier labor market.  Of the 21 million work contracts signed each year, only 3
million are permanent and offer employees powerful legal and
financial tools when faced with the loss of their jobs.  Fourteen million of the contracts are for less than a
month, according to  Louis Gallois , former head of Airbus SAS
parent European Aeronautic Defence and Space Co., who was asked
by Hollande to write a report on French competitiveness.  The accord is a partial attempt to narrow the difference
between short-term and permanent contracts in France.  Rare Compromise  The agreement marks an unusual conciliation in labor
discussions in France, Michel Martinez, an economist at  Societe
Generale  in Paris, said today.  “French social partners surprised on the upside,” he said.
“Such a compromise is rare in France and this merits praise.
While this is a step in the right direction, further reform is
required to boost the French economy’s competitiveness.”  The European Commission, the  International Monetary Fund 
have called on France to do more to bolster its competitiveness
as  Germany  did almost a decade ago and countries like  Spain  have
begun to do more recently. The Commission is scheduled to give a
fresh assessment of French economic policy on Feb. 22.  The Hollande government is under pressure to revamp
 Europe ’s  second-largest economy  as a worsening climate has
resulted in thousands of job cuts at companies from carmaker PSA
Peugeot Citroen and  Air France-KLM  to drugmaker Sanofi.  Not Germany  Sapin said on BFM television that he intends to stick
closely to the agreement when preparing a law for the National
Assembly to consider and dismissed concern that the absence of
two unions would cause trouble for the government.  “Those two unions were there at the beginning of the talks
and they stayed until the end, they made a significant
contribution,” Sapin said. “The agreement shows that yes, we
can reform ourselves without conflict. You’ll see that this will
change the image of France abroad.”  The French Opposition said the accord is far short of the
attempt by Germany’s last Social Democrat leader,  Gerhard Schroeder , to make his country’s labor market more competitive.
Schroeder stood up to his own party and gambled his political
career a decade ago, cutting welfare and rolling back
safeguards for workers, an economic bet that paid off.  “Let’s not exaggerate,” French opposition lawmaker Jean- Francois Cope said on Europe 1 radio. “This introduces
flexibility on one side and security on the other. But it’s very
far from what Germany did. It is good news, but stay calm,
there’s a lot more to do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  