-- Hostess Names Flowers as Lead Bidder for Bread Business
-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2013-01-12T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-12/hostess-says-flowers-is-lead-bidder-for-majority-of-assets-1-.html
Hostess Brands Inc., the bankrupt
maker of Wonder bread and Twinkies, said  Flowers Foods Inc. (FLO)  is
the lead bidder for most of the assets of its bread-baking
operations.  “We are pleased with the Flowers offers and look forward
to a robust auction process that will allow these iconic brands
to continue and to maximize value for all of the company’s
stakeholders,” Hostess Chief Executive Officer Gregory F. Rayburn said yesterday in a statement.  The proposed accord with Flowers Foods includes the
purchase of the Wonder, Butternut, Home Pride, Merita and
Nature’s Pride brands, 20 bakeries, 38 depots and other assets
for $355 million, which may be increased to $360 million if
certain license rights are included in the sale. The remaining
bread brands, as well as its snack cake business, will be sold
separately, according to the statement.  Flowers Foods, based in Thomasville,  Georgia , also agreed
to serve as the lead, or stalking-horse, bidder for the
company’s Beefsteak bread brand for $30 million. The accord
doesn’t include facilities or additional assets, according to
the statement.  “This agreement is consistent with Flowers Foods’ long-
term growth objectives to reach significantly more of the  U.S.
population  with its fresh breads, buns and rolls,”  George Deese, the company’s chief executive officer, said in a
statement.  Flowers Foods, established in 1919, produces and markets
packaged bakery foods for its retail and food-service customers.
The company’s top brands are Nature’s Own and Tastykake.  $1 Billion  The Hostess liquidation sales may generate about $1
billion, financial adviser Joshua Scherer of Perella Weinberg
Partners LP said at a court hearing in November. The bidding
process conducted by Perella involved contact with 169 possible
purchasers, 87 of which signed confidentially agreements, the
company said in the statement.  Hostess lawyers said at a December court hearing that the
company’s cake brands had drawn multiple bidders. Potential
buyers separately were interested in other Hostess products or
manufacturing plants, said Heather Lennox, an attorney for the
Irving, Texas-based baker.  Potential Bidders  “We also continue to negotiate with parties interested in
purchasing our snack cake business and remaining bread brands
and expect to select additional stalking horse bidders as soon
as reasonably practicable,” Rayburn said in yesterday’s
statement.  A hearing to consider approval of bidding procedures is set
for Jan. 25. Hostess has requested a Feb. 28 auction date and a
March 5 court hearing to authorize the sale to the highest or
otherwise best bidders. The Flowers proposals are subject to
court approval.  The 82-year-old maker of Hostess CupCakes, Ding Dongs and
Ho Hos began to wind down operations in November after failing
to reach an agreement with its striking bakers’ union on
concessions to help it emerge from its second bankruptcy.
Changes in American diets led to years of declining sales at
Hostess, while ingredient costs and labor expenses climbed.  A standoff with striking union workers triggered
liquidation auctions of Hostess’s brands, recipes, plants and
other assets. The Bakery Confectionery Tobacco Workers and Grain
Millers International Union went on strike Nov. 9 after U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Robert Drain in White, Plains,  New York ,
imposed contract concessions opposed by more than 90 percent of
the union’s members. The union represents more than 5,000
Hostess workers.  Hostess emerged from an earlier bankruptcy in 2009 under
the control of buyout firm Ripplewood Holdings LLC and lenders.
The company, previously known as Interstate Bakeries Corp.,
changed its name to Hostess Brands in October of that year.
Hostess entered its bankruptcy again in January 2012.  The case is In re Hostess Brands Inc., 12-22052,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York ( White Plains ).
The prior bankruptcy was In re Interstate Bakeries Corp.,
04-45814, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Western District of  Missouri 
( Kansas City ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  