-- Reading Rallies Past West Brom in Premier League; Chelsea Wins
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-01-12T17:37:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-12/reading-rallies-past-west-brom-in-premier-league-chelsea-wins.html
A late rally saw Reading beat West
Brom 3-2 in English soccer’s Premier League, while Chelsea
routed Stoke 4-0 to move into third place.  Jimmy Kebe, Adam Le Fondre and Pavel Pogrebnyak scored in
the final eight minutes to give Reading a home win. The comeback
prevented the Royals from dropping below Queens Park Rangers,
which drew 0-0 with Tottenham, into last place.  “We’re absolutely delighted,” Reading manager Brian
McDermott told Sky Sports. “You have to believe in the players.
They got us over the line here today.”  Sunderland beat West Ham 3-0, Southampton won 1-0 at Aston
Villa and Fulham draw 1-1 with Wigan, while the Everton-Swansea
and Norwich-Newcastle games finished goalless.  Reading won for the second time in three games to improve
to 16 points, two more than QPR at the bottom of the standings.  Romelu Lukaku scored once in each half to give West Brom a
2-0 lead. Kebe scored with a header in the 82nd minute and Le
Fondre tied the score in the 88th with a penalty kick after Kebe
was fouled by Jonas Olsson.  Pogrebnyak completed the comeback in the final minute with
a shot from about six yards out past goalkeeper Ben Foster.  Chelsea had unlikely help from Jonathan Walters in ending
Stoke’s 17-game home unbeaten run in the league.  The Blues took the lead just before halftime when the Stoke
defender headed the ball into his own goal as he tried to clear.
He did the same again in the 62nd minute to make it 2-0.  Frank Lampard scored with a penalty kick three minutes
later and Eden Hazard closed the scoring for the Blues in the
73rd minute.  Missed Penalty  Walters sealed a miserable day in the final minute as he
blasted a penalty kick over the crossbar.  Chelsea has 41 points, one more than Tottenham, which was
unable to beat QPR and former manager Harry Redknapp. The draw
briefly moved QPR out of last place, but the west  London  club
dropped back down after Reading’s comeback.  Rickie Lambert scored a penalty in the 34th minute to give
Southampton its second away win of the season. The loss dropped
Aston Villa into the three relegation spots at the bottom of the
standings on goal difference below Wigan.  Sebastian Larsson, Adam Johnson and James McLean scored as
Sunderland beat West Ham, while Franco Di Santo’s 71st minute
goal gave Wigan the draw at Fulham, which got a first-half score
from Giorgos Karagounis.  Newcastle is winless in 11 away games this season after
finishing 0-0 at Norwich, while Everton was held without a score
for the first time in 19 league matches in its goalless home
draw against Swansea.  Tomorrow’s fixtures see league leader Manchester United
hosts Liverpool while Manchester City visits Arsenal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 