-- Treasuries Rise Before Fed Purchases as Selloff Brings Buyers
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-01-12T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-12/treasuries-rise-before-fed-purchases-as-selloff-brings-buyers.html
Treasury 30-year bonds rose, paring
the previous week’s steepest fall since September, as higher
yields, concern over the debt ceiling and the prospect of more
central-bank debt purchases attracted investors.  Treasury benchmark  10-year note yields  at almost the
highest level since May lured buyers back to the market as the
Federal Reserve prepared to purchase as much as $9.75 billion in
longer-dated debt next week, part of its third round of bond
purchases under the quantitative-easing strategy.  “We still look forward to a divisive and vigorous debate
over the next round of fiscal matters, and the Fed is still
buying aggressively,” said Christopher Sullivan, who oversees
$2.1 billion as chief investment officer at United Nations
Federal Credit Union in New York. “We’ve had a bit of a selloff
with some optimism returning to the market, but the concerns
haven’t completely dissipated.”  The yield on the 30-year bond fell five basis points, or
0.05 percentage point, to 3.05 percent in New York this week
after touching 3.12 percent, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices. The price of the 2.75 percent note due in November 2042
rose 29/32, or $9.06 per $1,000 face value, to 94 5/32.  The 10-year  yield  fell three basis points to 1.87 percent
in New York time after climbing to 1.93 percent.  Least Expensive  Yields on the 10-year note last week reached 1.97 percent,
the highest level since April 26, before dropping after the
Labor Department released a report showing the U.S.  unemployment
rate  was unchanged at 7.8 percent in December.  Yields also declined this week as demand for Italian bonds
at an auction indicated the region’s sovereign-debt crisis is
easing as European Central Bank President Mario Draghi said the
euro-area economy will slowly return to health in 2013.  U.S. government securities traded close to the least
expensive levels in eight months. The 10-year term premium, a
model created by economists at the Fed that includes
expectations for interest rates, growth and inflation, touched
negative 0.69 percent. It reached negative 0.68 percent on Jan.
3, the least costly since May.  A negative reading indicates investors are willing to
accept yields below what’s considered fair value. The average
last year was negative 0.77 percent.  Debt Auctions  U.S. government debt rose after the Treasury Department
sold $66 billion in notes and bonds this week. It sold $13
billion of 30-year debt at a yield of 3.07 percent, $21 billion
of 10-year debt at a yield of 1.863 percent and $32 billion of
three-year notes at a yield of 0.385 percent.  There isn’t another note, bond or inflation-linked debt
auction until Jan. 24, when the Treasury is scheduled to sell
10-year Treasury Inflation Protected Securities.  The Fed’s  preferred measure  of inflation expectations, the
five-year, five-year forward break-even rate, was 2.82 percent
on Jan. 8, compared with a 2012 average of 2.6 percent. The
gauge projects the expected pace of consumer price increases
from 2018 to 2023.  “The Fed’s going to be supportive of the market,” said
Mario De Rose, a fixed-income strategist in St. Louis at Edward
Jones & Co. “At this point the hawks aren’t going to have much
say in policy.”  The Federal Open Market Committee for the first time in
December linked the outlook for its main interest rate to
unemployment and inflation targets. The central bank said the
rate would stay close to zero “at least as long” as
unemployment remains above 6.5 percent and inflation projections
are for no more than 2.5 percent.  Unemployment, Inflation  The unemployment rate, which has been above 7 percent since
December 2008, held at 7.8 percent in November. In the 12 months
ended in November, consumer prices rose 1.8 percent, the Labor
Department reported in December.  The U.S. reached its debt ceiling Dec. 31 and, without an
extension of the spending limit, the Treasury will exhaust
measures to finance the government as early as mid-February,
according to the Congressional Budget Office. Moody’s Investors
Service warned Jan. 2 that further measures to control the
deficit were needed to support the nation’s top Aaa rating.  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators reversed
from a net-long position to a  net-short position  in 30-year bond
futures in the week ending Jan. 8, according to U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission data. Speculative short positions, or
bets prices will fall, outnumbered long positions by 7,449
contracts on the Chicago Board of Trade.  Last week, traders
were net-long 435 contracts.  Treasuries handed investors a loss of 0.6 percent this year
through Jan. 10, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes. German bonds dropped 1.6 percent and  Japan ’s fell 0.1
percent, the data show.  “As we get closer to 2 percent, investors will jump back
into the market,” said Sean Murphy, a trader at Societe
Generale SA in New York, one of the 21 primary dealers that
trade with the Fed. “But, until then, we should see more
volatility than people think.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  