-- Treasury, Fed Oppose Using Platinum Coin to Avoid Debt Ceiling
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2013-01-13T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-12/treasury-fed-oppose-using-platinum-coin-to-avoid-debt-limit-1-.html
The U.S. Treasury Department and
 Federal Reserve  oppose the idea of minting platinum coins as a
way to avoid the U.S. debt ceiling, according to a statement
from Treasury spokesman  Anthony Coley .  “Neither the Treasury Department nor the Federal Reserve
believes that the law can or should be used to facilitate the
production of platinum coins for the purpose of avoiding an
increase in the debt limit,” Coley said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday.  Amid Republican opposition to raising the debt ceiling
without spending cuts, some Democrats including House Democratic
leader  Nancy Pelosi  have proposed invoking the Constitution’s
14th amendment and minting a platinum coin with a face value of
$1 trillion to pay government bills.  The U.S. reached its statutory borrowing limit Dec. 31 and
the Treasury Department is using what it calls “extraordinary”
measures to finance the government. The  Congressional Budget
Office  estimates those steps will be exhausted by mid-February.  “There are only two options to deal with the debt limit:
Congress can pay its bills or it can fail to act and put the
nation into default,” according to a statement issued by the
White House yesterday.  “When congressional Republicans played politics with this
issue last time, putting us at the edge of default, it was a
blow to our economic recovery, causing our nation’s credit
rating to be downgraded,” the e-mailed White House statement
says. “The president and the American people won’t tolerate
congressional Republicans holding the American economy hostage
again simply so they can force disastrous cuts to Medicare and
other programs the middle class depend on while protecting the
wealthy. Congress needs to do its job.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ann Hughey at 
 ahughey@bloomberg.net  