-- Saudi Sovereign Wealth Fund Buys Stake in Utility ACWA Power
-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i   a n d   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2013-01-13T09:41:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-12/saudi-sovereign-wealth-fund-acquires-stake-in-utility-acwa-power.html
Saudi Arabian sovereign wealth fund
Sanabil and the nation’s pension agency acquired 19 percent of
ACWA Power International, a company that invests in power and
water projects in the kingdom and regionally.  Riyadh-based ACWA issued 89.5 million new shares to Sanabil
and the Saudi Public Pension Agency, each of which will have a
seat on ACWA’s board of directors, the company said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  advised ACWA on the
transaction, which will give Sanabil and the pension agency
stakes of 13.7 percent and 5.7 percent, respectively. No
financial details were given in the statement.  “ACWA Power has been growing rapidly and has started to
expand beyond its borders in  Saudi Arabia ,” Klaus Froehlich,
Morgan Stanley’s head of  investment banking  for the  Middle East 
and North  Africa , said by phone today. “This transaction will
allow the company to continue its growth and further compete for
contracts in Saudi Arabia which are mostly government related.”  Established in 2008, ACWA operates five power plants in
Saudi Arabia, and was qualified to tender for projects in
countries including Kuwait,  Egypt  and  Turkey , according to its
 website . The company, with more than $17 billion of investments,
has power generation capacity of 13,000 megawatts and produces
2.37 million cubic meters a day of desalinated water.  $109 Billion Investment  Saudi Arabia is seeking $109 billion of investment to build
a solar industry, which may produce a third of its power by
2032, compared with almost none now, according to King Abdullah
City for Atomic and  Renewable Energy . Saudi Arabia’s 3 megawatts
of solar capacity put it behind Egypt, Morocco, Tunisia,  Algeria 
and the United Arab Emirates, according to Bloomberg New Energy
Finance. The government is targeting 41,000 megawatts of solar
capacity within two decades, freeing as much as 523,000 barrels
of oil a day for export, according to the agency.  ACWA Power plans to add solar assets at home and
electricity plants abroad through building new facilities or
acquiring existing ones to triple production capacity to 38,000
megawatts by 2017, equal to almost half Saudi Arabia’s planned
total capacity that year. Ten percent of ACWA’s future output
will be from clean-energy sources in the Middle East and Africa,
Chief Executive Officer Paddy Padmanathan said in an interview
in October. The company’s projects are funded by a mix of equity
capital and project-finance loans, he said.  Solar Plants  ACWA owns and operates a 60-megawatt plant in  Bulgaria  and
is developing two concentrated solar  power plants  in Morocco and
 South Africa , Padmanathan said. In Jordan, it has two 1.5-
megawatt wind farms and a biomass plant. ACWA is among 20 groups
bidding to build and operate plants in Mecca that will produce
385 gigawatt-hours of power a year.  Sanabil’s investment is “consistent with its strategy to
invest in the growth of Saudi private companies that contribute
to the local economy,” Ibrahim bin Muhammed Alromaih, the chief
executive officer, said in yesterday’s statement.  Sanabil, which was established in 2009 and is owned by the
government through the Public Investment Fund, also bought a
stake in a local health investment fund, Alromaih told the
Eqtisadiah daily yesterday. It also wants to buy stakes in local
mortgage lending firms and chemical makers, he said. The fund
has 20 billion riyals ($5.3 billion) and also plans to invest
abroad in private equity funds and securities, he said.  Saudi Arabia’s $727 billion economy grew 6.8 percent in
2012, the  Finance Ministry  said in its budget statement on Dec.
29. That beat the 5.6 percent median estimate of 16 analysts
compiled by Bloomberg. The government is investing more than
$500 billion on projects in infrastructure and industry.  “This is the first investment for Sanabil and it is
expected to be more active in the future,” Froehlich said.
“It’s likely to remain focused mainly on Saudi Arabia
supporting the industrial expansion that is taking place
there.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net ;
Wael Mahdi in Manama at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  