-- Sex Offenders Win Bid to Halt California Law on Web Use
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-01-12T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-12/sex-offenders-win-bid-to-halt-law-claimed-to-infringe-speech-1-.html
Two  California  sex offenders and the
 American Civil Liberties Union  won a court ruling keeping on
hold state rules requiring registered offenders to disclose
their online accounts and screen names so they can be tracked.  U.S. District Judge Thelton Henderson in  San Francisco 
yesterday ruled that, in light of constitutional free-speech
rights, the law’s Internet registration requirements aren’t
narrowly tailored enough to the state’s goal of combating sexual
exploitation.  “The court does not lightly take the step of enjoining a
state statute, even on a preliminary basis,” Henderson wrote.
“However, just as the court is mindful that a strong majority
of California voters approved Proposition 35 and that the
government has a legitimate interest in protecting individuals
from online sex offenses and human trafficking, it is equally
mindful that anonymity is a shield from the tyranny of the
majority, and that plaintiffs enjoy no lesser right to anonymous
speech simply because they are unpopular.”  Two unidentified offenders and the civil rights group sued
to block portions of an anti-human trafficking measure known as
Proposition 35 that was approved by more than 80 percent of
California voters in November.  “Our office is reviewing the decision,” Nick Pacilio, a
spokesman for California Attorney General  Kamala Harris , said in
an e-mail.  Constitutional ‘Misinterpretation’  Backed by former  Facebook Inc. (FB)  executive  Chris Kelly , the
measure was set to take effect next year. Henderson temporarily
put the law on hold after the ACLU sued. The group asked the
judge to keep an injunction in place until the case is resolved.  “We are disappointed with this decision, but we are
confident that in due time this common sense provision will be
upheld by the courts,” Kelly said in a statement. “The claims
made by the ACLU have been previously litigated, and appellate
courts have rejected their misinterpretation of the
Constitution.”  The law increases prison terms for sex offenders and adds
new reporting requirements for them. Registered sex offenders in
California would be required under the law to report to  law
enforcement  all Internet identifiers and online service
providers they use. Registrants also would have to provide in
writing any changes or additions to their Internet accounts and
screen names.  Speech Rights  California officials said the law would allow them to track
sex offenders and prevent them from preying on children online.
ACLU attorneys claim the reporting requirements infringe on the
constitutional right to anonymous online speech for sex
offenders, who they argue have the same First Amendment rights
as anyone.  The new rules let police investigate offenders even if
there’s no crime committed, ACLU attorneys told Henderson at a
Dec. 16 hearing. They said the law is so broad that law
enforcement officers can snoop into online communications and
require offenders to turn over login information for bank
accounts.  Even before the law passed, the California  Justice
Department ’s registration form for convicted sex offenders
included fields to report e-mail addresses and screen names and
social networks used.  Police are allowed to access the computer system that
stores the information, and Internet identifying information is
currently only available to the Justice Department.  The case is Doe v. Harris, 12-05713, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Francisco).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net ;
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  