-- Stanford Receiver Seeks Approval for 1 Percent Interim Payout
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2013-01-12T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-12/stanford-receiver-plans-1-percent-interim-investor-payout-1-.html
Investors swindled by convicted
financier R. Allen Stanford may receive an interim distribution
payment worth a penny on the dollar of their losses, Stanford’s
U.S. receiver said in a court filing.  Ralph Janvey, the court-appointed receiver, asked a judge’s
permission to pay more than 17,000 investors an initial
distribution of $55 million, according to a filing yesterday in
federal court in  Dallas .  The sum represents about 1 percent of the $5.1 billion
investors lost on bogus certificates of deposit at Antigua-based
Stanford International Bank Ltd., according to Janvey’s filing.  “The receiver anticipates that future distributions will
be made using amounts from the estate’s retained funds and
additional amounts ultimately recovered through litigation,
class action settlements and other asset recovery efforts,”
Kevin Sadler, Janvey’s lead lawyer, said in the filing.  Stanford, 62, was convicted in March of stealing more than
$2 billion from depositors at his Caribbean bank to finance a
lavish personal lifestyle of private jets, yachts and mansions.
Stanford is serving a 110-year federal prison sentence in
 Florida  as he appeals his conviction and sentence.  Investors initially claimed more than $7 billion in losses
from Stanford’s Ponzi scheme, which paid early investors above-
market returns with funds taken from later investors. Janvey
said after reconciling 30,289 claims submitted to his Dallas-
based receivership, he found many duplicates and discovered that
most investors were trying to recover “fictitious interest”
listed on their statements when the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission seized Stanford’s businesses on suspicion of fraud in
February 2009.  ‘Fictitious Interest’  “Such balances were inflated by fictitious interest that
had not yet been paid to them,” Sadler said in the filing.  Janvey calculated investors’ true losses through what he
called a “net loss approach, which is calculated on a ‘money
in, money out’ basis –- i.e., money paid into the scheme minus
any money returned to the investor,” Sadler said. “Under the
net loss approach, any fictitious, unpaid interest that has
accrued on SIB CDs is not recognized.”  Janvey didn’t disclose in yesterday’s filing how much he
has recovered for the estate or how much that recovery has cost.  In a June court filing, Janvey said total cash inflow for
the estate was $220.1 million as of May 31. Of that recovery,
$56.5 million was paid in fees and expenses to the receiver and
his team of lawyers and forensic professionals, and another
$51.9 million was paid in other expenses associated with winding
down Stanford’s extensive business holdings. Janvey had total
unrestricted cash on hand of $94.5 million as of May 31.  ‘One Penny’  “To say the recovery of one penny on the dollar is
disappointing is a dramatic overstatement,” Angela Shaw,
founder of the Stanford Victims Coalition, said in an e-mailed
statement. “The reality that $2 have been spent to recover each
dollar that will be distributed is astonishing, and we can only
hope this is the first step in recovering more of our savings
rather than the final chapter of an inconceivable four-year
nightmare.”  Former Stanford employees and executives, as well as the
Stanford investors and former suppliers who are being sued by
the receiver in fraudulent-transfer actions, are excluded from
the initial distribution plan, Janvey said. Secured creditors
will also not receive payment in the interim distribution plan,
he said.  U.S. District Judge David Godbey, who is overseeing
consolidated litigation tied to Stanford’s business dealings,
must still approve the interim distribution plan. If Godbey
agrees, Janvey said payment could begin within 90 days of that
approval.  John Nester , a spokesman for the SEC, declined to comment
on Janvey’s filing.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  Texas  (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank, 09-cv-298, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Texas (Dallas).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net :
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  