-- U.S. Stocks Rise for 2nd Week Amid Earnings, China Data
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2013-01-14T15:26:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-12/u-s-stocks-rise-for-2nd-week-amid-earnings-china-data.html
(Corrects name of firm in 13th paragraph to Lazard Capital
Markets LLC in story published Jan. 12)  U.S. stocks  rose for a second week,
as the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed to the highest level
in five years, amid optimism about fourth-quarter corporate
earnings and better-than-estimated data on Chinese exports.  American Express Co. rallied 2.7 percent for the week after
the credit-card issuer said it will eliminate 5,400 jobs this
year.  Seagate Technology Plc (STX)  and  Celgene Corp. (CELG)  increased at
least 5.8 percent after their forecasts exceeded analysts’
projections. Bank of America Corp. slid 4 percent for the
biggest drop in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average . Boeing Co.
lost 3.3 percent after a 787 Dreamliner operated by Japan
Airlines Co. caught fire on the ground in  Boston .  The S&P 500 advanced 0.4 percent to 1,472.05 for the week.
The benchmark equity gauge closed at 1,472.12 on Jan. 10, the
highest level since December 2007. The Dow added 53.22 points,
or 0.4 percent, to 13,488.43. The Chicago Board Options Exchange
Volatility Index, known as the VIX, fell 3.4 percent to 13.36,
the lowest level since June 2007.  “This week was a bit of an inhale as earnings season gets
started,” Tim Leach, who manages $111 billion as the San
Francisco-based chief investment officer of U.S. Bank Wealth
Management, said by telephone. “From a global point of view,
there’s a building thesis that the significant slowdown in  China 
is at the end and that China is going to be rebuilding some
momentum from here.”  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  unofficially started the earnings season on Jan.
8 as the first company in the Dow to report results. Of the 27
 S&P 500  companies that have  posted earnings , 81 percent exceeded
analysts’ estimates and 67 percent reported a profit increase,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Fourth-quarter earnings
at S&P 500 companies grew 2.5 percent, according to analysts’
estimates. That would be the second-slowest quarterly growth
since 2009, the data show.  China Exports  Equities also advanced for the week as a report showed
China’s overseas sales rose 14.1 percent in December from a year
earlier, almost triple the 5 percent gain predicted. A separate
report on the final day showed China’s inflation accelerated
more than forecast to a seven-month high, a pickup that may
limit room for easing to support an economic recovery.  The  S&P 500 (SPX)  posted the biggest gain in more than a year
during the previous week as lawmakers passed a bill averting
most of the more than $600 billion in spending cuts and tax
increases, known as the fiscal cliff, and Labor Department
figures showed payrolls rose last month. The benchmark index has
rallied 8.8 percent from its November low as the  Federal Reserve 
expanded its bond purchase program to boost the economy and
optimism grew that Congress would reach a budget agreement.  Biggest Gains  Hewlett-Packard Co., the largest maker of personal-
computers and printers, surged 6.7 percent to $16.16 for the
 biggest gain  in the Dow this week. Merck & Co. climbed 3 percent
to $43.23 as health-care companies advanced the most out of  10
S&P 500 (SPXL1)  groups.  American Express rallied 2.7 percent to $61.24. The biggest
U.S. credit-card issuer by purchases said it will eliminate
jobs, mostly in travel services, as consumers and businesses
rely more on digital technology for bookings.  New York-based AmEx also reported preliminary results ahead
of its formal earnings announcement scheduled for Jan. 17. It
posted a 47 percent drop in fourth-quarter profit and recorded
charges totaling $594 million, including costs tied to severance
and changes in how the firm estimates future redemptions of
credit-card rewards.  Seagate, Celgene  Seagate Technology increased 5.9 percent to $33.29. Sales
rose to at least $3.6 billion in the fiscal second quarter,
exceeding an earlier forecast for $3.5 billion as the Dublin-
based company maintained share in the computer hard-drive
market.  Celgene rallied 17 percent to $96.30, a record high. The
world’s fourth-largest biotechnology company  forecast  adjusted
earnings this year will be as much as $5.60 a share, beating the
average analyst estimate by 2 cents.  Analysts at Royal Bank of  Canada  and Piper Jaffray Cos.
lifted their rating on Celgene to outperform and overweight,
respectively. Lazard Capital Markets LLC raised its price target
to $123 a share from $90.  Best Buy Co. climbed 17 percent, the most since March 2009,
to $14.21. Sales stabilized in the U.S. during the holiday
season after three quarters of declines, bolstering founder
Richard Schulze’s bid to take over the consumer-electronics
retailer.  Supermarket Chains  Supervalu Inc. jumped 20 percent to $3.53. A Cerberus
Capital Management LP-led investor group agreed to buy five of
its chains in a deal valued at about $3.3 billion. Cerberus also
will lead a group to conduct a tender offer to buy as much as 30
percent of Supervalu’s common stock for $4 a share in cash.  Herbalife Ltd. added 8.2 percent to $40.02.  Daniel Loeb ’s
Third Point LLC took an 8.2 percent stake in Herbalife, becoming
the latest firm to bet against hedge fund manager  Bill Ackman ,
who has accused the direct seller of nutrition shakes of being a
pyramid scheme. Chief Executive Officer  Michael Johnson  said
Ackman’s statements were “gross mischaracterizations” of the
company’s model as executives mounted a point-by-point defense
for investors.  Alcoa slumped 3.5 percent to $8.94 even as the largest U.S.
aluminum producer reported fourth-quarter sales that exceeded
 analysts’ estimates  after the company sold the commodity at a
higher-than-expected average price.  Bank Earnings  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  fell 0.9 percent to $35.10 on the final
day of the week, paring its weekly gain to 0.5 percent, as
fourth-quarter results showed margins narrowed and mortgage
applications waned. The narrower margins have come as the bank
takes a bigger share of mortgage and commercial markets while
betting on an economic turnaround.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Bank of
America, Citigroup Inc. and Morgan Stanley are among the largest
U.S. banks scheduled to report earnings next week. Earnings for
financial companies in the S&P 500 grew 16 percent in the
fourth-quarter, the second-biggest increase only behind
telephone companies’ profits, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Bank of America lost 4 percent to $11.63 for the week. The
lender was downgraded to neutral from outperform at Credit
Suisse on valuation. The stock “appears to be discounting
significantly faster improvements in efficiency than we would be
expecting,” analyst  Moshe Orenbuch  wrote in a note. The shares
surged 109 percent last year.  Boeing declined 3.3 percent to $75.16. U.S. regulators said
they will perform a far-reaching review of the design,
manufacturing and assembly of the 787 Dreamliner after the Jan.
7 fire and several incidents last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in  New York  at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  