-- Venezuela’s Chavez Not in Coma and Recovering, Brother Says
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t   a n d   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2013-01-13T01:59:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-12/venezuela-s-chavez-not-in-coma-and-recovering-brother-says.html
Venezuela ’s ailing President  Hugo Chavez  is not in a coma as reported by social media sites and
continues to recover from cancer surgery a month ago in Cuba,
his brother said.  Adan Chavez, who is also governor of Barinas state, denied
that the president was in a coma and that his family was
considering disconnecting life-support machines, according to a
statement published on the Barinas state government’s website.  “We know this is part of a dirty war by the necrophiliac
opposition in this country,” Adan said, according to the
statement dated Jan. 11. Governor Chavez, the oldest brother of
the president, returned from Cuba yesterday.  Tens of thousands of Venezuelans took a symbolic oath of
loyalty to Chavez and the “right to build socialism in our
country” in Caracas on Jan. 10, the date the ailing leader was
supposed to be sworn in for a new six-year term. The Vice
President’s office is responsible for providing updates on
Chavez’s health, the governor said in the statement. Vice
President  Nicolas Maduro  traveled to  Havana  yesterday and met
with Cuban President  Raul Castro .  Maduro visited Chavez today and handed him a report
detailing rallies by Venezuelans in support of his new term in
government, Information Minister Ernesto Villegas wrote today on
his Twitter account.  The government last provided an update on Chavez’s health
on Jan. 7 when Villegas said Chavez’s condition is stable after
the government reported he had trouble breathing due to a lung
infection.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net ;
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  