-- Yen Drops Amid Stimulus Bets in Longest Slump Since 1989
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-01-12T05:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-12/yen-drops-amid-stimulus-bets-in-longest-slump-since-1989.html
The yen slid versus the dollar in
its longest weekly losing streak in almost a quarter-century on
speculation Japanese policy makers were preparing measures to
stimulate the economy that may debase the currency.  The euro rose against all of its 16 most-traded peers as
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said the region’s
economy should gradually recover.  South Africa ’s rand tumbled as
 Fitch Ratings  downgraded the nation. The yen touched a 30-month
low versus the dollar after  Japan ’s government said it will
spend 10.3 trillion yen ($116 billion) in new stimulus efforts.
The  Bank of Japan (8301)  meets Jan. 21-22.  “The overall trend remains a downward one for the Japanese
currency,”  Joe Manimbo , a market analyst in  Washington  at
Western Union Business Solutions, a unit of Western Union Co.,
said in a telephone interview. “The key to the outlook for the
yen is going to be whether or not the Bank of Japan takes that
aggressive stance that the market anticipates, and to see how
successful the government is at stimulating.”  The yen lost 1.2 percent to 89.18 per dollar in  New York 
trading this week and reached 89.45, the weakest level since
June 28, 2010. It was the currency’s ninth weekly loss, the
longest stretch since 10 weeks ended in February 1989. The
Japanese currency tumbled 3.3 percent to 119.01 per euro in its
fifth weekly loss and touched 119.35, the least since May 2011.  The euro gained 2.1 percent, the most since the five days
ended Sept. 14, to $1.3343.  Currency Bets  Futures traders decreased their bets that the yen will
decline against the U.S. dollar for a fourth-straight week,
figures from the Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading
Commission show. The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge
funds  and other large speculators on a decline in the yen
compared with those on a gain -- so-called net shorts -- was
74,096 on Jan. 8, versus net shorts of 80,517 a week earlier.  Large speculators reversed their wagers that the euro will
advance against the greenback after switching to that position a
week earlier for the first time since August 2011. There were
8,035 net shorts on the euro on Jan. 8, versus net longs of
5,126 a week earlier.  Borrowing in yen and investing in the 10 currencies that
make up the Bloomberg-JPMorgan Chase & Co. Asia Dollar Index
returned an annualized 77 percent in the three months through
Jan. 10. That beat so-called carry trades funded in U.S. dollars
or the euro, which gained 7.8 percent and lost 4.3 percent, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  In carry trades, investors borrow where interest
rates are low to buy higher-yielding assets elsewhere.  Inflation Goal  The BOJ is set to adopt the 2 percent inflation target
advocated by Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, doubling its
existing goal of 1 percent, without setting a deadline for
achieving it, according to people familiar with discussions
within the central bank. They requested anonymity because the
talks are private.  “The BOJ are signing up to the government’s policy
stance,”  Jeremy Stretch , head of foreign-exchange strategy at
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in  London , said yesterday.
“For now, everyone is getting onto this train, and the question
now is how far the yen can weaken.”  The yen’s 8.9 percent drop over the past month was the
biggest among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar lost 0.7
percent, while the euro rose 2.2 percent.  Trade Deficit  The Dollar Index ended yesterday at 79.563, the lowest
since Dec. 20, after the  U.S. trade deficit  unexpectedly widened
in November. The gap swelled 15.8 percent to $48.7 billion, the
biggest since April, Commerce Department data showed. A
Bloomberg survey forecast a narrowing to $41.3 billion.  The euro reached the highest level against the greenback
since April yesterday, a day after the ECB kept its benchmark
 interest rate  at a record low of 0.75 percent and Draghi
forecast recovery later this year. The 17-nation currency
touched $1.3366.  “That’s great news, and that’s great news for the euro --
$1.35 is a reasonable level to look for,”  Sebastien Galy ,
senior foreign-exchange strategist at Societe Generale SA in New
York, said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Lunch
Money” with Sara Eisen.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will speak at the
 University of Michigan  on Jan. 14, and six other Fed officials
also are scheduled to give speeches next week. The U.S. central
bank is in its third round of bond purchases as it seeks to
drive down unemployment and spur economic growth.  Running Space  “In the wake of the less-dovish Draghi press conference
and probable dovish Fed-speak next week, the euro has a bit to
run,”  Richard Franulovich , a senior currency strategist at
Westpac Banking Corp. in New York, said yesterday in a telephone
interview.  The Australian and New Zealand dollars rose for a second
week as  China ’s imports gained 6 percent in December, the most
in six months, data showed on Jan. 10. Exports climbed 14
percent, the most since May. China is  Australia ’s biggest trade
partner and New Zealand’s second-largest export market.  The Aussie appreciated 0.5 percent to $1.0535, and the
kiwi, as New Zealand’s dollar is nicknamed, gained 0.6 percent
to 83.63 U.S. cents.  “Sentiment toward China has improved,” said  Adam Cole ,
global head of foreign-exchange strategy at Royal Bank of Canada
in London. “That’s helping the Asian currencies.”  South Africa’s rand slid versus all of its major peers
after Fitch cut the nation’s rating to BBB from BBB+, citing
slowing growth, a widening budget deficit and rising
unemployment. The currency lost 1.8 percent to 8.72 per dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  