-- Mariners’ Millwood, 5 Relievers Hurl 4th No-Hitter of Season
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-06-09T06:36:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-09/mariners-millwood-5-relievers-throw-4th-no-hitter-of-season.html
Kevin Millwood and five relievers of
the  Seattle Mariners  combined to pitch the fourth no-hitter of
the season in a 1-0 win over the Major League Baseball-leading
Los Angeles Dodgers.  “Those guys got all the tough outs,” said Millwood who
pitched six innings. “First six, it is what it is. I’ve seen a
lot of people do that. From seven, eight, nine -- those guys got
all those outs and that was special to see.”  Seattle’s third no-hitter in franchise history is the first
since Johan Santana of the  New York  Mets achieved the feat June
1 against the St Louis Cardinals. Jered Weaver of the Los
Angeles Angels threw a no-hitter May 2 and Chicago White Sox
righthander Philip Humber hurled a perfect game April 22, the
22nd in league history.  The last multi-pitched no-hitter was recorded June 11, 2003,
when the  Houston Astros  used six pitchers for a no-hit 8-0 win
over the  New York Yankees .  Millwood, who pitched a no-hitter for the Philadelphia
Phillies in a 1-0 win over San Francisco on April 27, 2003,
struck out six and walked one in 68 pitches before limping off
the mound after the sixth inning with a groin injury last night
at Safeco Field in Seattle.  ‘Block It Out’  When Millwood couldn’t return for the seventh inning, he
was relieved by Charlie Furbush who struck out one in 2/3 inning.
Stephen Pryor (1-0) got the win after walking two and striking
out one in a third of an inning.  Lucas Leutge and Brandon League pitched the eighth inning,
and Tom Wilhelmsen closed the game with a perfect ninth inning
for his third save.  “I just tried to block it out, stay within myself and
execute pitches,” Wilhelmsen said. “How tremendous was that,
man?”  Kyle Seager hit a one-run single in the seventh for the
Mariners’ only score off Scott Elbert (0-1), who gave up two
hits and one run while striking out two.  ‘Unbelievable’  “That was unbelievable. I’ve never been a part of anything
like that with that many guys coming in and keeping the no-
hitter intact,” Seager told reporters.  The Mariners (27-33) are third in the four-team American
League West, 7 ½ games behind the  Texas Rangers . The Dodgers,
with the best record in the league at 37-22 lead the  National
League West .  The Mariners’ previous no-hitters were thrown by Chris Bosio in a 2-0 game over Boston on April 22, 1993, and  Randy Johnson  in a 2-0 shutout against Detroit on June 2, 1990.  Roy Halladay  pitched the last perfect game in the National
League, a 1-0 win for the  Philadelphia Phillies  against the
 Florida Marlins  on May 29, 2011. Dallas Braden achieved the feat
in the American League 20 days before Halladay in a 4-0 win for
the Oakland Athletics against the Tampa Bay Rays.  Ervin Santana on July 27, 2011, pitched the third and final
no-hitter last season as the visiting Los Angeles Angels beat
the Cleveland Indians 3-1.  Texas Rangers President and Hall of Famer Nolan Ryan holds
the major league record with seven no-hitters.  The  San Diego Padres  are the only major league team never
to have had a no-hitter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  