-- Arizona Sheriff Asks to Have U.S. Discrimination Suit Thrown Out
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-06-09T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-09/arizona-sheriff-seeks-to-dismiss-u-s-discrimination-claims-1-.html
Arizona ’s Maricopa County Sheriff’s
Office and its sheriff, Joseph Arpaio, seek to dismiss the U.S.
 Justice Department ’s lawsuit accusing its deputies of
intentionally and systematically mistreating Latinos.  The sheriff’s office should be dismissed from the complaint
because it’s a “nonjural entity” that can’t be sued, lawyers
for the office and Arpaio said in a filing yesterday in federal
court in Phoenix. Claims that the sheriff’s law enforcement
practices had a “disparate impact” on Latinos aren’t supported
by statistical evidence, according to the filing.  The Justice Department sued Maricopa County, the sheriff’s
office and the sheriff on May 10, accusing them of
discriminating against Latinos, who it said are frequently
stopped, detained and arrested on basis of their race, color or
national origin. The office also discriminates against Latino
inmates and retaliates against critics, the U.S. said.  Federal officials’ claim that the sheriff’s practices have
a disparate impact on Latinos rely “in significant part on
anecdotal allegations rather than specific statistics,” lawyers
for the sheriff’s office said.  Arpaio, who has been elected five times and has served 20
years in office, said when the lawsuit was filed that President
 Barack Obama  was going after him to court Latino voters.  Representatives of the Justice Department in Washington
didn’t immediately return a call yesterday after regular
business hours seeking comment on the filing  The case is U.S. v. Maricopa County, 12-00981, U.S.
District Court, District of Arizona (Phoenix).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  