-- Asia Stocks Rise, Ending 5 Weeks of Losses on Stimulus Optimism
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a   a n d   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-06-09T00:01:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-09/asia-stocks-rise-ending-5-weeks-of-losses-on-stimulus-optimism.html
Asian  stocks  rose this week, ending a
five-week streak of declines, as global policy makers in the
U.S., Europe and China signaled they would take steps to
stimulate growth. Shares pared gains yesterday amid concern
 China’s economy  is slowing.  HSBC Holdings Plc (5) , a lender that gets about a fifth of its
revenue from North America, rose 3.5 percent in Hong Kong.  Gree
Inc. (3632) , a Japanese social networking site, surged 21 percent in
Tokyo after announcing a new game.  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) ,
Australia’s largest carrier, slumped 34 percent in Sydney after
forecasting a full-year loss.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 0.1 percent to 111.50 this
week, ending its longest weekly losing streak since June 2011.
The gauge has tumbled 14 percent from this year’s high on Feb.
29 amid concern Europe’s debt crisis is worsening and signs
China’s economy is slowing. Stocks on the index were valued at
about 11.3 times estimated earnings on average, compared with
12.7 times for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We are likely to see a reasonably strong policy response
in a number of countries,” said  Angus Gluskie , managing
director at White Funds Management in Sydney who manages more
than $350 million. “It’s stacking up to be a reasonably good
buying opportunity.”  Topix’s Low  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  gained 0.2 percent this
week, while the Topix Index rose 1.2 percent, rebounding after
the gauge plunged to its lowest level since 1983 and entered a
bear market on disappointing U.S. jobs and China services data.  Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  slid 0.3 percent, while China’s
Shanghai Composite Index retreated 3.9 percent. Taiwan’s Taiex
Index lost 1.5 percent, while South Korea’s Kospi Index rose 0.1
percent.  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 was little changed even after a
report the nation’s economy expanded twice as fast as economists
estimated in the first quarter from the previous three months.  Asian shares declined on the first trading day this week
after reports showed China’s non-manufacturing industries
expanded at the slowest pace in more than a year and U.S. hiring
missed even the most-pessimistic forecast. The jobless rate rose
to 8.2 percent and manufacturing index retreated from a 10-month
high.  The Asian gauge rallied the next three days as
disappointing economic data and signals from global policy
makers added to speculation that fresh stimulus measures would
be introduced to support growth.  ECB Ready  European Central Bank President Mario Draghi said officials
stand ready to act as the euro region’s growth outlook worsens.
Federal Reserve Vice Chairman Janet Yellen said the  U.S. economy 
“remains vulnerable to setbacks” and may warrant additional
monetary stimulus.  Dennis Lockhart , president of the Fed’s
Atlanta bank, said extending Operation Twist, a policy of buying
longer-term bonds, is an “option on the table.”  HSBC rose 3.5 percent to HK$63 in  Hong Kong .  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930) , a consumer-electronics maker that gets more
than a third of sales from Europe and the Americas, advanced 1.1
percent to 1.247 million won in Seoul.  James Hardie Industries
SE (JHX) , a supplier of building materials the counts the U.S. as its
largest market, climbed 2.1 percent to A$7.40 in Sydney.  “There may be fatigue in being bearish,” said  Yoji Takeda ,
who oversees $1.1 billion at RBC Investment Management (Asia)
Ltd. in Hong Kong. “Stocks look very cheap because they’ve been
sold down.”  China Easing  Shares in the region pared gains yesterday after China cut
borrowing costs and relaxed controls on bank lending and deposit
rates. The announcement came before the release of data today
that may show  China ’s fixed-asset investment expanded at the
slowest pace in a decade in May, inflation matched a two-year
low and industrial output grew less than 10 percent for a second
month.  “Growth worries could weigh on market sentiment,” Lu Ting,
an economist at Bank of America Corp., wrote in a report before
the release of the data. The timing of China’s interest-rate cut
suggests that economic data for May may be worse than expected,
he said.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  damped
expectations for monetary stimulus later in the week, after
saying the Fed will need to assess conditions before deciding if
more measures are required to stoke an economy threatened by
Europe’s debt crisis and U.S. budget cuts.  Gree surged 21 percent to 1,363 yen this week in Tokyo, the
 biggest  gain on  the MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP) , after saying it was
offering a version of PopCap Games’ hit title Bejeweled
customized for the Japanese market.  Qantas Airways tumbled 34 percent to 97 Australian cents
this week in Sydney, wiping out at least $1 billion of market
value, after saying full-year profit may fall as much as 91
percent because of losses on overseas routes and higher fuel
costs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  