-- Canada Dollar Gains First Time in Six Weeks on Jobs, Rate Wagers
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-06-09T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-09/canada-dollar-gains-first-time-in-six-weeks-on-jobs-rate-wagers.html
Canada ’s dollar rose for the first
time in six weeks against its U.S. peer after the central bank
quelled speculation about interest-rate cuts and as employers
added more jobs to payrolls than economists predicted.  The currency added to weekly gains yesterday before Chinese
economic data that may show the world’s second-largest economy
is slowing. Canada’s dollar strengthened against the majority of
its most-traded peers before the nation auctions three-year debt
next week.  “The  Bank of Canada  is reluctant to cut,”  Mary Nicola , a
New York-based currency strategist at BNP Paribas SA, said in a
phone interview. “The market priced all those cuts out -- that
helped the Canadian dollar. The positive risk momentum as well
helped, and the jobs numbers were somewhat supportive.”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, gained 1.4 percent this week
to C$1.0266 per  U.S. dollar , after weakening to C$1.0447 to
start the week, the lowest level since November. One Canadian
dollar purchases 97.41 U.S. cents.  The currency, which strengthened to a seven-month high of
98 cents per U.S. dollar on April 27, will retrace its steps as
far as parity by the end of the year, according to the median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 41 economists.  Ten-year government  bonds  fell for the first time in six
weeks, pushing the yield up 18 basis points, or 0.18 percentage
point, to 1.81 percent. It touched 1.615 percent on June 1, the
lowest since 1950, according to Bloomberg and Bank of Canada
data.  The government will sell $2.9 billion of three-year
securities on on June 13, the central bank said on its website.
The 1.5 percent securities mature in August 2015.  ‘Modest Withdrawal’  Traders reduced wagers that the Bank of Canada will cut
 interest rates  this year after policy makers said in a June 5
statement “some modest withdrawal of the present considerable
monetary policy stimulus may become appropriate.” The central
bank left its benchmark overnight rate unchanged at 1 percent,
as predicted by all 27 forecasters in a Bloomberg survey.  As of yesterday, investors were pricing in about seven
basis points of central-bank easing by year-end, compared with
31 basis points priced in at the end of last week, according to
Bloomberg calculations on overnight index swaps.  There’s a 26 percent chance of at least one quarter-
percentage point cut this year, compared with an 83 percent
chance on June 1, swaps trading shows.  Jobs Gains  Canada, the world’s 10th largest economy, added 7,700  jobs 
last month,  Statistics Canada  said yesterday in Ottawa,
following monthly gains of 58,200 and 82,300. An addition of
5,000 jobs was forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  The People’s Bank of  China  reduced benchmark interest rates
for the first time since 2008 on June 7, spurring speculation
economic data due to be released today is weaker than policy
makers expected. China’s fixed-asset investment probably
expanded at the slowest pace in a decade in May, gains in
consumer prices matched a two-year low and industrial output
grew less than 10 percent for a second month, Bloomberg
economist surveys show.  Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Indexes show the loonie rose
0.2 percent this week, beating out five of nine major
counterparts. The U.S. dollar dropped 0.9 percent. The yen
depreciated 2.9 percent.  Crude oil, Canada’s biggest export, rose for the first time
in six weeks, gaining 1.1 percent to $84.10 per barrel in  New
York .  Raw materials  including oil account for about half of
Canada’s export revenue.  “The Canadian dollar had a brief and modest rally this
week, but the tone is still quite negative,” Blake Jespersen,
director of foreign exchange in Toronto at  Bank of Montreal (BMO) ,
said in an e-mail. “We’re staying fairly flat.” Jespersen
predicted the Canadian dollar will trade between C$1.01 and
C$1.05 over the next month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  