-- Chesapeake Investors Punish Board Amid ‘Collapse’ in Confidence
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l   a n d   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2012-06-09T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-09/chesapeake-investors-punish-board-amid-collapse-in-confidence.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  shareholders
issued a sweeping repudiation of the company’s management
yesterday by rejecting two directors and demanding more
influence over the second-largest U.S. natural-gas producer.  Directors V. Burns Hargis and Richard K. Davidson each
garnered the support of less than 30 percent of shareholders
that cast votes at yesterday’s annual meeting in Oklahoma City.
Both men, who are leading a probe of Chief Executive Officer
 Aubrey McClendon ’s personal finances, offered to resign after
the vote. The board isn’t required to let them go and said in a
statement it would decide later.  Chesapeake’s board and executive team have been contending
with an investor revolt after slumping energy prices and
criticism of McClendon’s personal dealings with company
financiers wiped out $2.6 billion in market value this year. A
new group of directors recommended by the company’s two largest
shareholders will take control of the board this month as
McClendon approaches the end of a 23-year reign as chairman of
the company he co-founded.  The rejection of two directors “represents a total and
complete collapse of investor confidence,” said  Michael Garland , governance expert for the  New York  City Comptroller’s
Office that controls pension funds invested in Chesapeake. In an
interview yesterday outside the meeting in  Oklahoma City  he
accused the board of “costly oversight failures.”  Rising Criticism  McClendon, 52, has been under increasing scrutiny from
investors and analysts for loans he obtained using personal
stakes in company wells as collateral, and for a wrong-way bet
on natural-gas prices that worsened a cashflow shortfall. Last
month, the company disclosed an unexpected $71 million first-
quarter loss and warned it may run out of cash next year.  “Something is out of whack here at Chesapeake,” Gerald Armstrong, a Denver-based shareholder, said during an address to
yesterday’s shareholder meeting. “The absence of good
governance practices has become more apparent. Accountability is
what it’s all about.”  McClendon “might not be here next year,” Armstrong said
during a three-minute address in an auditorium on Chesapeake’s
corporate campus.  Craig Rhines, investment officer for the  California Public
Employees’ Retirement System  in Sacramento, said he was
surprised by the depth of dissatisfaction with Hargis, president
of Oklahoma State University, and Davidson, former chairman of
 Union Pacific Corp. (UNP)   “The vote is extraordinary,” Rhines said in an interview
yesterday.  Investor Power  Shareholders also overcame company opposition to three
measures intended to dilute the power concentrated in the nine-
person board of directors.  A requirement that directors receive a majority of votes 
cast to be elected received support from 97 percent of voters
yesterday. Although that total fell short of the 66.6 percent of
outstanding shares required under the company’s bylaws,
directors decided to implement the majority-voting standard
immediately.  The holders also voted 86 percent in favor of doing away
with a requirement that changes to corporate bylaws must be
supported by two-thirds of outstanding shares. A measure that
would give large, long-term investors the right to nominate
candidates for board seats received support from 60 percent of
the votes cast yesterday.  Half of the board’s eight non-executive directors are
scheduled to be replaced by June 22 under an agreement announced
this week with Southeastern Asset Management and  Carl Icahn ,
which together control more than 20 percent of Chesapeake’s
common stock. Icahn will appoint one of the new directors and
Memphis-based Southeastern the other three. The chairman also
will be announced in that time.  Keeping Hargis  Southeastern said in a filing after the meeting that
Chesapeake should keep Hargis on the board until the review of
McClendon’s finances is completed. Southeastern said it voted
against both Hargis and Davidson, and said it hopes the review
can be completed within “weeks, not months.”  Chesapeake’s audit committee hired outside counsel Locke
Lord LLP earlier this year to assist in its review of
McClendon’s loans. The executive perk that allows McClendon to
buy stakes of as much as 2.5 percent in almost every well the
company drills will be discontinued in 2014.  Risk Taking  Shareholders including Garland criticized the board for
failing to rein in what they’ve seen as McClendon’s risk taking
and overspending at the company. Vincent Intrieri, a director at
Icahn Capital, urged the board to remain open to “all strategic
alternatives,” including a sale of the entire company.  “Aubrey, you are a great oil and gas man,” Intrieri said
during yesterday’s meeting. He added that even great people need
oversight.  Under McClendon’s leadership, Chesapeake outspent cashflow
in 19 of the past 21 years as it amassed drilling leases from
Appalachia to the  Rocky Mountains  and made some of the biggest
onshore discoveries of the past 20 years, including the
Haynesville Shale formation in  Louisiana  and the Utica Shale in
 Ohio .  Facing a cashflow crunch that Alembic Global Advisors
estimates may exceed $22 billion by the end of next year,
Chesapeake sought a $4 billion bailout from Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. and  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF)  last month in the form of a short-
 term loan .  Asset Sales  Before yesterday’s meeting began, the company announced
plans to sell its pipeline assets for about $4 billion to Global
Infrastructure Partners in three cash transactions. Chesapeake
will sell its interests in  Chesapeake Midstream Partners LP (CHKM)  to
Global Infrastructure for $2 billion, the company said in a
statement. Chesapeake also will raise more than $2 billion by
divesting its pipeline development unit and some central U.S.
conduits to Chesapeake Midstream.  The pipeline transactions bring Chesapeake’s asset sales
total so far this year to $6.6 billion, almost halfway to the
upper range of McClendon’s 2012 fundraising goal of $14 billion.
He reiterated plans yesterday to reduce long-term debt to $9.5
billion by the end of December.  The largest asset Chesapeake plans to sell this year, a
series of oilfields in the Permian Basin in west  Texas  and  New
Mexico , has been examined in a so-called data room at
Chesapeake’s Oklahoma City headquarters by about 20 energy
companies, McClendon said yesterday. Ten more are expected to
view the data in coming weeks, he said.  McClendon said in a March interview that he expects the
Permian Basin assets to fetch at least $5 billion and that they
may be sold in a few pieces rather than as a whole.  Chesapeake was the best-performing energy stock in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index yesterday, rising 2.9 percent to
$18.36 in New York. The shares have fallen 18 percent this year
as the impact of tumbling gas prices was compounded by investor
distrust stemming from McClendon’s personal financial
transactions.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  is the largest U.S. gas producer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net ;
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  