-- China Slowing Inflation, Output Growth Add Stimulus Pressure
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-10T04:12:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-09/china-s-consumer-prices-rise-at-slowest-pace-in-two-years-1-.html
China ’s consumer prices rose the
least in two years in May and industrial output and retail sales
trailed estimates, adding pressure for more stimulus after the
first interest-rate cut in three years.  Inflation slowed to 3 percent from a year earlier, the
National Bureau of Statistics said yesterday, compared with the
3.2 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.
Production increased 9.6 percent, lower than a projected 9.8
percent gain, and retail sales climbed 13.8 percent, the
Beijing-based bureau said in separate statements.  The data add to concern global growth is stalling as Greece
teeters on the edge of exiting the euro,  Spain  seeks a bailout
for its banks, and U.S. job growth weakens. Premier  Wen Jiabao 
may introduce additional stimulus to protect a full-year growth
target of 7.5 percent even as the nation wrestles with bad loan
risks from local government debt.  “These data should defeat any remaining complacency that
the policy response has been adequate to maintain steady
growth,” said Shen Jianguang, chief Asia economist at Mizuho
Securities Asia Ltd. in Hong Kong. “More dramatic easing,
especially in housing and local government financing vehicles is
urgently needed and necessary to avoid a hard landing in the
Chinese economy.”  Trade Rebounds  May trade data released today showed exports and import
growth topped estimates. Overseas shipments rose 15.3 percent
from a year earlier, exceeding all 29 analyst estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey, as sales to the U.S. jumped the most this
year and purchases by European Union countries rose for the
first time in three months.  Imports gained 12.7 percent from a year earlier, the
Beijing-based customs bureau said. That compared with the median
estimate of 5.5 percent in a Bloomberg survey and a 0.3 percent
increase in April. The trade surplus of $18.7 billion also beat
forecasts.  “This shows it’s not all doom and gloom,” said Song Seng Wun, an economist with CIMB Research Pte. in  Singapore . “Growth
momentum may be slowing, but it’s not about to crash.”  The People’s Bank of China lowered benchmark lending and
deposit rates by 25 basis points effective June 8, taking one-
year borrowing costs down to 6.31 percent and the one-year
savings rate to 3.25 percent. It also allowed banks more leeway
to set their own interest rates.  More Cuts  The reserve ratio has dropped by 150 basis points, or 1.5
percentage points, in three cuts since November to spur credit
growth and now stands at 20 percent for the biggest banks.  Mizuho’s Shen, who previously worked for the  European
Central Bank , said he expected at least one more reduction in
 interest rates  and three cuts in banks’  reserve requirements 
this year.  Chinese  stocks  fell June 8, capping the biggest weekly
slide this year, after the central bank’s rate cut added to
concern the nation’s economic slowdown is deepening. U.S. shares
rallied, driving the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to its best
weekly gain since December, amid speculation European and
American central banks will join China in trying to spur
economic growth.  Slowing inflation “is what gave the central bank the
confidence to cut interest rates,” said Liu Li-Gang, head of
Greater China economics at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd. in Hong Kong, who accurately forecast the consumer-price
reading. “Given the falling producer prices, China’s inflation
outlook remains benign and we expect another cut in banks’
reserve requirements in June to boost slowing economic
activities.”  Data Weakness  Stephen Green , head of Greater China research at Standard
Chartered Plc in  Hong Kong , forecasts two 25 basis-point
reductions in benchmark one-year interest rates in the second
half, assuming further weakness in economic data through July
and continued “difficulties” in the euro area.  China’s  industrial production  growth was below 10 percent
for a second month in May, yesterday’s data showed, the first
time that’s happened in three years. Power output rose at the
second-slowest pace in three years excluding distortions caused
by the timing of the Lunar New Year holiday.  Retail sales, which aren’t adjusted for inflation, rose the
least in almost six years, excluding the January and February
holiday months. Growth in sales of home appliances slid to 0.5
percent compared with a 15.4 percent gain in May last year,
after the government ended incentive programs.  Deliveries Rise  Deliveries of passenger vehicles to dealerships by
automakers including Toyota Motor Corp. and Honda Motor Co. rose
22.6 percent last month from a year earlier to 1.28 million
units, the China Association of Automobile Manufacturers said in
Beijing yesterday. The rebound came after deliveries fell 0.1
percent in May last year as Japanese automakers cut production
after  Japan ’s earthquake.  Fixed-asset investment, excluding rural households and not
adjusted for inflation, rose 20.1 percent in the first five
months, compared with the median economist estimate for a 20
percent gain. That was the weakest increase for a January-May
period since 2001, according to previously released data.  The  producer-price index  fell 1.4 percent in May from a
year earlier, compared with the median estimate for a 1.1
percent drop. That’s the third straight decrease and the longest
stretch of declines since 2009.  Move Aggressively  “China’s producers are seeing sharp deflation, pointing to
a worrying lack of final demand,” said Alistair Thornton, an
economist at IHS Global Insight in Beijing. The decline in
prices, combined with the “sharp” drop in the prices gauge in
May’s purchasing managers’ index, “points to considerable
sluggishness in domestic manufacturing activity” and should
“act as a spur for the government to move more aggressively,”
he said.  Anhui Conch Cement Co. (914) , the nation’s biggest cement
producer, warned June 7 its first-half profit probably fell more
than 50 percent as prices of its products “dropped
significantly” due to slower growth in fixed-asset investment.  China’s economy  expanded 8.1 percent in the first three
months from a year earlier, the fifth quarterly  deceleration  and
the slowest pace in almost three years. Growth may slide to 7
percent to 7.5 percent this quarter, Lu Ting, head of Greater
China economics at Bank of America Corp. in Hong Kong, wrote in
a note yesterday.  “We expect the government to start and speed up more
projects on the one hand and to make  project financing  easier”
by cutting reserve requirements and interest rates, approving
more corporate bond issuance and lifting lending restrictions,
he said.  --Zhou Xin. With assistance from Ailing Tan in Singapore,
Cynthia Li and Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong, Penny Peng, Zheng Lifei and Huang Zhe in Beijing, Jing Jin and Fan Wenxin in
 Shanghai . Editors: Nerys Avery,  Jim McDonald   To contact Bloomberg news staff on this story:
Zhou Xin in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  