-- China’s May Passenger-Car Sales Exceed Analyst Estimates
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-09T08:22:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-09/china-s-may-passenger-car-sales-exceed-analyst-estimates.html
China ’s passenger-vehicle sales rose
more than analysts estimated in May as purchases of  Toyota (7203)  Motor
Corp. and Honda Motor Co. cars recovered from disruptions caused
by last year’s natural disasters.  Deliveries, including multipurpose and sport-utility
vehicles, rose by 22.6 percent to 1.28 million units last month,
Chen Shihua, statistics department head at the China Association
of Automobile Manufacturers, said today at a briefing in
Beijing. That beat the 1.2 million average of seven analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales in May beat estimates for a third straight month,
with Toyota and Honda leading growth as factories recovered from
last year’s tsunami in  Japan  and floods in  Thailand . CAAM Deputy
Secretary General Yao Jie said at the briefing today that the
industry is becoming more stable.  “Last May was pretty bad in terms of the passenger-car
sales tally,”  Harry Chen , a Shenzhen-based analyst with Guotai
Junan Securities Co., said before today’s release. “Dealers are
very cautious about the coming months and eager to find out
whether the government will roll out stimulus policies.”  Toyota’s China sales in May more than doubled from a year
earlier to 78,700 units. Honda reported a 92 percent surge and
 Nissan Motor Co. (7201) ’s sales increased 20 percent.  General Motors Co. (GM) , the world’s biggest automaker, said on
June 5 vehicle sales in China last month rose 21 percent, driven
by demand for its Wuling minivan and Chevrolet models.  Ford
Motor Co. (F)  saw its passenger-vehicle deliveries increase 23
percent.  June Sales  “We expect sales growth to remain strong in June,” UBS AG
analysts Hou Yankun, Xu Ming and Zou Tianlong, wrote in a note
on June 6. The government’s stimulus policies “could boost
consumer sentiment in the short term.”  China on June 7 announced its first  interest rate  cut since
2008 as the policy makers seeks to bolster economic growth. The
government is also introducing other measures to stimulate
consumption, with Premier  Wen Jiabao  saying May 16 that
authorities will allocate 6 billion  yuan  ($942 million) of
subsidies for purchases of vehicles with engines of less than
1.6 liters.  China’s cabinet agreed last month to revive financial
incentives for consumers to trade in their passenger cars to
help increase demand, a government official said last month.
Separately, the  finance ministry  said on May 29 that the
government will spend as much as 2 billion yuan a year to
develop alternative-energy vehicles to reduce fuel consumption.  Vehicle sales for May rose 16 percent from a year earlier
to 1.61 million units, the car association said today. For the
first five months of the year, passenger car sales increased
5.48 percent to 6.33 million units.  China’s auto industry will improve further in the next few
months, the association’s Yao said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  