-- Denmark Upsets Netherlands at Euro 2012; Germany Beats Portugal
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-06-09T21:21:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-09/denmark-upsets-netherlands-1-0-in-opening-euro-2012-group-b-game.html
Denmark  upset the Netherlands 1-0 in
the opening Group B match at the European soccer championship,
as Germany overcame a stubborn Portugal team to win by the same
score.  Michael Krohn-Dehli scored the only goal yesterday in
Denmark’s victory in Kharkiv, Ukraine. The Netherlands dominated
with 28 shot attempts, but only put eight on target. All eight
of the Danish shots were on target.  “We played to our strengths,” Netherlands coach  Bert van
Marwijk  said on the website of tournament organizer UEFA. “The
players really wanted to do something with all the chances but
the ball didn’t want to go in.”  Mario Gomez ’s goal in the 72nd minute lifted Germany past
Portugal in Lviv, Ukraine. German goalkeeper  Manuel Neuer ,
unchallenged most of the game, made two late saves to preserve
the win.  Play begins today in Group C in  Poland  as defending
champion Spain meets Italy in Gdansk and Ireland takes on
 Croatia  in Poznan.  The Netherlands was ahead in every statistical category
against Denmark except the final score. The Danes took the lead
after 24 minutes when Simon Poulson’s cross deflected to Krohn-
Dehli, who went by two defenders and put a shot through the legs
of goalkeeper  Maarten Stekelenburg .  Arjen Robben  hit the post for the Netherlands 12 minutes
later and Danish goalkeeper Stephan Andersen blocked a shot from
 Robin van Persie .  Statistical Dominance  Holland’s dominance continued in the second half as Robben,
van Persie and captain Mark van Bommel all had chances. Van
Marwijk brought on Klaas-Jan Huntelaar, who led all scorers in
qualifying with 12 goals, for the last 20 minutes and the
striker had an immediate chance stopped by Andersen, who also
blocked van Persie’s rebound attempt.  The Dutch had a penalty appeal for handball denied in the
89th minute and van Persie headed his team’s final attempt just
over the crossbar in stoppage time.  “I think it was a fantastic performance, we dared to play
football against this Dutch team,” Denmark coach Morten Olsen
said on UEFA’s website. “We also had chances and without being
biased, I think the victory was more than deserved.”  The Netherlands meet rival  Germany  in their next game June
13 in Kharkiv facing possible elimination from the 16-team
tournament. Denmark plays Portugal the same day in Lviv.  “We can still do a lot and we just have to beat Germany,”
van Marwijk said. “That’s not going to be easy but that the
goal now and everyone knows that.”  Crossbar  In Lviv, Germany had 61 percent of possession in the
opening half but it was Portugal defender Pepe who came closest
to scoring when he hit the underside of the cross bar in
stoppage time. The Portuguese argued the ball was over the goal
line when it came down and television replays it wasn’t.  The Germans continued to pressure in the second half but
lacked a real scoring chance.  Portugal ’s Cristiano Ronaldo then
looked to have a free shot at the other end, but was denied by
Jerome Boateng’s tackle.  Germany finally broke through as Sami Khedira sent a cross
from the left which Gomez headed back across goal into the lower
right corner.  Ronaldo forced Neuer to his knees to save his swerving
shot and Nani’s curling cross hit the top of the crossbar.  Neuer also came off his line to stop a shot from Silvestre
Varela in the 89th minute and Nani had a shot blocked by
defender Holger Badstuber in stoppage time. Bruno Alves then
headed Portugal’s last chance off the resulting corner kick over
goal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 