-- Emanuel Predicts White House Race Coming Down to 5 States
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-06-10T15:32:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-09/emanuel-predicts-white-house-race-coming-down-to-5-states.html
Chicago Mayor  Rahm Emanuel  said
President  Barack Obama  faces a close re-election contest that
may be determined by swing voters in as few as five states.  “It’s five states, 500 precincts,” said Emanuel, Obama’s
former White House chief of staff, in an interview today on
CNN’s “Fareed Zakaria GPS” program. “That’s what I believe.”  Emanuel said the election will turn on how voters in states
such as Ohio, Virginia and  Wisconsin  perceive the economic
priorities of Obama and  Mitt Romney , the presumptive Republican
nominee.  While the Obama administration bailed out a once-ailing
 auto industry  that has since rebounded, Romney would have “let
it go bankrupt,” Emanuel said, according to a transcript of the
interview.  The candidates’ differences on their approach to the auto,
financial and housing industries will “be the fundamental core
piece of what this election is about,” Emanuel said, without
specifying which five states he was referring to.  A decisive win by either party in the November elections
also may help Congress break a partisan stalemate over taxes and
spending, Emanuel said.  Fiscal Cliff  Lawmakers face what Emanuel described as “a fiscal cliff”
at the end of this year when tax cuts enacted in the George W. Bush administration are set to expire and automatic spending
cuts triggered by last year’s debt ceiling agreement begin to
take effect.  “If the election is decisive in its clarity of meaning,”
Emanuel said, “I think you could find a solution to all these
issues.”  A former Democratic congressman from  Illinois , Emanuel also
pushed back against claims by Romney and other Republicans that
the key to improving the economy is to cut  government spending .  Instead, Emanuel said, Congress should pass new spending
measures for infrastructure to stimulate the economy. He said
the only such measures that have passed in recent years were a
2005 highway bill and the 2009 economic stimulus package that
has since run its course.  “That’s it,” he said. “That’s no way to run a modern
economy.”  Wisconsin Recall  Emanuel also downplayed the importance of the recall
election this week in Wisconsin, where Republican Governor  Scott Walker  beat back an effort to recall him by a margin of 53
percent to 46 percent.  While that election turned partly on Walker’s opposition to
collective bargaining rights for public employees, Emanuel said
voters rejected using a recall to settle a public policy
dispute.  “I think people know when you’re recalled, it’s got to be
something severe,” he said. “You’ve committed corruption or
something of that level. And I think that’s where the judgment
was. This was not the tool for disagreeing with his policies on
collective bargaining or other issues.”  Still, Emanuel said labor unions must agree to long-term
changes that include reining in cost-of-living adjustments on
pensions.  “If your attitude is, ‘We did it this way for 30 years,
we’re going to keep doing it this way for 30 years,’ that’s not
feasible,” he said. “The taxpayers can’t support that
anymore.”  Walker, speaking on CBS’s “Face the Nation” today, said
his state was leaning to Obama six months ago and is now “up in
the air.”  Walker said he hopes Romney copies the late Republican
President  Ronald Reagan ’s 1980 campaign by making the election
more than a referendum on the failures of the Democratic
incumbent.  “The R next to the name cannot be just about being
Republican,” Walker said. “It’s got to be about being a
reformer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  