-- Emerson Says Trash-Talking Australia Economy Weighs on Sentiment
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-06-09T00:04:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-09/emerson-says-trash-talking-australia-economy-weighs-on-sentiment.html
Australian  consumer confidence  has
been restrained by falling house prices, and government
opponents who express pessimism about the economy aren’t helping
to revive sentiment, Trade Minister Craig Emerson said.  “We do have an opposition that is determined to talk the
economy down,” Emerson said on  Sky News  today. “The trash
talking is having a negative effect.”  Consumer confidence in May was near the lowest level this
year as concern about the global economy outweighed central bank
interest-rate cuts and resource-fueled domestic growth,
according to a  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  and Melbourne Institute
survey. Government reports this week showed gross domestic
product grew 1.3 percent in the first quarter from a year
earlier, the biggest expansion since 2007, and employment gained
by 38,900 jobs in May.  The reports showed  Australia  has one of the world’s
fastest-growing developed economies, with an unemployment rate
of 5.1 percent. That’s less than half the 11 percent level of
joblessness in the euro area.  The local currency advanced 2.2 percent this week, the
biggest weekly rise since early December.  Still, the nature of public discussion “is unrelentingly
gloomy,”  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  said
in a speech yesterday. Even before recent events in  Europe , “we
were firmly determined to see out glass as half empty,” he
said, adding that his view is “Australia’s glass is at least
half full.”  Two-Speed Economy  Stevens’s view “is that talking the economy down is not
helping consumer sentiment, and that’s a realistic assessment,”
Emerson said.  Australia has what the central bank and government
officials have called a two-speed economy, distinguished by
resource-rich regions in the north and west that are powering
growth and hiring workers, and struggling tourism, manufacturing
and retail industries across the south and east.  “This is not new in Australian historic experience, but
perhaps the difference in the speeds is pretty noticeable,”
Emerson said. The government is implementing a profits-based
mining tax, so households can share the benefits of the mining
boom, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  