-- Euro Snaps Six-Week Drop as Spain May Receive Support
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-06-09T04:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-09/euro-snaps-six-week-drop-as-spain-may-receive-support.html
The euro rose for the first time in
seven weeks versus the yen on speculation Spain may receive aid
to ensure access to  capital markets  and amid indications the
shared currency’s decline was too rapid.  The 17-nation euro rallied against the dollar as European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said policy makers were
“ready to act” after leaving their benchmark rate at a record
low. The greenback declined after China cut its key interest
rates for the first time since 2008, damping appetite for refuge
assets. European finance ministers will hold a conference call
today to discuss potential emergency assistance plan for Spain.  “The euro can’t fall forever,” said Blake Jespersen,
director of foreign exchange in Toronto at Bank of Montreal.
“There was bound to be some profit-taking at some point, or
some hope that Europe would finally embrace the euro bond, or
more importantly, the bank recapitalization from  Spain .”  The euro rose 2.5 percent to 99.47 per yen, its first
weekly increase since April 20. The shared currency gained 0.7
percent to $1.2517 for its first rise against the greenback in
six weeks. The yen lost 1.9 percent to 79.49 per dollar.  Futures traders  increased  net bets against the euro versus
the dollar to a record high for a fifth week. So-called net
shorts rose by 11,000 to 214,418 contracts for the period ended
June 5, Commodity Futures Trading Commission data showed
yesterday.  Market Measure  The 14-day relative strength index for the euro versus the
dollar rose above 30 on June 4 for the first time in nine days,
ending the longest streak since 2008. When the index moves below
30 it indicates an asset’s decline may have been overdone.  Currencies of commodity-exporting countries rose after
China cut interest rates. The country’s one-year deposit and
lending rates were decreased by 0.25 percentage points to
counter what Premier  Wen Jiabao  has called increasing downward
economic pressure.  The Australian dollar rallied above parity with the
greenback on June 7 for the first time since May 15. The Aussie
rose 2.2 percent to 99.16 U.S. cents. China is Australia’s
largest trading partner.  The  Mexican peso  climbed 2.7 percent to 13.9212, its
biggest gain since the week ended Jan. 20.  “The way it’s played out is through a positive move in
risk appetite,”  Adam Cole , global head of foreign-exchange
strategy in London at Royal Bank of Canada’s  RBC Capital
Markets , said in a June 7 interview.  Fed Watch  The dollar pared losses June 7 as  Federal Reserve  Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  refrained from signaling additional steps the
central bank might take to spur growth, during congressional
testimony.  “The situation in Europe poses significant risks to the
U.S. financial system and economy and must be monitored
closely,” Bernanke said in testimony to the Joint Economic
Committee in Washington. “As always, the Federal Reserve remains
prepared to take action as needed to protect the U.S. financial
system and economy in the event that financial stresses
escalate.”  The policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee  meets June
19-20.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, fell 0.5 percent to 82.439. It touched 81.911
on June 7, the lowest level since May 28.  Canada Rally  Canada’s dollar rose against most major currencies even as
a jobs report showed employers in May added the fewest jobs in
three months. The country also recorded its first merchandise
 trade deficit  in six months in April as exports declined.  Bank of Canada policy makers led by Governor  Mark Carney 
held their  key interest rate  at 1 percent on June 5 and said the
country’s underlying economic momentum is in line with
projections, even after first-quarter growth that trailed their
earlier forecast. The central bank also said that tensions from
 Europe ’s debt crisis have increased while the prices of  exported
commodities  have eased.  The so-called loonie rose 1.4 percent to C$1.0266, snapping
five weekly declines.  The ECB’s Draghi said during a June 6 press conference in
Frankfurt that officials will extend their offerings of
unlimited cash to banks until the start of 2013 for periods up
to three months as they endeavor to counter risks stemming from
the region’s debt crisis.  ECB Policy  The ECB’s decision to keep its benchmark rate unchanged was
forecast by 49 of 60 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Ten
forecast a quarter-percentage-point reduction, and one a half-
point cut.  “The market is starting to anticipate what action we could
see from policy makers,”  Lee Hardman , a currency strategist at
Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in  London , said in a June 6
interview. “We’re starting to see the safe-haven currencies of
the dollar and the yen give back some of their strong recent
gains. It’s more hope than anything that is driving the more
favorable market dynamics” for the euro.  The euro received support as  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads
the group of euro-area finance ministers said Spain would get
euro-area bank aid. The nation’s short-term debt was downgraded
to F2 from F1 by  Fitch Ratings  on June 7. Its long-term outlook
was negative.  The 17-nation currency touched to a two-week high versus
the dollar on June 7 as German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said the
nation is ready to back euro-area financial instruments. Merkel
didn’t specify which financial instruments she was discussing.  The shared currency has fallen 3.9 percent during the past
six months, the worst performance among the 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
The dollar gained 3.1 percent, and the yen advanced 0.5 percent.  The euro will strengthen to $1.26 by year-end, according to
the average analyst estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in  New York  at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  