-- Finland Wants Collateral for Spanish Bank Aid From EFSF
-- B y   K a s p e r   V i i t a
-- 2012-06-09T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-09/finland-wants-collateral-for-spanish-bank-aid-from-efsf.html
Finland  will demand collateral for
its share of emergency loans to shore up the Spanish banking
system should the money come from the euro-region’s temporary
bailout fund, Finance Minister Jutta Urpilainen said.  “It remains undecided whether the bailout will be granted
via the temporary facility, in which case Finland will require
collateral,” Urpilainen told reporters in Kokkola, Finland,
yesterday. The other alternative is to grant the loan through
the European Stability Mechanism, the “permanent crisis
mechanism, which will provide better security for taxpayers”
and won’t result in demands for extra guarantees, Urpilainen
said.  Euro-area finance ministers agreed to bail out Spanish
banks in a rescue worth as much as 100 billion euros ($125
billion) after the country’s access to market funding narrowed.
The exact amount will be decided after an audit of the nation’s
banks is complete later this month, Urpilainen said.  Finland demands collateral for payments from the European
Financial Stability Facility, the temporary rescue fund, because
it lacks a preferred creditor status. The ESM’s preferred status
and the rules on private-sector burden sharing in case of
default mean the permanent fund is less likely to incur losses,
Finnish Finance Ministry aide Martti Salmi said yesterday.  Fund Active  The added security means Finland doesn’t seek collateral
for payments by the ESM, Urpilainen said. The ESM is scheduled
to become active next month. Using the EFSF as the vehicle for
the aid would mean  Spain  wouldn’t participate in the bailout and
other euro members’ contributions would increase, Urpilainen
said.  Granting the bailout “will take several weeks, as we need
a very precise analysis on the condition of Spanish banks,”
Urpilainen said. “Thus it’s possible that the recapitalization
will be organized through the permanent mechanism.”  International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine
Lagarde  said the potential scale of the aid package to Spain
“gives assurance that the financing needs of Spain’s banking
system will be fully met.”  Finland was the only nation last year to demand collateral
in exchange for its contribution to a second Greek rescue as the
government sought to appease bailout-weary voters. The country
also threatened to withdraw its backing for the ESM in December
over initial plans to drop unanimous voting rules, a move
Finland said would compromise national sovereignty.  Of the euro area’s 17 members, Finland,  Germany , Luxembourg
and the Netherlands have top AAA credit rating. The other
countries in the monetary union are  Austria ,  Belgium , Cyprus,
 Estonia , France, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Malta,  Portugal ,
Slovakia, Slovenia and Spain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasper Viita in Kokkola, Finland at 
 kviita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  