-- For Maria Sharapova, Career Grand Slam Tops Winning Wimbledon
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-06-09T22:01:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-09/for-maria-sharapova-career-grand-slam-tops-winning-wimbledon.html
Maria Sharapova  sunk to her knees on
the red clay at Roland Garros, held her head in her hands, then
got up and jumped around the court.  A backhand into the net by her Italian opponent,  Sara Errani , handed the Russian her first  French Open  title, and a
complete set of major tennis championships at the age of 25.  Sharapova had achieved worldwide fame and became the
world’s highest-paid female athlete when she won Wimbledon as a
teenager in 2004. A U.S. Open title followed in 2006, and an
Australian Open in 2008, before a potentially career-ending
shoulder injury forced her off the tour for nine months.  “I thought that when I won Wimbledon at 17, that would be
the most treasured moment of my career,” Sharapova told
reporters with the Coupe Suzanne Lenglen by her side after
beating Errani 6-3, 6-2. “But when I fell down on my knees
today I realized that this was extremely special, and even more
so.”  Sharapova’s victory -- she produced 37 winners, almost
three times more than her opponent -- made her only the sixth
woman since tennis turned professional in 1968 to complete the
career Grand Slam of having won all four majors at least once.  The Siberian-born player moved to the Nick Bollettieri
Academy in  Florida  at the age of 7, and she honed her game on
fast U.S. hard courts.  ‘Cow on Ice’  Roland Garros  was always the most difficult one to win for
the 6-foot-2 Sharapova, who once said she moved on slow red clay
like a “cow on ice.”  “Maybe less people will say that now,” Sharapova said in
an interview with a small group of reporters two hours after her
victory. “I’ve certainly improved my movement on the clay,
especially last year and this year. And that’s helped me
tremendously, giving me confidence mentally, knowing that I am
able to recover from one match to another, getting myself back
into the points, it’s extremely important.”  Her love for the game had kept her going when a torn
rotator cuff forced her out of the Beijing Olympics, the 2008
 U.S. Open  and the 2009 Australian Open.  “I never felt like anything gave me the joy as when you
are fighting to get a match point in the finals of a Grand
Slam,” said Sharapova, who took French lessons and started to
design shoes for Nike Inc. subsidiary Cole Haan while she worked
on her recovery.  Her injury could have been career-threatening, she said.  Frustrating Injury  “First, I was misdiagnosed, and I was playing with these
tears for four months,” Sharapova said. “Every time I’d hit a
serve, I would get the sharpest pain in the shoulder. People
were saying I had inflammation which was really frustrating
because I knew that there was something more to it. It wasn’t
getting better as soon as everyone had thought it would. That
was the frustrating thing, it was like, when is this going to
end?”  Surgery followed in October 2008, and she returned to the
tour in May 2009.  After her comeback, Sharapova was forced to change her
service technique to protect her shoulder, which occasionally
led to matches with double-digit double faults.  At the start of 2011, Sharapova left long-time coach
Michael Joyce to work with Swede Thomas Hogstedt, whom she
embraced on the court yesterday. She thanked Joyce in her on-
court speech for his support.  Superstar  Under Hogstedt’s guidance, Sharapova has become a much more
consistent player, reaching the semifinals in Paris last year as
well as runner-up spots at Wimbledon and  Melbourne .  Sharapova’s rise back to the top of tennis is seen as a
good thing for women’s tennis, which has been criticized for
lacking a strong leader. Four different women won the titles at
the major last year.  “She’s a superstar, and it’s always good if a superstar is
at the top,”  Martina Navratilova , who held all the majors at
the same time after winning the 1984 French Open, said in a news
conference. “Coming back from shoulder surgery where most
people would have called it a day, she stayed with it. I was
really impressed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net ; Danielle Rossingh at Roland Garros at
   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 