-- Gazprom Neft Said Likely to Pass on African Offshore Drilling
-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 2012-06-09T09:32:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-09/gazprom-neft-said-likely-to-pass-on-african-offshore-drilling.html
OAO Gazprom Neft, the oil arm of
 Russia ’s natural gas exporter, may opt against drilling in two
blocks off the West African coast after disappointing seismic
studies, according to company officials.  The offshore blocks in  Equatorial Guinea  probably don’t
contain commercial oil or gas reserves based on the research,
two people at the  St. Petersburg , Russia-based Gazprom Neft
said, declining to be identified because of confidentiality.  Dropping the African project would be a set back for the
company, which plans to almost double output to 100 million
metric tons of oil and gas a year in 2020, or 2 million barrels
a day, partly by expanding overseas. Gazprom Neft’s other
international offshore exploration project lies off Cuba, next
to where Spain’s  Repsol YPF SA (REP)  abandoned unsuccessful drilling.  Gazprom Neft, which agreed to explore and develop the
blocks with Equatorial Guinea, is considering whether or not to
go ahead with the opportunity, Chief Executive Officer Alexander Dyukov said yesterday at the company’s annual meeting.  Equatorial Guinea is a “high risk” opportunity, which
might provide 11.8 million tons of output a year at peak,
Gazprom Neft said in a presentation last year. Gazprom Neft and
Equatorial Guinea’s Oil Ministry plan to decide on drilling “in
the summer of 2012,” according to the company’s website.  Russian explorers have yet to repeat European companies’
success in the African offshore. OAO Lukoil, Russia’s largest
non-state oil producer, has failed to find commercial reserves
after drilling several wells off  Ghana  and the  Ivory Coast .  Gazprom Neft is drilling in the Cuba offshore in a venture
operated by Malaysia’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd., known as
Petronas. The Russian company holds 30 percent of the venture.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  