-- I’ll Have Another’s Triple Crown Dream Dashed by Retirement
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n   a n d   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-06-09T13:11:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-09/i-ll-have-another-s-triple-crown-hopes-dashed-with-retirement.html
I’ll Have Another’s unexpected
retirement ended the horse’s bid to become the first Triple
Crown winner since 1978 and dealt a financial blow to business
at the track, a television network and the colt’s ownership.  Workers at the Centerplate Styles merchandise store at
Belmont Park found out about the decision when a man who was
ready to buy $700 of clothing backed off the purchase. Carla
Ferreira, a cashier, said she was told some people were going
home or making other plans instead of staying for today’s race.  “This is a very big hit for business,” Ferreira said in
an interview. “Everyone came for the Triple Crown.”  The horse, which won the  Kentucky Derby  and  Preakness
Stakes , the first two races in the Triple Crown, had swelling in
his left front leg earlier this week, trainer Doug O’Neill said.
After looking “perfect” yesterday morning, the swelling
returned during a training session and a scan showed “the start
of some tendinitis,” the trainer said.  “We were all a bit shocked, but we have to do what’s best
for the horse,” J. Paul Reddam, the colt’s owner, said at a
news conference at Belmont Park in Elmont, New York. “And if he
can’t compete at the top level, he’s done enough.”  The end of I’ll Have Another’s Triple Crown bid might cost
Reddam more than $5 million in the horse’s value, according to
Baden P. “Buzz” Chace, a bloodstock agent who buys and sells
horses for clients.  O’Neill said the sudden turn of events on the track was
“far from tragic, but it is very disappointing.”  “Obviously, he’s done so much that it was unanimous
between the Reddams, my brother and I, and everyone in the barn
to retire him,” the trainer said at the news conference.  Sponsorship Difficult  The rapid switch from a shot at the sport’s top prize to
the end of I’ll Have Another’s career underscores how difficult
horse racing sponsorship can be, said Bob Dorfman of Baker
Street Advertising in  San Francisco .  “The fact that the horse has been scratched from the
Belmont -- the vagaries of the sport -- is yet another reason
why there are minimal endorsement opportunities for
thoroughbreds and their handlers,” Dorfman said.  I’ll Have Another was installed this week as the 4-5
morning-line favorite in the Belmont, where he was going to try
to become the first Triple Crown champion since Affirmed in
1978. Dullahan is now the 9-5 favorite, followed by Union Rags
at 3-1.  Dullahan, the third-place runner in the Derby last month,
had 5-1 odds before I’ll Have Another was scratched. Union Rags
originally had 6-1 odds. Post time is 6:40 p.m.  New York  time.  The last horse to win the Kentucky Derby and Preakness and
not start in the Belmont was Bold Venture in 1936. The horse was
pulled because he bowed a tendon during training at Belmont
Park.  120,000 Expected  The track had expected a crowd of 120,000 for today’s card.
The New York Racing Association settled a contract dispute with
union workers this week who had threatened to strike and
jeopardize the running of the 1 1/2-mile race.  “Hopefully they’ll still have a full house,” O’Neill said
in an interview on Dan Patrick’s radio show, where he broke the
news of the Belmont scratch. “I hope I’ll Have Another’s
defection doesn’t shrink that too much. I’m sure the NYRA people
probably want to slap me around a little, but I’ve just got to
do what’s in the best interest of the horse.”  Without I’ll Have Another, the race figures to draw fewer
viewers on NBC, which said it is “working now to adjust the
game plan accordingly.”  “The Belmont Stakes is still an iconic event on the sports
schedule, and the NBC Sports Group broadcasts will treat it as
such,” the  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  network said in an e-mailed statement.  Advance Wagers  NYRA Chairman C. Steven Duncker issued a statement
expressing his disappointment for everyone who wanted to see
I’ll Have Another run. Belmont Stakes Day’s 13 races will be run
as scheduled, therefore all tickets are non-refundable, the NYRA
said.  All advance wagers on the Belmont Stakes involving I’ll
Have Another can be canceled at any mutuel window, the NYRA
said.  Sports books in  Nevada  said the news would drastically cut
betting interest in the Belmont.  “It’ll be like booking the fifth race at Finger Lakes,”
Jimmy Vaccaro, the director of sports operations at Lucky’s Race
and Sports Book in  Las Vegas , said in a telephone interview.
“It’s truly sad. What we miss now is the people who wouldn’t be
horse bettors coming out to try to watch history.”  California Suspension  O’Neill is facing a 45-day suspension starting no sooner
than July 1 for a California racing violation. He was sanctioned
after excessive levels of total carbon dioxide were found in a
sample from Argenta, a filly who finished eighth in the sixth
race at Del Mar Racetrack on Aug. 25, 2010. Under California
rules, the trainer is accountable for ensuring a horse’s
condition.  The 3-year-old chestnut colt may have turned $35,000 into
$10 million for his owners with even more money spread around
the industry had he won the Belmont, Chace, the bloodstock
agent, said before I’ll Have Another was retired. The valuation
is closer to the lower end of $3 million to $5 million now,
Chace said yesterday.  “It was better he did not run if he wasn’t 100 percent,”
Chace said in a telephone interview. “If he had lost the
Belmont, it would have hurt him more had he gone to stud.”  Doug Cauthen, owner of Doug Cauthen Thoroughbred Management
LLC, said “he’s probably now a $4 to $6 million horse.”  Leftover Shirts  Eleven horses have won the Triple Crown, starting with Sir
Barton in 1919. The others are the father and son duo of Gallant
Fox and Omaha in 1930 and 1935, War Admiral (1937), Whirlaway
(1941), Count Fleet (1943), Assault (1946) Citation (1948),
Secretariat (1973), Seattle Slew (1977) and Affirmed.  Centerplate Styles was selling purple t-shirts that read
“I’ll Have Another, Racing Towards the Triple Crown” for $30.
They hung on a rack with other merchandise for today’s race.  “We have a whole box in the back,” Ferreira said of the
shirts. “Right now I don’t know what to do with them.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net ;
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  