-- Nobel Winner Mundell Sees Euro Survival, Financial Post Reports
-- B y   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r
-- 2012-06-09T17:10:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-09/nobel-winner-mundell-sees-euro-survival-financial-post-reports.html
Nobel Prize-winning economist  Robert Mundell  said the euro will survive economic upheaval in Europe
and defy critics, the Financial Post  reported .  “The euro -- barring a political revolution in Europe --
is here to stay,” Columbia University professor Mundell said in
an interview with the Canadian newspaper.  Spain may today move closer to becoming the fourth euro-
area nation to receive aid as European leaders hold talks in
 Madrid . A bailout for Spain, reeling from a recession and the
bursting of a property bubble, may dwarf previous rescues in the
effort to stem the turmoil that began with  Greece ’s disclosure
in 2009 that its finances were in worse shape than was
previously known.  “If the euro is a problem for  Europe , it’s because the
euro has been too strong, not too weak,” Mundell said. An exit
by Greece would strengthen, not weaken, the euro. “A currency
union is like an alliance -- shedding a small member with more
liabilities than assets can make the union stronger.”  The  European Central Bank , the European Financial Stability
Facility and the  International Monetary Fund  must assume
responsibility to help ailing countries and insure that fiscal
targets are met, Mundell said. Bailout recipients must also
relinquish control over their finances to the European Union.  “Bailouts have to be linked to some transfer of fiscal
authority from countries that have become insolvent to the
European Commission acting under the auspices, for
constitutional correctness, of the European Council,” Mundell
said.  “The euro is the glue that keeps the core of Europe
together,” Mundell said. “Never before has there been a
currency union that covers so large a share of the world economy
and that has grown so successfully and so rapidly within the
space of a decade and a half.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecile Gutscher in Toronto at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  