-- North Korea Says It’s Not Planning Nuke Test ‘At Present’
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n   a n d   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-06-10T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-09/north-korea-doesn-t-plan-nuclear-test-at-present-kcna-says-1-.html
North  Korea  said it isn’t planning
to test a nuclear weapon “at present,” releasing the denial on
the day a U.S. envoy arrived in  South Korea  to discuss tensions
on the Korean peninsula.  South Korea “seeks to rattle the nerves of the DPRK in a
bid to cause it to conduct a nuclear test, though such a thing
is not under plan at present,” an unidentified Foreign Ministry
spokesman said in a statement carried June 9 by the official
Korean Central News Agency. DPRK refers to North Korea’s
official name, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.  South Korea has no comment to make on the KCNA statement,
the Unification Ministry’s spokesman, Kim Hyung Suk, said
yesterday.  North Korea  needs to “show its sincerity through
dialogue and positive actions, not provocations,” he said.  The U.S., South Korea and  Japan  have expressed concern that
new North Korean leader Kim Jong Un may conduct a nuclear test
to reassert himself after he lost a U.S. food aid deal for
carrying out an unsuccessful firing of a long-range rocket on
April 13. Robert King, the U.S. special envoy for North Korean
human rights issues, who led the food aid negotiations, arrived
in Seoul June 9 for a seven-day visit to meet South Korea’s top
officials on security and the North Korean nuclear program.  North Korea first denied planning an atomic weapon test on
May 23, though satellite photos have since indicated preparation
activities at sites for a rocket launch and a nuclear test.  Food Aid  While the U.S. State Department welcomes the North Korean
statement as a sign of understanding, it isn’t considering
resuming food aid, Darragh Paradiso, a spokeswoman for the
Bureau of East Asian and Pacific Affairs, said in a written
statement.  “We want to assist the North Korean people, including by
providing nutritional assistance, but we cannot do so when we no
longer have confidence that the DPRK will follow through on its
implementation commitments to ensure that nutritional assistance
reaches those in need,” Paradiso said.  The February agreement would have provided 240,000 metric
tons of food to the impoverished nation suffering from the worst
drought in decades, in exchange for the suspension of missile
and nuclear tests.  With raised expectations for a nuclear test since the U.S.
canceled the food deal, North Korea may now be calculating that
any announcement of plans for a test would no longer be a useful
bargaining chip for economic concessions, said David Maxwell,
associate director of the Center for Security Studies at
 Georgetown University  in Washington.  “They might be trying to lull the international community
into thinking they’re not going to conduct a test until the
expectations die down,” Maxwell said in an interview.  Conflicting Signs  An April 9 South Korean intelligence report cited satellite
photographs of the Punggye-ri nuclear test site near North
Korea’s border with Russia and  China , showing excavation
consistent with preparations for an underground atomic device
detonation.  Construction began last summer and is in its early stages
for a new launch pad for firing larger rockets at the Musudan-ri
base in the country’s northeast, the U.S.-Korea Institute at
Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies in
Washington said on its website, citing satellite images taken
April 29.  Website Hacked  Joongang Ilbo’s website was hacked June 9 and police
investigations aren’t excluding the possibility of North Korean
involvement, the South Korean newspaper reported yesterday,
citing police. Last week, North Korea’s military threatened to
attack with “strategic rockets” seven South Korean media
outlets, including Joongang, for their “vicious smear
campaign” against Kim Jong Un.  Kim’s regime often issues threats of war, including the
April 26 statement that a special action squad will turn South
Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  and his government to “ashes.”  North Korea’s latest statement may be aimed at influencing
South Korea’s presidential election in December, said Jonathan Pollack, a senior fellow at the  Brookings Institution  in
Washington.  Any plan for a nuclear test now would weaken the chance of
South Koreans electing a progressive candidate who might seek
closer ties to North Korea, he said.  “That’s a political calculation they may be making,”
Pollack said in an interview.  “There’s been a very hedged quality in what North Korea
has been saying for a while now,” Pollack said. “It doesn’t
mean they’re going to preclude a test.”  With North Korea saying it has no plans “at present” to
conduct a test, Pollack said of the new statement, “There’s
wiggle room in it of a significant sort.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net ;
David Lerman in  Washington  at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  