-- Novo's Degludec Lowers Nocturnal Hypoglycemia Rates
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2012-06-09T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-09/novo-s-degludec-lowers-nocturnal-hypoglycemia-rates.html
An experimental insulin from  Novo
Nordisk A/S (NOVOB)  reduced the rate of dangerously low night-time blood
sugar levels more than  Sanofi (SAN) ’s Lantus, a late-stage study
showed.  The product, degludec, lowered nocturnal hypoglycemia by 36
percent compared with Lantus, the world’s best-selling insulin,
while obtaining equivalent improvement in blood sugar levels
over a year, according to a study by Bagsvaerd, Denmark-based
Novo that’s being presented today at the  American Diabetes
Association’s annual meeting  in Philadelphia.  The results are further proof that degludec is a better
product than Lantus, said Novo Chief Scientific Officer Mads Krogsgaard Thomsen. Paris-based Sanofi says Novo may have
designed its trials in a way that favors degludec, an assertion
the Danish company contests. The two companies are competing for
market share in long-acting insulins amid a global surge in the
number of diabetics.  “It’s an amazing set of data,” Thomsen said in a
telephone interview. “I have not found any weak spot with
degludec. There is no downside.”  Diabetes afflicts 366 million people, killing one every
seven seconds, according to estimates by the  International
Diabetes Federation . The number of people with the disease will
increase to 552 million by 2030, caused by an aging population
and lifestyle changes in poorer countries, the group says.  Novo’s older product, Levemir, has been trailing Lantus,
which last year generated sales of 3.92 billion euros ($4.9
billion). Levemir revenue totaled 7.68 billion kroner ($1.29
billion).  ‘Unpredictable, Difficult’  Hypoglycemia can cause unconsciousness, seizures and death,
according to the  National Institutes of Health .  Night-time hypoglycemia “is a particular challenge for
people living with diabetes, as these episodes are often
unpredictable and difficult to detect,” Bernard Zinman, lead
author of the study and director of the  diabetes center at Mount
Sinai Hospital  in Toronto, said in an e-mailed statement.  Today’s results replicate the findings of two previous
studies comparing degludec with insulin glargine, the chemical
name for Lantus, Thomsen said. They also show that degludec
leads to “significantly” lower rates of severe hypoglycemia
compared to Lantus, Novo said.  Both medicines were administered once a day to 1,030
patients with  Type 2 diabetes , the most common form of the
disease, who hadn’t previously been treated with insulin,
according to the statement.  Extended Review  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  extended the review
period for degludec by three months after requesting “further
data clarification and analyses,” but no additional clinical
trials, Novo said yesterday, without being more specific. The
FDA is now scheduled to make a decision on the treatment by Oct.
29 instead of July 29, Novo said.  We “have a very robust dataset” for degludec and “we’ve
had a very constructive dialogue” with the FDA, Thomsen said.  Novo submitted degludec for approval in the U.S. and  Europe 
in September. It’s also seeking regulatory approval in  Japan ,
 Canada ,  Switzerland  and other countries.  Diabetes, caused by a lack of insulin needed to convert
blood sugar into energy, can lead to kidney damage, blindness,
heart problems and death if left untreated.  Long-acting insulins such as Lantus seek to replicate the
steady stream of the hormone that healthy people produce over 24
hours. Degludec has a longer duration of action than Lantus and
can be dosed in a more flexible way, according to Novo.  Sanofi’s View  Sanofi has been contesting Novo’s findings on Lantus
nocturnal hypoglycemia rates, saying they were influenced by
Novo’s trial design.  “Lantus’s scientific records do not support the numbers
presented in a comparative way” by Novo Nordisk, Riccardo
Perfetti, vice president for medical affairs at Sanofi Diabetes,
said in a June 8 telephone interview. The different time of
administration of the two insulins might have artificially
induced hypoglycemia in Lantus users, he said.  Sanofi’s assertion of a supposedly unfair trial design is
“absolutely incorrect,” Thomsen said during the interview.  Degludec is the most immediate threat for Lantus, according
to  Tim Anderson , an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein in  New
York .  “Despite degludec being slightly better, patients and
prescribers are generally happy with Lantus and most existing,
well-controlled Lantus users are likely to remain on the
product,” the analyst wrote in a May 29 note to investors.  “Where Lantus will begin to lose share more quickly is
with ‘new patient starts,’ which will lead to market share
losses gradually over time,” Anderson wrote.  Novo Nordisk plans to market degludec under the name
Tresiba.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  