-- Obama Battles Romney Over Who Is Most in Touch on Economy
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-06-09T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-09/obama-battles-romney-over-who-is-most-in-touch-on-economy.html
President  Barack Obama  said it is
“absolutely clear that the economy is not doing fine,” seeking
to contain criticism from Mitt Romney that his upbeat remarks
about the U.S. private sector show he is out of touch.  Democrats and organized labor, in turn, faulted Romney for
questioning Obama’s call to hire more police and firemen, after
Romney said that “it’s time for us to cut back on government
and help the American people.”  The back-and-forth yesterday capped a week of economic and
political developments that put the Obama administration on the
defensive and dealt a blow to the president’s re-election bid.
These included a June 1 report showing the U.S. unemployment
rate increased in May, and the failure of Democrats and unions
in a recall vote against Republican Governor  Scott Walker  in
Wisconsin, a state Obama’s campaign is counting on in the
November election.  Obama’s clarification came after Romney, the presumptive
Republican presidential nominee, and other Republicans
criticized comments the president made at a White House news
conference that they said showed Obama doesn’t understand the
state of the  U.S. economy .  “The truth of the matter is that, as I said, we’ve created
4.3 million jobs over the last 27 months, over 800,000 just this
year alone,” Obama said at the news conference. “The private
sector is doing fine.”  Romney Criticism  Jobs in the U.S. grew by 69,000 in May, the fewest in a
year and less than the most pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey of private economists. The  unemployment rate 
increased to 8.2 percent last month from 8.1 percent in April,
the first rise since June 2011.  Romney told Iowa voters that Obama is “defining what it
means to be detached and out of touch with the American
people.” He also questioned Obama’s calls for additional
federal spending to boost job growth.  “He wants to hire more government workers,” Romney said.
“He says we need more fireman, more policeman, more teachers.
Did he not get the message of Wisconsin? The American people
did.”  Ken Sagar, president of the Iowa AFL-CIO, said it was “no
surprise that Mitt Romney, Mr. 1 percent himself, is going after
firefighters, police, teachers and ordinary Americans.”  Sagar said Romney is “totally out of touch with working-
class Americans,” according to a statement circulated by the
 Democratic National Committee .  2008 Moment  The  Republican National Committee  rushed out a Web ad that
featured a video clip of Obama saying “the private sector’s
doing fine” followed by text posing the question, “How can
President Obama fix our economy if he doesn’t understand what’s
broken?”  The exchanges recalled a moment in the 2008 campaign. The
Republican nominee,  Arizona  Senator  John McCain , said “the
fundamentals of our economy are strong” on Sept. 15 after the
bankruptcy filing of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. as the
financial crisis intensified. At the time, Obama’s campaign
derided McCain as “out of touch.”  “I’m sure Democratic speechwriters, their stomachs were
turning,” independent political analyst Stu Rothenberg said.  Steve Elmendorf , a Democratic strategist who served as a
deputy campaign manager for Democrat John Kerry’s 2004
presidential campaign, said, while Republicans would try to get
mileage out of the comment, Obama’s analysis was accurate.  “Look, the economy’s doing better than when he started out
being president,” he said. “He made it pretty clear he’s not
satisfied with where things are and things need to improve.”  Republican Opening  Republicans saw an opening in the president’s remarks.  “I think it’s a pretty devastating mistake,” said Rob Stutzman, a Sacramento, California-based Republican political
consultant. He compared it with McCain’s 2008 remarks, which
were widely seen as a significant blow to his election chances.  “This is the day that he really lost his grip on his re-
election,” Stutzman said of Obama.  “As John McCain learned, you can’t put toothpaste back in
the tube,” said  Dan Schnur , a former McCain aide who is now the
director of the Jesse M. Unruh Institute of Politics at the
University of  Southern California . It may not matter in the
long-term, he said.  “But in the short term it’s not an ideal way to end up a
less than ideal week,” Schnur said.  House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  of Virginia said at a
news conference, “My question would be to the president, ’Are
you kidding?’”  ‘Little Attention’  Robert Dallek , a retired professor of presidential history
at  Boston University , said the timing may matter more than the
actual remarks.  “At this point in the election cycle people are paying
very, very little attention,” he said. “There will be so many
other things on the front page and something will come along
tomorrow that will just push this to farthest reaches of people
minds.”  Romney used Obama’s statement to reinforce his line of
attack against the president.  “Is he really that out of touch? I think he’s defining
what it means to be detached and out of touch with the American
people,” Romney said at a campaign event in Council Bluffs,
 Iowa . “Has there ever been an American president who is so far
from reality?”  Following Romney’s jab, Obama told reporters gathered in
the Oval Office, where he held an afternoon meeting with
Philippine President  Benigno Aquino , “Listen, it is absolutely
clear that the economy is not doing fine. That’s the reason I
had the press conference.”  ‘Good Momentum’  While there has been “some good momentum” in the private
sector, he said, “there are too many people out of work, the
housing market is still weak and too many homes underwater.”  Obama said Romney and Republicans in Congress haven’t
offered proposals to spur growth.  “What I’m interested in hearing from Congress and Mr.
Romney is, what steps are they willing to take right now that
are going to make an actual difference?” Obama said after the
meeting with Aquino.  Obama’s campaign accused Romney of trying to “talk down”
the U.S. economy.  “Iowans got today what they’ve come to expect from  Mitt
Romney : angry, dishonest rhetoric about President Obama and zero
new solutions to grow the economy and strengthen the middle
class,” Obama re-election spokeswoman Lis Smith said in a
statement.  Iowa’s Importance  Romney visited Iowa less than a month ago, on May 16, and
its place on his schedule signals his interest in trying to take
the state from Obama’s column this year.  An NBC News-Marist  poll  released May 31 showed Obama and
Romney tied in Iowa, each with support from 44 percent of
registered voters, figures that include those who are undecided
yet leaning toward one of the candidates. Eliminating the
leaners, 10 percent of voters in the state are undecided, the
poll showed.  The campaign for Iowa’s electoral votes will play out in a
state with a better economic environment than the national
picture. The state’s  jobless rate  in April was 5.1 percent,
below the current national average of 8.2 percent and down from
6.3 percent in November 2010.  After his Iowa stop, Romney was scheduled to appear in  Salt
Lake City  with Republican Senator  Orrin Hatch  of Utah, who faces
a primary race on June 26, and attend a fundraiser there. He is
taking the weekend off from the campaign trail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  