-- Obama Aides Helped Plan Ads to Back Health Bill, GOP Says
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-06-09T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-09/obama-aides-helped-plan-ads-to-back-health-bill-gop-says.html
House Republicans  say a drugmaker-
funded advertising campaign run by supposedly independent groups
was part of an agreement with the Obama administration to help
pass the U.S. health-care law in 2010.  Republicans are using e-mails and memos to agitate against
the overhaul ahead of a U.S. Supreme Court decision on the law’s
constitutionality, due later this month. The correspondence
involved White House aides, drugmaker lobbyists and Democratic
strategists as they built support for the law.  The documents, released on May 31 and  yesterday , suggest
presidential aides helped plan a $150 million advertising
campaign paid for by the  drug industry . The advertisers were
seemingly independent groups created by the lobbyists in
consultation with strategists linked to the administration, the
memos suggest. The organizations were called Healthy Economy Now
and Americans for Stable Quality Care.  The memos “show that the White House traded billions of
dollars in policy concessions to PhRMA for millions of dollars
worth of advertising,” said House Speaker  John Boehner , a
Republican from  Ohio . PhRMA is the  Pharmaceutical Research and
Manufacturers of America , the industry’s Washington lobby group.  The accusations are “baseless” and “politically
driven,” wrote  Eric Schultz , a White House spokesman, in an e-
mail. “Republicans, who previously admitted this is not serious
and merely a partisan effort to distract the President’s re-
election campaign, are now attempting to recycle an old story
that was well covered during the original debate.”  Importation Issue  The drug industry agreed to $80 billion to $125 billion in
taxes, discounts and other concessions to help fund the health
law’s programs during the run-up to approval in March 2010. They
avoided potentially harmful policies, including one that would
have allowed importation of cheaper brand-name drugs, an issue
PhRMA lobbyists discussed at length with the Administration,
according to the memos released last month.  At a news conference yesterday in  Washington , Boehner
called the groups created by the lobbyists to run the ad
campaign “a Super PAC paid for by PhRMA, and run by  Jim Messina 
out of the West Wing of the White House.  ‘‘This is wrong and the administration must be held
accountable for their actions,’’ Boehner said.  At the time of the e-mails, Messina was an aide to then-
White House Chief of Staff Rahm Emanuel. He now manages Obama’s
re-election campaign. The health-care law was passed without a
single Republican vote.  ‘Financial Support’  According to documents released last month, PhRMA agreed to
help back at least three different advertising and advocacy
groups that pushed for health-care reform. A PhRMA memo released
yesterday described the group called Health Economy Now, and
said that under an agreement ‘‘the industry provides the
majority of financial support for positive TV ads advocating
passage of health reform.’’  Representative Joe Pitts, a Republican from  Pennsylvania 
who sits on the committee, said the Obama administration was
hypocritical for using the outside groups to help back the law.  ‘‘The president has publicly condemned corporations funding
advertisements through ‘innocuous-sounding’ third party groups,
but he was more than happy to privately cut a deal with big drug
companies to help push his health care bill,’’ Pitts said.  Republicans have also benefited from spending by outside
groups on the law. While the Obama administration was working to
arrange industry backing, health insurers opposed to the
overhaul secretly funneled $86.2 million to the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce to run ads attacking the law and its supporters.  Investigation Focus  Bloomberg News reported in May that House Republicans
planned to focus their investigation, begun last year, on the
drug industry and its dealings with Democrats. The latest
documents support a campaign linking the administration to a
‘‘secret deal’’ with the industry, Pitts said in a statement.  The documents include references to actions by drug
industry lobbyists, former pharmaceutical chief executive
officers including Jeffrey Kindler of New York-based  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) 
and  David Brennan  of London-based  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) , and top White
House staff.  In the documents released today, Democratic consultants
working with the White House asked to meet supporters of the law
‘‘to discuss our ad campaign,’’  Ron Pollack , executive director
of the Washington-based consumer group Families USA, said in a
June 2009 e-mail to PhRMA lobbyists.  ‘‘As I mentioned previously, I wanted to get some guidance
from the White House about their messaging and how our effort
can be consistent with that,’’ Pollack wrote.  ‘Potential Problem’  That appearance of a deal concerned drug industry lobbyists
and communications strategists in 2009, as the law was being
debated, according to the memos. In July of that year, Bloomberg
News was preparing to run a story outlining the link between the
Democrat-run firms and the industry, causing  Ken Johnson , a
PhRMA spokesman, to e-mail the group on a ‘‘potential problem.’’  ‘‘Bloomberg is getting ready to report that ‘political
consultants’ close to the White House -- more specifically close
to  Rahm Emanuel  -- will be running our $100 million-plus
campaign,’’ Johnson wrote to the lobbyists.  The Republicans on the committee have said they’re pursuing
whether Democrats were promised political support from
drugmakers in exchange for limiting what the industry would be
asked to contribute under the health-care overhaul, Bloomberg
News reported last month, citing people familiar with the talks
who asked not to be identified because they were private.  Matt Bennett , a PhRMA spokesman, said his group did nothing
wrong.  ‘‘Before, during, and after the health-care debate, PhRMA
engaged in policy discussions,’’ he said in a telephone
interview. ‘‘I can’t speak to the actions or decisions made by
anyone in the White House.’’  Obama’s $1 trillion, 10-year law to overhaul the health
system expands expanding insurance coverage to most Americans.
It has been challenged as unconstitutional by 26 states, and the
 Supreme Court  is slated to rule on the issue by the end of June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  