-- Treasury Yields Climb Most in 3 Months on Europe Outlook
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-06-09T04:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-09/treasury-yields-climb-most-in-3-months-on-europe-outlook.html
Treasury yields had the biggest
weekly increase in almost three months as bets European leaders
may make progress stemming their debt crisis damped haven demand
and the U.S. prepared to sell $66 billion of notes and bonds.  U.S. bond yields climbed amid reduced volume after tumbling
to record lows on June 1. European officials were awaiting a
request for aid to shore up Spanish banks, European Central Bank
Vice President  Vitor Constancio  said yesterday. Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on June 7 the U.S. has options for
further monetary easing.  “There has been cautious optimism that Europe is ready to
get their act together,” said Larry Milstein, managing director
in New York of government and agency debt trading at R.W.
Pressprich & Co., a fixed-income broker and dealer for
institutional investors. “And the market still has supply to
deal with. Still, policy makers seem to only act when they are
at the edge of a cliff.”  The  30-year bond  yield increased 23 basis points, or 0.23
percentage point, to 2.75 percent yesterday in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices, from 2.52 percent on
June 1. It was the biggest jump since the five days ended March
16. The 3 percent security due in May 2042 slid 4 7/8, or $48.75
per $1,000 face amount, to 105 5/32.  Ten-year note  yields increased 18 basis points, also the
most since March 16, to 1.64 percent.  Volume Drops  Trading volume shrank. About $227 billion of Treasuries
 changed hands  this week through ICAP Plc, the world’s largest
interdealer broker. It was a 36 percent drop, the most since the
five days ended May 25. Volume surged 148 percent last week to
$351 billion.  Ten- and 30-year yields reached the lowest ever, 1.4387
percent and 2.5089 percent, on June 1 as government data showed
U.S. job growth trailed estimates and concern festered  Europe ’s
debt crisis would worsen. They touched 2012 highs in March, 3.49
percent for the long bond and 2.4 percent for the 10-year note.  Treasuries have returned 2.99 percent this quarter,
compared with a 2 percent gain by sovereign debt of all Group of
Seven nations, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes showed.  A valuation measure showed U.S. government bonds were at
almost the most expensive level ever. The term premium, a model
created by economists at the Fed, was at negative 0.83 percent
yesterday after reaching negative 0.94 percent, the record, a
week earlier. The average over the past year is negative 0.44. A
negative reading indicates investors are willing to accept
yields below what’s considered fair value.  Aid Package  European finance ministers will discuss this weekend a
possible aid package for  Spain , according to an official who
declined to be identified because the matter is confidential.
Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  have received international
bailouts.  Fitch Ratings downgraded Spain by three levels to BBB on
June 7, taking the rating to two steps off non-investment grade.
The cost to the state of shoring up banks may amount to as much
as 100 billion euros ($125 billion), compared with its previous
estimate of 30 billion euros, Fitch said.  Spain’s 10-year bond yield climbed as much as 18 basis
points yesterday to 6.27 percent. Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy 
said for the first time he’s discussing with European leaders
how to help Spanish banks.  “There remains a fair amount of uncertainty in the air,
and asset markets have been fairly disappointed about the lack
of commitment from Bernanke with respect to additional imminent
easing,”  Christopher Sullivan , who oversees $1.9 billion as
chief investment officer at United Nations Federal Credit Union
in  New York , said yesterday. “Any backup in yield will be met
with buying until something changes with regards to the global
growth picture and Europe.”  ECB Ready  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said on June 6 policy makers
were “ready to act,” after leaving their benchmark  interest rate 
at a record low 1 percent.  While the 10-year note has climbed amid the  European debt
crisis  and concern U.S. economic growth is faltering, its yield
is only about 10 basis points rich to fair value given the
negative performance of other markets, including equities and
commodities, according to Credit Suisse Group AG, one of the 21
primary dealers that trade with the Fed.  “The outlook and corresponding behavior within other
markets has been so dramatic that even while rates have rallied,
they have in some senses moved from rich to closer to the fair-
value yield,” analysts at the firm, including Eric Van Nostrand
in New York, wrote in a report June 7. “Looking at prior
richening trends, there appears to still be scope for Treasury
yields to make a move lower should the Fed decide to ease
further.”  Further Drop  U.S. 10-year note yields will drop to match those on
Japanese  government bonds , about 0.8 percent, according to the
investor at Mizuho Asset Management Co. who predicted the rally
in Treasuries that began in 2010.  Prospects for deflation and additional monetary easing by
central banks will push the U.S. yield to its Japanese peer’s
level at year-end, said Akira Takei, head of the international
fixed-income department for Mizuho Asset, a unit of  Japan ’s
third-biggest listed bank. He spoke in an interview.  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators decreased
their net-short position in 10-year note futures in the week
ending June 5, according to U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data.  Speculative short positions, or bets prices will fall,
outnumbered long positions by 37,892 contracts on the Chicago
Board of Trade. Net-short positions fell by 43,186 contracts, or
53 percent, from a week earlier, the Washington-based commission
 said  in its Commitments of Traders report.  Treasury Auction  The U.S. will auction next week $32 billion of three-year
notes, $21 billion of 10-year securities and $13 billion of 30-
year bonds. The three sales start June 12.  Bernanke said June 7 the European debt crisis “poses
significant risks to the U.S. financial system and economy and
must be monitored closely.” Speaking to Congress’s Joint
Economic Committee in  Washington , he refrained from discussing
steps the Fed might take to protect U.S. growth.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  opens a two-day policy
meeting on June 19. It has kept its key  interest rate  at zero to
0.25 percent since December 2008 and bought $23.3 trillion of
debt in two rounds of quantitative easing from 2008 to 2011.  Yields indicate investors expect inflation to hold in check
in the U.S., providing Bernanke the room for further stimulus.  Inflation Bets  The  difference  in yields between 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, which represents traders’
expectations for inflation over the life of the debt, was 2.14
percentage points, down from this year’s high of 2.45 percentage
points in March. The average over the past decade is 2.15
percentage points.  Growth in the U.S. consumer price index slowed to 1.8
percent last month from a year earlier after rising 2.3 percent
in April, economists in a Bloomberg News survey forecast before
the Labor Department reports the data on June 14.  Political and fiscal risks may lead to another downgrade of
the U.S.’s credit rating by 2014 by  Standard & Poor’s , which
affirmed yesterday its negative outlook on the nation’s debt.  S&P stripped the U.S. of its top AAA ranking on Aug. 5,
cutting it to AA+ while criticizing the nation’s political
process and saying spending cuts agreed on by lawmakers wouldn’t
be enough to reduce record deficits. Treasuries surged after the
move, and while Moody’s Investors Service and  Fitch Ratings  have
kept their top grades on the U.S., both have a negative outlook.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 Ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  