-- Regling Says Europe Rescue Fund Offers No ‘Free Lunch’
-- B y   K a s p e r   V i i t a
-- 2012-06-09T12:36:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-09/regling-says-europe-rescue-fund-offers-no-free-lunch-.html
Assistance from  Europe ’s bailout
funds isn’t a “free lunch” for any country, said Klaus Regling, chief executive officer of Europe’s temporary rescue
fund.  “All new instruments are linked to appropriate
conditions,” Regling, who heads the Luxembourg-based European
Financial Stability Facility, said in a speech in Kokkola,
Finland today. “There’s no free lunch for any beneficiary
country.”  Europe, using its rescue funds, has the capacity to offer
financial help “through precautionary credit lines, before
problems hit the markets,” Regling said.  Spain  may today move closer to becoming the fourth euro-
area nation to receive aid, as the  International Monetary Fund 
said the country’s banks need at least 37 billion euros ($46
billion) to bear a weaker economy. The yield on 10-year Spanish
sovereign debt has risen to 6.22 percent, near the levels at
which Greece, Ireland and Portugal asked for international
assistance after being shut out from market funding.  Euro-area finance ministers will hold a conference call
today at 4 p.m. central European time, two European officials
said. Regling declined to comment on Spain’s possible aid
request.  Resisting Pressure  Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  is resisting pressure
from European officials to accelerate any request for help as
Greek elections loom and Spain’s access to markets narrows. He
said June 7 he won’t take any decisions about how to shore up
lenders until seeing the results of the IMF analysis and similar
tests by two international consultants due this month.  Spain’s government and European Commission President  Jose Barroso  have proposed using the permanent rescue fund, the
European Stability Mechanism, to recapitalize Spanish banks
directly to avoid burdening the state’s balance sheet with more
debt.  Germany  and Finland oppose the plan, which isn’t possible
under the ESM rules currently being ratified by  member states .  “It’s important that no aid is given directly to a
country’s banks,” Finnish Finance Minister Jutta Urpilainen
said in a speech. “Aid should go through the government.”  Urpilainen gave the speech in her home town of Kokkola, at
the same seminar where Regling also spoke. The town of 46,000 is
on  Finland ’s west coast, 480 kilometers (300 miles) from the
capital Helsinki.  Of the euro area’s 17 members, Finland, Germany, Luxembourg
and the Netherlands have top AAA rating on their debt. The other
countries in the monetary union are Austria, Belgium, Cyprus,
 Estonia , France, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Malta, Portugal,
Slovakia, Slovenia and Spain.  “Europe’s bank crisis is hampering the movement of
money,” Urpilainen said. “The condition of banks must be
assessed in a transparent and candid way and the crisis handled
with determination and strict terms.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasper Viita in Helsinki at 
 kviita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  