-- Russia Says Syrian Conference Needed to Escape Civil War
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-06-09T21:45:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-09/russia-says-syrian-conference-urgently-needed-as-civil-war-looms.html
Syria is sliding toward full-scale
civil war, reinforcing the “urgent” need for an international
conference to pressure both sides of the conflict, Russian
Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  said.  “You have to force them to sit down at the negotiating
table after first halting the violence,” Lavrov told reporters
in Moscow yesterday. “That’s the point of this conference.”  International efforts are failing to halt intensifying
violence as the 15-month uprising against President Bashar al- Assad’s government deteriorates into sectarian violence.  Fighting intensified yesterday in Damascus, with rebels
firing a rocket-propelled grenade at a local power plant, the
 Associated Press  reported, citing United Nations observers. At
least 42 civilians were killed yesterday in Syria outside
Damascus, AP said, citing the Syrian Observatory for Human
Rights, a U.K.-based activist group.  Russia and  China  on June 6 proposed a meeting to back
efforts by  Kofi Annan , the United Nations-Arab League special
envoy, to broker a peaceful settlement.  Iran  should be invited
to attend the conference, alongside the five permanent members
of the UN Security Council, the European Union and Arab League
states including Syrian neighbors Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon and
 Turkey , Lavrov said.  The U.S. hasn’t signaled its opposition to the proposed
conference while criticizing the inclusion of Iran, Lavrov said,
urging President  Barack Obama ’s administration to show
“pragmatism” by allowing the Persian Gulf state to take part.  Iran’s Influence  Iran can exert influence over Assad’s government as a
regional ally, according to Lavrov. The initiative was
previously rejected by U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton ,
who expressed doubts that Iran would play a constructive role.
Iran, whose Shiite rulers have close ties to Assad’s minority
Alawite regime, is the Syrian government’s strongest backer
along with  Russia  and China.  Fred Hof, the State Department’s special envoy to the
Syrian opposition, and the U.S. ambassador to Russia,  Michael McFaul , met June 8 with two Russian deputy foreign ministers,
Mikhail Bogdanov and Gennady Gatilov.  The former Cold War foes are at odds over U.S. and western
efforts to oust Assad, a Russian ally. Lavrov said his country
would back Assad’s resignation if it isn’t imposed from the
outside and follows an agreement reached by Syrians themselves.  Russia hasn’t been supplying small arms or any weapons to
Assad that can be used against Syria’s civilian population since
the conflict started and will halt all weapons shipments after
completing previously signed contracts to deliver air-defense
systems, Lavrov said.  Repression, Massacres  Annan warned at the UN on June 7 that Syria was headed
toward a future of “brutal repression, massacres, sectarian
violence and even all-out civil war.” Privately, he told the
15-member  Security Council  that his efforts to bring about peace
can’t be open-ended and international consultations must yield
results, according to diplomats who were present and described
the remarks on condition of anonymity.  UN observers found evidence last week of atrocities in the
village of Mazraat al-Qubair, where as many as 78 people were
killed, according to opposition activists. More than half of
those killed in the village in Hama province were women and
children, with some dying during army shelling and others burned
or stabbed by pro-government shabiha militiamen who arrived an
hour later, the opposition Syrian National Council said June 7
in a statement on Facebook. Syrian state television denied that
and blamed “terrorists” for any atrocities.  Houla Massacre  The Qubair attack follows the massacre of 108 people,
including 49 children, in Houla May 25 in one of the worst
atrocities of the uprising against Assad’s government.  Syria 
also denied responsibility for the Houla killings, accusing
rebel fighters of carrying them out to cause the collapse of
Annan’s plan.  Russia sees no grounds for revising its stance on the
Syrian conflict, Lavrov said, reiterating the country’s
opposition to any military intervention or efforts to impose
sanctions on Syria’s government.  “The consequences will be unpredictable and will affect a
large number of countries in the region,” Lavrov said. “It
will lead to a split inside the Muslim world of Sunnis and
Shiites. That scenario is quite likely if we don’t take
coordinated action to get all the Syrian sides together.”  Lavrov also said a bus carrying Russian nationals working
in Syria came under fire yesterday in Damascus, Assad’s
stronghold, and a grenade attack on a building where Russians
live took place the day before. There were no injuries, he said.  At least 20 people were killed by pre-dawn shelling in the
southern city of Daraa, AP reported, citing activists. The
slain, including women and children, were given a mass funeral
yesterday attended by tens of thousands of Daraa residents, AP
said, citing video of the scene.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  