-- Saudi Arabian Shares Advance on Bets Drop Overdone; Oil Climbs
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2012-06-09T11:10:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-09/saudi-arabian-shares-advance-on-bets-drop-overdone-oil-climbs.html
Shares rose in Saudi Arabia, OPEC’s
biggest oil producer, as crude posted its first weekly jump
since April and investors bet declines prompted by Europe’s debt
crisis were overdone.  Al Rajhi Bank (RJHI) , the kingdom’s largest lender by market
value, rose 1.4 percent, while  Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) , the
world’s biggest petrochemical maker, known as Sabic, gained 0.8
percent. The  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  rose as much as 1.4 percent
before trading up 0.3 percent at 6,683.76 as of 2:06 p.m. in
Riyadh. The gauge lost 4.5 percent last week, its fifth weekly
slide.  “Investors realize that the measure’s drop was
exaggerated, so the market is correcting itself,” said Riyadh-
based Turki Fadaak, head of research at Albilad Investment Co.
“The measure was falling because of what’s happening in Europe,
not because of anything fundamental in Saudi Arabia.”  Oil rose 1.1 percent last week to $84.10 a barrel in New
York on June 8, the first five-day gain since the week ending
April 27. Oil prices have fallen about 15 percent in 2012. Gulf
Arab oil exporters, including the  Saudi Arabia  and the United
Arab Emirates, supply about a fifth of the world’s oil.  The  European Central Bank ’s pledge to add more stimulus if
the economy worsens and Federal Reserve Vice Chairman Janet Yellen’s comments on considering another round of asset
purchases are also bolstering the market, Fadaak said.  Al Rajhi shares rose to 72 riyals, while Sabic’s shares
gained to 90.75 riyals. Saudi Arabia’s stock exchange is the
only Persian Gulf bourse operating on Saturdays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  