-- Spain Seeks $125 Billion Bailout as Bank Crisis Worsens
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s ,   C h a r l e s   P e n t y   a n d   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-06-09T18:21:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-09/spain-seeks-125-billion-bailout-as-bank-crisis-worsens.html
Spain  asked euro region governments
for a bailout worth as much as 100 billion euros ($125 billion)
to rescue its banking system as the country became the biggest
euro economy so far to seek international aid.  “The Spanish government declares its intention of seeking
European financing for the recapitalization of the Spanish banks
that need it,” Spanish Economy Minister Luis de Guindos told
reporters in  Madrid  today. A statement by euro region finance
ministers said the loan amount will “cover estimated  capital
requirements  with an additional safety margin.”  Just seven months after winning a landslide victory, Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy  was forced to abandon his bid to
recapitalize Spanish banks without recourse to external help as
a deepening  recession  forced lenders to recognize spiraling
losses. Today’s move means Spain has a firewall in case the
Greek election on June 17 unleashes a fresh round of market
turmoil.  De Guindos said the terms of the rescue loan are “very
favorable” compared with market rates and the funds will be
channelled through Spain’s FROB bank fund. Banks getting aid
will have to meet conditions, he said. The  International
Monetary Fund  will only have an advisory role, he said.  The eurogroup statement said that the formal request will
come “shortly.” An assessment will then be provided by the
European Commission, which will liaise with the European Central
Bank, the European Banking Authority and the IMF. There will
also be a proposal for “the necessary policy conditionality”
that will accompany the assistance.  Aid Pressure  European officials have failed to get their arms around a
debt crisis that started in  Greece  at the end of 2009 and has
now claimed the euro region’s fourth-largest economy. The
bailout adds to the 386 billion euros ($480 billion) in pledges
to Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  that European governments and
the IMF have made since 2010.  Spanish officials faced increasing pressure to seek aid
over the past week as European leaders race to put measures in
place should next week’s Greek election increases the chances
that the country will leave the euro.  European Central Bank 
Governing Council member Ewald Nowotny said yesterday that any
delay by in requesting aid would increase the costs of a rescue.  “The longer you wait with revamp measures, the more
expensive it gets,” Nowotny said.  Funding Hole  Spanish borrowing costs have jumped since March and last
week rose close to the euro-year high of 6.78 percent. The yield
on the country’s 10-year bond has since slipped amid optimism
that Rajoy would seek a bailout and was at 6.17 percent
yesterday.  The Spanish government’s credibility was jolted by the
funding hole reported last month by Bankia group, the third-
biggest Spanish lender. The bank’s new managers went beyond the
government’s provisioning rules and asked for a 19 billion-euro
bailout. Economy Minister Luis de Guindos had said two weeks
earlier that 15 billion euros would be enough to meet the
requirements of the second of two banking decrees he has drafted
this year.  Fitch Ratings  downgraded Spain to BBB, within two steps of
non-investment grade, on June 7 and said the cost to the state
of shoring up banks may amount to as much as 100 billion euros
in the worst case, compared with its previous estimate of 30
billion euros.  “The Spanish problem was entirely avoidable,” said  Thomas Mayer , an economic adviser to Deutsche Bank AG in  Frankfurt .
“When Bankia got into trouble and they had to inject another 19
billion, the market thought, well, they don’t know what they are
doing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at   bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  