-- Spain Seeks EU’s Fourth Bailout With $125 Billion Request
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y ,   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-06-10T12:32:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-09/spain-seeks-eu-s-fourth-bailout-with-125-billion-request.html
Spain  became the fourth euro member
to seek a bailout since the start of the region’s debt crisis
more than two years ago with a request for as much as 100
billion euros ($125 billion) to rescue its banks.  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy , who as recently as May 28
said he wouldn’t seek a bailout, characterized the deal as a
credit line for banks and an endorsement of his policies. He
spoke to reporters today in  Madrid  before flying to Gdansk,
Poland, for a soccer match between the national team and Italy.  “The 100 billion euros is the number that we were looking
for so I’m cautiously optimistic,” Olly Burrows, credit analyst
at Rabobank International, said in a telephone interview from
 London . “We still have to find a solution to the sovereign debt
crisis: it’s not done yet and we still have to press on with the
task of uniting  Europe .”  Just seven months after winning a landslide victory,Rajoy
was forced to abandon his bid to recapitalize Spanish banks
without external help as the Treasury’s access to  capital
markets  narrowed. Foreign investors slashed their holdings of
Spanish debt amid concern banks’ bad loans may overwhelm public
finances, driving borrowing costs to near euro-era records.  Debt Burden  Yesterday’s move means Spain has a firewall in case the
Greek election on June 17 unleashes a fresh round of market
turmoil. Spain’s bonds have slumped since the government
announced the nationalization of Bankia Group last month,
sending the yield on 10-year notes close to the euro-era high of
6.78 percent on May 30. It closed at 6.22 percent on June 8.  Economy Minister Luis De Guindos, who denied he had
received pressure from European colleagues, announced the
request yesterday after a three-hour conference call with his
European counterparts. He said the terms of the rescue loans are
“very favorable” compared with market rates.  The funds will be channeled through the state-run FROB
bank-rescue fund, and will add to Spain’s debt, which was 68.5
percent of gross domestic product last year. Should Spain
request the maximum amount, it would add about 10 percentage
points to that number. De Guindos said interest paid on the
loans will affect the deficit, which is the euro-area’s third-
largest at 8.9 percent of GDP.  Credit Line  Rajoy told reporters it wouldn’t affect the deficit and
said Spain pushed for the 100 billion-euro ceiling on the credit
line as a buffer to restore market confidence. He stuck to his
plans to travel to the European soccer championships in  Poland ,
“now that the situation is resolved.”  “If we hadn’t done what we’ve done in the past five
months, the intervention of the Kingdom of Spain would have been
on the table yesterday,” Rajoy said. “As we have been doing
our homework for five months what was agreed yesterday was the
opening of a credit line for our financial system.”  De Guindos and Rajoy said conditions on the loans will be
tied to the banks and the rescue doesn’t change economic or
fiscal policy. Still, the Spanish government is responsible for
the loan, and progress on reforms and budget cuts “will be
closely and regularly reviewed also in parallel with the
financial assistance,” the finance ministers’ statement said.  Fourth Economy  The loans will carry an interest rate of about 3 percent,
El Pais reported today, citing people familiar with Spain’s
negotiations with its European partners whom the newspaper
didn’t identify by name.  European officials have failed to control a debt crisis
that started in  Greece  at the end of 2009 and has now claimed
the euro region’s fourth-largest economy. The bailout adds to
the 386 billion euros ($480 billion) in pledges to Greece,
Ireland and  Portugal  that European governments and the
International Monetary Fund have made since 2010. Spain is twice
the combined size of those three economies.  Spain has made at least four attempts to overhaul its banks
since the collapse of the real estate boom in 2008, tightening
provisioning rules, encouraging mergers and coaxing lenders onto
the stock market. The International Monetary Fund said that
“gradual approach” had allowed weak banks to undermine
financial stability.  Bankia Nationalization  The Spanish government’s credibility was jolted by the
funding hole reported last month by the  Bankia group (BKIA) , the third-
biggest Spanish lender. The bank’s new managers went beyond the
government’s provisioning rules and asked for a 19 billion-euro
bailout. De Guindos had said two weeks earlier that 15 billion
euros would be enough to meet the requirements of the second of
two banking decrees he has drafted this year.  “The Spanish problem was entirely avoidable,” said  Thomas Mayer , an economic adviser to Deutsche Bank AG in  Frankfurt .
“When Bankia got into trouble and they had to inject another 19
billion, the market thought, well, they don’t know what they are
doing.”  Spain’s bank rescue fund will only inject the EU funds into
lenders that need it, and de Guindos said many banks won’t
require cash as difficulties are concentrated in about 30
percent of the industry.  The  International Monetary Fund , which will have an
advisory role in the rescue after saying in a report June 8 that
Spanish banks would need at least 37 billion euros to withstand
a weakening economy, praised the agreement. U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said the loans and the support
from its EU partners  were “important for the health of Spain’s
economy and as concrete steps on the path to financial union,
which is vital to the resilience of the euro area.”  Downgrade Risk  The loans will ease pressure on the Spanish Treasury, de
Guindos said. The debt agency has reduced its issuance at debt
auctions this year as foreign investors cut holdings of Spanish
securities. That has increased Spain’s dependence on domestic
banks, which in turn depend on the ECB for funding.  Still, the agreement may spur further downgrades in the
nation’s credit rating. Moody’s Investors Service, which grades
Spain at A3, said on June 8 that as the nation moved closer to
needing external help “the increased risk to the country’s
creditors may prompt further rating actions.”  Finland will also demand collateral for their share of the
loans if the funds come from the temporary European Financial
Stability Facility, Finance Minister Jutta Urpilainen told
reporters yesterday. Ministers haven’t decided whether that fund
or its permanent successor, the European Stability Mechanism,
will be used, Urpilainen and de Guindos said. Should the ESM
provide the funds, the loans would be senior to outstanding
government debt, giving Spain’s EU lenders protection at the
expense of bondholders.  “Market reaction is unlikely to be favorable given that
the bailout places even more strain on Spain’s creditworthiness,
sets a precedent that the euro zone’s other bailed-out
countries, in particular Ireland, are likely to object to, and
risks putting pressure on  Italy ,” Nicholas Spiro, managing
director at Spiro Sovereign Strategy, said in a note.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sills in Madrid  at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  