-- Spain Asks for $125 Billion Bank Bailout as Crisis Worsens
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y ,   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-06-09T20:27:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-09/spain-asks-for-125-billion-bank-bailout-as-crisis-worsens-1-.html
Spain  asked euro-region governments
for a bailout worth as much as 100 billion euros ($125 billion)
to rescue its banking system as the country became the biggest
euro economy so far to seek international aid.  “The Spanish government declares its intention of seeking
European financing for the recapitalization of the Spanish banks
that need it,” Economy Minister Luis de Guindos told reporters
in Madrid today. A statement by euro-region finance ministers
said the loan amount will “cover estimated  capital requirements 
with an additional safety margin.”  Just seven months after winning a landslide victory, Prime
Minister Mariano Rajoy was forced to abandon his bid to
recapitalize Spanish banks without recourse to external help as
a deepening  recession  forced lenders to recognize spiraling
losses. Today’s move means Spain has a firewall in case the
Greek election on June 17 unleashes a fresh round of market
turmoil.  De Guindos said the terms of the rescue loan are “very
favorable” compared with market rates and the funds will be
channeled through Spain’s FROB bank rescue fund, whose
liabilities count as public debt. The maximum amount of the
loans is equivalent to about 10 percent of gross domestic
product and interest paid on the loans will affect the deficit,
which is the euro-area’s third-largest.  Subject to Conditions  The FROB will only inject capital into lenders that need it,
and de Guindos said many banks won’t as difficulties are
concentrated in about 30 percent of the industry. Lenders
receiving aid will be subject to conditions, de Guindos said,
without giving details. The government won’t be forced to take
additional measures on the budget or economy.  “The 100 billion euros is the number that we were looking
for so I’m cautiously optimistic,” Olly Burrows, credit analyst
at Rabobank International, said in a telephone interview from
 London . “We still have to find a solution to the sovereign debt
crisis: it’s not done yet and we still have to press on with the
task of uniting  Europe .”  European officials have failed to get their arms around a
debt crisis that started in  Greece  at the end of 2009 and has
now claimed the euro region’s fourth-largest economy. The
bailout adds to the 386 billion euros ($480 billion) in pledges
to Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  that European governments and
the International Monetary Fund have made since 2010.  Denies Pressure  De Guindos denied he had faced pressure from European
officials to seek aid, a week before elections in Greece that
risk prompting the country’s exit from the euro. European
Central Bank Governing Council member Ewald Nowotny said
yesterday that any delay on Spain’s part in requesting aid would
increase the costs of a rescue. Spain’s banks are hobbled with
more than 180 billion euros of bad real estate loans and assets
stemming from the collapse of a property boom that was the
country’s main driver of economic growth.  Guindos said the government wanted to “contribute as much
as possible to restoring confidence in the single currency,”
and said events in the coming days may spur market tension.  The  International Monetary Fund , which will have an
advisory role after saying in a report yesterday that Spanish
banks would need at least 37 billion euros to stand a weakening
economy, praised the agreement. U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  also welcomed the deal.  Debt Sales  The loan will ease pressure on the Treasury, de Guindos
said. The debt agency has reduced its issuance at debt auctions
this year as foreign investors cut holdings of Spanish debt.
That has increased Spain’s dependence on domestic banks, which
in turn depend on the ECB for funding.  Still, the agreement, which de Guindos refused to call a
rescue, may spur further downgrades in the nation’s credit
rating. Moody’s Investors Service, which grades Spain at A3,
said late yesterday that as the nation moved closer to needing
external help “ the increased risk to the country’s creditors
may prompt further rating actions.”  “Market reaction is unlikely to be favorable given that
the bailout places even more strain on Spain’s creditworthiness,
sets a precedent that the euro zone’s other bailed-out countries,
in particular Ireland, are likely to object to, and risks
putting pressure on  Italy ,” Nicholas Spiro, managing director
at Spiro Sovereign Strategy, said in a note.  Finland’s Demands  Finland will demand collateral for the loans if they come
from the temporary European Financial Stability Facility,
Finance Minister Jutta Urpilainen told reporters. Ministers
haven’t decided whether that fund or its permanent successor,
the European Stability Mechanism, will be used, Urpilainen and
de Guindos said. Should the ESM provide the funds, the loans
would be senior to outstanding government debt, given Spain’s EU
lenders protection at the expense of bondholders.  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy , who said as recently as May
28 there would be no bailout for the nation’s lenders, will
travel to Poland tomorrow for the European soccer championship
and a meeting with his Polish counterpart. He said on June 7 he
wouldn’t take any decision on the nation’s banks until after
receiving results of an audit of the banks by international
consultants  Roland Berger  and  Oliver Wyman .  De Guindos said today the government will decide how much
of the total it will use after receiving those reports in the
next few days. They will probably show capital needs are
“manageable,” and the 100 billion euro figure is a
“maximum.”  Aid Request  The formal request for aid will come “shortly,” the
 statement  from the eurogroup of ministers said. An assessment
will then be provided by the European Commission, which will
liaise with the  European Central Bank , the European Banking
Authority and the IMF. There will be a proposal for “the
necessary policy conditionality for the financial sector.”  Concern about the health of Spanish banks, led to a jump in
the country’s borrowing costs since March and last week the 10-
year yield rose close to the euro-year high of 6.78 percent. The
yield has since slipped amid optimism that Rajoy would seek a
bailout and was at 6.17 percent yesterday.  The Spanish government’s credibility was jolted by the
funding hole reported last month by Bankia group, the third-
biggest Spanish lender. The bank’s new managers went beyond the
government’s provisioning rules and asked for a 19 billion-euro
bailout. De Guindos had said two weeks earlier that 15 billion
euros would be enough to meet the requirements of the second of
two banking decrees he has drafted this year.  “The Spanish problem was entirely avoidable,” said  Thomas Mayer , an economic adviser to Deutsche Bank AG in  Frankfurt .
“When Bankia got into trouble and they had to inject another 19
billion, the market thought, well, they don’t know what they are
doing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in  Madrid  at   bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  