-- U.S.’s Holder Names Two Prosecutors to Lead Leak Probes
-- B y   S e t h   S t e r n
-- 2012-06-09T05:34:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-09/u-s-s-holder-names-two-prosecutors-to-lead-leak-probes.html
U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder
named two federal prosecutors to investigate possible leaks of
classified information by the Obama administration.  Holder appointed Ronald C. Machen Jr., the U.S. attorney
for the  District of Columbia , and Rod J. Rosenstein, U.S.
attorney for  Maryland , to head the probe, according to a
statement yesterday from the Justice Department.  “I have every confidence in their abilities to doggedly
follow the facts and the evidence in the pursuit of justice
wherever it leads,” Holder said in the statement.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration has been accused of
leaking information about a U.S. cyber attack against  Iran’s
nuclear program  and Obama’s personal role in directing drone
attacks against terrorists to boost his election-year national
security bona fides. The disclosures have spurred calls from
U.S. lawmakers for an investigation and possible prosecutions.  Obama said yesterday before the announcement that White
House officials didn’t leak classified intelligence to
journalists. In response to a question, he said anyone who
leaked “will suffer consequences” and, in some instances, the
disclosures could lead to criminal charges.  “The notion that my White House would purposely release
classified national security information is offensive,” Obama
said. “It’s wrong.”  The White House press office didn’t immediately respond to
a request for comment on the appointment of the prosecutors.  McCain’s Criticism  In a June 6 statement,  John McCain  of  Arizona , the senior
Republican on the Senate Armed Services Committee, said the
disclosures were “grossly irresponsible” and said there is a
“deeper political motivation” for leaks.  Holder stopped short of appointing a special independent
prosecutor to conduct the investigation, which Republican
lawmakers including McCain have said he should do.  “We strongly believe a special counsel should be appointed
outside Justice Department control and influence,” Senator
 Lindsey Graham , a South Carolina Republican, and McCain said in
a joint statement yesterday. They said Holder’s decision “falls
far short of what is needed” and called for someone who
“enjoys bipartisan respect.”  Deputy Attorney General  James Cole  said appointing a
special prosecutor isn’t necessary at a June 6 Senate Judiciary
Committee hearing.  Justice Probes  Previous leak investigations have also been led by a U.S.
attorney rather than top officials at the  Justice Department ’s
National Security Division, in order to avoid the appearance of
any conflict of interest, according to a department official,
who wasn’t authorized to be identified publicly.  “The unauthorized disclosure of classified information can
compromise the security of this country and all Americans, and
it will not be tolerated,” Holder said in his statement.  The Justice Department statement didn’t specify which
disclosures of classified information would be the focus of the
prosecutors’ review.  Representative Mike Rogers, the chairman of the House
Intelligence Committee who has called for a probe of the leaks,
said last night that the department’s investigation “must be
complete, fair and balanced.”  “These U.S. attorneys will need to have the ability to
follow the investigation wherever it may lead,” Rogers, a
Michigan Republican, said in a statement distributed by his
office. “I look forward to hearing how they will be independent
from the chain of command.”  CIA’s Response  Rogers said on June 7 that the Central Intelligence Agency
won’t respond to the intelligence committee’s request for
information about leaks of classified data.  The panel had asked about last month’s disclosure of
information on an intelligence operation that thwarted plans by
al-Qaeda’s Yemen affiliate to smuggle a potentially undetectable
bomb onto a U.S.-bound airliner, according to a congressional
aide who isn’t authorized to speak to the media.  FBI Director  Robert Mueller  told the House Judiciary
Committee in a hearing last month that the  Federal Bureau  of
Investigation, an arm of the Justice Department, is
investigating the disclosures related to the Yemen bomb plot.  Preston Golson, a CIA spokesman, said there was no intent
by the agency to withhold information on the leaks issue.  “We all have to be careful not to jeopardize the DOJ
criminal investigation that is running concurrently with the
congressional inquiry,” Golson said in a June 7 e-mail.  The Justice Department should “bring the full force of the
law against these criminals” who leaked classified information,
said Representative  Lamar Smith , a Texas Republican and chairman
of the House Judiciary Committee, in a statement yesterday after
Holder’s announcement.  “We need to send a clear message to anyone who considers
leaking sensitive information and putting Americans at risk: if
you leak classified information, you will face jail time,”
Smith said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seth Stern in Washington at 
 sstern14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  