-- Union Rags Defeats Paynter in Photo Finish to Win Belmont
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-06-09T23:48:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-09/union-rags-beats-paynter-in-photo-finish-to-win-belmont-stakes.html
Union Rags, the co-favorite after
Triple Crown contender I’ll Have Another was retired with an
injury, won the Belmont Stakes.  Union Rags finished seventh in the  Kentucky Derby  on May 5,
his most recent race before today. I’ll Have Another won that
race and the Preakness in Baltimore on May 19, the first two
legs of the Triple Crown.  Union Rags, ridden by  John Velazquez  and trained by Michael
Matz, won the Belmont in two minutes, 30.42 seconds. It was a
photo finish over Paynter, trained by  Bob Baffert . Atigun,
trained by Ken McPeek, was third at the track in Elmont,  New
York . Union Rags paid $7,50, $4.20 and $3.40; Paynter, $5.10,
$3.90; and Atigun $10.60. Dullahan, the other co-favorite at
5-2, finished seventh.  “We finally got to see the real Union Rags,” Matz said.  The colt won $600,000 of the $1 million purse.  Matz, who said he wasn’t happy with Union Rags’s
performance in the Derby after the colt was crowded coming out
of the gate, skipped the Preakness and changed jockeys,
selecting Velazquez over Julien Leparoux.  Hall of Fame jockey Velazquez was pinned against the rail
by Atigun and behind Paynter as he came down the stretch. Jockey
 Mike Smith  allowed Paynter to drift just enough to allow Union
Rags to squeeze through.  “I was just hoping I could get enough room to get him
in,” Velazquez said.  Veteran’s Mistake  Smith said at every pole except the wire he thought he had
the Belmont won for Baffert, whose Bodemeister came in second in
the Derby and Preakness to I’ll Have Another.  “I’m a veteran and they’re not supposed to get through the
fence on me,” he said. “There wasn’t much room in there but
Union Rags has a lot of courage.”  Union Rags was bred by Phyllis Wyeth, who sold the yearling
at the Fasig-Tiption New York Saratoga 2010 Select Yearling Sale
for $145,000, then bought him back as a 2-year-old for $390,000.
She is the wife of American artist Jamie Wyeth.  A victory by I’ll Have Another today would have made him
the first Triple Crown winner since Affirmed in 1978. Instead,
he was retired yesterday after being diagnosed with signs of
tendinitis in his left front leg. Trainer Doug O’Neill and owner
J. Paul Reddam decided to end his racing career rather than wait
as long as a year for him to rehabilitate before returning to
the track.  No-Shows  More than 100,000 racing fans had purchased tickets to
watch I’ll Have Another in the 144th running of the Belmont
Stakes; NBC-TV said the crowd was 85,811. The colt would have
become the 12th winner of U.S. thoroughbred racing’s biggest
prize. The most recent horse to win the first two races of the
series was Big Brown four years ago. Unbeaten Big Brown was
pulled up at the final turn when the colt failed to respond to
the jockey’s directions in the 2008 race.  I’ll Have Another’s trainer has been embroiled in
controversy since the colt won the Preakness Stakes at Pimlico
Race Course, beating Bodemeister for the second time since the
Derby.  O’Neill was fined $15,000 and is facing a 45-day suspension
starting no sooner than July 1 for a  California  racing
violation. He was sanctioned after excessive levels of total
carbon dioxide were found in a sample from Argenta, a filly who
finished eighth in the sixth race at Del Mar Racetrack on Aug.
25, 2010. Under California rules, the trainer is accountable for
ensuring a horse’s condition.  O’Neill’s Past  O’Neill twice has been found guilty of administering a
banned combination of substances, known in racing as a
milkshake, at a California racetrack, the New York Times said
last month. The newspaper also said its analysis found O’Neill-
trained horses break down or show signs of injury at more than
twice the rate of the national average.  The trainer said he never had a horse test positive for an
illegal medication and that he would appeal his suspension.  “I definitely will contest, he said on NBC TV today. ‘‘I
wanted to wait until after the Belmont.’’  O’Neill escorted I’ll Have Another to the stakes barn one
minute before the noon deadline on June 6. Two days later, the
3-year-old chestnut colt’s racing career ended.  O’Neill said he plans to return I’ll Have Another to the
colt’s home track at Hollywood Park in California. In the
meantime, Reddam will be entertaining offers from breeding farm
owners who want to purchase the breeding rights to the stallion.  Stud Fees  Doug Cauthen, 49, thoroughbred manager and owner of Doug
Cauthen Thoroughbred Management LLC, said he expects I’ll Have
Another to be valued at $4 million to $6 million. Stud fees may
be as high as $20,000, he estimated.  ‘‘I think now you have to rachet things down a little
bit,” Cauthen said. “He still won two legs of the Triple
Crown, so I think he’s a $15,000 to $20,000 stallion depending
on where he goes and how aggressive they are.”  Reddam, speaking on NBC before the race said he prefers the
competition side of the sport.  “I love racing,” Reddam said. “I’m not a big fan of
breeding.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  