-- Venezuela Won’t Open Miami Voting Center for Elections
-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 2012-06-09T15:26:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-09/venezuela-won-t-open-miami-voting-center-for-elections-correct-.html
(Corrects kilometer conversion in first paragraph.)  Venezuela ’s  National Electoral
Council  decided not to open a voting center in Miami for
presidential elections Oct. 7, forcing voters registered in the
U.S. Southeast to travel about 670 miles (1,072 kilometers) to
New Orleans.  The CNE, as the council is known, said in a statement that
the decision came after the Miami consulate was closed this
year. President  Hugo Chavez  ordered the closing of the consulate
in January, after the U.S. expelled the Venezuelan consul on
espionage charges. The Miami area has the largest community of
Venezuelans outside the South American country.  “A majority in the CNE decided to not open the voting
center in Miami. It’s another blow to the citizens who are
treated poorly by their government,” Vicente Diaz, who is the
only director on the five-person electoral board affiliated with
the opposition, said on his  Twitter account . “To make Miami
voters travel to  New Orleans  is an attempt at undermining the
morale of a political group of the country.”  Chavez, 57, will look to extend his 13-year rule with
another six-year term in the October elections. The socialist
leader, who is battling an undisclosed type of cancer, will face
former governor of Miranda state Henrique Capriles Radonski, who
has pledged to gradually remove currency controls, fight crime
and attract foreign investment by ending Chavez’s
nationalization policies.  There are 23,000 Venezuelans living in Florida, Georgia,
 South Carolina  and  North Carolina  who are registered to vote in
Miami, Caracas-based newspaper El Nacional reported today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  