-- Visco Calls for Wider Fiscal Union to Improve EU Outlook
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 2012-06-09T12:48:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-09/visco-says-europe-s-economic-outlook-market-conditions-daunting.html
Europe’s economic outlook and market
conditions remain “daunting,” and without a broader fiscal
union the single currency may not survive, said  European Central
Bank  governing council member  Ignazio Visco .  “The European and global economic outlook and financial
market conditions are daunting,” Visco, who also heads the  Bank
of Italy , said today in a speech in Venice at a conference on
U.S.-Italian relations.  European governments need to take “courageous moves
towards fiscal and financial union” to break the link between
sovereign risk and bank risk, he said. “Without the design and
implementation of appropriate governance arrangements, monetary
union is difficult to sustain,” Visco said.  His remarks came as finance ministers of the 17 nations
using the euro prepared for a conference call to extend
emergency aid to Spain to shore up its banking system that is
hobbled by billions of euros of bad real-estate loans and
assets.  Spain  would become the fourth country after Greece,
Ireland and Portugal to seek support since the outbreak of the
region’s debt crisis more than two years ago.  Visco also called on leaders of the Group of 20 nations to
adopt more growth policies and said the U.S. needs to avoid “a
sharp fiscal tightening, such as would be produced in 2013 by
the legislated automatic spending cuts and the expiry of earlier
tax reductions.”  Complete Exit  The ECB was instrumental in using its non-ordinary measures
such as 1 trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) of three year loans to
ease tension in banking markets. Those measures remain
essential, but temporary, Visco said.  “It is crucial to observe that the euro system’s non-
standard measures are temporary,” he said. “They constitute a
bridge that has yet to be crossed. A complete exit from the
crisis will be achieved only if all actors properly shoulder
their responsibilities.”  Visco praised the government of Italian Prime Minister
 Mario Monti  and its predecessor led by  Silvio Berlusconi  for
implementing more structural reforms “since the summer of 2011
than during the previous decade.” Still, the crisis isn’t over
and more needs to be done, particularly in cutting spending
enough to reduce the country’s growing tax burden.  “The recent fiscal consolidation consisted chiefly of tax
increases,” he said. “This burden can be sustained only
temporarily. A stronger and more incisive fight against  tax
evasion  and the implementation of spending cuts are the
indispensable premises for the necessary reduction of tax
rates.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  