-- Volkswagen Clears Tax Hurdle on Porsche Integration, WiWo Says
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2012-06-09T15:03:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-09/volkswagen-clears-tax-hurdle-on-porsche-integration-wiwo-says.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and Porsche AG may be
able to complete their planned integration after German
officials ruled the deal wouldn’t face taxes, Wirtschaftswoche
 reported , without saying how it got the information.  Volkswagen cleared an important hurdle toward possibly
buying the 50.1 percent of the 911 sports-car maker it doesn’t
already own with the decision by tax authorities in the Baden-
Wuerttemberg state, where Porsche is based, the German weekly
said on its website today.  The plan involves VW transferring 4.5 billion euros ($5.6
billion) and one voting share to Porsche SE, Wirtschaftswoche
said. Baden-Wuerttemberg officials ruled that because a share is
changing hands, the transaction would be a company
restructuring, not a sale, the report said.  It’s “quite plausible” that such a transaction wouldn’t
be taxable, Frank Kupferschmidt, a spokesman for the Baden-
Wuerttemberg Finance Ministry in Stuttgart, said by phone. He
declined to comment on specifics of the case, citing the
confidentiality of business transactions.  “We are examining the possibilities of an integration,”
Wolfgang Glabus, a spokesman for Porsche SE, the holding company
that controls both carmakers, said in a telephone interview.
“That examination isn’t completed yet.” He declined to comment
on specifics of the magazine report.  Marco Dalan, a Volkswagen spokesman, declined to comment on
the report.  The two companies agreed to combine in 2009 after Porsche
racked up more than 10 billion euros of debt in an unsuccessful
attempt to take over Volkswagen. VW began exploring alternatives
for an integration after scrapping plans last year to merge with
the holding company because of legal tangles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  