-- Yankees Win, Mariners’ Pitch No-Hitter, Strasburg Strikes Out 13
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-06-09T06:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-09/yankees-win-mariners-pitch-no-hitter-strasburg-strikes-out-13.html
Robinson Cano ,  Nick Swisher  and
 Andruw Jones  hit successive home runs for the second time to
lead the  New York Yankees  to a 9-1 victory over cross-town rival
 New York Mets  in a Major League Baseball interleague game at
Yankee Stadium.  In a West Coast game, Kevin Millwood and five Seattle
Mariner relievers combined for a no-hitter in a 1-0 victory
against the league-leading  Los Angeles Dodgers .  In Boston, Nationals pitcher  Stephen Strasburg  struck out
13 in Washington’s first-ever win at Fenway Park.  The Yankee trio hit home runs in the third inning last
night after Cano drove home  Alex Rodriguez  with his first home
run of the game in the second inning. The same three batters
accomplished the feat in Game 2 at Baltimore on Aug. 28.  Hiroki Kuroda (5-6) had a no-hitter going for the Yankees
before Omar Quintanilla hit a double with two outs in the sixth
inning. He allowed one hit and struck out seven in seven innings
before limping from the mound when Daniel Murphy fired a line
drive into his left foot.  “I think I will be O.K.,” Kuroda said. “I could have
kept pitching, but I wanted to make sure I am O.K. for my next
start.”  The Yankees started the game with four home runs to gain a
6-0 advantage by the end of the third inning.  Sacrifice Fly  Curtis Granderson  scored on Rodriguez’s sacrifice fly to
center,  Mark Teixeira  added a run on Swisher’s ground-rule
double and Jones hit a run-scoring single in the seventh to cap
the Yankee 9-0 run.  Lucas Duda  doubled in the top of the ninth to send home
Quintanilla for the Mets’ only score.  Johan Santana  (3-3) gave up six runs on seven hits in five
innings, coming off two extra days of rest after throwing 134
pitches against the St. Louis Cardinals in the season’s third
no-hitter and the first ever for the Mets on June 1.  “For all the people who thought I didn’t make the right
decision a week ago, because of that decision I thought he
needed some extra rest and I’m also responsible for the way he
pitched tonight,” Mets manager Terry Collins said of Santana.
“He was rusty, command of his stuff was not as sharp as the
last four or five starts. It’s my doing tonight.”  The Yankees (32-25) moved into the second place in the
five-team American League East, one-half game behind the Tampa
Bay Rays. The Mets (32-27) are in third place in the five-team
National League East, 2 1/2 games behind the Washington
Nationals (33-23).  Seattle No-Hitter  At Safeco Field in  Seattle , Millwood, who pitched a no-
hitter for Philadelphia in the Phillies 1-0 win over San
Francisco on April 27, 2003, struck out six and walked one in 68
pitches before limping off the mound after the sixth inning with
a groin injury last night.  Charlie Furbush relieved Millwood, striking out one in 2/3
inning. Stephen Pryor (1-0) got the win after walking two and
striking out one in one-third inning. Lucas Leutge and Brandon League pitched the eighth inning, and Tom Wilhelmsen closed the
game with a perfect ninth inning for his third save.  The six Mariner pitchers combined for the season’s fourth
no-hitter and the first since Johan Santana threw the  New York 
Mets’ first no-hitter on June 1.  Kyle Seager hit a one-run single in the seventh for the
Mariners’ only score off Scott Elbert (0-1) who gave up two hits
and one run while striking out two.  13 Strikeouts  At Fenway Park, Strasburg struck out 13 in six innings and
Bryce Harper hit a two-run homer as the Nationals defeated the
Red Sox 7-4.  Strasburg (7-1) threw a career-high 119 pitches as he
allowed two runs on four hits. His 13 strikeouts were one short
of his career high of 14, set in his major league debut two
years ago yesterday against Pittsburgh.  Boston starter Felix Doubront (6-3) gave up six runs on
eight hits in four innings.  In other interleague games last night, it was Philadelphia
9, Baltimore 6; Pittsburgh 4, Kansas City 2; Cincinnati 6,
Detroit 5 (10 innings); Tampa Bay 5, Miami 1; Atlanta 4, Toronto
3; Houston 8, the Chicago White Sox 3; Milwaukee 9, San Diego 5;
Minnesota 8, the Chicago Cubs 7; Cleveland 6, St. Louis 2; the
Los Angeles Angels 7, Colorado 2; Texas 5, San Francisco 0 and
Arizona 9, Oakland 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in  Washington  at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  