-- 
Disney’s ‘Lion King’ Leads Ticket Sales for Second Weekend

-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 
2011-09-26T21:37:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/-lion-king-3-d-makeover-tops-movie-sales-for-second-weekend.html
“The  Lion King ,”  Walt Disney
Co. (DIS) ’s 3-D re-release of its 1994 animated hit, was the top film
in U.S. and Canadian theaters for a second weekend with $21.9
million in ticket sales.  The film edged out four new releases, including the Brad Pitt baseball saga “Moneyball,” which was second with sales of
$19.5 million, researcher  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  “The Lion King” is among at least three older films
scheduled for re-issue in 3-D.  James Cameron ’s “Titanic,” the
second-highest grossing film in history after Cameron’s
“Avatar,” and  George Lucas ’s “ Star Wars : Episode 1 - The
Phantom Menace” are slated for release next year.  “The Lion King” has become “an event film for kids and
parents,” said Gitesh Pandya, the editor of movie-tracker
BoxOfficeGuru.com. “It’s blasted past everybody’s expectations.
I foresee them extending the film beyond its two-week-only
run.”  The movie was to play in theaters for two weeks before the
release of a 3-D Blu-ray disk on Oct. 4. The 3-D version has
taken $61.5 million in ticket sales since debuting in theaters
on Sept. 16, according to Hollywood.com.  The film tells the story of Simba, a lion cub who runs away
after being tricked into thinking he was responsible for his
father’s death. The 1994 film won Oscars for best original score
and best original song.  ‘Dolphin Tale’  “Moneyball” is based on the book by  Michael Lewis . It’s
the story of Oakland Athletics General Manager Billy Beane’s
effort to transform his budget-constrained team from also-rans
into winners. The film co-stars  Jonah Hill  and Philip Seymour Hoffman.  The film “has the possibility of reaching the $100 million
mark,” said Pandya. “The reviews were terrific and the word-
of-mouth from audiences has been very strong.”  “Dolphin Tale,” based on a true story, was third with
sales of $19.2 million in its debut. The film is about a dolphin
who is rescued after becoming entangled in man-made debris.
Scientists developed a prosthetic after the animal’s tail had to
be amputated because of infection.  Morgan Freeman , Ashley Judd and Harry Connick Jr. star in
the film from  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner Bros.  ‘Killer Elite’  “Abduction” opened in fourth place with $10.9 million.
The film, starring “Twilight” actor  Taylor Lautner , is a
thriller about a man seeking to uncover the truth about his
background. The movie is from Vancouver-based Lions Gate
Entertainment Corp.  “Killer Elite” debuted at fifth place with $9.3 million.
The action film stars  Jason Statham  as a former special
operations expert who comes out of retirement to rescue his
mentor. Clive Owen and Robert De Niro co-star.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films rose 16.6 percent to
$105.9 million from the year-earlier period, Hollywood.com said.
Domestic box-office receipts this year have declined to $7.85
billion. Attendance is down 5.6 percent, and revenue is down 3.6
percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for
Sept. 23 through yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  