-- 
U.K. Stocks Climb for Second Day; RBS, Barclays, Tesco Advance

-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 
2011-09-26T16:00:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/3i-group-charter-lloyds-unilever-u-k-irish-equity-preview.html
U.K. stocks rose for a second day,
rebounding from last week’s slump, as banks rallied amid
speculation European leaders are moving toward providing more
support for the region’s financial companies.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , the biggest U.K.
government-controlled lender, rose 3.2 percent and Barclays Plc
gained 6.9 percent.  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  advanced 1.7 percent as
billionaire investor  Warren Buffett  raised his stake in the
U.K.’s largest supermarket chain.  The benchmark  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  advanced 22.56, or 0.5
percent, to 5,089.37 at the 4:30 p.m. close in London, having
earlier lost as much as 1.8 percent. The gauge has slumped 14
percent since the end of June amid concern global economic
growth is slowing and Europe’s debt crisis is spreading. The
FTSE All-Share Index gained 0.4 percent today and Ireland’s ISEQ
Index climbed 1.5 percent.  German lawmakers in the lower house of parliament will vote
on changes to the European Financial Stability Facility on Sept.
29. The enhanced powers of the 440 billion-euro ($595 billion)
EFSF, which were approved at a July 21 meeting of European
leaders in Brussels, take effect when all euro-area countries
have ratified them.  “Euro-zone governments are actively looking for ways of
leveraging the EFSF in order to increase its firepower once it
has been voted, so as to address both the issue of bank
recapitalization and an eventual problem with  Greece ,”  Laurence Boone , a London-based economist at Bank of America Corp., wrote
in a report today.  Bear Market   More than $3.5 trillion was wiped from equity values last
week, driving the MSCI All-Country World Index of 45 nations
into a bear market as speculation grew that policy makers are
struggling to contain a debt crisis that has engulfed Europe and
has Greece teetering on the edge of a default.  The slump in stocks has dragged the price-earnings ratio on
the FTSE 100 to 8.9 times the estimated profits of its
constituent companies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
This is below the average multiple of 11.4 during the past five
years, the data show.  Policy makers can make the EFSF more “efficient” by
leveraging it without involving the ECB, German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  said over the weekend. He also raised the
prospect of bringing in the fund’s permanent successor before
2013.  EFSF Expansion  The German government sees no need to expand the EFSF
beyond the current plans to boost the rescue fund, Finance
Ministry spokesman Martin Kotthaus told reporters at a regular
press conference in Berlin. Dutch Prime Minister  Mark Rutte  said
there are no plans in the Netherlands or  Finland  to raise the
amount of money in the EFSF. Rutte spoke to reporters in The
Hague today after meeting his Finnish counterpart Jyrki
Katainen.  There will be little-to-no economic growth in industrial
nations in the coming 12 months as  Europe ’s economy shrinks by 1
percent to 2 percent and the U.S. stagnates, said Mohamed El-
Erian, chief executive officer of  Newport Beach , California-
based Pimco. That will leave worldwide expansion at about 2.5
percent, less than the 4 percent forecast by the  International
Monetary Fund  this year and next.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  warned at the
annual meeting of the IMF that failure to combat the Greek-led
turmoil threatened “cascading default, bank runs and
catastrophic risk.”  Solution Needed  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  estimated 1 trillion
euros may have to be deployed while U.K. Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  said a solution is needed by the time
that Group of 20 leaders meet in Cannes,  France , on Nov. 3-4.  Billionaire investor  George Soros  said “something needs to
be done” to safeguard Europe’s banks because Greece may be
unable to avoid default.  RBS advanced 3.2 percent to 23.57 pence. Barclays gained
6.9 percent to 156 pence.  Legal & General Group Plc (LGEN)  advanced 6.4 percent to 97.45
pence. Aviva Plc climbed 6.4 percent to 295 pence. Insurers
posted the biggest gains among shares in western Europe today.  Tesco gained 1.7 percent to 371.4 pence. Buffett raised his
stake in the retailer to 3.64 percent, a person familiar with
the matter said. Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. increased the
holding from 3.21 percent, according to the person, who declined
to be identified because the information hasn’t been made
public.  Fresnillo Plc (FRES)  slumped 6.9 percent to 1,524 pence, its tenth
slide in eleven days, as silver had the biggest three-day drop
since 1980 in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in  London  at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  