-- 
Haas Wins Golf’s Tour Championship in Playoff, $10 Million FedEx Cup Bonus

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-09-26T04:05:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/haas-wins-golf-s-tour-championship-in-playoff-10-million-fedex-cup-bonus.html
Bill Haas took the U.S.  PGA Tour ’s
season-ending Tour Championship on the third playoff hole. It
wasn’t until he saw two trophies awaiting him that he realized
he’d also won the yearlong FedEx Cup and its $10 million bonus.  Haas, 29, beat  Hunter Mahan  yesterday after scrambling to
save pars on the first two holes of the sudden-death playoff at
East Lake Golf Club in Atlanta. Mahan missed a 15-foot par
attempt at the 232-yard par-3 18th hole before Haas made a four-
foot putt for the victory and $1.44 million prize.  Haas, a son of former PGA Tour winner Jay Haas, said he was
surprised when he went for television interviews afterwards and
found two trophies and no other player.  “I looked at my wife, who was there, and she nodded her
head. So that was when I realized,” Haas said about claiming
the FedEx Cup’s bonus. “All these things had to happen for me
to win and they did.”  Haas  finished  with 2,760 points in the FedEx Cup standings,
15 more than runner-up  Webb Simpson , who won the PGA Tour’s
second playoff event and had top-10 finishes in the other two
tournaments. Simpson finished 22nd at the Tour Championship
after shooting a 3-over-par 73 yesterday.  “I knew $11 million was on the line somehow, whether  Luke
Donald  won it or Webb Simpson won it or I won it, it was there,
so that was in my head,” Haas said. “When I was putting for
that 4-footer to win, it was just to win the Tour Championship,
knowing that was all I could do.”  Haas and Mahan finished four rounds tied at 8-under par,
one shot better than K.J. Choi of  South Korea , Aaron Baddeley of
 Australia  and  England ’s Donald, the No. 1 player in the  Official
World Golf Ranking . Donald finished third in the FedEx Cup
standings, 193 points behind Haas.  Playoff Scramble  At the first playoff hole, the par-3 18th, Haas made an 11-
foot putt to save par after hitting his tee shot off the stands
to the right of the green.  Haas then pulled his second shot into the edge of the pond
next to the green at the 447-yard par-4 17th hole, leaving his
ball almost halfway submerged. With Mahan lining up a birdie
putt of about 25 feet, Haas splashed his shot within three feet
of the cup to save another par.  “It was basically just a bunker down there in the water,”
Haas said. “It was all or nothing there, so I had to hit a
decent shot. There was definitely some luck involved.”  Mahan, who is one week older than Haas, credited his
opponent afterward for the clutch shot.  ‘Beautiful Shot’  “His ball was maybe half-in or so and he spun it,” Mahan
said. “That was a beautiful shot.”  The players returned to the 18th hole, where Haas landed
his tee shot on the green and Mahan ended up in a bunker. Haas
two-putted for his third career PGA Tour victory, after winning
twice last season.  “I just hung in there. This was very unexpected,” Haas
said after the PGA Tour’s 16th playoff in 40 stroke-play events
this season tied a record set in 1988 and 1991.  The Tour Championship featured the top 30 players on the
FedEx Cup points list.  Adam Scott  and Jason Day of Australia
finished 6-under par, tied for sixth place with Charles Howell III of the U.S. Bo Van Pelt was 5-under, one shot better than
fellow American  Phil Mickelson .  This was the fifth year of the four-tournament FedEx Cup
playoff system. Tiger Woods won the bonus two of the first three
years and  Vijay Singh  locked up the 2008 title before the final
event was played.  Jim Furyk , who won the cup last year, didn’t
qualify for the Tour Championship this year.  Woods, a 14-time major tournament winner who has slipped to
No. 49 in the world during a 22-month winless drought, wasn’t
among the qualifiers for this year’s FedEx Cup playoffs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  