-- 
Abbas Says ‘Long Journey’ Lies Ahead for Recognition of Palestinian State

-- B y   F a d w a   H o d a l i   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 
2011-09-25T14:37:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/abbas-says-long-journey-lies-ahead-for-recognition-of-palestinian-state.html
Palestinian Authority President
 Mahmoud Abbas  returned to the  West Bank  and told supporters that
a “long journey” lies ahead in the bid to secure international
recognition of Palestinian statehood.  Abbas spoke to thousands of cheering people gathered at his
headquarters in the city of Ramallah today after returning from
New York, where he formally requested full membership in the
 United Nations . “Dear brothers, we are realistic,” he told the
crowd. “Our international journey has begun and a long journey
lies ahead.”  Abbas didn’t directly address the proposal by the U.S. and
its partners in the so-called Middle East Quartet to resume
peace talks with Israel. In the past, he has said negotiations
can’t take place while settlement building continues.  The U.S. is calling for a resumption of talks and has
threatened to veto any  Security Council  resolution calling for
full Palestinian membership. The Security Council will meet to
discuss the Palestinian application tomorrow. It could take
weeks or months before a vote is held.  “We have told the world that there is the Arab Spring, but
the Palestinian Spring is here,” Abbas said. “A popular
spring, a populist spring, a spring of peaceful struggle that
will reach its goal.”  After he finished, the crowd hoisted flags and posters of
Abbas, repeatedly chanting the Palestinian leader’s popular
name, “Abu Mazen.”  Favorable Response  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  responded
favorably to the proposal by the Quartet, which is comprised of
the U.S., United Nations, European Union and  Russia , and will
consult with his government before issuing a formal response, an
official said.  Netanyahu plans to meet with Cabinet ministers to discuss
the initiative after returning to Israel from  New York  tomorrow,
said the Israeli official, who declined to be identified because
he wasn’t authorized to speak on the record. Netanyahu’s initial
reaction was positive because the statement from the Quartet
calls for negotiations without specifying preconditions, the
official said.  The Palestinians have indicated they are unlikely to accept
the proposal from the Quartet. Abbas said during his return from
New York that while he was still studying it, he won’t deal with
any initiative that doesn’t demand a halt to Israeli settlement
construction, the  Associated Press  reported.  Israeli Warning  The Quartet proposal came after Abbas spoke at the UN
General Assembly on Sept. 23 and called on the Security Council
to recognize a Palestinian state and grant it full UN
membership.  Israeli Foreign Minister Avigdor Liberman warned that UN
passage of the Palestinian application would elicit a tough
response from his government.  “That would bring us to an altogether new situation and
this would have repercussions, severe repercussions,” Liberman
said in an interview from New York with Israeli Army Radio.
“Any unilateral step will without a doubt bring an Israeli
reaction.”  The Quartet proposal lays out a timeline for peace talks in
which Israelis and Palestinians would reach a final status
agreement that would end the conflict by December 2012.  No Reference  There was nothing in its statement that indicated how the
Israeli-Palestinian impasse might be broken, other than putting
the burden on the adversaries to “overcome current obstacles”
and resume negotiations “without delay or preconditions.”  Negotiations broke down a year ago after Netanyahu refused
to renew a 10-month partial freeze on new construction in
settlements.  The Quartet statement makes no reference to settlement
building, saying only that the parties should “refrain from
provocative actions.”  If negotiations resume “I will be the one who reaches a
peace agreement between two nations, one of which will be a
demilitarized Palestinian state that recognizes a Jewish
state,” Netanyahu said in an interview broadcast Saturday on
 Israel ’s Channel Two.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fadwa Hodali in Ramallah, West Bank at 
 fhodali@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  