-- 
German Stocks Rise for Second Day; Banks, Insurance Companies Lead Advance

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-09-26T15:55:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/allianz-bayer-daimler-deutsche-bank-german-equity-preview.html
German stocks rose as the country’s
business confidence fell less than expected and the
 International Monetary Fund  said it is ready to support European
nations in their efforts to resolve the debt crisis.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and Commerzbank AG led rising shares,
soaring more than 7 percent, after initially dropping more than
3 percent.  Bayer AG (BAYN)  jumped 4.3 percent as a study showed the
company’s prostate cancer drug cut death risks by 30 percent.
Kloeckner & Co. SE sank 3.8 percent after saying it expects a
weak third quarter.  The benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  gained 2.9 percent to 5,345.56 at
the 5:30 p.m. close in Frankfurt. The gauge posted the biggest
drop in more than a month last week as the  Federal Reserve  said
it sees “significant downside risks” for the economy and
speculation grew that policy makers will be unable to solve the
debt crisis. The broader HDAX Index increased 2.6 percent today.  The Ifo institute in Munich said its business climate
index, based on a survey of 7,000 executives, declined for a
third straight month to 107.5 in September from 108.7 in August.
Economists in a Bloomberg survey had forecast a reading of
106.5.  “The German economy will grow much slower in the months
ahead but with today’s numbers, the chance has increased that it
will avoid a recession,” said Bernd Weidensteiner, a Frankfurt-
based economist at  Commerzbank AG. (CBK)   ‘Whatever Is Necessary’  Euro-area countries will do whatever is necessary to end
the crisis and ensure the financial stability of the entire euro
area and its members, the IMF said in a statement after its
meetings in  Washington  on Sept. 24. Advanced nations are at the
“core” of a resolution to the current global uncertainty and
should adopt policies to improve their finances, it said.  Deutsche Bank,  Germany ’s biggest bank, jumped 8.7 percent
to 25.12 euros, while Commerzbank, the second largest, surged
7.8 percent to 1.76 euros. Banks were the second-best performers
in the benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index today, gaining 3.8
percent as a group.  Allianz SE (ALV) ,  Europe ’s largest insurer, climbed 10 percent to
65.01 euros, the biggest gain since February 2009.  Munich Re ,
the world’s biggest reinsurer, surged 7.1 percent to 85.63
euros. A measure of European insurance companies rose more than
6 percent today.  Bayer advanced 4.3 percent to 41.10 euros, as a study found
that an experimental drug developed by Bayer and Algeta ASA
prolonged the lives of men with prostate cancer that’s spread to
their bones. A trial of the drug, called Alpharadin, in 922 men
was stopped early after an interim analysis showed that patients
receiving it on top of standard treatment had a 30 percent lower
risk of dying than those receiving just the current therapy,
according to the study.  HeidelbergCement  HeidelbergCement AG (HEI)  rose 4.1 percent to 26.80 euros, its
first advance in four days. The cement maker hasn’t experienced
a decline in business amid the debt crisis, Deutsches Anleger
Fernsehen cited Chief Executive Officer  Bernd Scheifele  as
saying in an interview. Scheifele added that the company
maintains its outlook for 2011 unchanged, the broadcaster
reported.  Kloeckner, the German steel trader operating in 15
countries in Europe and  North America , fell 3.8 percent to 9.25
euros, the lowest close since May 2009. The company is expecting
a weak third quarter due to lower orders and isn’t likely to
reach its earning goals for 2011, Deutsches Anleger Fernsehen
reported, citing Chief Executive Officer Gisbert Ruehl in an
interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in  Frankfurt  at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  