-- 
Amateur Obama Was Hostage to Bob Rubin’s B-Team as Economy Slid

-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 
2011-09-25T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/amateur-obama-was-hostage-to-bob-rubin-s-b-team-as-economy-slid.html
Every once in a while, a single
anecdote sums up a 500-page political saga. So it is with
“Confidence Men,” Ron Suskind’s revelatory look at Barack Obama’s flailing struggle to halt the deepest economic crisis
since  Franklin Delano Roosevelt  ruled the White House.  The month was December 2008, and Obama was still president-
elect. Yet he had already made a fateful decision -- selecting
 Timothy Geithner  as treasury secretary and  Lawrence Summers  as
head of the National Economic Council, his administration’s top
economic posts.  “I don’t understand how you could do this,” Senator  Byron Dorgan , a North Dakota Democrat, is quoted as telling Obama.
“You’ve picked the wrong people!”  Obama ignored that warning about Geithner and Summers,
“two men whose actions had contributed to the very financial
disaster they were hired to solve,” as Suskind says. The dice,
now cast, were loaded.  Wasn’t Geithner the New York Federal Reserve chief who
helped bail out Wall Street? Wasn’t Summers the combative
Harvard wunderkind who, during his tenure at the Treasury
Department, had pilloried the idea of regulating derivatives?  Geithner had served under Summers in  Bill Clinton ’s
administration, and both men had close ties to  Robert Rubin , the
former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  executive who went on to become
treasury secretary and chairman of  Citigroup Inc. (C)  as that bank
careened toward disaster. Many members of “Rubin’s B-Team,” as
Suskind calls them, “had turned high-ranking posts under
Clinton into Wall Street riches.”  Volcker’s ‘A-Team’  Why Obama chose Geithner and Summers when he could have
assembled an “A-Team” led by former Federal Reserve Chairman
 Paul Volcker  is one of the most baffling questions about his
tumultuous first two years in office. The decision cuts to the
heart of this narrative and keeps you reading long after you’ve
absorbed the White House’s petty criticisms about the book.  The portrait of Obama that emerges here is sympathetic,
even though Suskind addresses the president’s failings,
including his oddly timed determination to make health care a
priority as the  U.S. economy  was imploding. The theme is the
education of a president: how a first-term U.S. senator with
little management experience, “a brilliant amateur” in
Suskind’s phrase, gradually took ownership of the White House
and became more than the nation’s orator in chief.  Presidential Wonk  Though the book toggles between Washington and  Wall Street ,
the freshest material comes from Suskind’s deep access to the
West Wing. The president comes across here as an earnest man who
was unprepared for power -- a self-professed policy wonk so bent
on seeking consensus that he missed a once-in-a-generation
opportunity to put the U.S. on sounder financial footing.  Isolated inside the White House bubble, Obama became
something of a hostage to the men he selected. Time and again,
we see him caught up in endless arguments with his economics
team about decisions he had already taken -- “relitigating”
the issues, in Obamaese.  His body language during these scenes is passive. He looks
on and sits back as Summers, a master debater, hashes things
out. During one particularly acrimonious debate in March 2009,
Obama leaves to get a haircut and have dinner with his family.  “When I come back, I want this issue resolved,” he says.  Summers and Geithner had long argued that the economy, like
a sick patient, needed a doctor who heeded Hippocrates’s dictum,
“first, do no harm,” Suskind writes. Both men counseled
against actions that could have unintended consequences, and
neither believed in capping bank compensation. Summers, the
gatekeeper for all economic information passed to Obama, opposed
measures that Volcker championed, such as banning banks from
proprietary trading.  Tough Love  Yet by the Sunday when Obama stepped out of the Roosevelt
Room for his haircut, even Summers had decided it was time to
stop coddling bubonic banks -- time to “tear the Band-Aid
off,” as Suskind quotes him saying. So Summers argued for
shutting down and cleaning up troubled institutions such as
Citigroup. It was a “tough-love” approach that Volcker could
appreciate, one that would echo FDR’s restructuring of the
financial system during the Depression.  Geithner would have none of it, arguing that the way to
restore confidence was to conduct bank stress tests.  Ultimately, Obama decided to take down just Citigroup --
and to do the job so well that Congress would give him money to
fix other banks, Suskind says. Meanwhile, Geithner could forge
ahead with the stress tests. Only later did the president learn
that Geithner had ignored his order to prepare a plan to wind
down Citi, Suskind writes.  In the book, Obama doesn’t deny Suskind’s account, while
Geithner says he didn’t “slow walk the president on anything.”  Con Men  Though this sounds like a ripping drama about clashing egos
-- which it is -- the real war was about ideas. It all came down
to the question hinted at in the title: How do you restore
confidence in a country flattened by a debt bubble that left
millions of Americans poorer and Wall Street’s elite richer?  Confidence rests on trust, and trust must be earned, as
Suskind says: “Separating the two -- gaining trust without
earning it -- is the age-old work of confidence men.”  When con men prey on the White House, all I can do is adapt
Edward R. Murrow’s sign-off. Good night, Mr. President, and good
luck.  “Confidence Men: Wall Street,  Washington  and the Education
of a President” is from Harper (515 pages, $29.99). To buy this
book in  North America , click here.  (James Pressley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 