-- 
Australia Economy Gap May Worsen, Future Fund Says

-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 
2011-09-25T21:46:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/australia-economy-gap-may-worsen-future-fund-says-correct-.html
(Corrects currency conversion in second paragraph.)  Australia  is likely to exacerbate
the risks from a two-speed economy if it doesn’t cut its level
of indebtedness to other countries,  Future Fund  Chairman  David
Murray  said.  “This is not a time when state and federal governments
should be becoming more highly indebted,” Murray, who oversees
the government-owned entity controlling A$75 billion ($73
billion) of assets, said on the Australian Broadcasting Corp.’s
“Inside Business” program. “And they are. So that is a
weakness of fiscal policy in Australia and that’s holding back
development and making the so-called Dutch Disease risk higher
than it need be.”  Australia’s economy is benefiting from demand from
developing nations including China and  India  for  iron ore , coal
and natural gas, even as other industries including tourism,
education and manufacturing struggle. The so-called two-speed
economy has prompted economists to debate whether Australia is
suffering “ Dutch Disease ,” whereby companies extracting
natural resources are prosperous while other industries are
wiped out.  Murray also attributed the sovereign debt crisis in  Europe 
to governments’ lack of understanding and discipline.  “This was a failure of government to understand the
realities of financial markets and of fiscal discipline in their
own countries,” he said. “What this says to me is that people
elected to political life have far too little an understanding
of the limits of debt than they should have.”  Bear Market   Concerns that a Greek default may be inevitable helped push
global stocks into their first bear market in two years.
European governments are exploring speeding the start of a
permanent rescue fund, known as the European Stability Mechanism,
for their cash-strapped economies amid fresh signs they may
bolster efforts to halt the worsening sovereign debt crisis.  Asked by Bloomberg Television about bringing forward the
start date of the ESM, European Union Economic and Monetary
Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said the focus for now is on
upgrading the temporary fund, the 440 billion-euro European
Financial Stability Facility.  The Australian Future Fund’s investment strategy will
remain “defensive” until the uncertainty over the global
situation abates, Murray said.  The Future Fund is the world’s 13th largest sovereign
wealth fund by assets under management, ranked behind the Qatar
Investment Authority, according to the Sovereign Wealth Fund
Institute, which analyses the sector.  “Nobody knows which political set of decisions will be
made by the European leaders,” he said. “It has not been very
clear which way the world would come out. That is, whether the
world would come out of this problem with higher inflation, so
the debt was devalued, or it would come out with lower growth
with a dis-inflationary outcome.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  