-- 
Australia Economic Base ‘Rock Solid’ in Midst of Global Crisis, Swan Says

-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 
2011-09-25T22:09:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/australia-rock-solid-in-midst-of-global-crisis-swan-says.html
Australia  is facing the current
global economic turmoil from a position of strength, with low
unemployment, a strong banking system and a big investment
pipeline, Treasurer Wayne Swan said.  “The international economy has entered a dangerous new
phase,” Swan wrote in his weekly e-mailed economic note
yesterday. Australia’s “successful response to the global
financial crisis and record of economic reform means our
fundamentals today are rock solid.”  Global markets are in turmoil on fears that a default by
 Greece  will exacerbate an 18-month debt crisis and tip Europe
and the global economy back into recession. The  International
Monetary Fund  cut its forecast for global economic growth this
month and predicted “severe” repercussions if  Europe  fails to
contain its debt crisis or if U.S. policy makers reach an
impasse over a fiscal plan.  European governments are exploring speeding the start of a
permanent rescue fund for their cash-strapped economies and
senior finance officials will examine next week the cost
advantages of setting up the fund, known as the European
Stability Mechanism, a year earlier than its currently planned
July 2013 start, according to a document prepared for the
meetings and obtained by Bloomberg News.  Little Understanding  The euro erased earlier gains versus the  U.S. dollar ,
trading at $1.3499 as of 6:37 a.m. in  Tokyo , from $1.35 on Sept.
23 in  New York . It weakened to 103.30 yen from 103.40 yen.  David Murray , chairman of Australia’s Future Fund,
attributed the sovereign debt crisis in Europe to governments’
lack of understanding and discipline.  “This was a failure of government to understand the
realities of financial markets and of fiscal discipline in their
own countries,” Murray, who oversees the government-owned
entity controlling A$75 billion ($73 billion) of assets, said on
the Australian Broadcasting Corp.’s “Inside Business” program
yesterday. “What this says to me is that people elected to
political life have far too little an understanding of the
limits of debt than they should have.”  Australia has its own problems, with the country likely to
exacerbate the risks from a two-speed economy if it doesn’t cut
its level of indebtedness to other nations, Murray said.  Two-Speed Economy  “This is not a time when state and federal governments
should be becoming more highly indebted,” he said. “And they
are. So that is a weakness of fiscal policy in Australia and
that’s holding back development and making the so-called  Dutch
Disease  risk higher than it need be.”  Australia’s economy is benefiting from demand from
developing nations including China and  India  for  iron ore , coal
and natural gas, even as other industries including tourism,
education and manufacturing struggle. The so-called two-speed
economy has prompted economists to debate whether Australia is
suffering “Dutch Disease,” whereby companies extracting
natural resources are prosperous while other industries are
wiped out.  The nation’s gross domestic product expanded more than
economists forecast last quarter, driven by rising consumer
spending and a rebound in exports after natural disasters
disrupted coal mining at the start of the year. The economy will
grow by 1.8 percent this year, the Washington-based IMF said
last week.  Fiscal Plan  “Major economies need to deal with the current challenges
with the same determination that saw us stare down the global
financial crisis,” Swan wrote in his note from  Washington ,
where he attended meetings of the Group of 20 finance ministers,
the IMF and the  World Bank . “While the Australian economy has
grown over 5 percent since the crisis struck, many of our peers
still haven’t made up the ground they lost.”  U.S. consumer spending probably slowed, growing 0.2 in
August, after growing 0.8 percent in July, according to the
median estimate of 63 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  The  U.S. economy  will expand 1.5 percent this year, and
Europe 1.6 percent, assuming volatility in financial markets
doesn’t worsen and U.S. authorities agree on a fiscal plan that
both supports the economy and outlines fiscal consolidation over
the medium term, the IMF said.  A deadlock in the  U.S. Congress  over extending the nation’s
debt limit and trimming budget limits brought the world’s
biggest economy to the brink of default on July 31.  “The crisis has now entered a new ‘political phase’ with
markets calling for swift action by policy makers,” Swan said.
“Even though we are likely to see bouts of instability continue
for some time to come, we need to remember that our situation
couldn’t be more different to many of our peers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  