-- 
Bahrain Hires Citi, BNP, Standard Chartered for $1 Billion Sukuk

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 
2011-09-26T12:39:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/bahrain-hires-citi-bnp-standard-chartered-for-1-billion-sukuk.html
Bahrain hired  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  BNP
Paribas (BNP)  SA and  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  to advise on the sale of
about $1 billion in Islamic bonds next month as the Persian Gulf
country seeks to bridge its  budget deficit .  The island-kingdom, home to the U.S. fifth fleet, will use
the money to finance a budget deficit of about 5 percent of
gross domestic product, Central Bank Governor Rasheed al-Maraj
said in an interview yesterday in Washington. Maraj said he will
seek to keep borrowing costs at between 200 basis points, or two
percentage points, and 230 basis points above U.S. Treasuries.  “Our reading into the market is that there is still
growing demand for sukuk, especially from Asian markets,
regional markets in the  Middle East  and possibly European
markets,” he said. “There has been an absence of sovereign
issuances of sukuk for quite some time. Now the market is ready
to have a new issuance.”  Protests this year in Bahrain, instigated by the majority
Shiite Muslims who are demanding more political rights from
Sunni rulers, have slowed economic growth and damaged the
country’s image as a regional financial center.  Credit Agricole
SA (ACA) , France’s second-largest bank, has informed the central bank
it was reducing its presence in Bahrain, Maraj said.  The sukuk sale follows Bahrain’s government raising the
public debt ceiling by 1 billion dinars ($2.65 billion) to 3.5
billion dinars, Maraj said. Global sales of sukuk, which pay
asset returns to comply with Islam’s ban on interest, climbed to
$17.4 billion in 2011, compared with $10.7 billion in the same
period last year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Yields Rise  Bahrain’s credit default swaps jumped 32 basis points to
384 today, the highest in more than two years, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by  CME Group Inc. (CME)  and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  The yield on the Central Bank of Bahrain’s 6.247 percent
sukuk maturing in June 2014 rose 16 basis points last week to
2.96 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
climbed 13 basis points today.  The central bank expects the economy to expand about 2
percent this year, Maraj said. That’s higher than the forecasts
of the  International Monetary Fund , which is predicting 1.5
percent growth in 2011 compared with 4.1 percent last year.  The political unrest has also weakened domestic demand,
leading to a drop in consumer prices since March,  Standard
Chartered  said in a report this month. Inflation will average 1
percent in 2011, according to IMF forecasts.  “The prices came down, but I don’t see it making a serious
impact on economic activities in Bahrain,” Maraj said. The
government will seek to increase revenue by raising natural gas
prices for industries by $1 for each million British Thermal
Units to $3.5 next year, he said.  Investors shouldn’t write off Bahrain’s economic and
financial prospects, he said. “Bahrain has been a financial
center for almost four decades. We have gone through many crises
before.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in  Washington  at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  