-- 
Balls Says U.K. Bank-Sale Proceeds Should Go to Cut Debt

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 
2011-09-26T12:37:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/balls-says-u-k-bank-sale-proceeds-should-be-used-to-cut-debt.html
Ed Balls , the Treasury spokesman
for the U.K.’s opposition Labour Party, said proceeds from
selling off state-controlled banks should be used to reduce the
national debt rather than in giveaways to voters.  The government took stakes of 41 percent of  Lloyds Banking
Group Plc (LLOY)  and 83 percent of Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in
late 2008 and early 2009, rescuing the companies from collapse.
Both are currently trading at about half the average price at
which the government bought the stakes.  In March, four people familiar with talks between the banks
and Prime Minister David Cameron’s government said a sale could
start as soon as next year. While Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  has called for the shares to be distributed to taxpayers,
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  may prefer a straight
sale to raise funds that could be used to cut taxes before the
2015 election.  “Even as bank shares are falling again,  David Cameron  and
Nick Clegg are still betting on a windfall gain from privatizing
RBS and Lloyds to pay for a pre-election giveaway,” Balls told
his party’s annual conference in Liverpool, northwest England
today. “We will commit instead in our manifesto to do the
responsible thing and use any windfall gain from the sale of
bank shares to repay the national debt.”  Five-Point Plan  Balls set out five things he said needed to be done to
boost growth. He said the government should bring back a tax
on bank bonuses to fund homebuilding, bring forward
infrastructure spending, cut  sales tax , with a further sales-tax
reduction on home-improvement goods, and offer a tax break for
small firms taking on new staff.  “Trying to cut the deficit too far, too fast isn’t
working,” Balls said. “The government must adopt a steadier,
more balanced plan to get our deficit down and take immediate
action now to support the economy and create jobs here in
Britain.”  Balls’s speech is an attempt to regain economic credibility
for the  Labour Party  after its election defeat in 2010. In
support of that effort, he pledged to set out before the next
election, due in 2015, “tough fiscal rules that the next Labour
government will have to stick to -- to get our country’s current
budget back to balance and national debt on a downward path.”  These rules would be monitored by  Office for Budget
Responsibility , he said, in effect confirming he has no plans to
abolish the independent fiscal watchdog created by Cameron last
year.  Past Mistakes  While Balls acknowledged some mistakes in government,
including a low rise in the state pension and a tax increase on
low earners, he was unapologetic about levels of spending. “It
wasn’t too many police officers or nurses or teachers here in
Britain that bankrupted  Lehman Brothers  in  New York ,” he said.  Labour leader  Ed Miliband  said yesterday he wants to
reverse the government’s  corporation-tax  cut for banks and use
the money to reduce student tuition fees. He said the fees,
capped by Cameron’s coalition government at 9,000 pounds
($13,900) a year, should be limited to 6,000 pounds a year.  Graduates earning more than 65,000 pounds a year would pay
a higher rate of interest on their student loans if Labour wins
back power.  ‘Fast-Buck Economy’  “I don’t think a priority for Britain is to cut taxes for
financial services,” Miliband said in an interview with BBC
television’s “Andrew Marr Show.” “We’ve got a short-term
fast-buck economy and we’ve got to move to a different kind of
economy,” he said. The U.K. “needs long-term values and long-
term investment in our young people.”  Osborne said in his March 23 budget that corporation tax
for all businesses will be cut from 28 percent last year to 23
percent in 2014. He told lawmakers that the levy on bank balance
sheets would be increased to 0.078 percent from January 2012 to
“offset” the benefit for financial-services companies from the
tax reduction.  The British Chambers of Commerce offered its own
five-point-plan today, calling for cuts in regulation, another
50 billion pounds of quantitative easing, tax cuts and
accelerated infrastructure spending.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in Liverpool,  England , at  rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in Liverpool, England, at  tpenny@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 