-- 
Bankers Splinter on Remedy for European Debt as Tension Pervades Meetings

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r ,   D a w n   K o p e c k i   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 
2011-09-26T02:03:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/bankers-splinter-on-remedy-for-european-debt-as-tension-pervades-meetings.html
Wall Street leaders,  urging
coordinated action  from world governments to solve the European
sovereign-debt crisis, struggled themselves during four days of
meetings in Washington to agree on what’s needed to end it.  The chiefs of firms including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA met
for three hours at the  National Archives  on Sept. 23. They
differed on which government and private solutions may restore
confidence in European debt and banks, and on some elements of
regulation, said two participants who spoke on condition of
anonymity because the meeting wasn’t public.  “It was a big group there, they’re going to differ about
stuff; there’s a lot of tension in the air because of the world
we live in,”  Morgan Stanley (MS)  Chief Executive Officer James Gorman, 53, said as he left the event, which coincided with
weekend meetings of the  International Monetary Fund  and
Institute of International Finance. “There’s no one solution.
It’s going to be 25 different things.”  Bank-stock indexes in Europe and the U.S. have dropped more
than 30 percent this year and borrowing costs for European
lenders have climbed amid concern that Greece and other European
countries may default. The level of disagreement between bankers
and government officials who gathered for the annual IMF meeting
was matched only by their shared sense that the stakes have
rarely been higher.  ‘More Gravity’  “There’s not been a prior meeting at which matters have
had more gravity and at which I’ve been more concerned about the
future of the global economy,” said Lawrence Summers, a former
U.S. Treasury secretary and White House economic adviser, who
said it was his 20th annual IMF meeting.  Asian stocks fell today amid concern the European debt
crisis may weaken economic growth. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index
slid 1.2 percent to 110.38 at 11 a.m. in Tokyo, set for its
lowest close since June 2010.  Discussion of European governments’ options, including how
to use their 440 billion-euro ($596 billion) rescue fund,
dominated the policy meetings. Most European parliaments,
including Germany’s, still haven’t voted on a July 21 plan to
endow the fund with more powers, including the ability to buy
bonds and inject money into banks.  Geithner’s Plea  U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner urged
governments to unite with the  European Central Bank  to increase
the firepower of the fund, known as the European Financial
Stability Facility.  Failure to act carries the “threat of cascading default,
bank runs and catastrophic risk,” Geithner said in a Sept. 24
statement to the IMF, his strongest public lobbying yet. Bank of
Canada Governor  Mark Carney  said 1 trillion euros may be needed
and U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne set a Nov.
3-4 Group of 20 summit as the deadline for a solution.  European policy makers indicated they may use leverage, or
borrowed money, to increase the spending strength of the EFSF.
Klaus Regling, its CEO, and German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  downplayed speculation that the fund might borrow from
the European Central Bank or insure loans provided by the ECB 
directly to the private sector.  Finance officials this week will also discuss accelerating
the establishment of a permanent rescue to July 2012, a year
earlier than planned, according to a document prepared for the
meetings and obtained by Bloomberg News. ECB Governing Council
members Ewald Nowotny and Luc Coene said in interviews in
Washington that the bank may step up its own response next week.  Bankers Mingle  The Institute of International Finance, an organization of
more than 400 financial companies worldwide, holds its annual
meetings in parallel with the IMF’s. In normal times, the
private-sector bankers use the weekend to mingle with one
another, and with government ministers and central bankers,
trying to win business and get policy insight.  In some ways, this time was no different as bankers
hunkered down in hotels around Washington for meetings with
government clients and executives of other banks. JPMorgan and
 Citigroup Inc. (C) , both based in  New York , held cocktail parties.
Even  UBS AG (UBSN)  feted guests with champagne and dance music on Sept.
24, the same day CEO Oswald Gruebel, 67, resigned following the
bank’s announcement that it lost $2.3 billion on what it said
were “unauthorized” trades.  Compares With 1930s  Yet in private discussions, bankers said the environment
was exceptional. A senior European banker said he sees policy
makers’ decisions as being as momentous as those in the 1930s. A
senior U.S. bank executive said he’s more worried than he was at
any point during the financial crisis of 2008 and 2009.  About 1,000 people attended a Sept. 24 IIF dinner, which
featured a tribute to ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet, who’s
stepping down Oct. 31 and will be succeeded by Mario Draghi, the
governor of Italy’s central bank.  Guests dined on beef tenderloin stuffed with red chard,
dates and pine nuts, and truffled potato crepes. They heard
speeches about Trichet’s career and accomplishments from IIF
Chairman Josef Ackermann, who’s also CEO of Frankfurt-based
Deutsche Bank, as well as former Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker and Carney, the Bank of Canada governor.  The ECB’s policies in recent years, such as buying bonds
issued by weaker European nations and providing cash loans in
return for banks’ bond holdings, have helped provide support for
both governments and lenders. The policies also have stirred
discontent as two German members of the ECB’s governing council
resigned this year amid signs of growing disagreement about the
central bank’s efforts.  ECB Easing  IIF Chief Economist Philip Suttle told conference attendees
on Sept. 24 that solving the European crisis will require the
ECB to reduce  interest rates  to boost growth.  “You need the ECB to ease significantly, and that probably
means the euro needs to come down,” Suttle said.  Schaeuble, the German finance minister, addressed the same
room hours later with a contrasting message: “We won’t come to
grips with economies deleveraging by having governments and
central banks throwing -- literally -- even more money at the
problem,” he said.  At a panel discussion yesterday titled “Systemic Stability
and Global Financial Firms,” bank executives including Goldman
Sachs President Gary D. Cohn and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  CEO Robert E. Diamond, 60, discussed risk management and regulation without
addressing the European crisis directly.  Restore Confidence  After the discussion, Cohn was asked what he thinks
European leaders must do to restore investor confidence.  “The market needs to hear that they understand the depth
and breadth of the problem,” said Cohn, 51. “They just need to
convey to them that what they’re doing is big enough and
powerful enough to get the market’s attention.”  Modeling a European rescue after the U.S. Treasury
Department’s Troubled Asset Relief Program, which started
injecting capital into banks in 2008, “would be a good
solution,” he said.  Frederic Janbon, global head of fixed income at Paris-based
 BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA, said he hopes policy makers stick with
implementing the plan agreed to on July 21.  “Before we go to what we do after, we start by doing what
we promised before,” he said in an interview.  Deutsche Bank’s Ackermann urged European nations to approve
the 440 billion-euro rescue fund and to implement a bailout plan
for Greece that are part of an agreement reached on July 21.  ‘Seal the Deal’  “Our strong advice is to move on and seal the deal which
was agreed on in Brussels at the end of July,” Ackermann, 63,
said during a press conference yesterday. “To re-open that
debate would not be productive and definitely not stabilize the
turbulent situation we’re in.  JPMorgan Chief Economist Bruce Kasman, speaking a day
earlier, said the July 21 bailout plan for Greece isn’t going to
be enough to contain the crisis.  “Greece is insolvent and the European Monetary Union, the
European Union as a whole, needs to deal with that,” Kasman
said at a Sept. 24 panel discussion hosted by the IIF. “It
hasn’t yet come to terms with that.”  At the private gathering of bank CEOs on Sept. 23, which
was the first joint meeting of the IIF and the Financial
Services Forum, the executives spent part of the session getting
Carney’s views on the regulatory outlook. JPMorgan CEO  Jamie Dimon , 55, criticized regulators’ plans to require the biggest
banks to hold extra capital and got into a dispute with Carney,
said three people with knowledge of the encounter.  Joseph Evangelisti , a spokesman for JPMorgan, and  Jeremy Harrison , a spokesman for the Bank of Canada, declined to
comment on what was said at the meeting.  “More generally, we have been engaged in constructive
dialogue with a range of stakeholders, both domestic and
international, as we move forward through this financial-sector
reform process,” Harrison said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net 
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net 
Simon Kennedy in  Washington  at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  