-- 
Best-in-World Bond Rally Spurred by Risks of Recession: Australia Credit

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-09-26T00:19:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/best-in-world-bonds-spurred-by-recession-risks-australia-credit.html
Australian government bond yields
are dropping for a ninth month, the longest stretch since at
least 1978, as the securities generate the biggest returns of
any other major market amid concern the global economy will
slide back into recession.  The benchmark 10-year note’s yield fell 32 basis points
this month to 4.06 percent at 10:09 a.m. in Sydney, from 5.55
percent on Dec. 31. Ten-year Treasuries tumbled 38 this month to
1.84 percent while German bunds fell 47 to 1.75 percent.  Europe ’s inability to cope with its debts has pushed the
world to the brink of a financial crisis, Mohamed El-Erian, the
chief executive officer of Pacific Investment Management Co.,
which runs the world’s biggest bond fund, said Sept. 22. Global
stocks entered a  bear market  last week as the U.S. Federal
Reserve warned of “downside risks” to growth. Investors
betting Australia’s central bank will cut the developed world’s
highest benchmark rate sent yields on its two-year debt toward
the least relative to the U.S. this year.  “There’s almost a crisis of confidence in political
leadership in the U.S. and Europe,” said  Stephen Miller , a
managing director in Sydney at BlackRock Inc., which oversees
about $3.7 trillion. “There are knock-on effects for us and the
thing about Australia is that the  Reserve Bank  here has the
capacity to cut rates and cut them a long way should that be
required.”  Australian bonds returned 10.6 percent over the past 12
months, the most of 26 markets tracked by Bloomberg/EFFAS Bond
Indexes. Treasuries have gained 7 percent.  Rate-Cut Bets  Cash-rate futures show investors are betting Reserve Bank
of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  will cut the key rate to
4.03 percent by December from 4.75 percent currently. The RBA
slashed the benchmark to 3 percent from 7.25 percent between
September 2008 and April 2009 to counter the global credit
freeze that followed the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. in 2008.  Australia’s two-year yield slid 21 basis points this month
to 3.54 percent, or 332 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries. The 10-year rate fell below 4 percent on Sept. 23
for the first time since January 2009, the same month it reached
a record low 3.84 percent.  Yields on all Australian  government securities , including
the longest-dated bond maturing April 2023, have been lower than
the cash rate since Aug. 9.  Equities Bear Market  The MSCI All-Country World Index entered a bear market last
week for the first time in more than two years, retreating 20
percent since July 22. It fell after Standard & Poor’s cut the
U.S.’s credit rating in August following a debate over raising
the nation’s borrowing limit and as speculation intensified this
month that  Greece  will default, raising borrowing costs for
Spain and  Italy .  Stock markets pared some declines after Group of 20 finance
chiefs pledged Sept. 22 to provide a “strong and coordinated”
response to rising risks to the global economy and pushed Europe
to contain its sovereign debt crisis. Many urged Europe to
implement a July promise to expand the powers of a rescue fund,
Japanese Finance Minister Jun Azumi said.  Euro-area countries will do whatever is necessary to end
the crisis and ensure the financial stability of the entire euro
area and its members, the  International Monetary Fund  said in a
Sept. 24 statement after holding meetings in  Washington . The
fund’s $384 billion lending chest may not be enough to meet all
loan requests if the global economy worsens, Managing Director
 Christine Lagarde  said  in an “action plan” distributed to the
IMF steering committee the same day.  The IMF cut its forecasts for global growth Sept. 20 and
predicted “severe” repercussions if Europe fails to contain
its crisis or U.S. politicians deadlock over a fiscal plan.  ‘Less Vulnerable’  The world economy will expand 4 percent this year and next,
the IMF said, compared with June forecasts of 4.3 percent in
2011 and of 4.5 percent in 2012. The U.S. growth projection for
2011 was lowered to 1.5 percent from 2.5 percent in June.  Strategists predict Australia will grow 1.84 percent this
year and 4.25 percent in 2012 compared with 9.3 percent and 8.7
percent for  China , Australia’s largest trading partner. The  U.S.
economy  will expand 1.6 percent this year and 2.2 percent next
year, separate Bloomberg News surveys show.  “Domestic yields in the front end still look very
overpriced,” said Martin Whetton, an interest-rate strategist
at Nomura Holdings Inc. in Sydney. “As a base case, we do not
see the RBA cutting rates and so we see the front end under
pressure in any risk-on environment.”  Australia’s AAA long-term sovereign credit rating was
affirmed with a “stable” outlook,  Standard & Poor’s  said Sept.
23 in a statement.  Policy Flexibility  The rating reflects “the country’s ample fiscal and
monetary policy flexibility, economic resilience, public policy
stability, and its sound financial sector,” said Melbourne-
based Kyran Curry, a credit analyst at S&P. “We believe these
factors demonstrate Australia’s strong ability to absorb large
economic and financial shocks.”  Australia has become “less vulnerable” to slowdowns in
the U.S. over the past 15 years, RBA Deputy Governor Ric Battellino said Sept. 21. “There are reasonable grounds for
optimism,” he said.  Futures traders had bet Aug. 9 on a 92 percent chance the
Australian central bank would reduce its key rate to 4.25
percent at the Sept. 6 meeting. Policy makers left it unchanged
and said in minutes released Sept. 20 that they are well
positioned to respond to global and domestic economic risks or
the threat of an acceleration of inflation.  Corporate Spreads  Bond yields may advance if by “some miracle” policy
makers are able to revive market confidence, said Miller, who
holds the same proportion of Australian government debt in his
portfolios as the benchmarks they track.  The gap between yields on Australian  government bonds  and
inflation-indexed notes shows investors estimate consumer-price
gains to average 2.46 percent for the next five years, near to
the lowest in more than a year and down from 2011’s peak of 3.14
percent on May 6.  The spread between the interest Australian banks pay when
borrowing from each other for three months and swaps tracking
expectations for the RBA’s benchmark fell two basis points today
to 36 basis points. The gap, a gauge of banks’ difficulty in
accessing funds, closed at 61 on Aug. 8, the highest since
January 2009.  Default-Swaps Climb  The perceived riskiness of Australian corporate bonds
soared to the highest since July 2009, according to traders of
credit-default swaps.  The Markit iTraxx  Australia  index rose 40 basis points last
week to 213, according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market. The gauge closed at 217 on Sept. 22, the
highest since July 13, 2009, the CMA prices show.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Australian company
bonds instead of government debt surged 14 basis points last
week to 229, matching the highest since November 2009, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s Australian Corporate and Collateralized
Index shows.  “There might be some tinkering at the edges by central
banks and politicians but the fundamentals remain high
unemployment in the U.S. and Europe, and Asian growth slowing,”
said Mat McCrum, the investment director at Melbourne-based
Omega Global Investors Pty, which manages A$1.1 billion. “There
is no engine for world growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net . 