-- 
Betting on Bernanke Yields 28% Returns for Treasuries

-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-09-26T12:10:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/betting-on-bernanke-returns-28-for-treasuries-as-twist-divides-investors.html
Betting on  Ben S. Bernanke  has been
the most profitable trade for government bond investors in 16
years, defying lawmakers in the U.S. and abroad who said the
Federal Reserve chairman’s policies would lead to runaway
inflation and the dollar’s debasement.  Treasuries due in 10 or more years have returned 28 percent
in 2011, exceeding the 24.4 percent gain in all of 2008 during
worst financial crisis since the Great Depression, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. Not since 1995, when the
securities soared 30.7 percent, have investors done so well
owning longer-dated U.S. government debt.  The rally continued last week, driving yields to record
lows, as the Fed said it would exchange $400 billion of short-
term Treasuries for those maturing in more than six years. The
move, dubbed Operation Twist by traders, is designed to lower
borrowing costs and keep the economy growing. Previous Fed
efforts unlocked credit markets and helped ward off deflation.  Bonds are producing “monster” gains, said Mitchell Stapley, the  Grand Rapids , Michigan-based chief fixed-income
officer for Fifth Third Asset Management, which oversees $22
billion, in a Sept. 19 telephone interview. “I’m dealing with a
Federal Reserve with an unlimited balance sheet that is
desperately looking for something to do to revive the economy.”  Unexpected Rally  With the U.S. budget deficit exceeding $1 trillion, this
year’s rally caught investors by surprise. The lowest forecast
among 71 economists and strategists surveyed by Bloomberg News
from Jan. 3 to Jan. 11 was for 10-year yields to end this
quarter at 2.35 percent, and the median estimate was 3.63
percent. They closed at 1.83 percent last week.  While a financial model created by Fed economists that
includes expectations for interest rates, growth and inflation
indicates 10-year notes are the most overvalued on record,
investors say they can’t afford to not own  government bonds .  That’s because stocks and other assets are falling as
 Europe ’s debt crisis deepens, the global economy slows and the
Fed commits to keep its target rate for overnight loans between
banks at a zero to 0.25 percent through mid-2013.  “The flight-to-safety bid is still fierce,” said Wan- Chong Kung, a bond fund manager in  Minneapolis  at Nuveen Asset
Management, which oversees more than $100 billion, in a Sept. 19
telephone interview. “The fundamentals of very modest growth,
modest inflation and a Fed that wants to commit to low rates for
a long time continue to be supportive.”  Yields Tumble  Treasury 10-year yields fell 21 basis points, or 0.21
percentage point, last week as the price of the benchmark
2.125 percent security due August 2021 rose 1 30/32, or $19.38
per $1,000 face amount, to 102 20/32. The yield touched a record
low of 1.6714 percent on Sept. 23. Thirty-year rates tumbled 41
basis points to 2.90 percent.  Ten-year notes yielded 1.85 percent and 30-year rates were
2.92 percent at 8:06 a.m. in  New York .  Almost all of the rally in long-term Treasuries this year
has come since the end of June, with the securities returning
24.9 percent. That’s the biggest quarterly gain since at least
1978, when the Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes began
tracking the debt.  Treasuries of all maturities have returned 9.3 percent this
year, including reinvested interest, beating 2010’s 5.9 percent
as Bernanke led the Fed in a second round of bond purchases,
buying $600 billion of debt from November 2010 through June in a
process known as quantitative easing.  Beating Stocks  That’s more than the 5.2 percent return for the global  bond
market , 3.9 percent for company debt and 5.6 percent for U.S.
mortgage securities, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show.
Gold has gained about 19 percent, while the MSCI AC World Index
of stocks has lost 14.2 percent, including dividends.  The term premium, which Bernanke cited in a 2006 speech in
New York as a useful guide in setting monetary policy, shows
Treasuries may be poised to fall. The measure declined to
negative 0.67 percent on Sept. 22, indicating the notes are
expensive when compared with the average 0.84 percent this
decade through mid-2007, just before credit markets froze.  “These low yields spook investors,” said Larry Milstein,
a managing director of government and agency debt trading at
R.W. Pressprich & Co., in a telephone interview Sept. 23. The
New York-based firm is a fixed-income broker and dealer for
institutional investors.  Republicans sent Bernanke a letter last week, asking him
not to do “further harm” to the economy by adding more
monetary stimulus. After cutting rates, the Fed started buying
bonds to inject cash into the economy, purchasing $2.3 trillion
of government and mortgage-related securities from November 2008
through June.  Republican Critics  “Although the goal of quantitative easing was, in part, to
stabilize the price level against deflationary fears, the
 Federal Reserve ’s actions have likely led to more fluctuations
and uncertainty in our already weak economy,” according to the
message signed by House Speaker John Boehner of Ohio, Senate
Minority Leader Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, Senator Jon Kyl of
Arizona and House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  of  Virginia .  The letter is similar to one Boehner and three other
Republicans sent Bernanke about a year ago expressing “deep
concerns” about the Fed’s plan to print money to buy bonds,
saying the central bank risked weakening the dollar and fueling
asset bubbles.  Foreign leaders also criticized the policy. Chinese Premier
Wen Jiabao said the plan had caused a “major problem” leading
to instability in the currency market, and German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said the policy was “clueless.”  Avoiding Deflation  While the Fed failed to reduce the  unemployment rate  below
9 percent, the second round of quantitative easing, or QE2,
warded off deflation, which can damage an economy by
discouraging investment. Consumer prices excluding food and
energy rose 2 percent in the 12 months ended Aug. 30, compared
with 0.6 percent in October 2010, the smallest increase since at
least 1958, government data show.  Rather than collapsing, the dollar has risen 2.6 percent to
78.501 against the currencies of six major U.S. trading partners
including the euro and yen, since the Fed announced QE2 in
November, based on IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index.  “I’m not sure the Republicans’ grasp of the Fed and
everything that goes with it is particularly strong,” said
 David Ader , head of U.S. government bond strategy at CRT Capital
Group LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , in a Sept. 22 telephone
interview. “The data confirms the Fed’s concerns. If there’s
uncertainty and a lack of confidence, the focal point is not at
the Federal Reserve, but much more in the hands of the people
that wrote this letter.”  Unfreezing Credit  QE2 followed QE1, which was designed to inject money into
the financial system to help unfreeze credit markets. Corporate
bond sales worldwide soared to $3.9 trillion in 2009, from $2.9
trillion in 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Demand for Treasuries has been fueled by data showing the
economy almost stalled in the first half of 2011, and added no
jobs in August, keeping unemployment at 9.1 percent. The
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development cut its
forecast for growth in the U.S. on Sept. 8 to 1.1 percent this
quarter and 0.4 percent in last three months of the year. Its
prior estimates were 2.9 percent and 3 percent.  “This is beginning to look like more of a systematically
low-interest-rate world,” said Robert Tipp, the chief
investment strategist in Newark,  New Jersey  at Prudential Fixed
Income, which oversees $300 billion in bonds, in a Sept. 20
telephone interview. “The outcome for Treasuries is likely to
be favorable over the next year or so, unless you get much
stronger than expected economic growth.”  ‘Significant’ Risks  At the close of its two-day meeting Sept. 21, the Federal
Open Market Committee cited “significant downside risks” in
the  U.S. economy  and said it will buy bonds due in six to 30
years through June while selling an equal amount of debt
maturing in three years or less. The purchases “should put
downward pressure on longer-term  interest rates  and help make
broader financial conditions more accommodative,” the Fed said
in its statement.  Policy makers last week also announced a measure to support
the mortgage market by reinvesting maturing housing debt into
mortgage-backed securities instead of U.S. government debt.  Even with the rally, the difference between 10- and 30-year
Treasury bond yields, at 1.07 percentage points, remains wider
than its average of about 0.5 percentage point during the past
two decades. That suggests the gains in longer-term debt have
scope to continue, said Michael Materasso, senior portfolio
manager and co-chairman of the fixed-income policy committee at
Franklin Templeton Investments in New York, in a Sept. 22
telephone interview. The firm oversees $298 billion of bonds.  “There’s more than one  fund manager  that wishes they had a
lot more allocated to Treasuries,” said Jeff Given, part of a
group that manages $18 billion of bonds at MFC Global Investment
LLC in  Boston , in a Sept. 23 telephone interview. “They did
much better than anybody would have predicted.’”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  