-- 
Boeing Sees 787 as Jet Lineup’s ‘Backbone’ With Delay Ending

-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 
2011-09-26T13:50:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/boeing-dreamliner-ends-3-year-delay-with-all-nippon-s-signature.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  hands over the first 787
Dreamliner today to end more than three years of delays for a
plane that the company says will become a benchmark for decades
for technology and passenger amenities.  All Nippon Airways Co. will take delivery at a ceremony in
Everett,  Washington , of the first jetliner with a fuselage made
of carbon-fiber reinforced plastic materials. Struggles with
those composites and manufacturing process pushed back the jet’s
entry into service seven times since 2007.  Boeing is counting on the Dreamliner to help it reclaim the
top spot in industry sales lost to Airbus SAS in 2003. The
composite body is lighter than traditional aluminum, cutting
fuel use, and upgrades such as LED lighting and larger windows
are designed to improve passengers’ in-flight experience.  “We’ve developed a set of technologies that will serve as
the backbone of our airplanes for the next 30 years,” Scott Fancher, the 787 program chief, told reporters yesterday at a
briefing in Everett.  The twin-engine 787 is Chicago-based Boeing’s best-selling
new jet ever, with 821 orders from 56 customers. Boeing is
working to boost production to 10 a month, a record for wide-
body aircraft, after the setbacks increased costs, sent 787
inventory ballooning to $16.2 billion through June and upset
airlines’ timetables for adding new routes.  Carriers have penalty clauses written into contracts for
late deliveries. All Nippon has worked with Boeing to receive
 767s and 777s  to blunt the effect of not getting the 787 in May
2008 as planned. Satoru Fujiki, All Nippon’s senior vice
president for the Americas, declined to give financial details.  ‘Quite Confident’  “We have waited three years, and finally we have reached
first delivery,” Fujiki told reporters yesterday in Everett.
“We are quite confident in Boeing’s ability” to meet delivery
targets as production ratchets up.  The 55 787s on order at All Nippon would make the Tokyo-
based airline the biggest operator of the plane. It plans to
offer the first passenger flight on Oct. 26 as a special trip
between  Tokyo  and  Hong Kong .  The jets will start on shorter routes within  Japan , because
the first ones are overweight and not as fuel-efficient, Fujiki
said. Regular domestic service will start Nov. 1 between Haneda
and Okayama and Hiroshima, followed by intercontinental service
between Haneda and  Frankfurt  in January after the carrier
receives several more of the planes.  Share Performance  Boeing rose $1.06, or 1.8 percent, to $60.57 at 9:47 a.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares fell 41
percent before today since the initial 787 delay was announced
almost four years ago.  “I’m sleeping better than I have been for awhile,” said
Dan Mooney, Boeing’s vice president of development for the 787-
8, the initial Dreamliner variant being built. “But our next
challenge is getting that production system stable.”  The Dreamliner is Boeing’s first new jet in 16 years, after
the 777, the planemaker’s biggest twin-engine aircraft. The
company doesn’t expect to develop another new plane until next
decade, after deciding in July to upgrade the engines on the 737
instead of building a replacement jet.  The 787 promises to be 20 percent cheaper to operate than
comparably sized jets, due to the lightweight materials and a
new all-electric system that doesn’t divert air from the engines
for power. Boeing is marketing the plane, which seats 210 to 290
people, for long-haul routes such as Tokyo-New York that have
been the domain of larger aircraft.  ‘Biggest Challenges’  “This airplane is positioned to capitalize on one of the
biggest challenges in aviation -- the operating cost of fuel and
maintenance,” Fancher said. “This is positioned to challenge
those head-on.”  The 787’s new Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc engine, an option
along with a  General Electric Co. (GE)  model, collects data every few
seconds and transmits it so parts can be waiting for any repairs
at the plane’s next stop, according to the London-based
manufacturer.  Boeing drew from a decade of research by psychologists and
architects to make  air travel  more comfortable for passengers
with the 787.  The bigger windows feature dimming glass that replaces
window shades; bigger luggage bins that still allow for more
headroom; and LED lighting that highlights new archways. Because
plastics don’t corrode like metals, cabin air can have more
humidity and be kept at a higher pressure, so travelers feel
they’re at a lower altitude than on other planes.  Boeing will continue to refine the 787’s interior, said
Kent Craver, regional director of passenger satisfaction and
revenue for Boeing.  “This is going to be the new baseline for all future
airplanes,” Craver said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  