-- 
Shell’s Arrow Unit Wins Bow Energy After Sweetening Offer to $524 Million

-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-09-26T07:17:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/bow-recommends-improved-offer-of-a-1-52-a-share-from-arrow.html
Arrow Energy Ltd., owned by  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and PetroChina Co., agreed to buy  Bow Energy Ltd. (BOW) 
after sweetening its offer to A$535 million ($516 million),
gaining resources for a natural gas project in Australia.  The coal-seam gas explorer and producer in Queensland state
increased its cash offer to A$1.52 a share from A$1.48,
Brisbane-based Bow said in a statement today. That’s 72 percent
more than the stock’s price of 88.5 cents in Sydney trading
before Arrow made its initial offer on Aug. 22.  Arrow plans the fourth liquefied natural gas venture in
Queensland to meet rising Asian demand for the fuel, following
approvals for more than $50 billion in developments led by BG
Group Plc, Santos Ltd. and ConocoPhillips. The acquisition may
allow Arrow to expand output at the venture’s first two units,
or trains, by as much as 15 percent, the company said today.  “These big LNG project developers will need more gas” to
underpin additional processing units, Ivor Ries, an analyst at
E.L. & C. Baillieu Stockbroking Ltd., said by telephone today
from  Melbourne . “We’ll see more consolidation.”  Bow rose 0.3 percent to A$1.465 at 4:10 p.m. in Sydney. Bow
has gained 66 percent since Aug. 19 on the Australian stock
exchange, before Brisbane-based Arrow made its initial offer.  ‘Good Deal’  The Arrow accord values Bow at about 16 cents a gigajoule
of proven, probable and possible reserves, compared with an
average of about 50 cents a gigajoule for Australian coal-seam
gas transactions over the past two years,  Andrew Williams , an
analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in Melbourne, said by phone.  “This is a very good deal for Arrow,” Williams said.  The Arrow LNG venture may cost more than $20 billion to
develop, Deutsche Bank AG estimated in a Sept. 23 report. Bow
had been the subject of takeover speculation since Santos,
 Australia ’s third-largest oil and gas producer, agreed in July
to pay about A$730 million to buy the shares in coal-seam gas
explorer Eastern Star Gas Ltd. it didn’t already own.  “Our project is proceeding quite nicely on our existing
reserves,” Andrew Faulkner, Arrow’s chief executive officer,
said in a phone interview today. The transaction provides “the
opportunity to take that project to the next level, to expand
the train size and to strengthen our reserves base,” he said.  The Bow deal may allow Arrow to expand the size of each of
the first two LNG processing units on  Curtis Island  to as much
as 4.6 million metric tons of the fuel a year from the current
plan of 4 million tons a year, Faulkner said. Arrow is on track
to make a final  investment decision  in late 2013, he said.  ‘Superior Bid’  Bow’s board recommends that shareholders vote in favor of
the proposal in the absence of a “superior” bid, according to
the statement. The accord is subject to regulatory approvals in
Australia and  China , and Bow shareholders are due to vote on the
deal in December, the companies said in separate statements.  Bow said it is being advised by Bank of America Corp. and
Wilson HTM Investment Group, while Arrow said it named JPMorgan
Chase & Co. as a financial adviser.  The offer “absolutely reflects the underlying value of
Bow’s assets and resources,” Arrow’s Faulkner said in the
interview. “The price acknowledges the volatility and the
technical and commercial uncertainties that are out there.”  The coal-seam gas industry on the east coast of Australia
“must repair damage and rebuild the trust” of communities amid
criticism from environmental groups who say the drilling of
wells may contaminate water supplies, Elaine Prior, a Citigroup
Inc. analyst in Sydney, said in a Sept. 21 report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Paton  in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 