-- 
Brazil’s Real Won’t Decline Much More, Itau CEO Setubal Says

-- B y   F a b i o l a   M o u r a
-- 
2011-09-25T18:59:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/brazil-s-real-won-t-decline-much-more-itau-ceo-setubal-says.html
Roberto Setubal, chief executive
officer of  Itau Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB4) ,  Latin America ’s largest
bank, comments on the Brazilian currency’s decline, the
country’s default rate and its exposure to the European credit
crisis. Setubal made the remarks to reporters in  Washington 
today, during meetings of the  International Monetary Fund .  On the real foreign-exchange rate:  “Is the foreign-exchange rate a concern? No, it is not a
concern. Foreign-exchange rate fluctuation is natural in moments
of high volatility in the world. The tendency is not of a big
devaluation,” he said, referring to the real.  On the effects of the European debt crisis in  Brazil :  “The effect in Brazil won’t be direct because Brazil has
very little financial exposition to  Europe  and is not exposed to
direct risk from the countries.”  “Brazil will be indirectly affected, throughout time, as
global economic growth falls. This will tend to reduce commodity
prices, and will certainly affect Brazil and require certain
adjustments.”  “Brazil is not vulnerable due to a very solid
macroeconomic situation, with a lot of maneuvering space. Maybe
exchange rates will devalue a little bit more if commodities
fall, but in general it is a calm situation in Brazil.”  On Brazilian consumers’ default rates:  “The fall in interest rates obviously help clients service
their debts, there is no question, so this is positive. A lower
interest-rate scenario is a more favorable scenario to lower
default rates.”  “We are well below the historic peaks of default rates.
From now on, the reduction of  interest rates  will help, and we
already see a tendency of a drop in defaults. The short-term
numbers, of up to 90 days, are already starting to fall.”  On Brazil’s government fiscal target:  “Until now, the government has shown very solid fiscal
numbers this year. Much beyond the market expectations, beyond
the target. This gives me confidence that the fiscal numbers
this year will be met with high efficiency and, I am confident
the numbers for next year will be very good too.”  On Brazilian companies selling debt abroad:  “It is very easy for Brazil to raise money abroad, there
is no question about that. The general situation on Brazilian
companies and banks getting financing abroad is very calm, with
no difficulties.”  On what should be done to restore confidence in Europe:  “Liquidity is an important issue. At this moment of such
stress, it is important to keep broad liquidity in the system.
The issue in  Greece  took on proportions that it should not have
taken and requires a lot of attention and a lot of
cautiousness.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabiola Moura in New York at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at 
 swier@bloomberg.net  