-- 
Carney Speech to the Institute of International Finance (Text)

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-09-25T12:19:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/carney-speech-to-the-institute-of-international-finance-text-.html
Following is the text of Bank of
Canada Governor  Mark Carney ’s speech in  Washington  to the
 Institute of International Finance . The document was released
today in Ottawa. Several footnotes have been removed.  Thank you for the invitation to speak today. In the hope of
addressing some of your concerns, I waded through the more than
1,000 pages of reports and notes that the Institute of
International Finance (IIF) has produced over the past year. Your
messages have been consistent, if not always concise, so I would
like to focus on three particular concerns about the financial
reform agenda you have recently expressed:  1. the consistency in implementation across jurisdictions;  2. the possibility of substantial regulatory arbitrage in the  shadow banking system; and  3. the macroeconomic impact of the reforms.  Before I do, allow me a general observation.  The G-20 is undertaking a radical and comprehensive program
to strengthen the regulation, supervision and infrastructure of
the global financial system. Its ambition can hardly be a
surprise. Four years ago, manifest deficiencies in capital
adequacy, liquidity buffers and risk management led to the
collapse of some of the most storied names in finance and
triggered the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression.
The complete loss of confidence in private finance--your
membership--could only be arrested by the provision of
comprehensive backstops by the richest economies in the world.
With about $4 trillion in output and almost 28 million jobs lost
in the ensuing recession, the case for reform was clear then and
remains so today.  Let me now turn to your issues.  Consistency in Implementation  Authorities are increasingly hearing concerns about the
pitch of the playing field for Basel III implementation. Everyone
is claiming to be a boy scout while accusing others of juvenile
delinquency. However, neither merit badges nor detentions will be
self-selected but, rather, determined by impartial peer review
and mutual oversight.  It is important to remember that the Basel rules have always
been, and continue to be, international minimums, rather than a
“one-size-fits-all” approach. There are legitimate reasons why
implementation may differ across countries.  Some countries will implement Basel III faster than others.
The current transition period to 2019 for Basel III has been
variously described as enlightened, leisurely and generous. It
reflects a lowest-common-denominator compromise that gives the
time needed to rebuild capital buffers in those crisis economies
that are furthest from compliance. Some countries may decide it
is not in their best interests to take full advantage of this
flexibility.  Indeed, how quickly the new rules are adopted is bound to be
a function of both the current health of the financial system and
the macrofinancial environment in each jurisdiction. In  Canada ,
we expect banks to be fully compliant with Basel III (2019
definitions) by early in the transition period, which starts in
January 2013.
This reflects the strong starting positions of Canadian banks and
the benefits of building capital in the face of currently buoyant
credit expansion.  Some will adopt tougher rules. Countries such as  Sweden ,
 Switzerland  and the United Kingdom, with very large banking
sectors relative to their domestic economies, have signalled
their preference for higher loss-absorbency capacity. In these
jurisdictions, since the failure of a major bank would have
disproportionately large consequences, additional prudence is
desirable.  Finally, there will always be countries that opt for a
tighter interpretation of the rules, even as they adhere to the
international minimum standards. For example, national
supervisors may take a more conservative approach to approving
bank internal risk measurement systems under the advanced
measurement approach of  Basel II .  I would stress that in order to foster a race to the top,
Basel III permits better rules, but it is a minimum standard. As
the IIF has emphasised, it is vital that we prevent regulatory
fragmentation. In this regard, there are several new measures
that will help to contain unwarranted differences in
implementation across countries. For example, the new leverage
ratio acts as a backstop that effectively limits differences in
risk weights. Speaking from experience, we in Canada know that
the leverage ratio protects banks from risks that people think
are low but are, in fact, high.  In addition, policy-makers are significantly enhancing the
mutual-surveillance processes that each jurisdiction accepts as
part of its membership on the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision  (BCBS). In particular, the Financial Stability Board
(FSB) and the standard-setting bodies, including the Basel
Committee, are jointly developing an implementation-monitoring
framework that will coordinate activities and include annual
progress reports on a country-by-country basis to the FSB and G-
20, as well as less frequent, but more in-depth, peer reviews.  Ad hoc reviews of new legislation and regulations could also
be conducted. In this regard, a review by the BCBS of new
European and American rules would be welcome to build confidence
today in the consistency of application in major jurisdictions.  Coordinated FSB/BCBS monitoring mechanisms will be in
addition to the International Monetary Fund’s (IMF) annual
Article IV surveillance and the IMF and  World Bank ’s periodic
independent assessments across countries of compliance with
international standards.  All in all, while there will be legitimate reasons for some
countries to adopt standards more quickly or to go beyond
international minimums, there will be much less scope in the
future for countries to give their banks a competitive advantage
by not fully implementing the agreed global rules.  If some jurisdictions do not comply, I am certain that you
will let us know. The IIF’s commitment to fair application and
peer review would complement official initiatives, and I urge you
to develop a more formal approach.  In the end, it is in your interests to comply. While there
will be periods of exuberance during which aggressive banks and
jurisdictions can sail close to the wind, financial history
suggests that well-capitalised institutions and transparent
systems will ultimately have premium ratings, valuations and
outcomes.  Regulatory Arbitrage  Let me turn to your second issue: regulatory arbitrage.  There are valid concerns that the recent measures will push
risk into shadow banking. Even as reforms make the core of the
financial system more resilient, they increase incentives to move
classic banking activities, such as maturity transformation and
credit intermediation, to the unregulated periphery.  This tendency is of particular concern, given the role the
shadow banking sector played in the run-up to the crisis. In the
final years of the boom, when complacency about liquidity reached
its zenith, the scale of shadow banking activity exploded. The
value of structured investment vehicles, for example, tripled in
the three years to 2007, and credit default swaps grew sixfold.  The feedback to the regulated sector was pernicious.
Financial institutions, including many banks, had come to rely on
high levels of market and funding liquidity. For instance, short-
term money markets, particularly repo markets, were the
predominant source of financing for the one-third increase in the
gross leverage of American investment banks, as well as British
and European banks. The system’s exposure to market confidence
was enormous.  The crisis exposed how boom-bust liquidity cycles cascade
through the shadow banking sector and reverberate on the
regulated core. Market forces proved inadequate to manage these
swings between confidence and despair.  Today, despite the fact that shadow banking, or as we prefer
to call it, market-based financing (MBF), is at least as large as
the regulated sector in most jurisdictions, it is often
unregulated and/or overseen by authorities without a systemic
focus. This should change.  As it does, regulation and supervision must strike a balance
between mitigating systemic risks and realizing the benefits from
financial deepening. Properly structured, shadow banking can
increase efficiency, provide diversification, and spur
competition and innovation. It has the potential to make the
system more robust, provided it does not rely on the regulated
sector for liquidity or pretend to provide it with liquidity in
times of stress. However, experience also teaches that shadow
banking activities mutate, usually through complex and highly
leveraged instruments, into regulatory gaps created by the
response to the last crisis.  With all of this in mind, there are four broad categories of
regulatory initiatives under consideration. The first, and most
important, is indirect regulation through limits on the size and
nature of banks’ exposure to shadow banking entities. Examples
include tighter consolidation rules for bank-sponsored conduits
and higher risk-based  capital requirements  for liquidity lines.
These measures will help to reduce opportunities for regulatory
arbitrage, in which banks seek to reduce capital or liquidity
requirements by organising transactions wholly or in part through
shadow banking entities while retaining much of the underlying
tail risk.  The second approach would try to address systemic risks in
shadow banking directly. For example, macroprudential measures
are being considered to address procyclical haircut and
collateral rules for  securities lending  and repo transactions.
These measures could do much to dampen liquidity cycles.  Contagion could be further constrained by strengthening
financial market infrastructure. In Canada, in the coming months,
a central counterparty (CCP) for repo transactions will be
launched. This repo CCP will strengthen counterparty credit risk
management, reduce collateral and balance sheet requirements via
netting, and reduce the impact if there were a failure of one of
its participants. By helping to ensure that core funding markets
are continuously open, the heart of the financial system will be
more resilient to shocks.  The third approach is to regulate shadow banking activities
themselves, such as money markets and exchange-traded funds
(ETFs), through disclosure obligations or restrictions on certain
financial transactions and instruments. This will require dynamic
monitoring of the financial system and coordination across
authorities.  Finally, the FSB is examining the possible regulation of
shadow banking entities, such as  hedge funds , that may pose
systemic risks by limiting their maturity transformation and
leverage. This last option should take into account the relative
size of these institutions and the cumulative impact of other
measures.  Whatever decisions are taken in the coming months, no one
should be tempted to declare “mission accomplished.” In order to
maintain systemic resilience, the monitoring, supervision and
regulation of shadow banking will need to be dynamic.  The recent loss incurred by UBS on its Delta One trading
desk demonstrates the need for vigilant risk management of
complex new products. Fortunately for the system, the loss was
manageable, given the increased capital buffer at the bank, and a
broader liquidity squeeze was avoided. The FSB has been prescient
in highlighting the risks associated with synthetic ETFs.
Synthetic ETFs are sometimes being used to fund illiquid
collateral which, if financed on a bank’s balance sheet, would
carry a higher risk weight. The potential for a procyclical
liquidity cycle needs to be monitored carefully.  Reform of the shadow banking sector offers an opportunity to
ensure the consistency of the overall financial reform package.
For example, capital rules will have to balance risks to
institutions with the benefits of incentivizing direct and
indirect settlement of standardized derivatives through CCPs.
Liquidity standards and market infrastructure should reinforce
the continuous availability of core funding markets. In this
manner, both systemic resiliency and efficiency can increase.  As authorities examine measures on a comprehensive, system-
wide basis, adjustments may need to be made. Liquidity standards
are one example. The Basel Committee and the Committee on the
Global Financial System (CGFS) are currently using the
observation period to review contentious design issues concerning
the Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR), such as uncertainty regarding
how the liquid assets can be used in times of stress, and how the
liquidity rules are supposed to operate in tandem with the new
 leverage ratio  requirement. They are also examining potential
unintended consequences on the commercial paper market and
market-making for equities. The FSB’s work on shadow banking will
shed more light on the intersection among these standards, key
markets and economic performance.  These issues need to be addressed before the new rules are
fully implemented. There would appear to be little value in
delaying decisions on potential amendments to the LCR beyond
early in the new year. Work on the Net Stable Funding Ratio
(NFSR) will take longer.  Macroeconomic Implications of Financial Reform  Let me now turn to your third, most fundamental, concern.
Based on the current challenging economic outlook, some argue
that we should revisit the pace and breadth of financial reforms.
This position is based on two questionable propositions.  The first is that the prospect of financial reforms is
contributing to current economic weakness. A corollary is that
delayed implementation of the Basel III capital rules, for
example, will somehow strengthen the recovery.  Really?  Weak credit growth in the crisis economies is often cited as
supporting evidence. However, the fact that household credit is
flat to falling in the  United States  and the  United Kingdom  can
hardly be a surprise. American and British households are
overleveraged. With personal net worth substantially lower
following the crisis, the need to rebuild balance sheets in an
environment of economic uncertainty is quite naturally weighing
on credit demand. In the vast array of countries that did not
experience a home-grown financial crisis, the issue has been that
household borrowing has been too robust, despite adherence to a
common timetable for implementing Basel III. The issue in the
crisis economies is primarily one of demand, not supply.  More broadly, the G-20’s comprehensive reform program seeks
to boost confidence in global financial institutions and markets
by providing a path to a more resilient system and an end to
government support. It is hard to see how backsliding would help.
Indeed, at a time when the conviction of policymakers across a
range of issues is being called into question, there appears to
be little value in feeding this concern.  Moreover, recall that the implementation timetable for Basel
III begins in two years and ends in 2019. It is difficult to
believe that prolonging this implementation phase even further
would have a material impact on real economic outcomes. If some
institutions feel pressure today, it is because they have done
too little for too long, rather than because they are being asked
to do too much, too soon.  The second proposition is that, once implemented, the
reforms will substantially reduce global growth. A recently
released IIF report estimates output losses during the transition
phase that are more than an order of magnitude greater than those
produced by the  Bank for International Settlements , the  Bank of
Canada , the IMF and other public institutions and academic
bodies.  Allow me to raise a few of the many problems with the IIF’s
analysis. The IIF study assumes banks pay out most of their
earnings and therefore must rely heavily on external sources to
raise capital. Debt-fuelled consumption is a central driver of
output growth in its econometric model, despite the obvious bias
to reduce debt in most major economies.  Monetary policy  is
assumed to be in suspended animation until 2020. While I would
welcome the time off, this presumption is inconsistent both with
the range of unconventional tools that central banks have and the
medium-term prospects for the global economy. The estimated
impact of the reforms on the cost of bank debt exceeds the
increase experienced during the crisis! It is hard to see how
more capital, better liquidity and stronger infrastructure would
lead to such a result. Put differently, the IIF is suggesting
that the current public subsidy of the financial sector is
massive.  Finally, the analysis assumes that all of these reform
efforts are for naught as it includes none of the benefits. Given
the recent experience, no one would argue that financial crises
are without costs, and only the most jaded would argue that their
probability and severity cannot be reduced.  Countries like Canada and  Australia , with well-capitalized
and well-managed banks, did not experience any failures or
bailouts. Partly as a consequence, their economies have
substantially outperformed those of their advanced-economy peers.
Our estimates indicate that even if Basel III were to reduce
slightly the probability of such crises in the future, the
potential gains would far exceed the cost of marginally slower
growth. The Bank of Canada estimates a net present value of Basel
III for G-20 economies is 30 per cent of GDP in present-value
terms, or about $US13 trillion.  In short, while the worsening global economic outlook has
implications for bank performance, it does not provide a
rationale for delaying the implementation of Basel III.  Conclusion  To conclude, critics of reform generally succumb to three
world-weary arguments:  * any rule will be arbitraged;  * any insurance will promote greater risk taking; and  * there will always be financial crises.  Such fatalism should be rejected. In no other aspect of
human endeavour do men and women not strive to learn and to
improve. The sad experience of the past few years shows that
there is ample scope to improve the efficiency and resilience of
the global financial system. By clarity of purpose and resolute
implementation, we can do so. The current reform initiatives mark
real progress.  The fundamental objective of the G-20 measures is a
resilient, global financial system that efficiently supports
global growth. Our destination should be one where financial
institutions and markets play critical--and complementary--roles
to support long-term economic prosperity.  This requires institutions that are adequately capitalized,
with sufficient liquidity buffers to manage shocks. It also
requires that market forces be allowed to determine the relative
sizes and boundaries of the banking and shadow banking sectors;
and that the market decides which firms prosper and which firms
fail.  The FSB has a clear role to oversee and coordinate the
development of the G-20 reforms. It should provide a system-wide
perspective and assess the total impact of reforms. It must
strive to resolve any conflicts that may arise between
regulations that are locally optimal but systemically
inconsistent. It must balance the need to guard against
regulatory arbitrage with the value of preserving diverse risk-
taking strategies and productive innovation. Finally, it must
ensure consistent implementation across jurisdictions to build an
open and competitive system.  It is also important not to lose sight of the limitations of
regulation. New and better rules are necessary, but not
sufficient. People will always try to find ways around them. Some
may succeed, for a while. That is why good supervision is
paramount. Rules are only as good as the supervisors who enforce
them, and good supervisors look beyond the letter of the rules to
their spirit.  Of course, belief by the industry in the appropriateness of
the measures will also aid their application. As you are well
aware, you have the ultimate duty to ensure your institutions
bear responsibly the risks you are taking. We have all learned
from the events of the past few years, and so I look forward to a
continued constructive dialogue with the IIF as we develop and
implement this vital agenda.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  