-- 
Carney Says Delaying Financial Regulations Won't Aid Recovery

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-09-25T12:15:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/carney-says-delaying-financial-regulations-won-t-aid-recovery.html
Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  told a banking group that new financial-market
regulations won’t hobble the global economic recovery, citing
the recent UBS AG trading loss of $2.3 billion as an example
of why greater controls are needed.  The Basel III regulations, which need to be implemented
by 2019, give countries with weaker economies time for a
smooth transition, Carney, 46, said in the text of a speech
he’s giving today to the  Institute of International Finance 
in  Washington . The IIF’s research overstated the potential
losses to output from the new rules, he said.  “The implementation timetable for Basel III begins in
two years and ends in 2019,” Carney said in the speech. “It
is difficult to believe that prolonging this implementation
phase even further would have a material impact on real
economic outcomes.”  Carney said that historically well-capitalized banks
have been rewarded with better valuations.  “In the end, it is in your interest to comply,” Carney
said. Arguments that companies will seek to bend the rules or
that financial crises can’t be avoided is a “fatalism” that
“should be rejected,” he said.  “In no other aspect of human endeavour do men and women
not strive to learn and to improve,” Carney said. “The sad
experience of the past few years shows that there is ample
scope to improve the efficiency and resilience of the global
financial system.”  Since July 2010, Carney has led a Bank for International
Settlements committee that monitors risks in global financial
markets for central bank leaders. This weekend he joined with
other Group of 20 policy makers in asking European leaders to
stem investor concerns that high government and bank debt
will trigger a new recession.  Carney said the UBS trading loss “demonstrates the need
for vigilant risk management of complex new products.”  “Fortunately for the system, the loss was manageable,
given the increased capital buffer at the bank, and a broader
liquidity squeeze was avoided,” he said.  Canadian banks should comply with the Basel III rules
early in the transition period, which starts in January 2013,
Carney said. Rules for the so-called shadow banking industry
need to be dynamic, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  