-- 
Consumer Spending in U.S. Probably Slowed on Limited Job, Income Growth

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-09-25T04:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/consumer-spending-in-u-s-probably-slowed-on-limited-job-income-growth.html
U.S. consumer spending probably
slowed in August, reflecting growing pessimism among households
that may further restrain the biggest part of the economy,
economists said reports this week will show.  Purchases rose 0.2 percent after July’s 0.8 percent gain,
according to the median estimate of 63 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey before the Commerce Department’s report Sept. 30.
 Consumer confidence  held close to a more than two-year low, home
sales dropped for a fourth month and factory orders for big-
ticket items declined, other reports this week may show.  Scarce employment prospects, tepid wage gains and a stock
market rout have pummeled consumer sentiment, which threatens to
slow sales for companies like  Ford Motor Co. (F)  The slowing economy
prompted Federal Reserve policy makers last week to introduce
another round of unconventional stimulus to ensure the recovery
is sustained.  “There’s a lot of worry about what’s going to happen
next,” said  Julia Coronado , chief economist  North America  at
BNP Paribas in  New York . “I can’t imagine that everything we’re
seeing right now has no ramifications for economic activity. Why
would consumers just say: ‘The global economy is falling apart,
but I’m going to go out and buy a new car?’”  The Commerce Department’s report on personal spending at
the end of the week will also show incomes rose 0.1 percent, the
smallest gain in nine months, according to the median estimate
in the Bloomberg survey. The gain would follow a 0.3 percent
increase in July.  Ford Sales  While Ford said Sept. 23 that U.S. sales of  pickup trucks 
are their highest since December, the Dearborn, Michigan-based
manufacturer said it’s started considering the possibility of
another recession.  “But it’s not our plan,”  George Pipas , a Ford sales
analyst, told reporters two days ago. “You can’t ignore the
economic data coming in. So you have to attach some level of
probability to it.”  While Pipas declined to say what probability Ford gives a
recession, “our plan is economic growth will be slow over the
next several quarters.”  Stocks slumped last week on concerns about the global
economy. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  suffered its worst
weekly loss since 2008, falling 6.4 percent, while the yield on
the benchmark 10-year Treasury note touched a record-low 1.67
percent.  Gauges of sentiment show a sharp deterioration. The
Conference Board’s consumer confidence index rose to 46 this
month from an August reading of 44.5, the weakest since April
2009, according to the median estimate in the Bloomberg survey
before a Sept. 27 report.  Employment, Wages  Employment was unchanged last month, the worst reading
since September 2010, and the  unemployment rate  held at 9.1
percent, the Labor Department said Sept. 2. The report also
showed average hourly earnings fell for the first time in more
than three years.  “We’ve got to turn around sentiment in order to see some
growth beyond what we are expecting right now,”  FedEx Corp. (FDX) 
Chief Financial Officer Alan Graf said Sept. 22. Graf said his
company projects the economy will expand 1.8 percent this year.  FedEx, an economic bellwether and operator of the world’s
biggest cargo airline, said last week that pessimism surrounding
the economy’s trajectory is keeping growth subdued. The Memphis,
Tennessee-based company’s shares fell by the most since December
2008 after it cut full-year profit forecast amid declining
demand in the U.S. and Asia  “We expect sluggish economic growth will continue, largely
due to a lack of confidence that U.S. and European policy makers
will effectively address current economic challenges,” FedEx
Chief Executive Officer Fred Smith said on the conference call
after the forecast was released.  Fed’s Boost  Fed officials announced a plan last week to replace some
notes in their portfolio with longer-term Treasuries to further
reduce borrowing costs.  The central bank also said they would reinvest maturing
housing debt into mortgage-backed securities “to help support
conditions in the mortgage market.” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said earlier this month that housing weakness is a key
reason for the “frustratingly slow pace of the recovery.”  New-home sales  in August declined 1.3 percent to a 294,000
annual rate, the slowest since February, according to the median
projection in the Bloomberg survey. The Commerce Department’s
report is tomorrow at 10 a.m.  Pending home sales, or contract signings for existing
homes, decreased 1.6 percent in August after falling 1.3 percent
the prior month, economists forecast the National Association of
Realtors will report on Sept. 29. The S&P/Case-Shiller index of
 home prices  in 20 cities, due Sept. 27, likely fell in July from
a year earlier at the same rate as the previous month.  The  U.S. economy  isn’t getting a boost from housing, which
has aided every recovery since 1982 except the current one. In
the first half of the year, the economy expanded at the slowest
pace since the recession ended in 2009, economists project
revised Commerce Department figures will show Sept. 29.  As  consumer spending  cools and businesses ship fewer goods
to struggling economies overseas, U.S. factories are seeing
fewer orders. Bookings for durable goods designed to last
several years declined 0.5 percent in August, according to the
Bloomberg survey median before the Commerce Department’s Sept.
28 report.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  