-- 
Ackermann Calls on Euro-Area Governments to Pass $593 Billion Rescue Fund

-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 
2011-09-25T15:44:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/deutsche-bank-ceo-says-euro-fund-approval-crucially-important-.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  Chief Executive
Officer  Josef Ackermann  said it was “crucially important” for
euro-area governments to implement a July 21 agreement to beef
up the rescue fund for their common currency.  Ackermann, speaking as chairman of the  Institute of
International Finance  at the group’s annual meeting in
 Washington  today, called upon euro-area governments to quickly
approve the 440 billion-euro ($593 billion) European Financial
Stability Facility and measures to enhance greater economic
policies discipline, according to an e-mailed statement from the
IIF, a global association of financial institutions.  “The euro is an essential and stable pillar of the
international monetary system and has brought stability and
growth to its members,” Ackermann said. “Its central role in
the global monetary system makes it all the more important that
any doubt about the workability of its institutional foundations
be removed.”  European policy makers face mounting pressure from foreign
counterparts and investors to prevent their sovereign debt
crisis from further roiling world markets. U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  set the tone for yesterday’s
annual meeting of the  International Monetary Fund  in Washington
by warning that failure to combat the Greek-led turmoil
threatened “cascading default, bank runs and catastrophic
risk.” Billionaire investor  George Soros  said “something needs
to be done” to safeguard  Europe ’s banks because Greece may be
unable to avoid default.  German Vote  German lawmakers are scheduled to vote on approval of their
country’s share in the fund later this week. European members of
the Group of 20 agreed Sept. 22 to “maximize” the fund’s
impact, while there are also discussions under way for speeding
the start of a permanent rescue program.  The G-20 summit in November in Cannes must make “strong
and concrete” decisions to restore confidence in the prospects
for economic recovery and financial stability and must ensure
that measures taken are consistent across the G-20, said
Ackermann.  The IIF is confident that the commitments made by the
financial industry as part of the  Greece  rescue efforts will
yield strong participation in the debt exchange offer, Ackermann
said. He said it wasn’t “feasible” to reopen the agreement and
the parties involved should focus on its “timely and resolute”
implementation.  Interest Savings  Private participation will save Greece 54 billion euros in
interest alone, the IIF said. Combined with official support and
if Greece attains its fiscal and growth targets, the aid would
reduce Greece’s net debt as a ratio to gross domestic product
from 155 percent in 2011 to 98 percent by 2020, the IIF said.  The IIF said yesterday that Ackermann will step down as its
chairman in June 2012 and be replaced by HSBC Holdings Plc
Chairman  Douglas Flint .  Ackermann also addressed financial regulation, saying
uneven application of capital rules from the  Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision  in different countries might lead to
“massive distortions.” Some measures go beyond the Basel III
requirements, accelerate the proposed timetable, and create an
unlevel international playing field, he said.  Lenders across the globe are retrenching “to an
unprecedented extent” and shun risks, partly because of an
overburden of regulation and uncertainly about future rules,
including liquidity requirements, Ackermann said.  Deleveraging  The “deleveraging” contributed to lower credit volume
extended to businesses and households in the EU and the U.S.,
undermining the economic recovery, said Ackermann. An IIF study
shows that the combined impact of all regulatory reforms could
see GDP in the mature economies over 3 percent lower by 2015,
which implies foregoing the creation of around 7.5 million jobs,
he said.  Contributing to that effect are proposed Basel capital
surcharges on banks that are judged to be too big to fail, which
policymakers need to review, said Ackermann.  “The proposals might not only add to moral hazard and
increase risk, but right now the critical concern is that they
can be particularly damaging given the fragility of financial
markets and the serious concerns about the economic outlook,”
Ackermann said.  He also criticized a financial transaction tax that is
being considered in some regions, including the European Union,
calling the idea a “costly mistake” that would burden
consumers and weaken lenders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 