-- 
Dexia Denies Talk of Split, Change in Shareholder Structure

-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 
2011-09-25T16:06:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/dexia-denies-talk-of-split-change-in-shareholder-structure.html
Dexia SA (DEXB) , the lender to local
governments that received a 6 billion-euro ($8 billion) bailout
in 2008, denied reports in the French press yesterday and today
that a split of the bank is under consideration.  “There is no hypothesis for a split of the group on the
table” and no decision is likely to come out of a board of
directors meeting scheduled for this week, said Benoit
Gausseron, head of communications for Dexia. “These rumors have
been numerous over the past two years.”  Le Figaro said yesterday that Dexia shareholders La Banque
Postale and state-owned Caisse des Depots et Consignations are
working to form a new lender to French municipalities, with
Dexia as an investor. Journal du Dimanche said today that French
and Belgian officials have been in talks to split the bank. Bank
of France Governor  Christian Noyer  said in an interview with the
Sunday newspaper that Dexia must continue to restructure itself
because its model is problematic.  Dexia Chief Executive Officer Pierre Mariani denied reports
of the split or change to the ownership structure to Belgian
newspaper De Tijd.  Gausseron declined to comment on the specific reports,
saying the board meeting this week is an “ordinary” one to
review Dexia’s current situation.  La Banque Postale provided 3.2 billion euros of financing
to Dexia SA through covered bonds at the end of June. The
lender, the banking unit of the state-owned postal service, said
this month it may increase the amount of long-term funding it
provides Dexia as part of the financing agreement.  A spokeswoman, who could not be named in line with bank
policy, declined to comment on the reports of Banque Postale’s
plans. CDC did not respond to e-mails seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 