-- 
Egypt EGX 30 Hits 2-Year Low on Former Regime Trial; TA-25 Rises

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   A h m e d   A   N a m a t a l l a
-- 
2011-09-25T14:04:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/dubai-shares-fall-to-one-month-low-on-global-growth-concern-oil.html
Egypt’s benchmark stock index
tumbled to its lowest level in more than two years as testimony
by the nation’s military leader at former President  Hosni Mubarak ’s trial raised concern his case is gaining support.  The EGX 30 dropped 2.4 percent to 4,233.22, the lowest
since April 2009, and is down 21 percent this quarter. The
 Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  of Persian Gulf stocks lost 0.9 percent,
while Israel’s TA-25 Index gained.  Maridive & Oil Services SAE (MOIL) ,
an Egyptian marine and oil support services company, tumbled 6.9
percent after oil fell below $80 a barrel.  Commercial
International Bank Egypt SAE (COMI) , Egypt’s biggest publicly traded
lender, lost 3.4 percent to its lowest price since July 2009.  Mohamed Hussein Tantawi, Egypt’s defense minister and head
of the ruling military council, testified yesterday at Mubarak’s
trial. The former president is charged with corruption and
involvement in the killing of protesters amid the popular revolt
that led to his ouster. Investors are concerned about further
unrest in the Arab country if Mubarak is acquitted. Egyptian
stocks also fell on speculation  Greece ’s debt troubles may cause
global financial turmoil, making it more difficult for the
Egyptian economy to recover.  “The global picture is not helping, but the testimonies
are the main overhang on the market today,” said Wafik Dawood,
director of institutional sales at Cairo based Mega Investments
Securities. “Investors are worried testimonies in favor of the
former regime could cause more public rage.”  Global Growth  Lawyers representing families of protesters who were killed
during the demonstrations have demanded a new court, the
Associated Press said. The court has barred the media from
reporting on the testimonies of five officials in the trial
including Tantawi’s.  Global stocks slumped last week, with the MSCI Emerging
Markets Index plunging 12 percent, its biggest weekly drop since
2008. The Stoxx 600 tumbled 6.1 percent and oil for November
delivery lost 9.2 percent to $79.85 a barrel in  New York . Gulf
Arab oil exporters, including the United Arab Emirates and
Qatar, supply about a fifth of the world’s oil.  U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner yesterday
warned that failure to combat the Greek-led turmoil threatened
“cascading default, bank runs and catastrophic risk.”
Billionaire investor  George Soros  said “something needs to be
done” to safeguard Europe’s banks because Greece may be unable
to avoid default  Maridive lost to $2.04, the lowest since February 2009.
“There’s a very strong correlation between the price of oil and
the decline in the company’s stock,” said Hamed Hesham, equity
analyst at Cairo-based investment bank Beltone Financial
Holding.  Statehood  Commercial International,  Egypt ’s biggest publicly traded
lender, tumbled to 23.32 Egyptian pounds.  Israeli stocks rose after the benchmark index sank the most
in three weeks as concern of increased violence over the
Palestinian bid for statehood receded following statements at
the United Nations. The TA-25 Index advanced 2.1 percent in Tel
Aviv, trimming the decline this quarter to 13 percent.  Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas presented his
case at the UN for recognition of Palestine as a member state,
while Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  called for
further talks. Israeli and Palestinian security forces bolstered
their presence in the  West Bank  prior to the meeting on concern
the statehood bid would spark violence.  The yield on Israel’s 5 percent Mimshal Shiklit government
bonds due January 2020 fell three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 4.54 percent.  Dubai Index Falls  In the Persian Gulf, the  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  slipped 0.9
percent to the lowest since Aug. 9 and Abu Dhabi’s  ADX General
Index (ADSMI)  lost 0.8 percent.  “Fear of global financial turmoil if Greece defaults is
keeping U.A.E. investors on the sidelines,” said Nabil Farhat,
a partner at Abu Dhabi-based Al Fajer Securities. About 70
million shares traded in the emirate, compared with this year’s
daily average of 114 million shares, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  decreased 1 percent
as it traded for the first time since Sept. 21 after a holiday.
Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  declined 0.5 percent, Oman’s MSM 30 Index
slipped 0.7 percent and Kuwait’s gauge fell 1.1 percent.
Bahrain’s BB All Share Index tumbled 1.9 percent to the lowest
since at least July 2004, when Bloomberg started tracking the
index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  