-- 
ECB May Take Further Steps If Outlook Worsens, Estonia Central Banker Says

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-09-25T20:12:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/ecb-may-take-more-steps-if-region-s-outlook-worsens-estonia-s-kaasik-says.html
The  European Central Bank  may take
further steps to support the region’s economy, including cutting
 interest rates , if the economic outlook worsens, Estonia’s
Deputy Central Bank Governor Ulo Kaasik said.  While the current ECB economic forecasts don’t warrant
moving “very quickly” on interest rates, “if the situation
changes we are ready to change our opinion as well,” Kaasik
said in an interview in Washington today. Kaasik, whose country
joined the euro region this year, said the ECB doesn’t pre-
commit on interest rate decisions.  Kaasik’s remarks follow indications by ECB Governing
Council members Ewald Nowotny and Luc Coene in the past few days
that the central bank could step up efforts to boost growth and
ease financial-market tensions as early as next month. The
latest ECB growth forecasts that came out Sept. 8 were made in
August when not all information was available to gauge the
strength of European growth, Kaasik said. Nowotny today
suggested he expects further downward revisions.  European policy makers are under pressure from counterparts
around the globe as their failure to contain the region’s
sovereign-debt crisis stokes concern the world is on the brink
of another recession. The ECB started buying Italian and Spanish
government bonds last month after investors demanded euro-era
record yields while policy makers grew increasingly divided over
the best way to fight the crisis.  Reverse Course  Economists at  Barclays Capital  and Royal Bank of Scotland
Plc predict the ECB will also be forced to reverse course on
interest rates after it raised them twice this year to curb
inflation. The benchmark rate is currently 1.5 percent, compared
with near-zero for the U.S. Federal Reserve and Bank of  Japan ,
and the  Bank of England ’s 0.5 percent.  The ECB on Sept. 8 cut its growth forecast for 2011 to 1.6
percent from a previous estimate of 1.9 percent. It sees the
economy growing 1.3 percent next year versus a previous forecast
of 1.7 percent.  The ECB lends banks in the euro region as much cash as they
need against eligible collateral for up to six months. Asked
whether it could reintroduce longer-term bank loans with
maturities of 12 months, as mentioned by Coene, Kaasik said
“all options are on the table if there is a necessity.”  “What is lacking is confidence, all the steps to increase
confidence are welcome,” he said.  Asked about the ECB’s bond purchases, Kaasik said European
countries have to implement as soon as possible changes to their
bailout fund, agreed by European leaders in July, which are
expected to be ratified in  Estonia  later this week.  Expand the Scope  European parliaments are focused on approving the July
agreement to expand the scope of the 440 billion-euro ($594
billion) European Financial Stability Facility to allow it to
buy the debt of stressed euro-area governments, aid troubled
banks and offer credit lines. Its current role is to sell bonds
to fund rescue loans for cash-strapped governments.  “What you do need is enough firepower for the EFSF in
order to convince the market that they can do the job,” he
said. Whether it’s through increasing its capital or leveraging
it is up to governments, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in  Washington  at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in Washington at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  