-- 
Egypt 9-Month Yield Drops as Country Pitches Local Debt to Persian Gulf

-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 
2011-09-25T15:52:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/egypt-9-month-yield-drops-as-country-pitches-debt-to-arabs-2-.html
The yield on Egypt’s nine-month
treasury bills dropped for the first time in almost six weeks
after the country started talks with  Persian Gulf  governments on
the sale of local debt. The yield on three-month notes rose.  The Arab country raised its targeted 6.5 billion Egyptian
pounds ($1.1 billion) from the sale of three-month and nine-
month securities at an auction today. The average yield on nine-
month notes fell one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to
13.83 percent from a sale of similar-maturity bills last week.
That’s the first decline since a sale on Aug. 15 and comes after
the yield surged 86 basis points earlier this month. The rate on
three-month notes advanced nine basis points to 13.024 percent.  “The Gulf has traditionally invested in equities, but
Egyptian debt may be more appealing now with the decline in the
stock market,” said Moustafa Assal, head of fixed-income at
Cairo-based Beltone Financial Holding. “The financing needs of
the government here are huge, so any decline in yields will be
temporary unless other foreign investors return.  Egypt ’s government is paying the highest yields in almost
three years on local currency debt, which it sells weekly to
finance the  budget deficit . The average yield on one-year
treasury bills climbed six basis points to 13.882 percent, the
highest since November 2008, at an auction last week.  ‘Profit Taking’  Barclays Capital  recommended ‘‘profit taking’’ on three-
month treasury bills because of ‘‘uncertainties about the
election process and the still challenging economic situation.’’
The balance of risks in the Arab country is ‘‘unfavorable for
keeping the trade open,’’ analysts Alia Moubayed, Koon Chow and
Andreas Kolbe wrote in a research report. Egypt is scheduled to
hold parliamentary elections in November.  Finance Minister Hazem El Beblawi said Sept. 22 the
government was in talks with  Saudi Arabia  and the  United Arab
Emirates  to have them or their investment arms buy T-bills. The
plan may lower borrowing costs, National Bank of Egypt Chairman
Tarek Amer said.  ‘‘It will help,’’ Amer, whose state-owned bank is the
country’s biggest by assets, said in an interview yesterday in
 Washington . Current yields reflect conditions in the market, he
said. ‘‘The minister of finance is suffering because of the
interest rate bill he’s paying,” said Amer, a former deputy
central bank governor.  Egypt’s 5.75 percent 10-year dollar bond due April 2020
slumped on Sept. 23, sending the yield 43 basis points higher to
5.92 percent, the highest level since May 31. The pound was
little changed at 5.973 per dollar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  