-- 
Merkel Says Greece Needs ‘Barrier’ Erected to Stave Off Sovereign Default

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 
2011-09-25T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/merkel-can-t-rule-out-euro-area-sovereign-default-after-esm-fund-in-place.html
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
said euro-region leaders must erect a firewall around Greece to
avert a cascade of market attacks on other European states that
would risk breaking up the currency area.  Expanding the powers of the region’s rescue fund, the
European Financial Stability Facility, as agreed by European
leaders in July is necessary to avoid Greece’s problems from
spilling over to other countries, Merkel said late yesterday on
ARD television. The fund’s permanent successor, due to take
effect in mid-2013, is needed “so we can in fact let a state go
insolvent” if it can’t pay its bills, she said.  “We have to be in a position to react,” Merkel said. “We
have to be able to put up a barrier.” Even so, “I don’t rule
out at all that at some point we will have the question whether
one can do an insolvency of states just like with banks.” She
made no mention of setting up the permanent fund before 2013.  Merkel, as the head of  Europe ’s biggest economy, is at the
center of calls by the U.S. and other governments to do more to
stop the European sovereign debt crisis as it pounds global
financial markets. The situation is “serious” and “there are
no easy solutions,” Merkel said in the hour-long interview. She
also indicated that she’s being treated for high  blood pressure .  ‘A Bit Earlier’  Policy makers can make the EFSF more “efficient” by
leveraging it without involving the  European Central Bank ,
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said over the weekend. He
also raised the prospect of bringing in the permanent backstop
before 2013. Senior finance officials are preparing to examine
the cost advantages of accelerating the start of the fund by a
year to 2012, according to a document prepared for meetings this
week obtained by Bloomberg News.  “Maybe we can manage it a bit earlier” than 2013,
Schaeuble told reporters in  Washington  on Sept. 24 after the
annual meeting of the  International Monetary Fund . The current
facility is a “preliminary solution and we want a permanent
solution as quickly as possible.” Its successor, known as the
European Stability Mechanism, will have a “quite different
lasting, stabilizing, confidence-creating function” and  Germany 
“would not oppose” bringing it forward, he said.  With global stocks entering their first  bear market  in two
years last week, European policy makers were met with pressure
at the weekend from foreign counterparts at the IMF meeting to
do more to stop the contagion seeping from Greece.  ‘Can’t Force It’  Merkel rejected Greece leaving the euro area, saying that
“we can’t force it, but I don’t believe in that in any case”
because it would send a signal to financial markets that attacks
on euro-area sovereigns can succeed.  “Maybe  Greece  leaves, the next country leaves and then the
next country after that,” she said. “They would speculate
against all the countries.” A small group of euro countries
would be left at the end, deprived of the euro’s advantage as
the currency appreciates, she said.  Merkel suggested that Greece may be able to get the next
tranche of bailout aid, after a team of officials from the IMF,
the ECB and the European Commission assess the Greek
government’s progress in meeting deficit-reduction and other
targets. Merkel is due to host Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  for talks in Berlin on Sept. 27, two days before
German lawmakers vote on the enhanced rescue fund.  It’s the “troika’s” job to make the ruling on progress
made by Greece, she said. “Were they to come back one day and
say Greece can’t make it, then we would have to rethink,”
Merkel said. “But they aren’t doing that so far.”  EFSF Vote  Merkel said she’ll win legislative approval of the expanded
EFSF powers on Sept. 29 on the strength of her governing
majority without depending on opposition support. “I want a
majority of my own and I’m confident I will get it,” she said.
“I’m also going to lobby for it one more time this week.”  For all the turmoil, Germans can have confidence in the
euro. “We need the euro,” she said. “The euro is good for us.
That is why we need to improve on what has gone wrong in the
past.” Changing European treaties to make it easier to enforce
budget discipline is one solution, she said. “We have to work
toward treaty change.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  