-- 
Euro Falls to Decade Low Versus Yen on European Debt Concern; Kiwi Drops

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 
2011-09-26T11:17:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/euro-gains-versus-dollar-as-officials-mull-earlier-esm-rescue-fund-start.html
The euro fell to a decade low
against the yen on speculation European policy makers are
struggling to resolve the debt crisis as economic growth slows,
damping demand for the region’s assets.  The 17-nation currency slid versus most of its major peers
on uncertainty over whether  Greece  will get another round of
funding to avoid default. The dollar and yen rose as U.S.
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said failure to address
the debt crisis may lead to bank runs. The euro rose from an
eight-month low versus the dollar after a German report showed
business confidence fell less than economists forecast. New
Zealand’s dollar reached a six-month low against the greenback
after a report showed the trade deficit widened.  “The lack of a coordinated policy response to the debt
crisis is pushing the euro down,” said  Derek Halpenny , London-
based European head of currency research at Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. “The risk of contagion remains very high
and the failure to deal with Greece means that the euro can only
go lower.”  The euro dropped 0.2 percent to 103.20 yen at 7:14 a.m. in
 New York  after declining to 101.94, the weakest level since June
2001. The shared currency was little changed at $1.3527 after
sliding to $1.3363, the lowest since Jan. 18. The yen gained 0.4
percent to 76.29 per dollar.  Finance ministers and central bankers who held weekend
talks in  Washington , where the  International Monetary Fund  and
 World Bank  had their annual meetings, urged European officials
to intensify efforts to contain their 18-month debt crisis as
Greece teetered on the edge of default.  ‘Cascading Default’  Geithner called on governments to unite with the  European
Central Bank  to boost the capacity of their bailout fund, saying
failure to act threatened “cascading default, bank runs and
catastrophic risk.” Former Treasury Secretary  Lawrence Summers 
said he has been to 20 years of IMF gatherings, and “there’s
not been a prior meeting at which matters have had more gravity
and at which I’ve been more concerned about the future of the
global economy.”  “There needs to be a global coordinated plan put in place
to address the debt crisis and the capitalization of banks to
re-instill faith in the world’s financial system,” Bank of
Tokyo’s Halpenny said. “Without that,  Europe  will keep coming
up short.” The euro may weaken to as low as $1.25 by year-end,
he said.  Greece on Sept. 21 became the latest country to authorize
expanded powers for the European Financial Stability Facility
agreed to in July. The countries yet to ratify are  Austria ,
Cyprus, Estonia, Finland, Germany, Ireland, Malta,  Netherlands ,
 Portugal , Slovakia and Slovenia. German lawmakers will vote on
changes to the facility on Sept. 29. The enhanced powers can
only take effect when all 17 euro nations have ratified them.  ‘Coming Up Short’  Euro-region finance ministers won’t be in a position to
decide on the disbursement of the next tranche of aid to Greece
when they meet on Oct. 3 because a report by the IMF, ECB and
European Commission has been delayed, German Deputy Finance
Minister  Joerg Asmussen  said yesterday.  “The euro has hit new lows and unless there’s a
significant policy response to deal with the crisis we think it
will continue to trade weak,” said  Paul Robson , a senior
foreign-exchange strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
in  London . “There’s still a lot of uncertainty in the market.”  The Ifo institute said its business climate index for
 Germany  dropped to 107.5 from 108.7 in August. Economists
forecast a decline to 106.5, according to a Bloomberg survey.  Yen, Dollar  The yen and dollar have gained almost 3 percent over the
past week, the best performers among 10 developed-nation
currencies, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
In the past three months the yen has gained 11 percent, the
dollar has risen 4.6 percent and the euro lost 1.1 percent.  For all the concern about sovereign default in Europe, the
euro remains above its average since being created almost 12
years ago, a sign that foreign-exchange traders see little
chance of a collapse as officials step up efforts to keep the
debt crisis from expanding.  At last week’s close of $1.35, the euro is 12 percent
stronger than its average of $1.2024 since January 1999. While
strategists have cut their forecasts for appreciation, they
still see it rising to $1.43 by the end of 2012, based on the
median of 35 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  New Zealand ’s dollar fell against the dollar after a report
showed the trade deficit was wider than estimated, adding to
signs of a slowdown in the South Pacific nation. The currency
later reversed losses to be little changed.  Imports exceeded exports by NZ$641 million ($494 million)
in August, Statistics New Zealand said. Economists forecast a
NZ$321 million deficit.  “Risk will still be on the back foot -- markets will be
very, very cautious,” said Khoon Goh, head of market economics
and strategy at ANZ National Bank Ltd. in Wellington. “The kiwi
is sitting right on a quite crucial support level. If it doesn’t
hold, we’re looking at potentially a move lower.”  The New Zealand dollar traded at 77.75 U.S. cents after
falling to 76.38 U.S. cents, weakest level since April 1.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  