-- 
Euro Trading Above Average Since 1999 Debut Undermines Calls for Collapse

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-09-26T16:50:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/euro-trading-above-average-since-1999-debut-undermines-calls-for-collapse.html
For all the concern about sovereign
default in  Europe , the euro remains above its average since
being created almost 12 years ago, a sign that foreign-exchange
traders see little chance of a collapse as officials step up
efforts to keep the debt crisis from expanding.  “Too much political and ideological capital has been
invested into making the euro project work and bringing the
continent of Europe closer together since the end of World War
II to allow it to unravel now,” Thanos Papasavvas, the head of
currency management in London at Investec Asset Management Ltd.,
which invests about $95 billion, said in a Sept. 20 interview.  Investors from billionaire George Soros, whose $10 billion
bet in 1992 preceded the Bank of England’s devaluation of the
pound, to  John Taylor , who runs the world’s biggest currency
hedge fund, have predicted the euro’s breakup or forecast it
will slump to parity with the dollar.  At the same time, the currency’s relative strength reflects
the commitment of German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French
President Nicolas Sarkozy to solve the region’s debt crisis and
keep Greece, Ireland and Portugal in the 17-nation bloc. While
bonds show growing expectations of a Greek default, currency
strategists still predict the euro will appreciate this year.  Rescue-Fund Talks  European governments are exploring accelerating the start
of a permanent rescue fund for their economies, with senior
finance officials set to examine this week the cost advantages
of setting up the European Stability Mechanism, or ESM, a year
earlier than its July 2013 start, according to a document
prepared for the meetings and obtained by Bloomberg News.  “The euro is still the best way for the peripheral
countries in Europe to become more competitive and address their
structural issues,” Papasavvas said.  The euro strengthened 1.42 percent last week against a
basket of nine developed-nation peers, the most since gaining
1.55 percent in the period ended June 3, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. It has risen 1.5 percent
from this month’s low on Sept. 12, the indexes show.  At last week’s close of $1.35, the currency is 12 percent
stronger than its average of $1.2024 since January 1999. While
strategists have cut their forecasts for appreciation, they
still see it rising to $1.43 by the end of 2012, based on the
median of 35 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  The shared currency depreciated today, falling to as low as
101.94 yen, the weakest since June 2001, and losing 0.2 percent
to $1.3468 at 12:47 p.m. in New York.  ‘Cathartic’ Default  Schneider Foreign Exchange, the most-accurate currency
forecaster during the six quarters through June 30 according to
data compiled by Bloomberg, predicts the euro will trade at
$1.56 next year. A default by  Greece  will prove “cathartic”
for the region, shifting attention back to the U.S.’s $1
trillion  budget deficit  and rising debt, according to  Stephen Gallo , the firm’s head of market analysis in London.  Nomura Holdings Inc. cut its year-end prediction this month
to $1.30 from $1.40 amid increasing stress in Europe’s fixed-
income markets and as investors wait for EU officials to present
details on how they plan to keep the union together.  “The big euro-zone bond markets are under pressure and we
don’t really have any policy response lined up whatsoever, in
fact we’re in a policy vacuum,”  Jens Nordvig , global head of
Group of 10 foreign exchange strategy in  New York  at Nomura,
said in a Sept. 22 telephone interview.  Default Swaps  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of credit-default swaps
on the senior debt of European 25 banks and insurers jumped as
much as 23 basis points on Sept. 23 to an all-time high of 325
basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. The Markit
iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of swaps on 15 governments rose
5.5 to 365.5, CMA prices show.  Greek two-year note yields posted their biggest weekly
increase in the period ended Sept. 23 since it joined the euro
region, surging 14.76 percentage points to 69.8 percent, as
credit-default swaps signaled a 94 percent probability the
government will renege on its obligations within five years.
 Portugal  10-year yields jumped 63 basis points to 11.8 percent.  Greece and Portugal may be able to regain their economic
competitiveness by leaving the euro, Soros said in a Sept. 16
New York Times editorial. Taylor, whose FX Concepts LLC oversees
$8.5 billion, has said the euro would fall to parity with its
U.S. counterpart as the EU crisis escalates.  Austerity measures in Europe designed to lower debts and
deficits means the EU’s economy may grow more slowly.  IMF Cuts Outlook  The  International Monetary Fund  cut its estimates last week
for the region’s expansion this year to 1.6 percent from 2
percent, and in 2012 to 1.1 percent from 1.7 percent. That
compares with growth of 4 percent in 2011 and 2012 in the world
economy, the organization forecast.  “Damage is done,” JPMorgan Chase & Co. Chief Economist
Bruce Kasman said Sept. 24 during a panel discussion at the
Institute of International Finance annual meeting in Washington.
“Europe in our mind is entering recession. Greece is insolvent
and the European Union needs to deal with that. It hasn’t yet
come to terms with that.”  The ESM will have a 500 billion-euro ($670 billion) war
chest that would help shield countries such as Italy and Spain
from the region’s growing debt crisis. It also includes
provisions for sharing costs with bondholders for countries with
“unsustainable” debt.  Credit-default swaps on sovereign debt of Italy, Spain,
Belgium, France and  Germany  also rose to records on Sept. 23.
Contracts on Italy rose 13 to 547, Spain jumped 17 to 450,
Belgium climbed 10 basis points to 304, France increased 3.5 to
206, Germany advanced four to 110, CMA prices show.  ‘Effective Financing Structure’  Faster ESM enactment would provide a “more effective
financing structure” that cuts the extra debt of donor
countries by 38.5 billion euros, according to the document
obtained by Bloomberg News. “This gain is to be considered as a
minimum,” it said.  Asked by Bloomberg Television about bringing forward the
ESM’s start date, EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner
 Olli Rehn  said the focus for now is on upgrading the temporary
fund, the 440 billion-euro European Financial Stability
Facility.  Speculating on a weaker euro means betting against the
ability of Merkel and Sarkozy to keep the EU together. The two
said this month in a joint statement that “it is more than ever
indispensable” to “assure the stability of the euro zone.”  IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said investors
haven’t taken into account “very solid fiscal consolidation”
in some euro region nations.  ‘Under the Skin’  “I would hope that analysts would actually look under the
skin of budgets of economies, of policies, to appreciate their
solidity,” Lagarde said in a Sept. 22 Bloomberg Television
interview with  Tom Keene .  Germany, Europe’s largest economy, benefits from keeping
the EU together because 43 percent of its goods, or about 416
billion euros, are sold within the region. Exports were 4.9
percent higher last quarter than three years ago.  “It would complicate trade a lot if the euro zone breaks
up, never mind the socio-economic impact,”  Ulrich Leuchtmann ,
Commerzbank AG’s head of currency strategy, said in a Sept. 22
telephone interview from  Frankfurt . “The euro is the main tool
for stronger European integration.”  The euro is the second-most traded currency after the
dollar, according to the Bank for International Settlements in
 Basel ,  Switzerland . It accounted for 26.6 percent of global
currency reserves as of March 31, up from 18 percent at its
inception, and second only to the greenback’s 60.7 percent.  Euro Support  Concern the U.S.’s debt and deficits may become
unmanageable as economic growth slows is helping support the
euro. The  Federal Reserve  said last week it would sell $400
billion of short-term debt and reinvest the proceeds in longer-
maturity Treasuries to contain borrowing costs because of what
it sees as “significant downside risks to the economic
outlook.”  “There’s still enough concern about the Fed and the  U.S.
economy  that it limits the degree to which the euro falls,”
Steven Englander, head of Group of 10 currency strategy at
Citigroup Inc. in New York, said in a Sept. 21 telephone
interview.  Over the life of the euro, the Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Index that measures its performance has ranged from as
low as 89.3740 in October 2000 to as high as 120.3054 in
December 2008, before ending last week at 99.4761.  Euro Challenges  Against the dollar, it has ranged from 82.3 cents in
October 2000 to $1.6038 in July 2008. The euro will hold above
$1.30 this year as central banks led by the Swiss National Bank
and sovereign-wealth funds such as those in Asia seek
alternatives to the dollar, Michael Derks, the chief strategist
at foreign-exchange broker FxPro Group Ltd. in  London , said last
week.  “I don’t think the euro is going to break up, it’s facing
lots of challenges but it’s not going to fall apart,” Audrey Childe-Freeman, global head of currency strategy in London at
the private-banking unit of JPMorgan, said Sept. 22 by
telephone. “Economically, no member country would gain from a
breakup of the euro-zone and that’s why politically, it’s
unlikely to happen.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  