-- 
Euro Rises on Optimism EU May Speed Fund to Stem Debt Crisis

-- B y   R o b e r t   B u r g e s s
-- 
2011-09-25T18:59:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/euro-rallies-on-optimism-eu-may-speed-emergency-fund-to-curb-debt-crisis.html
The euro rose on optimism European
officials may speed efforts to stem the region’s debt crisis
after mounting pressure from foreign counterparts and investors
at the International Monetary Fund’s annual meeting.  European governments are exploring accelerating the start
of a permanent rescue fund for their economies, with senior
finance officials set to examine this week the cost advantages
of setting up the European Stability Mechanism, or ESM, a year
earlier than its July 2013 start, according to a document
prepared for the meetings and obtained by Bloomberg News.  The euro rose to $1.3545 from $1.35 on Sept. 26 in early
Asia-Pacific trading, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
It gained to 103.52 from 103.40.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  set the tone
for the Sept. 24 annual meeting of the IMF in  Washington  by
warning that failure to combat the Greek-led turmoil threatened
“cascading default, bank runs and catastrophic risk.”
Billionaire investor  George Soros  said “something needs to be
done” to safeguard  Europe ’s banks because  Greece  may be unable
to avoid default.  Faster ESM enactment would provide a “more effective
financing structure” that cuts the extra debt of donor
countries by 38.5 billion euros, according to the document
obtained by Bloomberg News. “This gain is to be considered as a
minimum,” it said.  Relative Strength  Asked by Bloomberg Television about bringing forward the
ESM’s start date, EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner
 Olli Rehn  said the focus for now is on upgrading the temporary
fund, the 440 billion-euro European Financial Stability Facility.  For all the concern about sovereign default in Europe, the
euro remains above its average since being created almost 12
years ago, a sign that foreign-exchange traders see little
chance of a collapse as officials step up efforts to keep the
debt crisis from expanding.  The euro strengthened 1.42 percent last week against a
basket of nine developed-nation peers, the most since gaining
1.55 percent in the period ended June 3, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. It has risen 2.8 percent
from this month’s low on Sept. 12, the indexes show.  Trading Patterns  At last week’s close of $1.35, the currency is 12 percent
stronger than its average of $1.2024 since January 1999. While
strategists have cut their forecasts for appreciation, they
still see it rising to $1.43 by the end of 2012, based on the
median of 35 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  The dollar and yen rallied last week after Federal Reserve
policy makers said they saw “significant downside risks” to
the  U.S. economy  and Greece struggled to avoid default, spurring
demand for refuge. The dollar rose 2.2 percent to $1.35 per euro.
 Japan ’s currency gained 0.2 percent to 76.61 yen per dollar, and
advanced 2.4 percent against the shared currency to 103.40.  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, touched 78.798 on Sept. 22, the highest level
since Feb. 14.  Aggregate bets the dollar will strengthen against the euro,
the yen, the Australian, Canadian and New Zealand dollars, the
pound, the Swiss franc and the Mexican peso surged to 75,065
contracts in the week ended Sept. 20, according to Commodity
Futures Trading Commission Data as compiled by Bloomberg.
Foreign-exchange traders are net long the dollar for the first
time since July 2010.  Price swings surged to a 16-month high with implied
volatility for currencies of the Group of Seven nations reaching
15.5 last week, the highest since May 2010, a JPMorgan Chase &
Co. index showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Burgess in  New York  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  