-- 
Fischer May Keep Israel Lending Rate at 3.25% This Month

-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 
2011-09-26T09:41:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/fischer-may-keep-israel-lending-rate-at-3-25-for-fourth-month.html
Bank of  Israel  Governor  Stanley Fischer  will probably keep the benchmark interest rate unchanged
for a fourth month as the need to fight above-target inflation
is balanced by slowing growth, the European debt crisis and
regional tensions.  Fischer will hold the lending rate at 3.25 percent today,
20 of 22 economists surveyed by Bloomberg said. Two predicted a
quarter-point cut. The central bank will announce the decision
at 5:30 p.m. in Jerusalem.  “While the geopolitical developments and European debt
crisis support a rate cut, housing-market figures actually
support a rate increase,” said Ron Eichel, chief economist and
strategist at Meitav Investment House Ltd. in  Tel Aviv . “Taking
that into account, and the fact that the real  interest rate  is
very low, it’s likely that the governor will hold the rate.”  The government’s benchmark shekel bond rose today, sending
yields to the lowest level in two weeks, on speculation policy
makers may cut borrowing costs as early as today as growth
falters. Fischer said last week that Israel’s monetary-
tightening cycle is probably over and there is room to reduce
the benchmark rate if needed as growth slows and risks to the
global economy increase.  “Chances are that the Bank of Israel will leave the
interest rate unchanged at least until the end of the year,”
Eichel said. “If the geopolitical situation worsens, or concern
that a double-dip recession will occur heightens, the  Bank of
Israel  will cut the benchmark, and quickly.”  Shekel Weakens  The yield on the Mimshal Shiklit note due January 2020 fell
one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 4.53 percent in
Tel Aviv. The yield on the consumer price index-linked bond due
June 2013 retreated two basis points to 1.18 percent. The shekel
weakened the most in a week, losing as much as 0.9 percent to
3.7371 per dollar and was 0.6 percent lower at 3.7239 at 11:30
a.m. in Tel Aviv.  Fischer has left the interest rate unchanged in his last
three decisions after increasing it 10 times in the past two
years.  The  International Monetary Fund  on Sept. 20 cut its
forecast for global growth and predicted “severe”
repercussions if  Europe  fails to contain its debt crisis or U.S.
policy makers deadlock over a fiscal plan.  Israeli Exports  Fischer said Sept. 18 that he is concerned about the
possible effects of a global slump on Israeli exports. The Bank
of Israel last week cut its growth forecast for next year to 3.2
percent from 3.9 percent, citing expectations for slower export
growth.  Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  asked the
 United Nations  on Sept. 23 to recognize a Palestinian state and
ruled out a return to “business as usual” in peace
negotiations. Fischer said Sept. 18 that if violence erupts as a
result of Israeli-Palestinian tensions, it will “cost” Israel
economically.  Turkey , one of Israel’s largest regional trading partners,
expelled Israel’s ambassador this month and halted defense
purchases after Israel refused to apologize for a commando raid
last year on a Turkish vessel attempting to breach the blockade
of the Hamas-controlled  Gaza Strip  that left nine dead.  Consumer prices rose 0.5 percent in August, more than
forecast, as home rental costs climbed, government-regulated
electricity fees increased and the weakening of the shekel
helped push up import and travel prices. The annual inflation
rate was 3.4 percent, the same as the previous month. The
government’s annual target range is 1 percent to 3 percent.  Housing Costs  Housing rental prices have increased 5.2 percent in the
past 12 months, and home purchase prices by about 12 percent.  The TA-25 benchmark share price index has slid about 20
percent since the beginning of the year led by Discount
Investment Corp., a holding company with interests in
telecommunications, retailing and manufacturing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in  Jerusalem  at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  