-- 
Ford Motor May Build Electric Cars in China With Partner, CEO Mulally Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-26T07:28:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/ford-motor-may-build-electric-cars-in-china-with-partner-ceo-mulally-says.html
Ford Motor Co. (F)  may make electric
cars with its partner in  China  as the  auto industry  moves toward
producing more fuel-efficient vehicles, Chief Executive Officer
 Alan Mulally  said.  “As we move to more electrification, you’re going to see
more hybrids, plug-in hybrids and all-electric” cars, Mulally,
66, said in a Bloomberg Television interview on Sept. 24 in
Chongqing, China.  Mulally, in China for the groundbreaking of an engine
transmission plant at Ford’s venture with Changan Automobile
Group, didn’t say when the Dearborn, Michigan-based company may
start making the electric cars. Rivals  Daimler AG (DAI)  and  General
Motors Co. (GM)  have announced plans to add such vehicles in China as
the country, the world’s largest polluter, seeks to reduce
emissions.  The government aims to have 1 million electric-powered
vehicles on the road by 2015, according to the Ministry of
Science. A rollout of electric vehicles depends largely on
infrastructure and advances in battery technology, Mulally said.  Additional Models  Ford will also consider introducing its Lincoln luxury
brand in China to tap the growing high-end sedan market, Mulally
said. The carmaker now sells models including its Mondeo sedan
and Focus small car in the country.  “We have a great luxury brand in Lincoln, which we have
recommitted ourselves to,” Mulally said. “There’s going to be
tremendous pull from China to have access to these great
vehicles.”  Ford is spending $1.6 billion to build four factories in
China, where it plans to triple its lineup by offering 15 models
by mid-decade. The carmaker, dependent on the U.S. and  Europe 
for most sales and profits, had 2.7 percent of the passenger-
vehicle market in China through June, according to J.D. Power &
Associates, while GM controlled 10 percent.  China’s demand for luxury cars will grow about 35 percent
this year, analysts at J.D. Power forecast. This compares with a
5 percent increase for overall auto sales as predicted by the
China Association of Automobile Manufacturers. Ford also expects
the market to grow at about 5 percent, near the low end of its 5
to 10 percent forecast, Joe Hinrichs, group vice president and
 Asia  chief, told reporters in Beijing today.  Delivery Slowdown  Expansion in Asia is part of Mulally’s wider plan to boost
annual global sales by 50 percent to 8 million vehicles by 2015.
Ford’s China sales have risen 11 percent this year to 341,746,
the company said on Sept. 6.  Overall vehicle sales in China reached 18.06 million last
year, boosted by government tax breaks and rural subsidies.  Ford is encountering pricing pressure in China as the auto
market there slows, Hinrichs said on Aug. 10. Overall deliveries
in China are forecast to slow this year from the 32 percent gain
in 2010, after the government removed sales-tax breaks in
January and the central bank raised  interest rates  five times
since October.  Globally, the automaker is adjusting capacity to reflect
demand as economies slow, Mulally said in Beijing today,
declining to give specifics. Overall U.S. auto sales in 2011,
including medium- and heavy-duty trucks, are likely to fall
slightly below Ford’s forecast of 13 million to 13.5 million
vehicles, and Europe’s industry deliveries will reach about 15.2
million, he said today.  “In the last five years, we would never chase incremental
sales when the demand wasn’t there,” Mulally said today.
“That’s why we sometimes take a hit on market share. The most
important to do in business is to match production to the real
demand and operate profitably.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  