-- 
German Business Confidence May Drop

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 
2011-09-25T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/german-business-confidence-may-drop-to-15-month-low-in-september.html
German business confidence probably
fell to a 15-month low in September as  Europe ’s debt crisis
increased the risk of another global recession.  The Ifo institute’s business climate index, based on a
survey of 7,000 executives, will drop for a third straight month
to 106.5 from 108.7 in August, according to the median forecast
of 41 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. Ifo releases the
report at 10 a.m. in Munich today.  Germany’s benchmark DAX share index has plunged almost 30
percent since late July as the global outlook worsens and
Europe’s debt crisis erodes confidence in its banks. Euro-area
governments’ efforts to rein in ballooning budget deficits may
also damp German exports, a key driver of growth. The economic
outlook “has clouded more than previously expected,” the
Bundesbank said last week.  “Given that the fundamentals in  Germany  are still good,
we’re at risk of talking the economy into recession like a self-
fulfilling prophecy,” said  Andreas Scheuerle , an economist at
Dekabank in Frankfurt. “After all the growth downgrades,
companies face a fog of uncertainty which may cause them to
postpone investments.”  Ifo’s gauge of the current situation may decrease to 115.7
from 118.1, while an index measuring executives’ expectations
probably fell to 97.3 from 100.1, the economist survey shows.  Forecast Cut  The European Commission cut its euro-region growth
forecasts for the second half on Sept. 15 and warned the economy
may come “close to standstill at year-end.”  Standard & Poor’s 
last week lowered Italy’s credit rating, saying weaker growth
may mean the nation won’t be able to reduce the region’s second-
largest debt load.  German investor confidence fell to the lowest in more than
2 1/2 years in September, the ZEW Center for European Economic
Research in Mannheim said on Sept. 20. Exports unexpectedly
declined for a second month in July, underscoring signs Europe’s
largest economy is losing momentum as the global recovery
falters.  Euro-area services and manufacturing output shrank for the
first time in more than two years in September and  consumer
confidence  tumbled to the lowest in two years on increasing
recession fears.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  cut its full-year profit
forecast on Sept. 20 and said it would deepen capacity cuts this
winter after last month’s results were weaker than expected as
the growth slowdown hampered forward bookings.  ‘Better Prepared’  Some companies aren’t feeling the slowdown yet.  Lanxess AG (LXS) ,
Germany’s largest publicly traded specialty-chemicals maker,
said last week business improved in the third quarter from a
year earlier on higher demand for synthetic rubber.  Daimler AG (DAI) ,
the world’s largest maker of heavy-duty vehicles, expects truck
sales to keep growing, and Adam Opel GmbH raised its sales
forecast for its Zafira model after receiving a positive
response at the International Motor Show for the car.  The euro’s 9 percent decline against the dollar since early
May could boost export returns.  “Germany is better prepared to weather the crisis than
other countries as the euro has depreciated, the order backlog
is still high and  interest rates  are expansive,” said  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING Group in Brussels. “Growth in the
third quarter may surprise on the positive side, while it could
be slightly negative in the fourth. It’s likely to be a
slowdown, not a crash.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Vits in  Frankfurt  at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  