-- 
Middle East Peace No Closer as Netanyahu, Abbas Emerge Unscathed From UN

-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 
2011-09-26T12:53:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/middle-east-peace-no-closer-as-netanyahu-abbas-emerge-unscathed-from-un.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  and Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas 
emerged from their showdown at the  United Nations  buttressed
domestically though no closer to peace talks.  “Abbas succeeded in strengthening his standing among
Palestinians and his ideology of achieving statehood
diplomatically against the challenge from the Islamist right
represented by Hamas,” said Hussein Ibish, senior research
fellow with the American Task Force on  Palestine , a nonpartisan
Washington-based group that advocates a peaceful two-state
solution. Netanyahu also “solidified his political position,”
Ibish said.  Negotiations between Israelis and Palestinians broke down a
year ago on the issue of building in West Bank settlements.
Abbas asked the UN last week to recognize an independent
Palestinian state, a step opposed by  Israel  and the U.S.  Netanyahu returned from the U.S. today and will hold
discussions with advisers and Cabinet members as the battle over
statehood continues at the UN. The Security Council will hold a
meeting today to discuss the Palestinian application. It could
take weeks or months before a vote is held. Abbas returned
yesterday to Ramallah where he was greeted by thousands of
cheering Palestinians gathered in the courtyard of his
headquarters.  “Long Journey’  “Our international journey has begun and a long journey
lies ahead,” Abbas told them.  Abbas hasn’t agreed to a proposal by the Middle East
Quartet to restart direct talks with Israel and reach agreement
no later than the end of 2012; the plan doesn’t specify a halt
to the expansion of settlements. Palestinians say they will not
resume talks until Israel stops its building in the  West Bank .  Netanyahu responded more positively to the initiative by
the Quartet, comprised of the U.S., UN, European Union and
 Russia . He will begin consultations today with his ministers on
issuing a formal response, according to an Israeli official who
spoke anonymously because he wasn’t authorized to speak on the
record.  The Quartet proposal came after Abbas spoke at the UN
General Assembly on Sept. 23 and called on the Security Council
to recognize a Palestinian state and grant it full UN
membership.  Israeli Satisfaction  Israeli officials expressed satisfaction with developments
at the UN, especially the speech by U.S. President  Barack Obama 
stressing Israel’s security needs and not mentioning settlements
or referring to the 1967 borders, two issues of contention.  “This was a political win for Netanyahu, most importantly
the Obama speech which was a reconciliation with the U.S. on his
own terms, and the failure of the Palestinians to bring a vote
on their statehood initiative to the  Security Council ,” said
 Gerald Steinberg , political scientist at Bar Ilan University
outside  Tel Aviv .  “America supports Israel in unparalleled ways,
unprecedented ways,” Netanyahu said yesterday in  New York  on
NBC-TV’s “Meet the Press.”  U.S. backing at the UN insured Netanyahu against having to
make concessions on settlements or borders that could have
spurred opposition from his government’s coalition partners,
said Jonathan Spyer, a political scientist at the
Interdisciplinary Center Herzliya. This is particularly so from
Foreign Minister Avigdor Liberman, head of the Yisrael Beitenu
party, who has expressed skepticism on reaching any kind of
statehood deal with the Palestinians.  ‘Mounting a Challenge’  “There was talk before Netanyahu left for the UN of
Liberman mounting a challenge, but he’s coming back with enough
political wind in his sails to forestall any such threat for
now,” Spyer said.  Netanyahu will also benefit for the time being from the
opposition  Labor Party ’s selection last week of Shelly
Yacimovich as its new leader, according to Steinberg. Yacimovich
has said she will focus more on social and economic issues than
the conflict with the Palestinians.  Israel’s economy is growing faster than the rest of the
developed world, with the International Monetary Fund
forecasting growth of 4.8 percent this year, and unemployment at 
5.4 percent in July, the lowest since at least 1985. Israel’s
economy will probably expand 5 percent this year, the  Central
Bureau of Statistics  said today.  Stocks Climb  Israeli stocks climbed for a second day, rebounding from
their biggest decline in almost three weeks as concern eased
that violence would increase following the Palestinian statehood
bid. The TA-25 Index rose as much as 1.2 percent and was trading
at 1071.75 at 2:46 p.m.  Unless the Quartet initiative gains traction, a negotiated
settlement, or even talks between Netanyahu and Abbas to reach
that goal, may be unlikely any time soon.  “The leaders remain too far apart, both on the issues and
even on the terms of reference, and we can’t expect anything
bold from the U.S. during an election season,” said Ibish.  Steinberg said that “we had a stalemate before the UN and
we have a stalemate after.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  