-- 
Independents Still Seek Their 2012 Anointed One: Albert R. Hunt

-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 
2011-09-25T15:01:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/independents-still-seek-their-2012-anointed-one-albert-r-hunt.html
Political independents, who account
for more than one-quarter of the U.S. electorate and are
probably the key to the 2012 presidential election, are voicing
strong reservations about  Barack Obama  as well as the Republican
brand.  As the national election goes into high gear with more than
13 months to go, the focus often is on polls showing the horse
race among candidates. More instructive at this stage is how
various segments of the American population, differentiated by
age, gender, or other elements, are evolving.  Self-styled independents, almost by definition, are the
most interesting demographic to watch. In 2008, they gave Obama
an 8-point advantage, most of his margin of victory.  In the Bloomberg National Poll conducted this month, the
incumbent president leads by 6 points among independents in a
matchup against Texas Governor  Rick Perry ; Obama runs even among
this group in a head-to-head race with former Massachusetts
Governor Mitt Romney. Even more troubling to the White House:
Independents give the president bad marks on handling the
economy, creating jobs and reducing the deficit.  More than three-quarters of political independents say the
nation is moving in the wrong direction and an even larger share
believe the U.S. is still in a recession or about to fall into
one. By almost 2-to-1, they say they’re worse off than when
Obama took office. And by a 3-to-2 margin, they don’t believe
the jobs package he announced this month will lower unemployment.  The president needs to turn around some of these numbers to
be re-elected.  Social Issues  Yet independents aren’t flocking to Republicans, either. By
57 percent to 32 percent they express unfavorable views about
the party in general. The hard-line positions taken by
Republican candidates on questions such as global warming or
social issues make independents less likely to vote for them
next year, the poll shows.  By better than 2-to-1 they blame congressional Republicans
more than Obama for the dysfunction in  Washington .  The centerpiece of the Republican agenda on both the
congressional and presidential level is a vow not to use tax
increases to curb deficit spending. That doesn’t sit well with
independents; 56 percent favor increasing taxes on households
making more than $250,000 a year, and a plurality says  deficit
reduction  should focus more on tax increases than reductions in
entitlement spending.  And independents give a resounding thumbs-down to the
proposal by House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan  to replace
Medicare with a system in which people would receive assistance
to buy private health insurance.  Age Difference  Age is a leading indicator in U.S. elections. Three years
ago, candidate Obama won almost two-thirds of the vote of
Americans under 35; his Republican rival, Senator  John McCain  of
 Arizona , held about a 5-point margin with voters older than 55.  Those patterns still emerge in the Bloomberg poll, with
subtle, potentially important changes on both ends. Those
younger Americans favor the president over Romney, 55 percent to
37 percent, and give him a slightly larger lead over Perry. That
means he’s running behind his last performance.  Among the older set -- 55 and over -- Romney beats Obama by
4 points while Perry runs slightly behind. This is relatively
good news for the president.  Part of this reflects the cross-currents in the debate over
curbing entitlements, Social Security and Medicare. The
Republicans are stronger advocates of cuts, Democrats more
likely to be resistant, though that often cuts against the grain
of their chief age group supporters.  ‘ Ponzi Scheme ’  For example, 55 percent of Americans under 35 -- who tend
to be Democrats -- agree with Perry’s description of Social
Security as a “Ponzi scheme;” only 34 percent of those 55 and
older agree.  The same role reversal is apparent when it comes to Ryan’s
Medicare proposal. Younger respondents are evenly divided;
senior citizens and those approaching that age category, who
would be exempt from the change under the proposal, oppose it by
3 to 1.  Some of this, to be sure, reflects perceived self-interest.
A majority of older citizens, many of whom no longer pay payroll
taxes, like the notion of raising the amount of salary subject
to Social Security taxes; younger Americans, subject to these
taxes, are split on that issue.  The long-existing gender gap persists, with women decidedly
more Democratic and men heavily Republican. A look at the
political attitudes of moms and dads suggests some tense dinner-
table conversations.  Women’s Optimism  Mothers clearly prefer Obama to any of his Republican
opponents, give him reasonably high marks and say they are
optimistic about things working out. A large majority of dads
say they’ll definitely vote for anyone other than Obama next
year and are more pessimistic about the economy and the country,
with more than half saying they’ve given up hope.  Interestingly, Catholics, who make up about one-quarter of
the American electorate, have become more anti-Obama judging by
this survey and are more receptive to Republicans. Overall 46
percent of Catholic respondents have a favorable view of the
 Republican Party , while only about one-third of non-Catholics
feel that way.  In the Republican field, Catholics give higher marks to
Romney, a Mormon, than to Perry, the Protestant. There are other
elements in these cross-tabulations that suggest a less
predictable than usual election in 2012: The president runs
ahead of Romney among Hispanics, though he falls short of the 67
percent to 31 percent margin he enjoyed in the last election.
And the anti-government  Tea Party , which played such a large
role in the congressional elections a year ago, gets across-the-
board negative marks, except from Republicans.  If there is an early message from such soundings it is this:
America has an agitated and volatile electorate, so beware
conventional wisdom and expect surprises.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for Washington at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 