-- 
Indonesia Church Bomber Part of Cirebon Terrorist Network, Yudhoyono Says

-- B y   F e m i   A d i   a n d   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 
2011-09-25T17:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/indonesia-church-bomber-part-of-cirebon-terrorist-network-yudhoyono-says.html
The suicide bomber who attacked a
Christian church in the Indonesian city of Solo in Central Java
province yesterday was part of a terrorist network based in
Cirebon, West Java, President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono said.  The bomber detonated his device as people were exiting the
building after services ended, killing himself and wounding 27
other people, one critically, Anton Bahrul Alam, a spokesman for
 Indonesia ’s national police, told reporters at a press briefing
yesterday in Jakarta.  “Based on the early investigation, the suicide bomber is a
member of the terrorist network in Cirebon,” Yudhoyono told
reporters at a press briefing at the presidential palace in
Jakarta. “I have instructed the National Police to dismantle
the network of actors and their funding.”  Yesterday’s attack, the second suicide bombing in Indonesia
this year after a bomber attacked a mosque in a police station
in Cirebon, West Java province in April, killing himself and
wounding several officers, underscores the need for authorities
to improve intelligence gathering to detect plots before they
are carried out, said Noor Huda Ismail, founder of the Jakarta-
based Institute of International Peace Building.  “Even though the powerful jihadist people are already
detained, the transfer of knowledge is still happening,” Ismail
said by phone from Semarang, Central Java. “I realize it isn’t
easy, but the police need to increase detection.”  Indonesia, a secular state with the world’s biggest
population of Muslims, has stepped up raids against terror
suspects since 2009 bombings at Jakarta’s JW Marriott and Ritz-
Carlton hotels killed nine people, including the two attackers.
Authorities have blamed Jemaah Islamiyah, an al-Qaeda-linked
group, for attacks on hotels, nightclubs and embassies that
claimed more than 200 lives in the past decade.  More Attacks  In June, Indonesia cleric Abu Bakar Bashir was found guilty
of funding terrorism and sentenced to 15 years in prison, five
years after his acquittal for links to the 2002 bombings that
killed 202 people in the Bali tourist resort.  Attacks on non-Muslims or those seen as not adhering to a
certain interpretation of Islam have increased this year in
Indonesia.  On Feb. 10, three members of the Jamaah Ahmadiyah, a
minority Muslim sect, died when villagers attacked the home of
an Ahmadiyah member in Cikeusik district in Indonesia’s Banten
province. The government banned the group in 2008 from spreading
interpretations that deviate from the teachings of Islam, the
Indonesian Ministry of Religious Affairs said on its website.  Islamic Defenders Front  A group called the Islamic Defenders Front has demanded
that Yudhoyono outlaw the group, and threatened to overthrow the
government if he doesn’t comply.  On March 15, four people were sent bombs concealed in
books, one of which exploded, wounding five including a police
officer who lost his hand.  Bombs were sent to Ulil Absar Abdhala, founder of the
Liberal Islam Network; Gories Mere, a former head of Indonesia’s
Densus-88 anti-terrorism unit; Yapto S. Soeryosoemarno, chairman
of the Pancasila Youth organization; and Ahmad Dhani, an
Indonesian musician.  In July, Indonesia’s anti-terrorism agency asked local
authorities for help to identify extremist activity after a bomb
exploded inside an Islamic boarding school in West Nusa Tenggara
and weapons were discovered at the site.  Police will increase security at churches to prevent
further attacks, Alam said at the briefing yesterday.  “We will secure the churches before praying time, and we
will check people who want to enter the church,” he said. “We
don’t want it to happen again. We will do it in all churches in
Indonesia, so they can pray peacefully.”  Nadhlatul Ulama  GP Ansor, the youth wing of Indonesia’s largest Muslim
organization, Nadhlatul Ulama, will also help guard places of
worship, Nusron Wahid, the youth group’s head, told reporters at
a press briefing in Jakarta. At least 500 people are prepared to
volunteer, he said.  “Not only churches are threatened by the terrorists, but
also mosques and the national police,” he said. “It means that
this country is threatened. My suggestion is the intelligence
agency should openly communicate with any communities and social
elements in order to get information. The intelligence agency
should not only rely on the official sources, they should be
aware of information from the street.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Femi Adi in Jakarta at 
 fadi1@bloomberg.net ;
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net  