-- 
Israel Stocks Rise as Violence Concern Wanes

-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 
2011-09-25T15:52:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/israel-stocks-rise-as-violence-concern-on-palestinian-bid-wanes.html
Israeli stocks rebounded from their
biggest decline in almost three weeks as concern eased that
violence would increase following the Palestinian bid for
statehood at the  United Nations  last week.  Strauss Group Ltd. (STRS) , the country’s second-largest food
maker, advanced to the highest since Sept. 1. Paz Oil Co.
increased for the third time in four days. The TA-25 Index,
which lost 4.3 percent Sept. 22, climbed 2.1 percent to 1,060.29
at the 4:30 p.m. close in Tel Aviv. The measure also advanced
after the Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index posted its first gain in
five days on Sept. 23. The gauge of the most-traded Israeli
companies in  New York  advanced as global equities rebounded amid
speculation European governments will act to prevent a financial
crisis.  “Going into the weekend there was a lot of uncertainty
regarding the Palestinian UN bid and the reaction on the
Palestinian streets,” Saar Golan, a trader at Clal Finance
Brokerage Ltd. in Tel Aviv, said by telephone. “After the
speeches, there was relative quiet in the  West Bank  and the  Gaza
Strip  and perhaps come cautious optimism regarding future
talks.”  Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas presented his
case at the UN for recognition of Palestine as a member state,
while Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu called for
further talks. Israeli and Palestinian security forces bolstered
their presence in the West Bank prior to the meeting on concern
the statehood bid would spark violence.  Strauss jumped 5.3 percent to 46.44 shekels. Paz increased
4.5 percent to 487.30 shekels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  