-- 
Saudi King Authorizes Women to Run in Local Elections, Join Shoura Council

-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 
2011-09-26T07:49:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/king-abdullah-gives-women-in-saudi-arabia-the-right-to-vote-for-first-time.html
Saudi Arabia granted women the
right to vote for the first time in its modern history as part
of changes  King Abdullah  said will let them run in future
municipal elections.  “We refuse to marginalize the role of women in Saudi
society in every field of work,” Abdullah said yesterday on
state television. “Women have the right to submit their
candidacy for municipal council membership and have the right to
take part in submitting candidates in accordance with Shariah.”  Saudi Arabia enforces gender restrictions interpreted from
the Wahhabi version of Sunni Islam. Men and women are strictly
segregated in public, including at schools, restaurants and
lines at fast-food takeouts. That keeps women out of sales jobs
in malls and stores, unless the outlet caters exclusively to a
female clientele, and they are also barred from driving.  The king also said yesterday women can now be part of the
Shoura Council, his advisory body. Abdullah, who was born in
1924, has promised to improve the status of women and opened the
first co-educational university in 2009. He appointed the
kingdom’s first female deputy minister, Nora bint Abdullah al- Fayez, the same year and has said he will provide women more
access to jobs.  “We hope that with Saudi women going to the municipal
council, they will be able to drive in the future,” Ibrahim al-
Mugaiteeb, president of the Human Rights First Society, said in
a phone interview from al-Khobar in eastern  Saudi Arabia 
yesterday. “It is a huge step forward.”  Consulting Scholars  The Riyadh-based Shoura Council, a 150-member assembly, is
appointed by the king to advise on legislation. The assembly
consists of 12 committees, covering topics such as human rights,
foreign affairs and energy. The council, whose current speaker
is Abdullah Al al-Sheikh, is permitted to propose draft laws and
present them to the king.  Abdullah said the decision was taken “after consultations
with many of our scholars.” He said broader participation by
women in society would contribute to national development.  Saudi leaders have failed to deliver on past promises to
expand  women’s rights . In 2005, Saudi Foreign Minister Prince
Saud al-Faisal said women may be allowed to vote in future
municipal elections. Instead, they have been excluded from the
ballot on Sept. 29, when about 1.2 million men will elect 816
municipal council members.  Mohammed al-Qahtani, a Riyadh-based activist, said the
expansion of the voting franchise masks a refusal by Saudi
rulers to grant substantial power to the population.  ‘Regime’s Reputation’  “The issue of women is the easy way out, because it can
polish the regime’s reputation in the world,” he said in a
phone interview yesterday. “People could have gotten the
message that they will be enfranchised into the political
system. That did not happen.”  Saudi Arabia, the world’s biggest oil exporter, was ranked
the least democratic country in the  Middle East  in the Economist
Intelligence Unit’s 2010 Democracy Index. An absolute monarchy,
it has been ruled by six kings since it was established in 1932.  Yesterday’s announcement marks the second step the king has
taken since June to address longstanding demands made by women.
That month, the king issued a royal decree requiring that only
women work in “shops selling women’s necessities.” The move
triggered a Labor Ministry order to lingerie shops and make-up
stores to switch their male staff with women.  Challenging Driving Ban  Women in Saudi Arabia got behind the wheels of their cars
in June to challenge the authorities’ refusal to lift the
world’s only ban on driving by females. The plan to get women
with international driving licenses out in their cars followed a
campaign that led to the detention of one of the activists,
Manal al-Sharif.  In his last televised address to the nation in March,
Abdullah ordered sweeping increases in spending, including $67
billion on housing and funds for the military and religious
groups that backed the government’s ban on domestic protests.  The measures were aimed at ensuring that unprecedented
unrest in the Middle East, where popular movements toppled
leaders in Egypt, Libya and  Tunisia , didn’t spread to his
kingdom. Violent clashes persist in Saudi Arabia’s neighbors,
Yemen and Bahrain. Saudi Arabia didn’t experience political
unrest, though there were limited protests held by the Shiite
minority in the kingdom’s  Eastern Province .  “We do not allow any threat to the national unity and
security of society,” Abdullah said in the  speech yesterday .
“Reviving tribal pride and playing on the strings of sectarian
conflict as well as labeling segments of society and using
derogatory epithets and names are contrary to Islam.”  Saudi Arabia sent troops to Bahrain in March to help
suppress protests led mostly by Shiite Muslims, a majority in
Bahrain, calling for free elections and a constitutional
monarchy. Security of the Gulf Cooperation Council states is
“indivisible from the kingdom’s,” Abdullah said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  