-- 
Kudrin Prefers Greek Rescue to Prevent Italy, Spain Contagion

-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 
2011-09-25T02:00:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/kudrin-prefers-greek-rescue-to-prevent-italy-spain-contagion.html
Europe  should find a solution to
prevent Greece from defaulting on its debt, which would raise
risks for countries including Spain and  Italy , Russian Finance
Minister Alexei Kudrin said.  “The risks to the global economy would sharply rise and
the yields on Italian and Spanish debt would also sharply
rise,” Kudrin told reporters today in  Washington . “Regardless,
it would be harder to service your debt.”  European governments are mulling a faster start to a
permanent rescue fund to shore up banks to contain an 18-month
debt crisis. U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner told an
International Monetary Fund meeting that the Greek-led turmoil
may lead to “cascading default, bank runs and catastrophic
risk.”  Asked whether he thought  Greece  would default, Kudrin said,
“I hope it won’t.” The Russian delegation didn’t advocate any
position on Greek debt during this week’s meetings because it is
not a direct creditor, he said.  “We’re not directly dependent on Greece, and we’re not
suffering from their debt directly,” Kudrin said. “We’re not
among their creditors. That’s why we’re not ready to offer any
prescriptions for how best to ask.”  Still, creditors should base their decision on a
“realistic situation,” considering how much Greece is able to
pay and how much Europe and the IMF can afford to help, he said.  “It’s like a front, and a breach in the front -- even in a
narrow spot -- could weaken the rest of the front and bring the
enemy closer to home.”  Any help  Russia  would offer would be through existing
instruments of the IMF, Kudrin said. BRICS countries -- Brazil,
Russia, India, China and  South Africa  -- agreed this week that
they would focus on instruments that are already around, Kudrin
said.  “We’re not talking about some unknown or additional
instruments, we’re talking about the instruments that already
exist,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Washington at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  