-- 
Kuwait Lower Court Annuls Zain Board, All Decisions, Lawyer Says

-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d   a n d   D a h l i a   K h o l a i f
-- 
2011-09-25T12:03:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/kuwait-lower-court-annuls-zain-board-all-decisions-lawyer-says.html
A Kuwaiti lower court annulled all
decisions taken by the board of Zain, the country’s biggest
mobile telephone company, a lawyer for a former board member who
filed the case said.  The ruling was based on a lawsuit filed by former board
member Sheikh Khalifa Ali Al-Sabah based on a report by the
commerce ministry, which cited “violations” that took place
during a general assembly meeting, the lawyer, Rashed al-Radaan,
said. These violations included failing to record shareholders’
complaints and “stopping some shareholders from entering,
locking the doors,” the lawyer said.  “The commercial court ruled today the annulment of the
normal general assembly for Zain to elect the company’s board
and all decisions based on it,” al-Radaan said in a telephone
interview. “All decisions following this election are
incorrect, including the Batelco/Kingdom deal.”  Al-Radaan was referring to an accord signed in April by
Zain, as Mobile Telecommunications Co. is known, with  Kingdom
Holding Co. (KINGDOM)  and Bahrain Telecommunications Co. to sell its 25
percent stake in Zain Saudi Arabia.  “This is an issue for the board of directors and
shareholders,” a Zain spokesman said when asked about today’s
ruling. He declined to be identified due to company policy.  The commercial court ruling is not final, the lawyer said.  Zain’s current board was elected during an annual general
meeting on April 12. Sheikh Khalifa whose  Al-Fawares Holding Co. 
owns a 4.5 percent stake in Zain, did not stand for re-election
at the time.  While a board member of Zain, Sheikh Khalifa had opposed
any sale of Zain to Emirates Telecommunications Corp., known as
Etisalat, which in March announced the end of talks to buy a
majority stake in the Kuwaiti company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net ;
Dahlia Kholaif in Kuwait at 
 dkholaif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  