-- 
Napoleon, Henry IV’s Ladies Seduced By Eccentric Wines of Jura

-- B y   E l i n   M c C o y
-- 
2011-09-25T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/napoleon-henry-iv-s-ladies-seduced-by-eccentric-wines-of-jura-elin-mccoy.html
Below my feet, deep under the
French village of Arlay, lie 30,000 bottles of  Caves Jean
Bourdy ’s vintages, stretching all the way back to 1781.  That 230-year-old wine is a vin jaune, or “yellow wine,”
from the tiny Jura region’s most prestigious appellation,
Chateau-Chalon.  I’m sipping the tangy 1969 vintage in the cellar of Jean-
Francois Bourdy, the fifteenth generation at this family
domaine, who waves around a cigarette as he says, “These old
wines are worth a fortune, and they’re still completely
drinkable.”  Its nutty, oxidative character reminds me a bit of dry
sherry, but the savory saltiness, zing of acidity, and spice-
toffee-and-curry powder aromas and flavors are unique, as is the
way the wine is made.  Be warned. Vin jaune challenges palate expectations and
harkens back to an earlier era. The wine once had illustrious
admirers -- Prince von Metternich, Napoleon, Rabelais. A
winemaker tells me Henry IV used bottles of it to seduce women.  Now the Jura’s most famous wine is finding new fans among
old-wine aficionados, adventurous geeks looking for different
tastes, and edgy sommeliers at places like  New York ’s Ma Peche
and Gramercy Tavern.  I fell in love with it -- but not with all the examples I
tried -- on a recent visit.  Nestled in a valley between Burgundy and  Switzerland , the
Jura is one of  France ’s smallest wine regions, a quiet, green,
bucolic place of obscure grape varieties, eccentric wines, Comte
cheese, and the ubiquitous dish, creamy coq au vin jaune. In
Arbois, Louis Pasteur’s home lab, now a museum, displays test
tubes filled with old Jura wines.  Geography Lesson  A few fast facts: there are four geographic appellations
(Chateau-Chalon, Cotes du Jura, Arbois, and L’Etoile) and five
main grapes -- savagnin (no, not sauvignon blanc) and chardonnay
for whites; poulsard, trousseau, and pinot noir for reds.  In addition to vin jaune, made from 100 percent savagnin,
most domaines make a half dozen reds, roses, and whites, plus
sparkling Cremant du Jura. There are sweet oddities like Vin de
Paille, made from air-dried grapes, and weird, potent Macvin, a
liqueur-like blend of late-harvest wine fortified with marc, a
grape-based eau de vie. Many reds and whites last for decades.  Vin jaune, though, is the classic. It’s made in all
geographic appellations, but terroir counts. Savagnin grown on
rocky blue marl, like that in the steep 50-hectare Chateau-
Chalon vineyard, produces finer wines with more elegance.  Foamy Cover  Surrounded by cobwebbed bottles and barrels, Bourdy
explains that after the juice ferments, he stores the wine in
oak barrels. As it evaporates, he doesn’t keep topping up to
avoid exposure to air.  A foamy layer of yeast cells (the voile) forms on top of
the liquid wine, protecting it from extreme oxidation. Aging
lasts at least six years and three months, but Bourdy waits
seven or more, tasting twice a year for quality.  When a barrel survives, it seems to be nearly
indestructible. Which is why two old-wine specialists ping-
ponged the price for a 237-year-old bottle to 57,000 euros (then
$77,270) earlier this year at the annual La Percee du Vin Jaune
festival auction in Arbois. Swiss collector Pierre Chevrier,
author of the poetically titled “Le Vin d’Hier,”
(“Yesterday’s Wine”) a book about historic wines, won out over
Francois Audouze, retired chief executive officer of Arus SA,
the French steel company, who is famed for staging  dinners with
ancient wines  for aficionados at Paris restaurants.  Wine and Walnuts  Afterwards, Audouze consoled himself with a visit to
Bourdy’s cellars to snap up a few old vintages. Three weeks ago,
at his 149th dinner, he poured the producer’s 1911 Chateau-
Chalon alongside vin jaune’s best food partners -- Comte cheese
and walnuts.  Still, this wine isn’t for everybody, and young vignerons
are pushing the boundaries of tradition. A decade ago, producers
started making non-oxidative savagnin, labeled ouille, and many
(including Bourdy) have embraced organic and biodynamic
viticulture.  One is talented  Stephane Tissot , who took over his family’s
Domaine Tissot in the 1990s. Sunburned from a day in the
vineyards, his pink-and-white checked shirt casually untucked,
he arrives at Domaine du Val de Sorne’s restaurant in Vernantois
with saggy cardboard boxes filled with some of his 35 different
wines.  An enthusiastic experimenter, he pours several provocative
takes on the savagnin grape.  ‘Too Young’  A 2009 Savagnin with an orangey color was vinified in clay
anforas. I don’t think he has this one quite right yet, but his
flowery, citrusy 2010 Traminer ($26), labeled to underline
savagnin’s cousin relationship to the traminer grape, is
wonderfully bright, yet powerful.  Tissot aged his complex, smoky 2004 “W” Vin Jaune ($60)
in whisky casks to reinforce the wine’s peaty flavor. It’s way
too young now, and I wonder how it will age.  “I like renovating old styles,” he says, “I have lots of
original wines coming out shortly.”  The next night, in Paris, I stop by just-opened wine bar La
Compagnie des Vins Surnaturels. On the list are three Jura wines
from Stephane Tissot. France’s capital is paying attention. Wake
up collectors!  ( Elin McCoy  writes on wine and spirits for Bloomberg News.
The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this story:
Elin McCoy at  elinmccoy@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 