-- 
Netanyahu Favors Quartet Peace Talks Proposal

-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 
2011-09-25T09:50:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/netanyahu-favors-quartet-proposal-for-israel-palestinian-peace-discussions.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  responded favorably to a proposal from international
mediators to restart peace talks and will consult with his
government before issuing a formal response, an official said.  Netanyahu plans to meet with Cabinet ministers to discuss
the initiative after returning to Israel from New York tomorrow,
said the Israeli official, who declined to be identified because
he wasn’t authorized to speak on the record. Netanyahu’s initial
reaction was positive because the statement from the so-called
Mideast Quartet calls for negotiations without specifying
preconditions, he said.  The Palestinians have indicated they were unlikely to
accept the proposal from the Quartet, which is comprised of the
U.S.,  United Nations , European Union and  Russia . Palestinian
Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  said that while he was still
studying it, he won’t deal with any initiative that doesn’t
demand a halt to Israeli settlement construction, AP reported.  The Quartet proposal came after Abbas spoke at the UN
General Assembly on Sept. 23 and called on the  Security Council 
to recognize a Palestinian state and grant it full UN
membership. The US has threatened to veto the move and is
calling for a resumption of talks. The Security Council will
meet to discuss the Palestinian application tomorrow. It could
take weeks or months before a vote is held.  Israeli Warning  Israeli Foreign Minister Avigdor Liberman warned that UN
passage of the Palestinian application for membership would lead
to a tough response.  “That would bring us to an altogether new situation and
this would have repercussions, severe repercussions,” Liberman
said in an interview from  New York  with Israeli Army Radio.
“Any unilateral step will without a doubt bring an Israeli
reaction.”  Abbas is scheduled to return to Ramallah today.  The Quartet proposal lays out a timeline for peace talks in
which Israelis and Palestinians would reach a final status
agreement that would end the conflict by December 2012.  There was nothing in its statement that indicated how the
Israeli-Palestinian impasse might be broken, other than putting
the burden on the adversaries to “overcome current obstacles”
and resume negotiations “without delay or preconditions.”  Negotiations broke down a year ago after Netanyahu refused
to renew a 10-month partial freeze on new construction in
settlements.  No Reference  The Quartet statement makes no reference to settlement
building, saying only that the parties should “refrain from
provocative actions.”  If negotiations resume “I will be the one who reaches a
peace agreement between two nations, one of which will be a
demilitarized Palestinian state that recognizes a Jewish
state,” Netanyahu said in an interview broadcast Saturday on
 Israel ’s Channel Two.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  