-- 
Novartis Drug Curbs Breast Cancer in ’Game-Changing’ Study

-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-09-26T15:52:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/novartis-s-afinitor-curbs-breast-cancer-in-game-changing-study.html
Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s kidney-cancer drug
Afinitor also prevented breast cancer from worsening in a study
that the Swiss drugmaker plans to use in applying for regulatory
approval.  Among women with breast tumors that had spread after
treatment, Afinitor more than doubled the time until their
disease worsened compared with those who only got  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s
Aromasin, according to results presented at a cancer conference
in Stockholm today. The trial was stopped early because the
primary goal was met earlier than expected.  “This could be game-changing,” Jose Baselga, a  Harvard
Medical School  professor and chief of hematology and oncology at
 Massachusetts General Hospital  who led the study, said in an
interview. “I don’t recall a study in this patient population
that had this magnitude of an effect. It’s pretty exciting.”  The findings move Novartis closer to marketing Afinitor for
a fourth tumor type. The Basel-based company plans to apply for
regulatory approval this year to sell Afinitor as a  breast
cancer  treatment, and expects it to be on the market in the U.S.
and Europe by the end of next year.  That would add more than $1 billion to annual sales over
time, Herve Hoppenot, president of the company’s cancer
division, said in an interview in Stockholm.  European Approval Likely  European regulators are likely to approve the drug for
breast cancer based on today’s result, said Tim Race, an analyst
at Deutsche Bank AG in  London  who rates Novartis shares “buy.”
The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  may want to see longer-
term data on whether Afinitor prolongs survival, he said.  An FDA advisory committee voted in June in favor of
withdrawing marketing approval for  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s Avastin in
breast cancer after longer-term studies showed the drug
increased side effects and didn’t prolong survival compared with
chemotherapy.  “That’s why the market’s going to be a little bit careful
with this data, and not price it in fully until they see a
regulatory approval,” Race said in a telephone interview today.  Novartis rose 1.3 percent to 49.12 Swiss francs in Zurich
trading, compared with a 1.8 percent gain in the Bloomberg
Europe Pharmaceutical Index.  Andrew Weiss , an analyst at Bank Vontobel AG in Zurich,
upgraded his peak sales forecast for Afinitor in breast cancer
to $1.8 billion from $1.5 billion. Sales of the drug in all
disease types may reach $3.5 billion, he wrote in a note today.
Revenue from the medicine more than tripled last year to $243
million.  Other Tumor Types  Afinitor, which is already approved in the U.S. as a
treatment for cancers of the kidney and pancreas, as well as
non-cancerous brain tumors, blocks a protein called mTOR that
some cancer cells require to grow and multiply. Novartis is also
testing the drug in patients with other types of breast cancer,
as well as lymphoma and stomach and liver cancer.  Aromasin, also known as exemestane, stymies the production
of the female hormone estrogen, which can spur the growth of
breast tumors. Most women whose disease has spread aren’t helped
by hormone therapy, and those who are usually become resistant
to the treatment, Novartis said.  Side Effects  The trial involved 724 women in 24 countries with an
average age of 62 for whom hormone therapy was no longer
controlling their cancer. Those who received Afinitor had a
median delay of 6.9 months until their disease worsened,
compared with 2.8 months among women who only received Aromasin,
the study showed.  A separate analysis showed the benefit may have been as
much as 10.6 months, compared with 4.1 months. The most common
severe side effects of Afinitor were mouth ulcers, anemia and
shortness of breath.  Novartis said in July that the trial had met its primary
goal, and that Afinitor had “significantly” delayed disease
progression, without providing details.  More than 200,000 women worldwide have the form of breast
cancer that Novartis is targeting with Afinitor, of which 85,000
live in wealthy places such as the U.S.,  Japan  and in  Europe ,
Hoppenot said.  “We are very optimistic about this program,” he said.
“It can become a very significant part of our portfolio over
the next four, five years.”  Afinitor should now be tested in women with early-stage
breast cancer to see whether it can prevent tumors from
recurring, said Richard Gelber, a  professor  in biostatistics at
Harvard Medical School.  “It works,” Gelber said in an interview in Stockholm.
“Let’s move it forward and see if it can help other patients at
an earlier phase.”  Such studies are under discussion “but nothing is planned
at this time,” Novartis said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in  Stockholm  via 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  