-- 
Novartis’s Zometa Fights Breast Cancer in ‘Strange Result’

-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-09-25T14:22:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/novartis-s-zometa-fights-breast-cancer-in-post-menopausal-women.html
Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s Zometa, which failed
to prevent  breast cancer  returning in a large patient study, did
help some women after all, a new analysis of the results showed.  Among post-menopausal women, Zometa cut the risk of the
cancer recurring by 25 percent, according to findings presented
at a cancer conference in  Stockholm  today. Conversely, it may
have harmed younger women who were still having a monthly
period. The findings were published today in the New  England 
Journal of Medicine.  Results of the so-called Azure trial announced last year
showed Zometa offered no overall benefit to women, prompting
Novartis to withdraw its applications to market the drug against
breast cancer in the U.S. and  Europe . The new findings are
likely to spur debate about whether doctors should consider
using the drug in post-menopausal women, said Robert Coleman,
the cancer doctor at Weston Park Hospital in Sheffield, England,
who led the study.  “This is a strange result,” Coleman said at a briefing
with reporters in Stockholm today. “This is not a treatment for
every woman with breast cancer, far from it. In the context of
other studies and additional data anticipated later in the year,
it is likely to change practice.”  Because the trial wasn’t designed to test Zometa
specifically in post-menopausal women, a further trial is now
being planned to confirm the findings, Coleman said.  Zometa, which is approved as a bone-repair treatment in
cancer patients and garnered $1.5 billion in sales last year, is
likely to have lost patent protection by the time that study is
completed, meaning doctors would be free to use generic copies
of the drug, said Herve Hoppenot, the president of Novartis’s
cancer division.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  