-- 
Obama Tells Donors Partisanship to Blame for Holding Up Action

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-09-26T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/obama-targets-hollywood-wallets-in-three-day-west-coast-fundraising-swing.html
President  Barack Obama , embarking
on a West Coast fundraising trip, told supporters that
partisanship in Washington is to blame for holding up steps that
could boost the economy.  "From the moment that I took office, what we’ve seen is a
constant ideological pushback against any kind of sensible
reforms that make our economy work better and give people more
opportunity," Obama told 65 donors last night in suburban
 Seattle  who paid the legal maximum of $35,800 to attend a brunch
meeting with him.  The event was hosted by Jon A. Shirley, who was president
and chief operating officer of Microsoft Corp. from 1983-1990.
Among the guests were James Sinegal, chief executive officer of
Issaquah, Washington-based Costco Wholesale Corp., and Gerald Grinstein, strategic director of Madrona Venture Group.  Obama is up for re-election next year and with his Office
of Management and Budget forecasting the  unemployment rate  will
average 9 percent in 2012, the president is seeking to maintain
enthusiasm among supporters in key electoral states.  After stopping in the Seattle area, the president raised
money in  San Jose , California and has events set for  San Diego ,
 Los Angeles  and Denver. Obama spent time promoting his $447
billion jobs proposal, which has drawn opposition from
Congressional Republicans and a mixed reaction from Democrats.  Pressuring Congress  “You need to put pressure on Congress” to pass the jobs
bill, Obama told donors at his second event last night, which
was at the Paramount Theatre in Seattle. About 1,750 people
contributed $100 each.  Going into the election, Obama told donors, “We are going
to just keep on drawing a clear contrast” with Republicans.  Still, “2012 is going to be tough,” he said, because “a
lot of people are discouraged, and a lot of people are
disillusioned.”  That discouragement is evident in  California , a reliably
Democratic state in presidential elections which gave Obama 60.1
percent of the vote in 2008. For the first time since he took
office, less than half of the state’s voters approve of his
performance, according to a  poll  by the non-partisan Field
Research Corporation.  Obama’s job approval rating fell to 46 percent, down from
54 percent in a June survey, according to the survey of 1,001
registered voters taken Sept. 1-12. The margin of error is plus
or minus 3.2 percentage points.  Unhappy Electorate  “We’ve got an electorate in California that is really
deeply concerned and, frankly, unhappy about the economy,” said
Rick Jacobs of Los Angeles, founder and chairman of The Courage
Campaign, an umbrella group for activist organizations in
California that generally support the  Democratic Party ’s agenda.  “Obama’s going to win California,” said Jacobs, who
attended White House briefings Sept. 23 for California activists
by Chief of Staff  William Daley , senior adviser  Valerie Jarrett 
and top cabinet officials. The question is whether he’ll get the
level of enthusiasm from supporters and activists that he had in
2008, he said.  Obama has been able to draw on donors amid the weak economy
and declining poll numbers.  “I don’t think big donors to the party are influenced by
short-term changes in poll numbers,” Linda L. Fowler, a
professor of government at  Dartmouth College  in Hanover,  New
Hampshire . “If the slide persists and the numbers get lower,
that is a different story.”  Fundraising Totals  The Obama campaign collected more than $86 million in the
quarter ended June 30, surpassing the combined haul of the
entire field of candidates for the Republican presidential
nomination. The total includes money collected by the  Democratic
National Committee .  Last night in California’s Silicon Valley, John W. Thompson, chairman of  Symantec Corp. (SYMC) , the largest maker of
computer-security software, hosts the president at his Woodside,
California, home, where contributions start at $2,500 per
couple.  “I’m back to report to you, my shareholders,” Obama said,
citing the overhaul of the health-care system and financial
regulations among his accomplishments.  “Even as we’ve gotten a huge amount done, there’s a lot of
folks on our side who get dispirited because we didn’t get it
all done in two and one-half years,” he said.  Facebook’s Sandberg Fundraiser  He ended the day in Atherton, California, at the home of
Sheryl Sandberg, chief operating officer of Facebook Inc. About
50 people are expected, with contributions of $35,800 per
couple.  The president is scheduled to make nine appearances during
the three-day trip, seven of them devoted to raising money.
Obama is making his 10th trip to California, his fourth to
 Colorado  and third to  Washington , since becoming president in
January 2009.  Today, LinkedIn Corp., the professional social network with
more than 120 million members worldwide, hosts the president at
a town hall meeting at its Mountain View, California,
headquarters, with the theme of “Putting America Back to
Work.”  The president resumes fundraising for the remainder of the
day, flying to San Diego for a fundraiser at a private home at
 La Jolla . Then it’s on to Los Angeles for a pair of fundraising
events.  Obama flies to Denver tomorrow to make an appearance at a
local high school to promote the jobs plan before returning to
the capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  