-- 
Obama Aide Plouffe Blames Republicans, Tea Party for Washington Gridlock

-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 
2011-09-25T15:59:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/obama-aide-plouffe-blames-republicans-tea-party-for-washington-gridlock.html
Republican congressional leaders
are putting the welfare of the majority of Americans behind the
agenda of  Tea Party  members of the U.S. House, said  David Plouffe , a White House special adviser.  In pressing President  Barack Obama ’s jobs creation bill,
Plouffe blamed Republican leaders and the Tea Party, whose
members advocate reducing  government spending , taxes and budget
deficits, for the  Washington  gridlock that has led to standoffs
over spending and economic legislation this year.  “The Republican leadership is putting their demands ahead
of the needs of 300 million Americans, and that has to stop,”
Plouffe said on the “Fox News Sunday” program. “I think the
country is tired of it.”  Plouffe’s comments are part of an administration offensive
to pressure Republicans as the president takes his case for his
jobs plan on the road.  With the jobless rate now at 9.1 percent, Obama has
proposed a $447 billion plan that is a mix of tax cuts and
spending that would include tens of billions of dollars to
rebuild roads, bridges and schools, an extension of benefits for
the long-term unemployed and aid for states and local
governments to avert layoffs of teachers, police and
firefighters.  To pay for the proposal, the president has suggested ending
tax breaks for oil and gas companies, hedge fund managers and
higher-income Americans.  Republicans, who control the House, have given the jobs
package a chilly reception, saying that tax increases would
discourage  job creation  and pointing to the elevated level of
unemployment even after the $830 billion stimulus program in
2009. Some Democrats also have reservations.  Graham’s Retort  Senator Lindsey Graham , a South Carolina Republican, said
today that it is the White House and the president who are
playing politics instead of working with Republicans to solve
the nation’s problems.  “Their approach after being beat is to go to Ohio and
 Kentucky  and give a speech about a bridge, and to declare class
warfare as their strategy in terms of solving the economy,” he
said on Fox News. “Every problem that he inherited is much
worse.”  In a separate appearance on ABC’s “This Week” program,
Plouffe said he expects the Democrat-controlled Senate will take
up Obama’s plan in October and he predicted it will pass.  “It’s got a very good chance,” he said. “This has tax
cuts for every small business and every worker, rehiring
teachers, modernizing our schools, helping rebuild our
infrastructure, all things that can help the economy in the
short term and are important for our long-term economic
future,” he said. “And they traditionally have had bipartisan
support.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 