-- 
Oil Climbs From Six-Week Low in New York; Brent Premium Narrows

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-09-26T00:20:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/oil-rebounds-from-six-week-low-in-new-york-trading-brent-premium-narrows.html
Oil rose from a six-week low in  New
York  as investors speculated European policy makers will step up
measures to ease a sovereign debt crisis that has disrupted
financial markets and slowed the economy, curbing fuel demand.  Futures increased as much as 1.3 percent, climbing for the
first day in four. European policy makers were pressured at the
annual meeting of the  International Monetary Fund  in  Washington 
to boost their regional rescue fund. U.S. Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner  said that governments must unite with the
 European Central Bank  to “create a firewall against further
contagion” and defuse the “most serious risk now confronting
the world economy.” Brent oil’s premium to U.S. prices narrowed
for a second day.  “I think everyone now fully understands the implications
of  Greece  defaulting,” said  Jonathan Barratt , a managing
director of Commodity Broking Services Pty in Sydney. “The key
is whether or not the market believes that this sort of support
will actually work.”  Crude for November delivery gained as much as $1 to $80.85
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $80.50 at 10:16 a.m. in Sydney. The contract
last week slid 9.2 percent to $79.85, the lowest settlement
since Aug. 9. Prices are 5.2 percent higher the past year.  Brent oil for November settlement was at $104.58 a barrel,
up 61 cents, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.
The European benchmark contract was $24.08 higher than U.S.
futures, compared with a record $26.87 on Sept. 6, based on
November settlement prices.  Libyan Output  Brent’s premium to New York oil narrowed amid signs that
Libyan supplies will return. Harouge Oil Operations, a joint
venture between  Libya ’s state-owned National Oil Corp. and
PetroCanada, will begin pumping crude from the country’s Amal
field in a “few weeks,” the company’s chairman Abdulwahab
Elnaami said yesterday.  Fighting in Libya since February has reduced the
availability of light, sweet crude, or oil with low density and
sulfur content. The country’s output fell to 45,000 barrels a
day last month, according to Bloomberg estimates, compared with
the 1.6 million barrels a day the nation pumped in January.  Global crude supplies are adequate and demand has weakened
because of the European financial crisis and general fears about
the world economy, Qatari Oil Minister Mohammed Saleh al Sada
said yesterday in Doha. Qatar is pleased that Libya is starting
to produce and export oil, al Sada said.  The 17 euro area nations accounted for about 12 percent of
global oil demand last year, according to Bloomberg calculations
based on BP Plc’s annual Statistical Review of World Energy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  