-- 
LME Facing Takeover as Record Commodity Volumes Attract Multiple Bidders

-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 
2011-09-26T16:44:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/london-metal-exchange-facing-takeover-bids-as-trade-volumes-reach-record.html
The  London  Metal Exchange, founded
134 years ago above a hat shop in the financial district, may be
the latest major mutual exchange to be bought after record
trading volumes attracted the interest of multiple bidders.  The bourse is valued at about 160 million pounds ($247
million), based on the last published price of its closely held
shares, according to  Niamh Alexander , an analyst at KBW Inc. in
 New York . The exchange’s value may be “significantly more”
than its 2010  net income  of 9.5 million pounds would suggest
because so few exchanges of its kind are for sale, said Ruben Lee, chief executive officer of Oxford Finance Group, a London-
based company specializing in financial and commodity markets.  The LME, which said Sept. 23 it had received “several
expressions of interest,” handles about 80 percent of global
trade in metals futures. Prices more than tripled in the past
decade as demand from emerging markets led by  China  overwhelmed
supplies from mines. The LME, which is owned by its members,
handled $11.6 trillion of contracts last year, compared with
$2.5 trillion in 1999, reflecting both higher prices and
increasing speculative interest in raw materials.  Power Shift  “The LME is the last major mutual exchange,” said
Christopher Gilbert, a professor at the University of Trento in
 Italy  who has followed the bourse since 1971. “A change in
ownership will shift the balance of power within the exchange
from the industrial users toward the financial community.”  The LME said Sept. 23 it would “begin a formal process
which may or may not lead to an acceptable offer for the company
being received.” The exchange hired U.S. investment bank Moelis
& Co. to advise it. Miriam Heywood, a spokeswoman for the
exchange, declined to elaborate on the statement.  Bidders may include  CME Group Inc. (CME) , the world’s largest
futures market,  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  and  Singapore
Exchange Ltd. (SGX) , KBW’s Alexander wrote in a report. Allan Schoenberg, a spokesman for CME in London,  Kelly Loeffler , a
spokeswoman for ICE in Atlanta, and Carolyn Lim, a spokeswoman
for Singapore Exchange, declined to comment. The London Stock
Exchange may also be interested, the Guardian reported on Sept.
23. LSE spokesman Ed Clark also declined to comment.  The selling price of more than 1 billion pounds as reported
by some news organizations “appears high,” UBS AG analyst Alex
Kramm said in a report today. LME may earn $27 million in 2012,
according to the report.  CME, ICE  CME, based in  Chicago , bought the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  for $7.6 billion in August 2008, while ICE, based in
Atlanta, bought the New York Board of Trade in 2007 for $1.79
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Singapore
Exchange ’s A$8.3 billion ($8.1 billion) offer to buy ASX Ltd.,
the owner of  Australia ’s main bourse, was blocked by the
Australian government in April.  Singapore Exchange and the LME have cooperated in
introducing copper, zinc and aluminum futures on the Southeast
Asian bourse. The LME-SGX contracts of five metric tons each
started trading in February and compare with the benchmark 25-
ton contracts traded in London. The bourse operator is not
looking for other merger opportunities,  Magnus Bocker ,
chief executive officer of Singapore Exchange, said this month.  ‘A Jewel’  “There are in fact very few successful exchanges that are
actually up for sale, so the LME is in that sense a jewel,”
said Lee of Oxford Finance Group. “The most likely bidders are
going to be the cash-rich exchanges which already have a
footprint in commodities. The LME has to be attractive to the
Asian exchanges, and it could be any one of them.”  Buying the LME would be a “relatively small” acquisition
for either CME or ICE, KBW’s Alexander wrote in her report. A
new owner could raise the exchange’s earnings by handling its
clearing, bringing back fees for market data and increasing
trading costs, she said. CME and ICE already have their own
clearing systems.  The LME clears trades through LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd., in
which it owns 3.27 million shares, and said in May it was
considering setting up a new clearing system to boost profit.
The exchange appointed Trevor Spanner, chief operating officer
of European Central Counterparty Ltd., as managing director of
post-trade services this month.  Glencore Share Sale  Interest in commodities surged in the past decade as
shortages drove prices higher. Investors held about $431 billion
in raw materials by July, an almost fivefold gain in six years,
according to  Barclays Capital . Glencore International Plc, the
Baar, Switzerland-based commodities trader, sold shares in May,
ending more than three decades of operating as a closely held
partnership. The offering valued the company at $59.2 billion.  The LME has 92 members listed on its website, including
units of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , Barclays Plc and Citigroup
Inc. There are seven categories of membership, conferring
different rights in the handling of contracts. There are 12
category 1 members who are allowed in the bourse’s ring, a 6-
meter-wide (20-foot) trading pit in Leadenhall Street, about a
10-minute walk from the  Bank of England .  It is London’s last so-called open outcry trading floor and
has its origins in the Jerusalem Coffee House in the financial
district where metals traders would meet in the early 19th
century. Merchants would draw a circle in the sawdust around
which people would make their bids.  Brokers also trade through the bourse’s Select electronic
platform and by phone. Select accounted for 52 percent of volume
and the ring 21 percent a year ago, LME data show.  Ordinary Shares  The exchange is owned by LME Holdings Ltd., which issues
two  share classes . There are 12.9 million ordinary shares, which
confer ownership and traded at 4.925 pounds in July, according
to data on the bourse’s website. There are also 1.34 million B
shares, which exchanged hands at 70 pounds in July. Neither
shares trade on an exchange.  Owners of B shares get no dividend and have no right to the
profits or assets of the company, according to the articles of
association. In the event of a distribution of assets, they are
entitled to get the nominal value of the capital paid up on each
share. They can’t attend company meetings unless changes to
their rights are being considered. It is mandatory for four
categories of membership to own the B shares.  “Metals trading continues to expand and new metals and
products are growing the reach of the market,” said  John Meyer ,
a mining and metals analyst at Fairfax IS in London. “The LME
is proven to be one of the, if not the, most resilient markets
in the world in times of crisis. In 2008, investors kept funds
with LME brokers rather than banks.”  Asian Tin  The LME was founded in 1877 to feed industrial Britain’s
need for metals. Its benchmark contracts are three-month futures
because that’s how long it took in the days of steamships to get
copper from  Chile  or tin from  Southeast Asia .  The LME started trading steel futures in 2008 and expanded
into molybdenum and cobalt in 2010, adding to eight contracts in
non-ferrous metals and its LMEX index of six industrial metals.
The bourse introduced so-called LMEminis in February, which are
available through the Singapore Exchange.  “The sale of the LME is an opportunity for the
shareholders to sell out based on current volume,” said David Threlkeld, president of Resolved Inc., a commodities trading and
hedging adviser in Scottsdale, Arizona. “Selling the LME at
this point would be as smart as Glencore going public at the
top.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  