-- 
London Luxury-Home Prices Gain as Buyers Seek Secure Assets

-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 
2011-09-26T09:23:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/london-luxury-home-prices-gain-as-investors-seek-secure-assets.html
Luxury  home prices  in central
London climbed the most in 11 months in September, Knight Frank
LLP said, as the European sovereign debt crisis encouraged
investors to buy less-risky assets.  Values of houses and apartments costing an average of 3.7
million pounds ($5.7 million) rose 11.4 percent from a year
earlier, the London-based real-estate broker said in a report
today. On a monthly basis, prices rose at the slowest rate since
October 2010 as buyers delayed purchases after the worst riots
in Britain since the 1980s.  “The Eurozone crisis is probably the biggest concern,
primarily because people are very uncertain about what would
happen if the euro broke up,”  Liam Bailey , head of residential
research, said by telephone. That makes assets in the U.K.
attractive because they’re denominated in pounds, he said.  On Sept. 20,  Italy  became the sixth euro-region country
this year to have its  credit rating  downgraded. Two days later,
the Stoxx Europe 600 Index slid to the lowest level since July
2009, extending a decline from this year’s high on Feb. 17. The
world economy faces high “downside risks,” International
Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said in an
interview with  Tom Keene  on Bloomberg Television last week.  Gross domestic product in the euro area will expand 1.7
percent in 2011, according to the median economist estimate in a
Bloomberg survey. Last year there was growth of 1.8 percent.  Russian Buyers  The number of prospective buyers viewing prime central
London properties increased 25 percent in the third quarter from
a year earlier, according to the report. Prices are at a record,
4.5 percent higher than the market’s last peak in March 2008.  The U.K.’s record-low interest rates and the pound’s
weakness are making central  London ’s real estate more attractive
to overseas buyers, Bailey said. International purchasers now
account for 55 percent of luxury-home deals in the city compared
with 49 percent a year ago.  “Russians are rising in number at the moment,” Bailey
said. “There’s a bit of uncertainty because there’s an election
next year and people are looking to invest money overseas.”  Buyers from  Russia  accounted for 6.3 percent of all
purchases in the 12 months through September, followed by the
United Arab Emirates with 4.7 percent and the U.S. with 3.9
percent. About 3.2 percent of sales were to French buyers, the
highest of any mainland European country.  Homes bought by billionaires in London cost 3,090 pounds a
square foot at the end of June, a 3 percent increase from six
months earlier,  Savills Plc (SVS)  said last week. Prices in Britain’s
most expensive city climbed 38 percent in the five years through
December 2010, the London-based property broker said.  London Riots  Values rose 0.6 percent in September from a month earlier,
the market’s worst performance since prices fell 0.2 percent in
October 2010. At the beginning of August, arson and looting in
the city’s Tottenham district sparked riots in which more than
3,000 crimes were committed in the capital alone.  “In the final weeks of August and first week of September
there was a slowdown in deals being made,” Bailey said. “There
was a slight knock-on from the riots, which delayed a few
purchases.”  Knight Frank  said luxury-home prices will increase by as
much as 12 percent this year, maintaining a forecast the broker
made last month. Values climbed about 10 percent in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 