-- 
Mongolia Sparks Rio Concern With Push to Raise Stake in Record Copper Mine

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 
2011-09-26T20:51:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/mongolia-wants-to-raise-stake-in-oyu-tolgoi-to-50-minister-zorigt-says.html
Ivanhoe Mines Ltd. fell in Toronto
trading after Mongolia said it wanted to boost its stake in one
of the world’s largest undeveloped copper-gold mines two years
after agreeing to cap its stake until 2039.  Ivanhoe, developing the Oyu Tolgoi deposit with  Rio Tinto 
Group, fell C$1.51, or 9.1 percent, to C$15 yesterday at 4 p.m.
in Toronto Stock Exchange trading, after earlier dropping as
much as 21 percent. Rio declined 20.5 pence, or 0.7 percent, to
2,964.5 pence in London.  The government of Mongolia is seeking to boost its stake to
50 percent from 34 percent, Dashdorj Zorigt, Mongolia’s minerals
minister, told reporters at Oyu Tolgoi on Sept. 25. Such an
increase is permitted only after 30 years, according to a
summary of the $10 billion project agreement from London-based
Rio, which said the new proposal may alarm foreign investors.  Mongolia’s attempt to renegotiate the Oyu Tolgoi agreement
follows pressure from lawmakers ahead of an election next year
and highlights risks for overseas investors as countries seek
greater control of raw materials. So-called resource nationalism
is the biggest business risk for global mining companies, Ernst
& Young LLP said last month.  “The future of Ivanhoe’s relationships with the Mongolian
government has become darker,” Ray Goldie, a Toronto-based
analyst at Salman Partners Inc., said yesterday in a note to
clients.  In the “still unlikely event that” Mongolia were to
unilaterally increase its stake in Oyu Tolgoi 16 percentage
points by 2019, the project’s contribution to Ivanhoe’s net-
asset value per share would drop to $19.85 from $23.93, Goldie
said in the note.  Six Years  Ivanhoe expects the government of Mongolia to live up to
its commitments in the 2009 agreement, the company said
yesterday in a statement.  “The investment agreement for the Oyu Tolgoi Project
remains a fair and legally binding contract that deserves and
requires the unqualified support of all parties,” Ivanhoe said.  The project, 66 percent owned by  Ivanhoe Mines , is halfway
through completion and will be one of the world’s five-biggest
copper mines, according to Rio, which controls Oyu Tolgoi’s
management. Ivanhoe, 48.5 percent owned by Rio, spent more than
six years negotiating with Mongolia before reaching an agreement
in October 2009 to develop the site, which is scheduled to begin
commercial production in 2013.  ‘Unstable Environment’  “An unstable environment, where changes to agreements are
forced, leads to investors being very apprehensive,” Cameron
McRae, Rio’s Mongolia country director, said Sept. 24 in the
capital, Ulan Bator. “The investment agreement is a contract.
We’re going to honor it and we expect the government to honor
it.”  A group of 20 Mongolian lawmakers wrote to Prime Minister
Sukhbaatar Batbold on Sept. 7 demanding the Oyu Tolgoi accord be
revised to give the country a 50 percent holding,  China ’s Xinhua
News Agency said Sept. 20. Mongolia will seek to revise the
terms for the project, Finance Minister Sangajav Bayartsogt told
the News.mn portal in an interview published the same day.
Mongolia has appointed chief of the cabinet office Chimed
Khurelbaatar to start talks with the miners, Xinhua News
reported on Sept. 22.  Mongolia may also seek to change the allotment of stakes in
the Tavan Tolgoi coal deposit to investors including  Peabody
Energy Corp. (BTU) , the largest U.S. coal producer. The potential
ownership changes at the country’s two biggest mineral
developments come ahead of parliamentary elections next year.  Global Demand  Oyu Tolgoi may have average annual output of 450,000 tons
of copper and 330,000 ounces of gold, Rio said. World demand for
copper will grow 40 percent to 27 million tons by 2020,
according to a Sept. 8 Rio presentation.  Rio is facing similar government moves in Mozambique and
 Guinea , where the company owns the proposed $10 billion Simandou
iron ore project in a joint venture with Aluminum Corp. of
China. Lawmakers in Guinea on Sept. 9 adopted a mining code that
will hand the nation 35 percent of local commodity companies.  “Big companies develop big projects, have  capital costs  in
the billions,”  Gavin Wendt , founder and director of Mine Life
Pty in Sydney, said by phone. “They don’t want to invest
billions and find out they’re effectively having a big chunk of
the project taken away.”  Rising demand led by China, the largest copper user,
coupled with a global supply deficit pushed the price to a
record $10,190 a ton on the  London  Metal Exchange in February.
The three-month contract for the metal used to make pipes and
wires traded at $7,266 a ton yesterday in London.  Foreign Investment  President Tsakhia Elbegdorj, a former journalist who led
the peaceful revolution that ended more than 65 years of
communist rule in Mongolia in 1990, said in June he’s concerned
about how to “manage” the surge of foreign investment and
ensure the windfall spreads among the nation’s citizens.  Oyu Tolgoi will boost the country’s gross domestic product
by 30 percent by 2020, when it reaches full production,  Andrew Harding , chief executive officer of Rio Tinto’s copper unit,
said at a Sept 24. briefing.  Harding also said last week that the mine’s commercial
operation could be delayed if uncertainty over power supplies
for the project wasn’t resolved in the coming months.  Ivanhoe said in its statement yesterday it “remains
confident” that Mongolia and China will reach agreement on
electricity supply for Oyu Tolgoi in time to allow metals
production to begin on schedule.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in  Vancouver  at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at   rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 