-- 
U.S. Afghan Policy Shows ‘Confusion’: Pakistan

-- B y   A n u r a g   J o s h i
-- 
2011-09-25T19:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/pakistan-says-u-s-policy-in-afghanistan-shows-confusion-disarray-.html
Pakistan’s Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani  said U.S. policy on Afghanistan shows a “confusion
and policy disarray” and the nations need to coordinate action
to combat terrorism.  Recent attacks in the Afghan capital, Kabul, including on
the U.S. embassy were “disquieting” and Pakistan condemns such
incidents, Gilani said in a statement released by the Foreign
Ministry in Islamabad on Sept. 24.  “There is concern over the deterioration of the security
situation in Afghanistan,” Gilani said. “There is the need for
close policy coordination” between the U.S., Afghanistan and
Pakistan.  U.S. and Afghan officials say the Haqqani group based in
Pakistan and eastern Afghanistan, backed by Pakistan’s main
military intelligence agency, carried out high-profile attacks
in Kabul, including a Sept. 13 assault that hit the U.S. embassy
with rocket-propelled grenades.  “We strongly reject assertions of complicity with the
Haqqanis or of proxy war,” Gilani said in his statement. The
“blame-game is self-defeating.”  Admiral Mike Mullen, the chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs
of Staff, told the Senate Armed Services Committee last week
that Haqqani network operatives, with support from  Pakistan ’s
Inter-Services Intelligence agency, “planned and conducted”
the embassy assault.  ‘Lose an Ally’  Pakistan condemns the allegations of links between the
Haqqani group and Pakistan’s military intelligence agency,
Foreign Minister Hina Rabbani Khar, said on Sept. 23.  “This is not in the spirit of partnership,” Khar told the
GEO television channel. “We have seriously conveyed to them
that you could lose an ally. You can’t afford to alienate
Pakistani people.”  Pakistan’s national interests will guide policy, Gilani
said in his statement. The country’s sacrifices in the war
against terrorism are “unquestionable,” he added.  Pakistan has emphasized the need for deeper engagement in
its talks with the U.S., the prime minister said.  “This can only take place on the basis of mutual
respect,” Gilani said. “Let’s avoid mutual recrimination and
recommit ourselves to working together for eliminating terrorism
and for reconciliation and peace in  Afghanistan .”  Rabbani Assassination  Burhanuddin Rabbani, chairman of the Afghan government’s
High Peace Council, was assassinated on Sept. 20 in Kabul. The
killing came after secret contacts between the council and the
Quetta Shura, the main leadership committee of the Taliban,
Rahmatullah Wahidyar, a council member who instigated talks,
said on Sept. 23.  Wahidyar’s accusing of the Quetta Shura shifted attention
from the Haqqani group.  “Pakistan cannot be held responsible for the security of
U.S., NATO, ISAF forces in Afghanistan,” Gilani said.  The 48-nation coalition led by the U.S. and the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization is counting on improvements in
security forces and governing capability to turn over lead
responsibility to the Afghans by the end of 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anurag Joshi in Mumbai at 
 ajoshi53@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  