-- 
Palm Oil Seen Dropping to One-Year Low as Supplies Increase, Mistry Says

-- B y   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 
2011-09-25T07:19:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/palm-oil-seen-dropping-to-one-year-low-as-supplies-increase-mistry-says.html
Palm oil  may tumble to as low as
2,800 ringgit ($880) a metric ton in the next five to eight
weeks, the lowest level in almost a year, as output jumps in
 Malaysia  and  Indonesia , the largest growers, according to Dorab Mistry, director of Godrej International Ltd.  Futures in Malaysia will trade between 2,800 ringgit and
3,100 ringgit a ton until mid-November, Mistry said in remarks
prepared for the Globoil conference in Mumbai today. The
commodity, which has lost 21 percent this year, last traded at
less than 2,800 ringgit in October 2010.  Lower palm oil prices may curb world food prices that the
 United Nations  predicts will stay at historically high levels
this year and ease pressure on central banks to raise  interest
rates . Commodities fell to a nine-month low on Sept. 23 on
deepening concern that governments are running out of tools to
avert a global recession, eroding demand for raw-materials.  “This is going to be a period of great volatility, first
down and then gradually up,” said Mistry, who’s traded the oil
used in food and fuels for more than three decades. “You will
need strong nerves to trade these markets.”  Futures may recover from December and rally to as high as
4,000 ringgit a ton as consumption rises among developing
nations including China and India, he said, maintaining a
forecast made first on July 28. The December-delivery contract
closed at 2,992 ringgit in  Kuala Lumpur  on Sept. 23.  Peak Production  Palm oil production in Malaysia will be at a peak this
month and in October, expanding stockpiles, Mistry said. Output
may gain to 19 million tons this year in Malaysia, while it may
total 25.5 million tons in Indonesia, the largest producer, said
Mistry, sticking to a forecasts made in July.  In Malaysia, production totaled 12 million tons in the
January-August period, 8.2 percent more than a year earlier,
while shipments gained 3.8 percent to 11.3 million tons,
according to the nation’s palm oil board.  Sime Darby Bhd. (SIME) , the world’s biggest publicly listed palm-
oil producer, expects harvests from plantations in Malaysia and
Indonesia to climb in the year to June as yields improve, Group
Chief Executive Officer Mohd Bakke Salleh said on Sept. 21.
Futures may hold at 3,000 ringgit a ton until the yearend
because of their “significant discount” to other cooking oils
and demand from  India  ahead of the Diwali festival, he said.  The price may plunge 16 percent to as low as 2,525 ringgit
a ton by March if Brent crude oil extends its decline to $87 a
barrel, James Fry, chairman of LMC International Ltd. told the
conference yesterday. Brent for November delivery fell 1.4
percent to $103.97 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange on Sept. 23.  ‘Depress’  A plan by Indonesia to lower the tax on refined palm oil
products may boost its exports, swelling inventory in Malaysia,
Fry said. That may “depress” prices, he said.  Indonesia will levy a maximum tax of 10 percent on refined,
bleached and deodorized palm oil from Oct. 1, while crude palm
oil will be taxed at a maximum of 22.5 percent, according to a
Finance Ministry Decree signed Aug. 15.  The growth in global vegetable oil supplies will outpace
the increase in demand for the first time in three years in
2011, Mistry said. Production will expand by 9 million tons,
exceeding the 6.5 million tons growth in demand, he said.  “It is also seen that world stocks will rise
significantly,” Mistry said. “This rise in stocks will
materialize mainly in the second half of the year. That is when
palm oil production will be at its highest and Russian and
Ukrainian sunflower seed crush will be strong.”  Flat Output  Palm oil output in Malaysia may remain flat next year or
increase marginally after a bumper harvest this year, while
production growth in Indonesia will be less than a normal year,
Mistry said.  Soybean oil  will remain “steady” around $1,200 and $1,250
a ton free-on-board basis for the next several months due to
biodiesel mandates in Brazil and  Argentina , Mistry said. Still,
the loss of export demand for soybean oil from so-called price-
sensitive countries will continue given its large premium over
palm oil, he said.  Soybean oil futures in  Chicago  may rally from December as
Brazil and Argentina near the end of their crushing season,
Mistry said. Prices may gain to 65 cents a pound to 70 cents a
pound by April from 52.64 cents on Sept. 23, he said.  “There will be several short periods between now and the
middle of 2012 when markets will be extremely volatile,” Mistry
said. “So much so that we shall even try to forget the
fundamentals and look only at the performance of financial
markets and equities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  