-- 
PCCW Says Spin-Off of Its Telecom Assets Into Trust May Raise $1.3 Billion

-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-09-26T08:52:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/pccw-says-spin-off-may-raise-about-1-3b.html
PCCW Ltd. (8) , Hong Kong’s biggest
phone company, said it may raise more than HK$10 billion ($1.3
billion) from the proposed listing of its telecommunications
business trust to repay debt and fund investments.  PCCW may sell 36.7 percent of the units in HKT Trust in an
initial public offering to raise the money, and the total may be
boosted by HK$1.6 billion if the over-allotment option is
exercised, it said in a statement yesterday. The planned spinoff
is “subject to market conditions,” PCCW said.  Billionaire Chairman  Richard Li  expects to lure investors
to Hong Kong’s first business trust by offering to pay out a
higher proportion of the income from PCCW’s businesses including
fixed-line and broadband Internet. PCCW’s announcement comes
amid a rout in global stock markets that has prompted companies
including Sany Heavy Industry Co. to delay share sales.  “Given the state of the markets, there is a risk that the
listing may not go ahead as planned,” said Linus Yip, chief
strategist at First Shanghai Securities in  Hong Kong . “A lot of
investors have factored in a successful spinoff into PCCW’s
share price.”  PCCW fell 6 percent, the biggest drop since Aug. 5, to
close at HK$3.08 in Hong Kong. The stock has declined 10 percent
this year, compared with the 24 percent drop for the city’s
benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  The trust listing will only proceed if the pricing of the
offer is in the interests of PCCW, the company said. Anita Choi,
a spokeswoman at the carrier, declined to elaborate.  Dividend Payouts  PCCW’s fund-raising target is lower than an estimate by
Macquarie Group Ltd. in June, when the investment bank said that
the proposed trust listing may raise as much as HK$13.5 billion.  PCCW, which aims to complete the spinoff next quarter,
estimates its telecommunications trust will have a minimum
market capitalization of HK$28.6 billion, according to the
statement. The trust will be able to distribute a minimum of
HK$2.57 billion to investors next year, higher than the at least
HK$1.36 billion it is forecast to make in profit, it said.  A trust will be able to pay out a larger proportion of its
income as dividends than a company structure, Li said in May.  PCCW, which posted a profit of HK$1.93 billion in 2010,
paid HK$1.27 billion in dividends to shareholders last year,
according to its annual report.  Shareholders’ Meeting   The company will hold a shareholders’ meeting on Oct. 12 to
ratify the trust spinoff plan, it said.  Hong Kong moved to permit business trusts, a structure that
allows investors to receive dividends from operating cash flow,
after  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13)  picked  Singapore  for the $5.5
billion initial public offering of a trust backed by its port
assets.  PCCW will place its assets including divisions that operate
fixed-line, broadband Internet and mobile-phone services in the
business trust, it said. After the spinoff, PCCW will retain
operations including pay-television and computer services.  PCCW will use HK$7.8 billion of the proceeds from the trust
spinoff to repay debt, while the remainder may be re-invested,
it said. The company will retain at least 55 percent ownership
of the business trust after the spinoff, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  