-- 
Philippines May Hold Interest Rates Rest of Year, Tetangco Says

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 
2011-09-26T00:53:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/philippines-may-maintain-rates-for-rest-of-2011-tetangco-says.html
The Philippine central bank will
probably refrain from changing interest rates for the rest of
2011 even as government spending may boost economic growth in
the second half, Governor Amando Tetangco said.  Inflationary pressures are easing and consumer-price gains
this month will be “somewhat lower” compared with the bank’s
forecast for August, Tetangco said in an interview in Washington
on Sept. 24 after attending the  International Monetary Fund  and
World Bank meetings. The Philippine monetary authority had
forecast inflation of 3.9 percent to 4.8 percent last month,
using 2000 as the base year.  Europe ’s worsening debt crisis and a faltering U.S.
recovery have raised the danger to growth in  Asia , prompting
central banks from  South Korea  to  Indonesia  to refrain from
 interest-rate  increases this month.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas 
held its benchmark interest rate at 4.5 percent on Sept. 8 after
increasing it twice earlier this year.  “Inflation is not going to accelerate,” Tetangco said.
“There is a possibility and we are looking at that for the rest
of the year” to keep rates on hold, he said.  The peso has fallen more than 3 percent this month, heading
for its worst monthly loss since May 2010, as the  Federal
Reserve  said risks to the  U.S. economy  had increased and
European leaders fail to resolve the region’s debt crisis that
threatens to force  Greece  to default.  Inflation eased for a second month in August, with consumer
prices increasing 4.7 percent from a year earlier, according to
data from the  National Statistics Office  using 2006 as a base
year. Inflation was 4.3 percent using 2000 as a base year.  ‘Need to Change’  “In 2012, the forecast is that inflation is going to ease
from 2011,” Tetangco said. “That gives us the flexibility for
2012 on the monetary-policy side. We will continue to monitor
the situation and see if there are changes in the assessment of
the operating environment, and if there is a need to change the
stance of monetary policy.”  President  Benigno Aquino  directed his economic team to
monitor developments in the global economy and prepare measures
to shield the nation from a downturn, spokeswoman Abigail Valte
said Sept. 24.  The central bank’s “role will be to maintain stable
monetary and banking-system conditions,” Tetangco said. “The
proper response there is probably not monetary policy but fiscal
policy, and the plan of the government to increase spending in
the second half is a move in the right direction.”  The  Philippines  may accelerate some spending set for 2012
to this year to help boost the economy, Budget Secretary Butch Abad said last month.  Government spending  in the first eight
months of the year fell 8.1 percent from a year earlier.  Slowing Growth  Growth in the Philippines’ $200 billion economy slowed for
a fourth straight quarter in the three months through June, to
3.4 percent from a year earlier compared with 4.6 percent in the
first quarter. The economy may grow between 5 percent and 6
percent this year, Tetangco said.  The Philippine central bank may ask lenders to set aside
more capital to cover non-deliverable currency forwards,
Tetangco said. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets at
a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in
dollars and are favored by many investors because funds don’t
have to be deposited and registered locally.  “The facility is allowed for hedging legitimate
transactions, so if the facility is used for this purpose, we
have no issue with that,” he said. “Unfortunately, not all NDF
transactions have been for that purpose. What we have found out
is that the bulk of these NDFs are for speculative purposes. We
don’t want that.”  Emerging-market policy makers have tightened rules on
capital flows after bond yields and economic growth rates that
are higher than in developed nations lured funds.  “Banks have to remember that transactions in this area
carry risks and they should be able to absorb if there is a
reversal, if the risk materializes,” Tetangco said. “That’s
why we are saying they have to put up additional capital for
transactions of this nature.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in  Washington  at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  