-- 
World Finance Chiefs’ Patience Ebbing as Pimco Sees Slump

-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y ,   R i c h   M i l l e r   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-09-26T17:39:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/pimco-s-el-erian-sees-rich-economies-stalling-amid-new-european-recession.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.,
which runs the world’s biggest bond fund, is forecasting that
advanced economies will stall over the next year as  Europe 
slides into a recession, underscoring mounting investor concern
about the global economic outlook.  There will be little-to-no economic growth in industrial
nations in the coming 12 months as Europe’s economy shrinks by 1
percent to 2 percent and the U.S. stagnates, said Mohamed El- Erian, chief executive officer of Newport Beach, California-
based Pimco. That will leave worldwide expansion at about 2.5
percent, less than the 4 percent forecast by the  International
Monetary Fund  this year and next.  Such gloomy sentiment dominated weekend talks of policy
makers, investors and bankers in Washington, where the IMF and
 World Bank  held their annual meetings. The  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  suffered its biggest loss since 2008 last week as the
 Federal Reserve  said risks to the  U.S. economy  had increased and
Europe’s debt crisis went unresolved.  “For the next 12 months, the global economy will slow
materially with advanced economies struggling to grow much above
zero,” El-Erian said in a Sept. 24 interview in Washington.
“Emerging economies will maintain faster growth, albeit not as
high as the last 12 months.”  Worst Experience  Former U.S. Treasury Secretary Lawrence Summers said he has
been to 20 years of IMF gatherings, and “there’s not been a
prior meeting at which matters have had more gravity and at
which I’ve been more concerned about the future of the global
economy.”  Stocks rose today, with major European bourses rebounding
from last week’s declines. Ten-year U.S. Treasury note yields
increased six basis points to 1.90 percent at 1:30 p.m. in  New
York , rising from near a record low. The euro dropped to a
decade low against the yen.  Finance ministers and central bankers urged European
officials to intensify efforts to contain their 18-month debt
crisis as Greece teetered on the edge of default. U.S. Treasury
Secretary Timothy F. Geithner called on governments to unite
with the  European Central Bank  to beef-up the capacity of their
440 billion-euro ($594 billion) bailout fund, warning that
failure to act threatened “cascading default, bank runs and
catastrophic risk.”  Trillion Euros  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  estimated 1 trillion
euros may have to be deployed. U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
George Osborne said a solution is needed by the time that Group
of 20 leaders meet in Cannes, France, on Nov. 3-4.  “Patience is running out in the international community,”
Osborne said. “The euro zone has six weeks to resolve this
political crisis.”  Whether “the markets will accept the luxury of six weeks
grace remains to be seen,” said  Jim O’Neill , chairman of
Goldman Sachs Asset Management in  London . “In the interim,
policy makers will have to feed markets with hope as to what
might arrive in November and then not disappoint.”  Reports this week may reinforce the sense of weakness, with
economists predicting that U.S. consumer spending slowed in
August and confidence among European households and businesses
fell to its lowest since February 2010.  Sluggish Growth  Memphis, Tennessee-based  FedEx Corp. (FDX) , operator of the
world’s biggest cargo airline, cut its full-year profit forecast
last week amid declining demand in the U.S. and Asia. CEO Fred Smith nevertheless said he expects sluggish economic growth
rather than a recession.  Billionaire investor George Soros said “something needs to
be done” to safeguard Europe’s banks because Greece may be
unable to avoid default. The IMF said last week that the turmoil
has generated as much as 300 billion euros in credit risk for
the region’s banks and advocated capital injections.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said euro-region leaders
must erect a firewall around Greece to avert a cascade of market
attacks on other European states that would risk breaking up the
currency area. “We have to be in a position to react,” Merkel
said late yesterday on ARD television. “We have to be able to
put up a barrier.”  More Firepower  Reluctant to boost the actual size of the rescue fund for
fear of antagonizing taxpayers, European policy makers hinted
they may soon heed Geithner’s advice and use leverage to
increase its firepower. They said parliaments must first ratify
a July plan to broaden its remit to include bond-buying and
aiding banks. German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  and
European Financial Stability Fund CEO Klaus Regling played down
speculation the ECB would be needed to increase the fund’s heft.  “Wait a few more days,” said Regling, when asked for
details.  One option is for the facility to provide guarantees to
investors in government debt so it will take the first losses in
the event of a default, said David Mackie, chief European
economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in London  Finance officials will also discuss this week speeding
implementation of a permanent rescue plan by a year to next
July, according to a working paper obtained by Bloomberg News.
ECB Governing Council members Ewald Nowotny and Luc Coene
signaled in interviews in  Washington  that the central bank may
say next week it will begin offering banks unlimited liquidity
for as long as a year. Policy makers will also debate restarting
their covered-bond purchases, a central bank official said.  Greek Pledge  Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said his country
“wants to make it and will make it” and that it will always be
a member of the euro area. Prime Minister George Papandreou said
yesterday that the EU must take “strategic decisions” and that
the end of the global economic crisis “appears even more
distant.”  German Deputy Finance Minister  Joerg Asmussen  said
officials won’t be in a position to discuss the next tranche of
aid for  Greece  when they meet on Oct. 3 because a report by
advisors has been delayed.  While the IMF vowed to “strongly support” Europe,
Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  warned its $384 billion war
chest may not be enough to meet all aid requests if the world
economy worsens. The current lending capacity “looks
comfortable today but pales in comparison with the potential
financing needs of vulnerable countries and crisis bystanders,”
she said.  The world economy will find some support from emerging
markets, which will grow 4.5 percent to 5 percent over the next
12 months, and Japan’s 1.5 percent expansion, El-Erian said.  ‘New Normal’  El-Erian popularized the “new normal” term to describe
how growth patterns in the world economy changed after the worst
recession since the Great Depression. The firm under-performed
most of its bond mutual fund peers this year after a February
decision to eliminate U.S. Treasuries from its Total Return Fund
backfired as the securities rallied.  JPMorgan Chase Chief Economist Bruce Kasman said in
Washington that Greece is already insolvent and headed toward a
depression that will roil the euro area. His team revised their
forecasts last week to show the region entering a recession in
the next quarter and the ECB cutting its key  interest rate  on
Oct. 6 to 1 percent from 1.5 percent.  “I fear very much that the situation will deteriorate
further before it improves,”  Axel Weber , the former president
of the Bundesbank, said in Washington yesterday. “We will see
much more drastic action” by policy makers if the situation in
financial markets gets worse.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in Washington at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in Washington at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;
Rich Miller in Washington at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  