-- 
Putin Faces ‘Unpopular’ Decisions to Overhaul Russia’s Oil-Reliant Economy

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r ,   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 
2011-09-26T19:04:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/putin-must-overhaul-russia-s-economy-or-risk-brezhnev-style-stagnation.html
Vladimir Putin  will face obstacles
that include a growing budget deficit, continued dependence on
oil exports and the potential for social discontent as he
reclaims Russia’s presidency next year, according to former
government officials.  Putin, 58, said Sept. 24 he’ll seek to return to the
presidency in March elections, pushing aside his protégé,  Dmitry Medvedev , who replaced him for four years because of a
constitutional ban on three consecutive terms. Medvedev may take
the role of prime minister, a move that Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin, an advocate of budget discipline, said would prompt him
to quit.  Putin would take the country’s job just as the global
slowdown threatens to throttle demand for oil, the lifeblood of
the Russian economy. The risk is that Putin, an officer in the
Soviet-era KGB who says economic-policy makers must avoid
“liberal experiments,” will struggle to combat challenges that
threaten the country’s long-term growth prospects, said former
Economy Minister Yevgeny Yasin.  Economic changes “will entail political risks, unpopular
decisions, and I’m afraid that will stop Putin,” Yasin, who was
minister between 1994 and 1997 and is now the director of the
Higher School of Economics in Moscow, said yesterday by phone.
“ Russia  has yet to reform many institutions which are the
legacy of the Soviet era.”  Concern over the global economy and  Europe ’s sovereign-debt
crisis has roiled markets in Russia, which saw its economy
contract 7.8 percent in 2009, its worst recession on record.
Russia is vulnerable to swings in  oil prices  and will have to
cut spending, including pensions, to bring its budget into line
and its dependency on commodity exports, the  International
Monetary Fund  said on Sept. 21.  Oil Price Falling  The world’s largest energy exporter saw the price of its
main export, Urals crude oil, fall more than 7 percent last week
to $104.93 a barrel, $10 below the level required to balance the
budget.  Speculation over who would run for president pushed Russian
equities evaluations to the lowest in emerging markets. The
Micex index slipped 12 percent last week, dropping valuations on
the measure’s 30 shares to an average 4.7 times of member
companies estimated earnings, the cheapest among 23 emerging
markets tracked by Bloomberg.  The ruble has slumped 10 percent against the dollar in
September and is poised for its worst month since January 2009,
according to Micex prices compiled by Bloomberg. The currency
was unchanged at 32.0475 per dollar late on Sept. 23 in Moscow,
the lowest level since Aug. 17.  Increased Order  Putin’s first two terms as president were marked by order
and increased state ownership of the country’s biggest
companies. Buoyed by a booming global economy, Russia averaged
7 percent growth a year during Putin’s 2000-2008 presidency.  Mikhail Kasyanov , a prime minister under Putin until he was
fired in 2004 and now an opposition figure, predicts Russia may
see its reserves dry up and record a budget deficit of as much
as 5 percent of economic output if crude prices fall by a third
from their current levels. Putin said on Sept. 21 that there
will be no budget shortfall this year.  “If the price of oil falls to $70, that means the ruble
will sink, the price of food and medicine will go up 30 percent
as most are imported, and there will be a wave of social
discontent,” Kasyanov said by phone.  While Putin said in April that Russia must avoid liberal
“experiments” to ensure stable economic growth, he said at a
weekend party congress that tough decisions lay ahead.  ‘Bitter Medicine’  “The task of the government is not only to pour honey into
a cup, but sometimes to give bitter medicine,” he said. “This
should always be done openly and honestly, and the overwhelming
majority of people will understand the government.”  Still, the prospect of Putin serving two more six-year
terms, which would give him 24 years at the helm, may increase
complaints from his critics that the system is authoritarian and
make him more vulnerable to unrest.  The ruling  United Russia  party has seen its support fall to
around 40 percent from the two-thirds of the vote it won in
2007. Billionaire Mikhail Prokhorov quit as leader of the pro-
business party, Pravoye Delo, last week after the Kremlin
withdrew support for his bid to get the party into the lower
house of parliament, where 87 percent of seats are held by pro-
government forces.  Prokhorov, who had committed $80 million of his money for
campaigning in the December elections, said Aug. 26 that Russia
is becoming a “farce and parody of the  Soviet Union ,” stifled
by bureaucracy and authoritarian rule. On Sept. 25, Medvedev
expelled him from a commission on economic modernization.  Platform for Initiatives  The commission, made up of government ministers and top
business men, is Medvedev’s platform to discuss new initiatives
to help develop the Russian economy. Sitting on such commissions
is important for Russian businessmen because it gives them
access to political leaders and knowledge of economic decisions
being made.  Medvedev, 46, a former corporate lawyer from Putin’s
hometown of  St. Petersburg , made the rule of law, the fight
against corruption and reversing Putin’s policy of increased
state ownership to attract greater foreign investment the
cornerstones of his time in office.  “Even though everybody knew that Putin de facto led the
country during Medvedev’s presidency, Medvedev was associated
with more liberalism and more investor-friendly rhetoric,” said
Sergey Dergachev, who helps manage $8.5 billion in emerging-
market debt at Union Investment in  Frankfurt . “Whether Putin
will follow these issues is to be seen.”  Capital Flight  Russia, which had $31.2 billion in capital flight in the
first half of the year, could see that rise to $100 billion and
suffer a sharp increase in the brain drain as educated Russians
seek to emigrate, said  Boris Nemtsov , an opposition leader and a
former deputy prime minister under President  Boris Yeltsin .  Russians are becoming increasingly frustrated, said
Nemtsov. “When people see they cannot replace the government
peacefully through elections, they come out to the streets.”  The Russian prime minister made his announcement at a
packed congress of his ruling United Russia party, which former
Soviet leader  Mikhail Gorbachev  earlier this year said reminded
him of the “Communist Party in its worst years.”  Gorbachev was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1990 for
helping end the  Cold War  and introduced a policy of
“glasnost,” or openness. In July he urged Putin not to run for
president, saying if he did so it “will lead to a situation
like in  Africa  where leaders sit and rule for 20 or 30 years.”  Putin said his most important priority was the need to show
ordinary Russians he was on their side.  “Taxes for people with high incomes, for the rich -- and
we have more and more of these people -- should be higher than
for the average class, the majority of citizens,” he told the
United Russia party in Moscow on Sept. 24 where he received a
standing ovation. Higher taxes for the wealthy should fall
“primarily on consumption, real estate and property,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  