-- 
QPR Ties 1-1 Against Aston Villa in Premier League on Injury-Time Own Goal

-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 
2011-09-25T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/qpr-ties-1-1-against-aston-villa-in-premier-league-on-injury-time-own-goal.html
Queens Park Rangers rescued a draw
against  Aston Villa  in English soccer’s Premier League yesterday
on an own goal from Richard Dunne deep into injury time.  QPR only had 10 men on the field when it leveled, with
Armand Traore sent off in the 90th minute after receiving a
second yellow card. Barry Bannan had given Villa a 58th-minute
lead at Loftus Road with a penalty kick.  Aston Villa, unbeaten through six matches, remains in
eighth spot with QPR moving up to ninth, both with eight points.  QPR had most of the possession in the first half, but a
crowd including England coach  Fabio Capello  and U.K. Prime
Minister David Cameron saw few shots on target.  Adel Taarabt came close for the home team after only five
minutes with a 30-yard shot that crashed against a post, while
close-range efforts from  Shaun Wright-Phillips  and Taarabt were
blocked in the 14th minute.  Striker Jay Bothroyd was then off target with a header two
minutes later.  Villa didn’t test goalkeeper Paddy Kenny until just before
halftime. Bannan curled a 20-yard free kick toward the corner of
the net, which Kenny stopped with a diving save.  The visitors took the lead on 58 minutes, Bannan beating
Kenny from the spot after Traore was adjudged to have pulled
Gabriel Agbonlahor’s shirt. Traore was given his first yellow
card by the referee.  Wright-Phillips was denied a goal for QPR by a diving stop
from Shay Given after 68 minutes, but with few other clear
chances Villa appeared to be heading for a win.  Late Challenge  Traore was dismissed after a late challenge on substitute
Marc Albrighton just before the match headed into injury time.  With little more than a minute of the additional five
remaining, the ball deflected off Dunne’s knees and into the net
as the home team pushed for a goal.  Two days ago, first-place  Manchester United  was held to a
1-1 draw at Stoke City and is now tied on 16 points with
 Manchester City , a 2-0 winner against Everton.  Arsenal defeated Bolton 3-0, Chelsea beat Swansea 4-1,
Liverpool won 2-1 against Wolverhampton Wanderers, while
Tottenham beat Wigan 2-1. Newcastle defeated Blackburn 3-1, and
the game between West Bromwich Albion and Fulham ended 0-0.
Tonight, Norwich hosts Sunderland.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in  London  at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 