-- 
Trading Room Turns Theater in 9/11 Production ‘Decade’: Review

-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 
2011-09-25T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/trading-room-turns-theater-in-9-11-production-decade-review.html
Commodity Quay, near Tower Bridge,
once housed a trading room.  Now that space -- previously shared by the  London  Commodity
Exchange and the International Petroleum Exchange -- has been
turned into a temporary theater for Rupert Goold’s latest show.
The “Enron” director presents “ Decade ,” a look back at the
10 years since terrorists crashed hijacked planes into the World
Trade Center on Sept. 11, 2001.  The production is a patchwork of 19 mini-plays about people
whose lives were somehow touched by 9/11. As in “Enron,”
dialogue is punctuated with choreography, bursts of light, and
loud music, keeping you on your toes.  At the entrance to the venue, would-be U.S. border guards
screen visitors stepping through a bleeping metal detector. They
ask: Ever come across people with extreme religious views? Ever
been to the  Middle East ? Are you political? You’re transported
to the months of post-9/11, homeland-security hysteria.  Aproned staff then lead you cheerily down a wide staircase
to the ex-trading floor, which now looks like the towers’ top-
floor Windows of the World restaurant, with blow-up views of
 Manhattan  on either side, and neat round tables.  As the show opens, a barefoot man in a gray robe and Muslim
cap appears on the oval middle stage, apparently a restaurant
guest. Asked which party he’s with, he grins and shakes his
head. He then throws a paper plane made with the menu --
sparking an apocalyptic sequence symbolizing the attacks.
Deafening bangs, flashing lights, and desperate office workers
on the windowed mezzanine recreate the terror.  Guilt, Grief  The succeeding playlets tell stories, true or imagined, of
surviving New Yorkers. Some escaped death, such as the finance
employee based in the towers who took the day off and now lives
with guilt and grief.  Others are once removed from the tragedy: They’re widows of
men who perished, and they meet every year, on the day, to
commemorate. Still others have an incidental connection, such as
the Arab grocer who suddenly finds himself resented by regulars,
his shop window shattered by a flying brick.  The problem with “Decade” is that not all of the playlets
rise to the subject matter and to Goold’s originality. In some
cases, the link with 9/11 is tenuous, as when a medical team
interrupts an abortion to watch TV footage of the attacks.  Osama’s Shadow  The writing sometimes seems banal, and hasty, judging by
the repeated references to  Osama Bin Laden ’s killing by U.S.
forces, which happened only four months ago. When a gifted
wordsmith like Simon Schama provides a text for the show
evaluating how historic the attacks will be, the contrast is
such that you sit up and listen.  Occasionally, a clever piece does come along to compensate.
A 9/11 souvenir-stall vendor gets close to the weeping women
going on the commemorative tour, and reports that he scores, on
average, with two out of 10 of them.  What makes the show special, despite the uneven narratives,
is Goold’s staging style and pacing. Though “Decade” could
lose some of its components without anybody noticing, it adds up
to a compelling night out. Rating: ***.  “Decade” is at Commodity Quay, St. Katharine Docks, 1
East Smithfield, London E1W 1AZ. Information:
 http://www.decadeheadlong.com ,  http://www.skdocks.co.uk .  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  
To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in London at 
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at  mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  or
. 