-- 
Real Madrid Maneuvers to Block Hostile Takeover Approaches For Soccer Club

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-09-25T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/real-madrid-maneuvers-to-block-hostile-takeover-approaches-for-club.html
Real Madrid President  Florentino Perez  plans to change the member-owned team’s statutes to
prevent a hostile takeover after buyouts in the English Premier
League and other championships.  Perez told the club’s annual general meeting yesterday he
was concerned a wealthy investor could try and ally with some
members to buy the nine-time European champion, whose squad
includes  Cristiano Ronaldo , the most-expensive soccer player.  Foreign investors such as the U.S.’s Glazer family, who
bought  Manchester United  for 790 million pounds ($1.2 billion)
in 2005, have acquired clubs in the English Premier League over
the last decade. The Qatar Investment Authority agreed to take
control of Paris Saint-Germain in May.  “A rich man could come along like in  England  or  France  and
with the support of some members take over the club,” Perez
said. “That’s a concern, of course, and we intend to change the
statutes to make sure that doesn’t happen.”  Real remains the biggest team by sales in any sport after
revenue climbed 8.6 percent to 480 million euros ($646 million)
in the year to June 30, according to Perez. Real has led
Deloitte LLP’s list of biggest soccer teams by sales since
overtaking Manchester United in 2005.  The club’s revenue has increased an average 14 percent
every year since 2000, Perez said. Like archrival Barcelona,
Real Madrid is owned by its members who vote in its president
and board of directors every four years. Real has about 90,000
members.  Members yesterday approved a plan to remodel Real’s
Santiago Bernabeu stadium by developing the façade on the Paseo
de la Castellana --  Madrid ’s main thoroughfare -- for retail
use, and changing the exterior’s design.  The planning of the work will take a year and the cost
wasn’t disclosed. An artist’s impression of the redesign shows
the entire exterior lit up with neon lights.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid  at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  