-- 
Record Dividends Lure Morgan Stanley to Asia as Stock Losses Rival Europe

-- B y   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n
-- 
2011-09-26T08:36:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/record-dividends-lure-morgan-stanley-to-asia-as-equities-drop.html
Investors are getting paid more
than ever to hold Asian stocks compared with the rest of the
world as shares in the region fall almost as much as those in
 Germany  and  France .  Equity declines, including last week’s 11 percent drop in
the MSCI China Index, have pushed up dividend yields as much as
37 percent on  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 and 86 percent for the
Chinese gauge, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
helped send the MSCI Asia Pacific Index’s payout to 3.2 percent,
exceeding the MSCI All-Country World Index by the most since at
least 1995, the data show.  Asian profits may rise 32 percent in the next two years,
faster than the rest of the world, helping fund dividends and
providing a margin of safety for investors betting the stocks
will rebound. While bears say the region will prove just as
risky as  Europe  and the U.S. should growth stall, Morgan Stanley
is recommending companies that return cash to owners at a higher
rate than U.S. Treasury bonds.  “It’s a sign of bearish sentiment, but I see it as a
bullish signal for the future,” said Arnout Van Rijn, the chief
investment officer for Robeco Groep NV’s  Hong Kong  division, in
a telephone interview Sept. 19. The company oversees about $200
billion globally. “As investors realize that the dividends of
Asian companies are here to stay, then they’ll probably flock
back to the equity market.”  Debt Crisis  Yields are increasing in  Asia  as shares plunge on concern
that Europe’s debt crisis, U.S. unemployment and higher  interest
rates  in China will slow economic growth. The MSCI Asia Pacific
Index slipped 7.1 percent to 111.73 last week, bringing its loss
in 2011 to 19 percent amid concern that policy makers are
running out of tools to avert a global recession. That compares
with a 25 percent plunge in Germany’s  DAX Index (DAX)  and a 27 percent
decline in the CAC-40 Index of French equities.  Asian stocks tumbled today, sending the MSCI Asia Pacific
Index down 2.5 percent as of 4:30 p.m. in Hong Kong. Global
stocks entered a  bear market  on Sept. 22 when the MSCI All-
Country Index slid 4.5 percent, bringing its decline since May 2
to 22 percent. Benchmark gauges in at least 32 markets,
including Hong Kong and Australia, have declined 20 percent or
more, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The yield on the Asia stock index surpassed the MSCI All-
Country World Index in October 2010 as equities tumbled, while
companies including Beijing-based  China Petroleum & Chemical
Corp. (386) , the region’s biggest refiner, boosted payouts. Over the
last 15 years, dividends on the Asia gauge were higher only in
2008 and early 2009.  Sign of Stability  Executives are paying bigger dividends to show investors
their companies are stable, said  Jonathan Garner , Morgan
Stanley’s chief emerging-market and Asia strategist. Income in
the MSCI Asia Pacific Index may rise 32 percent in the next two
years, based on analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares with forecast profit growth of 22 percent for the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index and 24 percent for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index through 2013.  “In  Taiwan , there has been a change in the attitude toward
dividends,” said Garner in a telephone interview from Hong Kong
on Sept. 22. “In the late 90s and early 2000s, there was not a
focus on dividend yield, and there is much more of that now,
especially in the technology space.”  About 90 percent of technology companies in the MSCI Taiwan
Index pay a dividend, compared with 78 percent of computer firms
in MSCI’s Asia index, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The 21
percent loss in the Taiex this year has more than doubled the
payout rate to 4.8 percent from 2.2 percent in January 2010.  Credit Contagion  Higher dividends can’t make up for the 16 percent plunge in
MSCI’s global equity benchmark this year. Declines may increase
should the European debt crisis worsen and weaken growth, said
Chew Soon Gek, the Singapore-based regional head of portfolio
management and investment strategy at Clariden Leu AG, which
oversees the equivalent of about $106 billion. She recommends
investors “underweight” stocks.  “We would rather be more cautious and defensive,” Gek
said. “There’s a trade dependency on developed economies and
even if you have more stimulus in  China , it may not be enough to
offset the slow growth prospects in Europe and the U.S.”  The European Union is China’s largest trading partner with
exports increasing 22 percent last month to $34 billion from a
year ago, according to data released Sept. 10 from the Chinese
customs bureau. The world’s second-biggest economy shipped $30
billion to the U.S. in August, the data showed.  IMF Cuts Outlook  The  International Monetary Fund  cut projections for global
and Chinese economic expansion last week, citing concern the
government will maintain policies to curb inflation as demand
for exports weakens. The world economy will increase 4 percent
next year, down from a previous estimate of 4.5 percent, the
lender said in a report. China’s 2012 growth forecast was
lowered to 9 percent from 9.5 percent, according to the
Washington-based IMF.  Financial shares in the MSCI Asia gauge slumped 8.9 percent
last week after the IMF said the sovereign debt crisis has
generated as much as 300 billion euros ($410 billion) in credit
risk for European lenders. That pushed the industry’s dividend
yield to 4.3 percent, the highest since April 2009, data tracked
by Bloomberg show.  Shareholder payouts are increasing in Asia because there
are fewer opportunities for executives to expand operations,
said Louis Veilleux, a senior investment manager at Pictet Asset
Management, which oversees about $130 billion in Geneva. The
dividend fund that he manages has higher weighting in European
and American stocks, he said.  Infrastructure Yields  “We find more high-yielding infrastructure companies in
these regions,” said Veilleux in a Sept. 22 e-mail. “European
and U.S. companies offer more generous dividends.”  Australian stocks pay the highest yields among Asia’s 10
biggest equity markets. The S&P/ASX 200 has a payout of 5.2
percent, the most since August 2009, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The  MSCI China (MXCN)  Index offers 3.4 percent, the most
since April 2009.  European companies pay even more. The yields for France’s
CAC-40 Index,  Spain ’s  IBEX 35 Index (IBEX)  and  Italy ’s FTSE MIB Index
each exceed 4.6 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Euro
Stoxx 50 2013 dividend futures, which depend on the value of
2012 earnings, have fallen 26 percent since July 22.  Morgan Stanley’s Garner recommends a basket of 15 Asian
stocks outside  Japan , including Cnooc Ltd., China’s largest
offshore energy explorer. Shares of the Beijing-based company
are down 36 percent this year even after posting record half-
year profit last month as it increased output to meet demand.  Cnooc, Exxon Mobil  Cnooc’s yield of 4.2 percent exceeds the global industry
average of 3.2 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Irving, Texas-based  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the world’s biggest oil
company, pays a 2.7 percent dividend. Cnooc may increase its
semi-annual payment to 27 Hong Kong cents (3.5 U.S. cents) a
share in April from 25 Hong Kong cents, Bloomberg data show.  Dividends are rising fastest for Asia’s industrial and so-
called consumer discretionary companies. They will boost
payments by more than 51 percent this year, the most among the
10 major groups in the MSCI benchmark, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with 31 percent average
growth for the same industries in MSCI’s global benchmark.  “Growth companies have always had the spotlight in Asia,”
said Cedric Ma, senior investment strategist at Convoy Asset
Management Ltd., which oversees about $250 million in Hong Kong.
“But investors are seeing that dividend-paying stocks may be
more stable, especially since growth globally is slowing down.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Thomasson in Hong Kong at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 