-- 
Record Cash Crunch Forecast to Abate as Global Outlook Dims: China Credit

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-26T02:10:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/record-cash-crunch-to-ease-amid-global-slowdown-china-credit.html
China ’s biggest cash shortage will
ease in the fourth quarter as the risk of a global economic
slump prompts the central bank to halt monetary tightening, a
survey of bond analysts showed.  The seven-day repurchase rate, the annualized interest rate
banks say they charge each other for one-week loans, will
average 3.8 percent, based on the median of 12 estimates in a
Bloomberg survey. This quarter’s level of 4.4 percent is the
highest in data going back to the start of 2004. Similar rates
for dollars, euro and yen have averaged 0.18 percent, 1.21
percent and 0.13 percent in the same period.  “The central bank will probably stand by and watch in the
fourth quarter,” said Shi Lei, head of fixed-income research in
Beijing at Ping An Securities Co., a unit of the nation’s
second-biggest insurance company. “With such big uncertainties
in the global economy and increasing signs of a domestic
slowdown, the likelihood of a hike in interest rates or reserve-
requirement ratios is very low.”  Swap traders pared bets last week on the possibility the
central bank will raise rates in the next 12 months as the
 International Monetary Fund  cut economic growth forecasts for
China and the world. Shi said more available cash in the banking
system will spur a rebound in  government bonds  in the coming
quarter, with five- and seven-year debt to lead gains.  The People’s Bank of China didn’t raise lenders’ reserve-
requirement ratios this quarter, after nine increases in the
eight months through June, and the last of five interest-rate
rises in the past year took effect on July 7. The central bank
began broadening the scope of reserve ratios to include margin
deposits from Sept. 5, a measure being phased in over six months.  Hoarding Cash  The seven-day repo rate jumped 85 basis points, or 0.85
percentage point, last week to 4.17 percent in Shanghai, after
sliding 88 basis points in the previous two weeks, on
speculation lenders will hoard cash to meet quarter-end  capital
requirements  and holiday demand for funds. China’s financial
markets will be closed in the first week of October for the
National Day break.  “The extra money banks have to set aside because of the
widening of the reserves base may amount to more than 200
billion yuan in both October and November,” said Chen Jianheng,
a bond analyst at China International Capital Corp. in Beijing.
“Even though another reserve-ratio hike is unlikely in the
fourth quarter, we probably won’t see a big rebound in cash
supply.”  Cash Injections  M2, the broadest measure of  money supply , expanded 13.5
percent from a year earlier in August, the smallest advance
since October 2004, central bank data show. Growth averaged 21
percent in the past three years.  China’s central bank has kept pumping capital into the
 interbank market  in each of the past 10 weeks, with maturing
bills and repurchase agreements exceeding those issued,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Policy makers injected
399 billion yuan ($62.4 billion) of cash in the period.  “The PBOC’s moves in open-market operations show that it
may want to take banks out of the cash deadlock,” said Wang Mingfeng, a bond analyst in Beijing at Citic Securities Co., the
nation’s second-biggest brokerage by revenue. “As inflation
starts to trend down, monetary policy shouldn’t be so tight.”  Inflation in China slowed to 6.2 percent in August from a
three-year high of 6.5 percent the previous month, the
statistics bureau said on Sept. 9. Wang said consumer-price
gains may moderate to about 5 percent in the fourth quarter
because the slowing economy will crimp domestic demand.  Rate Expectations  China’s two-year interest-rate swaps, which exchange the
central bank’s one-year deposit rate for a fixed payment,
dropped seven basis points to 3.47 percent as of 9:53 a.m. in
Shanghai. That’s the biggest drop in four months and the
contracts, for the first time since May 2009, reflect
expectations borrowing costs will be cut within a year.  The floating part of the contract is reset after one year
and a rate of 3.50 percent would show traders expect no change
in the official savings rate, while a 3.625 percent level would
indicate one increase of 25 basis points.  China International Capital’s Chen said the country may
raise  interest rates  one more time by the end of this year,
though reserve-requirement ratios are unlikely to be increased.  Reserve ratios for smaller lenders may be lowered in
November or December, according to Citic Securities’ Wang. The
ratio for major banks is at a record 21.5 percent, while that
for their smaller counterparts is 19.5 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Worsening Outlook  China’s gross domestic product will rise 9.5 percent this
year, less than a June estimate of 9.6 percent, the IMF said on
Sept. 20, citing policy tightening and moderating external
demand. The Washington-based lender lowered their 2012 growth
forecast for the nation to 9 percent from 9.5 percent.  Manufacturing may shrink for a third month in September,
the longest run of contractions since 2009, based on an index
released by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics on Sept. 22.  The cost of insuring Chinese sovereign bonds against
default is climbing. Five-year credit-default swaps on
government debt jumped 47 basis points last week to 173 basis
points, the biggest increase since 2008, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Falling Yields  Expectations the economy will continue to slow are helping
shore up domestic demand for Chinese securities. The  finance
ministry  sold 33.05 billion yuan of 10-year bonds on Sept. 21 at
an average yield of 4.07 percent, according to Chinabond, the
nation’s biggest debt clearing house. That was less than the
4.09 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of analysts.
The yield on similar-maturity existing notes was 3.97 percent at
the end of last week.  The yield on China’s five-year bonds declined 13 basis
points last week to 3.82 percent, according to Chinabond. The
rate on seven-year debt dropped 11 basis points to 3.92 percent.
Yields for those maturities are likely to decline by about 30
basis points in the fourth quarter, Ping An’s Shi estimated.  The yuan strengthened 0.06 percent today to 6.3848 per
dollar in  Shanghai , after sliding 0.09 percent last week,
according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System. Twelve-
month forwards contracts gained 0.09 percent to 6.3998, a 0.2
percent discount to the spot rate. China’s currency may become
fully convertible in five years,  Li Daokui , an adviser to the
People’s Bank of China, said Sept. 25 in  Washington .  Financial institutions’ yuan positions, accumulated from
purchases of foreign exchange by the central bank, rose by a net
377 billion yuan in August, 72 percent more than in July and the
biggest increase in five months, central bank data showed on
Sept. 21. Economists watch the numbers for signs of inflows of
speculative capital.  “There will continue to be stable capital inflows into
China in the fourth quarter,” said Citic Securities’ Wang, who
estimated the monthly gain in yuan positions will be 250 billion
to 300 billion yuan. “The short-term  market sentiment  won’t
shake investors’ confidence in China.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  