-- 
Vettel Needs One Point for F-1 Title After Victory at Singapore Grand Prix

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-09-25T17:57:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/red-bull-s-vettel-wins-singapore-grand-prix-to-move-closer-to-f-1-title.html
Sebastian Vettel is one point away
from winning his second straight Formula One title with Red Bull
Racing after victory in the Singapore Grand Prix yesterday.  The 24-year-old German held off a late challenge by  Jenson Button  of McLaren for his ninth win of the season. Red Bull’s
 Mark Webber  was third.  Vettel increased his lead to 124 points with five of 19
races left, and can clinch the drivers’ championship with a top-
10 finish on Oct. 9 in Suzuka,  Japan . Button, the 2009 champion,
is second overall.  The defending champion could have wrapped up the title
yesterday if his main rivals had finished lower. He said he was
in command even when slowed by a safety car and back-markers
during the 61-lap evening race on the floodlit Marina Bay street
circuit. He won by 1.7 seconds.  “There was not a big margin when I crossed the line, but I
was in control, and this is a great result,” Vettel told a
televised news conference. “For the championship, it looks like
we have another chance the next race.”  Vettel started in pole position for the 11th time this
season and pulled away early, enjoying a 14-second advantage
after 21 laps.  His progress was checked when he had to follow the safety
car after a crash by  Michael Schumacher  on lap 30. Button made
up as much as eight seconds on Vettel in the closing laps as he
darted past back-markers.  ‘Good Shot’  “We weren’t quick enough to win but we gave it a good
shot,” Button said on the team radio after crossing the finish
line. Vettel let out a yell and said “Thanks very much” in
German over his in-car radio.  Television pictures showed the top-three cars finished with
scuffed-up tires. Button said in a statement he was being told
“throughout” the race to look after his tires and couldn’t
push until the last 12 laps.  In the most spectacular crash of the race, Schumacher
clipped the back of Sergio Perez’s Sauber, lifting his Mercedes’
front wheels into the air and hurtling into a barrier.
Schumacher was able to climb out without help. He received a
reprimand from race officials.  Two-time champion  Fernando Alonso  of Ferrari moved up to
third from fifth at the start but said his tires degraded and he
didn’t have the pace of rivals as the race progressed. He
finished fourth and dropped to third in the championship, one
point behind Button.  Lewis Hamilton  of McLaren finished fifth after rallying
from 20th following a drive-through penalty for clipping the
back of  Felipe Massa ’s Ferrari on lap 12.  Massa’s car crawled into the pit-lane with a shredded rear
tire. Talking to reporters after finishing ninth, Massa
criticized Hamilton for “not using his mind, again.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  