-- 
Rio Says Accord Changes May Alarm Mongolia Investors

-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 
2011-09-26T00:57:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/rio-says-changes-to-oyu-tolgoi-stake-accord-may-alarm-mongolia-investors.html
Rio Tinto  Group said that potential
changes by Mongolia to an investment accord that at present
gives partner Ivanhoe Mines Ltd. control of one of the world’s
largest copper mines will alarm investors.  “The most important thing that foreign investors require
when they’re making their investment decisions is the feeling of
predictability and stability in the country in which they
operate,” Cameron McRae, Rio Tinto’s Mongolia country director,
said in the capital, Ulan Bator, yesterday. “An unstable
environment, where changes to agreements are forced, leads to
investors being very apprehensive and uncertain.”  McRae, who is also chief executive officer of Oyu Tolgoi
LLC, made the comment after Mongolian Finance Minister Sangajav Bayartsogt said that the government may amend the investment
terms for Oyu Tolgoi to boost state ownership. A revision may
delay the proposed 2013 start of the project with any increase
in the state’s share curbing profits from the $10 billion mine
for developers Rio and Ivanhoe.  Rio estimates world demand for refined copper will grow 40
percent to 27 million metric tons by 2020, according to a Sept.
8 presentation. Oyu Tolgoi will be one of the world’s five-
biggest copper mines and may have average annual production of
450,000 tons of copper and 330,000 ounces of gold, Rio said.
That’s about $4 billion a year in sales at current prices.  ‘Mammoth Sum’  The existing agreement has given Rio Tinto the confidence
to invest “such a mammoth sum” in the project, said McRae.
“What we are demonstrating is the investment agreement is a
contract. We’re going to honor it and we expect the government
to honor it.”  The project, 66 percent owned by Ivanhoe and 34 percent by
the Mongolian government, is half way through completion,
according to Rio, which owns 48.5 percent of Vancouver-based
Ivanhoe and controls the Oyu Tolgoi management.  Mongolia’s government is also seeking to change the
allotment of stakes in the Talvan Tolgoi coal deposit to
investors including  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU) , the largest U.S. coal
producer. The proposals to revise ownership of the country’s two
biggest mineral developments come ahead of parliamentary
elections next year.  A group of 20 Mongolian lawmakers wrote to Prime Minister
Sukhbaatar Batbold on Sept. 7 demanding the investment accord
for Oyu Tolgoi be revised to give the country a 50 percent
holding, China’s Xinhua  News Agency  reported Sept. 20. Mongolia
has appointed chief of the cabinet office Chimed Khurelbaatar to
start talks with the miners, the news agency said on Sept. 22.  More Talks  Rio would like to have more talks with the Mongolian
government as it hasn’t received any formal notification about a
proposed revision, said McRae, who was appointed by Rio. The
company has managed the project since December.  Oyu Tolgoi, which means “turquoise hill,” will boost the
country’s gross domestic product by 30 percent by 2020, when it
reaches full production, said  Andrew Harding , chief executive
officer of Rio Tinto’s copper unit. The project may cost $10
billion in total, Harding said.  Oyu Tolgoi’s shareholders are seeking to raise as much as
$4 billion to finance the development, which would make it the
biggest  project financing  in the  mining industry , said McRae.
Rio has invested more than $3 billion in the past five years.  Ivanhoe spent more than six years negotiating an investment
pact with Mongolia before reaching an agreement in October 2009
to allow it to mine the site. Rio’s two biggest development
projects are Oyu Tolgoi and the Simandou iron ore project in
 Guinea , which Rio has said will cost more than $10 billion.  Power Supplies  Rio is also seeking to resolve the issue of power supplies
for Oyu Tolgoi. Production may be delayed if the source of
electricity isn’t agreed in the coming months, Harding said at
the briefing. Talks between the governments of  China  and
Mongolia over power continue, with China the preferred source of
initial supplies, he said.  “We believe the power issue is a key risk to the project
execution at least in terms on time-line,” Citigroup Inc.
analysts  Heath Jansen ,  Clarke Wilkins  and Anindya Mohinta wrote
in a Sept. 20 report.  Mongolia, a landlocked country between China and  Russia , is
one of the richest nations in terms of natural resources, and
that’s just the known deposits as four-fifths of the nation
hasn’t been surveyed. Aside from coal and copper, the country
also holds oil, potash, iron ore and uranium, as well as rare
earths used in electronics and turbines. Agriculture and mining
each account for about 20 percent of gross domestic product.  China Trade  Mongolia has grown increasingly dependent on commerce with
China’s 1.3 billion people since the 1991 breakup of the  Soviet
Union . China accounts for 80 percent of Mongolia’s imports and
buys about 85 percent of its exports, according to Mongolia’s
central bank data.  President Tsakhia Elbegdorj, a former journalist who led
the peaceful revolution that ended more than 65 years of
communist rule in Mongolia in 1990, said in June he’s concerned
about how to “manage” the surge of foreign investment and
ensure the windfall spreads among the nation’s citizens.  More than 33 percent of Mongolians live below the poverty
line, and per capita income in the nation of 2.7 million is
$2,111, the  International Monetary Fund  said in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Mongolia at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  