-- 
Rupee’s Drop in ‘So Short a Time’ Is a Concern, Reserve Bank’s Gokarn Says

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 
2011-09-26T05:22:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/rupee-s-drop-in-so-short-a-time-is-a-concern-reserve-bank-s-gokarn-says.html
The decline in the Indian rupee in
“so short a time” is a concern that reflects volatility in
global financial markets,  Reserve Bank  of India Deputy Governor
Subir Gokarn said.  Sharp movements in the currency can be disruptive and tend
to trigger panic, he said in a speech in  Washington  yesterday.
India has not intervened with an exchange-rate target in mind
for a long time and there are no plans to change the policy, he
said.  “It is a matter of some concern that we depreciate so much
in so short a time but we have to put that into perspective,”
Gokarn said. “This is a global phenomenon. There is nothing
specific in the country that is driving this process.”  Asian currencies had their biggest weekly drop since 1998
last week as concern the global economy is headed for a
recession dimmed the outlook for exports and prompted investors
to favor safer bets than emerging-market assets.  India ’s rupee
had its worst week in 18 years.  “The volatility is so high that the central bank will have
to strongly intervene to arrest slide in the rupee,” said Roy Paul, a Mumbai-based deputy general manager of fixed income and
currencies at Federal Bank Ltd.  India’s currency today weakened as much as 0.5 percent to
49.67 per dollar and was trading at 49.40 at 10:35 a.m. Fifty
“may be a critical level, which the RBI may not allow to breach
easily,” Paul said.  G-20 Coordination  The rupee has declined 6.8 percent this month even as the
Group of 20 economies sought to quell the turmoil in financial
markets.  “We do see that very sharp movements intra-hour or intra-
day can be disruptive,” Gokarn said. “They tend to trigger
panic, entry or exit. In that situation, we feel that there is
some merit in smoothing, infusing dollars to ensure that
movement is moderated. That is something we would consider.”  Inflation in India “remains high” and will probably
remain in a range of 9 percent to 10 percent until November,
Gokarn said.  The Reserve Bank boosted India’s repurchase rate for the
sixth time this year on Sept. 16, raising benchmark borrowing
costs 25 basis points to 8.25 percent as policy makers seek to
tame the fastest inflation among the biggest emerging markets.
Indian wholesale prices rose 9.78 percent from a year earlier in
August.  Economic indicators are signaling a slowdown in growth,
Gokarn said. India’s $1.7 trillion economy expanded 7.7 percent
in the three months ended June 30 from a year earlier, the
slowest pace of growth since the last quarter of 2009.  “All of the momentum indicators are showing signs of
moderation,” the deputy governor said. “Tax collections are
starting to ease off. When we track growth, it’s clearly come
down to below 8 percent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  