-- 
Russia’s Kudrin Won’t Serve Under Medvedev Amid Military Spending Dispute

-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 
2011-09-25T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/russia-s-kudrin-won-t-serve-under-medvedev-amid-military-spending-dispute.html
Russian Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin, who steered the world’s biggest energy exporter to amass
a $200 billion rainy-day fund over political opposition, won’t
serve in a government with President  Dmitry Medvedev  as prime
minister because of disagreements over military spending.  Medvedev, 46, who succeeded Prime Minister Vladimir Putin
as president in 2008 because the constitution forbids serving
more than two consecutive terms, said yesterday he will back his
predecessor’s second bid for the presidency and may take over
the leadership of the government.  Kudrin, 50, who presided over budget surpluses between 2000
and 2008 and has helped cut state debt to less than 10 percent
of gross domestic product after the country’s 1998 default, said
late yesterday in  Washington  that Medvedev’s push for a 2.1
trillion ruble ($65 billion) increase in defense spending
through 2014 creates “additional risks for both the budget and
the economy as a whole.”  Russia ’s second-longest serving minister said that he
hasn’t been approached about working under a Medvedev-led
Cabinet and would “definitely” refuse should he be asked.  “I don’t see myself in the new government,” Kudrin told
reporters in the U.S. capital, where he was attending the
International Monetary Fund annual meeting. “It’s not just that
no one has offered me it, but I think that the disagreements
that I have won’t allow me to join that government. I just think
that today that’s an option that has to be ruled out.”  Effective Team  Putin, 58, said yesterday that Medvedev would, with popular
support, “form a new, effective, young team, and head the
government of the Russian Federation to continue work on
modernizing all aspects of our life.”  The announcement that Putin and Medvedev may swap jobs was
made at a congress for their United Russia party in Moscow
yesterday. Kudrin said that he was disappointed the additional
military spending wasn’t discussed at the conference, adding
that the increase is equal to the amount allocated for all
education spending this year.  The increased expenditure makes it more likely Russia will
remain dependent on high  oil prices  to balance its budget and
fuel its economy, Kudrin said, adding that Putin will probably
be more active in “conducting reforms.”  “I have a series of disagreements with Medvedev on
economic policy, above all on significant military
expenditures,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Washington at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  