-- 
Saleh Calls for Yemen Elections as Violence Against Protesters Intensifies

-- B y   V i v i a n   S a l a m a   a n d   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m
-- 
2011-09-25T20:07:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/saleh-calls-for-yemen-elections-as-violence-against-protesters-intensifies.html
Yemen ’s President Ali Abdullah Saleh today called for parliamentary and presidential elections
once an agreement with the opposition over a Gulf Cooperation
Council plan was brokered by his vice president.  “We have talked repeatedly about the peaceful transfer of
power through the ballot boxes,” the president said in a
televised address on the eve of Yemen’s Revolution Day. “We
repeat today that we are committed to the Gulf initiative and to
implementing it as it is signed by the vice president.”  Saleh said he supported the “legitimate demands” of
political parties and Yemeni youth, adding that some groups are
committing “crimes” to seize power and wealth.  Fireworks were fired in the skies of Sanaa following his
speech to celebrate the Revolution Day. Earlier, Saleh’s forces
opened fire on tens of thousands of protesters, wounding 17
protesters, three of whom are in critical condition, by live
rounds, said Mohammed Qubatai, a doctor at the field clinic at
the protest camp dubbed Change Square. Forces loyal to the
president killed four protesters in Sanaa today, according to
reports from Al Jazeera television.  In  Libya  meanwhile, forces loyal to  Muammar Qaddafi  staged
on offensive on the city of Ghadames in the western part of the
country, killing 10 today and wounding 25 others, Al Jazeera
television reported.  Libyan opposition forces renewed their assault on the
coastal city of Sirte, the Qaddafi’s hometown, after announcing
the creation of their first joint military union.  Fighting in Libya  At least seven people were killed and 145 wounded yesterday
as fighters attacked loyalist positions in and around the city
according to the military council in Misrata, which is leading
the operation. Forces from the towns of Hun and Waddan moved
north to join the offensive and Sirte “is now under full siege
from the south,” the council said in a statement.  In Taiz, Yemen’s second-largest city and hotbed of anti-
Saleh uprising, five people were killed and eight others were
wounded early today in clashes and shelling of the city by
government forces. The Interior ministry said in a statement
carried by the state-owned Saba news agency that two soldiers
were killed and five others wounded seriously in an ambush in
the city.  Violent crackdowns have intensified in recent days after
Yemeni protesters vowed to escalate calls for an end to Saleh’s
three-decade rule. At least 150 people have been killed in two
weeks of fighting. Saleh returned to Yemen on Sept. 24 after
spending almost four months in  Saudi Arabia  where he was
receiving treatment for injuries he suffered in an attack on his
compound.  Tunisia Inspiration  Demonstrations began in the Arab world’s poorest country in
February, inspired by revolts that ousted the leaders of Tunisia
and  Egypt , and deepened as military and tribal leaders joined
the opposition. Efforts by Gulf Arab countries to broker a
power-transfer agreement have failed.  Upon his return, Saleh called for a truce amid fighting
between government troops and opposition forces demanding his
ouster that has killed thousands this year.  Tens of thousands of Yemenis took to the streets of Sanaa
and Taiz today to denounce the death of almost 50 people in two
days of clashes with government forces. Yemeni authorities
“appeared to have lost effective control of parts of the
country and within the major cities,” the United Nations Office
of the High Commissioner for Human Rights said in a report. It
warned that Yemen faced civil war.  Unrest escalated last week after the Organization Committee
of the Popular Youth Revolution urged Yemenis to intensify
protests.  Saleh, 69, a U.S. ally in the fight against al-Qaeda,
became leader of North Yemen in 1978 and has ruled the Republic
of Yemen since the north and south merged in 1990. He has
repeatedly said that his immediate departure could lead to chaos
and a four-way split of the country.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vivian Salama in  Abu Dhabi  at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net ;
Mohammed Hatem in Dubai at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 