-- 
Argentina Keeps Rugby World Cup Bid Alive With Victory; Ireland, Samoa Win

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-09-25T12:59:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/samoa-beats-fiji-27-7-to-stay-in-contention-to-win-rugby-world-cup-pool-d.html
Argentina  defeated  Scotland  13-12
to keep alive its chances of advancing to the  Rugby World Cup 
quarterfinals, while Ireland routed Russia to lead Pool C and
Samoa beat Fiji to stay in contention to win its group.  Replacement back Lucas Gonzalez Amorosino scored the only
try with seven minutes left last night and Felipe Contepomi
converted to give Argentina a one-point lead. Drop goals from
Ruaridh Jackson and Dan Parks had put Scotland 12-6 ahead in a
match played in wet conditions in Wellington, New Zealand.  The result puts Argentina and Scotland on 10 points, four
behind leader  England  in Pool B. The Pumas, who finished third
at the 2007  World Cup , face  Georgia  in their final group game on
Oct. 2. Scotland takes on England the day before.  “Now we are in the front seat in terms of going and
playing Georgia and trying to look for qualification,”
Contepomi said in a news conference. “We came to this World Cup
with very few people believing in this team. It’s a great plus
for us that now we depend on ourselves.”  A Scotland win over Argentina would have put both itself
and England in the last eight with their matchup next week in
Auckland deciding the group winner. All three teams still have a
chance of topping the pool and avoiding top-ranked  New Zealand 
in an Oct. 9 quarterfinal at Eden Park. The top two teams in
each of the four pools advance.  “Thirty seconds of madness has really cost us,” Scotland
coach Andy Robinson told reporters. “The guys are hurting at
the moment and I can understand why.”  The All Blacks, who beat France 37-17 two days ago to
cement their status as the favorites to win the Webb Ellis Cup,
are the only team so far assured of a quarterfinal spot.  Amorosino Run  Scotland led 6-3 at half time last night through penalties
by Chris Paterson and Jackson. Contepomi’s 63rd-minute penalty
made it 6-6 before Jackson and Parks kicked drop goals.  With his team trailing by six points, Amorosino received
the ball just inside the Scotland half and sliced his way
through four defenders down the right flank before touching
down. Contepomi added the conversion and Argentina held on for
the victory as Parks missed a late drop-goal attempt.  It was the second match at the 20-team tournament to be
decided by a single point following defending champion South
Africa’s 17-16 win over  Wales  on the opening weekend.  “We had one or two chances and Felipe did well with the
kicking,” Amorosino told reporters. “It was an amazing
performance. We know we need to play until the last minute; it’s
a World Cup.”  Nine-Try Romp  Center Keith Earls touched down twice as Ireland outscored
 Russia  by nine tries to two in Rotorua to seal a bonus-point
win. Fly-half  Ronan O’Gara  missed only one of his eight kicks at
goal to finish with 15 points.  Ireland, which upset two-time world champion  Australia  on
Sept. 17, has 13 points through three games and will take a
three-point lead over the Wallabies into next weekend’s final
round of Pool C games.  “We needed to back up the performance from last weekend,”
Ireland captain Leo Cullen said in a televised interview. “It
was important that we carry on the momentum.”  Ireland, which isn’t yet guaranteed a place in the
quarterfinals, can win the group by beating Six Nations rival
 Italy  on Oct. 2. The Italians first play the U.S. tomorrow.  Fergus McFadden, Sean O’Brien, Isaac Boss, Earls and Andrew Trimble all scored first-half tries to put Ireland 36-0 up at
the break. Earls went over for his second before Vasily Artemyev
and Denis Simplikevich ran in tries for the Russians.  Rob Kearney, Shane Jennings and Tony Buckley touched down
in the last 15 minutes to lift the winning margin to 50 points.  Opportunity Knocks  “It would be a huge waste of opportunity if we went home
next week,” O’Gara told reporters.  A day after the All Blacks attracted a crowd of 60,856 at
 Eden Park  for their win over France, Samoa and Fiji drew just
529 fewer for their Pacific Islands matchup.  Fly-half Tusi Pisi kicked all Samoa’s first-half points,
including a drop goal, and added a penalty five minutes after
the break to put the two-time quarterfinalist 15-0 up.  “This game is all about pressure,” Samoa captain Mahonri
Schwalger said in a televised interview. “If you want to win
this sort of match against a strong side like Fiji you have to
make sure you get your points when you get down in their 22.”  Scrum-half Kahn Fotuali’i wriggled his way through the
Fijian defense for the game’s first try before Fiji hit back in
the 67th minute with a converted try from flanker Netani Talei.
Samoa responded immediately when full-back  Paul Williams  scythed
through a gap before sending No. 8 George Stowers over in the
corner. Williams converted to make it 27-7.  Ten Points  The win gave Samoa 10 points in Pool D before its final
group match on Sept. 30 against  South Africa , which tops the
group with 14 points. Wales could join Samoa on 10 points by
beating last-place  Namibia  in today’s only game.  “We’ve come into this tournament with a goal and we knew
we had to beat either one of South Africa or Wales,” Samoa
assistant coach Brian McLean said in a news conference. “We
failed with the first one so we’ll be doing everything in our
power to try and beat South Africa.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  