-- 
Saudi King Authorizes Women to Run in Local Elections, Join Shoura Council

-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 
2011-09-25T13:02:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/saudi-king-says-women-will-be-members-in-next-shoura-council-1-.html
Saudi Arabia will allow women to
become full members of the Shoura Council and be candidates for
the first time in future municipal elections,  King Abdullah  said
today.  “We refuse to marginalize the role of women in Saudi
society in every field of work,” Abdullah said on state
television as he inaugurated a new session of the council.
“Women have the right to submit their candidacy for municipal
council membership and have the right to take part in submitting
candidates in accordance with Shariah.”  The Riyadh-based council, a 150 member assembly, is
appointed by the king to advise on legislation. The assembly
consists of 12 committees, including for human rights, foreign
affairs and energy. The council, whose current speaker is
Abdullah Al al-Sheikh, is permitted to propose draft laws and
present them to the king.  Saudi Arabia enforces gender restrictions interpreted from
the Wahhabi version of Sunni Islam. Men and women are strictly
segregated in public, including at schools, restaurants and
lines at fast-food takeouts. That keeps women out of sales jobs
in malls and stores, unless the outlet caters exclusively to a
female clientele.  Abdullah, who was born in 1924, has promised to improve the
status of women and opened the first co-educational university
in 2009. He appointed the kingdom’s first female deputy
minister, Nora bint Abdullah al-Fayez, the same year and has
said he will provide more access to jobs for women. Women are
still not allowed to drive.  Municipal Elections  Saudi Arabia  will hold municipal elections on Sept. 29,
without the participation of women. About 1.2 million all-male
voters have registered to elect 816 municipal council members in
the kingdom’s second municipal elections. Saudi Arabia held its
first municipal elections in February 2005.  The  Shoura Council  agreed in June that the Ministry of
Municipal and Rural Affairs should complete procedures that will
allow women to vote in municipal elections “in line with
Islamic law,” the official Saudi Press Agency reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  