-- 
U.K.’s Labour Party Pledges to Reverse Bank Corporation-Tax Cut

-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 
2011-09-25T10:04:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/u-k-s-labour-party-pledges-to-reverse-bank-corporation-tax-cut.html
The U.K.’s main opposition  Labour
Party  said it will reverse Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
 corporation-tax  cut for banks to reduce student tuition fees.  Labour leader  Ed Miliband  said the fees, capped by
Cameron’s coalition government at 9,000 pounds ($13,900) a year,
should be limited to 6,000 pounds a year. Graduates earning more
than 65,000 pounds a year would pay a higher rate of interest on
their student loans if Labour wins back power after losing it in
last year’s elections.  “I don’t think a priority for Britain is to cut taxes for
financial services,” Miliband said in an interview with BBC
television’s “Andrew Marr Show” today. “We’ve got a short
term fast-buck economy and we’ve got to move to a different kind
of economy,” he said. The U.K. “needs long-term values and
long-term investment in our young people.”  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  announced in his
March 23 budget that corporation tax for all businesses will be
cut from 28 percent last year to 23 percent in 2014. Osborne
told lawmakers that the levy on bank balance sheets would be
increased to 0.078 percent from January 2012 to “offset” the
benefit for financial-services companies from the tax cut, which
was criticized by Labour Prime Minister Gordon Brown during the
campaign for the May 2010 elections.  Miliband said today that value-added tax, a  sales tax ,
should be cut from 20 percent to help stimulate growth in the
British economy and that there should be a tax on bank bonuses
to fund youth employment programs. He also repeated his call for
Cameron to adjust his deficit-cutting plans and press for a
special meeting of Group of 20 leaders to coordinate action to
spur growth.  “The question is will; does the government have the
political will?” Miliband said. “Are they more interested in
protecting the integrity of their own plan or the integrity of
the British economy?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  