-- 
U.S. Should Put Pakistan on Notice After Kabul Embassy Attack, Graham Says

-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s   a n d   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 
2011-09-25T16:17:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/u-s-should-put-pakistan-on-notice-after-kabul-embassy-attack-graham-says.html
The U.S. may have to consider a
military response to the government of Pakistan’s alleged
support of a terrorist group that attacked the American embassy
in Kabul, Afghanistan, U.S.  Senator Lindsey Graham  said.  “We need to put Pakistan on notice,” Graham, a member of
the Senate Armed services Committee, said today on the “Fox
News Sunday” program. “If they continue to embrace terrorism
as a part of their national strategy, we’re going to have to put
all options on the table, including defending our troops.”  Graham, a South Carolina Republican, said lawmakers would
muster bipartisan support “to elevate our response” if needed.
He didn’t specify what actions he would back.  Pakistan must stop providing safe havens for the Haqqani
group, said  David Plouffe , a White House senior adviser, on
CNN’s “State of the Union.” U.S. and Afghan officials have
said the network of militants, supported by Inter-Services
Intelligence, Pakistan’s main spy agency, is behind a Sept. 13
assault on the U.S. embassy with rocket-propelled grenades.  In a statement, Pakistan’s Prime Minister Yousuf Raza Gilani yesterday denied his government’s ties to the Haqqani
group and said U.S. policy on  Afghanistan  shows “confusion and
disarray.” The U.S., Afghanistan and Pakistan need to better
coordinate action to fight terrorism, he said.  Graham said that Congress should reconsider its practice of
approving a designated amount of aid for Pakistan. The
administration is talking about whether to change its requests
for aid to the country, Plouffe said.  ‘Important Aim’  “Those discussions are happening between our foreign
policy and national security teams,” he said. Severing the
alleged connection between the Haqqanis and the Pakistan
government is “going to be a very important aim for us in the
coming period of time.”  The U.S. said in July it was withholding about $800 million
in aid because of steps  Pakistan  took following the U.S. raid
that killed al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden on May 2, creating
difficulties between the two countries.  Admiral Mike Mullen, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff,
told the armed services panel on Sept. 22 that the Haqqani
network also conducted the June 28 attack at the Inter-
Continental Hotel in Kabul.  The Haqqani group, based in eastern Afghanistan and the
Pakistani region of Waziristan, has claimed responsibility or
been blamed by the Afghan, U.S. and Indian governments for
attacks on Kabul in the past three years against the Indian
Embassy, government ministries and hotels where foreign
diplomats or aid workers were living.  Legal Obstacle  There may be little the U.S. can do to halt Pakistan’s
support for militants, according to Tom Lynch, a former special
assistant to the chairman of the Joint Chiefs who is now a
research fellow for the Near East and  South Asia  at the National
Defense University in Washington.  Given the fragility of Afghanistan, Pakistan’s nuclear
arsenal and the dangers of a new confrontation with  India , even
the leverage the U.S. has is very difficult to use, he has said.  A legal obstacle to a military attack on the Haqqani
organization inside Pakistan is the fact that the State
Department has never designated it a Foreign Terrorist
Organization. Three of its leaders have been identified as
terrorists and 49 other groups have been named FTOs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net ;
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 przybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in  Washington  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  