-- 
U.S. Stocks Rise as Dow Average Caps Biggest Gain in One Month

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-09-26T21:31:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/u-s-stock-futures-slump-as-europe-fails-to-take-steps-to-contain-crisis.html
U.S. stocks advanced, giving the
 Dow Jones Industrial Average  its biggest increase in a month,
amid speculation that European policy makers will act to prevent
the region’s debt crisis from getting worse.  Bank of America Corp. and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  rose more
than 4.5 percent as the  European Central Bank  was said to
consider restarting covered-bond purchases along with further
measures to ease monetary conditions.  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) 
Class B shares added 8.6 percent as the company plans a stock
buyback.  Boeing Co. (BA)  rallied 4.2 percent as the delivery of the
787 Dreamliner ended more than three years of delays.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 2.3 percent to
1,162.95 at 4 p.m. in New York. The Dow average climbed 272.38
points, or 2.5 percent, to 11,043.86, rebounding from the
biggest weekly decline since October 2008.  “The situation in Europe is a near-term risk, but if the
global economy muddles through, you’ll probably have room for a
rally in stocks,"  Russ Koesterich , the San Francisco-based
global chief investment strategist for the IShares unit of
BlackRock Inc., said in a telephone interview. His firm oversees
$3.66 trillion as the world’s largest asset manager. "There’s
increased speculation that the ECB is going to cut rates. They
are also searching for ways to make the existing mechanisms more
robust. The market is very focused on that."  The  S&P 500  is down 12 percent since June 30 and headed for
the biggest quarterly slump since 2008 on concern about a global
economic slowdown. Stocks were having the worst quarter on
record relative to U.S. Treasuries and gold, which could force
investors to buy equities to rebalance their allocations, Marko
Kolanovic, the New York-based global head of equity derivatives
strategy at JPMorgan, wrote in a note last week.  $1 Trillion  Last week’s rout erased $1 trillion from U.S. equities amid
concern Greek insolvency is inevitable and Europe can’t contain
the damage. The S&P 500 last week was trading at 12.4 times
earnings in the past 12 months, 4.4 percent below its average
valuation at the lowest point during the last nine bear markets,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Now is the time to be bullish, not the time to panic,”
 Jeffrey Saut , chief investment strategist at Raymond James &
Associates in  St. Petersburg ,  Florida , said in a telephone
interview. His firm manages $278 billion. “I don’t think we’re
going into a recession.  Europe  will come up with something.”  ECB policy makers are likely to debate next week restarting
their covered-bond purchases along with further measures to ease
monetary conditions, a euro-region central bank official said.  Interest-Rate Cuts  The reintroduction of 12-month loans to banks will also be
discussed at the ECB’s Oct. 6 policy meeting, said the person,
who spoke on condition of anonymity because the information is
confidential. Interest-rate cuts are likely to be discussed,
though they are not on the current agenda, the official said. A
spokesman for the Frankfurt-based ECB declined to comment.  Stocks briefly pared gains earlier after German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said euro region governments have no
intention of raising the European Financial Stability Facility’s
volume above 440 billion euros. Equities rebounded after ECB
Governing Council member Ewald Nowotny said there may be “good
reason” to reintroduce loans with a maturity of more than six
months.  “When you look at Europe, the solutions are not going to
be implemented any time soon,”  Stephen Wood , who helps oversee
about $163 billion as the New York-based chief market strategist
for Russell Investments, said in a telephone interview. “That
means the market volatility is going to continue.”  Dow Chemical, Caterpillar  The S&P 500 swung between gains and losses before rallying
in the afternoon. The Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index of companies
most-tied to economic growth increased 2.7 percent as Dow
Chemical Co. and Caterpillar Inc. added at least 4 percent. The
Dow Jones Transportation Average gained 2.2 percent. The KBW
Bank Index increased 5.3 percent as all of its 24 stocks rose.  An index of financial shares had the biggest gain in the
S&P 500 within 10 industries, rising 4.4 percent. Bank of
America added 4.6 percent to $6.60. JPMorgan climbed 7 percent
to $31.65, while  Citigroup Inc. (C)  jumped 7 percent to $26.72.  Berkshire Class B shares surged 8.6 percent to $72.09.
 Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway will repurchase shares for
as much as 110 percent of their book value, saying the stock is
undervalued after falling 17 percent this year. The growth of
Berkshire’s cash hoard makes it harder to effectively invest the
proceeds, Buffett told investors at the company’s annual meeting
in April.  ‘Play Offense’  Buffett, the chief executive officer since 1970, in
February touted Berkshire’s capacity to “play offense” in a
crisis. He may have $20 billion at his disposal to buy shares if
markets decline, said David Rolfe, chief investment officer of
Berkshire investor Wedgewood Partners Inc.  “He’s laid the groundwork to swing big and hard if you
wake up some morning and something nasty is going on,” said
Rolfe. “He’s going to be on the phone with his broker saying,
‘Buy the shares.’”  Boeing added 4.2 percent to $62.01. The twin-engine 787 is
Chicago-based Boeing’s best-selling new jet ever, with 821
orders from 56 customers. Boeing is working to boost output to
10 a month by the end of 2013, a record for wide-body aircraft,
after the setbacks increased costs, sent 787 inventory
ballooning to $16.2 billion through June and upset airlines’
timetables for adding new routes.  Apple Falls  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  fell 0.3 percent to $403.17, trimming an earlier
decline of as much as 3.2 percent. The company is cutting orders
to vendors in the supply chain for its iPad tablet computer,
JPMorgan said in a report. Several supply-chain vendors
indicated in the past two weeks that Apple lowered fourth-
quarter iPad orders 25 percent, the first such cut that analysts
at JPMorgan’s electronic manufacturing services team in  Hong
Kong  said they have ever seen.  Eastman Kodak Co. (EK)  tumbled 27 percent, the biggest decline
since January 2009, to $1.74. The camera maker drew down $160
million from its revolving bank line. The company is borrowing
money after Chief Executive Officer Antonio Perez said last
month that the patents Kodak is seeking to sell have generated
interest from potential bidders. Kodak is trying to raise cash
to continue funding inkjet printing and other digital businesses
that it has projected will generate operating profits by 2013.  Stocks fell earlier today as figures from the Commerce
Department showed that purchases of new houses in the U.S.
declined in August to a six-month low as the biggest drop in
prices in two years failed to lure buyers away from even less
expensive distressed properties.  A malfunction kept the Dow from updating for 12 minutes
after trading began at 9:30 a.m.  New York  time, a spokesman for
the index’s owner said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  