-- 
UBS in ‘Disarray’ as Gruebel Quits, Ermotti Named Interim Chief Executive

-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 
2011-09-26T15:48:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/ubs-in-disarray-as-gruebel-quits-ermotti-named-interim-chief.html
The exit of Chief Executive Officer
 Oswald Gruebel  heightened the turmoil roiling  UBS AG (UBSN)  since it
announced a $2.3 billion loss from unauthorized trading less
than two weeks ago.  Gruebel, the head of  Switzerland ’s largest bank since
February 2009, was replaced on an interim basis by  Sergio Ermotti , who joined less than six months ago as CEO for Europe,
the  Middle East  and  Africa , UBS said on Sept. 24. The
resignation of Gruebel, 67, who restored the Zurich-based bank
to profit after record losses, marks the third CEO departure
since 2007.  “This is a bank now in disarray,” said  Christopher Wheeler , an analyst at Mediobanca Securities SpA in London,
which cut its rating on UBS to “underperform” today from
“outperform.” “The board made a terrible blunder” by not
persuading Gruebel to stay, he said.  Morale within the investment-banking division, already
depressed following the trading scandal, dropped even further in
the wake of Gruebel’s departure, according to an executive at
the unit who requested anonymity because he wasn’t authorized to
speak publicly.  Villiger, Kengeter  As the fallout from the trading scandal widens, a senior
executive at UBS speculated that Gruebel quit to prevent the
greater disruption that might have resulted from the departure
of investment-banking chief Carsten Kengeter, who’s in the midst
of shrinking the division. Kengeter, 44, is viewed by some at
UBS as a favorite of Chairman Kaspar Villiger. Villiger told
reporters after Gruebel’s departure that Kengeter had done an
“excellent job” in covering positions after the loss and that
there was no doubt about his future. Another executive suggested
Gruebel stepped down after a call to shake up the board was
rejected.  UBS rose 5 percent to 10.63 francs in Zurich trading as
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts Jernej Omahen and Peter Skoog
said the firm remains their top pick among European investment
banks. Gruebel’s departure “adds weight” to UBS comments on
accelerating the downsizing of its investment bank, they said in
a note to clients today.  The shares are down 31 percent this year, compared with a
34 percent tumble in the Bloomberg  Europe  Banks and Financial
Services Index, which tracks 46 companies.  Gruebel ‘Shocked’  Gruebel, in a memo to staff, said he was convinced a change
of leadership at the top was in the best interests of UBS. He
resigned as the board grappled with the aftermath of the trading
loss in  Singapore , where members and executives convened for a
meeting scheduled to coincide with the bank’s sponsorship of the
Singapore Formula One Grand Prix.  “That it was possible for one of our traders in London to
inflict a multibillion loss on our bank through unauthorized
trading shocked me,” said Gruebel, a former trader whose career
in finance spanned half a century. The scandal dealt a
“significant setback” to UBS’s efforts to rebuild trust, he
said in the memo.  Gruebel, who joined UBS after about 37 years at rival
Credit Suisse Group AG, is the only person to have served as CEO
of both of the biggest Swiss banks. Brought out of retirement to
rebuild UBS after record losses, he returned the bank to profit
about six months after arriving, resolved a dispute with the
U.S. over banking secrecy that threatened the firm’s existence
and stemmed nine straight quarters of client defections at the
private bank.  More Departures?  Two senior UBS executives speculated on whether other
departures might follow, such as Kengeter, Maureen Miskovic, 54,
who took over as chief risk officer in January, and Thomas Daula, the chief operating officer at the investment bank.
Miskovic previously served as chief risk officer at State Street
Corp. and held the same role at Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
for six years until 2002.  Daula, hired in June 2008 to run risk management at the
investment bank, had been chief risk officer at Morgan Stanley
in 2007 when that bank wrote down $9.4 billion on wrong-way
proprietary trading bets on mortgage-related securities. He
became COO at UBS’s investment bank in January.  Gruebel and Kengeter, 44, tried for the last two years to
rebuild UBS into a top-tier investment bank, hiring more than
1,700 people and bringing in new business heads to replace those
that left or were fired. They also increased risk-taking. Market
turmoil and rising  capital requirements  led them to begin
reversing that strategy even before the trading loss. The
retrenchment is likely to accelerate now.  Less Complex  “In the future, the investment bank will be less complex,
carry less risk and use less capital to produce reliable returns
and contribute more optimally to UBS’s overall objectives.”
Villiger, 70, told reporters two days ago.  UBS will probably scale back credit businesses that haven’t
been very profitable and that will be affected most by the
higher capital requirements under Basel III, said Cormac Leech,
an analyst at Canaccord Genuity Ltd. in  London  who has a
“hold” rating on UBS stock. The equities business, by
contrast, “has a relatively high return so you’d expect them
not to close that down,” Leech said.  UBS will announce further changes to the investment bank in
a presentation to investors scheduled for Nov. 17, Ermotti said
on a conference call with reporters two days ago.  Changing Aspirations  “They’ve got to change the aspirations of the investment
bank and they’ve got to shrink it,” said  Peter Thorne , a
London-based analyst at Helvea SA.  UBS said it may be unprofitable in the third quarter after
the unauthorized trading. The loss, less than two months after
Gruebel said the firm had “one of the best” risk-management
units in the industry, raised questions about the bank’s
controls.  It resulted from trading in Standard & Poor’s 500, DAX and
EuroStoxx index futures over the past three months, UBS said on
Sept. 18. While the positions were taken within the “normal
business flow of a large global equity trading house,” the size
of the risk was hidden by phony trades, UBS said at the time.  Kweku Adoboli, 31, the UBS trader charged with fraud and
false accounting that may have resulted in the loss, remained in
custody after a hearing in London on Sept. 22. He has yet to
enter a plea.  Gruebel’s decision to leave throws into relief the lack of
a  succession plan  at UBS, analysts said. Villiger is scheduled
to step down in 2013 and be replaced as chairman by former
Bundesbank President  Axel Weber , 54, who lacks hands-on
experience running a commercial bank. The trading loss also
reduces the chance Kengeter will ascend to the top job.  ‘In a Vacuum’  Villiger, on the conference call with reporters on Sept.
24, said the board tried unsuccessfully to persuade Gruebel to
remain until the annual shareholders meeting. He will be paid
for a six-month notice period and have no further role at the
bank. His sudden departure suggests a worrying level of
disorder, especially as Chief Financial Officer Tom Naratil took
up his post only three months ago, said Mediobanca’s Wheeler.  “They’ve left themselves in a vacuum,” Wheeler said.
“It’s got a brand new CFO and now they’ve let the CEO walk
away.”  Ermotti, a 51-year-old Swiss national who joined UBS in
April after working at Merrill Lynch & Co. and  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,
will be interim CEO while the board seeks a permanent successor
to Gruebel, the bank said. In his 18 years at Merrill Lynch,
Ermotti oversaw businesses including the global equities
division before leaving in 2003 to join UniCredit,  Italy ’s
biggest bank.  As UniCredit’s investment-banking chief, Ermotti also
supervised global transaction and private banking. Ermotti had
aimed to compete with the world’s top securities firms as
mergers soared and business flourished before the subprime
crisis spread and credit became scarce. He later scaled back the
plan to focus on corporate and investment-banking business in
UniCredit’s home markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at   gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly in Paris at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  