-- 
Tumbling Markets Make Quarterly Sales Harder for Italy, Spain: Euro Credit

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-09-26T08:26:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/tumbling-bonds-make-sales-harder-for-italy-spain-euro-credit.html
Spain  and Italy face a tricky final
quarter among the euro-area nations with most bonds left to sell
as they try to lure investors amid falling prices.  The  European Central Bank  began purchasing securities of
the region’s third- and fourth-largest economies on Aug. 8 after
debt-crisis contagion sent borrowing costs up to euro-era
records. Still, Italy and Spain may have to trim supply, count
on investors to reinvest maturing-bond proceeds and use cash
raised from state-asset sales to see them through the final
three months of the year, strategists at  Barclays Capital  and
UBS AG said.  “The next quarter will be very difficult for Italy and
Spain -- every single auction will be scrutinized,” said Nicola Marinelli, a London-based  fund manager  at Glendevon King Asset
Management, which oversees $153 million. “If the market knows
you have to refinance in this kind of environment, then it is
going to be tough. If there is any hint that the ECB isn’t
standing behind the bonds, then the auctions will be
disasters.”  The extra yield investors demand to hold Spanish 10-year
bonds instead of similar-maturity German bunds, the region’s
benchmark government securities, widened to 418 basis points on
Aug. 5, the most since the euro was introduced in 1999. The
Italian-German 10-year spread reached a record 416 basis points
the same day and the Spanish spread climbed to 374 last week,
the most since before the ECB began buying the debt, while
Italy’s rose to 413.  Planned Sales  Italian 10-year yields were two basis points higher at 5.64
percent today, while Spain’s were little changed at 5.20
percent.  Italy has 27 percent of its planned 226 billion-euro 2011
bond issuance outstanding, while Spain has 30 percent of an
estimated 93.8 billion euros still to auction, according to
Credit Suisse Group AG. The average of the eight euro-region
issuers tracked by the bank is 22 percent. AAA-rated Finland and
 Germany  have 28 percent and 27 percent remaining.  Belgium and  France  are best placed, according to the
Zurich-based bank’s calculations, with 12 percent and 9 percent
left, respectively.  “It’s going to be a very tricky autumn for Italy and
Spain, with yields at an uncomfortable sort of level,” said  Huw Worthington , a fixed-income strategist at Barclays Capital in
London. “They will be able to get the funding away, with the
privatizations and the help of the ECB.”  ‘Nervous’ Markets  He said Italy may cut the amount it needs to fund to the
“bare minimum” 215 billion euros. The nation needs to hold 10
auctions in the fourth quarter, while Spain must hold six,
according to strategists at Commerzbank AG.  “Every time there is an auction, the market tends to
become particularly nervous,” said Gianluca Ziglio, a London-
based interest-rate strategist at  UBS AG. (UBSN)  “In Italy, we have
seen a significant drying out of demand. Their bonds are at risk
of further underperformance.”  Italy has sold more than 44 billion euros of bonds and
bills since Aug. 8. Demand has fallen during that period, with
investors bidding for 1.53 times the amount of securities on
offer at a 7.5 billion-euro auction of one-year bills on Sept.
12, down from 1.94 times at a sale of similar-maturity
securities on Aug. 10. Average yields rose to 4.153 percent from
2.959 percent.  Investors ‘Burned’  The nation sold 3.75 billion euros of a new 10-year
benchmark maturing in March 2022 on Aug. 30 at a price of 98.75,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader Prices. That had fallen to
93.935 by Sept. 23, even as people familiar with the
transactions said the ECB had stepped in to buy the nation’s
securities in the secondary market.  “It’s hard to see that the same investors who have been
burned over the course of the past month will be happy to pick
up fresh paper at these now lower prices,” said  David Schnautz ,
a fixed-income strategist at Commerzbank in  London . “The market
is getting more and more worried that this is an unsustainable
situation. Each time there is more supply, those concerns are
boosted.”  Spain has sold more than 20 billion euros of bonds and
bills since Aug. 8. Borrowing costs and demand rose at a Sept.
20 sale of 4.46 billion euros of 12-month and 18-month bills,
compared with similar sales on Aug. 16.  The nation has 30 billion euros of bonds maturing before
the end of the year, Ziglio said. Redemption money is usually
reinvested in the same market, which should be supportive for
fourth-quarter issuance, he said.  Stake Sales  Spain’s plan to sell stakes in assets including its
airports and lottery should raise about 8 billion euros to 10
billion euros, according to Worthington and “may bring the
nation’s target for the year down a bit so they aren’t under so
much pressure.”  Additionally, the nation’s official agencies, whose bonds
are guaranteed by the government, need to raise more than 10
billion euros in the primary market before the end of the year,
Commerzbank strategists said.  Italy  is scheduled to auction 3.5 billion euros of zero-
coupon bonds maturing in 2013 as well as 11 billion euros of 76-
day and 182-day bills on Sept. 27, 750 million euros of 2019
inflation-linked bonds on Sept. 28 and securities maturing in
2014, 2015, 2021 and 2022 on Sept. 29. Spain plans to sell
three- and six-month bills on Sept. 27.  “Italy and Spain both have to come back to the market at
least twice a month until the end of the year,” Commerzbank’s
Schnautz said. “There will be ongoing pressure for both
countries and there won’t be much time for a break.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  