-- 
Hungary September Economic Sentiment Drops to Worst in 19 Months

-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 
2011-09-25T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/hungary-september-economic-sentiment-drops-to-worst-in-19-months.html
Hungary’s economic-sentiment index
slid for a fifth month in September, dropping to the weakest
since February 2010 as confidence among consumers deteriorated
“significantly,” the GKI research institute said.  The index fell to minus 20.9 from minus 18.9 the previous
month, Budapest-based GKI said in an e-mailed statement. The
business confidence index dropped to minus 11.7 from minus 11.3
in August, while the consumer confidence index declined to minus
47.2 from minus 40.7.  “The declining trend in the sentiment index has been
persisting since spring,” GKI said. The “significant”
worsening of consumer sentiment doesn’t yet reflect the impact
of a stronger Swiss franc, a government plan to allow repayment
of foreign-currency mortgage loans at below-market rates and tax
increases, it added.  A separate survey Sept. 23 by the ZEW Center for European
Economic Research showed central and eastern  Europe ’s economic-
sentiment indicator plunged to the lowest in more than 2 1/2
years in September as the region’s growth outlook dimmed amid
the deepening euro-area debt crisis. Hungary’s economy stalled
in the second quarter, with output unchanged from the first.  The drop in Hungarian business sentiment was mainly because
of a “plunge in construction-sector confidence, which was
already at terribly low levels,” according to GKI. Sentiment in
industry, whose exports pulled the country out of recession,
worsened slightly, especially as regards future output, it said.  The GKI indexes are calculated based on a balance of
positive and negative answers to questions about the outlook for
the economy.  Franc Plan, Taxes  Households are struggling to repay franc-denominated
mortgages, which make up two-thirds of all such loans, after the
advance of the Alpine currency boosted repayments and triggered
defaults. The government’s plan to fix exchange rates below the
market, forcing lenders to absorb the losses, threatens
financial stability, the Hungarian Banking Association has said.  Hungary plans to raise excise taxes on tobacco and diesel
this year and will increase the value-added tax to a European
Union-high of 27 from 2012 to meet its budget-deficit goals.  The economy may expand 1 percent in 2012, according to the
central bank. The government sees 1.5 percent growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  