-- 
Venizelos Vows ‘Whatever It Takes’ to Solve Greece’s Sovereign-Debt Crisis

-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 
2011-09-25T18:56:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/venizelos-vows-whatever-it-takes-to-solve-greece-s-sovereign-debt-crisis.html
Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said his country will do “whatever it takes” to meet
its budget goals and cautioned against making it a “scapegoat”
for global economic woes.  Venizelos, who is also  Greece ’s deputy prime minister,
pledged that the country will always remain a member of the euro
zone, in an effort to dismiss investors’ concern that its debt
crisis may cause it to break away from the currency union.  “Greece wants to make it and will make it,” he said in a
speech today in Washington after attending the annual meetings
of the  International Monetary Fund  and the  World Bank . “We are
ready to take the necessary initiatives at any political cost”
to improve the economy, he said.  Greece has yet to secure a second international bailout
amid questions about whether it can satisfy the terms for aid.
Economists at Citigroup Inc. say they expect the country to
begin restructuring its debt as soon as December. Analysts at
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  predict the euro area will start
contracting in the fourth quarter and that the  European Central
Bank  will cut  interest rates  next month.  “It’s Greece’s final and irrevocable decision to do
whatever it takes to fulfill its obligations towards its
partners, towards the euro area, towards the IMF,” he said.  No ‘Domino Effect’  The size of Greece’s economy and its debt make it unlikely
to be at the “heart” of  Europe ’s problems and incapable of
“causing a domino effect of pan-European dimensions,”
Venizelos said.  “Greece is not the euro area’s central problem, nor can it
be the catalyst” for a financial crisis, he said, noting that
Greece’s debt accounts for 3 percent of the euro area’s public
debt.  Venizelos said that the biggest problem for his country is
the public sector.  “The main problem for my country is the public sector and
the capability of the public administration to offer the
necessary services to our people, to our society with a cheaper,
more clever way,” Venizelos said.  Greece’s top priority is “to organize a smaller, clever
and cheaper state,” he said. “This is our basic need, not
because this is an external obligation but because this is an
internal, existential need.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meera Louis in  Washington  at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Washington at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Costelloe at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net  