-- 
Libyan Opposition Fighters Renew Assault on Qaddafi’s Hometown of Sirte

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   S t e p h e n   a n d   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 
2011-09-25T15:50:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/yemen-violence-picks-up-as-saleh-returns-new-fighting-breaks-out-in-libya.html
Libyan opposition forces renewed
their assault on the coastal city of Sirte, the hometown of
 Muammar Qaddafi , after announcing the creation of their first
joint military union.  At least seven people were killed and 145 wounded yesterday
as fighters attacked loyalist positions in and around the city,
according to the military council in Misrata, which is leading
the operation. Forces from the towns of Hun and Waddan moved
north to join the offensive and Sirte “is now under full siege
from the south,” the council said in a statement.  The joint military group, the Libyan Thwarr Union, was
formed after a two-day meeting in Tripoli and includes
representatives from the country’s disparate armed groups.The
opposition’s National Transitional Council has been trying to
consolidate its control after taking Tripoli in August. It plans
to form an interim cabinet to see  Libya  through to elections for
a new government.  The NTC’s chairman, Mustafa Abdel Jalil, said in a press
conference in Benghazi aired on Al-Jazeera yesterday that an
interim government may be announced as early as this week.  Officials are seeking international assistance to identify
the remains of as many as 1,700 people from a recently
discovered mass grave, Khaled Al Shareef, a spokesman for the
Tripoli military council, told reporters in the capital.  The grave may date from the 1996 massacre at the Abu Salim
prison in Tripoli, Shareef said. Some 13 mass graves have been
found in and around Tripoli since the city fell to rebel forces
last month, Ibrahim Abu Shima, a member of the 17th of February
Revolutionary Committee, said after today’s announcement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Stephen in Libya at 
 cstephen9@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  