-- 
Yuan ‘Fully Convertible’ in 5 Years: Adviser

-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-09-25T19:15:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/yuan-may-become-fully-convertible-in-5-years-pboc-adviser-says.html
China ’s yuan may become a fully
convertible currency in five years, said  Li Daokui , an adviser
to the People’s Bank of China.  As the flexibility of the yuan increases in the coming five
years, China will have more market-determined  interest rates  and
will further open up its capital account, Li said at a forum in
Washington.  If reforms go on smoothly, “the renminbi will be fully
convertible in five years,” he said, referring to the Chinese
currency.  China has accelerated the use of the yuan in international
trade and investment to curb its reliance on the dollar. A fully
convertible currency - so the yuan can be exchanged with other
currencies without restrictions - is one of the criteria the
U.S. and  Europe  are demanding from China as a condition for
allowing it to be part of the International Monetary Fund’s
 currency basket .  Fifty-seven percent of 1,263 global investors, including 58
percent of Asian respondents, said it’s likely the yuan will be
convertible in five years, according to a Bloomberg survey
published in May. Nineteen percent of respondents said it will
become a global reserve currency in that time, with an
additional 31 percent predicting that step within a decade.  China “has no defined timetable for the yuan to be fully
convertible,” Central Bank Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said earlier
this month in  London . “It will be a gradual process,” Zhou
said.  Yuan Gains  China’s yuan has strengthened 3.4 percent against the
dollar this year, the best performance among 25 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. Chinese policy makers said they
would allow more flexibility in the  exchange rate  last June,
after keeping it little changed from July 2008 to help exporters
weather a global financial crisis.  If the yuan appreciates “sharply,” it will attract huge
funds from U.S. and Europe, destabilizing the U.S. economy, Li
said today.  The  U.S. dollar  needs to be kept “reasonably stable” in
the coming few years, Li added. “It serves nobody’s interest to
see a volatile dollar.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in Washington at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  