-- 
Zloty Goes to Worst From First as Growth Seen Eluding Tusk After Election

-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 
2011-09-26T15:35:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-25/zloty-goes-to-worst-from-first-as-crisis-threatens-tusk-budget.html
Poland , the fastest-growing major
eastern European economy, is losing favor with investors as the
euro zone’s widening debt crisis undermines confidence in Prime
Minister Donald Tusk’s ability to cut the budget gap.  The zloty is down 16 percent against the dollar and 9.9
percent versus the euro this quarter for the worst performance
among European currencies, after leading gains in the previous
three months. Investors are betting on bigger swings in the
zloty than any other European developing-nation currency, based
on the implied volatility shown by option prices. Poland’s
credit risk is the highest in 29 months compared with Germany,
Europe’s biggest economy.  “The zloty was not so long ago the darling of the  Europe ,
 Middle East  and Africa region -- these days are gone,”  Benoit Anne , the head of global emerging-market strategy at Societe
Generale SA in  London , said in a phone interview. “It used to
be a very strong fundamental story and you don’t have it
anymore.”  Poland is being punished as slowing economic growth and
Oct. 9 elections spur speculation Tusk may fail to cut the
budget deficit below the ceiling for euro candidates. While
Tusk’s plan rests on the economy expanding 4 percent next year,
the prospect of slowing export orders from Europe caused Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. to lower its growth forecast to 3.8 percent
from 4.2 percent and Bank of America Merrill Lynch to reduce its
prediction to 2.9 percent from 3.7 percent this month.  ‘Rare’ Intervention  The selloff sparked the first intervention from the central
bank to prop up the zloty since it was made a free-floating
currency in April 2000, causing the currency to surge as much as
3.2 percent against the euro on Sept. 23.  Central bank Governor Marek Belka called the intervention a
“rare event” in an interview with PAP newswire yesterday. The
zloty traded less than 0.1 percent stronger at 4.4170 per euro
in Warsaw as of 4:47 p.m. in Warsaw and it retreated 1 percent
to 3.2739 per dollar. The yield on  government bonds  maturing in
October 2021 fell 5 basis point to 5.97 percent.  Belka said last week the zloty was getting out of sync with
Poland’s “healthy fundamentals,” making it harder for policy
makers to control inflation, according to his comments posted on
Narodowy Bank Polski’s Obserwatorfinansowy.pl website.  The zloty’s implied volatility, which show how options
contracts price the risk of further currency fluctuations,
jumped to 27.35 today for one-month zloty versus dollar
contracts, the highest level since May 2009.  Tusk’s Lead Narrows  Tusk is seeking to become the first Polish prime minister
since the collapse of communism in 1989 to win a second term.
Opinion polls show that while his  Civic Platform  remains the
country’s most popular party, its lead has narrowed over the
main opposition Law & Justice. Civic Platform slipped 2
percentage points to 33 percent and Law & Justice rose 4
percentage points to 26 percent, in a Sept. 15-18 survey by TNS
OBOP, a Warsaw-based research company.  Law & Justice in its last stint in government in 2006
halted the sale of state-owned assets, sending revenue to the
lowest level since 1992. Tusk’s Civic Platform raised 22 billion
zloty ($6.5 billion) from the sale of assets last year, the most
in a decade, according to Treasury Ministry’s  website .  “Markets prefer a strong Civic Platform” in government,
Anders Svendsen, an analyst at Nordea Bank AB in Copenhagen
wrote in a report on Sept. 15. “A temporary negative market
reaction is likely in case of a surprise.”  Resilience Through Crisis  Poland’s resilience as the only European Union economy to
avoid a recession after the global credit crisis in 2008 spurred
record purchases of the government’s bonds, with international
investors increasing their holdings by 80.3 billion zloty to
147.2 billion zloty in the two years through July 2011, data on
the  Finance Ministry ’s  website show . The economy expanded an
average 4.4 percent a year since Tusk came to power in 2007,
compared with 0.1 percent in the EU.  Tax cuts and additional public spending to spur the growth
has increased public debt to the highest level in at least two
decades at 52.8 percent of gross domestic product, according to
Polish accounting standards. Breaching 55 percent would trigger
mandatory austerity measures.  Poland’s  budget deficit  has more than quadrupled since 2007
to 7.9 percent of GDP last year, the widest gap since at least
1996, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Tusk’s administration plans to reduce the budget shortfall
to below 3 percent of GDP in 2012. Any deviation from the plans
or reduction in revenue from slowing growth will endanger
Poland’s credit rating, Piotr Kowalski, the head of  Fitch
Ratings  in Warsaw, said in a Sept. 7 interview.  Budget Deficit Plan ‘Realistic’  The government’s plan to trim its deficit to 3 percent is
“realistic,” Finance Minister Jacek Rostowski told reporters
in Wroclaw, western Poland, on Sept. 16. The Finance Ministry
doesn’t comment on moves in the currency “as a matter of
policy,” spokeswoman Malgorzata Brzoza said by phone in
response to questions from Bloomberg on Sept. 23.  The Finance Ministry is in a “denial phase,” Citigroup
Inc. economists Piotr Kalisz and Cezary Chrapek wrote in a
report, after meeting with government officials in Warsaw. The
budget gap will climb to between 4 percent and 4.5 percent of
GDP next year as the economy is unlikely to repeat its “stellar
outperformance,” the analysts wrote on Sept. 13.  The  International Monetary Fund  cut its forecast for Polish
growth to 3.8 percent this year and 3 percent in 2012 in a Sept.
20 report, citing concern an escalation of the euro region’s
debt crisis “would undermine growth in emerging Europe.” The
EU’s largest eastern economy gets 55 percent of its export
revenue from the euro region, according to the statistics office
in Warsaw.  Undervalued  Poland’s currency is 20 percent undervalued and may bounce
back by yearend, Goldman’s Magdalena Polan said on Sept. 14,
when the currency stood at 4.3992 per euro.  “The zloty has weakened on mostly external factors that
don’t have much to do with the fundamentals which are fairly
solid in Poland,” said Polan, a senior Europe economist in
Warsaw. “The zloty will strengthen by the end of this year” as
the government may “step up its sales of foreign currencies in
the  spot market .”  The Finance Ministry stepped in to defend the zloty at the
end of last year by selling EU funds on the market through Bank
Gospodarstwa Krajowego to prevent the zloty’s weakness from
lifting foreign-denominated debt above legal limits. The state-
owned lender also sold euros and dollars for zloty on the market
on Sept. 23 and bought government bonds, said two traders
involved in the transaction who declined to be named because the
information isn’t public.  Credit Risk  Poland is feeling the brunt of the euro crisis partly
because foreign lenders that risk losses on sovereign bonds
including  Greece ’s control 66 percent of the country’s banking
assets, according to the Warsaw-based financial regulator’s
 website . UniCredit SpA in Milan and Frankfurt-based Commerzbank
AG control Poland’s second- and third-largest bank by assets,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Doubts that European policy makers can prevent a Greek
default sent the credit risk on European banks and governments
to all-time highs and pushed the euro to a six-month low against
the dollar this month.  Poland’s credit-default swaps jumped to 202 basis points,
or 2.02 percentage points, over the same contracts for  Germany 
today, the widest gap since April 2009, from as little as 90
basis points in May this year, according to CMA, which is owned
by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a government or
company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  Poland’s default swaps have more than doubled to 311 basis
points from 151 on July 1. The contracts were at a “quite
absurd” level, Deputy Finance Minister  Dominik Radziwill  said
in on Sept. 2, when they traded at 227 basis points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  