-- ’Shrooms May Help Treat Depression: Study
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-01-23T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/-shrooms-may-help-treat-depression-study.html
Psilocybin, the active ingredient in
so-called  magic mushrooms , may help people with depression,
based on two studies that suggest that the drug could have an
enduring effect on patients.  In a study published today in the Proceedings of the
 National Academy of Sciences , 30 healthy volunteers took
psilocybin intravenously and had their brains observed with
magnetic resonance imaging scanners. Activity in the medial
prefrontal cortex, which is hyperactive in depression, was
consistently lowered, according to the research led by  David
Nutt  and Robin Carhart-Harris of  Imperial College London .  A second study, to be published Jan. 26 in the  British
Journal of Psychiatry  and conducted by the same researchers,
found that psilocybin enhanced volunteers’ recollections of
positive personal memories, compared with those who took a
placebo.  “Our findings support the idea that psilocybin facilitates
access to personal memories and emotions,” Carhart-Harris said
in a statement. “This effect needs to be investigated further
but it suggests that used in combination with psychotherapy,
psilocybin might help people recall positive life events and
reverse pessimistic mindsets.”  Timothy Leary  Magic mushrooms, also known as “’shrooms,’’ have been used
for centuries in healing ceremonies and were employed
extensively in psychotherapy in the 1950s, according to Carhart-
Harris. The fungi, favored by former Harvard University
psychologist Timothy Leary, who founded the Harvard Psilocybin
Project, are typically eaten but can also be dried and smoked or
made into a tea.  Psilocybin mushrooms are a schedule I substance in the
U.S., which means the government considers them to have a high
potential for abuse and no legitimate medical purpose, according
to the  National Institute on Drug Abuse .  The findings provide support for further research, and
Carhart-Harris plans to follow up with a controlled study of 60
patients with depression that may start by the end of this year,
he said today in a briefing in  London .  As a treatment option, psilocybin may provide an “enduring
benefit” after a single dosage, compared with expensive anti-
depressant medications that need to be taken daily and have side
effects, Nutt said. No negative effects were observed among the
study participants, Carhart-Harris said.  The authors cite a recent study by  Roland Griffiths  at
 Johns Hopkins University  of Medicine in Baltimore, which found
that depression scores in terminal cancer patients were
significantly decreased six months after treatment with
psilocybin.  The research at Imperial College London was funded by the
Oxford, England-based  Beckley Foundation ; the
 Neuropsychoanalysis Foundation  in  New York ; the  Santa Cruz ,
California-based Multidisciplinary Association for Psychedelic
Studies; and the  Heffter Research Institute  in  Santa Fe ,  New
Mexico .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  