-- A Reformed IMF Deserves More Money, Though Not for Europe: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-01-23T00:04:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/a-reformed-imf-deserves-more-money-though-not-just-to-rescue-europe-view.html
The International Monetary Fund’s
new managing director,  Christine Lagarde , is calling on members
to increase the institution’s lending capacity by as much as
$500 billion. The IMF says it might need to provide $1 trillion
in support to distressed governments over the next few years,
and existing resources aren’t enough.  The governments being asked to pony up will take some
convincing. They suspect a scheme to bail out Europe’s
struggling treasuries -- and think Europe has enough resources
of its own to fix its problems. They are right, but they are
missing a larger point.  The economic crunch of the past four years has shown that
the world needs the global lender of last resort that the IMF
was originally intended to be. This means not just more
financial resources -- a bigger increase, in fact, than Lagarde
is seeking -- but also new rules for access to them and a new
understanding about how the IMF is run. These reforms must be
all of a piece.  In a statement last week, Lagarde linked the request for
new money to “the necessity and urgency of collective efforts
to contain the debt crisis in the euro area,” emphasizing the
weakest reason to strengthen the fund. The U.S. Treasury’s
response was a curt “ Europe  has the capacity to solve its
problems.”  Timothy Geithner , the Treasury secretary, even
warned his international peers that the U.S. has no intention of
seeking additional resources for the IMF. The governor of the
 Bank of Canada  said much the same.  Europe’s Dithering  Europe’s management of its economic crisis has been
lamentable, and the costs of this serial failure of leadership
are a burden on other countries around the world. New support
for bystanders hurt by Europe’s dithering is one thing, but to
ask other countries (including many a lot poorer than  France  or
 Germany ) to come to Europe’s aid adds insult to injury.  Europe has the means to solve its problems, as we have
argued for months. All it lacks is the will.  Nonetheless, the world does need a refurbished IMF. When
the economic crisis first struck, efforts to coordinate national
responses, with the fund at the center, were impressive and
helped to calm nerves. But the momentum has petered out. Ad hoc
cooperation is the order of the day, and the IMF’s role and
purpose are again unclear.  This is costly. The international transmission of economic
stress is the most arresting aspect of the current crisis. A
global body capable of reducing financial risk ahead of the
fact, and coordinating adjustment efforts after the fact, is
what the IMF was always meant to be. Such an institution is
needed more than ever.  Extra financial clout is part of what’s required. Member
governments have moved to strengthen the IMF’s finances. Euro-
area countries, for instance, recently pledged an additional 150
billion euros. As part of her drive for new resources, Lagarde
is said to be pressing  Brazil ,  China ,  India ,  Japan ,  Russia  and
the big oil-exporters for more.  In the most recent midcrisis review of the IMF’s balance
sheet, “quotas” -- the amounts that governments commit to the
IMF as a condition of membership -- were doubled to about $750
billion. Members’ shares were realigned to nudge up the voting
power of the big, fast-growing  developing countries . The next
review is under way. It needs to keep pushing for added
financial capacity.  Money Supply  The reason is that the IMF, unlike a central bank, can’t
print money. To serve more effectively -- albeit in precisely
targeted ways -- as a kind of global central bank, the IMF needs
more resources and more financial flexibility.  For instance, governments should design a procedure that
would allow, in emergencies, for temporary allocations of so-
called “special drawing rights.”  SDRs  are the IMF’s quasi-
currency, which governments can hold alongside national
currencies as international reserves. In effect, the creation of
new SDRs expands the global  money supply . The fund could
exchange its new SDRs for national currencies and lend these out
to distressed governments. This would supplement current
arrangements, which rely on ad hoc swap lines among the U.S.
Federal Reserve and other central banks, with something more
predictable and systematic.  Any drive to expand and empower the IMF must also include
better rules to control members’ access to the IMF’s bank
account. At the moment, access is often too slow. The goal
should be to let governments get help faster, so long as they
have qualified in advance by maintaining a record of good
policy.  Again, progress has been made: The IMF has a “ flexible
credit line ” and a new “ precautionary and liquidity line ” is
being rolled out. Both allow faster access for qualified
countries. But still greater emphasis should be placed on speed.
The key here is surveillance. The IMF already monitors its
members’ policies, but in normal times this oversight is not
taken seriously. It exerts even less pressure on governments
than the more cursory view of, say, a credit rating service.  The traditional cycle, as a result, is forbearance before a
crisis hits, then IMF-sanctioned austerity afterward. Pre-crisis
surveillance needs to be given a higher public profile -- which
will also give it teeth. Countries in good standing, and
innocent bystanders hurt by the mistakes of Europe and other
countries, could then get extra support faster and without
stigma.  It bears repeating that the new IMF director, a European as
custom dictates, is open to suspicion of special pleading.
Reforming the IMF should include ending the practice of putting
a European in charge there and an American in charge of the
 World Bank . No defense of this outrageous arrangement is
possible, or any longer even attempted. Add its termination to
the list.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 