-- AC Milan Rebounds With Win in Serie A; Three Teams Tied Atop Bundesliga
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-01-23T00:38:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/ac-milan-rebounds-with-win-in-serie-a-three-teams-tied-atop-bundesliga.html
AC Milan rebounded from last week’s
defeat to local rival Inter to beat Novara 3-0 and maintain the
pressure on Juventus in Italian soccer’s Serie A. Three teams
are tied atop German’s Bundesliga after  Borussia Dortmund  won 5-
1 at Hamburg.  Zlatan Ibrahimovic scored twice yesterday for Milan and
Robinho also got a goal for the defending champion, which trails
first-place Juventus by one point.  Juventus defeated Atalanta 2-0 two days ago to remain
unbeaten through 19 games. Yesterday, third-place Udinese won 2-
1 against Catania, while  Inter Milan  beat Lazio 2-1 to move
above the Rome club into fourth spot.  Roma’s Francesco Totti scored twice in a 5-1 win over
Cesena on Jan. 21 to move to 211 top-flight league goals for the
club, a record for a player with a single team in Serie A.  Robert Lewandowski and Jakub Blaszczykowski each got two
goals as Dortmund thrashed Hamburg yesterday, with Kevin
Grosskreutz scoring the other goal for last season’s champion.  Dortmund now only trails first-place  Bayern Munich  on goal
difference, with Schalke in third. Two days ago, Bayern lost 3-1
at Borussia Moenchengladbach Jan. 20, while Schalke beat
Stuttgart 3-1 the next day. Moenchengladbach is one point back.  Bayer Leverkusen  defeated Mainz 3-2 in yesterday’s other
match.  Ronaldo Leads Real  Real Madrid restored its five-point lead over Barcelona in
Spain’s La Liga with a 4-1 victory against Athletic Bilbao,
after its archrival beat Malaga by the same scoreline.  Cristiano Ronaldo scored two penalty kicks for Jose Mourinho’s team, which has finished second to Barcelona the past
three seasons. Three goals from  Lionel Messi  and a strike by
 Alexis Sanchez  gave Barcelona the victory.  Third-place Valencia sits nine points behind Barcelona
after being held to a 1-1 tie at Osasuna yesterday.  The top two teams in Dutch soccer’s Eredivisie were both
held to 1-1 draws yesterday, AZ Alkmaar at home against Ajax,
and  PSV Eindhoven  at FC Utrecht. AZ has a one-point lead.  FC Twente  is now only two points further back. It beat RKC
Waalwijk 5-0 two days ago in Steve McClaren’s first league match
in charge after returning for a second spell as coach.  Ligue 1 took a break this weekend for the round of 32 in
the French Cup.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in  London  at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 