-- Advanced Cell Technology Increases Most in Year on Stem Cell Study of Eyes
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-01-23T21:13:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/advanced-cell-technology-increases-most-in-year-on-stem-cell-study-of-eyes.html
Advanced Cell Technology Inc. (ACTC) , the
second company to win permission from the U.S. to test embryonic
stem cells in people, rose the most in a year after it reported
the cells improved vision in two patients.  The first published study on the technology in humans
describes one woman who was able to distinguish fingers, and
another who can now read her watch and see colors. The cells,
after being injected into their eyes, weren’t rejected and
didn’t cause tumors or other side effects after four months, the
researchers reported.  Advanced Cell Technology gained 23 percent to 18 cents at
the close in  New York , in the biggest increase since December
2010. The shares had declined 61 percent in 2011 after  Geron
Corp. (GERN) , the  Menlo Park , California-based company that started the
first U.S.-approved trial with embryonic stem cells, said it was
abandoning its program.  “It’s the only active clinical trial and the only to
actively report the results,” said Anthony Atala, a professor
at the Wake Forest Institute for Regenerative Medicine in  North
Carolina , who wasn’t involved in the study. “If these therapies
advance, we hope to be able to see these technologies
transferred to other therapies, and also for the use of other
kinds of stem cells.”  Embryonic stem cells, which can change into any other cell
in the human body, are controversial because they are taken from
human embryos. Chief Scientific Officer Robert Lanza, of
Marlborough, Massachusetts-based Advanced Cell, said what works
with embryonic cells probably will work with  stem cells  that are
produced in other ways.  Advanced Cell treated two legally blind patients, one with
dry age-related macular degeneration and one with Stargardt’s
macular dystrophy. Both patients have requested treatment in
their other eye, Lanza said.  Preliminary results from the trial were published in The
Lancet, a London-based medical journal.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  