-- Lagarde Urges Larger European Rescue Fund, Recommends Eurobonds
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-01-23T11:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/lagarde-urges-larger-european-rescue-fund-recommends-eurobonds.html
International Monetary Fund Managing
Director  Christine Lagarde  urged European policy makers to
increase their bailout fund and share fiscal risks, including
through a joint bond, to prevent the region’s debt turmoil from
becoming a 1930s-style worldwide depression.  “We need a larger firewall,” Lagarde said in prepared
remarks for a speech in Berlin today. “Without it, countries
like Italy and  Spain , that are fundamentally able to repay their
debts, could potentially be forced into a solvency crisis by
abnormal financing costs.”  Lagarde’s comments reflect concern from the rest of the
world that Europe hasn’t done enough to quell a fiscal crisis
now in its third year, at a time when the IMF co-finances loans
to Greece, Ireland and  Portugal . In their latest effort to
address the turmoil, European finance ministers meet in Brussels
today to discuss new budget rules, a financial firewall to
protect indebted states and a Greek debt swap.  The IMF, which sees a potential financing need of $1
trillion globally in coming years, is seeking as much as $500
billion in new lending resources to play its part, Lagarde said.
A day before the fund releases revised growth forecasts tomorrow
that she said were lowered for most parts of the world, she
called on all countries to make 2012 “a year of healing.”  Lagarde's proposals to expand the rescue fund and share
fiscal risks have been rejected previously by  Germany , the biggest  
euro economy.  ‘Help Itself’  The U.S. needs to reduce household and government debt,
while  China  can “help itself and the global economy” by
continuing to shift toward policies that boost consumption,
Lagarde said. In  Japan , “there is no way to avoid a credible”
plan to reduce public debt, she said.  “What we must all understand is that this is a defining
moment,” said Lagarde, a former French finance minister who
took the helm of the Washington-based institution in July. “It
is not about saving any one country or region. It is about
saving the world from a downward economic spiral.”  Lagarde, 56, said “substantial real resources” should be
added to  Europe ’s firepower by folding its temporary rescue fund
into the new, permanent European Stability Mechanism, or ESM,
whose size should be increased. A “clear and credible
timetable” to make it operational is also needed, she said.  Italian 10-year note yields jumped by 229 basis points last
year, or 2.29 percentage points, and the region’s shared
currency fell for a second year against the  U.S. dollar  as
investor concern increased about governments’ ability to meet
their obligations.  Stability Program  European governments have redoubled efforts to set up the
500 billion euro ($645 billion) ESM by July, a year ahead of
schedule, after a credit-rating downgrade raised concerns over
the strength of the temporary aid fund created at the outset of
the crisis.  A facility within the region should also have the power to
take stakes directly in banks to help end a “vicious cycle”
between banks and sovereigns, Lagarde told the German Council on
Foreign Relations.  Policy makers should consider fiscal risk-sharing as a way
to deepen the region’s integration, Lagarde said. Such a move
would “would allow for common support before economic
dislocation in one country develops into a costly fiscal and
financial crisis for the entire euro area,” she said.  Lagarde cited “euro-area bonds or bills” and a debt-
redemption fund among available options.  “Political agreement on a joint bond to underpin risk-
sharing would help convince markets of the future viability of
European economic and monetary union,” she said.  ECB’s Policies  To stem the debt crisis in the 17-nation euro region,
Lagarde also called on the  European Central Bank (EURR002W)  to make
“additional and timely monetary easing” as inflation and
growth slow. She said its actions to provide “the necessary
liquidity support to stabilize bank funding and sovereign debt
markets” would be “essential.”  The Frankfurt-based ECB has bought 217 billion euros of
bonds from distressed member countries since May 2010 and last
month issued 489 billion euros in unlimited three-year loans to
euro-region banks.  The  World Bank  last week predicted the euro-area’s economy
would contract 0.3 percent this year.  “Although the economic outlook remains deeply worrisome,
there is a way out,” Lagarde said. “Now the world must find
the political will to do what it knows must be done.”  Not all European countries need to quickly tighten public
finances, Lagarde said, mentioning a “large core” where
reducing the deficit can be more gradual.  “Those with fiscal space should support the common effort
by reconsidering the pace of adjustment planned for this year,”
she said, just as European governments negotiating a new fiscal
treaty are hewing to an agenda championed by German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  that puts stiffer rules on deficit control.  -- Editors: Brendan Murray, Patrick Harrington  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  