-- Thailand May Add to Interest Rate Cuts as Growth Risks Loom After Floods
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a   a n d   M i c h a e l   M u n o z
-- 2012-01-24T01:59:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/thailand-may-add-to-rate-interest-cuts-as-growth-risks-loom-after-floods.html
Thailand  may cut  interest rates  for
the second consecutive meeting to help spur a recovery from the
worst floods in almost 70 years and as a deteriorating global
economy threatens growth.  The Bank of Thailand  will trim its  benchmark one-day bond
repurchase rate  by a quarter of a percentage point to 3 percent,
according to all 15 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News ahead
of a decision due at 2:30 p.m. in Bangkok tomorrow. The country
cut its key rate for the first time in more than two years at
the previous meeting on Nov. 30.  Thailand may join the  Philippines  and Indonesia in easing
monetary policy after the World Bank said last week that a
recession in the euro region threatens to exacerbate a slowdown
in  emerging markets . Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra has
pledged to spend 350 billion baht ($11.1 billion) on
infrastructure to prevent a repeat of floods that caused the
worst slump in industrial output in more than 10 years.  “The risks to growth have outpaced the threat of
inflation, leaving the door open for the central bank to cut the
rate,” said  Usara Wilaipich , an economist at Standard Chartered
Pcl in Bangkok, who expects the Bank of Thailand to reduce its
benchmark rate by half a percentage point this year.  The floods shuttered more than 16,000 factories, reducing
Thailand’s economic growth last year to about 1.5 percent,
compared with estimates of as high as 4.5 percent before the
deluge, Finance Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong said last week.  “Thailand can’t afford a repeat of the floods,” Kittiratt
said yesterday. “No one will give us a second chance.”  Honda, Western Digital  Even though the floodwaters receded in December,  Western
Digital Corp. (WDC)  won’t resume full production in Thailand until
early in the second half, Chief Executive Officer John Coyne
said Jan. 16 in Bangkok. Honda Motor Co. will need to spend more
than 50 billion yen ($649 million) to renovate damaged
factories, the Nikkei newspaper reported on Jan. 15.  Thailand’s economy, the biggest in  Southeast Asia  after
Indonesia, may have contracted 5 percent last quarter from a
year earlier, according to the  finance ministry .  Exports (THCTEXPY)  shrank
2 percent in December, compared with a 12.4 percent slide a
month earlier, the commerce ministry said Jan. 20.  Bank of Thailand Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said Dec.
6 the economy will fully recover from the floods by the third
quarter, and the central bank “has room” to further ease
monetary policy in the event that recovery falters.  Global Slowdown  The  World Bank  cut its global growth forecast by the most
in three years last week, predicting the world economy will grow
2.5 percent this year, down from a June estimate of 3.6 percent.
Growth in Asian economies is faltering as  Europe ’s debt woes
hurt the region’s exports. China reported last week its weakest
expansion in 10 quarters.  “It’s quite clear that the global economy and the European
economy will be in worse shape than many had expected and that
will hurt our exports,” said former Deputy Governor  Bandid
Nijathaworn . “So, it’s possible that monetary policy will be
eased further to help support the economy amid high global
uncertainties.”  The Philippines cut interest rates last week for the first
time since July 2009 and Bank  Indonesia  widened the lower range
of its interbank lending rate in a de facto easing of monetary
policy.  New Zealand’s central bank will leave the official cash
rate at a record low 2.5 percent on Jan. 26, according to all 14
economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News.  Governor Alan Bollard last month lowered his forecast for
economic growth in the year ending March 31, and signaled he
wasn’t likely to raise borrowing costs until mid-2012. The case
for no change was bolstered by a report last week that showed
consumer prices unexpectedly fell 0.3 percent in the fourth
quarter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Munoz in  Hong Kong  at 
 mjmunoz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  