-- Airbus Sees $1 Million Ohio Investment as Step in U.S. Expansion
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2012-01-23T19:49:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/airbus-sees-1-million-ohio-investment-as-step-in-u-s-expansion.html
Airbus SAS (EAD) ’s $1 million investment
in  Ohio  for research into nano-materials and carbon fibers
builds on the European planemaker’s effort to expand in the
U.S., the company’s  North America  chairman said.  “It’s no secret we’re trying to get more and more sourcing
out of the U.S.,” Allan McArtor said today by telephone from
Airbus Americas headquarters in Herndon, Virginia. “With the
dollar-euro exchange rate and innovation and aerospace
leadership in the U.S., our supply base will grow in America.”  Airbus’s initial Ohio investment will be “seed money” for
six companies to “help develop nanotechnologies for carbon-
fiber structure materials,” he said. Spending may grow as
technologies are adopted for commercial use, he said.  Funding will go to the companies and the Dayton-based
National Composite Center over five years for technologies for
future planes, McArtor said. He said Toulouse, France-based
Airbus spends about $10 billion annually on U.S. suppliers and
is seeking to double that over the next 10 to 15 years.  The Ohio companies receiving research funds are Angstron
Materials Inc. of Dayton;  GrafTech International Ltd. (GTI)  of Parma;
NanoSperse of Kettering; Renegade Materials Corp. of Miamisburg;
University of Dayton Research Institute; and Zyvex Technologies
of Columbus, McArtor said.  Future composite materials for use in aviation will be
fashioned without being cooked in huge autoclaves, as they are
now, saving costs and time, McArtor said.  McArtor said he would “dearly love” to have a final-
assembly line in the U.S., though there are no such plans in
place at the moment. Airbus now has final-assembly facilities in
Toulouse, Hamburg, and Tianjin,  China .  Airbus is the world’s largest commercial planemaker, and is
a unit of Paris- and Munich-based  European Aeronautic Defence &
Space Co.   To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  