-- Akamai CEO Sagan Seeks Acquisitions as Economic Woes Hold Back Growth
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-01-24T18:14:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/akamai-seeks-acquisitions-as-economic-woes-hold-back-growth.html
Akamai Technologies Inc. (AKAM) , operator
of a server network that lets businesses such as  Apple Inc. (APPL) 
speed up data delivery, plans to make selective acquisitions as
the economic slowdown will restrict its growth this year.  The company, whose clients include airline Cathay Pacific
Airways Ltd., video-streaming service Netflix Inc. and music
channel  MTV , will “opportunistically fill holes” in its
portfolio, Chief Executive Officer Paul Sagan said yesterday in
an interview in Munich. “I’m telling our people ‘here’s our
product line-up, if you can fill these gaps better on a buy than
on a build model, that’s what we should do.’”  Akamai, based in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , is only
“cautiously optimistic” for 2012 and the company should be
able to “grow even through tough times,” Sagan said. Sales may
 climb 11 percent  to $1.28 billion this year after increasing 12
percent in 2011, according to the average estimate in a
Bloomberg survey among 22 analysts. The company plans to expand
sales on average by 15 percent to 20 percent each year to reach
$5 billion by the end of the decade, Sagan said.  The shares fell as much as 1.5 percent in  New York  and was
down 0.8 percent to $31.46 as of 1:11 p.m. local time. They have
fallen about 36 percent in the past year, cutting the company’s
market value to $5.6 billion.  Akamai’s technology is helping to speed up data traffic as
more consumers and businesses surf the Web and download
documents and music. Despite the global economic slowdown,
Akamai will this year benefit from increased awareness of online
security among customers, more mobile devices that can surf the
Web, and demand for video content, Sagan said.  Economic Woes  The  World Bank  cut its global growth forecast last week by
the most in three years, saying that a recession in the euro
region threatens to exacerbate a slowdown in  emerging markets 
such as India and  Mexico . The world economy will grow 2.5
percent this year, down from a June estimate of 3.6 percent, the
Washington-based institution said.  Akamai in December bought startup competitor Cotendo Inc.
for about $268 million in cash, to boost its acceleration
technologies for its Web-based cloud computing system. The
purchase was Akamai’s second largest after the $2.19 billion
acquisition of InterVU Inc. in 2000, according to Bloomberg
data.  The stock declined 1 percent to $31.72 yesterday in Nasdaq
trading in New York. Akamai has dropped 36 percent in the last
12 months, valuing the company at $5.7 billion.  Akamai itself was the target of speculation about a
takeover by  Google Inc. (GOOG)  last year. Google said in October that
it has no plans to acquire the company.  Ericsson Partnership  Akamai plans to make half of its revenue outside  North
America  at some point, Sagan said, without providing a
timeframe. In 2010, the company generated 72 percent of sales
from the U.S., according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We have a very strong balance sheet, no debt, very strong
 cash flow  and we could probably raise money if we found
something,” Sagan said. The company won’t expand into certain
markets such as consulting or Web hosting where it would compete
with clients, he said.  Akamai, which last year entered a partnership with mobile-
phone network maker  Ericsson AB (ERICB)  to develop technology that will
let companies accelerate access to their online content, is on
track to implement that project and will present results this
year, Sagan said. Customers, especially in the financial sector,
are willing to pay for a guaranteed performance boost, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Munich, Germany at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  