-- Halliburton Fourth-Quarter Net Grows as U.S. Hydraulic Fracturing Surges
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2012-01-23T21:47:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/halliburton-profit-grows-as-u-s-fracking-surges.html
Halliburton Co. (HAL) , the world’s largest
provider of hydraulic-fracturing services, expects its North
America operating margins to decline further after falling in
the fourth quarter as companies cut natural-gas drilling.  Halliburton, based in Houston, reported a profit margin of
27.2 percent for its largest region, down from 29 percent in the
past two quarters, according to a statement today. The company
expects another 1 percentage point decline in the regional
margin this quarter as it moves eight hydraulic fracturing crews
from gas basins to oil plays, Chief Financial Officer Mark McCollum told analysts today on a conference call.  “Cost inflation continues to have a negative impact,”
Chief Executive Officer Dave Lesar said on the call. “There is
a delay between vendor price increases and when we were able to
pass through these increases to our customers. In the natural-
gas basins, this is becoming more difficult.”  Halliburton helps companies drill for oil and gas,
including using fracking, which blasts water mixed with sand and
chemicals underground to free trapped hydrocarbons from shale
formations. Increased use of fracking has boosted U.S.
production, causing gas prices to hit a 10-year low and
prompting companies including Chesapeake Energy Corp. and EQT
Corp. to cut drilling operations.  Halliburton fell 2.1 percent to $35.44 at the close in  New
York .  Concern About Oversupply  “There is concern out there we’re going to get into an
oversupply in the near future,”  Brian Youngberg, an analyst at
 Edward Jones  in  St. Louis , who rates the shares a “hold” and
owns none, said in a telephone interview. “That could
potentially put a little bit of a dent in the margins for all
the companies.”  Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI) , which provides North American fracking
services, dropped 3.2 percent to $47.73 and  Weatherford
International Ltd. (WFT)  dropped 0.7 percent to $16.42. Chesapeake
Energy, the second-largest U.S. gas producer, said today it will
idle rigs and cut production.  It’s “ridiculous” to think that margins in the  North
America  region, which excludes  Mexico , will “collapse,” Lesar
said on the call.  Halliburton expects to increase revenue and operating
income in North America by the end of 2012, Lesar said. Margins
for the company’s Eastern Hemisphere business are expected to be
in the “mid to high teens” at the end of this year, he said.  Net Income Rise  Net income rose 50 percent to $906 million, or 98 cents a
share, from $605 million, or 66 cents, a year earlier, according
to the statement. Excluding a $15 million charge related to an
unspecified environmental matter, the company beat by 1 cent the
average of 33 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales
climbed 37 percent to $7.1 billion.  Halliburton widened its lead last year as the largest
fracking-service company by boosting the amount of its pumping
equipment 37 percent to 2.6 million horsepower in North America,
according to Tulsa, Oklahoma-based  Spears & Associates Inc.   To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston  at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  