-- Angola’s Sonangol, Banks Interested in Portuguese Companies
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-01-23T21:21:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/angola-s-sonangol-banks-interested-in-portuguese-companies.html
Angola’s state-owned oil company
Sonangol EP and some of the African country’s banks are
interested in stakes in  Portuguese companies , Angolan Economy
Minister Abraao Gourgel said.  Angolan companies and investors have been increasing their
stakes in companies in  Portugal , which last year became the
third euro-region country to request a bailout from the European
Union and the  International Monetary Fund .  Sonangol owned 11.6 percent of  Banco Comercial Portugues (BCP) ,
Portugal’s second-biggest publicly traded bank in terms of
market value, as of last June. Isabel dos Santos, daughter of
Angolan President Jose Eduardo dos Santos, owned 10 percent of
Portugal’s  Banco BPI SA (BPI)  and 10 percent of  Zon Multimedia SGPS SA (ZON) 
, Portugal’s biggest cable television operator.  Angola (OPCRANGO)  is
 Africa ’s second-biggest oil producer.  “There will also be some private Angolan investors
interested in Portugal, but I don’t think they are aiming for
big stakes in Portuguese groups,” Gourgel said today at a press
conference in Lisbon.  Angola won’t seek a new loan from the IMF after it secures
the last installment of a $1.4 billion loan from the Washington-
based lender, said Gourgel.  “We don’t intend to resort to a new line of credit,” he
said. “To be honest, what interested the Angolan government
was, without a doubt, the technical support for reforms  Angola 
had started to carry out.”  Positive Evaluation  A team of IMF officials ended a visit to Angola last week
to assess the final disbursement of the loan. The preliminary
evaluation was positive, Angola’s state-owned news agency Angop
reported on Jan. 20, citing Finance Minister Carlos Alberto
Lopes. Angola plans to continue receiving technical support from
IMF in the future, Gourgel said.  The country still lacks the financial ability to create a
sovereign wealth fund to invest Angola’s oil money abroad. The
government has decided to create smaller funds to invest in the
energy sector and in building new infrastructure following a 27-
year civil war that ended in 2002, Gourgel said.  “The investment in a sovereign wealth fund requires more
resources than those we currently possess,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  