-- LanzaTech Gets Malaysia Investors for Waste Gas-to-Fuel Process
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2012-01-23T05:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/lanzatech-gets-malaysia-investors-for-waste-gas-to-fuel-process.html
LanzaTech NZ Ltd., a closely held
developer of transportation fuels and chemicals from waste
industrial gases, completed its third venture funding round and
may begin preparations for an initial share sale later this
year, according to chief executive officer Jennifer Holmgren.  The company’s $55.8 million Series C financing round was
led by the Malaysian Life Sciences Capital Fund LP, and proceeds
will fund development of new chemicals, LanzaTech said in an e-
mailed statement. The chemicals it’s working on can be used to
make rubber, paints and other products or processed into
hydrocarbon fuels such as gasoline, diesel and jet fuel,
Holmgren said in a telephone interview.  LanzaTech has joint ventures with Baosteel Group Corp.,
 China ’s largest steel manufacturer, and  Shougang Group , the
fourth-largest, to develop projects at their mills to make
ethanol from flue gases. Baosteel funded a project at one of its
mills near  Shanghai  to produce 100,000 gallons a year, and
LanzaTech may consider an IPO after it enters operation later
this year, according to Holmgren.  “It’s reasonable to say that we’re looking at the
market,” Holmgren said. “I think we’ll be in a very good
position later on this year after the demo proves out to really
start thinking about when we want to IPO,” she said.  Indian Oil Corp.,  LCY Chemical Corp. (1704) ,  Posco (005490) , Mitsui & Co.,
and  Harsco Corp. (HSC)  are also exploring the use of LanzaTech’s
technology, according to Holmgren. The company’s  technology  uses
proprietary microorganisms to convert carbon monoxide-containing
gases from  steel mills , oil refineries and chemical plants into
fuels and chemicals.  The venture unit of  Malaysia ’s state oil company, Petroliam
Nasional Bhd, and Dialog Group Bhd also were new investors in
the funding round and were jointed by existing backers Khosla
Ventures, Qiming Venture Partners LP, and K1W1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  