-- Apache to Buy Cordillera Energy Partners for $2.85 Billion
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n   a n d   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2012-01-23T21:34:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/apache-agrees-to-pay-2-85-billion-for-cordillera-energy-to-boost-reserves.html
Apache Corp. (APA)  agreed to buy closely
held Cordillera Energy Partners III LLC for $2.85 billion in
cash and stock, adding to  Oklahoma  and Texas operations that use
hydraulic fracturing to get oil and natural gas.  The acquisition will more than double Apache’s holdings in
the Anadarko basin and add estimated proved reserves of 71.5
million barrels of oil equivalent, the Houston-based company
said in a statement today. The purchase will be paid for with
$2.25 billion in cash and $600 million of stock and includes
18,000 barrels a day of existing production.  The transaction is “fair at best” given that about half
of the output from the acreage is gas,  Leo Mariani , an Austin,
Texas-based analyst at  RBC Capital Markets , said in a telephone
interview. “The ultimate price is $6,000 an acre and  gas prices 
need to go up in the next few years for them to make money on
this.”  Gas prices have dropped to 10-year lows as the increased
use of horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing, or
fracking, has boosted U.S. production. Fields that also produce
crude and natural gas liquids, including propane, are more
valuable since those fuels are tied to  oil prices , which rose
8.2 percent in  New York  last year.  Apache, which has been drilling in the Anadarko basin for
more than 50 years, will have expanded ability to produce oil
and liquids from horizontal drilling by adding Cordillera’s
acreage. The company, which had no horizontal wells in the area
before 2009, now gets more than half of its daily output in that
region from the drilling method used with fracking, the
injection of water, sand and chemicals to release oil and gas.  Granite Wash  Cordillera, whose principal shareholder is EnCap
Investments LP, holds 254,000 net acres in the Granite Wash,
Tonkawa, Cleveland and Marmaton areas of western Oklahoma and
 Texas . The Denver-based company’s output is 47 percent gas, 30
percent oil and 23 percent gas liquids, according to an Apache
slide presentation. Cordillera got about 80 percent of its
revenue from selling its oil and liquids.  “It obviously expands their footprint in the Granite Wash,
which is a hot play,” said  Fadel Gheit , an analyst at
Oppenheimer & Co. in New York who has an “outperform” rating
on Apache shares and owns none.  The value of the acquisition will be the liquids
production, given that oil futures are trading close to $100 a
barrel, Gheit said in a telephone interview. Apache has a good
track record of purchases, he said.  Biggest Since BP  The transaction, expected to close by April 30, will add to
earnings and  cash flow  this year, while the development drilling
program will be self-funding beginning in 2013, Apache said. The
purchase is Apache’s largest since buying assets from BP Plc in
2010.  Apache  rose  1.6 percent to $98.38 at the close in New York.
The shares, which declined 24 percent last year, have gained 8.6
percent in 2012.  Apache, which has a market value of about $37.8 billion,
produced 752,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day in the quarter
ending in September. It will borrow to finance the cash portion
of the acquisition.  Cordillera III was formed in March 2007 by George Solich.
Previous iterations of the company have sold assets to Patina
Oil and Gas Corp., Forest Oil Corp., Merit Energy and Devon
Energy Corp., according to its  website .  Apache was advised on the deal by Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
and Tudor Pickering Holt & Co. Jefferies & Co. and JPMorgan
Chase & Co. were Cordillera’s financial advisers and Andrews
Kurth LLP and Thompson & Knight LLP were its legal advisers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  