-- Maruti Posts Smallest Profit Since 2004 on Strikes, Demand Slum
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2012-01-23T08:44:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/maruti-posts-smallest-profit-since-2004-on-strikes-demand-slum.html
Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) , India’s
biggest carmaker, posted an 64 percent drop in third-quarter
profit after a strike by workers and lower demand for its models
damped sales.  Net income  at  Suzuki Motor Corp. (7269) ’s Indian unit fell to 2.06
billion rupees ($41 million) in the three months ended Dec. 31,
from 5.65 billion rupees a year earlier, the New Delhi-based
company said in a statement today. The profit is the smallest
since the quarter ended September 2004 and less than the 2.17
billion-rupee median of 32  analyst estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Demand for passenger cars in the world’s second-most
populous country slowed after the central bank raised  interest
rates  13 times since the start of 2010 to rein in inflation,
damping demand for cars in a country where about 80 percent of
purchases are funded by loans. Maruti said Jan. 2 sales in the
April to December period slid 17 percent to 773,361 units after
a workers strike in October disrupted output.  “A few bad things combined together for Maruti in the
quarter, including the labor trouble and the slowdown in the
industry,” Basudeb Banerjee, an analyst with Quant Broking Pvt.
in Mumbai, said before the earnings announcement. “Going
forward, with the additional supply of diesel engines from Fiat,
and the new Ertiga and DZire coming on sale, things may get
better for Maruti in the next financial year.”  New Models  Maruti, which sells almost half the cars in the country,
fell 1.1 percent to 1,090.95 rupees as of 2:01 p.m. in Mumbai
trading. The shares have climbed 18 percent this year, compared
with the 8.4 percent gain in the BSE  India  Sensitive Index.  Maruti will begin selling the Ertiga van from April, and a
new version of its DZire sedan starting next month, Mayank Pareek, the company’s sales head said this month.  India’s automakers group cut its estimate for annual local
passenger-car sales this month, projecting deliveries may not
grow for the first time in nine years after higher borrowing and
fuel costs sapped demand. The lifting of government curbs sent
gasoline prices to a record, pushing demand toward diesel cars.  The  Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers , on Jan. 10,
lowered the growth projection for the 12 months ending March 31
to 0 percent to 2 percent, the third time it cut its estimate
this fiscal year. Annual sales fell in the period ended March
2003, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Labor Strike  In October, a labor strike over the formation of a union at
Maruti’s factory in Manesar, near  New Delhi , halted output of
Swift compact cars. Workers also struck at parts maker Suzuki
Powertrain India Ltd., causing production to be halted at
Maruti’s factory in Gurgaon, also near the capital. The strike
ended after an agreement was reached between the management,
workers and the state government. The strike cost the company
over 40,000 units of production, Maruti said.  The increase in gasoline prices has spurred demand for
diesel powered cars. Maruti said in October that as many as 90
percent of the orders for the new Swift hatchback have been for
the diesel variant causing waiting lists on the car. The company
said on Jan. 18 it reached agreement with Fiat SpA’s Indian unit
for the supply of 100,000  diesel engines  a year for three years,
according to an e-mailed statement.  Suzuki Motor owns 54 percent of Maruti.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net . 