-- Australian, N.Z. Dollars Rally to 12-Week Highs as U.S. Growth Buoys Risk
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-01-23T17:31:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/australian-dollar-trades-near-a-12-week-high-on-u-s-recovery-indications.html
The Australian and  New Zealand 
dollars rose to 12-week highs before U.S. reports this week
forecast to show economic growth is accelerating, encouraging
demand for higher-yielding assets.  The South Pacific nations’ currencies also increased on
speculation European Union finance ministers meeting today in
Brussels will make progress on measures to help resolve the
region’s sovereign-debt crisis. French Finance Minister  Francois Baroin  said negotiations between  Greece  and its private
creditors are making progress.  “Any positive economic outcomes in the U.S. would
represent a continuation of the trend in recent weeks and
months, and that would certainly be beneficial for risky
currencies,” said Andrew Salter, a strategist at Australia &
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in Sydney.  Australia ’s dollar appreciated 0.4 percent to $1.0526 at
12:26 p.m. New York time after advancing to $1.0573, the highest
level since Oct. 31. New Zealand’s dollar rose 0.4 percent to
80.97 U.S. cents after touching 81.42, also the highest level
since Oct. 31.  The MSCI World Index of stocks rose 0.3 percent following a
2.9 percent gain last week.  U.S. gross domestic product increased at a 3 percent annual
rate in the fourth quarter, according to the median forecast of
76 economists in a Bloomberg News survey before the Commerce
Department’s Jan. 27 report. That compares with a 1.8 percent
advance in the previous three-month period. Other reports this
week may show gains in new-home sales and durable goods.  Producer Prices  Prices paid by Australian producers rose at a slower pace
than economists forecast last quarter as cheaper agriculture
costs partly offset more expensive industrial machinery.  The  producer price index  rose 0.3 percent after an increase
of 0.6 percent in the previous quarter, the Bureau of Statistics
said in Sydney today. The median estimate of economists in a
Bloomberg News survey was for a 0.4 percent increase.  A Credit Suisse Group AG  index  based on swaps indicates an
84 percent chance that the  Reserve Bank  of Australia will lower
rates by 25 basis points, or 0.25 percentage point, when policy
makers convene Feb. 7. The benchmark rate is 4.25 percent
following quarter-point reductions at each of the central bank’s
two previous meetings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  