-- Slowing Wholesale Costs Boost Australia Interest Rate-Cut Scope: Economy
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-01-23T02:49:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/australian-producer-prices-advanced-0-3-last-quarter-less-than-forecast.html
Prices paid by Australian producers,
one of two gauges of cost pressures in the economy released this
week, decelerated for a third straight quarter, boosting scope
for the central bank to lower borrowing costs next month.  The  producer price index  advanced 0.3 percent in the
October-to-December period from the prior quarter, when it
gained 0.6 percent, the Bureau of Statistics said in Sydney
today. That was less than the median estimate of 20 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News for a 0.4 percent increase.  Reserve Bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  cut  interest rates  last
quarter at back-to-back meetings as  Europe ’s sovereign debt
crisis clouds prospects for global growth. Australian government
data on Jan. 25 is predicted by economists to show inflation
slowed last quarter to the weakest pace since the height of the
global financial crisis, increasing the chance of a third
straight policy meeting of cuts.  Today’s report “adds to the expectation that there’s going
to be a soft inflation outcome,” said  Annette Beacher , head of
Asia-Pacific research at TD Securities Inc. in  Singapore . A Feb.
7 rate cut is “locked and loaded,” she said.  The Australian dollar was little changed after the producer
prices report. The so-called Aussie fetched $1.0470 at 1:15 p.m.
in Sydney from $1.0464 before the release and $1.0484 on Jan. 20
in  New York .  RBA’s Easing  The RBA’s Nov. 1 and Dec. 6 reductions were spurred by
concern about the fallout from Europe’s financial problems.  Asian stocks swung between gains and losses as increasing
home sales in the U.S. added to signs the world’s biggest
economy is recovering, overshadowing uncertainties over
continuing debt negotiations in  Greece .  BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s biggest mining company and
Australia’s largest oil producer, lost 0.8 percent in Sydney
after crude oil and metal futures dropped.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index was little changed at 120.80 at
10:15 a.m. in  Tokyo .  In Europe today, a report may show French business
confidence ended a six-month skid this month, according to the
median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. A
report on  consumer confidence  in Denmark may show an
improvement, a survey of economists showed, while a report may
show Russian producer prices gained 0.8 percent in December from
a month earlier, half the increase in November.  In Paris, European Central Bank Governing Council members
Jens Weidmann and Christian Noyer are scheduled to participate
in a press conference with German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  and France’s  Francois Baroin .  Slower Inflation  In Australia, today’s report showed the producer price
index rose 2.9 percent in the fourth quarter from a year
earlier, lower than the median forecast of 3 percent.  The increase in costs was driven by a 2.3 percent gain in
the price of imported goods as the currency weakened, the report
showed. The local dollar has fallen 5.5 percent since it reached
$1.1081 on July 27, the highest level since it was freely
floated in 1983.  The report showed the cost of industrial machinery and
equipment manufacturing gained 3.2 percent, while prices dropped
21.8 percent in a category called other agriculture.  “The main source of disinflation came from agricultural
prices as production in Queensland returned following severe
weather and crop destruction in early 2011,” Michael Turner, an
economist at RBC Capital Markets Ltd. in Sydney, wrote in a
report after the release. “Benign pipeline price pressures”
may provide “some marginal support for the 25 basis-point cut
we continue to expect,” he said.  Currency’s Effect  Australian inflation has eased as the currency remained
above parity with the  U.S. dollar  and the nation’s retailers cut
prices to encourage consumers to spend. The nation’s job market
recorded its weakest year of employment growth in almost two
decades, a government report showed this month.  Consumer prices in  Australia  probably advanced 0.2 percent
in the fourth quarter from three months earlier, according to
the median of 25 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey before the
report later this week.  New Zealand  last week recorded an unexpected drop in
consumer prices in the fourth quarter.  Investors are pricing in an 82 percent chance Australia’s
Stevens will lower borrowing costs by a quarter percentage point
to 4 percent at the next meeting, a Credit Suisse Group AG Index
showed.  Twenty-one of 22 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
predict Stevens will cut the benchmark rate to 4 percent.  Global Slowdown  The  World Bank  last week cut its global growth forecast by
the most in three years, saying a recession in the euro region
threatens to exacerbate a slowdown in  emerging markets  such as
India and Mexico.  The global economy will grow 2.5 percent this year, down
from a June estimate of 3.6 percent, the Washington-based
institution said. The euro area may contract 0.3 percent,
compared with a previous estimate of a 1.8 percent gain.  Stevens reduced the overnight cash rate target to 4.25
percent from 4.5 percent last month, citing “considerable
turbulence” in financial markets and an increased chance of a
“further material slowing in global growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  