-- Bank of Israel Cuts Rate for Third Time Amid European Slowdown
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2012-01-23T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/bank-of-israel-cuts-rate-for-third-time-amid-european-slowdown.html
The Bank of  Israel  reduced its
 benchmark  interest rate for a third time in five months, saying
that while global markets are showing optimism, the European
debt crisis remains a threat to domestic growth.  The monetary policy committee, led by Governor  Stanley Fischer , reduced the rate by a quarter-percentage point to 2.5
percent, the Jerusalem-based central bank said on its website
yesterday. Ten of 23 economists surveyed by Bloomberg predicted
a cut, and the remainder forecast no change.  “The  Bank of Israel  didn’t save its ammunition, but it
doesn’t have any reason to,”  Amir Kahanovich, chief economist
at Clal Finance Brokerage Ltd. in Tel Aviv, said in a telephone
interview. “A later rate cut might have been too late. He
prefers to risk inflation rather than a crisis in demand,”
Kahanovich said referring to Fischer.  The central bank and the  Finance Ministry  have reduced
their growth predictions for this year, citing the impact of the
European debt crisis. Exports make up about 40 percent of the
Israeli economy and  Europe  is one of the largest markets.
Inflation eased in December to an annual 2.2 percent, the
slowest pace in more than a year.  “The macroeconomic data on the  euro zone  continue to
indicate the start of a recession,” the bank said in its
statement. “The slowdown in growth in Israel’s economy is seen
in exports and in domestic demand, against a background of
weakness in the global economy.”  Cut Unexpected  Traders have been betting against a cut, as the  U.S.
economy  recovers and global markets show improvement. The shekel
had appreciated to its strongest against the dollar in almost a
month prior to the decision.  Interest rate  swaps had risen to
their highest in more than a month.  “Its preferable to prevent disease than to cure it,” Amir Haik, chief economist at Union Bank of Israel Ltd. in Tel Aviv,
who predicted the cut, said in a telephone interview. “It’s
better to cut by a quarter-point now than to wait and have to
cut by a half-point later, which could result in a shock to the
market.”  Haik said the rate reduction yesterday should give the
central bank one or two months of “breathing room” in which it
won’t have to act, unless there is a significant worsening of
the situation in Europe.  The Finance Ministry cut its growth forecast to 3.2 percent
from 4 percent, Finance Minister Yuval Steinitz said Jan. 18.
The Bank of Israel on Dec. 26 lowered its prediction for 2012 to
2.8 percent from September’s estimate of 3.2 percent.  Shekel Weakens  The shekel weakened to 3.7780 a dollar at 7:33 p.m. in  Tel
Aviv . The currency was at 3.7642 before the decision was
announced.  Israel’s two-year interest-rate swaps, an indicator of
investor expectations for interest rates over the period, fell
to 2.48 percent at 7:34 p.m. in Tel Aviv. The swaps were at 2.58
percent just before the decision was announced at 5:30 p.m.  Economists’ 12-month  inflation expectations  remained
unchanged at 2.3 percent, the central bank reported Jan. 17. The
government’s target range for inflation is 1 percent to 3
percent.  The central bank last cut its  benchmark  lending rate in
November, lowering it a quarter-point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in  Jerusalem  at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 