-- Bank-Capital Rule on Sovereign Debt Targeted by EU Lawmakers
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-01-23T10:50:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/bank-capital-loophole-on-sovereign-debt-targeted-by-eu-lawmakers.html
European Union lawmakers are seeking
to close a loophole in  bank -capital rules that allows lenders to
escape holding reserves against possible losses on the crisis-
hit region’s sovereign debt.  A European Parliament committee will discuss overhauling
the measure to ensure that lenders hold enough capital to
reflect the true risks of government bonds on their books,
according to two of its members. Still, they said any measures
should only take effect after the current market turmoil
subsides to avoid compounding the EU’s fiscal woes.  The idea that Europe’s sovereign debt is devoid of risk was
shattered by the onset of a crisis that has threatened the
survival of the euro.  Greece  negotiated with private creditors
to lower its debt levels as part of a second international
bailout since 2010. Portugal and Ireland have also sought
financial support to stave off defaults.  “I don’t think anyone is zero risk,” said  Sharon Bowles ,
chairwoman of the assembly’s economic and monetary affairs
committee. “We should dispense with the concept. It can maybe
be the case that you don’t have to hold capital in certain
circumstances. It’s just using this terminology turns us into
idiots.”  Bowles’s committee will consider the zero rating at a
meeting on Jan. 24, as part of a broader debate on proposals to
implement bank rules drafted by the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision  in the EU.  Not ‘Economic Reality’  “I am convinced that the zero risk-weight does not
correspond with the economic reality any longer,”  Othmar Karas ,
the Austrian lawmaker who is in charge of drafting the
Parliament’s response to the proposals, said in an interview.  Regulators should overhaul a minimum liquidity rule for
banks that was drawn up in Basel, Karas told reporters in
Brussels today. The requirement, known as a liquidity coverage
ratio, would require lenders to hold enough easy to sell assets
to survive a 30 day credit crunch. It has been criticized by
banks for being overly focused on sovereign debt.  The definition of what counts as an easy to sell asset
should be expanded to include gold and some equities, Karas
said.  Global regulators have attacked the zero weighting, saying
it allows banks to ignore the dangers they face from writedowns
of  government bonds , making them more vulnerable to economic
turmoil in the 27-nation bloc.  Budgetary Discipline  Ideas include a review of the rule for countries receiving
EU bailouts, or making the zero risk-weight conditional on a
nation adhering to the region’s rules on budgetary discipline,
Karas said in an interview.  Lawmakers’ scope of action is limited in the short term
because it could worsen the region’s fiscal crisis, according to
both Karas and Bowles, a U.K. member of the EU assembly.  Karas’s draft report published last month calls for the
European Commission, the EU’s executive arm, to set out options
for scrapping the zero weighting “as soon as possible, while
taking into account potentially destabilizing effects” of
making such proposals “during periods of market stress.”  Bowles said lawmakers should take action “that’s stronger
than just calling for a report -- but it can’t happen right
now.” It’s “not the moment to actually switch over” from the
zero risk-weighting, she said in an interview.  The  Bank for International Settlements  has attacked the
current EU rules, saying they allow banks to apply a “one-size-
fits-all” approach to government debt that isn’t in line with
standards agreed by the Basel Committee.  Deficiency  “Although sovereign assets are still a relatively low-risk
asset class, they should no longer be assigned a zero risk-
weight,” it said. “The deficiency is not in the Basel
standards but in the way the global standards have been applied
in some countries and especially in the European Union.”  The EU should consider scaling back its implementation of
Basel rules if the U.S. doesn’t also take steps to apply the
standards, Karas said today. The EU should identify rules that
could lead to “distortions of competition,” if they are
applied in  Europe  but not in the U.S., Karas said.  Still, the EU should aim to beat the Basel committee’s
timetable for forcing lenders to boost their core capital, Karas
said. A Basel requirement for lenders to have core reserves
equivalent to 4.5 percent of their assets, weighted for risk,
should be brought forward to 2013 from 2015, he said.  EU governments and the parliament must together agree on
the final wording of the capital rules before they can become
law in the region.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  