-- Dwarfism Medicine Shows Lure of $400,000 Drugs for Rare Diseases
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2012-01-23T21:11:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/biomarin-s-dwarfism-medicine-marks-growth-of-400-000-rare-disease-drugs.html
David Blaustein waited seven years
for the phone call that finally came in December 2010 from
 BioMarin Pharmaceutical Inc. (BMRN) , a maker of medicines for rare
diseases.  Blaustein’s 8-year-old son has  achondroplasia , a genetic
condition that’s the most common form of dwarfism. A doctor
turned investor, Blaustein spent years trying to find any
company focused on the disease, which affects fewer than 30,000
people globally and for which there are no approved medicines.
BioMarin, he learned, was about to announce it was at work on
what could be the first one.  “We were trying to raise money and put together scientists
and academics, but it was all so tough,” said Blaustein,
managing director of health-care investing for Suttonbrook
Capital Management in New York. His spirits lifted when he saw
BioMarin’s data of tests performed on mice. “People who are
knee-deep in genetic diseases say this is one of the most
dramatic animal model recoveries they’ve ever seen,” he said.  Typically Blaustein’s son would have to wait  eight to 15
years  for a drug to reach the market from the earliest stages of
testing. BioMarin expects it can do it in half that time.  “Our last three drug approvals have been five years, four
years and three years,” Hank Fuchs, chief medical officer for
the Novato, California-based company, said in a telephone
interview. “Compared to an industry average of eight, we do an
average of four.”  Orphan Diseases  BioMarin is one in a growing field of companies looking to
profit by treating rare diseases. They develop medicines for as
few as 5,000 to 10,000 patients worldwide and make returns by
charging as much as $400,000 a year per patient for drugs. The
U.S. and  Europe  give drugmakers  exclusive marketing  rights to
focus on these so-called  orphan diseases  with no other treatment
options, and smaller patient populations mean fewer participants
are needed for clinical trials.  It’s a business model that appeals increasingly to
investors and large drugmakers that need to refill drying
pipelines. Despite the medicines’ steep pricetags, health
insurers normally don’t fight the claims because there are so
few patients. The drugs also can cut down on medical costs by
tackling disorders that cause expensive and recurring health
issues, according to Fuchs.  BioMarin’s Drug  BioMarin’s medicine for dwarfism, BMN-111, is just starting
human trials. It’s designed to correct a genetic defect that
causes abnormal cartilage and bone formation, leading to
severely shortened bones. Men with achondroplasia typically grow
to 4 feet, 4 inches (131 centimeters), and women to 4 feet, 1
inch, on average, according to  BioMarin .  The company, whose  top medicines  replace enzymes needed to
break down waste products in cells, isn’t trying to cure
shortness, Fuchs said. It’s addressing achondroplasia by
targeting and then trying to correct the underlying genetic
problem.  “Achondroplasia is not a disease that just stunts
growth,” Fuchs said in a telephone interview. “Short is part
of this, but there are many other medical problems associated
with it.”  Patients need many treatments to address the effects of
abnormal bone growth, said  William Wilcox , a professor of
pediatrics and biomedical sciences at the Cedars-Sinai Medical
Center in  Los Angeles . He’s an adviser to BioMarin, and has been
working on achondroplasia since the gene that causes it was
discovered in 1994.  Health Complications  The disease can cause compression of the spine, bowing of
the legs, fluid build-up in the ears, unequal-sized jaws and
obstructed breathing during sleep, many of which require surgery
or other procedures, Wilcox said. Some patients undergo limb-
lengthening, a process that involves breaking and re-breaking
the bones in order to extend them.  Blaustein’s son had that procedure a few months ago, when
he was 7. Both his legs were broken in three places, and 15 to
20 pins were inserted in each one. He was placed in traction
and, four times a day for six weeks, the pins were rotated to
break the bones. Length is gained through formation of scar
tissue that transforms to bone at the break site.  Watching his son go through the treatment was devastating,
Blaustein said. “It was so hard to see your child in pain all
the time.”  His son added 3.5 inches to his legs. He can now run faster
and do things like reach the sink to wash his hands, said
Blaustein.  Awaiting Results  Still, the investor is anxiously waiting for the results of
BioMarin’s first trials. If they go well, he wouldn’t hesitate
to enroll his son in later-stage tests, he said.  BioMarin’s medicine would be taken as a daily injection,
similar to the administration of insulin for diabetics. The goal
would be to start treatment upon diagnosis, normally by a year
of age, and continue until the end of puberty when the growth
plates close, BioMarin’s Fuchs said.  “Our hope is that it will be profoundly effective,” if
not a complete cure, the medical chief said. It could enable
patients who take the drug throughout childhood to reach at
least average height and also add inches to those who start
treatment later in childhood yet before puberty ends, he said.  BioMarin fell 1.2 percent to $34.78 at the close in  New
York . The shares have gained 36 percent in the past 12 months.  Eighty percent of children with achondroplasia are born to
parents without the disease. Their disorder is the result of a
spontaneous gene mutation, said Wilcox, of Cedars-Sinai.  Questioning Drug Development  The prospect of a medicine that restores height to children
with dwarfism is controversial. The advocacy group  Little People
of America  encourages its members and society in general to
accept rather than seek to alter dwarfism.  “We’re not about research, we’re not about medicine, we’re
about support,” said Gary Arnold, president of LPA. “And
frankly we don’t look at dwarfism as something that needs to be
treated.”  Arnold, who is the only one in his family with
achondroplasia, said a diverse culture has formed among people
with dwarfism, which includes those of both genders and
different races who live in disparate places. The association
doesn’t have a formal position about BioMarin’s potential
medicine, he said.  “We’re not going to make a decision for people about
whether something’s right or wrong,” Arnold said.  Family Effort  The lack of medical options for kids born with
achondroplasia has frustrated many parents, who, like Blaustein,
have devoted time and resources to finding new treatments. Amer
and Munira Haider started a nonprofit organization to fund
medical research on the disorder after their second child,
Ahmin, 3, was diagnosed with it in 2009.  “When we got in the community, we found it’s very robust
and rich, but the amount of medical research and funding going
toward medical research was not very strong,” Amer Haider said
in a telephone interview.  A vice president of corporate and business development at
 Cavium Inc. (CAVM) , a processor company in Silicon Valley, Haider and
his wife have raised $450,000 to spend in the next three years
from a group of 35 friends and family members, he said. Their
organization, called  Growing Stronger , will support the research
of BioMarin adviser Wilcox and also  William Horton , at Shriners
Research Center in  Portland ,  Oregon . Their goal is to partner
with members of Little People of America to raise more funds and
determine where to direct them.  BioMarin’s Advantage  Few existing options means a clear field for BioMarin.
Priced similarly to other orphan drugs at $200,000 to $400,000 a
year per patient, the medicine could yield revenue of $900
million annually for the company, said Chris Raymond, an analyst
with Robert W. Baird & Co. He estimates there may be 4,500
patients in the U.S. and Europe who could benefit from BMN-111.  There’s no guarantee, of course, that the medicine will
reach the market. Drug development is notoriously fickle, with
more therapies failing than succeeding. Still, Blaustein said,
he’s hopeful.  His son, after undergoing limb lengthening, wondered why he
couldn’t get the kind of treatment received by his grandmother,
who takes a daily shot of insulin with a “tiny needle” for her
diabetes, Blaustein recalled.  “He asked me, ‘Is there any way I could get a shot every
day?’” like his grandma, Blaustein said. With BioMarin’s drug
on the horizon, he told his son, “Maybe, you know, maybe.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  