-- Bank of America Targets Up to $3 Billion in Additional Cuts, Moynihan Says
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2012-01-23T21:14:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/bofa-targets-up-to-3b-in-additional-cuts.html
Bank of America Corp. , the second-
biggest U.S. lender by assets, may reduce annual costs by as
much as an additional $3 billion in the next stage of Chief
Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan ’s efficiency plan.  The lender, which already targeted $5 billion in expense
cuts from retail and back-office operations, may reach total
savings of $6 billion to $8 billion a year, Moynihan said during
a Jan. 19 employee meeting. The latest  phase  of his effort
examines investment and commercial banking, trading, and wealth-
management units and is scheduled to be completed in April.  Moynihan, 52, is relying on cuts after mortgage losses and
U.S. regulation drained revenue last year. In the first part of
his plan, dubbed Project New BAC, the CEO announced 30,000 job
cuts from  consumer banking , credit-card, home loan and support
operations at the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based lender.  Managers will reduce the “overall cost structure of the
company; through New BAC we’ve identified $5 billion,” Moynihan
said last week. “We’ll pick up more in Phase 2, that ought to
get you $1.5 billion to $2 billion a quarter” in total savings.  Moynihan has told analysts that his latest round of cost
cuts will yield smaller savings than the first because there are
fewer employees in corporate and institutional units. Expenses
will start to decline in the second half of this year, he has
said.  Larry DiRita , a spokesman for the bank, declined to
comment on Moynihan’s remarks to employees.  ‘Got To Do More’  The push to reduce costs has stoked anxiety among the
 284,635  workers the lender had as of Dec. 31. Moynihan in
September unveiled initial details of his plan, which divides
the company into two parts, each with roughly $27 billion in
annual expenses. Wall Street firms including Barclays Plc and
Credit Suisse Group AG have dismissed staff as revenue from
trading stocks and bonds has eroded.  “What is the right fixed-cost structure given what we see
in the market conditions and opportunities?” Moynihan said last
week during a conference call with analysts. “We need that
business to come back or we’ve got to do more in expenses.”  Moynihan highlighted the firm’s improvement in capital
levels, accomplished mostly through asset sales. The bank’s Tier
1 common equity ratio, a measure of the ability to absorb
unexpected losses, rose to 9.86 percent from 8.65 percent in the
third quarter.  ‘Leaner, Meaner’  “We’ve made good progress transforming this company into
that leaner, meaner, fighting machine off all the acquisitions
and all the crises that happened,” Moynihan told staff.  The lender posted a $1.99 billion fourth-quarter profit
fueled by one-time gains including the sale of holdings in a
Chinese bank. Analysts including  Todd Hagerman  of Sterne Agee &
Leach Inc. estimated the core results were a loss.  The bank had $4 billion in net revenue before taxes and
provisions in the quarter, Chief Financial Officer Bruce R. Thompson said during last week’s meeting. The company aims to
more than double that figure to $10 billion, mostly through cost
savings and improved trading results, he said.  “This has got to be a change we make very quickly,”
Thompson said. “It’s going from getting capital and liquidity
to getting back to, ‘How do we get the earnings stream of this
company back to where we want it to be?’”  Bank of America advanced 18 cents to $7.25 at 4:15 p.m. in
 New York . The firm has  surged  30 percent this year, the most in
the  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU) , as investors bet that an
improving U.S. economy will buoy earnings. The lender was
pummeled last year with a 58 percent decline, the worst in the
30-company Dow index.  “Happy New Year,” Moynihan said during the Jan. 19
employee meeting. “It’s a happier New Year today with the stock
price up a little bit, right?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at   hson1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 