-- Bovespa Climbs for Sixth Day as Petrobras Surges After Hiring New Chief
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2012-01-23T20:52:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/bovespa-futures-drop-as-greek-debt-talks-fuel-growth-concern.html
The  Bovespa (IBOV)  stock index rose for a
sixth day, the longest winning streak in six months, as
 Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  surged after saying it will replace its
chief executive officer with its natural-gas and energy chief.  Petrobras, as Petroleo Brasileiro is known, rose to the
highest price in almost eight months after saying Maria das Gracas Foster will take over from Chief Executive Officer Jose
Sergio Gabrielli. The  oil company  made the biggest contribution
for the index’s advance.  Itau Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB4) ,  Latin
America ’s biggest bank by market value, led declines by
companies that benefit from credit growth on speculation policy
makers will slow the pace of interest-rate cuts in  Brazil .  The Bovespa added 0.1 percent to 62,386.24 at the close of
trading in  Sao Paulo . Forty-six stocks fell on the index, while
21 advanced. The real was little changed at 1.7550 per  U.S.
dollar .  “Gabrielli couldn’t stay at Petrobras forever, and the
choice of Gracas Foster to replace him signals there won’t be
any disruption in the policies the company has adopted in the
past few years,” Joao Pedro Brugger, who helps oversee 80
million reais ($46 million) at Leme Investimentos in
Florianopolis, Brazil, said by phone.  Foster ran the company’s fuel distribution unit before
heading the gas and energy division.  Petrobras jumped 3.8 percent to 25.13 reais, the highest
since May 4.  Usiminas Rise  Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA , Brazil’s second-
biggest steelmaker, gained 1.7 percent to 11.67 reais as prices
of industrial metals advanced and investors bet the purchase of
a stake by the Techint Group may improve management.  Julian Eguren, the executive president of Techint’s Ternium
SA unit in  Mexico , was named Usiminas’s chief executive officer
last week, replacing Wilson Brumer. The change will likely
improve administration, said Rafael Weber, who helps manage
about 7 billion reais at Geracao Futuro Corretora in  Porto
Alegre , Brazil.  The Bloomberg Base Metals 3-Month Price Commodity Index
rose 1.4 percent.  The Bovespa earlier fell as much as 0.6 percent as yields
on most interest-rate futures contracts rose after a central
bank survey economists covering Brazil increase their forecast
for economic growth in 2013.  Brazil’s gross domestic product will grow 4.25 percent in
2013, according to the median forecast in a Jan. 20 central bank
survey of about 100 economists published today. That compared
with an estimate of 4.2 percent the previous week. Policy makers
will cut the benchmark Selic rate to 9.75 percent by April,
compared with a forecast of 9.50 percent a week earlier, the
survey showed.  Itau fell 1.9 percent to 36.40 reais.  Annual Performance  The Bovespa has advanced 9.9 percent this year, buoyed by
Brazil’s interest-rate cuts, signs of growth in the U.S. and
renewed optimism  Europe  may be closer to solving its debt
crisis. The gauge trades at 9.9 times analysts’ earnings
estimates, which compares with the ratio of 10.1 for MSCI Inc.’s
measure of 21 developing nations’ equities, weekly data compiled
by Bloomberg show. Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge sank 18
percent in 2011.  Traders  moved  6.14 billion reais in stocks in Sao Paulo
today, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares with a
daily average of 6.49 billion reais in 2011, according to data
from the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  