-- Brazilian Rate Future Yields Climb Before Inflation Report
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2012-01-23T21:57:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/brazilian-real-advances-fourth-day-on-europe-optimism-trade-inflow-bets.html
Yields on Brazil’s benchmark
interest-rate futures rose ahead of a government report tomorrow
that may show consumer price increases this month maintained the
fastest pace since May.  The yield on the Brazilian interest-rate futures contract
due in January 2013 rose four basis points, or 0.04 percentage
point, to 9.86 percent after earlier falling as much as four
basis points. The real was little changed at 1.7550 per  U.S.
dollar , from 1.7552 on Jan. 20. It earlier touched 1.7487 per
dollar, the strongest level since Nov. 14.  Consumer prices probably increased 0.56 percent in the
month through Jan. 15, matching the pace of the increase last
month, according to the median forecast of 44 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. Policy makers cut the benchmark lending
rate at a fourth straight meeting last week, lowering it 10.5
percent, in a bid to shore up economic growth without reigniting
inflation.  “Data on inflation will renew the discussion on whether
the supply shocks from food prices will ease the pressure on
inflation indicators and whether there is some slowdown in the
labor market,” analysts at 4Cast Inc., a consultancy firm,
wrote in a note to clients.  Brazil ’s real traded at the highest level since November as
investors anticipated that European leaders will make progress
in talks to tame the region’s debt crisis at a meeting. European
officials are crafting a long-term plan to tackle the region’s
debt crisis in Brussels as  Greece  and private bondholders said
they had made progress in negotiating a debt swap during talks
over the weekend in  Athens .  Stock Rally  Investors also bought the real on expectations the rally in
Brazil’s stock market will attract foreign investors, said Jose Carlos Amado, currency trader at Renasenca DTVM Ltda. in Sao
Paulo. Brazil’s benchmark Bovespa stock index has gained 9.9
percent this year.  “The dollar is on a downward trend with this respite in
 Europe ,” Amado said in a telephone interview. “There’s a lot
of talk about inflows, particularly into equities.”  Economists covering Brazil cut their forecast for inflation
this year for an eighth week. Consumer prices will increase 5.29
percent this year, according to the median forecast in a Jan. 20
 central bank survey  of about 100 economists published today,
down from an estimate of 5.30 percent the previous week.  Consumer prices rose 6.5 percent in 2011.  Economists expect policy makers to cut the benchmark rate
to 9.5 percent by the end of the year before raising it back to
10.25 percent in 2013, the survey found.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in  Sao Paulo  at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  