-- Crude Oil Advances After European Union Agrees on Sanctions Against Iran
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-01-23T13:41:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/brent-oil-rises-in-london-as-eu-diplomats-agree-to-sanctions-against-iran.html
Oil rose as the European Union
announced a phased-in embargo of  Iranian (OPCRIRAN)  crude in an effort to
contain the Islamic Republic’s nuclear program.  The ban will be implemented in stages by July 1, Dutch
Foreign Minister Uri Rosenthal told reporters today in Brussels.
The region bought 450,000 barrels a day of  Iran ’s oil in the
first half of 2011, U.S. Energy Department data show. EU finance
heads are meeting to craft a long-term plan to tackle the area’s
debt crisis.  “It remains to be seen how the embargo will be implemented
and therefore how prices will react,” said  Christopher Bellew ,
a senior broker at Jefferies Bache Ltd. in London. “Sanctions
would of course be more effective if the EU can persuade other
buyers to join them. And full implementation has been delayed to
July 1. A lot can happen in five months.”  Brent oil for March settlement gained as much as $1.33, or
1.2 percent, to $111.19 a barrel and was at $111.80 a barrel at
1:37 p.m. on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London.  On the  New York Mercantile Exchange , West Texas
Intermediate crude for March delivery was at $98.85 a barrel
after rising as much as 1.2 percent to $99.50. Brent’s premium
to WTI widened for a second day, to $11.85.  Phased-In Sanctions  “As of July 1, we have a ban on the import of oil and oil
products from Iran,” the Dutch Foreign Minister said, adding
that ministers will see how to “limit the damage” to  Greece 
from the measure.  “The solution for Greece could be a gesture from other
oil-exporting countries to be accommodative on the price of oil
supplied to Greece,” Rosenthal said. “Of course, it could also
be the case that within the European Union, among  member states ,
we could have a form of compensation, but those are matters that
aren’t at hand now and which have to be solved before July 1.”  Mediterranean countries that import much of their crude
from Iran, such as Greece, Spain and Italy, had argued for
sanctions to be phased in over as much as a year. The three
nations accounted for about 68 percent of EU imports from Iran
in 2010, European Commission data show.  Saudi Arabia  has unused daily production of about 2.2
million barrels a day that can be deployed to compensate, the
 International Energy Agency  says. The Centre for Global Energy
Studies, a consultancy founded by former Saudi Oil Minister
Sheikh Ahmad Zaki Yamani, and Washington-based consultant PFC
Energy Inc. estimate it may be as high as 2.5 million.  Hedge Funds’ Bets  Hedge funds reduced bullish bets on oil for the first time
in four weeks after the EU delayed sanctions against Iran. Large
speculators cut wagers on rising prices by 3.8 percent in the
week ended Jan. 17, according to the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission’s Commitments of Traders report on Jan. 20.  Money managers reduced bullish bets on  Brent crude  by 7,135
contracts in the week ended Jan. 17, according to data from ICE
Futures  Europe . Speculative bets that Brent will rise, in
futures and options combined, outnumbered short positions by
85,848 lots, or 7.7 percent, from 92,983 contracts the previous
week, the exchange said today in its weekly Commitment of
Traders report. The data is for futures and options combined.  The U.K. and France have joined the U.S. in sending
warships to the Strait of Hormuz, as Iran threatens to close the
waterway in response to sanctions, the  Daily Telegraph  reported.
The strait is a transit route for about a fifth of the world’s
crude, according to the U.S. Department of Energy.  Iran’s Foreign Ministry spokesman  Ramin Mehmanparast  said
yesterday that only negotiations and not sanctions can resolve
the standoff over its nuclear program, according to the official
 Islamic Republic News Agency .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  