-- BA Parent Targets Long-Haul Acquisitions
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2012-01-23T17:32:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/british-airways-parent-iag-targets-long-haul-acquisitions.html
British Airways parent IAG , seeking
to build on its formation from a merger of the U.K. carrier with
 Spain ’s Iberia a year ago, is working to identify new takeover
targets including long-haul operators.  IAG is looking at opportunities beyond European airlines
such as  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) ’s BMI, which it has agreed to buy,
and  Portugal ’s state-owned TAP SGPS SA, in which it has declared
an interest, Chairman Antonio Vazquez said in an interview.  “We are definitely interested in seeking other
acquisitions,” Vazquez said today in Madrid. “In  Europe ,
everything is really taken, so it’s difficult to do anything. So
we would be keen on looking for long-haul airlines.”  IAG Chief Executive Officer  Willie Walsh  said prior to the
company’s formation that he’d drawn up a list of 12 possible
partners from an initial pool of about 40. Vazquez said today
that a major inter-continental deal with a carrier such as
Oneworld alliance partner  Lan Airlines SA (LAN)  of Chile will take
time because of regulations limiting holdings to 49 percent.  “The problem is that current regulation doesn’t allow it
and I don’t see anything happening this year at least,” he said
in the interview. “We are working on identifying new potential
targets to be ready for the moment when they arise.”  Multiple Options  IAG rose 2.1 percent to 171.10 pence in London, taking
gains this year to 16 percent and valuing the company at 3.17
billion pounds ($4.9 billion).  “It will be a good thing to do to remain competitive,” said
Andrew Fitchie, an analyst at Investec Securities in London with
a “sell” rating on IAG. “There are a wide range of carriers
that could be targets. Pretty much wherever you look there are
opportunities, although those are there for other airlines too.”  While adding a long-haul carrier will be positive for IAG,
it is also probably more of a longer-term goal, with BA and
Iberia needing to first complete the “big job” of delivering
savings from their own merger, Fitchie said.  IAG is working to close the deal to buy BMI, which it wants
primarily for operating slots at  London ’s crowded Heathrow
airport, and will subsequently decide whether to sell or keep
the unit’s headquarters building and other assets, Vazquez said.  LOT Bids  Turk Hava Yollari AO, or  Turkish Airlines , is one of two
carriers in talks about a bid for Warsaw-based Polskie Linie
Lotnicze LOT SA, the Polish government said today.  British Airways lost out in bidding for LOT as long ago as
1999, when the now defunct SAirGroup took a 37.6 percent stake.
BA was identified by Poland’s Rzeczpospolita paper as a possible
suitor in 2010 following the start of the current sale process.  Vazquez said that IAG isn’t concerned about losing out in
Europe to Middle Eastern carriers such as  Etihad Airways , which
has taken a 29 percent stake in Oneworld recruit Air Berlin, or
 Qatar Airways  Ltd., which said last week it’s examining deals in
the region after buying Cargolux International SA in 2010.  Shares of Stockholm-based  SAS Group (SAS)  gained as much as 7.8
percent Jan. 19 after Qatar Air CEO Akbar  Al Baker  said he was
looking at an unspecified purchase. Ireland’s  Aer Lingus Group
Plc (AERL) , previously linked with a bid from Etihad, rose 9.1 percent.  Hub Challenge  Qatar Airways also seems a likely candidate to take a stake
in Spanair SA, which is controlled by the regional government of
Catalonia, Vazquez said. The Spanish newspaper Expansion
reported on Oct. 27 that a Qatari bid for the Barcelona-based
carrier might consist of cash or planes.  “We aren’t worried about Gulf carriers coming to Europe,”
Vazquez said, adding that inter-continental travel hubs being
established in the  Middle East  present a far greater challenge.  Gulf states “are obsessed with building huge airports” to
target long-haul flights between East and West and that has
become a “big headache” for more heavily regulated European
airlines, the executive said. IAG is itself in talks to operate
flights to Beijing even as it waits for demand to pick up
sufficiently to make the services viable, he said.  No action has yet been taken regarding TAP as Portugal’s
government has yet to begin a sale process, Vazquez said. Buying
the Lisbon-based airline would consolidate IAG’s hold on routes
from Europe to  South America , something which might become a
priority should Lan opt to switch to Lufthansa’s rival Star
alliance once it has merged with Sao Paulo-based  Tam SA. (TAMM4)   Iberia Wrangle  IAG, as  International Consolidated Airlines Group SA (IAG)  is
known, remains confident it can end strike action by pilots over
the planned Iberia Express discount unit, the chairman said,
adding that the operation will commence flying on March 25.  Iberia would have preferred to have offered lower-cost,
short-haul flights through a closer relationship with Vueling
Airlines SA, in which it’s the No. 1 investor, but that wasn’t
possible because of collective bargaining terms, Vazquez said.  While the strike is a “big headache” for Iberia,
introducing Iberia Express is a “crucial” step, he said.  Luis Benguerel, a trader at Interbrokers in Barcelona, said
a higher quality service, not just a discount one, will be
required to stem declining domestic and short-haul traffic.  “What Iberia needs in order to stop losing customers to
rivals such as the high-speed train is to reduce regional
flights and encourage passengers to fly more regularly with more
space and more comfort,” he said. “Does it need a low-cost
carrier being the biggest shareholder in Vueling? I doubt it.”  Iberia’s mainline operation will invest in long-haul
flights and continue to build  Madrid  as a hub while seeking to
improve its short- and medium-haul business, Vazquez said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  