-- Buffett’s NetJets Widens Lufthansa Ties
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-01-23T22:01:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/buffett-s-netjets-widens-lufthansa-ties.html
NetJets Inc., the private-aircraft
company owned by  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK\S) ,
deepened a partnership with  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  to offer
private jet service to 3,000 North American airports.  The accord expands an agreement now in place to serve 1,000
destinations in  Europe . The target market is wealthy travelers
flying from Europe, and passengers can book just one trip, a
smaller commitment than typically required for most charter-jet
flights, said Martin Riecken, a Lufthansa spokesman.  “The beauty for the customer is he can book a trans-
Atlantic flight from Europe to the U.S.” on a Lufthansa jet and
then schedule a domestic flight leg, Riecken said today in a
telephone interview.  Customers will have a dedicated service team to book
flights, ground transportation and in-flight food and drink,
Cologne, Germany-based Lufthansa said in a statement. Passengers
can also get personal transfer service when connecting from
overseas flights on Lufthansa planes to a private jet flight,
plus access to airport lounges in 21 North American cities.  The Lufthansa-NetJets North American partnership will
compete with services such as  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) ’s Delta
Private Jets, which offers blocks of flight time as short as 10
hours that can be used on multiple trips.  The cost of a NetJets flight varies by length of flight and
size of aircraft, Riecken said.  Super Bowl Flight  For example, chartering a four-person plane to
Indianapolis, site of the National Football League’s Super Bowl
on Feb. 5, from New Jersey’s Teterboro airport near  New York 
would be $10,800, Riecken said. The same trip on an eight-
 passenger jet  would be $13,488, he said.  Delta’s hourly pricing  can range from $4,750 to $11,900,
according to its website.  Lufthansa Private Jet passengers will earn 10,000 frequent-
flier miles per flight leg, while NetJets will operate the
flights with planes such as a seven-passenger Hawker 400XP or a
14-person Gulfstream G550, Lufthansa said in the statement.  “We are pleased to collaborate with Lufthansa on the
expanded Lufthansa Private Jet product and provide travelers
access to the convenience and flexibility of flying privately
with NetJets,”  Adam Johnson , president of sales, marketing and
service for NetJets  North America , said in an e-mailed
statement.  NetJets Turnaround  NetJets, which Berkshire purchased in 1998, became “the
major problem” for the Omaha, Nebraska-based parent in 2009 as
the recession made it more difficult for the unit to fill
planes, Buffett said in that year’s annual report.  Buffett replaced NetJets founder Richard Santulli with
 David Sokol , and the unit returned to profit after firing pilots
and writing down the value of aircraft.  Buffett promoted Jordan Hansell to chief executive officer
of NetJets in 2011, giving the unit its third leader in less
than two years. Sokol, a former Berkshire energy executive,
resigned last year.  Last March, NetJets agreed to buy as many as 120 planes
from  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B) , including 50 firm orders with a retail
price of $2.8 billion and deliveries beginning in 2017. NetJets
has access to 750 jets worldwide.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta  at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  