-- Buy Forint Versus Zloty on Orban Central Bank Move, ING Says
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-01-23T09:38:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/buy-forint-versus-zloty-on-orban-central-bank-move-ing-says.html
Investors should buy the forint and
sell the zloty as Hungarian Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  moves to
guarantee the independence of the central bank, a step needed to
obtain an international bailout, ING Groep NV said.  The forint depreciated 0.2 percent against the euro to
304.3 by 10:25 a.m. in Budapest, paring this month’s gains to
3.5 percent. Hungary’s currency slid 0.4 percent against the
zloty to 70.65.  Orban is trying to revive bailout negotiations with the
European Union and the  International Monetary Fund  after
discussions broke down in December over his refusal to change
laws that both organizations said may weaken monetary-policy
independence. Orban offered to change disputed legislation after
the EU threatened a lawsuit against Hungary for encroaching on
the central bank’s independence and political meddling with the
judiciary and the data-protection authority.  “We venture into a short zloty versus long forint
recommendation on supportive comments and planned action by
Prime Minister Orban” Simon Quijano-Evans, a London-based
economist at ING, said in an e-mailed report today.  Hungary may obtain a loan from the IMF and the EU by March
or April,  Mihaly Varga , Orban’s chief of staff, told TV2 in an
interview today. Orban will propose “flexible solutions” to
European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso tomorrow in
Brussels to the EU executive’s objections to Hungarian laws,
including on the central bank, which have held up talks on a
bailout, Varga said.  ‘Concrete Outlook’  “Since a Hungarian government official for the first time
gave a concrete outlook on the time schedule for negotiations
with the IMF, Hungarian assets should react positively today,”
Kata Baller, a Budapest-based analyst at DZ Bank AG, wrote in a
research report.  Orban needs to follow up his pledges to respect the
independence of the central bank with “concrete steps” to
restart aid negotiations, Carolin Hecht, a Frankfurt-based
strategist at Commerzbank AG, wrote in a research report, adding
that the market “tends to be overoptimistic regarding
 Hungary .”  “The communication strategy is working and until this has
been disproved the forint will probably be able to defend its
position,” Hecht said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  