-- Cable to Require Transparency and Binding Investor Votes on Top U.K. Pay
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-01-23T17:20:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/cable-to-require-transparency-and-binding-investor-votes-on-top-u-k-pay.html
The U.K. government will legislate
to give company shareholders a binding vote over executive
compensation, including the length of notice periods, to ensure
failure is not rewarded, Business Secretary Vince Cable said.  “The evidence is clear that business and investors
recognize there is a disconnect between top pay and company
performance and that something must be done,” Cable told
lawmakers in the House of Commons in  London  today. “We cannot
accept top pay rising at five times average workers’ pay as we
did last year.”  Cable said he wants the largest public companies to publish
clear details of how much their highest-paid executives get,
along with information about average salaries within the
companies. He said they should consult staff about top pay,
recruit board members from wider backgrounds and implement
“clawback” arrangements under which pay can be recovered if a
company does badly.  The government and the opposition Labour Party are trying
to offer proposals to make capitalism function better as the
bank bonus season approaches, with the prospect of large sums
being paid to financiers. With U.K. unemployment  at a 17-year
high , public-sector pay frozen and 700,000 government jobs being
cut to help narrow the  budget deficit , Prime Minister  David Cameron  pledged earlier this month to tackle high levels of
executive pay that make “people’s blood boil.”  Exit Payments  Binding votes will require a new law, and Cable said the
government will hold consultations on how to implement votes on
both pay and notice periods. Shareholders would get a vote on
any director’s notice period longer than one year and on exit
payments of more than one year’s salary.  Cable cited a study by the  High Pay Commission , a pressure
group that pushes for curbs on top earners, that found British
directors’ salaries increased by 64 percent over the past
decade, while the average year-end share price of  FTSE 100
companies  fell 71 percent. The average annual bonus for
directors rose 187 percent, according to the panel.  In the U.S., the Dodd-Frank Act has given shareholders a
non-binding vote on top executive pay since January 2011. In
August, compensation experts said companies whose policies got a
vote below about 80 percent were taking it as a sign of
shareholder discontent.  Workers on Boards  The opposition  Labour Party ’s business spokesman, Chuka Umunna, told lawmakers the measures don’t go far enough in
promoting “the transparency, accountability and fairness that
people want to see,” with no plans to put rank-and-file
employees on remuneration committees.  Cable said that while worker representation on boards was
desirable, it was hard to prescribe for it, as some companies
have most of their staff overseas. He said there are also
difficulties with mandating limits on pay ratios.  While stopping short of forcing companies to put employees
on boards, Cable said he wants company directors to be drawn
from more diverse backgrounds and that he would like to see at
least two board members in each company who hadn’t previously
been on the board of another business. He also said he intends
to look further at whether members of remuneration committees
should be executives in other companies.  ‘Practical Proposals’  The main business lobby groups, the Institute of Directors
and the  Confederation of British Industry , welcomed Cable’s
statement. “It is encouraging that some of the heat has been
taken out of this issue by government coming up with some
practical proposals,” CBI Director-General  John Cridland  said in
a statement.  One of Cable’s aims is to avoid unintended consequences.
That may be difficult, according to Nicholas Stretch of law firm
 CMS Cameron McKenna  in London.  “The main concern listed companies are likely to have is
how it will be manageable for shareholders to have a veto on pay
and yet still give their executive directors reasonable
certainty over their remuneration,” Stretch said in an e-mail.
“Otherwise, fairly soon working for non-listed companies or
simply declining to take a seat on the board could start to look
very attractive. These proposals could also ironically lead to
higher salaries and more joining bonuses.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  