-- California Slaughterhouse Law Struck Down by Top U.S. Court
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-01-23T20:38:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/california-slaughterhouse-law-struck-down-by-top-u-s-court.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  overturned a
California law requiring slaughterhouses to immediately
euthanize animals that are too sick to stand up, delivering a
setback to animal-rights activists and a victory for the meat
industry.  The justices today unanimously ruled that the federal
government, and not the states, is solely responsible for the
rules that govern slaughterhouse operations. California’s law
“runs smack into” the federal regulations, Justice  Elena Kagan 
wrote for the court.  The  California (BEESCA)  law would have had its greatest effect on
the handling of nonambulatory pigs, which under U.S. law can be
used for food with the approval of a federal inspector. Federal
law bans the slaughter of downed cattle for food.  “This is a deeply troubling decision, preventing a wide
range of actions by the states to protect animals and consumers
from reckless practices by the meat industry,” said Wayne
Pacelle, president the  Humane Society  of the  United States .  The National Meat Association, the industry trade group
that challenged the California law, praised the ruling.  “We couldn’t be more pleased that the Supreme Court not
only found in favor of our very clear and reasonable arguments,
but that they did so unanimously,” said Barry Carpenter, the
group’s chief executive officer.  Thousands of Pigs  Of the 100 million hogs trucked to slaughter annually in
the U.S., 44,000 will be unable to walk, according to the Humane
Society and 2008 data from the  Des Moines , Iowa-based National
Pork Board, which does research and promotion of pork.  The California law was enacted in 2008 after the Humane
Society released a video of so-called downer cattle being
kicked, electrocuted, dragged with chains and rammed with a
forklift at a Westland/Hallmark Meat Co. slaughterhouse.  The  California  law, known as Section 599f, banned
slaughterhouses from buying or selling downer animals and from
butchering them for human consumption. Violators would have been
subject to as much as a year in jail and a $20,000 fine.  Kagan said the state measure was pre-empted by the Federal
Meat Inspection Act.  “At every turn Section 599f imposes additional or
different requirements on swine slaughterhouses,” Kagan wrote.
“It compels them to deal with nonambulatory pigs on their
premises in ways that the federal act and regulations do not.”  The Obama administration argued alongside the meat-industry
trade group in urging the court to void the state law.  The case is National Meat Association v. Harris, 10-224.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  