-- Canada-U.S. Softwood Lumber Agreement Extended Until 2015
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2012-01-23T21:17:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/canada-says-softwood-lumber-accord-with-u-s-extended-two-years-to-2015.html
The U.S. and  Canada  agreed to extend
their five-year-old softwood-lumber agreement through 2015, five
days after President  Barack Obama  denied a permit for an oil
pipeline backed by the Canadian government.  The lumber accord, set to end in October 2013, will remain
in effect for two additional years, both governments said today
in statements. Canada exported $2.6 billion of softwood to the
U.S. in 11 months through November, and the wood-products
industry and related business had 164,000 employees in 2010,
according to Canadian trade ministry data. Obama’s action on the
Canada-U.S. pipeline hasn’t soured relations, Canadian Trade
Minister Ed Fast told reporters in  Washington  today.  “The trade relationship between Canada and the United
States remains strong,” he said. Obama rejected a permit for
Calgary-based  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL project, citing
too little time under a deadline set by Congress.  Under the 2006 lumber agreement, the U.S. agreed to stop
imposing duties designed to deter unfair practices, and Canada
agreed to apply export charges and volume limits on U.S.
shipments when wood prices fell below a certain level. The
agreement is being extended without changes, according to a
statement from the U.S. Trade Representative’s office.  “The administration’s record on softwood lumber
demonstrates our steadfast commitment to ensuring fair trade
that benefits American businesses and workers,” U.S. Trade
Representative  Ron Kirk  said in a statement.  On Keystone XL, Fast said the 1,661-mile (2,673-kilometer)
pipeline from Canada to refineries along the U.S. Gulf coast
will be approved. Obama is letting TransCanada file a revised
route that avoids an environmentally sensitive area in  Nebraska .  “If the project is evaluated and assessed on its merits,
it will be approved,” Fast said. “I share the prime minister’s
deep disappointment that the decision was made to turn down the
application. I also note President Obama went out of his way to
invite TransCanada to reapply.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa  at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  