-- Canadian Dollar Rises on Global Economic Growth Outlook, Gain in Crude Oil
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-01-23T22:10:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/canadian-dollar-rises-on-global-economic-growth-outlook-gain-in-crude-oil.html
Canada ’s dollar appreciated versus
its U.S. counterpart to within a cent of parity as  crude oil ,
the nation’s largest export, advanced and the outlook for global
economic growth improved.  The Canadian currency added to last week’s rally as an
 index (MXWO)  of stocks in developed nations gained. Leading economic
indicators increased for a sixth month in December, rising 0.8
percent, Statistics Canada said today. Oil rose for the first
time in four days after the European Union agreed to ban oil
imports from Iran.  “It’s still general risk sentiment” that’s helping the
Canadian dollar, John Curran, a senior vice president in Toronto
at CanadianForex Ltd., an online foreign-exchange dealer, said
in a telephone interview. “I think it’s crazy that people are
buying Canada against the U.S. dollar at these levels. It’s all
going to go pear-shaped once  Europe  comes back into view. People
are still thinking no news is good news.”  The currency, nicknamed the loonie, appreciated 0.5 percent
to C$1.0086 per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. Toronto time. One Canadian
dollar buys 99.15 U.S. cents. The Canadian dollar rose 1 percent
last week.  Oil for March delivery gained $1.41 cents, or 1.4 percent,
to $99.87 a barrel. The EU’s sanctions raised concern that
retaliation from the Islamic Republic may disrupt oil supply
from the  Middle East .  The MSCI World Index rose 0.6 percent. The Standard &
Poor’s TSX/Composite Index, Canada’s main stock gauge, advanced
1 percent.  Government Bonds  Canadian government  bonds  fell for a fourth day, driving
benchmark 10-year yields up two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 2.09 percent. The 3.25 percent securities due in June
2021 dropped 21 cents to C$109.86.  “The Canadian dollar is benefiting from tentative signs of
cyclical rebound in global economic growth,”  Lee Hardman , a
currency strategist in  London  at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ
Ltd., wrote in an e-mail message. “While it is still too early
to give the ‘all-clear,’ given downside risks to growth still
out there, the market appears to be prepared to give it the
benefit of the doubt.”  The rise in Canada’s  leading economic indicators  followed a
November increase that was revised to 0.9 percent from 0.8
percent, Ottawa-based  Statistics Canada  said. Economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News forecast a 0.6 percent rise for
December, based on the median of eight estimates. The average
monthly increase over the past decade is 0.4 percent.  Australian Dollar  The Canadian dollar also traded within one tenth of a cent
of a 15-year low versus its Australian counterpart. The loonie
was little changed at C$1.0617 today, after dropping to C$1.0663
yesterday. It reached C$1.0666 per Australian dollar Oct. 28,
the weakest level since May 1997.  “The Canadian dollar is underperforming other risk-
sensitive currencies after Mr. Carney expanded upon his doom-
and-gloom outlook for global growth and the Canadian economy,”
John Curran, a senior vice president in Toronto at CanadianForex
Ltd., an online foreign-exchange dealer, said in a note to
clients referring to Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney . Carney
said yesterday Canada must explore new export markets such as
 China  because the economy of the U.S., Canada’s biggest trading
partner, may take years to recover from its current struggles.  The weakness in the  U.S. economy  is costing about C$30
billion ($29.6 billion) in lost Canadian exports, Carney said in
an interview on CTV’s ‘Question Period.’  Canada’s dollar is the sixth best-performing major currency
against the  U.S. dollar  today, according to a Bloomberg measure
tracking 16 currencies. Norway’s krone is the best-performing
currency and Taiwan’s dollar is the worst.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net ;
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  