-- Chemicals Used During Medical Imaging Test May Damage Thyroid, Study Finds
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2012-01-23T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/chemicals-used-in-imaging-tests-may-damage-thyroid.html
Chemicals used to enhance pictures
obtained from medical imaging tests may lead to overactive or
underactive thyroid glands, a study showed.  Patients injected with contrast material were about twice
as likely as those who didn’t get the chemical to develop
hyperthyroidism, when the gland produces too much thyroid
hormone and can cause rapid or irregular heart rates, according
to a study today in the  Archives of Internal Medicine . Results
also showed an increased risk for hypothyroidism.  The use of the chemicals, called iodinated contrast media,
has risen in the past two decades as more people get computed
tomography scans and heart catheterizations, which are used to
diagnose and treat some heart conditions, the researchers said.
Companies that make iodinated contrast material include
Fairfield, Connecticut-based  General Electric Co. (GE) , Leverkusen,
Germany-based  Bayer AG (BAYN)  and Paris-based Guerbet Group.  “There is this association and people should be mindful of
it, they shouldn’t panic,”  Steven Brunelli , the study’s senior
author and director of dialysis services at Brigham and Women’s
Hospital in Boston, said today in a telephone interview. “They
and their health care provider should be aware so that this
could factor into discretionary testing and to undergo follow-up
thyroid testing when appropriate.”  Doctors should discuss whether alternative imaging tests
are available and if not, check some patients’ thyroids after
the tests are completed, said Brunelli, an assistant professor
of medicine at  Harvard Medical School .  Iodine’s Role  The  thyroid , a gland shaped like a butterfly and located in
the neck, uses iodine to make thyroid hormone. In most cases, if
a large amount of iodine, like that found in iodinated contrast
media, gets into the body, the thyroid would either shut down
thyroid hormone production or the body would decrease the amount
of iodine it allows to get into the thyroid, said  Elizabeth
Pearce , an associate professor of medicine at  Boston  University
School of Medicine, who wrote an accompanying editorial in the
journal.  In some people, when an influx of iodine occurs, the body’s
defense mechanisms may not happen, causing patients to develop
hyperthyroidism and strain on the heart, she said. They may also
develop  hypothyroidism , when not enough thyroid hormone is made,
she said.  The researchers looked at patients from January 1990 to
June 2010 who didn’t have any thyroid disease. They also checked
to see if they were exposed to iodinated contrast media.  They found that 178 people developed hyperthyroidism, and,
of those, 11 percent received contrast agents.  Long-Term Health Concern  Brunelli said it would appear that once a patient develops
hyperthyroidism it becomes a long-term health issue.  The study also showed that 213 developed hypothyroidism and
of those, 12 percent received contrast agents. Those who used
contrast were 1.5 times more likely than those who didn’t to
develop hypothyroidism, a finding the researchers couldn’t rule
out was due to chance, Brunelli said.  Today’s paper is the first to study if receiving contrast
for imaging tests harms thyroid function, the researchers said.
Brunelli said it’s unclear why some people who receive the
chemicals are fine and others may develop thyroid problems.
Those who have  goiters , or nodules on their thyroids or those
with undiagnosed  Graves disease , an autoimmune disorder, may be
at an increased risk, he said.  “What’s interesting about these findings just seems to be
that this is occurring,” Pearce, who wrote the accompanying
editorial, said today in a telephone interview. “People who
have underlying poor health, those are people who may not
tolerate even short-term hyperthyroidism. Hyperthyroidism puts a
strain on the heart. It’s always reasonable to ask a provider
before you have a study why and make sure there’s a reasonable
explanation for why you’re doing it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  