-- Chesapeake Cuts Natural-Gas Output as Prices Hit 10-Year Low
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2012-01-23T21:21:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/chesapeake-energy-to-cut-rig-count-to-24-new-wells-for-2012.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) , the second-
largest U.S. natural-gas producer, will cut output, idle
drilling rigs and reduce spending in gas fields by 70 percent
after prices for the fuel hit a 10-year low.  Gross production at wells it operates will drop by as much
as 1 billion cubic feet a day and the Oklahoma City-based
company will defer gas-well completions wherever possible,
according to a statement today. Chesapeake, which accounts for
about 9 percent of U.S. gas output, will cut spending on gas
wells to $900 million this year from $3.1 billion in 2011.  Natural gas for February delivery rose 7.8 percent, the
most since Dec. 10, 2009, to settle at $2.525 per million
British thermal units on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  after
the announcement. They had fallen by half in the past year and
declined the most among the Standard & Poor’s  GSCI Spot Index (SPGSCI)  of
raw materials.  “Chesapeake is a big player,”  Scott Hanold , a
Minneapolis-based analyst for  RBC Capital Markets  who rates
Chesapeake at “sector-perform” and owns no shares, said today
in a telephone interview. “It’s going to be a collective effort
by the industry to right the market and you’ll see more
announcements this quarter.”  Chesapeake shares  rose  6.3 percent to close at $22.28 in
 New York . Also today, the U.S. Energy Department cut its
estimate of gas in the Marcellus shale formation by 66 percent,
to 482 million cubic feet, citing improved data from drilling
and production.  Idling Rigs  Gas sold from U.S. output in 2011 rose by about 4.5 billion
cubic feet a day, or 7.4 percent, the largest annual gain in
history, according to the  Energy Information Administration .
U.S. production and reserves have been driven by the increased
use of hydraulic fracturing, the practice of injecting water,
sand and chemicals underground to release gas from shale-rock
formations.  Chesapeake said it will “immediately curtail” output of
500 million cubic feet a day, 8 percent of production, and will
idle half its drilling rigs by the second quarter in fields that
produce only gas, including the  Barnett Shale  of Texas, the
Marcellus Shale and the Haynesville Shale.  Spending on undeveloped leases will fall to $1.4 billion in
2012 from $3.4 billion in 2011 and will be limited to areas
where the company already is active, Chesapeake said.  Chesapeake’s output curtailment follows  EQT Corp. (EQT) ’s Jan. 20
announcement that it will suspend drilling in its Huron Field in
Kentucky.  Southwestern Energy Co. (SWN)  Chief Executive Officer Steven Mueller said in a Jan. 5 interview his company may slow
production in Arkansas’s Fayetteville Shale if prices stay low.  Exxon Mobil Corp. is the largest U.S. gas producer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  