-- Christie Nominees to Supreme Court Include First Asian-American Justice
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-01-23T20:50:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/christie-nominees-to-supreme-court-include-first-asian-american-justice.html
New Jersey (STONJ1)  Governor Chris Christie
said he wants to put the first-ever Asian-American and an openly
gay justice on the state’s  Supreme Court , after denying tenure
for the bench’s only black member.  Bruce Harris, 61, a Republican and mayor of Chatham, would
be the first openly gay justice and the third black on the high
court. Phil Kwon, 44, who isn’t registered as a member of any
party, would be the first Asian-American and the first
immigrant, Christie, 49, a Republican, said today at a press
conference in Trenton.  “Not only do their different backgrounds and career paths
bring distinctive and important perspectives to the court, Bruce
and Phil also capture our state’s diversity,” Christie said.
“This is an important moment in our state’s history and our
country’s history that signals how far we’ve all come.”  Christie said he hasn’t spoken to either nominee about past
or future cases before the court, including the issue of gay
marriage. His announcement comes a day before lawmakers begin
hearings on a Democratic effort to make same-sex marriage legal.
The governor, who said last year that he is “not a fan” of the
practice, told reporters today that the nomination of Harris
shouldn’t be interpreted as a sign he has changed his mind on
the issue.  Gay Marriage  Christie’s predecessor, Democrat  Jon Corzine , signed a
measure in 2006 to allow civil unions, after the high court
ordered lawmakers to extend marital rights to gay and lesbian
couples. In 2008, a state panel created to evaluate the
effectiveness of civil unions said it doesn’t provide the same
benefits and protections as marriage.  New Jersey Democrats failed to pass a gay marriage bill two
years ago. It was defeated in the Senate 20-14 with three
abstaining, including Senate President  Stephen Sweeney , who
later said he made a mistake in not voting for the measure. The
bill never reached the desk of Corzine, who supported it.  Steven Goldstein, chairman of Garden State Equality, a
group that has fought to make gay marriage legal, said his jaw
“dropped” when Christie called to notify him of the planned
announcement minutes before it was made. Goldstein said he and
Christie didn’t discuss the marriage issue.  “Today was a landmark for the civil-rights movement by the
governor, independent of where he stands on marriage equality,
and I would caution anyone against reading the tea leaves on
that,” Goldstein said in a telephone interview. “We can’t draw
any conclusions.”  Court Rulings  Christie has accused the high court of “legislating from
the bench” by forcing governors and lawmakers to raise spending
to comply with its decisions. Examples he has cited include the
Abbott v. Burke school-funding cases and the Mount Laurel
Affordable housing rulings.  Harris is an attorney who most recently worked at the law
firm of Greenberg Traurig and focused on public finance and
commercial lending. He holds degrees from  Amherst College ,
Boston University School of Management and Yale Law School, and
would step down as mayor to accept the court job, Christie said.  Kwon, who was born in  Korea  and is a resident of Closter,
is currently first assistant Attorney General and previously
worked with Christie in the U.S. Attorney’s Office. He holds
degrees from  Georgetown University  and Rutgers Law School.
Neither nominee has served as a sitting judge, Christie said.  Senate Approval  The nominations need approval from the Senate, which is
controlled by Democrats. Sweeney, a West Deptford Democrat, held
up Christie’s May 2010 Supreme Court nomination of Anne Patterson for a year, saying the governor’s unprecedented move
to deny tenure to a sitting Supreme Court justice,  John Wallace ,
had politicized the court.  Wallace was the court’s only black justice at the time. The
current six members are all white, and include four women. The
addition of Patterson created the first female majority in the
history of court, and one of only five in the nation, according
to Christie’s office.  “The addition of even one member on a seven-member court
can be significant -- with two new members even more so,” said
former Justice Peter Verniero, who was appointed to the bench in
1999 and stepped down in 2004 to return to private practice.
“This is a very significant day for the court.”  ‘Philosophically Independent’  Verniero said one of the areas that may be most affected by
the spate of Christie nominees is in deciding which cases reach
the court. A prospective case must receive votes from three
justices to be put on the panel’s docket.  Harris and Kwon will fill the openings created by the
departure of Wallace and the March 1 retirement of Justice
Virginia Long, Christie said. Democrats in the Senate should
give the two men quick hearings, the governor said.  “As with all nominees, the process must still run its
course,” Sweeney said in a statement. “While we undergo that
process, it is vital that we ensure the court remain as
philosophically independent as possible. I look forward to a
full and proper vetting of these nominees and to learning of how
they view their role on the court.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  