-- Concordia Insurance Claims May Touch $1 Billion If It Sinks, Moody’s Says
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o
-- 2012-01-23T16:48:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/concordia-cruise-ship-insurance-costs-may-reach-1-billion-moody-s-says.html
The insurance costs related to the
sinking of  Carnival Corp. (CCL) ’s Costa Concordia off the coast of
Italy may reach $1 billion once environmental damage and
injuries are added to the count, Moody’s Investors Service said.  The shipwreck “marks the first major insured loss of 2012
and will result in a drag on first-quarter 2012 earnings for
affected firms,” Moody’s Senior Credit Officer James Eck wrote
in a note published today.  While damage to the ship will cost around $500 million,
other items like personal injury and liability and environmental
losses may bring up the final bill, the report said. Reinsurers
will likely take on most of the burden, Moody’s said.  In a separate report, Jefferies International Ltd.
estimated the total cost at 650 million euros ($850 million).  The Costa Concordia, carrying 4,200 passengers and crew for
a Mediterranean cruise, struck rocks and ran aground off  Italy ’s
small Giglio Island on Jan. 13. The accident resulted in the
sinking of the ship, leaving 15 dead and 24 still missing.  Most of the losses will be incurred by reinsurers, Moody’s
said.  Munich Re (ARN) , the world’s biggest reinsurer, said Jan. 18 its
estimated claims would be in the “mid double-digit-million-euro
range,” while  Hannover Re  said today it estimates total losses
of about 30 million euros. Specialty insurer Lancashire Holdings
will likely face between $20 million and $30 million in claims,
according to Jefferies.  “The earnings drag from this loss event will impede
capital growth for affected firms and contribute to the
perception among investors that the reinsurance sector cannot
earn its cost of capital,” Moody’s said.  The Costa Concordia was also insured by companies such as
 Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G) ,  RSA Insurance Group Plc (RSA)  and  XL Group
Plc (XL) , according to Jefferies.  Operations to remove the ship’s 500,000 gallons of fuel may
start as early as tomorrow, Bart Huizing of Royal Boskalis
Westminster NV’s Smit Salvage said today at a press conference.
His company will be handling removal of the fuel which may take
about 28 working days, he said.  So far there is no evidence of leaking oil, according to
Italy’s Civil Protection Agency.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  