-- Credit Suisse Bonuses to Include Bonds as Bank Transfers Risk to Employees
-- B y   B r a d l e y   K e o u n
-- 2012-01-23T19:44:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/credit-suisse-bonuses-to-include-bonds-created-from-derivatives-memo-says.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  plans to pay
a portion of senior employees’ 2011 bonuses in bonds backed by
derivatives, reviving a maneuver from 2008 that helped the firm
dispose of risky assets while preserving the value for staff.  “We are trying to strike the right balance and align
employees with shareholders,” Chief Executive Officer  Brady Dougan  wrote in a memo to staff. It’s “a risk transfer from the
firm to employees.” Suzanne Fleming, a spokeswoman for Zurich-
based Credit Suisse, confirmed the memo’s contents and declined
to comment further.  Credit Suisse created the derivative-bond bonuses, which
employees will receive in addition to cash bonuses and
restricted stock, after a drop-off in trading and deal-making in
2011 led the biggest Wall Street firms to rein in compensation.
In 2008, during the depths of the U.S. financial crisis, Credit
Suisse gave employees shares in a $5.05 billion pool of junk-
grade corporate loans and bonds backed by commercial mortgages.  Banks including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
cut bonuses after anxiety about  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis
helped depress profits and share prices last year. Morgan
Stanley also increased the percentage of 2011 pay packages
deferred to future years to 75 percent, from 40 percent two
years ago, people briefed on the matter said last week.  Bonus Bonds  Credit Suisse,  Switzerland ’s second-biggest lender, is
among  European banks  that face pressure from regulators to
bolster capital, the cushion of equity between a bank’s assets
and liabilities that’s meant to protect depositors and senior
creditors.  Banks seek to comply with regulators’ demands partly by
divesting illiquid loans and fixed-income securities. Europe’s
lenders have pledged to cut more than 950 billion euros ($1.2
trillion) of assets over the next two years.  The new Credit Suisse bonus bonds are backed by “a
diversified portfolio of derivative counterparty risks” linked
to about 800 entities “spread across industries and
geographies,” Dougan, 52, wrote in the memo. The portfolio
covers about 18 percent of the credit exposure in the firm’s
derivatives business and is 94 percent investment-grade, Dougan
wrote.  “It is important to adapt quickly to the new requirements
and environment so that we get to a sustainable business
model,” Dougan wrote. “Accelerating our strategic evolution
will be a tremendous competitive advantage in the coming
years.”  Absorb Losses  The memo didn’t specify the amount of the bonds to be
awarded to employees or the total amount of assets included.  Credit Suisse will absorb the first $500 million of losses
on the portfolio, reducing the risks for employees, according to
the memo. The bonds mature in nine years and will pay a coupon
of 5 percent for Swiss franc holders and 6.5 percent in U.S.
dollars “for holders elsewhere,” Dougan wrote.  By comparison, 10-year U.S. Treasuries currently yield
about 2.1 percent.  “This is an at-risk investment, but our best estimation
from actual experience is that this will pay its interest and
principal in full,” Dougan wrote in the memo.  The toxic bonuses awarded in 2008 turned out to be almost
as good as gold, returning 75 percent from the end of that year
through Nov. 30, compared with 98 percent for the precious
metal, people with knowledge of the results said. Credit Suisse
shares tumbled 23 percent in that period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Keoun in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  