-- CTC Media to Stem Ratings Losses With Own Shows, Troika Says
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-01-23T21:24:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/ctc-media-to-stem-ratings-losses-with-own-shows-troika-says-1-.html
CTC Media Inc. (CTCM) , the U.S.-traded
owner of  Russia ’s fifth-largest television channel, will stem
ratings losses this year by switching to locally produced series
that are less expensive to air than imported shows, according to
Troika Dialog.  CTC Media began airing “Doctor Zaitseva’s Diary,” this
month, a romantic drama set in Russia and produced in house, and
will start broadcasting a new comedy series called “Eighties”
on Jan. 30, according to the company’s website.  “They are learning from their past mistakes and are now
concentrating on relatively inexpensive and yet popular-with-
Russian-audiences in-house productions, as opposed to
broadcasting expensive Hollywood blockbusters,” said  Anna Lepetukhina , an analyst in Moscow at Troika, Russia’s oldest
brokerage. “While 2011 was extremely bad for CTC Media, 2012
can prove to be a turning point for them. They can for sure
stabilize their share of the audience.”  Troika rates CTC Media’s shares a “buy,” with a price
target of $22.80.  The stock  rose 2.8 percent to $9.97 by the end
of trading in New York, the biggest advance since Jan. 3. The
shares dropped 63 percent last year.  The average daily share of viewers for CTC Media’s
television channel, the company’s biggest source of advertising
revenue, fell to below 7 percent last month, from 7.5 percent in
November and 7.9 percent in October, according to weekly data
from  TNS Gallup Media . CTC media uses TNS Gallup data in its
financial reports.  Troika, whose takeover by state-owned OAO Sberbank was
completed today, forecasts advertising spending in Russia will
increase by as much as 9 percent in 2012 from 2011, with as much
as 6 percent growth in spending on television, according to the
report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in  New York  at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  