-- Davos Man Diminished by Scandal With Murdoch Perennials Missing
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2012-01-23T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/davos-man-diminished-by-scandal-with-murdoch-perennials-missing.html
Davos Man is approaching his annual
Alpine get-together with humility after spending the past year
getting fired, arrested, belittled and occupied.  When the  World Economic Forum ’s conference gets under way
in the Swiss ski resort tomorrow, several past stars will be
missing from the swirl of policy debates and cocktail parties.  News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch  is embroiled in a phone
hacking scandal. Oswald Gruebel quit as chief executive officer
of  UBS AG (UBSN)  after a $2.3 billion loss from unauthorized trading.
Philipp Hildebrand left the  Swiss National Bank  in a furor over
his wife’s currency transactions. Dominique Strauss-Kahn
resigned as International Monetary Fund Managing Director after
sexual-assault charges, later dropped, were filed against him.  As “OccupyWEF” protesters build igloos under the eye of
Swiss security forces, the leaders of this year’s Davos may try
to profit from the mistakes of their predecessors by embracing
transparency and ethics.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  CEO Vikram Pandit, a co-
chairman of the meeting, is calling for the financial industry
to be more open amid panel discussions with such titles as “Is
20th-century capitalism failing 21st-century society?”  “Davos Man has taken on the lessons of recent years and is
asking how to do things differently,” said Richard Edelman,
president and chief executive officer of public relations agency
Edelman, who is attending the conference. Businesses and policy
makers are having to “process accurately the vox populi.”  Trust Indicator  The need for them to do so is demonstrated by Edelman’s
annual poll on  trust , released yesterday in conjunction with the
Davos meeting. Trust in government fell a record nine percentage
points to 43 percent, while faith in business slid to 53 percent
from 56 percent.  The credibility of CEOs slid 12 points to 38 percent, the
largest drop in nine years, and banks and financial services
remained the two least trusted industries. The online survey
questioned a total of 30,600 people in at least 25 countries
from Oct. 10 to Nov. 30 last year.  “Davos Man is not this caricature of the rich and powerful
person,”   Klaus Schwab , founder of the forum, said in a
Bloomberg Television interview yesterday. “Davos Man is a person
who, as I define it, should be concerned with the present state
of the world and who should be ready to engage and contribute so
that the state of the world is improved.”  International Visions  The term “Davos Man” was created by the late Samuel Huntington, a professor at  Harvard University  in Cambridge,
 Massachusetts , to describe those who have international visions 
and view the only use of governments as easing “the elite’s 
global operations.”  The 42nd annual meeting of the World Economic Forum
embodies the “one percent,” to use the phrase popularized by
the young protesters who spent more than eight weeks occupying
 New York ’s Zuccotti Park last year.  Among scheduled attendees are bank CEOs such as Pandit and
 Jamie Dimon  of  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and corporate chiefs  Peter Voser  of  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and Cisco Systems Inc.’s John Chambers. At least 70 billionaires are to be present, including
investor  George Soros  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  founder  Bill Gates .
They will join about 2,600 other delegates discussing the world
outlook by day and touring hotel bars at night.  The image of financial, corporate and governmental powers
have taken a hit as the “occupy” protests, the Arab Spring
uprisings and recent marches in Moscow highlighted rising
unemployment and income inequality, said Tina Fordham, senior
global political analyst at Citigroup and a member of the
forum’s Global Agenda Council. It helps shape the forum’s work.  Protest Potential  There is “a reduced willingness to tolerate the perceived
excess of elites and the old social order, and heightened
potential for protests to cause disruption, violence and
pressure to alter the legislative agenda,” she said.  Not everyone has gotten the message. Three years after he
used the Davos stage to pledge  Russia  wouldn’t turn toward
“isolationism and unbridled economic egoism” and as he seeks
to return to the presidency, Prime Minister Vladimir Putin is
facing the biggest protests against his rule in 12 years. They
were sparked by alleged fraud in the Dec. 4 parliamentary
election, in which his United Russia party retained power.  In the financial world, Davos Man took a pay cut.  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  CEO James Gorman, who is scheduled to attend the forum,
had his 2011 pay reduced by 25 percent from a year earlier.
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  cut average compensation and benefits
expenses 21 percent in the same period. Pandit did get $3.7
million in stock as Citigroup reported a 6.4 percent increase in
full-year profit last week.  More Tweeters  Ian Bremmer, president of Eurasia Group Ltd., a New York-
based investment consultancy, detects a generational transition.
While Murdoch, 80, began posting on Twitter last month, it’s
executives less than half his age who will be more alert to the
demands of consumers and to accepting less privacy given the
rise of social media, he said.  As younger leaders “start taking a role and grow in
influence and importance, then you’ll see a different
sensibility in terms of how they interact with the global
public,” said Bremmer.  There will be plenty of room for them.  Murdoch -- whom Schwab once said used 1993’s Davos
conference to arrange his takeover of Star TV -- is absent
again. A year ago, he canceled his participation in a panel
discussion at the forum as U.K. police stepped up an
investigation into phone-hacking allegations by  News Corp. (NWSA) 
newspapers. Last July, he told the British Parliament that
testifying about his company’s hacking was “the most humble day
of my life.”  Rogue Trading  News Corp. spokesman Jack Horner said Murdoch was busy this
year.  Gruebel, who two years ago was privately huddling in Davos
with counterparts to discuss how to reassert their influence
with regulators and governments, quit in September after UBS
fell victim to a rogue trader.  High-profile locals are also missing from Davos this year.
Hildebrand, who as a student worked in the resort as a bell boy
and limousine driver, is a no-show after he resigned as SNB
president this month. His credibility was questioned following
the disclosure his wife bought $504,000 in the days before the
SNB imposed a currency cap on the franc.  Two former Davos stars have been incarcerated in the last year.
Strauss-Kahn, who as IMF chief used a Davos debate four years
ago to push governments to ease fiscal policy, is back in Paris
after being arrested in New York last year and charged with
attempted rape and sexual assault.  Libyan Comedown  Saif al-Islam Qaddafi, the son of the former Libyan
dictator, was named a Young Global Leader at the forum in 2006.
He was captured by rebels in November while trying to flee to
Niger a month after his father was killed in  Libya ’s overthrow.  Some of the falls from grace reflect the aftershocks of the
recent credit crisis and the resulting pushes for greater income
and democratic equality, said Nariman Behravesh, chief economist
at Englewood, Colorado-based IHS Inc. and a Davos delegate.  “Severe income disparity” was cited as one of the
greatest threats to global prosperity over the next decade in
the forum’s annual review of risks published Jan. 11.  Organizers have made some nods to the emerging theme. The
opening panel on capitalism in modern times will involve  Bank of
America Corp.  CEO Brian Moynihan and Sharan Burrow, general
secretary of the International Trade Union Confederation. Later
in the week, the role of business in society will be discussed,
as will whether banks are a cure or curse for the world economy.  “The focus on ethics and responsibility and social justice
will be much greater this time around,” said Behravesh.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  