-- Deadline Approaches on Survival of Newspapers: Nathan Myhrvold
-- B y   N a t h a n   M y h r v o l d
-- 2012-01-23T00:00:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/deadline-approaches-on-survival-of-newspapers-nathan-myhrvold.html
These days, one of the saddest
stories on Page 1 is about newspapers themselves. All over the
country, venerable old dailies are shedding reporters, editors
and other workers.  In my hometown, the Seattle  Post-Intelligencer  stopped its
presses for good in 2009, as did the  Rocky Mountain News , in
Denver. In the past few years, major papers have gone bankrupt
in Philadelphia,  Minneapolis  and other cities, as circulation
and advertising revenue have plummeted. Even the proud  New York
Times  recently needed a $250 million loan from  Carlos Slim , a
Mexican multibillionaire.  Just a decade ago, newspapers were still the primary
conduit for local information. Where else could the neighborhood
furniture store advertise a sale; the local factory attract new
workers; or town residents sell their used cars or sofas? The
paper used to be dropped daily on almost every stoop in town.  For much of the early 20th century, the newspaper business
was both profitable and competitive.  New York City  still had
 seven  dailies in 1960, spanning a full range of political
philosophy and journalistic style. Movies such as “ Citizen Kane ”
and “ The Front Page ” portrayed an era when driven newspapermen
would do anything to get a story. The U.K.’s rough-and-tumble
Fleet Street remains something of a throwback to that era, as
demonstrated by the recent phone-hacking scandal -- which led to
the demise of yet another century-old paper, the News of the
World.  Selling the News  The great winnowing of the industry began slowly, as the
rise of television siphoned off much of the national advertising
business. Even then, most cities retained one or two papers
operating profitably as monopolies or duopolies. Newsrooms took
this privileged economic position for granted; they began
thinking of themselves as selling news rather than ads.
Competition based on journalism, they rationalized, would drive
readership, and ad revenue would follow.  In market research I did at Microsoft Corp. in the early
1990s, I estimated that the  Wall Street Journal  took in about 75
cents per copy from subscribers, $1.25 at the newsstand and a
whopping $5 per copy from ads. The ad revenue let them run a far
bigger newsroom than subscribers were paying for. It was a
bargain for readers and a boon for journalists, who were able to
travel to distant assignments and do in-depth reporting.  The trouble was, the tie between excellent journalism and
revenue worked only so long as the ads did. New online formats
gutted the newspaper-ad business.      Why pore over tiny print
looking for a job in the want ads when you can tap a few
keywords into monster.com, then click through and apply? Why pay
a steep per-character rate for a classified when you can hawk a
whole garage full of used stuff on EBay or Craigslist for free?
In so many ways, Match.com, OkCupid.com and hundreds of others
offer a better experience than personal ads can.
RottenTomatoes.com tells you what movies to watch, Fandango.com
lets you book the tickets, and OpenTable.com gets you a dinner
reservation.  Newspaper websites tried offering these services, too, but
it wasn’t their strength, and they failed to keep up. It didn’t
help that online sites such as Google News could serve up most
of the news without ever hiring a reporter; they just aggregate
information from many free news sites. Newspapers’ trump card
had been the local information that they alone offered, but the
Internet was simultaneously better at both local and global
information distribution.  At least when television burst on the scene in the 1950s,
it largely spared classified and truly local advertising. It
also created its own journalism; some of the revenue that
television diverted from newspapers was reinvested in TV news.
In contrast, the new forms of  Internet advertising  rarely
support news gathering, or content creation of any sort.
Instead, most of the ad money now goes to infrastructure
technology that connects people with ads,  search engines  such as
Google, or social networks such as Facebook.  Who Will Pay  The dilemma for early 21st century journalism is this: Who
will pay for the news? This column is part of an experiment in
one direction. Bloomberg makes its money providing proprietary
financial information to subscribers, and this business has not
been hurt by the Internet, so it can afford to offer a good old-
fashioned op-ed page without ad subsidy. As the saying goes,
it’s nice work if you can get it. But this model won’t extend
very far because there aren’t a long list of similarly situated
data providers dying to support journalism.  Filmmakers and book publishers have never relied much on
advertising revenue; when we want to read “ The Girl With the
Dragon Tattoo ,” or watch “ Avatar ,” we know we need to pay
without an ad subsidy. Would the public be willing to pay full
price for journalism, too?  A few newspapers -- the  Economist , the Wall Street Journal,
the New York Times -- have started selling digital-only
subscriptions. It’s a first step, but they still plainly
consider their print editions to be the gold standard, so they
generate little unique digital content and fail to tap the full
potential of online news. Tellingly, their current web revenue
falls far short of what it would take to support their
newsrooms. Meanwhile, most online news sites are still free,
which tends to undercut the business model of those who charge.  The situation reminds me of the early 1970s, when cable
arrived in our neighborhood, and the adults in my family were
arguing over why anybody would pay for something they could
already get free. After all, with a set of rabbit ears, you
could tune in three major networks and plenty of local
affiliates, all supported entirely by ads.  Quality Cable TV  Initially, cable providers offered the same channels as
conventional broadcasters did, so picture quality was the
selling point. Cable cut down on ghosts and snow and having to
fuss with an antenna. Once improved reception got cable-TV
operators going, they shifted their selling proposition toward
quality -- and quantity -- of programming.  Ted Turner  started
 CNN . Others started  HBO ,  MTV  and Discovery, betting that
consumers would pay for a kind of television they never had
before.  It took 20 years, but the cable-TV industry prevailed. A
generation grew up thinking “I want my MTV.” Today, 85 percent
of American households subscribe to cable, satellite or
telephone-company TV, paying an average of $82 a month,
according to the research firm SNL Kagan. This revenue has been
a bonanza for TV production, financing some of the best
television shows ever made, all outside the original broadcast
networks.  Could newspaper journalism likewise entice readers to pay
for online news? People like quality journalism, so I believe
that, ultimately, they can be persuaded to pay for it. But as
with cable, the price will have to start low; it can then inch
upward as the public gradually accepts the new business model.  The question is whether paid-subscription news sites can
make the transition fast enough to make up for their plummeting
ad revenue. It takes time to persuade people to pay for
something they expect to get free. Ultimately, the change will
happen, but maybe not fast enough to save some of the great
institutions of newspaper journalism.  ( Nathan Myhrvold , the former chief strategist and chief
technology officer at Microsoft Corp. and the founder and chief
executive officer of  Intellectual Ventures , is a Bloomberg View
columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article: Nathan Myhrvold
at  nathanmyhrvold@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  