-- Defaulted Ivory Coast Eurobonds Rally
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-01-23T08:47:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/defaulted-ivory-coast-eurobonds-rally-before-investor-meeting.html
Ivory Coast ’s $2.3 billion of
defaulted Eurobonds jumped to an eight-month high on speculation
a meeting with investors today will be a first step toward
resuming payments.  The west African nation’s bonds due in 2032 surged 15
percent in the biggest two-week advance since April. The
Eurobonds gained 0.7 percent to 56.448 cents on the dollar as of
8:30 a.m. in  London , cutting the yield nine basis points to
12.441 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Finance
Minister Charles Koffi Diby is scheduled to speak at a meeting
with investors at 2:30 p.m. in London.  The world’s largest cocoa producer hasn’t paid interest on
its international debt since January 2011 when the refusal of
former President  Laurent Gbagbo  to cede power after the November
2010 election sparked a civil war. President  Alassane Ouattara 
took power last May and Norbert Kobenan, an aide to the finance
minister, said in November the country may resume interest
payments in June 2012.  Investors are expecting “not just a resumption of the
coupons but a potential capitalization of the missing coupons,”
said Jeremy Brewin, a  fund manager  who holds Ivory Coast debt
among about $4 billion of assets for Aviva Investors in London.
The bond price “is effectively assuming a very positive
outcome,” he said in a phone interview.  Ivory Coast issued its Eurobonds in April 2010. The
election seven months later triggered a five-month conflict and
caused as many as 3,000 deaths, according to the  International
Criminal Court . Gbagbo was arrested in Abidjan, the commercial
capital, in May and faces charges of crimes against humanity at
 The Hague , Netherlands-based court.  Brady Default  The government will discuss finding an “acceptable level”
of debt that will allow for repayment while financing
development, Bruno Kone, the government’s spokesman, told
reporters in Abidjan, on Jan. 18.  “I’m not expecting any big announcement,” said  Stuart Culverhouse , chief economist at Exotix Ltd., a London-based
investment bank which trades the Eurobonds. “It would be a
pleasant surprise if they did say something” but “having a
meeting with investors in London I don’t think is probably the
right vehicle to do that,” he said by phone on Jan. 20.  Last year’s default was the second for Ivory Coast since
2000 after it reneged on $3.5 billion of Brady bonds, securities
created as part of a debt restructuring plan for  developing
countries  and named after former U.S. Treasury Secretary
Nicholas Brady.  Back to Growth  The 2032 Eurobonds traded as high as 58.883 cents on the
dollar in May as Ouattara was inaugurated as president. His
party won a majority of seats in the first election of lawmakers
in a decade last month. The economy is set to grow 8.5 percent
this year after a 5.8 percent contraction in 2011, according to
the  Finance Ministry .  “The fact they’ve actually come out and invited investors
to meet with them is a very positive sign,” said  John Bates ,
head of fixed income at London-based Silk Invest Ltd., which
manages $130 million and sold its holdings of Ivory Coast bonds
in January 2011.  “If they can show evidence the economy is back on track
and that the coupon payments are going to be resumed and the
missed payments are somehow going to be repatriated, I don’t see
any reason why the bonds shouldn’t trade up back towards”
levels above 60 cents on the dollar, Bates said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  