-- Default Swaps in U.S. Decline as European Leaders Meet on Crisis
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-01-23T22:33:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/default-swaps-in-u-s-decline-as-european-leaders-meet-on-crisis.html
A benchmark gauge of U.S. company
credit risk fell for a fifth day in the longest stretch of
decreases in more than a month on optimism European officials
may craft a long-term plan to contain the region’s debt crisis.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index of
credit-default swaps, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
slid 3.4 basis points to a mid-price of 102.7 basis points at
5:17 p.m. in  New York , according to Markit Group Ltd. Contracts
tied to the debt of  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY)  and  Caesars
Entertainment Corp. (HET)  also fell.  The gauge dropped to a five-month low as  Germany  and  France 
said talks between  Greece  and bondholders were making progress,
while a government official in Berlin said Germany may be open
to combining  Europe ’s two bailout mechanisms and boosting their
funding limit. Finance ministers meeting in Brussels today
agreed on all aspects of the European Stability Mechanism in a
deal to be signed on Jan. 30, Martti Salmi, an aide at Finland’s
 Finance Ministry  in Helsinki, said by telephone.  “Market sentiment is positive right now, but given all the
unknowns and all the uncertainties down the line, I’m a little
concerned about the extent of this rally,”  Mikhail Foux , a
credit strategist at Citigroup Inc. in New York, said in a
telephone interview.  The index, which typically falls as investor confidence
improves and rises as it deteriorates, touched the lowest level
since Aug. 5.  Ally Swaps Decline  Swaps tied to Ally declined 48.5 basis points to 508.3,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market. Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a
borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the
defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Contracts on Caesars eased 1.9 percentage points to 44
percent upfront, the data show. That’s in addition to 5 percent
a year, meaning it would cost $4.4 million initially and
$500,000 annually to protect $10 million of Caesar’s debt.  The U.S. two-year  interest-rate swap spread , a measure of
stress in credit markets, narrowed 0.53 basis point to 34.67
basis points. The measure falls when investors favor assets such
as corporate bonds and rises when they seek the perceived safety
of  government securities .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  