-- Diamondback Avoids Prosecution, Agrees to Pay $9 Million
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2012-01-23T20:07:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/diamondback-agrees-to-pay-9-million-to-settle-sec-claims.html
Diamondback Capital Management LLC
won’t be criminally prosecuted and will pay more than
$9 million to end an insider-trading investigation involving
 Dell Inc. (DELL)  and  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  stock.  Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said his office
agreed not to prosecute Diamondback for the actions of two
former employees,  Todd Newman , a former portfolio manager, and
Jesse Tortora, a former analyst. In a complaint filed last week,
prosecutors said the pair and five other men were part of a
“criminal club” of fund managers and analysts who swapped
illegal tips.  Newman, who began working at Diamondback in March 2006, was
charged with conspiracy to commit  securities fraud  and
securities fraud in the criminal complaint filed by Bharara’s
office on Jan. 18. Tortora has pleaded guilty and is cooperating
with the U.S., Bharara said. Newman, who hasn’t entered a plea,
was released on $3 million bond.  “The misconduct under investigation did not, and does not,
extend beyond the statement of facts and was not known by the
firm’s co-founders,” assistant U.S. attorneys Antonia Apps and
 David Leibowitz  said in court papers.  Lawyer’s Investigation  A lawyer hired by Diamondback concluded after an
investigation that certain trades by Newman and Tortora in Dell
and Nvidia resulted from material nonpublic information they
received from an unidentified expert-networking firm,
prosecutors said. The external probe found “no evidence that
either the conduct or the improper information” was known by
the firm’s co-founders, according to prosecutors.  Diamondback in late 2009 instructed so-called expert-
networking firms it used not to permit meetings or conference
calls with fund employees if the consultants were employed by
public companies, Bharara’s office said.  Diamondback today separately agreed to resolve a Jan. 18
Securities and Exchange Commission lawsuit over trades made in
2008 and 2009 by the former employees, the SEC said in a
statement.  The SEC filed claims against Diamondback, Newman and
Tortora last week as part of a wider insider-trading case that
involved five different  hedge funds  and investment firms. The
agency claimed Newman learned inside information about Dell’s
earnings in 2008 from Tortora.  Newman made $3.8 million in illegal profits for his hedge
fund by trading on the information, according to the complaint
filed in U.S. District Court in Manhattan.  FBI Raid  Diamondback, based in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , manages about
$2.5 billion, compared with about $5.8 billion in November 2010.
Investors pulled their money after the hedge fund’s offices were
raided by the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  that month.  “We are gratified finally to have reached closure on the
government proceedings, and deeply regret the difficulties
caused to our investors during the last 14 months,” Diamondback
said today in a letter to clients regarding the SEC.  Diamondback said the costs of the settlement -- a $3
million fine and surrender of $6 million in ill-gotten gains,
according to the SEC -- won’t be borne by investors and won’t
affect operations. The accord requires court approval.  “We believe that the proposed settlement appropriately
sanctions the misconduct while giving due credit to Diamondback
for its substantial assistance in the government’s investigation
and the pending actions against former employees and their co-
defendants,” George Canellos, head of the SEC’s regional office
in  New York , said in a statement.  Expert-networking firms connect investors with employees of
public companies who purportedly provide them with insight into
specific markets. Prosecutors said that sometimes material,
nonpublic information was passed during consultations and
conference calls.  The case is SEC v. Adondakis, 12-cv-409, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York federal court at
   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  