-- Dragon Oil Sees Delay in Turkmen Gas Deal on Weaker Demand
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2012-01-23T17:04:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/dragon-oil-sees-delay-in-turkmen-gas-sales-deal-on-weaker-demand.html
Dragon Oil Plc (DGO) , a U.K. explorer
focusing on  Turkmenistan , said it expects a delay in reaching a
natural-gas sales agreement with the Central Asian state because
demand for the fuel has weakened.  “The market for Turkmen gas is not improving,” Chief
Executive Officer Abdul Jaleel Al Khalifa said today by phone,
declining to estimate a timeframe for an accord. “We continue
to talk to them, we continue to monitor the market and assess
the situation, but have nothing firm right now.”  Dragon is seeking agreement on gas sales terms with the
government in Turkmenistan, where it has 3 trillion cubic feet
of resources, to add to revenue that rose to a record last year.
The Dubai-based company pumps out gas in conjunction with crude
oil in the country, which already produces its own fuel and has
held off striking an accord while demand remains muted.  Dragon plans to build a gas-treatment plant in the  Caspian
Sea  state, allowing it to strip liquids from the fuel before
selling it or burning it off. The company has reduced gas
burning, a process known as flaring, by injecting the fuel into
the Turkmen pipeline network, Al Khalifa said.  In the absence of a sales agreement, such injections into
the grid mean Dragon is effectively giving the gas away. The
company plans to award contracts to build the treatment facility
this year, and extract liquids from 2014.  Production Target  Dragon raised output 30 percent to about 61,500 barrels of
oil a day last year and targets a 15 percent gain in 2012, it
said today in a statement. The company may increase output
guidance in the second half, depending on the availability of
rigs and drilling results,  Al Khalifa  said. The explorer expects
to operate three or four rigs in the Caspian Sea this year.  Dragon rose 2.6 percent to 513 pence in  London , the highest
price in two months. The shares are up 12 percent since the
start of the year.  The company, which had $1.5 billion in cash at the end of
last year, is examining plans to join other exploration projects
in Central Asia, as well as in Iraq and  Africa . It expects to
revise investment plans this year as it commits to new projects
in Turkmenistan, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  