-- U.S. Panel Measuring Adequacy of Cures Lays Out Broad Agenda
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-01-23T21:19:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/health-care-delivery-to-be-analyzed-after-u-s-agency-expands-its-subjects.html
A U.S. agency formed to compare the
effectiveness of drugs and medical devices plans a broader
agenda that will study subjects such as whether care provided by
nurse-practitioners is as good as that of doctors.  The agency, called the  Patient-Centered Outcomes Research
Institute , was created by the 2010 health-care overhaul.
Republican opponents of the law say the institute will lead to
government-directed rationing as it judges treatments.
Representative Thaddeus McCotter, a Michigan Republican, has
introduced legislation to eliminate the agency.  “Over time, you’ll continue to see them begin to creep
into a rationing board,” he said in an interview last week.
“They’ll have to. They’re trying to defeat the law of supply
and demand.”  The institute will provide patients and doctors better
information about what treatments work, said Joe Selby, the
 executive director , in an interview today.  “Most people understand that this is a serious and new
kind of research, a serious and new mission,” he said. “When
you put the issue of patients’ and clinicians’ need for
information at the center, that’s just not a partisan issue.”  His board of directors includes health-care executives from
 Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s biggest drug maker,  Johnson & Johnson ,
 Medtronic Inc. (MDT)  and  Xerox Corp. (XRX)   The agency may spend as much as $2.5 billion on research
through 2019, the  Congressional Budget Office  estimates.
Comparing treatments will be one of five broad areas the agency
plans to explore, its leaders  said  today.  Research Priorities  Claims that the institute may become a rationing agency are
overblown, said  Dan Mendelson , CEO of Avalere Health, a
Washington health-care consulting firm.  “Health care services are rationed by a variety of
different agents throughout the health system,” Mendelson said
by phone. “The idea that you’re going to kill the concept of
rationing by killing this little government agency, I think it’s
far-fetched.”  Other research priorities for Selby’s agency include
studying disparities in care based on race and gender, the
quality of care provided by nurses and physician’s assistants
and shortening the time between lab discoveries and their
clinical use.  Over time, more money should be shifted to comparing
treatments, said U.S. Representative Kurt Schrader, an Oregon
Democrat who wrote legislation to create a comparative
effectiveness research agency in 2009. The provision of the
health law that created Selby’s institute echoes Schrader’s
bill, which had some Republican support at the time.  ‘Broader In Scope’  The research plan is “a little broader in scope” than he
envisioned when he wrote his bill, Schrader said in a telephone
interview. “The worry I would have is they are not going to get
down to specific projects.”  He said he supported many aims of the research plan,
especially investigating which care delivery systems work best.  The agency has proposed to dedicate about 40 percent of its
budget to comparing treatments, Selby said. It plans to spend
about $120 million this year on research grants, he said.  The plan is broad, because “there are critical questions
that patients and their caregivers face in just about every
area,” he said. “We start by allowing the possibility that we
will study any condition and any treatment.”  The institute plans to announce an initial round of about
40 grants, drawn from 856 applications, in May, Selby said. A
second round of grants, for projects linked to the research
agenda, will be issued in December, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  