-- Eastman Kodak Proposes Interest Rates on $950 Million DIP
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s
-- 2012-01-23T20:44:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/eastman-kodak-proposes-interest-rates-on-950-million-dip-1-.html
Eastman Kodak Co. (EK) , the photography
pioneer that filed for court protection, outlined the  interest
rates  it will pay for $950 million of debtor-in-possession
financing.  The company will pay 3.25 percentage points more than the
London interbank offered rate for a $250 million asset-based
revolving line of credit, according to a lender presentation
today on the company’s  website . Kodak will pay 7.5 percentage
points more than the benchmark for a $700 million  term loan . The
term loan has a 1 percent floor on Libor, according to the
presentation.  Kodak won a bankruptcy judge’s approval on Jan. 19 to
borrow as much as $650 million to support operations as it
pursues a sale of patents. The Rochester, New York-based company
will return to court for permission to borrow the full $950
million under its DIP financing agreement. Kodak needs
“immediate access” to the funds to refinance debt, pay
suppliers, and pay restructuring costs, it said in court papers.  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the sole arranger of the loan, held a call
with lenders at 2:30 p.m. in New York today to discuss the
financing, according to a person familiar with the terms, who
declined to be identified because the call wasn’t announced
publicly.  The term loan will be sold at a discount of 97 cents to
97.5 cents on the dollar, according to the lender presentation.  Christopher Veronda , a Kodak spokesman, didn’t return a
telephone call seeking comment.  Cash-Flow Forecast  The company said earlier today it was proposing to pay 8.5
percentage points more than Libor for the term loan, according
to a filing with the  Securities and Exchange Commission . The
rate was cut in part because of interest in the loan, the person
said.  Proceeds of its loan will go to pay its existing  revolving
loan , and to fund operations as the company reorganizes,
focusing on its most valuable businesses, including document
scanners and digital printing solutions, Kodak said in today’s
slide presentation.  Kodak forecast its  cash flow  for the next 13 weeks in the
presentation, saying it would have an ending operating  cash
balance  of $336.3 million for the week ended April 6.  The company tried to sell a portfolio of more than 1,100
digital-imaging patents and pursued royalties to fund a shift to
modern commercial and consumer digital printers.  The loan agreement for the Chapter 11 case requires filing
a motion with the  bankruptcy court  by June 30 seeking approval
of bidding procedures for the sale. The lenders must be given a
draft reorganization plan by Jan. 15, 2013. The plan and
disclosure statement must be filed by Feb. 15, 2013.  A group of noteholders objected to the financing request,
saying in court papers there should be “significant
restrictions” on Kodak’s ability to borrow and spend. Kodak
initially sought approval to borrow as much as $700 million on
an interim basis, according to court papers. It then agreed to
reduce the amount.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Haunss in  New York  at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  