-- Heating Oil Advances on EU Ban of Iran Oil, Refinery Shutdowns
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2012-01-23T16:13:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/heating-oil-advances-on-eu-ban-of-iran-oil-refinery-shutdowns.html
Heating oil rose on speculation that
 Europe  will import more diesel from the U.S. as European Union
foreign ministers agreed to ban oil from Iran starting July 1
and European refiners shut plants.  Futures climbed as much as 1.4 percent after the EU
ministers’ decision today. Iran has threatened to close the
Strait of Hormuz, which carries about 20 percent of the world’s
traded oil, if sanctions are imposed.  Petroplus Holdings AG (PPHN)  and
 LyondellBasell Industries NV (LYB)  have idled refineries in Europe.  “European distillate demand is over twice that of
gasoline,” said  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates
LLC in Houston. “We’ve already had a significant loss of
distillates in Europe because of the Petroplus refinery
shutdowns.”  February-delivery heating oil rose 3.19 cents, or 1.1
percent, to $3.0203 a gallon at 10:55 a.m. on the on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange . Futures have increased 2.9 percent
this year.  Petroplus, Europe’s largest independent refiner, has shut
three plants and is operating two others at reduced rates.
Petroplus, trying to avoid bankruptcy, has asked for its shares
to be suspended from trading.  Lyondell has decided to shut the 105,000-barrel-a-day Berre
refinery in  France  after failing to find a buyer.  Euro Gains  Futures also rallied after the euro gained against the
dollar as EU finance ministers met in Brussels to discuss new
budget rules to ease the region’s debt crisis. The euro advanced
0.9 percent against  the U.S. currency at 11:04 a.m. in  New
York . The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was up 0.3 percent.  “The dollar is under pressure and the stock market being
up a little is why we’re holding our gains,” said  Gene
McGillian , an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in
Stamford, Connecticut.  Gasoline for February delivery rose 1.36 cents, or 0.5
percent, to $2.798 a gallon on the exchange.  Regular gasoline  at the pump, averaged nationwide, fell 0.2
cent to $3.383 yesterday, according to AAA data. Prices were 8.7
percent higher than a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J. Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  