-- Megaupload Founder Kim Dotcom to Remain in Jail; Pink Cadillac, Art Seized
-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e
-- 2012-01-23T04:28:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/megaupload-founder-kim-dotcom-to-remain-in-jail-pink-cadillac-art-seized.html
Megaupload.com’s founder was ordered
by a  New Zealand  judge to remain in jail, three days after the
U.S. shut down the file-sharing website and police arrested him
in his mansion, seizing luxury cars, guns and art.  Kim Dotcom, the website’s German founder who legally
changed his name from Schmitz, was remanded to Jan. 25, when the
judge is scheduled to rule on his bail request, a court official
said by telephone. Dotcom and three other men appeared in court
in  Albany , a suburb of Auckland, on U.S. charges.  Police used helicopters in the raid on the so-called Dotcom
Mansion on Jan. 20, the eve of Dotcom’s 38th birthday, after the
U.S. government charged seven men in an alleged $175 million
copyright infringement conspiracy. Megaupload was advertised as
having more than 1 billion visitors, more than 150 million
users, 50 million daily visitors, and accounted for 4 percent of
 Internet traffic , prosecutors said.  “It was definitely not as simple as knocking at the front
door,” Detective Inspector Grant Wormald said of the raid in a
statement.  When police arrived at Dotcom’s leased Auckland home, he
entered his house and activated electronic locks, New Zealand
police said in the statement. They neutralized locks and cut
their way into a safe room, where Dotcom was found with what
looked like a sawed-off shotgun, according to the statement.  He denied any wrong doing at today’s hearing, according to
 stuff.co.nz  website.  Flight Risk  Prosecutor Anne Toohey urged the judge to deny Dotcom’s
request for bail, saying he was a flight risk, stuff.co.nz
reported.  Police also charged a 55-year-old New Zealand man at the
property with unlawful possession of a pistol. The man, whom
police didn’t name, was released on bail and is scheduled to
appear in court this week.  Police said they carried out 10 search warrants and seized
18  luxury vehicles , including a Rolls Royce Phantom Drophead
Coupe and a 1959 pink Cadillac. The vehicles are valued at NZ$6
million ($4.8 million). Police said as much as NZ$11 million in
cash was restrained in various accounts.  The four men were arrested Jan. 20 on U.S. charges of
criminal copyright infringement and money laundering, according
to a New Zealand police  statement . Three others were being
sought in connection with the case, the  U.S. Department of
Justice  said in a Jan. 19 statement.  Web Backlash  The accused have run websites that unlawfully copy works
including films, music and television programs for more than
five years, the U.S. said. The arrests occurred as the  U.S.
Congress  considers anti-piracy legislation supported by the
movie and music industries that prompted a backlash from
companies including Google Inc., the nonprofit Wikimedia
Foundation Inc. and Web consumers.  The conspiracy was led by Dotcom, a resident of  Hong Kong 
and New Zealand, and a dual citizen of Finland and  Germany , who
founded Megaupload Ltd., according to the indictment. Police
also arrested a Dutch citizen who lives in New Zealand and two
German nationals.  Opponents say the proposed U.S. anti-piracy laws -- Stop
Online Piracy Act in the House and the Protect IP Act in the
Senate -- would promote censorship, disrupt the Web’s
architecture and harm their ability to innovate. Votes on the
U.S. bills were postponed after legislators withdrew support
following the online protests.  New Zealand opposition politicians want an inquiry into how
Dotcom was able to stay permanently in Auckland, the stuff.co.nz
website  reported . He was able to settle there after investing
NZ$10 million in  government bonds  in 2010, the website reported.  Renovations  Dotcom spent NZ$4 million renovating his home after moving
in, the  New Zealand Herald’ s website reported, citing people it
didn’t identify. A graffiti-style painting of Dotcom and his
wife was displayed on the wall of one room, which had about
seven 60-inch television screens, the website reported.  The U.S. indictment named assets that would be seized from
the arrested men, including Mercedes-Benz cars with license
plates saying ‘God’, ‘Stoned’ and ‘Guilty’. It also identified
108-inch LCD televisions and 60 computer servers.  Mega Conspiracy  Investigators executed more than 20 search warrants in the
U.S. and eight other countries and seized about $50 million in
assets, the U.S. Justice Department said in a Jan. 19 statement.
Since September 2005, the conspiracy -- dubbed “Mega
Conspiracy” by prosecutors -- generated more than $175 million
in criminal proceeds by distributing millions of copies of
copyrighted works, including movies, television programs, music,
books, video games and software, according to the indictment.  The criminal charges follow a civil lawsuit filed by
Megaupload against  Universal Music  Group Inc. in U.S. District
Court in  San Jose ,  California , on Dec. 12 in which the website
claimed Universal Music improperly won the removal of a
Megaupload promotional video from Google Inc.’s YouTube and
other web sites.  Megaupload “privately produced, obtained all
authorizations and releases from performing artists involved”
and Universal Music abused the U.S. Digital Millenium Copyright
Act by demanding the video’s removal, Megaupload said in its
complaint.  The Megaupload video features endorsements from celebrities
including  Kanye West , Mary Jane Blige, Floyd Mayweather and
Jamie Foxx, according to the complaint.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Bourke in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  