-- Egypt’s Dollar Bonds Rise, CDS Retreat as Post-Mubarak Parliament Convenes
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2012-01-23T13:28:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/egypt-s-dollar-bonds-rise-cds-retreat-as-post-mubarak-parliament-convenes.html
Egypt ’s dollar bonds rose, sending
yields to almost six-week lows, and the nation’s default risk
fell as the first elected parliament since the ouster of
President  Hosni Mubarak  convened for the first time today.  The yield on North African country’s 5.75 percent notes due
April 2020 declined two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point,
to 7.73 percent at 3:21 p.m. in Cairo, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg. On Egypt’s 6.875 percent bonds due April
2040, the yield retreated seven basis points to 8.40 percent.
That takes both rates to the lowest on a closing basis since
Dec. 13. The cost of insuring the nation’s debt against default
for five years also dropped to a six-week low.  Islamists led by the Muslim Brotherhood’s Freedom & Justice
party, who secured about two-thirds of parliamentary seats in
elections that ended last week, took their oaths at the
assembly’s inaugural session. The Brotherhood had no
representation in the previous parliament, which was controlled
by Mubarak’s now-dissolved  National Democratic Party .  “With parliament convening, they have to make progress on
the economy and some investors are taking comfort in that,”
Angus Blair, chairman of Cairo-based think tank Signet
Institute, said by phone today. “Decisions will probably have
to be made in the next month by parliament on the IMF. They have
to step up to boost confidence to make some tough decisions.”  Reserves Tumble  Egypt submitted a formal request to the  International
Monetary Fund  on Jan. 16 for a $3.2 billion loan it seeks to
help implement an 18-month economic reform program. The ruling
military council, which took interim power from Mubarak after he
was deposed last February, had turned down a deal for a similar
debt package from the Washington-basd fund last June.  Since then,  foreign reserves  have dropped 32 percent and
yields on all treasury-bill maturities rose to records because
of rising pressure on funding at local banks and continued
political instability.  Five-year credit default swaps for the Arab country
declined eight basis points to 577 today, the lowest since Dec.
12, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group
Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  