-- Egypt’s Wounded Revolutionaries Regroup to Defy Army a Year After Uprising
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2012-01-23T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/egypt-s-wounded-revolutionaries-regroup-to-defy-army-a-year-after-uprising.html
Residents of Heliopolis emerge onto
their balconies, drawn by drumbeats and rhythmic clapping from a
group of mostly young Egyptians marching to the chant: “The
revolutionaries are coming back on Jan. 25.”  At street level, Mohamed Wasfy, a 24-year-old engineer, is
among the activists, who are urging people in the upscale Cairo
suburb to attend rallies against military rule planned for
tomorrow’s anniversary of the uprising against  Hosni Mubarak .
Wasfy is hobbling, leaning on a walking stick, and says he was
shot in the leg during clashes between troops and protesters
last month. “This is the only achievement of the last year of
revolution,” he says. “We get fired at, and are not afraid to
continue to protest. We’re ready to get shot again and again.”  The verdict reflects the frustrations and setbacks for
Egypt’s youthful activists since their leaderless uprising ended
Mubarak’s three-decade reign within 18 days. Since then, the
transition to democracy in the Arab world’s most populous
country, a key U.S. ally, has been punctuated by violence that
has delayed economic recovery, as tourists and investors stayed
away and currency reserves plunged.  Egypt’s secular activists suffered defeat at the ballot box,
where the parties they backed trailed Islamist groups who took
almost three-quarters of the seats in the parliament that held
its first meeting yesterday. Protesters also came under fire in
and around  Tahrir Square , where dozens have been killed, mostly
in the past three months. They accuse the generals who took over
from Mubarak of using similar tactics to stifle dissent, and
seeking to cling to power behind a drawn-out and vague timeline
for the return to civilian rule.  Army’s ‘Upper Hand’  “Many in the military establishment and the security
services want to maintain as much as possible of the status quo
that people have rebelled against,” said Omar Ashour, a
lecturer in Arab politics at the  University of Exeter  in the U.K.
“In any democratic transition, the final outcome is when you
have the elected civilians in control,” he said. “What we see
in  Egypt  is not exactly that. We still have the Supreme Council
of the Armed Forces having the upper hand.”  Army leaders deny using excessive force against
demonstrators and have blamed a “third party” or “foreign
hand” for fomenting unrest. The military has close ties with
the U.S. and has received the bulk of tens of billions of
dollars in U.S. aid to Egypt since 1979.  Egypt’s failure to negotiate a smooth transition has driven
financial markets down, in contrast with Tunisia, the other
north African country to revolt against a longtime leader a year
ago. Egypt’s benchmark stock index fell 40 percent in the past
year. More than half the loss occurred since June, when
 Tunisia ’s key measure started recovering after the plunge that
accompanied the ouster of Zine El Abidine Ben Ali.  Currency Run  Yields on Egypt’s domestic bonds have jumped to record
levels close to 16 percent. Yields on the benchmark dollar bond
maturing in 2020 rose to a record 8.79 percent this month,
before easing as the government announced plans to borrow $3.2
billion from the  International Monetary Fund . The central bank
spent half its  foreign exchange reserves  last year and raised
 interest rates  in November for the first time in more than three
years, as it seeks to avert a run on the pound.  “The process in Egypt was a fairly long one and the
economic situation deteriorated a lot,” said  Lutz Roehmeyer ,
who helps oversee about 11.5 billion euros ($15 billion) at
Landesbank Berlin Investment, and said he initially took a
“constructive view” of revolutions in North Africa. Roehmeyer
said Landesbank sold Egyptian stocks worth more than 5 million
euros in October. “We don’t expect huge reform, and that’s
quite negative for the development of the country after the
revolution,” he said.  ‘Revolution Must Continue’  The  economy  grew 1.8 percent in the 12 months through June,
the slowest in at least a decade. Hassan Omar, 60, who runs a
juice store in central Cairo, says the persistence of activists
is hurting business. “Every time there’s a protest, we’re
forced to close the store,” said Omar, who supported the revolt
against Mubarak and says he’s had to lay off two of his four
employees. “People have been patient for 30 years, why can’t
they wait for a few months?”  Passing near the store, which has “Down With Military
Rule” scrawled on a wall next to it, 28-year-old doctor Asmaa
Ismail says the generals can’t be trusted to make good on their
promises to hand over power. “We thought they would realize our
demands but nothing has happened,” she said. “Mubarak’s regime
is still there. The revolution must continue.”  Films, Graffiti, Fliers  Wasfy and his fellow activists say they are drawing
attention to abuses of power by the generals. They tour the
Egyptian capital erecting projector screens to show film of what
they say are violations by the military in the last year, and
also paint revolutionary graffiti on walls and shove fliers into
car windows calling for a handover to civilians. Protesters are
divided on who should take over, with some arguing that
parliament should inherit the army council’s powers until a
president is elected.  The activists’ achievements since Mubarak’s overthrow
include the ex-president’s trial, brought forward by the
generals after protesters demanded it. Egyptians have watched
the man who ruled them for three decades wheeled into a dock to
stand trial for allegedly conspiring to kill some of the
demonstrators who drove him out.  Prosecutors wrapped up their case earlier this month by
demanding the death penalty. Many of Mubarak’s ministers,
accused of helping promote crony capitalism, have been sentenced
to prison or face trial for corruption.  Islamist Parliament  The army council’s pledge to hold presidential elections by
June and then step down also should be chalked up as a win for
demonstrators exerting pressure, Ashour said.  In the parliament vote that ended last week, the alliance
headed by the Muslim Brotherhood’s Freedom and Justice Party won
47 percent of seats. Its secretary-general, Mohammad Saad Al- Katatni, was chosen as parliament speaker at the opening session
yesterday. A bloc led by Salafis, followers of an austere brand
of Islam, came second with about 25 percent.  Parliament is due to choose a committee to write Egypt’s
new constitution, a subject of much wrangling. In negotiations
between the army council and parliamentary parties over the
document, Ashour said key issues may include demands for
immunity from prosecution for the generals, shielding the army’s
budget from civilian scrutiny, “the independence of their
economic empire, and a veto in high politics and national
security issues.”  ‘Army of the People’  The Brotherhood has shown more willingness than the
protesters to compromise on military demands, and hasn’t joined
calls for an immediate handover to civilian rule.  “God didn’t create the world in one day, he created it in
six, we should be patient,” said Mahmoud Ghozlan, a spokesman
for the group. “The army is the army of the people. Some of its
activities must be surrounded with secrecy and we respect
that.”  The gaps between the activists, the Brotherhood and the
generals are highlighted by their preparations to mark Jan. 25.
Events planned by the army, which last week ordered the release
of almost 2,000 prisoners convicted in military courts since the
uprising, include a soccer match, a concert and a jobs fair.  The Brotherhood sees the occasion as a day for
“celebrations, not protests,” though that will include calls
for “the rest of the revolution’s demands to be realized as
soon as possible,” Ghozlan said.  The activists marching through Heliopolis plan to
demonstrate against the army council’s rule, and they urge
bystanders on the balconies to join them. “Why are you
silent?” they shout up. “Have you won your rights already?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor on this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  