-- RIM CEO Has Rocky Start as Steady Approach Disappoints Some
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-01-23T21:40:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/heins-brings-decades-of-hardware-skills-to-rim-s-battle-with-apple-google.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RI1) ’s Thorsten Heins got off to a rocky start to his tenure as the BlackBerry
maker’s chief executive officer.  Investors clamoring for a strategic shakeup were instead
told by Heins on a conference call this morning that no
“drastic change” is needed. The comments sent the stock
sliding, more than erasing a gain of as much as 7.6 percent in
early trading.  RIM, which helped pioneer the U.S. smartphone market more
than a decade ago, is betting on the management overhaul to stem
falling sales and market-share gains by  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android
and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and iPad. Heins, a 54-year-old German
native who spent more than 20 years at engineering giant  Siemens
AG (SIE) , said that he promotes “creativity, innovation and free
thinking” and that he is ready to go head-to-head with the
Silicon Valley rivals.  “We need to fight back and get stronger,” Heins said in
an interview. “You will see and hear much more from us.”  Heins, who is replacing co-Chief Executive Officers  Jim Balsillie  and  Mike Lazaridis , joined RIM four years ago after
more than two decades at Siemens in roles ranging from research
and development to product management. He was one of RIM’s two
operating chiefs, overseeing engineering, hardware and software.  RIM  slumped  8.5 percent to $15.56 at the close in New York
after rising as high as $18.29 in early trading. The stock has
lost 89 percent since its peak in 2008, when soaring BlackBerry
sales pushed  RIM (RIMM) ’s market capitalization to more than $80
billion, making it the most valuable company in  Canada . Its
 sales  have now declined for two straight quarters, and its
market value stands at $8.2 billion.  Predecessors’ Influence  “I’m a German and this is what I like to talk about: the
process discipline,” Heins told investors on the conference
call.  In the interview, Heins said he plans to continue on the
strategic path laid out by his predecessors. Lazaridis will be
vice chairman and lead the board’s innovation committee,
providing counsel to the CEO.  “It’s hard to see how this change can impact the company’s
course,” Ittai Kidron, an analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. in  New
York , told investors in a note today. “RIM’s previous
leadership is still involved so their influence is there and
important. We believe this could make it difficult for Mr. Heins
to make changes without their approval.”  ‘Make or Break’  Balsillie and Lazaridis, who guided RIM together for two
decades, said the decision to step down and appoint Heins was
theirs. Lazaridis, who founded the Waterloo, Ontario-based
company in 1984, said the shift is a result of the company’s
evolution and the introduction of new technologies that will
give RIM more competitive products.  “He’s really excelled in every department he’s been
responsible for,” Lazaridis said. “He became the natural
choice.”  Heins’s top challenge will be to lead RIM’s transition to
next-generation products running on a new operating system,
which has suffered from delays. In December, RIM said the first
BlackBerrys based on the new system, called BB10, won’t be
available until the latter part of this year.  “Getting this new operating system out has to be the
key,”  Jennifer Fritzsche , an analyst at  Wells Fargo & Co . in
 Chicago , said in an interview. The new software “will make or
break this company.”  Product Delays  Heins said the company’s focus on its own software will
yield results in the long term. About 18 months ago, the company
considered and decided against adopting another operating
system, he said.  “Jim and Mike’s strategy of not sacrificing long-term
value for short-term gain is the right one,” Heins said. “I
share that value.”  RIM may consider licensing out its new operating system if
other manufacturers are interested in it, Heins said. He also
cited RIM’s 75 million  subscribers , “strong balance sheet” and
negligible debt as advantages.  The company had a nine-month delay in getting e-mail onto
its PlayBook tablet computer, RIM’s response to Apple’s market-
leading iPad. The technical difficulties and marketing missteps
have left PlayBook shipments at a little more than 1 percent of
those for the iPad.  Heins said he plans to emphasize discipline in RIM’s
execution to make sure they company sticks to schedule.  “When you say we’re bringing a product to market, you make
sure you execute,” he said.  No Retreat  At Siemens, Heins rose through the ranks of research and
development,  customer service , sales and  product management . He
ran several units of Siemens’s communication business and also
worked as the division’s chief technology officer.  “Heins is a product execution guy, he’s not a visionary,”
 Ehud Gelblum , a New York-based analyst at Morgan Stanley, said
in an interview. “Heins has to give people a reason why they
need a BlackBerry. It’s going to be very difficult for him.”  Originally from Munich, Heins joined  Siemens (SIE)  in 1984 after
graduating from the University of Hanover. He is married and has
two children, and his hobbies include bicycling, motorcycling,
skiing and hiking.  Heins said his role will be in taking RIM “to the next
phase.” Among his first moves, he said, will be hiring a new
marketing chief to communicate with the consumer market.  With the transition to the new operating system, Heins says
RIM will be able to compete more effectively for the customers
it has lost. RIM, which dominated the U.S. smartphone market
before Apple and Google entered it, had its share of sales drop
to 16.6 percent in the three months ending in November,
according to  ComScore Inc. (SCOR)  Google’s Android raised its share to
46.9 percent and Apple increased to 28.7 percent.  “We will be working the consumer market not at the expense
of the enterprise,” Heins said. “I’m not here to retreat from
the U.S. market. I’m here to take it up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  