-- ETF-Based Strategies Grew 43% in Last Year
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2012-01-23T20:05:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/etf-based-strategies-grew-43-in-last-year.html
Money overseen by U.S. investment
managers who buy exchange-traded funds instead of individual
stocks and bonds rose by 43 percent in the last year, even
faster than the growth for ETFs, according to a report from
Morningstar Inc.  The 370 ETF-based investment strategies tracked by
Morningstar grew to $27 billion in the year ended Sept. 30, the
Chicago-based research firm said today. That outpaced the 7.5
percent increase for ETFs and 0.8 percent decline for mutual
funds, the company said.  The products, typically unregistered pools of money sold
like funds by small-sized asset managers or investment advisers,
reflect a growing preference among investors to pay for managers
to allocate holdings across asset classes and investment styles,
while avoiding active mutual funds and their fees.  “Investment advisers especially are moving to fee-based
asset-allocation strategies,” Andrew Gogerty, a Morningstar
analyst, said in an interview. Gogerty estimated total assets
for the category at as much as $100 billion.  Gogerty said products least constrained by where and what
kinds of assets they can purchase grew fastest.  The report is the first based on a database constructed in
the past two years by Morningstar, which has rated mutual funds
for more than 20 years. It tracks only strategies with at least
50 percent of assets invested in ETFs and relies on data
provided voluntarily by the managers on a quarterly basis.  The largest provider tracked by Morningstar was Boston-
based Windhaven, a unit of  San Francisco ’s  Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW) ,
which grew 70 percent to $7.08 billion.  Most firms oversee less than $1 billion. They typically
pool money into their strategies from separately managed
accounts held by high-end clients or financial advisers, who may
combine money from smaller clients.  ETFs, which trade throughout the day on an exchange like
stocks, typically hold a basket of equities or bonds designed to
track the returns of an index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  