-- New York Mets Ruling Draws 34 Similar Suits by Trustee of Bernard Madoff
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-01-26T18:38:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/mets-owners-to-ask-judge-to-decide-madoff-trustee-s-386-million-claims.html
A federal judge’s ruling in a
$1 billion lawsuit against the  New York  Mets owners has drawn 34
suits to the judge’s door that claim to be similar to the case
brought by the liquidator of Bernard L. Madoff’s firm against
 Fred Wilpon  and Saul Katz.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in  Manhattan  threw out most
of trustee Irving Picard’s claims against the team owners and
refused to let Picard appeal his ruling before a March jury
trial on $386 million in remaining claims.  Rakoff has accepted as related some of the 34 cases against
other defendants, while others await decisions, according to
court records. Two new suits were added to the list yesterday.  Defendants in Picard’s bankruptcy court suits, including
JPMorgan Chase & Co., have asked district judges to decide
whether Picard, a New York lawyer, has the right to sue them,
and for how much. They say that Picard is straining the limits
of the law as he tries to grab back money for victims of
Madoff’s fraud -- and some of them have won initial victories.  The Madoff trustee calculated in October that people and
companies he sued in about 247 actions had sought an “escape
hatch” from  bankruptcy court , intended by Congress to handle
such cases, he said. Judge shopping was “perverting” the law,
Picard said in the October filing. He is appealing District
Court rulings in the JPMorgan and other bank cases that knocked
out more than $28 billion of his claims.  Bid for Judgment  The Mets owners have said they will ask Rakoff next month
for judgment on all remaining counts of Picard’s complaint.
Picard said separately he wants a ruling before trial on one
remaining count.  Picard originally demanded $300 million in profit and
$700 million in principal from Wilpon, Katz and a group of
family members and related entities, saying they turned a blind
eye to Madoff’s Ponzi scheme. The partners denied the
allegation. In September, Rakoff dismissed all or part of nine
out of 11 claims in Picard’s suit against Wilpon and Katz.  Denying Picard’s request to let him appeal this month,
Rakoff, a fan of the  New York Yankees , cited a quotation usually
attributed to that team’s Hall of Fame catcher,  Yogi Berra .  “Whether on the ball field or in court, ‘It ain’t over
till it’s over’ is both shrewd observation and sound advice,”
the judge said.  The case is Picard v. Katz, 11-cv-03605, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  