-- EU Hits Iran With Oil Ban, Asset Freeze Over Nuclear Effort
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2012-01-24T05:23:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/eu-hits-iran-with-oil-ban-bank-asset-freeze-in-bid-to-halt-nuclear-plan.html
European Union foreign ministers
agreed to ban oil imports from  Iran  starting July 1 as part of
efforts to ratchet up pressure on the Persian Gulf nation’s
nuclear program, the 27-nation bloc said in a  statement .  The EU will freeze assets in  Europe  of the Iranian central
bank as well as of eight other entities and ban trade in gold,
precious metals, diamonds and petrochemical products from Iran.
The Iranian Foreign Ministry in a statement called the decision
“aggressive” and said it will have “negative consequences”
in Europe, including higher oil prices.  Among the entities are Bank Tejarat, the last major Iranian
bank financing large-volume trade in Europe. Also sanctioned is
port company Tidewater, owned by the Islamic Revolutionary Guard
Corps, which operates about 90 percent of Iran’s container
ports, according to U.K Embassy spokesman James Barbour in
Washington.  “These EU sanctions will hurt Iran very deeply,” Shada Islam,  Middle East  and Asia analyst at the Friends of Europe
policy group in Brussels, said in an interview. “To be really
effective, however, the EU and the U.S. must also try and get
key Asian countries, including  China , on board.”  An Iranian foreign ministry official said the pressure
won’t force Iran to change its actions. Sanctions have “proved
ineffective in the past and will prove futile in the future,”
said Abbas Aragchi, a deputy foreign minister, according to the
official state-run  Islamic Republic News Agency .  The EU said yesterday in Brussels that its actions “target
the sources of the finance for the nuclear program,
complementing already existing sanctions.”  Asset Freeze  The asset freeze also applies to Sad Export Import Co., a
front company involved in arms transfers to  Syria , the EU said
today in its Official Journal. Other entities subject to
restrictions include Darya Delalan Sefid Khazar Shipping Co.,
which is owned or controlled by Islamic Republic of Iran
Shipping Lines, and Behnam Sahriyari Trading Co., which sent
containers of firearms to Syria in May 2007.  Japanese Foreign Minister Koichiro Gemba today called the
EU ban “quite drastic” and differs from  Japan ’s plan to
gradually cut purchases of Iranian crude.  New contracts on oil imports from Iran and extensions of
existing deals will be banned, the EU said. Shipments under
agreements already in place can continue until July 1. The EU
measures against Iran also include a ban on the export of
equipment and technology for the Iranian petrochemical industry.  Oil Prices   Crude for March delivery was little changed at $99.66 a
barrel at 1:37 p.m. Tokyo time, in electronic trading on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange . The contract earlier increased as much
as 0.4 percent to $99.98.  The Iranian Navy didn’t harass the USS Abraham Lincoln, an
aircraft carrier, as it went through the Strait of Hormuz into
the Persian Gulf on Jan. 22, Pentagon spokesman Navy Captain
John Kirby told reporters yesterday. The Lincoln replaced the
USS John Stennis, which left the area on Dec. 27.  “HMS Argyll and a French vessel joined a U.S. carrier
group transiting through the Strait of Hormuz, to underline the
unwavering international commitment to maintaining rights of
passage under international law,” the U.K. Ministry of Defense
said in an e-mailed statement from  London .  The acting commander of the Islamic Revolutionary Guards
Corps, Brigadier-General Hossein Salami, said Jan. 21 the U.S.
Navy has deployed warships in the region “for a long time” and
the current situation “is not new,” according to IRNA.  Less Confrontational  His remarks were less confrontational than those of
Mohammad Kowsari, deputy head of the Parliament’s National
Security and Foreign Policy commission, who was cited by the
state-run Fars news agency as saying Iran will “certainly close
the Strait of Hormuz”  if sanctions “interrupt” its oil
exports. About 20 percent of globally traded oil transits the
 Persian Gulf  passageway.  “We can keep the Strait of Hormuz open and we will do what
is necessary to achieve that,” Ivo Daalder, the U.S. ambassador
to NATO, said in a BBC Radio 4 interview yesterday.  The U.S. and EU say Iran’s nuclear-development plans are
aimed at gaining atomic weapons capability. The Islamic
republic, the second-largest oil producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries after  Saudi Arabia , is already
under four rounds of UN sanctions and says its nuclear program
is for civilian energy and medical purposes.  The International Atomic Energy Agency said yesterday it
will send inspectors to Iran Jan. 29 to Jan. 31 in an effort to
resolve questions raised by its nuclear activities.  ‘Failed’  “The Iranian leadership has failed to restore
international confidence in the exclusively peaceful nature of
its nuclear program,” said U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron,
French President Nicolas Sarkozy and German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  in a joint statement. “We will not accept Iran acquiring
a nuclear weapon.”  In  Washington , President  Barack Obama  welcomed the EU move
as demonstrating “once more the unity of the international
community in addressing the serious threat presented by Iran’s
nuclear program.”  The U.S. “will continue to increase the pressure unless
Iran acts to change course and comply with its international
obligations,” he said in a written statement.  While the EU decision yesterday will be binding on  member
states , a separate regulation is needed for it to become binding
on companies. The European Commission, the EU’s regulatory arm,
is expected to offer a draft rule on that matter within days,
according to an EU diplomat.  Mediterranean Stance  Mediterranean countries that import much of their crude
from Iran, such as Greece, Spain and  Italy , had argued for
sanctions to be phased in over as much as a year. Both Spain and
Italy get 13 percent of their crude imports from Iran, according
to the U.S.’s  Energy Information Administration .  The U.K. and  Germany , which have also sought swifter
sanctions, get only 1 percent of their oil imports from the
Islamic republic, while  France  gets 4 percent.  Spanish Foreign Minister Jose Manuel Garcia-Margallo told
reporters in Brussels yesterday that Saudi Arabian officials
told him they will make up for supply shortfalls.  In addition to the four sets of UN sanctions, Iran is under
other U.S. and EU restrictions.  Oil sales earned Iran $73 billion in 2010 and supplied more
than 50 percent of the national budget and 80 percent of
exports, according to the U.S.  Energy Department  and the
 International Monetary Fund . Iran produced 3.58 million barrels
of crude a day in December, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s about 4 percent of global oil consumption.  The EU imported 14.5 billion euros ($18.9 billion) of goods
from Iran, 90 percent of which was oil and related products, in
2010 and exported goods to the country worth 11.3 billion euros,
the EU said in a Jan. 20  statement .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  