-- European Stocks Advance as EU Ministers Meet on Crisis; Outokumpu Jumps
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-01-23T16:57:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/european-stock-futures-fluctuate-as-greek-debt-talks-enter-a-second-week.html
European stocks  climbed to a five-
month high, led by a rally in banks, as Greece bargained with
bondholders over debt relief and Germany floated the idea of
combining  Europe ’s two rescue funds.  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  both jumped at least 10
percent after a report that a broad agreement on Greece’s debt
has been reached.  Outokumpu Oyj (OUT1V)  surged 18 percent as Finland’s
biggest stainless-steel maker held discussions that may lead to
a merger with a unit of ThyssenKrupp AG.  Cable & Wireless
Worldwide Plc (CW/)  rallied 34 percent.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  added 0.5 percent to 257.01 at
the close of trading as the region’s finance ministers began
meeting in Brussels to discuss the debt crisis. The gauge has
risen 5.1 percent in 2012, the best start to a year since 1997,
as reports added to optimism that the global economy is
strengthening.  “We are still very much in the hands of politicians and
regulators and the statements that come out from them,” Nigel Bolton, head of European equities at BlackRock International
Ltd., said in an interview with Bloomberg Television. “We are
coming up to another summit. As long as we see the continuation
of the progress that we started to see at the end of November,
then I think the market can continue higher.”  National benchmark indexes rose in 15 of the 18 western
European markets today. France’s CAC 40 and Germany’s DAX each
gained 0.5 percent, while the U.K.’s FTSE 100 increased 0.9
percent. Greece’s  ASE (ASE)  jumped 5.1 percent, the biggest advance in
three months.  EU Meeting  European Union finance chiefs started discussing the
region’s rescue funds, Greece’s latest offer to bondholders, a
German-inspired deficit-control treaty and nominees to the
 European Central Bank ’s board today.  France’s Finance Minister  Francois Baroin  said at a press
conference in Paris that negotiations on Greek debt are making
“tangible progress.” German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said he’s confident the discussions will be completed.  Bondholders negotiating the debt swap said they made their
“maximum” offer, leaving it to the EU and International
Monetary Fund to decide whether to accept the deal, said  Charles Dallara , who’s representing private creditors in the talks.
Dallara, managing director of Institute of International
Finance, said he’s hopeful the EU an IMF will agree to terms for
private investor involvement in a rescue of  Greece  to avert a
default and collapse of the economy.  Greek Talks  Financial Times Deutschland reported that negotiators for
Greece and the IIF have broadly agreed on the terms of a debt
swap, citing unidentified government officials. The parties are
still trying to agree on coupons, the newspaper said.  Stocks extended gains as Christian Democratic Union
lawmaker Norbert Barthle said the German government is
discussing proposals to run the temporary and permanent European
rescue funds in parallel if needed. Such a step would boost
Europe’s unspent crisis-fighting capacity to around 750 billion
euros.  European equity  valuations  have fallen to the lowest levels
since 2004 compared with the U.S., as economic forecasts between
the two regions diverge by the most since 1998. The Stoxx 600
trades at 1.43 times book value, or assets minus liabilities,
after falling 11 percent last year. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index trades at 2.14, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  UniCredit, Italy’s biggest bank, rallied 10 percent to 3.66
euros while  Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA (BMPS) , the nation’s
third-biggest, surged 14 percent to 26.23 euro cents and Intesa
Sanpaolo SpA climbed 5.4 percent to 1.46 euros.  Bank Confidence  UBS AG wrote in report dated yesterday that Italian banks
were more positive than expected and “far more confident than a
year ago” after a conference held in Milan last week.  Elsewhere,  Commerzbank (CBK)  gained 13 percent to 1.95 euros in
Frankfurt trading.  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA climbed 8.6 percent to
22.80 euros in Paris, a tenth day of gains for the longest
winning streak since March 2009.  Outokumpu jumped 18 percent to 7.97 euros as ThyssenKrupp
said it’s in talks to merge its Inoxum stainless steel unit with
the Finnish company. All options for the unit are still open,
including an initial public offering, spinoff or a sale to an
investor, ThyssenKrupp said.  ThyssenKrupp (TKA) , Germany’s largest steelmaker, rallied 2.6
percent to 21.26 euros.  Cable & Wireless Worldwide, which provides
telecommunications services to the U.K. police force, surged 34
percent to 23.9 pence. That’s the biggest gain since the shares
started trading in March 2010.  Utilities Drop  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA led utilities lower, falling 3.6 percent to
20.36 euros, as Barclays Plc wrote in a report that renegotiated
contracts with Russia’s OAO Gazprom may be unprofitable in 2013.  RWE AG (RWE)  declined 2.4 percent to 26.29 euros and EON AG slid
2.2 percent to 15.88 euros as Barclays reiterated its
“underweight” recommendation on the shares in a separate
report, citing growing earnings risks for the German utilities.  Thomas Cook Group Plc (TCG)  dropped 5 percent to 14.25 pence
after the Financial Times reported the company’s bookings in the
first half of January fell 33 percent compared with the same
period last year. The newspaper cited people with access to a
leisure-industry gauge of bookings.  Afren Plc (AFR)  dropped 5.4 percent to 117.9 pence after the U.K.
energy explorer focused on Africa and  Middle East  lowered its
output guidance for this year and after delays to its project in
 Iraqi Kurdistan .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  