-- Europe Stocks Cheapest to U.S. Since ’04 as Growth Decouples
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2012-01-23T14:40:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/europe-stocks-cheapest-to-u-s-since-04-as-net-rises-amid-recession-worry.html
European equity valuations have
fallen to the lowest levels since 2004 compared with the U.S.,
as economic forecasts between the two regions diverge by the
most since 1998.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  trades at 1.43 times book value,
or assets minus liabilities, after falling 11 percent last year.
That compares with 2.14 for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The European gauge has
been at least 30 percent cheaper for 69 straight days, the
longest stretch in seven years. Economists forecast U.S. gross
domestic product will expand 2.3 percent in 2012, compared with
a 0.2 percent contraction in  Europe .  Bulls say the gap provides the opportunity to buy  bargains 
because profits among companies in the Stoxx 600 will rise an
average of 9.8 percent in the next two years, bolstered by the
growing American economy. U.S. GDP grew twice as fast as the
euro zone in 2003 when equities began a five-year  bull market .
Bears say budget deficits will keep both regions from rebounding
and that a recession in Europe will lead to losses everywhere.  “Even though the euro zone may be the largest economic
bloc, the U.S. is the single largest country as an economy, so
if we’re doing better there’s going to be an effect that’s going
to benefit other areas of the world,” Mike Ryan, New York-based
chief investment strategist at UBS Wealth Management Americas,
which oversees $715 billion, said in a Jan. 19 phone interview.
“It certainly does no harm and likely does good.”  American Premium  Investors are paying a premium for European companies that
do the most business overseas, Bloomberg data show.  ASML Holding
NV (ASML) , the region’s biggest manufacturer of chip equipment, has
risen 48 percent since August and trades at 4.1 times book
value. The company got 15 percent of 2010 sales from America.
Daimler AG, the world’s largest maker of heavy-duty trucks, has
risen 44 percent since November after saying U.S. demand is
growing.  European companies will get 46 percent of  2011 revenue 
outside the region and the proportion for the largest companies
is 57 percent, according to Morgan Stanley analysts. Businesses
get about 14 percent of sales from the U.S., the estimates show.  The euro has weakened about 4 percent in the past three
months, the worst performance among 10 currencies tracked by the
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. A 10 percent gain in the
dollar would spur a 1.8 percent advance in European earnings in
2012 and a 1.7 percent increase in stocks’ “fair value,”
Morgan Stanley said in an Oct. 3 note to clients.  Confidence Jumps  Stocks  advanced  globally last week as first-time claims for
U.S. jobless benefits slipped to an almost four-year low and
German investor confidence jumped the most on record. The Stoxx
600 climbed 2.7 percent to 255.85 for its best annual  start 
since 1997 and the S&P 500 gained 2 percent to 1,315.38, posting
its biggest rally to start a year since 1997.  The Stoxx 600 rose 0.3 percent at 9:37 a.m. in  New York 
today, while the S&P 500 gained 0.2 percent.  Fund managers are more bullish on American stocks than at
any time since April 2010, according to a Bank of America Corp.
survey released Jan. 17. The U.S. supplanted  emerging markets  as
the most favored region for equities, while Europe was the least
popular, falling to almost the lowest level on record, the
survey found.  ‘Noticeably Desynchronized’  “Unlike in the financial crisis of 2008, the global
economies of today are noticeably desynchronized,” said  Frances Hudson , who helps manage $241 billion at Standard Life
Investments in Edinburgh. “The U.S. plus  China  and emerging
markets should outweigh Europe. On that ground, to sell European
companies down hard seems to be a little counterintuitive.”  Average economic growth in  Brazil ,  Russia ,  India  and China
will top 6 percent next year, the World Bank estimated Jan. 17.
Global GDP may increase 2.5 percent this year, down from an
estimate of 3.6 percent in June and restrained by a 0.3 percent
contraction in the euro area, the Washington-based agency said.  Equity valuations as measured against book value, or how
much a company is worth in liquidation, fell below their decade
averages in 2008 as the  credit crisis  began. They’ve yet to
recover in the U.S. or Europe after concern Greece would default
sent stocks in at least 35 countries into bear markets, or
declines of more than 20 percent, in 2011.  The Stoxx 600 trades 25 percent below its 10-year average
price-to-book value multiple even after a  62 percent rally  since
March 2009 lifted the multiple from 1.1. The  S&P 500 ’s price-to-
book multiple expanded by almost 50 percent since November 2008
as the index rallied 75 percent.  Growth Forecasts Gain  Forecasts for growth in the $15.2 trillion  U.S. economy 
this year have risen since October. From a low of 2 percent, the
median estimate in a survey of 72 economists has climbed to 2.3
percent, including a 0.2-point increase on Jan. 12 that
represented the biggest one-day gain since the projections
began.  In the 17-member euro area, the average forecast has
declined from 1.8 percent in December 2010 to minus 0.2 percent
now. The 27-nation European Union has a  combined gross domestic
product  of $15.8 trillion.  “This is showing that the U.S. can decouple, which is good
for us and it’s good for them,” Paul Zemsky, the New York-based
head of asset allocation for ING Investment Management, said in
a phone interview. His firm oversees $550 billion. “If the U.S.
was in a recession at the same time that Europe had to go
through this, that would be an even bigger disaster.”  Default Speculation  Borrowing costs from  Italy  to  Spain  surged last year as
investors speculated countries would default. Spending will
outpace collections by 8 percent this year in  Greece  and 10
percent in Ireland, according to the European Commission.
Projections for economic growth have shrunk after Spain, Italy
and the U.K. enacted spending cuts to reduce the deficits.  Euro-region borrowing was more than 70 percent of gross
domestic product last year, data from the EU’s statistics office
show. In the U.S., where spending is outpacing revenue by 9.6
percent, gross debt is 98 percent of GDP, according to data
compiled by the Treasury Department.  “Our core thesis is that throughout the West, more debt
has been accumulated over the past four decades than can ever be
paid back,” said  Tim Price , chief investment director at PFP
Group in  London . “There is preliminary evidence that the U.S.
economy is recovering. That is good to see but I fail to see how
strong U.S. consumption can drag us out of the mess we are in.”  Rescue Fund  European governments and the  International Monetary Fund 
are financing 256 billion euros ($331 billion) in Greek, Irish
and Portuguese bailouts and plan a second package for Greece of
130 billion euros. In addition, the euro area has pledged a 500
billion-euro permanent rescue fund in case further aid is needed
for distressed governments in the region.  ASML in Veldhoven,  Netherlands , said Jan. 18 that orders
from abroad will sustain growth and make up for any slowdown in
its home region amid the sovereign-debt crisis. The company gets
most of its revenue in Asia, and 15 percent out of the U.S.  Daimler (DAI) , based in Stuttgart,  Germany , said last month its
commercial-vehicle plants will remain at full production in the
first quarter as demand in North America pushed new orders to a
four-year high. The company, which counts the U.S. as its
largest market, trades at 1.17 times book value, compared with a
ratio of 0.98 for the broader  Stoxx 600 Automobiles & Parts
Index .  International Revenue  ASML and Daimler are among 143 companies in the Stoxx 600
that in their latest year reported less than 40 percent of total
revenue coming from western Europe, according to Bloomberg data.  “We are seeing strong growth in the U.S. and have several
European markets that raise a significant part of their revenue
overseas,” James Swanson, who helps oversee $200 billion as
chief investment strategist at MFS Investment Management, said
in a Jan. 11 interview in London. “That, at a time when the
euro has dropped, gives earnings a very important buffer.”  Kevin Rendino , a money manager at New York-based BlackRock
Inc., says signs Europe and the U.S. are decoupling is positive
for equities. While U.S. stocks and the euro rose or fell in
tandem in 2011 as concerns over Europe’s debt crisis eased or
grew, that correlation has broken down this year, he said.  The  S&P 500  was little changed last year as the European
currency declined 3.2 percent, and the so-called 30-day
correlation coefficient between them reached a record 0.91 in
November. Since Nov. 30, the euro has dropped 4 percent against
the greenback while the U.S. equities gauge has gained 4.9
percent. The ratio has slipped to 0.66, Bloomberg data show.  “I understand that Europe’s weak but that doesn’t mean the
rest of the globe has to be weak,” Rendino, who helps oversee
$3.3 trillion, said in an interview. “There’s been some
decoupling.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  