-- EU Diplomats Agree on Iran Oil Embargo
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2012-01-23T09:24:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/european-union-diplomats-said-to-agree-to-introduce-embargo-on-iranian-oil.html
European Union diplomats agreed to
place an embargo on the import of Iranian oil with a phase-in
period to July 1, an EU official said.  Foreign ministers of the 27-nation EU are expected to
formally approve the embargo plan later today at a meeting in
Brussels, the official said on condition of anonymity because
the talks are private.  Iran  has threatened to close the Strait of Hormuz, the
Persian Gulf passageway for about 20 percent of globally traded
oil, if the EU and the U.S. impose stricter sanctions. Saudi
Arabia, Iran,  Iraq , the  United Arab Emirates , Qatar and Kuwait
ship crude and liquefied natural gas through the strait.  “We can keep the Straits of Hormuz open and we will do
what is necessary to achieve that,” Ivo Daalder, the U.S.
ambassador to NATO, said in a BBC Radio 4 interview today.  EU foreign ministers must balance their wish to act fast to
pressure Iran to stop its nuclear program against the need to
give some member states time to find alternative oil sources. EU
foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton  said sanctions might also
target Iran’s central bank. German Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  said the steps are aimed at “drying up funding”
for Iran’s nuclear research.  ‘Impress Iran’  “ Europe  is now preparing to sanction those parts of the
Iranian economy where it will hurt: oil and finance,”  Jan Techau , director of the Brussels-based European Center of the
Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, said in an
interview. “Europeans are united on this and it is this unity
that seems to impress Iran.”  The U.S. and Europe have raised pressure on Iran this month
after the International Atomic Energy Agency, the United Nations
atomic watchdog, said Iran had started enriching uranium up to
20 percent at a fortified site. President  Barack Obama  signed a
bill on Dec. 31 that tightens sanctions on Iran by denying
access to the U.S. financial system to any foreign bank that
conducts business with the Central Bank of Iran.  Swedish Foreign Minister Carl Bildt said that sanctions
alone are “not the answer.” Bildt, speaking to reporters
before the meeting in Brussels today, said the EU needs to seek
“diplomatic engagement” with the Iranian leadership.  The U.S. and EU say Iran’s nuclear-development plans are
aimed at building atomic weapons. The Islamic republic, the
second-largest oil producer in the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries after  Saudi Arabia , is already under four
rounds of UN sanctions and says its nuclear program is for
energy and medical purposes, not weaponry.  An EU ban would apply to imports of Iranian oil, purchases
out of Iran by EU companies to non-EU countries, transport of
oil from Iran, as well as finance and insurance of oil
contracts, according to an EU diplomat who declined to be
identified, because the talks are confidential. The embargo
requires unanimity among the bloc’s 27 states.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Stephen Voss  at   sev@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 