-- Europe’s Debt Crisis Is Still Likely to End Badly: Simon Johnson
-- B y   S i m o n   J o h n s o n
-- 2012-01-23T00:05:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/europe-debt-crisis-still-likely-to-end-badly-commentary-by-simon-johnson.html
There are two main schools of
thought on what may happen next with  Europe ’s debt crisis. Some
well-informed people strongly believe that everything will work
out just fine, and without much of an economic slowdown. Other,
equally well-informed people believe just as strongly that the
euro area will break apart in a traumatic manner. When it comes
to predicting Europe’s future, not many people occupy the middle
ground.  The two poles now agree that the severity of the crisis
largely comes down to Italy and the  European Central Bank . The
optimists argue that  Mario Monti  will save the day. Not only
will Italy’s new prime minister push through some reasonable
austerity measures, the optimists insist, he will also persuade
Germany not to demand yet more budget cuts. The sympathy and
support of the German government matters a great deal, primarily
because of its influence with the ECB.  If we were still living under the “no bailout” conditions
of the gold standard, as it actually operated before 1914,  Italy 
would have no hope. The market has decided that Italy has too
much debt and too little growth. As these expectations become
more negative and interest rates rise, it becomes harder for
Italy to issue new debt and make the required payments on
existing obligations. Projected government debt levels become
explosive.  Today’s world, of course, has moved far from the gold
standard because central banks can provide credit and create
money. The central banks are limited only by their credibility,
or the level of confidence by the financial system that policy
makers will keep inflation in check.  Big Bazooka  The ECB has, in the jargon of the day, a big bazooka. It
can provide a great deal of cheap credit to Italy and other
troubled European sovereigns. If Italy doesn’t need to borrow
from private markets for the next few years, the reasoning goes,
an economic recovery can take hold. There may also be sensible
changes at the level of euro-area governance, including perhaps
a greater degree of fiscal union. And  Germany  could throw some
fiscal stimulus into the mix.  My colleagues at the Peterson Institute for International
Economics, Fred Bergsten and  Jacob Kirkegaard , have a new  paper :
“The Coming Resolution of the European Crisis,” which argues
that such outcomes constitute the most likely scenario.  They quote Jean Monnet, a driving force behind European
integration, who said “Europe will be forged in crises, and
will be the sum of the solutions adopted for those crises.”
Politicians, Bergsten and Kirkegaard believe, will rise to meet
the occasion.  I’m in the more skeptical camp. Peter Boone and I also have
a  new paper , “The European Crisis Deepens,” which reviews a
range of scenarios and concludes that the euro area is likely to
end badly. (You can watch a debate between these dueling
positions  here .)  If this were just an exchange system on the brink of
collapse, we wouldn’t care that much. History is full of fixed
exchange-rate arrangements that broke down. In fact, a cynic
might even point out that all attempts to fix exchange rates,
whether against gold, the dollar or other currencies, ultimately
fail.  Think about the gold standard in its various permutations:
the post-World War II Bretton Woods system, attempts by East
Asian countries to peg their exchange rates in the 1990s, or
even the ultimately disastrous Argentine currency peg from 1991
to 2002. They all illustrate that holding on to an exchange peg
for too long is a classic policy mistake. Usually when it ends,
there is a great deal of concern about the future, but such
worries are often overblown: A depreciation in the exchange rate
can help an economic recovery, as long as the lid can be kept on
inflation.  Good Times Over  But Europe’s problem isn’t just that some countries have
the wrong exchange rate, and no way to adjust it within the
existing system. The main issue is that governments borrowed
heavily during the good times, which are most definitely at an
end.  Italy has more than 1.9 trillion euros ($2.5 trillion) in
debt outstanding. Bringing this under control through austerity
alone is unlikely to work. In countries such as Greece and
Ireland, the economic contraction is further undermining fiscal
sustainability.  If the ECB buys a great deal of Italian debt or finances
banks that are willing to do the same, it might stabilize the
situation for a while. But how much can the ECB really do
without jeopardizing its credibility? How long will long-term
 interest rates  stay low, even if short-term inflation
accelerates? What will happen to inflation expectations if the
ECB continues to expand credit in this fashion?  Many people, including leading bankers and those with
access to the highest levels of government, want to prevent any
kind of Italian debt restructuring. But at some point in every
fixed exchange-rate regime, even the most powerful people have
to confront basic arithmetic. When budget deficits cannot be
financed, when enough capital is flowing out, and when the
central bank has gone beyond the limits of what is responsible,
it is always time to move the exchange rate.  When the country that devalues has borrowed heavily in a
foreign currency -- as the euro effectively is for Italy at this
point -- there is a sovereign debt crisis and usually a
restructuring of the government’s obligations. Avoiding some
version of this in the euro area will be hard.  ( Simon Johnson , who served as chief economist at the
 International Monetary Fund  in 2007 and 2008 and is now a
professor at the  MIT Sloan School of Management  as well as a
senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International
Economics, is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Simon Johnson at  sjohnson@mit.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Paula Dwyer  at  pdwyer11@bloomberg.net  