-- Euro Strengthens Versus Yen as Manufacturing, Services Expand; Pound Rises
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2012-01-24T12:28:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/euro-is-near-three-week-high-before-european-manufacturing-services-data.html
The euro reached the highest level
in almost four weeks versus the yen after a report showed
European services and manufacturing industries unexpectedly
expanded in January.  The yen fell against 12 of 16 major peers tracked by
Bloomberg after the  Bank of Japan  cut its economic growth
forecast for next year. The pound rose against most peers after
a report showed the  budget deficit  shrank more than predicted in
December. The euro retreated from a three-week high against the
dollar amid a stalemate between regional policy makers and Greek
bondholders over a proposed debt swap.  “Overall, the figures are better than expected and
remarkably robust, not just for manufacturing but services as
well,” said Michael Derks, chief strategist at FXPro Financial
Services Ltd. in London. The figures are “helping the euro,”
he said.  The euro strengthened 0.3 percent to 100.59 yen at 7:24
a.m. New York time after reaching 100.84, the most since Dec.
29. The common currency was little changed at $1.3016. It
earlier touched $1.3063, the highest level since Jan. 4. The
dollar climbed 0.3 percent to 77.28 yen.  A euro-area  composite index  based on a survey of purchasing
managers in both manufacturing and services industries rose to
50.4 from 48.3 in December, London-based Markit Economics said
today. Economists predicted 48.5 in a Bloomberg survey. A
reading above 50 indicates an expansion.  Financial markets in Asian countries including  China  and
 South Korea  were shut today for the Lunar New Year holiday.  Technical Level  The yen also declined after it weakened past its 100-day
moving average against the dollar at 77.19, said Jane Foley, a
senior currency strategist at Rabobank International in London.  “Traders were watching technical levels on the yen,” she
said. “The market is feeling a bit better in terms of risk
appetite so traders are able to unwind some of their long yen
positions.”  A long position is a bet that an asset will rise.  Price swings in group of seven currencies climbed to 10.37
percent today after falling to 10.06 percent yesterday, the
least since March 2011, according to the  JPMorgan G7 Volatility
Index (JPMVXYG7) . A lower reading makes investments in currencies with
higher lending rates more attractive as the risk in such trades
is that market moves will erase profits.  U.K.  net borrowing  excluding support for banks was 13.7
billion pounds in December compared with 15.9 billion pounds a
year earlier, the  Office for National Statistics  said today.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast 14.9 billion pounds.  Risk Reversals  German manufacturing  expanded in January for the first time
in four months, according to a separate release from Markit. The
nation’s factory gauge rose to 50.9 from 48.4 in December. The
services index jumped to a seven-month high of 54.5 from 52.4,
while a composite index climbed to 54.0 from 51.3.  The cost to protect against a drop in the euro against the
dollar is falling, suggesting traders see less scope for a
decline in the value of the European currency. Risk-reversal
rates for three-month options on the euro versus the dollar
shrank to negative 1.65 percent today from as low as negative
2.7 on Dec. 30.  The euro rose against most of its 16 major peers even as
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said talks aimed
at relieving  Greece ’s debt burden were “off track.” Juncker
called on creditors to drop demands that new Greek bonds carry
coupons averaging 4 percent, he said after chairing a meeting of
European finance ministers in Brussels yesterday.  ‘Maximum’ Offer  Policy makers also discussed new fiscal rules and an
enhanced rescue fund for debt-strapped countries before a
European leaders’ summit next week.  Bondholders negotiating the debt swap with Greece have made
their “maximum” offer,  Charles Dallara , managing director of
the Washington-based  Institute of International Finance , told
Athens-based Antenna TV last weekend. Dallara is representing
private creditors in the talks.  The Australian dollar retreated from a 12-week high against
the greenback after its 14-day relative-strength index
approached 70 yesterday, a level that some traders see as a sign
that an asset may change direction.  Australia ’s currency
weakened 0.5 percent to $1.0468, after reaching $1.0573
yesterday, the highest since Oct. 31.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Goodman  in  London  at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in  Tokyo  at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net ; 