-- EU Eases Sanctions on Myanmar After Some Political Prisoners Are Freed
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y   a n d   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-01-24T03:38:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/european-union-eases-sanctions-on-myanmar-after-political-prisoners-freed.html
The European Union lifted travel
restrictions on Myanmar’s top leaders after they freed political
prisoners, easing some sanctions before an April by-election in
which  Aung San Suu Kyi  will participate.  Visa bans on the country’s leadership will be suspended as
a “first step” in response to “the remarkable program of
political reform,” EU foreign ministers said after a meeting in
Brussels yesterday. “The EU considers that the recent release
of a substantial number of political prisoners marks a crucial
step forward.”  The move allows President  Thein Sein , two vice presidents,
Cabinet members and speakers of the two houses of parliament to
obtain visas to  Europe , the ministers said in a statement,
adding they would consider lifting other restrictions in April.
The EU has banned weapons sales, frozen assets and blocked
imports of minerals since first imposing sanctions in 1996.  Freeing political prisoners has been a primary demand of
U.S. and European policy makers who imposed sanctions on
Myanmar, which ended more than five decades of military rule
with an election in 2010. Since then, Thein Sein has released
dissidents, eased media restrictions and sought peace with
ethnic rebels.  Hillary Clinton , who last month made the first trip to
Myanmar by a secretary of state since 1955, moved to upgrade
diplomatic relations after hundreds of prisoners were freed on
Jan. 13. U.S. Senators  John McCain ,  Joseph Lieberman  and  Mitch
McConnell  visited the country this month.  ‘Increasingly Possible’          “If you had asked me during my last visit here whether I
could envision the Congress lifting all sanctions against this
country, I would have said that such a scenario seemed faint and
distant,” McCain  told reporters  in Yangon, the former capital,
on Jan. 22. “Today, however, it appears increasingly
possible.”  The process of easing U.S. sanctions in place since 1988
should begin after an assessment of the April 1 by-election,
McCain said. Various congressional acts and presidential orders
ban imports, restrict money transfers, curb aid money, freeze
assets and target jewelry with gemstones originating in Myanmar.  Suu Kyi’s National League for Democracy party, which
boycotted the 2010 election, will contest by-elections for 48
seats in the 664-seat Parliament on April 1. She asked for the
visa bans to be lifted, according to an EU official who asked to
remain unidentified because the talks were private.  The EU’s foreign-policy chief, Cathy Ashton, said before
the meeting that ministers have been “working closely” with
Suu Kyi and that she will visit Myanmar, probably in April.  Myanmar’s “government has taken important measures towards
the freeing of political prisoners and holding free elections
and we should recognize that,” U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague , who visited Myanmar earlier this month, said before the
meeting in Brussels yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  