-- Euro-Area Consumer Confidence Rises in Sign of Stabilization
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-01-23T15:28:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/europe-consumer-confidence-improved-in-january-commission-says.html
Euro-area  consumer confidence  gained
ground in January, adding to signs that the euro-area economy
may be stabilizing.  An index of household sentiment in the single-currency area
rose to minus 20.6 from a revised minus 21.3 in December, the
Brussels-based European Commission said in an initial estimate
today. Economists had forecast a drop to minus 21.4, the median
of 25 estimates in a  Bloomberg survey  showed.  “Concerns about the economic outlook, jobs, tightening
fiscal policy in many countries and the sovereign risk crisis
weighed down on overall euro-zone consumer confidence,” said
 Howard Archer , an economist at IHS Global Insight in  London , in
answer to an e-mail before the report. “This would not bode
well for  consumer spending  in the early months of 2012 and would
fuel concern that the euro zone will see further economic
contraction in the first quarter after a likely drop” in the
fourth quarter.  The euro extended gains after the data were released,
trading at $1.3035 at 4:24 p.m. in Brussels, up 0.8 percent.  Euro-area finance ministers are meeting in Brussels today
to discuss tougher budget-deficit rules as the region teeters on
the brink of a recession and after  Standard & Poor’s  cut the
credit rating of nine euro-area nations. Nevertheless, European
Central Bank President Mario Draghi said last week that 2012
will be a “much better” year for the euro area, as governments
implement austerity plans and as ECB cash injections to aid the
region start taking effect.  The finance ministers’ meeting comes after EU foreign
ministers imposed an embargo on oil imports from  Iran , a move
that may strain the economies of Greece, Spain and Italy, which
accounted for about 68 percent of EU imports from Iran in 2010,
commission data show.  Carrefour SA (CA) , the world’s second-largest retailer, said on
Jan. 19 that 2011 profit was at the lower end of its reduced
forecast range after fourth-quarter sales declined. Chief
Financial Officer Pierre-Jean Sivignon said sales were affected
by lower discretionary spending and economic conditions are
likely to remain “challenging amid an uncertain environment.”  S&P’s rating downgrades on Jan. 13 stripped France and
Austria of their AAA status.  Germany  was left with the euro-
area’s only stable AAA rating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in Brussels at  sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  