-- Evergreen Energy Files for Bankruptcy, Cites Lack of Financing
-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2012-01-24T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/evergreen-energy-files-for-bankruptcy-liquidation-1-.html
Evergreen Energy Inc. (EVEI) , a developer
of alternative fuel products, filed for  bankruptcy protection ,
saying it was impossible to maintain operations with a lack of
financing.  The company listed assets of about $240 million and debt of
$25 million in Chapter 7 documents filed yesterday in U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington,  Delaware . Chapter 7 proceedings
let companies liquidate their assets while being protected from
creditors.  Evergreen “remains unable to obtain additional financing
and, given its current financial condition, there is substantial
doubt that the company will be able to continue operations,”
Evergreen said in a Jan. 13 filing with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission.  The company was notified by its partner in a joint venture
in China that both had to raise from $40 million to $50 million
for design and construction of a so-called K-Fuel facility in
 China  to meet an agreement signed by the Chinese parter with a
coal mining company on Dec. 22, 2011, according the SEC filing.  Evergreen’s bankruptcy follows the failure of at least two
U.S. government-backed renewable energy companies. Solar panel
maker Solyndra LLC and energy storage company  Beacon Power Corp (BCONQ) .
filed for bankruptcy last year after receiving government loan
guarantees.  Assets, Debt  Beacon, based in Tyngsboro, Massachusetts, sought Chapter
11 protection on Oct. 30 in Delaware, listing assets of
$72 million and debt totaling $47 million, including
$39.1 million owing on a government-guaranteed loan. Beacon
built a $69 million facility with 20 megawatts of balancing
capacity in Stephentown,  New York , funded mostly by a U.S.
Energy Department loan. The company is set to auction assets
next month.  Solyndra, which received $535 million in government loan
guarantees, is proceeding with court-approved auctions of its
core assets after failing to draw any offers to continue
operating the company.  The company, based in Fremont,  California , sought Chapter
11 protection Sept. 6. Two days later its offices were raided by
the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The solar-panel maker
listed about $854.1 million in assets and about $867.1 million
in debt in court papers filed Oct. 31.  The case is In re Evergreen Energy Inc., 12- 10289,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 