-- Ex-AFG CEO Aaron Hand Pleads Guilty to Plot to Kill Witness Who Testified
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-01-23T16:13:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/ex-afg-ceo-aaron-hand-pleads-guilty-to-plot-to-kill-witness-who-testified.html
Ex-AFG Financial Group Inc. Chief
Executive Officer Aaron Hand, already imprisoned for his role in
a fraudulent $100 million mortgage scheme, pleaded guilty today
to plotting to kill a witness who testified against him.  Hand, 40, sentenced in 2010 to as long as 25 years in
prison, pleaded guilty today before Judge Laura Ward in  New York 
State Supreme Court in  Manhattan  to one count of conspiracy to
commit murder.  Hand, who faces 8 1/2 to 16 years in prison on this plea,
is scheduled to be sentenced Feb. 6, prosecutors said in a
statement. His sentence is to run consecutive with the one is he
already serving, according to prosecutors.  “The defendant’s actions strike at the heart of the
justice system,” Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus R. Vance Jr.
said today in a statement. “Nothing is more important than the
safety of witnesses.”  Hand pleaded not guilty when he was charged in October. His
lawyer at the time, Kevin Canfield, said his client was
entrapped by the police.  “Entrapment is an extremely difficult affirmative
defense,” Hand’s lawyer, Lee Ginsberg, said outside court
today. “This was a more appropriate way to resolve the
situation.”  Hand was the mastermind of a mortgage scheme that defrauded
 Bank of America Corp. ,  Wells Fargo & Co.  and other banks,
according to Vance’s office, which said it won convictions
against all 27 people charged.  In August, an investigator with the district attorney’s
office received a tip that Hand, while incarcerated at New York
State Coxsackie Correctional Facility, was attempting to arrange
the murder of a witness who testified against him during a nine-
week trial in July 2010, according to the October statement.  The case is People v. Hand, 4870/2011, New York Supreme
Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 