-- Texas Redistricting Schedule Changed to Keep Election Date
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-01-24T00:19:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/texas-redistricting-court-schedule-changed-to-help-keep-april-primary-date.html
A federal court conference on
Texas’s redistricting plan was moved up to Jan. 27 after state
Attorney General  Greg Abbott  said the previous schedule didn’t
allow time for the primary election to be held April 3.  U.S. District Judge Orlando Garcia in San Antonio today
said representatives of the Republican and Democratic parties
should be present at the status conference set for the end of
this week.  “If all the parties wish to maintain the current election
schedule, they should confer and submit agreed-upon interim maps
for this court’s consideration by Feb. 6,” Garcia said in a
written order. “This court would not be bound by any such
agreement but would take it into careful consideration in
announcing interim plans.”  The  U.S. Supreme Court (1000L)  on Jan. 20 threw out judge-drawn
voting districts for this year’s state and federal elections in
 Texas  in a ruling that may help Republicans keep control of the
U.S. House of Representatives. The justices unanimously told a
lower court panel comprised of Garcia and two other judges to
create maps more similar to the Republican-controlled state
Legislature’s plan.  Texas Governor  Rick Perry , a Republican, asked the panel to
speed up its re-consideration to avoid “further delay of
Texas’s primary elections,” according to Abbott’s filing today,
which noted that the U.S. Supreme Court had ruled on the issue
in just 11 days. The only explanation for the high court’s
“quick ruling is that it wanted this court to have the
opportunity to create new interim maps before February 1, 2012,
in order to avoid further delays in the primary elections,”
Perry’s lawyers said. “There is no reason this court cannot
complete that task in time.”  Interim Maps  Garcia said in today’s order that, if the parties cannot
agree on interim maps, they should indicate which districts on
the Legislature’s enacted maps they no longer object to in light
of the  Supreme Court ’s decision. The judge also said he will
again consider the possibility of splitting the primary, with
the Republican presidential contest on April 3 and state races
at a later date.  In December, the judge ordered that all primary elections
would be held April 3, rather than on March 6, Super Tuesday,
after state Republicans and Democrats struck a deal to avoid
multiple primaries.  2010 Census  The dispute stems from maps drawn last year by the
Republican-controlled Texas Legislature after the 2010 census.
Perry, until last week a candidate for president, signed the
maps into law. The U.S. Supreme Court ruled Jan. 20 that federal
judges in Texas overstepped their authority by drawing up
interim voting plans.  “The court understands that the attorney general and
lieutenant governor and other representatives of the state
Legislature would like to have a unified primary on April 3,”
Mike Walz, a spokesman for Lieutentant Governor David Dewhurst,
said in a phone interview.  The case is Perez v. Perry, 5:11-cv-00360, U.S. District
Court, Western District of Texas ( San Antonio ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com 
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 