-- Texas Instruments Beats Estimates in Sign Components Market Bottoming Out
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-01-24T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/texas-instruments-profit-sales-tops-estimates.html
Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN)  rose almost 5
percent in extended trading after fourth-quarter sales and
profit declined less than analysts had predicted, signaling that
the market for electronic components has bottomed out.  Net income fell 68 percent to $298 million, or 25 cents a
share, from $942 million, or 78 cents, a year earlier, the
Dallas-based company said yesterday in a statement. Sales
dropped 3 percent to $3.42 billion. Analysts had predicted
profit of 23 cents a share and revenue of $3.25 billion on
average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Texas Instruments is the world’s largest maker of analog
chips -- semiconductors that are key components in everything
from satellites to refrigerators -- making its earnings a broad
indicator of demand across the economy. While the company isn’t
predicting a surge in orders, the industry may be nearing the
end of a sales slump. Texas Instruments also is closing down two
plants, a move that may save $100 million a year.  “Inventories are really low and customers are starting to
order again,” said Tore Svanberg, an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus
& Co. in  San Francisco . He recommends buying shares of Texas
Instruments, which he owns himself.  Texas Instruments traded as high as $34.70 in extended
trading after the announcement. The  stock , down 10 percent in
2011, had closed at $33.19 in  New York .  ‘At the Bottom’  First-quarter revenue will be $3.02 billion to $3.28
billion, the company predicted. Analysts on average had
estimated $3.22 billion. Profit will be 16 cents to 24 cents a
share, Texas Instruments said. The company completed its $6.4
billion  purchase  of National Semiconductor Corp. in September,
so the most recent period is the first full quarter to reflect
the acquisition’s financial performance.  “We are positioning ourselves for a resumption of growth
in the second quarter,” Chief Financial Officer Kevin March
said in an interview. Customers are beginning to replenish their
inventories of chips, he said. Still, “it’s a little early for
us to declare victory.”  The company has been phasing out its wireless baseband
products, which serve as the communications processor in mobile
phones, letting it focus on more profitable areas. Revenue from
that market will drop to $75 million in the first quarter from
$279 million in the previous three months, March said. Excluding
those sales, the company expects  revenue  to decline about 2
percent, compared with a typical sequential drop of 4 percent.  The company plans to shut down chip factories in Houston
and  Japan  over the next 18 months because upgrading the plants
would be too costly. The move, which affects about 1,000
workers, will result in one-time expenses of about $215 million.  Avnet Inc. (AVT) ,  Arrow Electronics Inc. (3020)  and  WPG Holdings Ltd. (3702) ,
three of Texas Instruments’ largest customers, are all
distributors of electronic components. They account for a
combined 18 percent of the company’s sales, according to supply-
chain data  compiled by Bloomberg .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  