-- Fairfax’s Watsa May Increase RIM Stake After Joining Board
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2012-01-23T18:39:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/fairfax-financial-s-watsa-may-increase-rim-stake-after-joining-board.html
Prem Watsa, who patterns his value
investments after  Warren Buffett , said his Canadian insurance
company may buy more shares of  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  after
Watsa was appointed to the board of the BlackBerry maker,  Watsa, 61, was named a RIM director late yesterday as part
of an executive shuffle that saw co-Chief Executive Officers Jim Balsillie and  Mike Lazaridis  step down. Watsa’s Toronto-based
 Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd. (FFH)  owned 3.4 million RIM shares at
the end of September, making it the fourth-largest investor,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We are looking at purchasing more” shares, said  Paul Rivett , a Fairfax spokesman. Watsa, the Fairfax CEO and
chairman, was travelling and unavailable to comment, Rivett
said.  Born in Hyderabad, India, Watsa built Fairfax by investing
the assets of insurance operations in out-of-favor securities.
RIM, once the most valuable company in  Canada , has lost 88
percent since its peak in 2008.  Fairfax benefited from declines in U.S. banks during the
financial crisis, purchasing credit-default swaps on lenders.
The swaps, instruments based on bonds and loans that are used to
speculate on a company’s ability to repay debt, led to
investment gains of $2.72 billion in 2008.  Shares of Toronto-based Fairfax have risen more than 25
times since May 1987, according to Bloomberg  data . Fairfax rose
0.9 percent to C$418 at 12:28 p.m. in Toronto. The market value
of C$8.96 billion tops RIM’s value of C$8.37 billion.  Muni Bonds  Watsa has shifted in recent years to investing in U.S.
municipal bonds backed by Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , and
since 2009 has recommended shares of companies such as Wells
Fargo & Co., Johnson & Johnson, Kraft Foods Inc. and US Bancorp.  “The underlying fundamentals are there for everyone to
see, but it’s boring,” Watsa told reporters last year. “No one
wants to buy something that will take five, six years” to
double in value.  Last week, Fairfax agreed to invest about $70 million for
a 25 percent stake in Thailand’s Thai Resinsurance Public Co. to
expand its holdings in Asia.  Over the last year, Fairfax has agreed to buy stakes in
Canadian retailers William Ashley China Ltd. and Sporting Life
Inc., and bought Prime Restaurants Inc. for about C$53 million.  Not all of Fairfax’s investments have been successful.
Watsa said in 2009 that Fairfax wrote down its investment in
CanWest Global Communications Corp., a media company, after the
value of its 22 million share stake plunged 94 percent in a
year. The company also wrote down investments in publisher
Torstar Corp. and AbitibiBowater Inc. at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 David Scanlan  at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 