-- Takeda Wins U.S. FDA Approval for New Way to Adminster Velcade to Patients
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y   a n d   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-01-24T01:27:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/fda-approves-takeda-s-subcutaneous-administration-of-velcade.html
Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. (4502) ,  Asia ’s
biggest drugmaker, won U.S. approval to administer its cancer
medicine Velcade under the skin, a form of injection that causes
fewer patients to experience the drug’s side effects.  The  Food and Drug Administration  cleared the treatment for
multiple myeloma, a type of blood cancer, the Osaka, Japan-based
company said in a statement. The new method reduced the number
of patients who experienced severe nerve damage, Takeda said.  Velcade was approved by the U.S. regulator in 2003 as an
intravenous injection and generated $594 million in  sales  for
the year ended March 31, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. With fewer side effects, the under-the-skin injection
will probably become the preferred method of administration,
said Deborah Dunsire, chief executive officer of Takeda’s
Millennium Pharmaceuticals.  “We’ll have more patients that can stay on Velcade
longer,” Dunsire said in an interview. “That could be a reason
for sales to expand.”  Takeda  rose  1.1 percent to 3,280 yen as of 10:23 a.m. in
Tokyo trading, while the Topix Index was little changed. The
shares have dropped 18 percent in the past 12 months.  Of 222 relapsed multiple myeloma patients in a Takeda-
sponsored clinical trial, 38 percent who got the drug
subcutaneously experienced the nerve damage called peripheral
neuropathy, compared with 53 percent who received it through an
intravenous injection, according to a Dec. 7, 2010, statement
from the company.  Severe Side Effects  The subcutaneous administration also decreased Velcade’s
association with severe adverse side effects, which led fewer
patients to discontinue therapy. Of patients receiving the
medicine just below the skin’s surface, 57 percent experienced
severe side effects and 22 percent ended treatment, compared
with 70 percent who received the drug intravenously and 27
percent who stopped using it, according to the 2010 statement.  The treatment worked consistently when given through either
means, it said.  The new method of delivering the drug was an accidental
discovery by a nurse in  France , who was working with an elderly
patient and couldn’t easily find a vein for an intravenous
injection, said Dunsire.  “For reasons I don’t quite know, the nurse decided to
administer the drug subcutaneously,” she said. “She reported
this to the supervising physician, who immediately checked on
the patient, who actually did extremely well, and was able to
then continue receiving Velcade subcutaneously.”  One benefit of the new delivery method is that medical
assistants, who aren’t allowed to give intravenous injections,
can administer the drug under the skin, she said.  “We do anticipate that the vast majority ultimately will
switch over,” Dunsire said.  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based  Johnson & Johnson  markets
the drug outside the U.S.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net ;
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  