-- Fed Dual Mandate Shows Bernanke’s Model Working Better as Economy Quickens
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-01-23T00:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/fed-inflation-unemployment-mandate-shows-bernanke-s-model-better-in-crisis.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s focus on full employment and price stability is being
validated as the U.S. expansion gains speed and his counterparts
in  Europe  emulate his approach.  Bernanke pursued new stimulus last year to create jobs,
defying critics who said his record accommodation would spark
inflation. Now, with U.S. growth accelerating and the euro area
on the brink of a second recession in three years, Bank of
England Governor  Mervyn King  and European Central Bank President
Mario Draghi are showing they also are willing to spur their
economies while inflation exceeds their goals.  “The Fed’s been a success at preventing a catastrophe”
from reoccurring after the credit crisis, said  Mark Gertler , a
professor at  New York University  who has co-authored research
with Bernanke. “Originally, central banks came about to prevent
the debilitating effects of financial crises, so I view the dual
mandate as the Fed doing its historical job.”  The U.S. is forecast to grow at a 2.3 percent rate in 2012,
according to the median estimate of 70 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey. That’s almost eight times faster than the 0.3
percent expansion the ECB predicts for the euro region.  Bernanke’s focus on growth “has helped signal to the
markets that if we have temporary blips in inflation, the Fed
isn’t going to go crazy and try to stabilize the price level at
any cost to the economy,” Gertler said.  After completing $600 billion of bond purchases last June 
-- which unleashed the harshest political backlash in three
decades -- Bernanke took additional easing steps in August and
September, even though the personal-consumption-expenditures
price index rose 2.9 percent in each of those months, the
fastest in about three years.  Rising Unemployment  The  Federal Open Market Committee , which begins a two-day
meeting in  Washington  tomorrow, acted after unemployment  began
rising  in April, following its decline to 8.9 percent in March
from 9.8 percent in November 2010. In August, when joblessness
was 9.1 percent, the Fed pledged to keep  interest rates  near
zero until mid-2013.  In September, U.S. policy makers decided to replace $400
billion of short-term debt in their portfolio with longer-term
Treasuries, in an effort to lower borrowing costs even more and
combat rising risks of a recession.  “Having the dual mandate makes it easier to justify
additional stimulus when overall inflation news is relatively
high,” said  Dean Maki , chief U.S. economist at  Barclays Capital 
in  New York . “It’s an easy argument to make that the
unemployment rate is too high and our job is to move it down.”  After the Fed’s actions, unemployment fell to 8.5 percent
in December, the lowest in almost three years.  ‘Ben’s Big Gamble’  Some economists who showed skepticism about Bernanke’s
record stimulus measures now acknowledge they seem to be
working.  Steven Bell , chief economist at hedge fund GLC Ltd. in
 London , raised questions about the efficacy of Bernanke’s
policies in 2008 in a report entitled “Ben’s Big Gamble.”
While Bernanke was “laughed at” then for aggressively cutting
rates, the policies have helped, Bell said.  “When the history is written of the global financial
crisis, Bernanke’s reputation will be incredibly high,” said
Bell, a former U.K. Treasury official who studied under Bernanke
at  Stanford University  in  California . “He’s displayed
extraordinary leadership.”  Bernanke has succeeded so far in warding off a surge in
prices. The PCE index rose 2.5 percent for the 12 months ending
in November, down from September’s 2.9 percent, and inflation
expectations show investors anticipate that the Fed will achieve
its longer-run goal of 1.7 percent to 2 percent.  Falling Break-Even Rate  The break-even rate for five-year Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities, the yield difference between the
inflation-linked debt and comparable maturity Treasuries, was
1.69 percentage points on Jan. 20.  The rate , a measure of the
outlook for consumer prices over the life of the securities, has
fallen from 2.47 points on April 29.  Since Draghi took over as ECB president Nov. 1, he has cut
its benchmark  twice , returning it to a record low 1 percent as
he predicts a “mild” recession in the 17-nation economy. The
central bank also has sought to jump-start its financial system
so it better transmits the easier monetary policy. It eased in
December collateral rules it imposes on emergency loans and
handed banks an unprecedented 489 billion euros ($632 billion)
in cash for three years in an operation it will repeat next
month.  Unlike the Fed, the ECB is mandated to deliver  price
stability , which it defines as headline inflation running at
just below 2 percent in the medium term. The  Maastricht Treaty ,
which created the euro, says the central bank can keep rates low
if policy makers judge that price stability is guaranteed.  ‘Harmonious and Balanced’  “Without prejudice to the objective of price stability,”
the ECB “shall support the general economic policies in the
community with a view to contributing to the achievement” of
goals including “a harmonious and balanced development of
economic activities,” according to the treaty.  The inflation rate was  2.7 percent  in December, slowing
from 3 percent the previous month and the lowest since August.
The ECB predicted in December that inflation will average about
2 percent this year and 1.5 percent in 2013.  Asked Jan. 12 if the ECB is open to cutting rates further,
Draghi said it depends on the inflation outlook. JPMorgan Chase
& Co., Barclays Capital and UBS AG are predicting the ECB will
reduce its benchmark to 0.5 percent by the middle of the year.  “If you look at the recent behavior of the central banks
that don’t have an employment mandate, they sure act like they
have one,” said  Robert Eisenbeis , a former research director at
the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta who’s now chief monetary
economist for Sarasota, Florida-based Cumberland Advisors.
“These are unusual and uncharted times.”  Support Growth  The mandate for the  Bank of England  is to “maintain price
stability” and “subject to that,” support the government’s
growth and employment objectives, according to the  Bank of
England Act .  Even with that directive, and an inflation target of 2
percent, the Bank of England resisted raising rates last year
from a record-low  0.5 percent  as consumer-price growth soared to
5.2 percent. While three of the bank’s nine policy makers voted
for an increase, King said at the time that the surge was
temporary and attempting to bring inflation back to the goal
quickly “risks generating undesirable volatility in output.”  In October, the bank announced 75 billion pounds of
government-bond purchases, after buying 200 billion pounds
between March 2009 and early 2010. The new program is due to end
early next month, and some policy makers have indicated more may
be needed.  Fed’s Focus  Bernanke’s approach hasn’t been without controversy, and
some Republicans want the Fed to focus solely on price
stability. Representative Kevin Brady of  Texas , the top
Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, said last month that
he’s drafting legislation to give the Fed a single mandate.  “This financial crisis really has raised a legitimate
question: What is the role of the Fed?” he said in a December
interview in Washington. The debate is happening “not just
among lawmakers but among the public as well.”  While the Fed’s stimulus efforts have so far failed to
cause the surge in inflation predicted by its critics, a too-
high  unemployment rate  may make it more difficult for the U.S.
central bank to tighten monetary policy when price stability is
threatened, according to Eisenbeis.  “The potential problem of the dual mandate is on the exit
side,” he said. Raising interest rates “becomes more difficult
if you’re sitting on an unemployment rate that people feel is
far from the objective.”  ‘Treacherous or Treasonous’  The criticism of the Fed has extended to the presidential
campaign trail, with Republican candidates Mitt Romney and Newt Gingrich saying that they wouldn’t keep Bernanke, whose four-
year term expires on Jan. 31, 2014, as Fed chairman. Rick Perry,
who suspended his campaign last week, said in August that
additional stimulus measures from Bernanke would be “almost
treacherous -- or treasonous,” and “we would treat him pretty
ugly down in Texas,” where the Republican is governor.  The criticism is “raw politics,” as the Fed’s dual
mandate has “worked pretty well” and led to stable inflation,
Gertler said. “The Fed isn’t trying to fine-tune the real
economy, it’s trying to prevent things from falling off a
cliff.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  