-- Fighting in Libyan Town Still Loyal to Qaddafi
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   S t e p h e n
-- 2012-01-23T19:27:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/fighting-flares-in-libyan-town-still-loyal-to-qaddafi-regime.html
Fighting broke out today in the
Libyan town of Bani Walid, one of the last settlements to stay
loyal to the former regime of the late  Muammar Qaddafi ,
according to Libyan defense minister Osama Jweli.  Jweli said he had reports of battles in the center of the
town. Jweli, who said pro-government forces were on standby to
intervene, said in a telephone interview he couldn’t confirm
reports in Tripoli media that the fighting was the result of an
uprising by pro-Qaddafi forces.  Tripoli media quoted Bani Walid’s council spokesman, Mahmud
Warfelli, as saying pro-Qaddafi units had taken control of most
of the town and that the green flag, the banner of the former
regime, was flying in the streets.  He was quoted as saying pro-government fighters were
holding positions inside an army base that was under attack and
four had been killed.  “I have seen the reports of the fighting, but for the
moment the situation is unclear,” said Jweli. “There are
reports of green flags flying, but I cannot confirm this. It may
be internal fighting.”  Residents of the town, which was among the last to fall to
rebel forces during the rebellion against Qaddafi, have asked
for help to thwart the attack, al Arabiya television reported,
citing its correspondent.  Pro-government militia units wouldn’t be sent to intervene
in the town, which is 100 miles south-east of Tripoli, until the
cause of the fighting was clear, the defense minister said.  Bani Walid held out for several weeks following the fall of
Tripoli to rebel forces in late August.  Government Protested  In recent months, there have been regular skirmishes
between militias in western  Libya , underlining the failure of
the ruling National Transitional Council to establish control of
all Libya’s fighting forces.  Units from Misrata, home to the largest Libyan militia,
which is loyal to Jweli, had taken up positions between the
coastal city and Bani Walid today, according to local media
reporting.  The National Transitional Council faces protests across
Libya over its failure to deliver the promised law governing
elections planned for June.  It had originally agreed to make the law public last
weekend. An announced delay until January 28 sparked protests in
Tripoli and in Benghazi, the council’s seat of power.  Protesters yesterday occupied the council’s Benghazi
headquarters, accusing the government of failing to make its
deliberations public, and hours later council deputy leader
Abdul Hafez Ghoga resigned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Stephen in Tripoli, Libya at 
 cstephen9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  