-- Finance Remains Least-Trusted Industry in Annual Edelman Survey
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-01-23T12:04:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/finance-remains-least-trusted-industry-in-annual-edelman-survey.html
Less than half of the public trust
 financial services  and  banks  to do what is right, making them
the least-trusted industries for the second year in a row,
according to an annual  survey  by public relations firm Edelman.  Banks are trusted by 47 percent of the public, down from 50
percent a year ago, while the percentage who said financial-
services companies will do the right thing dropped to 45 percent
from 48 percent, according to interviews in 20 countries from
Oct. 10 to Nov. 30.  Technology (MXWO0IT)  companies topped the ranking with
79 percent, down from 80 percent.  Trust in government officials, regulators and chief
executive officers as “credible spokespeople” dropped the most
in the 12-year history of Edelman’s Trust Barometer survey. CEO
trust plunged to 38 percent from 50 percent a year earlier,
while the percentage that say they see government and regulators
as credible dropped to 29 percent from 43 percent.  Even though government leaders were less trusted than their
counterparts in business in all of the countries surveyed except
 Singapore , 49 percent of the survey respondents said they want
more government regulation of business.  The survey, conducted by research firm StrategyOne for
Edelman, consisted of 20-minute online interviews focused on so-
called members of the “informed public” -- college graduates
whose household income is in the top quartile for their age in
their country and who follow public-policy issues in the news at
least several times a week.  The Financial Times reported the survey’s results yesterday
on its website. Edelman releases the Trust Barometer survey
results annually at the start of the  World Economic Forum ’s
annual meeting in Davos,  Switzerland .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  