-- Florida’s Republican Primary Pits Romney Money Against Gingrich Momentum
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-01-23T12:32:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/florida-s-republican-primary-pits-romney-money-against-gingrich-momentum.html
Mitt Romney  limped into  Florida 
trying to reclaim his status as the Republican front-runner,
with the state’s electorate and expensive media markets offering
a possible firewall against  Newt Gingrich ’s surging candidacy.  Still, the first major event of the primary race leading up
to the Jan. 31 vote will be a debate tonight, a forum where the
former House speaker has excelled.  Florida is an exemplar of a troubled national economy,
ranking seventh in the U.S. in the rate of  foreclosure filings 
per household and with unemployment at 9.9 percent. Romney’s
focus on jobs and growth may be a better fit here, with fewer
voters emphasizing issues such as abortion and gay marriage.  “This is a state where fiscal conservatism is much
stronger than social conservatism,” said  Susan MacManus , a
political science professor at the University of South Florida.  With 18.8 million residents -- 6 percent of the total U.S.
population -- Florida also reflects the nation more than the
three states that preceded it on the nominating calendar. Its
 population  grew 17.6 percent between 2000 and 2010, fueled by
immigrants, transplants and retirees.  “It’s a place that gives you a good indication of where
the country is at,” said Dario Moreno, a political science
professor at Florida International University in Miami. “It
also tends to be a very moderate state in Republican politics.
That could be a good thing for Romney.”  Florida Hard Hit  The presence of so many retirees -- 17.3 percent of the
population is 65 or older, compared with a national average of
13 percent -- means that  Medicare (USBOMDCA)  and Social Security are likely
to be folded into the campaign discussion more often than they
were in the earlier-voting states. That conversation will center
on two Florida debates, including the one tonight in Tampa.  Florida, holding the fourth of the nominating contests, is
a central battleground for White House hopefuls.  President  Barack Obama , who won the state by 2.8 percentage
points in 2008, displayed his continued interest in Florida last
week by visiting Walt Disney World to pitch the U.S. tourist
industry before the Republican candidate arrivals.  The Bloomberg Economic Evaluation of States index shows a
state in decline since Obama took office, when compared with the
health of other states’ economies. The data shows Florida’s
economic health fell 12.4 percent from the first quarter of
2009, when Obama took office, to the third quarter of last year,
including a 22.5 percent decline in  home prices .  Convention Choice  Republicans consider Florida and its 29 electoral votes --
more than one-tenth of the total needed to elect a president --
so crucial that they will host their  national convention  in
Tampa in August.  The state could generate a second victory for someone in
the primaries -- after Gingrich’s win in  South Carolina ,
Romney’s in New Hampshire and former Pennsylvania Senator  Rick Santorum ’s in  Iowa ’s caucuses.  Interviewed near the convention arena, Sam Quiros, 42, said
he “doesn’t understand” why Romney lagged in South Carolina,
although it hasn’t shaken his plans to vote for him.  “His strong experience from the private sector is a lot
more appealing,” said Quiros, a project manager for a document-
management company who was spending a weekend afternoon docked
aboard his “Lady Q” powerboat. “I like Newt a lot, but I
don’t think he would rally enough people in a general
election.”  Defying Rules  Republican leaders were angered last year when Florida
decided to defy national party rules and moved its primary to
Jan. 31, an action that prompted Iowa,  New Hampshire  and South
Carolina to move their elections forward to protect their early
status. The decision cost Florida half its convention delegates,
leaving it with 50, the prize for the state’s winner-takes-all
primary.  Four years ago, Romney finished second with 31 percent in
the Florida primary, five percentage points behind U.S. Senator
 John McCain  of  Arizona , who essentially clinched the nomination
in the state. Just 39 percent of those voters told exit
pollsters that they considered themselves “born again” or
evangelical Christians. In Iowa and South Carolina, those
numbers were 57 percent and 65 percent.  As helpful as money and organization are, momentum also is
critical. Romney spent more than twice as much as McCain in
Florida, yet McCain’s first-place win in South Carolina 10 days
earlier helped him look like a winner to Florida voters.  Big Media Market  During the past three weeks, Romney’s campaign and its
allies have spent millions of dollars on radio, television and
direct-mail in a state that is one of the costliest because of
its size and 11 media markets. Gingrich has yet to start
 television advertising  in Florida.  Romney’s advertising, in English and Spanish, was designed
to influence early voting in the state. About 200,000 people
already have cast early and absentee ballots during a time when
Romney still appeared to have the momentum.  Through Sept. 30, the most recent date for which Federal
Election Commission reports are available, Romney had  raised 
more than $32.2 million, compared with $2.9 million for
Gingrich.  Romney was running twice as well as Gingrich and Santorum
in a CNN/Time/ORC International poll of likely Republican voters
in Florida taken Jan. 13-17, with Romney supported by 43
percent, Santorum at 19 percent and Gingrich at 18 percent. That
was before Gingrich won South Carolina, a prize claimed by every
Republican nominated for president since 1980.  Romney’s Taxes  Giving into pressure from Gingrich and others, Romney has
agreed to release his 2010 tax return and his estimates for his
2011 return tomorrow. “We just made a mistake in holding off as
long as we did,” Romney, a multimillionaire former private-
equity executive, said yesterday on “Fox News Sunday.”  Romney has called on Gingrich to release his consulting
contracts with  Freddie Mac , a government-backed mortgage lending
institution for which the former House speaker says he provided
strategic advice. The two contracts paid Gingrich at least $1.6
million.  U.S. Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas  has said he doesn’t
expect to spend much time campaigning in Florida because he
wants to focus on smaller states like  Nevada ,  Maine  and
 Minnesota  that don’t require as much money.  ‘Go for Broke’  MacManus said she expects the rest of the candidates and
political action committees will spend virtually everything they
have on the state, a windfall for local stations.  “No candidate or PAC is going to sit idly by,” she said.
“They are all going to go for broke, and the TV stations are
salivating at the possibility.”  Through Jan. 19, Romney’s campaign already had spent $2.4
million on television ads in the state, according to data from
New York-based Kantar Media’s CMAG, which tracks advertising. A
political action committee that backs him, Restore Our Future,
had spent another $2.4 million, all of it negative in tone
against other candidates, according to CMAG. Romney’s campaign
ads have run most frequently in the Orlando and Tampa markets,
the data shows, reflecting central Florida’s importance.  Almost half the state’s 4 million registered Republicans --
45 percent -- live in the Orlando and Tampa media markets,
according to MacManus’ research. Known to locals as the I-4
corridor -- for the interstate highway that runs from Tampa to
Daytona Beach -- the area is identified by its citrus groves,
retirement communities and tourism.  Seeking Endorsements  Romney is working to secure the endorsements of Republican
leaders in Florida, although he can’t expect the formal backing
of former Governor Jeb Bush. In a Bloomberg News interview this
weekend, Bush said he plans to “stay neutral” and warned the
candidates to leave the “circular firing squad” of their
debates behind and appeal to a broader audience of voters.  Bush isn’t the only one on the sidelines. U.S. Senator
Marco Rubio of Miami, elected with the support of Tea Party
Republicans who favor smaller government, has been silent. So
has Governor  Rick Scott , a first-termer whose own popularity has
slid in opinion polls since his 2010 election.  Doug Johnson, 59, a retired tomato farmer from Brooksville,
said he hasn’t decided whom to support.  “It will help if things get narrowed down,” Johnson said
outside a Tiffany & Co. store at an upscale mall in Tampa. “My
top concern is that whoever we pick can win in November.”  Johnson said he thinks that either Romney or Gingrich could
win. One thing he’s not including in his decision-making is
allegations that Gingrich asked his second wife for an “open
marriage” during the 1990s while having an affair with the
woman who became his third wife. Gingrich has denied this.  “I’ve got an ex-wife who won’t stay in the same building
as me,” he said. “I take it with a grain of salt.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  