-- For-Profit Colleges Face Curbs on U.S. Aid in New Veterans Bill
-- B y   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r
-- 2012-01-23T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/for-profit-colleges-face-curbs-on-u-s-aid-in-new-veterans-bill.html
For-profit colleges would be forced
to rely less on federal money under a bill aimed at curbing the
marketing of degrees to soldiers and veterans.  The proposed legislation, to be introduced tomorrow by
Senate Democratic leaders, would require for-profit colleges to
get no more than 85 percent of their revenue from federal
programs, according to a summary from the office of Illinois
Senator  Richard Durbin , a co-sponsor. Colleges now can receive
as much as 90 percent. They would lose federal funding for
exceeding the cap for one year, instead of the current three.  Colleges solicit the military because their government
tuition programs are excluded from the cap on federal money,
said Senate education committee Chairman  Tom Harkin , the other
sponsor. The bill would eliminate that incentive by counting
military money, according to Christina Mulka, a spokeswoman for
Durbin, the majority whip, or No. 2 Senate Democrat.  The legislation “will close a loophole that has made
veterans and active duty military major targets of deceptive
marketing and aggressive recruitment, rather than students
treated with the respect their service deserves,” Harkin, who
represents  Iowa , said in a statement.  Eight for-profit college companies received about $626
million in veterans’ education benefits in the most recent
academic year, the Senate education committee said in a November
report. The eight include  Apollo Group Inc. (APOL) , which owns
University of Phoenix, the largest chain by enrollment; and
 Education Management Corp. (EDMC) , the second-biggest.  Apollo, based in Phoenix, rose 2.1 percent to $54.61 at the
New York close on Jan. 20. Pittsburgh-based Education Management
rose less than 1 percent to $25.60.  ‘Skin in the Game’  Congress enacted the cap on federal aid to for-profits as
an anti-fraud provision, so that students -- or employers who
paid for their continuing education -- had “skin in the game,”
not just the federal government, Mulka said. Before 1998, the
law had an 85 percent cap, as the bill now proposes.  Congress, the Education Department, the  Justice Department 
and state attorneys general are scrutinizing the sales practices
and student-loan default rates of for-profit colleges, which
received almost $32 billion in federal grants and loans in the
2009-10 school year.  In articles in 2009 and 2010, Bloomberg News detailed
complaints about the recruiting of soldiers and veterans by for-
profit colleges.  The legislation will create “barriers to critical job-
training and educational programs for veterans,”  Brian Moran ,
interim president of the Washington-based Association of Private
Sector Colleges and Universities, which represents for-profits,
said in a statement last week, when Durbin announced his
intention to introduce legislation on the recruiting of the
military by for-profits. At that time, he provided no details.
He will speak about the issue tomorrow at a Chicago forum.  The industry will lobby against the bill as it did last
year when it successfully pushed to ease proposed regulations
that cut off aid to for-profits whose students struggle the most
to repay their loans, Mulka said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Hechinger in Boston at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at   lwolfson@bloomberg.net . 