-- Foreclosure Deal Won’t Be Reached This Week, Miller Says
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-01-23T22:16:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/foreclosure-probe-meeting-in-chicago-targeted-by-protesters.html
Iowa Attorney General  Tom Miller 
said a deal with the five biggest U.S. mortgage servicers to
resolve a probe of foreclosure practices won’t be reached this
week.  State and federal officials have been negotiating a
settlement with the five largest mortgage servicers --  Bank of
America Corp. ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co .,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Wells Fargo
& Co. (WFC)  and  Ally Financial Inc (ALLY) . Representatives of Democratic
attorney general offices met today at a  Chicago  hotel to discuss
a proposed accord.  The deal with the banks would be worth about $25 billion,
two people familiar with the matter said last week. That would
drop to about $19 billion if California Attorney General Kamala Harris decides not to sign on, the people said.  “We have not yet reached an agreement with the nation’s
five largest servicers, and we won’t reach a settlement any time
this week,” Miller, who has been leading the negotiations for
the states, said in a statement.  Banks would fund loan principal writedowns for homeowners
and provide refinancing, the people said. The proposal also sets
requirements for how to conduct home foreclosures. Delaware
Attorney General  Beau Biden , a Democrat, won’t sign on to the
proposed foreclosure settlement as currently drafted, Deputy
Attorney General Ian McConnel said in a phone interview today.  HUD Secretary  Today’s meeting in Chicago is an opportunity for officials
at Democratic attorney general offices to ask questions before
they are asked to decide whether to sign on. Housing and Urban
Development Secretary Shaun Donovan, who is also attending,
declined to comment during a break.  Republicans will discuss the accord during a conference
call today, one of the people said.  Some state officials at the meeting have questioned how
much monetary relief the agreement will provide to homeowners in
their states, another person familiar with the matter said.  The  attorneys general  from all 50 states announced in 2010
they were investigating bank foreclosure practices after
disclosures that the companies were using faulty documents in
seizing homes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in Chicago at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  