-- Former Exchange Chief Stymiest Takes Helm at RIM in Shakeup
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-01-23T21:16:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/former-toronto-exchange-chief-barbara-stymiest-named-rim-chair-in-shakeup.html
Barbara Stymiest, the former banker
and stock exchange executive who’s been ranked among the world’s
most powerful businesswomen, now faces a new challenge helping
turn around  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM) , the BlackBerry maker that’s
lost 90 percent of its market value in less than four years.  Stymiest, 55, a RIM director since 2007, was named  chairman 
of the Waterloo, Ontario-based company, replacing former co-
Chairmen and co-Chief Executive Officers  Jim Balsillie  and  Mike Lazaridis .  “They’ve not only built an iconic brand, they literally
pioneered the smart phone industry,” Stymiest said in an
interview, referring to Balsillie and Lazaridis.  With the new position, Stymiest shifts from banking and
finance to technology, as the smartphone seller tries to stem a
plunge in sales and declining market share to bigger competitors
such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   She’ll also need to win over shareholders such as Northwest
& Ethical Investments LP and  Jaguar Financial Corp. (JFC) , which had
been pushing for a management overhaul as RIM’s stock plunged.
RIM  fell  9.1 percent to C$15.67 at 4 p.m. trading in Toronto,
the biggest drop in five weeks.  “She’s been part of the problem,” Jaguar CEO Vic Alboini
said in an interview from Toronto. “I don’t think she’s going
to be strong enough to make the changes necessary. We would say
to her, ‘Prove us wrong’.”  Royal Bank Post  Stymiest retired from her post last year as a senior
executive with  Royal Bank of Canada , the country’s largest bank,
saying she wanted to devote more time to board work, charity and
lowering her handicap in golf. She last served as group head of
strategy, treasury and corporate services at the Toronto-based
bank.  Stymiest’s role with Royal Bank had capped a career that
began at Ernst & Young after graduating with a business
administration degree from the  Richard Ivey School of Business 
at the  University of Western Ontario  in 1978. She became partner
at Ernst & Young by age 30, the youngest at the firm,  according 
to the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Ontario.  After Ernst & Young, Stymiest spent seven years with  Bank
of Montreal’s (BMO)  Nesbitt Burns brokerage before joining the Toronto
Stock Exchange as president and CEO in 1999. She was the first
female president of a North American stock exchange, according
to the company’s  history .  Headed Exchange  At the time she took over, the exchange was plagued by a
history of computer problems and breakdowns. She headed Canada’s
largest stock exchange for five years and oversaw the
transformation of the bourse into North America’s first publicly
traded exchange in November 2002, resulting in the creation of
TSX Group Inc., predecessor to  TMX Group Inc. (X)   Royal Bank hired Stymiest to a new role of chief operating
officer during a management overhaul in 2004 after a slump in
the U.S. eroded profit at the bank. She was responsible for
“strategic development,” with all corporate areas reporting to
her, including finance and risk management.  Fortune magazine named her one of the 50 most powerful
women in global business three times from 2006 to 2008, and she
was named one of the “25 Most Powerful Women in Banking” in
2008 by  American Banker .  Stymiest served as a member of the Trilateral Commission,
an international consortium of leaders from business and
government, between 2004 and 2010, overlapping Balsillie’s
involvement from 2006 to 2010.  An avid golfer who also does fly fishing, Stymiest is a
trustee with the Royal Ontario Museum and vice chairman of the
Canadian Institute for Advanced Research. She previously served
as a director for RBC Dexia Investor Services and Symcor Inc., a
financial processing services provider.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  