-- French Business Confidence Unexpectedly Drops
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-01-23T08:43:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/french-business-confidence-unexpectedly-drops.html
French business confidence
unexpectedly fell to the lowest in almost two years this month,
providing the latest sign that  Europe ’s second-largest economy
is mired in a recession.  A gage of  sentiment among factory managers  fell to 91 from
94 in December, national statistics office Insee said today in
Paris. That’s the lowest since February 2010. Economists
forecast a reading of 95, according to the median of 15
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  The decline lends weight to forecasts suggesting that
France has entered its second recession in three years as
European leaders try to end the region’s debt crisis. Finance
ministers will meet in Brussels today to discuss new budget
rules, a financial firewall to protect indebted states and a
Greek debt swap as part of a long-term fix to the turmoil.  “This level of confidence is low and  France  is probably in
a recession,” said Michel Martinez, an economist at  Societe
Generale  in Paris. “Our expectation is that the economy has
stalled or is shrinking, though this will be very mild, nothing
like what happened in 2008 and 2009.”  The euro was little changed against the dollar and traded
at $1.2933 as of 9:42 a.m. in Paris.  Demand Weakens  An index of companies’ orders fell to minus 32 in January
from minus 26 last month, Insee said. Gauges of export orders
and the outlook for production also declined. The survey of
about 4,000 companies was conducted in the week before
publication.  The French economy probably shrank 0.2 percent in the
fourth quarter and may shrink another 0.1 percent in the current
three-month period, before expanding 0.1 percent in the second
quarter of 2012, Insee forecast on Dec. 16. The slowdown began
in the middle of last year amid mounting concern that Europe’s
leaders were failing to get to grips with the debt crisis.  As the turmoil mounted, the  European Central Bank  cut
 interest rates  twice since November and offered banks banks
unlimited loans for three years to prevent a credit crunch. ECB
President  Mario Draghi  said on Jan. 19 that 2012 will be a
“much better” year for the euro area as governments push ahead
with fiscal reforms and the benefits of the flood of cheap cash
become more apparent.  “I am confident that the euro will be in better shape in
2012 because I look at the progress that has been achieved on
the two root causes of the situation, namely lack of fiscal
discipline and lack of structural reform,” Draghi said at a
press conference in Abu Dhabi.  AAA Rating  Returning France to growth is key to helping the government
meet its fiscal targets after  Standard & Poor’s  stripped the
nation of its AAA credit rating for the first time.  President  Nicolas Sarkozy , facing an election this year,
has already pushed through two rounds of spending cuts and tax
increases to protect the budget and has vowed to do more if
necessary. After raising  sales tax  on restaurants, hotels,
public transport and other services, Sarkozy is also pressing
for a more general increase in value-added tax to be balanced by
a cut in payroll levies.  The increases may weigh on  consumer spending  at a time when
joblessness is at the highest level in a decade. The number of
people actively looking for work at the end of November rose by
29,900, or 1.1 percent, to 2,844,800, according to the Labor
Ministry, which publishes December figures later this week.  “The rise in direct taxes will weigh on consumption,”
said  Dominique Barbet , an economist at BNP Paribas in Paris.
“The  unemployment rate  will continue to increase.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  