-- French Presidential Frontrunner Hollande Pledges to Limit Power of Banks
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2012-01-23T10:36:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/french-presidential-frontrunner-hollande-pledges-to-limit-power-of-banks.html
Francois Hollande , the Socialist
Party frontrunner and President Nicolas Sarkozy’s main opponent
in France’s presidential election, promised to combat the
financial sector and restore equality if voted into office May.  “Let me tell you who my rival is. It does not bear a name
or have a face, it’s the finance industry,” Hollande  told  a
crowd of more than 10,000 supporters during his  first campaign
rally  yesterday. “In the past 20 years, the financial industry
has taken control of our societies, of our lives and threatens
our states,” he said in the northern suburbs of Paris.  Exactly 90 days before the first round of voting, 57-year-
old Hollande presented for the first time proposals including a
tax on financial transactions and splitting retail and
investment banks. The lawmaker and former  Socialist Party  chief
said new rules to control the financial sector would be
implemented in the first weeks of his administration.  “His stance against the financial sector is intense, but
realistic because he’s adopted measures that already have been
proposed or existed, like the U.S.  Glass-Steagall Act ,” said
Nicolas Tenzer, the director of CERAP, a political think-tank in
Paris. “This was a nod to the left-wing of his party and also
an electorate that doesn’t want to bow to the financial elite.”  An opinion poll released Jan. 21 showed Hollande with a 14-
point a lead over Sarkozy. The president, who has yet to declare
his intention to run, would lose by 57 percent to 43 percent
against the Socialist challenger if the two faced-off in the
second round of the elections on May 6, according to the BVA
poll. The poll of 974 people was carried out from Jan. 18 to 19
and didn’t provide a margin of error.  May 6  France  hasn’t had a Socialist president since  Francois Mitterrand ’s second term ended in 1995.  The first round of voting will be held on April 22 with the
top two candidates competing in the decisive contest on May 6.
Legislative elections will follow in June.  In advance of a Jan. 26 press conference where he will make
a full presentation of his platform, Hollande yesterday outlined
proposals such as banning stock-options, the regulation of
bonuses and a rule to prevent French banks from operating in  tax
havens . He also called for the creation of a public European
credit-rating company.  “There is no reason for the markets to worry about
yesterday’s speech,” said  Dominique Barbet , an economist at  BNP
Paribas (BNP)  in Paris, said in an interview. On macro-economic
matters, “there’s a quasi-consensus in the centre of the
political spectrum, from Sarkozy to Hollande. The extremes are
different, but they have no chance of gaining power.”  ‘Naïve’  Philippe Mills , the head of Agence France Tresor, the
French debt-management body, said in an interview in  Le Figaro 
that market analysts view see the main candidates as having
“clear commitments” to cut deficits and managing public money.  Finance Minister  Francois Baroin  critized Hollande’s stance
on financial markets. “Saying you are against finance is like
saying ‘I’m against rain and fog,’” he said yesterday on  RTL
radio yesterday . “I don’t know of an economy without banks and
finance. What we have done is impose a certain number of rules.
To say finance is the enemy is naive,” Baroin said.  In his speech Hollande also said he would overhaul the tax
system, create a public bank to support industry, maintain the
35-hour workweek, increase funding for culture and cut the share
of nuclear power in France’s energy supply to 50 percent in 2025
from about 75 percent today.  He pledged to cap ”excessive” prices for fuel, rents and
doctors fees. He said he would initiate a housing program and
hire of 60,000 new school workers.  Afghanistan  Exit  French troops would be pulled out of Afghanistan by 2013,
Hollande said, as mission in the nation was ”finished.”  The salaries of the president and ministers would be cut by
30 percent, he said.  Germany , France’s main partner and  Europe ’s biggest
economy, would be his first destination as a head of state,
Hollande said. He would want to meet  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
and discuss a ”new orientation for Europe,” including the
overhaul of the Dec. 9 European fiscal treaty and the creation
of bonds issued jointly by all members of the euro area, a
measure Merkel has consistently opposed.  Hollande did not say what measures he would take to fight
the economic crisis as France. Europe’s second-largest economy
is probably in recession and about 61,000 job losses are
forecast for the first half by the national statistics office.  The Socialist candidate needs to show he has a plan to
shield France from Europe’s sovereign debt crisis that’s in its
third year, say electors such as Eveline Bureau, a 60-year-old
Parisian grandmother of five.  ‘Economic Blaze’  “We voters want to be sure the next president is fit to
fight this terrible economic crisis,” she said. “We need a
fireman who can put out the economic blaze.”  France’s public debt declined in the third quarter to 85.3
percent of economic output from 86.2 percent in the second
quarter, state statistical institute Insee said on Dec. 28.  Hollande has been reluctant to unveil substantive measures
to counter the crisis, inviting criticism from Sarkozy’s camp.  Sarkozy has said repeatedly that he’s best placed to deal
with the crisis, calling himself a “ captain in the storm .” He
has accused Hollande of failing to have a “credible” solution.  On Jan. 13, Standard & Poor’s cut France’s AAA  credit
rating  in the country’ first-ever downgrade, denting Sarkozy’s
crisis-management credentials.  Hollande, who never cited the name of Sarkozy in his
speech, said his rival had achieved a “mandate of downgrading,
not just of our credit rating, not just of our public finances,
but of our  living standards .”  French Dream  In the hour-and-a-half speech, Hollande featured his
”simplicity” and ”authenticity,” recalled his family
background and his decades of political work in rural France.  As the crowd was cheering him, screaming ”Hollande
President,” the lawmaker and father-of-four, repeated several
times that ”equality” was the pillar of his presidential bid,
citing France’s 1789 revolution and the ”French Dream” of
universal and equal rights.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Connan in Paris at 
 cconnan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  