-- Turkey Calls France Racist, Holds Fire on Genocide Measure
-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 2012-01-24T15:36:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/french-senate-poised-for-genocide-vote-risking-turkish-backlash.html
Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  accused  France ’s parliament of racism for a measure
criminalizing the denial of genocide against Armenians in
Anatolia, while holding back on announcing additional sanctions.  The law, which passed in the French Senate last night and
would make the offense punishable by as much as a year in prison
and a 45,000-euro ($58,518) fine, isn’t legal and Turkey will
ignore it, Erdogan told lawmakers of his governing party at the
parliament in Ankara. About 20 other nations including Russia
and  Canada  recognize the events in Anatolia as genocide.  Erdogan called the French law an “error” that he hoped
wouldn’t be implemented, even as he continued to threaten
sanctions against France,  Turkey ’s seventh-biggest trading
partner with $14.8 billion of goods exchanged last year.
 Nicolas Sarkozy  is using the matter to shore up public support
before elections in May, Erdogan said, appealing to the French
president’s past as he promised Turkey will remain calm.  “The measure that was approved by the National Assembly of
France and then the Senate is downright discrimination, racism
and a very clear massacre of freedom of thought,” Erdogan said
in televised comments today. “This is an effort to convert
votes out of hatred of Turkey.”  Turkey ‘Patient’  Erdogan’s tone contrasts with his response in December,
when Turkey froze political and military relations with France
after the lower chamber backed the measure. The premier had told
Sarkozy then to ask his grandfather about a French genocide
against Algerians. Today, Erdogan said Turkey is “patient” and
will see how the process plays out, while reminding Sarkozy of
his ties to Turkey because his grandfather was an Ottoman Jew
whose ancestors were banished from  Spain  during the Inquisition.  France follows countries such as  Switzerland , which has
arrested and fined at least three Turks who deny genocide
against Armenians. Turkish trade with Switzerland almost doubled
to $6.1 billion last year from 2003, when the country passed its
genocide legislation, according to Turkey’s statistics agency.  “This day will be written in gold, not only in the history
of friendship between the Armenian and French peoples, but also
in the annals of the history of the protection of human rights
worldwide,” Armenian Foreign Minister Eduard Nalbandian said in
a statement.  Armenians say 1.5 million ethnic Armenians were killed from
1915 to 1923 in a deliberate campaign of genocide. Turkey
maintains the deaths occurred as part of clashes in which tens
of thousands of Turks and Armenians died after Armenian groups
sided with a Russian army invading the  Ottoman Empire , Turkey’s
predecessor.  Seeking Signatures  Turkey is working with French lawmakers who opposed the
measure to get 60 signatures and appeal the legislation to the
constitutional court, Erdogan said. The French Senate’s law
committee rejected the bill, saying it was unconstitutional, and
recommended that the body drop it from its agenda. Senators
passed the legislation by a vote of 127-86.  That vote was “inopportune,” French Foreign Minister
 Alain Juppe  said on Canal-Plus television. “Turkey and France
need each other to work together on many issues. I hope reason
wins out over passion,” he said.  Thousands of Turks in Paris protested the measure outside
the Senate, separated by a 200-meter (650-foot) police corridor
from Armenians who backed the law, Turkey’s state-run Anatolia
news agency reported yesterday. Turkish Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu  had lobbied against the bill by summoning executives
of  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  and  Groupama SA (GPAS)  in December.  ‘Wrong Decision’  Turkey temporarily withdrew its ambassador to Paris, Tahsin
Burcuoglu, after the lower house approved the measure. He may be
recalled to Ankara for discussions following last night’s vote,
according to Anatolia. “This is a very wrong decision,” he
said.  Turkey, a North Atlantic Treaty Organization ally of
France, has threatened economic as well as political reprisals
over the law. French carmakers including  Renault SA (RNO)  control a
fifth of Turkey’s market and French banks such as  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) 
have assets in the country exceeding $20 billion. French direct
investment in Turkey between 2002 and 2010 was $4.8 billion, the
Turkish embassy in Paris has said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  