-- U.K. Stocks Climb on Earnings Outlook; RBS, Rockhopper Advance
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-01-23T16:55:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/ftse-100-stocks-climb-on-outlook-for-earnings-cairn-energy-rbs-advance.html
U.K. (SXXP)  stocks rose for the fifth time
in six days amid speculation that current equity valuations
aren’t commensurate with the outlook for earnings and as
investors awaited details from Greek debt-swap talks.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  advanced 2.6 percent.
 Rockhopper Exploration Plc (RKH)  jumped 5.5 percent after the Sunday
Times reported that Anadarko Petroleum Corp. is considering a
takeover of the Falkland Islands explorer.  Thomas Cook Group Plc (TCG) 
declined 5 percent after the Financial Times reported that
travel bookings dropped 33 percent in the first half of January,
compared with the same fortnight last year.  The  FTSE 100 Index  rose 54.01, or 0.9 percent, to 5,782.56
at the close in London. The FTSE-All Share Index also climbed
0.9 percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index was little
changed.  “Based on our assessment of the outlook for global
economic activity, which shows weakness in the euro area being
largely offset by stronger growth in the U.S., we believe the
risks to current 2012 profit forecasts are more evenly balanced
than implied by current valuations,” said Darren Winder, an
equity strategist at Oriel Securities Ltd. in  London .  The FTSE 100 has risen 3.8 percent this year, helping to
recoup some of the 5.6 percent slide in 2011. This extends the
rally from its lowest level last year to 17 percent amid
increasing evidence of a strengthening U.S. economy and
speculation that euro-area leaders are moving to stem the debt
crisis that is curbing growth.  The benchmark gauge is trading at a  price-earnings ratio  of
10.1, based on forecast profits, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. This compares with an average multiple of 11.3 during
the past five years, the data show.  Greek Talks  Bondholders negotiating the Greek debt swap said they’ve
made their “maximum” offer, leaving it to the European Union
and  International Monetary Fund  to decide whether to accept the
deal, said  Charles Dallara , who’s representing private creditors
in the talks.  Dallara, managing director of  Institute of International
Finance , said he’s hopeful the EU and IMF will agree to terms
for private-investor involvement in a rescue of Greece to avert
a default and collapse of the economy. He declined to elaborate
on the terms discussed in talks that resumed Jan. 18 and
remained inconclusive. EU finance ministers will meet today.  A deal was struck in October to implement a 50 percent cut
in the face value of more than 200 billion euros ($258 billion)
of Greek debt by voluntarily exchanging outstanding bonds for
new securities. The accord is key to a second financing package
for  Greece , which faces a 14.5 billion-euro bond payment on
March 20.  RBS, Shell  RBS rose 2.6 percent to 28.14 pence.  BP Plc climbed 2 percent to 476.7 pence and Royal Dutch
Shell Plc rose 2.5 percent to 2,310 pence. Crude  oil prices 
increased after EU diplomats agreed to place an embargo on the
import of Iranian oil with a phase-in period to July 1.  Cable & Wireless Worldwide Plc rallied 34 percent to 23.9
pence.  Rockhopper jumped 5.5 percent to 340.25 pence after the
Sunday Times reported that Anadarko Petroleum Corp. is
considering a takeover of the Falkland Islands explorer.  Gulf Keystone Petroleum Ltd. (GKP)  rose 1.7 percent to 280 pence
after Chief Operating Officer John Gerstenlauer said the
Kurdistan Shaikan-4 may be the best well that it has logged to
date in the region.  Thomas Cook  lost 5 percent to 14.25 pence after the FT
report.  Immunodiagnostic Systems Holdings slumped 18 percent to
291.5 pence after saying it forecasts full-year sales below
analysts’ estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  