-- Futures Volumes Slide as Vote Concerns Mount: Russia Overnight
-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f   a n d   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-01-23T23:19:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/futures-volumes-slide-as-vote-concerns-mount-russia-overnight.html
Russia ’s stock  futures  dropped, with
the value of traded contracts tumbling 41 percent below their
daily average during the fourth quarter of 2011, on concern the
Kremlin’s handling of presidential elections in March will
further stoke anti-government sentiment.  Futures expiring in March on Moscow’s dollar-denominated
RTS index fell 0.6 percent to 151,465 in U.S. trading yesterday.
The value of contracts traded sank to $3.08 billion from a daily
average of $5.23 billion during the fourth quarter, according to
Otkritie Financial Corp. Oil producer  OAO Surgutneftegas (SGTPY)  jumped
to an eight-month high in  New York  as crude rose.  Protesters have taken to the streets of Russian cities
since Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s party retained a
parliamentary majority in Dec. 4 elections observers say were
marred by ballot box fraud. Grigory Yavlinsky, an opposition
presidential candidate, accused Putin yesterday of trying to bar
him from the presidential poll to ensure a first-round victory.
Putin is vying to return to the presidency for a third term
after stepping down because of  term limits  in 2008.  “The uncertainty created by the protests makes people a
little nervous about Russia,” Geoffrey Dennis, a global
emerging-markets strategist at Citigroup Inc., said by phone in
New York yesterday. “We’re not recommending investors chase
Russia at this point because the politics will remain messy.”  The  Bloomberg Russia-US 14 Index  of Russian companies
traded in New York gained 1.1 percent to 100.38 yesterday.
Trading  volume  on the index last week was 23 percent below the
average for the final three months of 2011, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Russia ETF Climbs  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , a U.S.-traded fund that
holds Russian shares, advanced 1.3 percent to $29.30. The fund
has climbed 9.9 percent since the end of 2011. The  RTS
Volatility Index (RTSVX) , which measures expected swings in the index
futures, rose for the first time in six sessions, adding 0.9
percent to 33.41 points.  Daily volumes in RTS futures reached a three-month low on
Jan. 3 as investors pulled back from the market,  Luis Saenz ,
chief executive officer of the U.S. unit of Moscow-based
brokerage Otkritie, said by phone in New York yesterday.
Otkritie manages about 38 percent of futures and options trading
on the RTS, according to Saenz.  “Because of the political cloud over Russia, investors are
trading roughly half the volume that they did last quarter
before the parliamentary elections,” he said. “This is going
to be a major theme until at least the first week of March.”  The presidential election will be held on March 4.  ‘Excluding Me’  The  RTS index  gained 1.7 percent to 1,522.57 yesterday, the
highest since Dec. 5, and the 30-stock, ruble-denominated  Micex (INDEXCF) 
index added 0.5 percent to 1,499.27.  Russia’s Central Elections Commission will conduct a second
check on more than 2 million signatures collected by Yavlinsky
after 23 percent were found to be invalid, an official from the
commission’s press service, who declined to be identified, in
line with policy, said by phone yesterday.  “They’re excluding me from the election because they don’t
want there to be a choice,” Yavlinsky told reporters in Moscow.
“They want to make sure there’s only one round.”  American depositary receipts of  OAO Mechel (MTL) , Russia’s
largest coal producer for steelmakers, led gainers on the
Bloomberg Russia-US 14 Index surging 5.5 percent to $10.99, and
widening the  premium  to its Moscow-traded shares to 46 cents,
the most since Oct. 24.  Mechel (MTLR)   shares  on the Micex rose 0.6 percent to 325 rubles
yesterday, or the equivalent of $10.51. One Mechel ADR
represents one ordinary share.  EU Embargo  Surgutneftegas gained 2.3 percent to $5.70, the highest
price since May 10, after crude rose for the first time in four
days as the European Union agreed to ban oil imports from  Iran 
starting July 1. The oil producer’s  shares  in Moscow added 1.5
percent to 17.97 rubles, the equivalent of 58 cents. One ADR
equals 10 ordinary shares.  Crude for February delivery rose 1.1 percent to settle at
$99.58 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  yesterday.
Brent oil for March settlement increased 0.7 percent to $110.58
a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. Urals
crude, Russia’s chief export blend, gained 0.8 percent to
$109.42.  OAO Gazprom Neft (GZPRY) ,  TNK-BP Holding (TNBP)  and Bashneft are better
buys than their larger Russian competitors because they provide
higher dividends and have better production prospects, Troika
Dialog analysts including Oleg Maximov and Alex Fak wrote in a
report e-mailed yesterday.  Polyus Share Sale  OAO Gazprom Neft (GZPFY) , the oil arm of Russia’s gas export
monopoly OAO Gazprom, fell 1.3 percent to $24.13, after jumping
5.8 percent in New York last week. The Moscow-based company’s
 shares  in Moscow slipped 0.4 percent to 150.05 rubles, or $4.86.
One ADR equals five ordinary shares.  Polyus Gold International Ltd. (PLZLY) , Russia’s largest gold
miner, was the biggest decliner on the Bloomberg Russia-US 14
index, losing 2.2 percent to $3.15, the lowest close since Jan.
11.  The miner -- owned by  Mikhail Prokhorov , a billionaire
political rival to Putin -- has picked  Bank of America Corp. ,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. , VTB Capital and  Renaissance Capital  to
arrange a $1 billion share sale as soon as the first half of
this year, according to two people with knowledge of the plan
who asked not to be identified as the information is private.
The sale was postponed last year.  Yandex Search Share  CTC Media Inc. (CTCM)  jumped 2.8 percent in New York to $9.97,
extending its 2012 advance to 14 percent. The U.S.-listed
Russian television network will reduce expenses this year by
shifting to locally produced series that are as popular with
viewers as the imported shows they replace, said  Anna Lepetukhina , an analyst at Troika Dialog in Moscow, Russia’s
oldest brokerage.  Yandex NV (YNDX) , operator of Russia’s most popular Internet
search engine, slipped 1.6 percent to $18.44, the biggest
decline in a week.  The Hague, the Netherlands-based company’s share of the
Russian search market declined to 59.7 percent in the week
through Jan. 22, from 59.9 percent the previous week,
 Liveintenet.ru , an Internet-service provider and researcher,
reported yesterday.  Yandex’s market share “has been deteriorating since the
beginning of December 2011,” David Ferguson and Anastasia Demidova, Moscow-based analysts at Renaissance, wrote in an e-
mailed report yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net ;
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  