-- GDF Suez Gas Contracts Revised to Boost Link to Spot Prices
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-01-23T18:04:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/gdf-suez-gas-contracts-revised-to-boost-link-to-spot-prices-1-.html
GDF Suez SA (GSZ) ,  Europe ’s largest
utility by market value, said “nearly all” its long-term
natural-gas supply contracts had been amended to strengthen the
link with day-to-day prices and reduce import costs.  Taken together GDF Suez’s long-term contracts are now more
than 25 percent linked to spot natural  gas prices , up from 10
percent in 2010, spokeswoman Sabine Wacquez said by phone today.
The contracts will see a “significant drop” in import costs
and could be further amended for 2013, Wacquez said.  GDF Suez was among five European companies to agree to
revised tariffs with Gazprom,  Russia ’s gas-export monopoly,
which has declined to give details of the accords. GDF’s shares
fell today after Barclays Plc said in a note that the
renegotiated order could hurt next year’s profit and make a
forecast of 20 billion euros ($26 billion) in earnings before
interest, taxation, depreciation and amortization unachievable.  GDF Suez fell 3.6 percent to 20.36 euros, the biggest
decline since Nov. 21. It was the  biggest loser  on  France ’s
SBF120 Index.  The utility’s Ebitda loss next year due to supply costs
could be 550 million euros, mostly on contracts to supply
industrial users both in France and abroad, according to
Barclays.  Chief Executive Officer Gerard Mestrallet declined last
week to provide details about the contract revisions with the
Russians, saying only they were “win-win” for the French
utility and Gazprom.  Lower Costs  The utility is under pressure from the French government to
lower costs. French gas prices, which are set by the government,
won’t rise in the first six months of 2012, Mestrallet said last
week.  GDF was able to raise rates by 4.4 percent on Jan. 1 after
the government was ordered by the country’s highest court to
suspend a yearlong freeze because rates didn’t reflect the cost
of supply. A new formula for calculating regulated rates will
take into account spot-market prices for nearly 30 percent of
supply, Industry Minister Eric Besson said Dec. 13.  President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and the opposition Socialists
have both said they want to limit increases in the cost of
energy for consumers in the lead up to presidential elections in
April and May.  GDF Suez’s biggest suppliers are  Norway , Russia,  Algeria 
and the Netherlands, from which it gets about 59 percent of
long-term contract gas supplies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  