-- GE Courts Turbine Customers for Solar Before Wind ‘Crash’
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2012-01-23T16:31:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/ge-courts-turbine-customers-for-solar-panels-before-wind-crash-.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  is trying to
convince developers that have bought its  wind turbines  to double
down on clean energy by purchasing its solar panels as well,
said Vic Abate, who runs the company’s renewables unit.  Invenergy LLC is planning to install 23 megawatts of GE’s
thin-film solar panels at a site adjacent to a 210-megawatt wind
farm it operates in  Illinois  with GE turbines.  It’s GE’s first solar order from a wind customer and Abate
said he’s pushing the hybrid concept to other turbine buyers.
Offering solar panels may offset an anticipated decline in
turbine sales, he said. U.S. developers have curtailed orders
for 2013 on concern that a federal tax credit for  wind energy 
will expire at the end of this year.  “It wasn’t until of late that costs came down enough for
solar to make sense,” Abate said Jan. 20 in an interview.
“Plugging them in to wind farm locations, you already know the
community, how to get the permits and secure interconnections to
the grid.”  Because winds are strongest at night and solar panels
produce power only during the day, installing both at one
project location will lower costs for both and make forecasting
output more predictable, he said.  “If you control the wind farm and the solar, the concept
of intermittency is more manageable,” Abate said.  ‘Improves Project Efficiency’  OwnEnergy Inc. , a New York-based developer of community
wind farms and a GE turbine customer, has considered adding
solar panels at about a half-dozen wind farms that it’s planning
or has completed, said founder and Chief Executive Officer Jacob
Susman.  “Our best customers are municipal utilities and electric
co-ops where there’s a real focus on reliability,” Susman said
today in an interview. “When you can offer a blended product
that improves project efficiency, they like that.”  GE, whose equipment generates more than a quarter of the
world’s power, is building a solar-panel factory in  Colorado 
that’s expected to be completed by the end of this year, with
the first shipments expected in 2013.  For Invenergy’s project, Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE is
providing panels made from copper-indium-gallium-selenide
produced by Showa Shell Sekiyu KK’s  Solar Frontier (SOLARZ)  unit, which
has a partnership with GE.  GE’s factory will eventually be able to produce as much as
400 megawatts of thin-film solar panels using cadmium telluride,
a technology similar to  First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , the largest maker of
the lighter, thinner panels that compete with silicon-based
photovoltaic gear made mostly in  China .  “If we had just 10 percent of our installed wind capacity
add solar, it would sell out our new factory for the next six
years,” Abate said.  U.S. Wind ‘Crash’  The ability to offer solar equipment as wind incentives
expire, as well as expanding turbine sales outside the U.S., may
help GE weather a domestic downturn.  As much as 9 gigawatts of turbines will be installed in the
U.S. this year, Justin Wu, head of wind analysis at Bloomberg
New Energy Finance in  Hong Kong , estimated in a report. The
market may slump in 2013 after the Production Tax Credit ends,
he said.  “The U.S. wind market will likely crash in 2013,” he
said. “Uncertainty over the Production Tax Credit extension
this year means that little development activity will take
place.” The credit provides 2.2 cents a kilowatt-hour for
electricity generated from wind.  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS) , the world’s biggest maker of wind
turbines, said it will cut 1,600 U.S. jobs if the credit is
allowed to expire. Industry lobbyists are seeking to attach a
four-year extension of the credit to legislation to renew the
payroll tax cut that Congress is considering now.  GE’s U.S. turbine orders slumped the last time the tax
credit for wind expired, at the end of 2003. A lapse next year
will have less impact on the company because new markets in
 Brazil ,  Canada  and  Turkey  will offset declines in domestic
sales, Abate said.  “Less than half our sales were in the U.S. last year,”
Abate said. “We’ve all seen this coming for a couple of years
now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in  New York  at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 