-- Curing Cancer Relies on Genome Mapping With DNA Evidence Guiding Treatment
-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 2012-01-23T19:08:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/genome-map-helps-improve-cancer-treatments.html
Kristal James, a medical technician
in suburban Dallas, spent more than a year fighting rapidly
spreading  breast cancer  that looked like it might take her life.
As doctors raced to save her, they decided to sequence her
tumor’s genome.  The sequencing showed surprising abnormalities in her
diseased tissue’s DNA, confirming that a new drug they were
trying was targeting genetic aberrations in her tumor. James,
33, has since been able to return to attending her son’s
sporting events and school meetings.  “I can be a mommy again,” she said a year later. “It’s a
different life than a year ago. For me, it’s making up for time
I missed.”  A decade after the first draft of the human genome was
published, hospitals and clinics are using DNA sequencing to
generate better treatments and diagnoses for patients with rare
childhood diseases, cancers and other mysterious conditions.
Using new technology that can effectively print out an
individual’s genome -- the instruction manual for making all the
body’s cells -- doctors are examining individual components,
called bases, to slow intractable cancers and treat one-of-a-
kind diseases in children.  “This is going to be transformative to medicine,” said
John Niederhuber, former director of the U.S.  National Cancer
Institute  from 2005-2010, and now executive vice president of
the Inova Health System hospital chain in northern  Virginia .  Genome Sequencing  Doctors gave life-saving treatment to a 6-year-old after an
exploration of his genes in 2009 indicated that a bone-marrow
transplant might stop severe intestinal inflammation. Inova’s
Virginia hospitals are sequencing the genomes of 500 premature
babies and their parents to see what kind of information can be
gleaned for improving care.  A California research center is sequencing the full genomes
of 1,000 healthy people ranging in age from 80 to 108 years old
to determine how to promote disease-free aging. In December, the
U.S.  National Human Genome  Research Institute began funding
projects designed to help doctors learn how to use genomic data
to treat patients.  Using faster, more accurate technologies, doctors are
combing through ever-wider swaths of the human genome to
pinpoint and counteract the causes of disease. Cancer is among
the most promising targets because it is essentially a disease
in which damaged genes let cells grow without restraint, said
Barrett Rollins, chief scientific officer of the Harvard
University-affiliated  Dana Farber Cancer Institute  in  Boston .  Deciphering Genes  Dana Farber now offers every patient who walks through the
door a test for almost 500 gene variations; in about six months,
that program will expand so that patients will have access to
the deciphering of all their genes.  “If you’re working at a cancer center and not thinking
about this, you should be fired,” Rollins said.  While the price of genome sequencing is falling to $1,000
and research money will sometimes pay for these procedures, they
aren’t routinely covered by insurance. Some patients are paying
out of pocket to have their genomes sequenced, and not all of
them can be helped by the procedure because their tumors have so
many genetic abnormalities.  “We have patients who walk in and say ‘I paid $50,000 to
sequence the genome of my cancer,’” Niederhuber said at a
November conference at  Harvard Medical School .  Steve Jobs ’s Genome  Steve Jobs, the late  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  chief executive officer,
spent $100,000 to have his cancer genome sequenced in an effort
to defeat a rare malignancy called neuroendocrine tumor. Jobs
also underwent a  liver transplant  in 2009 to stop the spread of
the disease. He died at the age of 56, eight years after being
diagnosed with cancer.  While gene sequencers around the world churn out millions
of gigabytes of genetic data, most of the human genome remains
unexplored and incomprehensible even to the savviest scientists,
let alone practitioners caring for families. With so much
unknown, sequencing doesn’t hold answers for every patient.  Insurers are still waiting for more information about when
and for whom sequencing the whole genome is an effective
procedure, said Susan Pisano, spokeswoman for  America’s Health
Insurance Plans , a Washington-based industry group.  “Scientific evidence drives coverage,” Pisano said in a
telephone interview. “You want to make sure that it’s an
effective procedure, a safe procedure, and you want to know what
you’re going to do with the results. And these are all questions
that are still being asked.”  Shaping Treatment  For Kristal James, the mom in  Dallas , the procedure helped
shape her cancer treatment. In January, 2010, she took a few
hours off from work to meet with the surgeon scheduled to
perform her mastectomy at  Baylor Plano Medical Center . She’d
already had lumps removed from her breast twice and taken
anticancer drugs. In the waiting room, she chatted with a woman
who had undergone the procedure. The woman said the surgeon,
Lynn Canavan, had a “light touch” that minimized pain.  James felt healthy and confident when her surgeon entered
the office for their appointment. When James’s MRI image came up
on the screen, both of them were seeing it for the first time.
Canavan did a double-take; in just a few weeks, small colonies
in James’s breast had grown as big as 10 centimeters, or about 4
inches.  “What do I do?” James asked the surgeon. “What’s going
to happen?”  “You have to go to your oncologist and give him this,”
Canavan replied.  Feeling Despair  Canavan told James she would probably need another round of
powerful chemotherapy along with radiation treatment and the
mastectomy. It was one of the few times she could recall feeling
despair.  “I couldn’t talk,” James said. “I sat there in stunned
silence and the tears were just running. It felt like we had
moved backwards, and then even further back.”  Her prospects continued to spiral downward. Doctors
discovered tumors in her left breast. She developed swelling in
her side. James’s doctors referred her to Joyce O’Shaughnessy an
oncologist at Baylor University Medical Center in Dallas.  O’Shaughnessy specializes in “triple negative” breast
cancer that doesn’t respond to surgery, drugs and radiation. She
was participating in a national study to see if gene sequencing
could help identify new therapies for the hardest-to-treat
breast cancers.  Tumor DNA  James’s tumor DNA was sent to the Translational Genomics
Research Institute in Phoenix for sequencing on equipment made
by  Life Technologies Corp. (LIFE)  Meanwhile, O’Shaughnessy put James on
an experimental regimen of  Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s Afinitor, a drug
normally used to stop the immune system from rejecting
transplanted organs, as well as treating brain and kidney
cancer. James also took  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s Avastin, which shuts
down blood-vessel formation in tumors, and taxol, a hormone
blocker often used against breast cancer.  Novartis fell 0.9 percent to 51.60 Swiss francs at the
close in Zurich trading. Roche dropped 0.1 percent to 163
francs.  James said she could feel her tumors shrinking. Within a
few weeks she felt that hard cancer tissue was disappearing from
beneath her skin.  In the meantime, the sequencing showed that James’s cancer
turned out to have abnormalities in genes not typically
associated with breast cancer, including one that activates a
cancer-associated protein called mTOR. The drugs were blocking
the growth-stimulating activity of that protein. James’s doctor
explained to her that the precise targeting of the genes in her
tumor, confirmed by sequencing, were aiding her treatment.  ‘Back to Normal’  “When the genome study came back, she explained how DNA is
in every cell in my body,” James recalled. “There was a
deficiency in the tumor, and the drugs countered that deficiency
and brought me back to normal.”  More than a year later, the breast cancer hasn’t returned.
However, James’s doctors found colonies of cancer cells in her
liver, which they are treating with another chemotherapy regimen
that combats her tumor’s inability to repair breaks in DNA. For
her, the fight to find the right treatment for her disease goes
on. Yet the results of her sequencing may help other women get
targeted treatment for their cancers, as more doctors begin
scrutinizing genes early in the disease.  “We’re not all the same,” she said. “Instead of each of
us being a guinea pig, now you can tell me specifically, this is
what we’re going to give Kristal, and this is what we’re going
to give someone else. I think we’re making huge strides.”  The genome is the biological code that tells cells how to
make their own building-block proteins. Thousands of people are
diagnosed annually with illnesses clearly rooted in genes, such
as  Huntington’s disease , muscular dystrophy and Down syndrome.  Some genetic diseases are well understood and treatable if
caught early enough. Other gene variants, like BRCA1 and BRCA2,
raise the risk of breast and ovarian cancer, yet don’t guarantee
that tumors will appear.  Personal Genome Project  To get a better understanding of the link between the
genome and health, I joined the  Personal Genome Project , run by
Harvard University geneticist  George Church . A genetic counselor
took a history of diseases -- most of them relatively common --
that afflict people in my family.  While I waited to see what my genome can reveal about my
future health, I thought about whether I might face a heightened
risk of cancer, a common condition that can sometimes be staved
off with diet, exercise and other health habits. Or was I
destined to develop a rare condition over which I would have no
control, such as  Huntington’s disease ?  (The sequencing results of reporter John Lauerman will be
detailed later in this series.)  Dana Nieder faced a similar lack of control in her search
for answers about her daughter, Maya.  Quest for Understanding  Her quest for understanding began on the day Maya was born,
May 30, 2008. The infant had passed all her prenatal screening
tests, which included Down syndrome and other genetic disorders,
with flying colors. While Maya’s eyes were slightly wide-set and
her ears low, both sometimes signs of genetic disease, doctors
dismissed their concerns when she behaved like a normal newborn.  Nieder quickly discovered Maya was unable to breast-feed,
apparently because of poor control of her tongue. Tests for Down
syndrome came back negative. By June of 2009, when Maya was a
year old, her developmental problems became more visible. The
tests went on and on, yet they failed to shed a ray of light on
Maya’s condition. She became more wary of doctors, who always
wanted one more blood sample or one more scan, Nieder said.  “There’s the guilt of so many blood tests and so many
appointments and so much for a small child,” she said.  Helping Maya  At 3 1/2 years old, Maya has just a few syllables of
speech. She walks jerkily and her muscle tone remains poor.
Nieder left her teaching job to stay at home with Maya and began
a blog in which she describes the joys of raising her daughter
and her frustration with the lack of a diagnosis.  Without a precise condition to point to, Nieder has
struggled to secure services such as feeding therapy for Maya,
who still has difficulty eating. Nieder is shopping for
computerized communication aids that cost as much as $10,000.
Insurers will be reluctant to reimburse those, too, without a
diagnosis, she said.  A reader of Nieder’s blog wrote last year to tell her about
the  Rare Genomics Institute  at  Johns Hopkins University . Set up
in 2010, the institute is aimed at helping parents use the
Internet to raise funds for sequencing that isn’t covered by
insurance. Jimmy Lin, a medical student working toward both his
MD and Ph.D. degrees who leads the group, explained to Nieder
that DNA sequencing could help find the root cause of Maya’s
condition.  Some Concerns  “I wasn’t sure how much thought I wanted to invest in it
at first,” she recalled. “I was concerned about what the
sequencing might show, and who might else have access to the
data.”  Maya’s genetic information would be anonymous and
confidential, Lin said. One night in July, Nieder talked it over
with her husband. They continued to think about whether Maya’s
data would remain private and how it might be used if it fell
into the wrong hands. Before the evening was out, they decided
to proceed. The possibility of helping Maya even in some small
way outweighed the potential dangers, which seemed vague and
distant.  Maya’s evaluation took place Nov. 30 at  Yale University .
Geneticists recommended that she and her parents have all their
protein-making genes deciphered, a process called full exome
sequencing. Sequencing just Maya’s protein-making genes might
answer the questions about her condition and, if that fails, the
full genome could still be scanned.  First on the Block  The most difficult part of the visit to Yale, Nieder
recalled, was the long recap of Maya’s health history and
discussion of sequencing with William Graf, the pediatrician who
took her case.  “He told us that we were doing exactly the right thing,”
Nieder recalls. “He said, ‘I’d do the same thing if I were you.
Everyone will be doing this soon, and you’re just the first
people on the block.’”  To Maya, it was just another in a series of interminable
examinations. Tired of sitting in the small room, Maya burst out
of the examination room and ran around the halls of the clinic.
Nieder and her husband took turns playing with Maya and speaking
with Graf.  At the end of the consultation, clinic workers took blood
samples from each of the Nieders to begin the sequencing. When
the family returned home, Dana went online and posted an appeal
for funding for the sequencing. Within just six hours, she
raised more than the $2,500 needed to pay for the procedure. The
Nieders say they will donate any extra money for other children
who need sequencing.  While the analysis of the family’s DNA is under way at
Yale, Nieder waits. She says she hopes sequencing will at least
put a name to put on her daughter’s condition.  “It’s difficult to be undiagnosed. I worry that when she
turns 5 and goes to school, I’m going to have to fight for
services and therapies if I have nothing to write in the
chart,” Nieder said.  “I’m hopeful about it, I really am.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Lauerman in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jonathan Kaufman  at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net . 