-- Giants Kicker Tynes Turns Previous Night’s Dream Into Super Bowl Trip
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-01-23T06:05:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/giants-kicker-tynes-turns-previous-night-s-dream-into-super-bowl-trip.html
New York kicker  Lawrence Tynes 
didn’t quite follow his dream’s script. The kick he made last
night in overtime had the same impact, though, sending the
Giants to the Super Bowl on a rainy San Francisco evening.  Tynes kicked a 31-yard field goal with 7:06 left in
overtime to give the Giants a 20-17 victory against the 49ers in
the  National Football Conference ’s championship game at
 Candlestick Park .  The night before, Tynes was awakened in his hotel room by a
dream that he had won the game with a 42-yard field goal.  “It was just a dream, a typical kicker dream,” he said in
the Giants’ jubilant locker room. “I was a little more full of
anxiety today, I’m usually not that nervous before a game. I
think a lot of it had to do with conditions. Who knows why I
dreamed last night that I would kick a game winner?”  It wasn’t the first time for Tynes, who sent the Giants to
the  Super Bowl  four years ago with a 47-yard field goal in
overtime against the  Green Bay Packers  at  Lambeau Field .  Last night, Tynes, 33, got his chance when Kyle Williams of
the 49ers fumbled on a punt return and the Giants recovered at
the San Francisco 24-yard line. Three runs by  Ahmad Bradshaw  got
the ball closer to the goal line, setting up the kick that put
the Giants in the Feb. 5 Super Bowl against the  New England
Patriots .  Before the field goal, Tynes spent about 15 minutes behind
the Giants’ bench, kicking over and over into a net. He’d stop
at points to watch the game on a huge stadium screen, but stayed
off the Giants’ sideline.  He quickly retied the laces on his right shoe after the
49ers’ fumble. The right-footed kicker, a nine-year veteran who
has been with the Giants since 2007, walked slowly toward the
sideline as  New York  ran four plays, and checked his cleats for
mud before trotting on for the kick.  “The weather was terrible, the balls were wet, the balls
were full of grass,” he said. “It was tough sledding out
there. The moisture, the footing was tough, the balls were
really slick.”  Sticking to Routine  Tynes kept it simple after reaching the huddle.  “I just have a routine, man, three steps back, two steps
over, keep my head down,” he said. “It’s the same thing
everywhere. I could do it in the parking lot, I do it in my room
all night, it’s just a little different with the people in the
stands.”  After sending the winner through the uprights, Tynes was
engulfed by teammates as he ran around the field screaming for
his wife, Amanda. He found her for a brief celebration, then
returned to his buddies.  “That’s the best part, man, to celebrate with these guys
that are out there busting their butts for 60 minutes,” Tynes
said. “Listen, we play a small fraction of the game, these guys
are out there getting their teeth busted in for 60 minutes, and
the joy I feel I share with them.”  Teammate Victor Cruz, who had 10 catches for 142 yards,
said he felt like a fan while watching Tynes prepare for the
winning kick.  ‘Just Crazy’  “All those years, you see it on TV and you wish you could
be there,” Cruz told reporters. “I was looking at it the whole
way. As soon as he kicked it, I ran on the field and it was just
crazy.”  Tynes said he didn’t expect any more game-winner dreams on
the flight back to New York. He knew it would be a short night,
anyway.  “I’ve got to take the kids to school at 7 a.m., I’m not
sure if I will sleep tonight,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  