-- Gingrich Role at Freddie Questioned by Romney
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n   a n d   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2012-01-23T20:01:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/gingrich-pressured-to-release-freddie-mac-consulting-contracts.html
Republican presidential candidate
Newt Gingrich says his lawyers are blocking him from releasing
his consulting contracts with  Freddie Mac (FMCC) , while he continues to
offer accounts of what he did for the government-backed mortgage
lending institution that differ from those who worked with him.  Gingrich’s advisory role with  Freddie Mac  has become fodder
for his chief rival for the Republican nomination, former
Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney. The Romney campaign said
today it will begin airing a television ad in Florida, site of
the next Republican primary, tying Gingrich’s work to the
state’s troubled housing market.  At a campaign event today in Tampa, Romney said Gingrich
should have seen the housing crisis coming and voters “ought to
be able to see what it is he told” Freddie Mac.  Former Governor  Tim Pawlenty  of  Minnesota  and Florida House
Speaker-designate Will Weatherford said in a Romney-arranged
conference call with reporters today that Gingrich must provide
“transparency” about his work for Freddie Mac.  “We don’t have insight or transparency into what he
actually did,” Pawlenty said. He called Gingrich’s claims that
lawyers are holding up the release of the contracts “B.S.” and
“just nonsense.”  Damaging Ties  Romney’s criticism of Gingrich’s work after leaving
Congress has earned him praise from some political strategists,
who said the ties to Freddie Mac could become more damaging to
the former U.S. House speaker than allegations by his second
wife that he wanted an “open marriage” so he could continue an
affair with a congressional staff member, Callista Bisek, whom
he married in 2000.  “I thought it was smart,”  Karl Rove , a former adviser to
President  George W. Bush , said yesterday on “Fox News Sunday.”
“He took on Gingrich on the question of character, but not on
the question of the marriage, but on the question of, ‘You were
working for Freddie Mac. You were the guy who’s the Washington
insider.’”  J.C. Watts Jr., a Gingrich supporter and a former U.S.
House member from  Oklahoma , said in a conference call with
reporters today that Romney’s attacks are “silly,” as is the
idea that Gingrich was a major player in Freddie Mac discussions
in Washington.  No ‘Hand-to-Hand Combat’  Watts left the House in January 2003 and was chairman for
six years of FM Policy Focus, a group that pushed for increased
regulation of Freddie and its mortgage-lending sister
organization,  Fannie Mae . Watts said that, even though he had
“day-to-day” contact with the people most interested in
Freddie Mac, “ Newt Gingrich  was never on my radar screen.”  “Newt Gingrich was not walking the halls of the House and
the Senate” as a consultant to Freddie, Watts said. “He was
never doing the hand-to-hand combat.”  Former and current Freddie Mac executives told Bloomberg
News that Gingrich was hired to develop an argument on behalf of
the company’s public-private structure that would resonate with
conservatives seeking to dismantle it. He wasn’t asked to
personally deliver that message on  Capitol Hill , they said.  Billions in Bailouts  Many Republicans have criticized Freddie Mac because
billions of dollars in taxpayer money were needed to bail it out
after the housing market meltdown. Since September 2008, Freddie
Mac and Fannie Mae, both now operating under U.S.
conservatorship, have received a total $153 billion in taxpayer
aid.  Gingrich initially said he couldn’t release the two
contracts, which paid him at least $1.6 million, because Freddie
Mac officials wouldn’t let him. When the company subsequently
said he could make them public, he said his former consulting
firm was the impediment. Gingrich’s campaign and the consulting
firm employ the same attorney.  In Romney’s new  Florida  ad, which opens with the word
“foreclosed” being stamped over the  state of Florida , a male
voice says, “While Florida families lost everything in the
housing crisis, Newt Gingrich cashed in. Gingrich was paid over
$1.6 million by the scandal-ridden agency that helped create the
crisis.”  ‘Very Helpful’  This morning, Gingrich told ABC’s “Good Morning America”
that he would be “very comfortable” releasing the contract
before the Jan. 31 Florida primary. “I think it would be very
helpful,” he said. “Our attorneys are talking with the
company.”  He didn’t say which attorneys are involved.  In yesterday’s talk show appearances, Gingrich demurred
when asked if he would release the contracts, which according to
his campaign ended in 2007; others familiar with his contracts
have said they extended to 2008, when the housing market
imploded.  On  CNN , the former House speaker said he had warned that
Freddie Mac’s business model should be reined in and opposed a
government takeover when it failed because of investments in
risky mortgages.  “As the New York Times reported in July of 2008, I went to
the House Republican conference and said, ‘Vote no. Do not give
them any more money. They need to be totally reformed and
totally overhauled,’” he said on CNN’s “State of the Union.”
That story, he said, is “the only public record of any kind
about me talking to the Congress about Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac.”  Housing Relief  That  article , which appeared on July 26, 2008, was about a
broad housing relief bill that included foreclosure aid for
homeowners and other measures, in addition to authorizing a plan
for aiding Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae.  The only reference to Gingrich in the story doesn’t make it
clear whether he based his opposition to the legislation
specifically because of the aid to the government-sponsored
enterprises or because of other parts of the  housing  bill.  “Former Speaker Newt Gingrich spoke at a private party
meeting before the vote,” according to the Times report. He
joined House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, “in
encouraging Republicans to oppose the measure, rallying
lawmakers who remember that it was Mr. Gingrich’s ideas that
prevailed in the halcyon days of the Republican revolution,”
the newspaper reported.  Conflicting Comments  Gingrich’s CNN account also conflicts with comments he made
in an interview posted on the Freddie Mac website in 2007, while
he was being paid about $30,000 a month to help the company
refurbish its image with anti-spending Republican lawmakers and
activists. In that exchange, Gingrich urged some regulatory
revisions while defending the basic structure of Freddie Mac --
and encouraging the government to expand the model to the space
program and other agencies.  The increased pressure on Gingrich to provide more details
about his work for Freddie Mac coincides with his campaign’s new
momentum going into the Florida primary after his victory in
 South Carolina ’s contest on Jan. 21.  Since Gingrich’s relationship with Freddie Mac was raised
in a Nov. 9 debate, he has changed his explanation about why he
won’t release his consulting contracts.  At first, he said he couldn’t make the documents public
because Freddie Mac refused to waive a confidentiality clause.
“I don’t particularly want them to sue us,” he said in a Dec.
30 interview with Bloomberg News.  Company’s Lawyer  In January, Freddie Mac officials said Gingrich was
“welcome” to release the documents. Gingrich then said the
power to make the contract public lay not with him but with his
former company, the  Center for Health Transformation . The
company turned the matter over to its lawyer, Stefan Passantino,
who is also national counsel for the Gingrich campaign.  Passantino said in an e-mail this month that he wouldn’t
let the company release the document. “The risks of any kind of
confidentiality waiver, even if the company tried to limit it to
one client or one document, are too great to be feasible,” he
wrote.  The center is abiding by its decision not to release the
contract, Susan Meyers, a spokeswoman for the company, said in
an e-mail yesterday. Passantino and R.C. Hammond, Gingrich’s
campaign spokesman, didn’t respond to requests for comment.  Gingrich is continuing to say he warned Freddie Mac that
its business model was vulnerable to collapse, even though
company executives say they don’t recall hearing that from him
at the time.  “The only thing ever published by Freddie Mac, I said you
need more regulations,” he said yesterday on NBC’s “Meet the
Press,” referring to an April 24, 2007, “Policy Talk” post on
the Freddie Mac website.  In that item, written as an interview and posted before the
company was overwhelmed by its investments in risky mortgages,
Gingrich was robust in his praise of the business model,
suggesting that  NASA  would have been able to send men to Mars if
it had the same business model as Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae,
known as government-sponsored enterprises.  “While we need to improve the regulation of the GSEs, I
would be very cautious about fundamentally changing their role
or the model itself,” he said at the time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clea Benson in  Washington  at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  