-- GM Faces Task of Rebuilding Volt Image After NHTSA Probe Ends
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-01-23T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/gm-faces-task-of-rebuilding-volt-image-after-nhtsa-probe-ends.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  begins the task
this week of repairing the image of its Chevrolet Volt plug-in
vehicle after federal regulators closed their  investigation  into
a battery fire.  GM Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson and  David Strickland , head of the  National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration , are scheduled to testify Jan. 25 before a panel
of the U.S. House Oversight and Government Reform committee. The
panel is probing the response to a June 6 fire in a Volt three
weeks after the car was crash-tested.  While NHTSA closed its investigation last week and said
electric vehicles are no more prone to fires than other autos,
Detroit-based GM is left to mend the Volt brand’s reputation and
sellers of other electric cars may face additional hurdles in
boosting sales, an auto analyst said yesterday.  “It’s not unlike a story that’s written that says somebody
has committed a murder, and the next day they say, ‘Oh they
didn’t, sorry,’” said Alan Baum, principal of Baum & Associates,
an automobile-industry analysis company in West Bloomfield,
 Michigan , in an interview. “It’s been in the news.”  The agency’s decision to close its investigation “is
consistent with the results of our internal testing and
assessment,”  Greg Martin , a spokesman for GM in Washington, said
on Jan. 20. Martin declined further comment yesterday.  NHTSA started investigating the Volt on Nov. 25, more than
five months after the post-crash fire at its test facility in
 Wisconsin . That fire began after battery coolant leaked in the
simulated rollover crash, government and GM investigators found.  Volt, Leaf  The blaze and subsequent probe overshadowed the first year
of sales for the Volt, a vehicle with batteries and a gasoline
engine, and  Nissan Motor (7201)  Co.’s Leaf, powered only by
electricity. The cars are the first electric vehicles sold for
the mass market after President  Barack Obama  set a goal of
having 1 million electric vehicles on U.S. roads by 2015.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , whose Prius accounts for half of all
hybrid-vehicle sales, will sell a plug-in version this year.  U.S. buyers of electric cars, including the Volt, Leaf and
luxury models such as  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) ’s Roadster, qualify for
a $7,500 federal tax credit intended to defer the extra cost of
the new technology.  Government Bailout  The Treasury Department  owns  32 percent of GM’s stock,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, following a 2009
government bailout of GM and Chrysler Group LLC.  Still, marketing for GM’s other non-electric vehicles will
be more difficult because of the issue with the Volt, Baum said.  “This is a reputation car,” Baum said of GM and the Volt.
“They want people to look at General Motors positively and not
necessarily buy a Volt but buy a Cruze or buy a Malibu. I think
they’ll spend a lot of money to make that case.”  Consumers, citing price and questions about unproven
technology, said they are less likely to be interested in buying
a plug-in vehicle, according to a survey released this month by
market-research firm Pike Research of Boulder,  Colorado .  In a 2009 survey, 48 percent of respondents said they would
be “very” or “extremely” interested in buying a plug-in
vehicle, Pike Research said. In 2010, 44 percent said they were
in those categories, and at the end of December that figure fell
to 40 percent.  GM Largest Seller  GM said last week it sold 9.03 million vehicles worldwide
in 2011, regaining its position as the world’s largest seller of
automobiles. Led by the Chevrolet brand and sales of the compact
Cruze, it reclaimed the title held by Toyota since 2008.  The automaker delivered 7,671 rechargeable Volts in 2011
and 7,997 in the model’s first 13 months of sales, missing its
2011 target of 10,000. Nissan sold 9,674 Leaf all-electric cars
in the U.S. last year. The sales target was 10,000 to 12,000.  GM said Jan. 5 it would provide a fix to the Volts it had
sold to reduce the risk of a post-crash fire.  NHTSA closed its investigation in less than two months,
more quickly than the seven unrelated probes ended in November
and December.  “I think the quick resolution and closure on the issue
means that the whole fire controversy is probably done before it
ever really became an issue to mainstream consumers,” Ed Kim,
an analyst for industry researcher AutoPacific Inc. in Tustin,
 California , said in an e-mail. “GM came up with a fix quickly,
and NHTSA gave the fix its blessing equally quickly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in  Washington  at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Timothy Franklin at 
 tfranklin14@bloomberg.net  