-- Goldman Says U.S. Data May Look Better Than They Are: Economy
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2012-01-23T21:52:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/goldman-sachs-says-u-s-performance-may-appear-better-than-it-is-economy.html
A decline in unemployment and pickup
in manufacturing point to accelerating U.S. growth. Some
economists say the numbers may not be as good as they look.  One reason: the severity of the economy’s plunge in late
2008 and early 2009 after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
collapsed threw a wrench into models used to smooth the data for
seasonal changes, according to analysts at Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. and Nomura Securities International Inc.  The  jobless rate  has dropped 0.4 percentage point over the
past two months, according to the Labor Department, and the
 Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index has climbed more
than three points since the end of August. Signs the world’s
largest economy was strengthening helped propel a 14 percent
gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index in the past eight weeks.  “The impact of the financial crisis does seem to have
affected seasonal factors for several indicators,”  Andrew Tilton , a senior economist at Goldman Sachs, said in a telephone
interview from New York. It “might tend to make things look a
little better in the early winter and look a little worse in the
spring time.”  Most economic data are adjusted for seasonal changes to
facilitate month-to-month comparisons. Without those changes,
for example,  construction  would always pick up in the summer,
when the weather is milder, and decline in the winter.  The adjustment process is unable to distinguish between a
one-time shock, like Lehman’s demise, and a recurring issue that
would need to be smoothed away. For that reason, the mechanism
gives some data a leg up from about September through about
March before turning negative the rest of the year.  The Recession  The economy contracted at an average 7.8 percent annual
pace from October 2008 through March 2009, the worst back-to-
back quarters in the post World War II era. The 18-month
recession ended in June 2009.  The adjustment process “has been knocked out of whack by
the financial crisis,” Ellen Zentner, a senior U.S. economist
at Nomura in  New York , said in a telephone interview. “The
model ends up adjusting for a growth pattern that isn’t there.
The sudden drop-off in economic activity in late 2008 is not a
pattern, it doesn’t happen late every year. It was a one-off
event.”  “Around April the seasonal bias turns and starts working
against the data,” said Zentner, who shared her findings in
research notes issued in December and last week.  Beating Peers  Nomura was the fourth-best employment forecaster for the
two years through December, according to Bloomberg calculations.
Goldman Sachs was No. 1 among forecasters of gross domestic
product during the 12 months through June 2009.  Stocks were little changed today as investors weighed
developments in  Europe ’s efforts to take its debt crisis. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index closed at 1,316 in New York, up less
than 0.1 percent.  French business confidence unexpectedly fell in January to
the lowest in almost two years, providing the latest sign that
Europe’s second-largest economy is mired in a recession, figures
from the statistics office Insee showed today in Paris.  Elsewhere, prices paid by Australian producers decelerated
in the October through December period for a third straight
quarter, boosting scope for the central bank to lower borrowing
costs next month, data from the Bureau of Statistics showed in
Sydney.  Jobless Rate  The U.S. seasonal distortions are most acute for the
jobless rate, according to a report by Tilton issued Jan. 13.
The shift moves the rate by about a tenth of a point per month
on average relative to the adjustment before the crisis, he
said. The influence is most positive from November through
January, Tilton’s research showed.  The overcompensation probably accounts for about 0.2
percentage point of the 0.4-point drop in the jobless rate over
the past two months, according to Zentner’s calculations.  Economists at Goldman Sachs forecast unemployment will
average 8.5 percent this year, unchanged from December’s
reading. Nomura’s estimate is 8.4 percent. Zentner and Tilton
agree that data on GDP aren’t affected by the seasonal issues.  In addition to the  unemployment rate , the other indicators
that show a marked influence include  retail sales , consumer
prices excluding food and fuel costs and the total number of
people on  jobless benefit rolls , Tilton said.  Chris Rupkey  is among those who are more optimistic.  More Optimistic  “Forecasters have moved too far to the other side of the
boat, they’ve gone too pessimistic,” said Rupkey, chief
financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in New
York, who forecasts unemployment will average 8 percent this
year. “The data is surprising to the upside and that leads us
to believe the entire year will surprise the market.”  The ISM’s factory gauge has also been skewed by the
seasonal adjustment issues, according to Tilton’s and Zentner’s
research. Tilton estimates the deviation from the pre-crisis
adjustment averages about 0.35 point a month, and the most
positive influence occurs from September through December.  The  manufacturing index  was at 53.9 last month compared
with 50.6 in August, last year’s low point.  The bias stemming from the financial crisis has been
accompanied this year by warmer and drier weather than usual,
which has also boosted some data, said Tilton.  “The housing-related data probably benefited from the fact
that the weather was relatively nice in December,” said Tilton.  Construction Gain  Single-family  housing starts  rose in December to a 470,000
annual pace from 450,000 the prior month and the highest since
April 2010, the Commerce Department reported last week.  Homebuilders may not be the only industry benefitting.  Profits at  Union Pacific Corp. (UNP) , the biggest U.S. railroad,
topped estimates in the fourth quarter as carloads advanced 3
percent, led by gains in autos and chemicals.  Shipments of chemicals improved as “favorable weather and
strong demand extended the shipping seasons,” John Koraleski,
executive vice president of marketing and sales at Union
Pacific, said on a Jan. 19 conference call.  While the seasonal adjustment may have augmented the
improvement in growth, it does not cast doubt that growth has
strengthened, said Tilton.  “The main driver is the fundamental state of the
economy,” said Tilton. The drop in fuel prices in the second
half of the year and the rebound in confidence from the
“uncertainty shock” caused by the debt-ceiling debate have
played a bigger role in the improvement, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  