-- Google Funds Dissent as Oprah Speaks, Rushdie Sparks Anger
-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d   a n d   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2012-01-24T13:52:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/google-funds-dissent-as-oprah-speaks-rushdie-novel-sparks-anger-in-india.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , which is opposing
censorship around the world, is funding discussions about
dissent as celebrities including  Oprah Winfrey  and  MTV  founder
Tom Freston attend Asia’s largest literary festival.  The five-day DSC Jaipur Literature Festival, in the Indian
city known for its pink monuments and forts, has attracted some
100,000 people, organizers said, the most since it began.
Politicians, bankers, Bollywood actors and students have been
discussing everything from music to gardening.  “The core theme of this festival is freedom of expression,
which is also a core value of Google,” said Paroma Chowdhury, a
spokeswoman for the  company  in the city of Gurgaon. “We don’t
try to influence the choice of panelists, but we obviously
indicated the kinds of themes we would like to support.”  Google is sponsoring six sessions, including three on the
theme of dissent and a panel on the Arab Spring. The company,
owner of the world’s most popular Web search engine, has led
online protests against a U.S. anti-piracy bill.  Along with Facebook Inc., Google is also fighting a lawsuit
in India against a court ruling to remove content deemed
offensive by the government. It filed a challenge in the Delhi
High Court after a judge ordered top executives to be present at
a trial on March 13. The lower court warned that India may
follow  China ’s example of blocking websites that fail to comply
with government requests.  Lost Tourists  The festival’s beginnings were in 2004 when author  William
Dalrymple  tried reading his work in public. He had an audience
of 14 people, five of whom were Japanese tourists who had lost
their way.  “While we have some of the most difficult and complex
authors talking, we also have ‘chick lit,’ people talking about
music, about sex, politics, history,” Dalrymple said in an
interview. “We create a sort of carnival atmosphere in the
evening with music, we put out streamers and bunting.”  Indian-born author  Salman Rushdie  canceled his visit to
this year’s event, saying intelligence sources had said paid
assassins were on their way to Jaipur to “eliminate him.” He
said a day later on his Twitter Inc. account that the police had
lied to him.  Rushdie was supposed to address the festival via video link
today. His talk was prevented at the last minute by the owner of
the 150-year-old  Diggi Palace  hotel, the festival venue.  Violence Threat  “There are a large number of people averse to this video
link inside this property. They have threatened violence,” Ram
Pratap Singh told the crowds that had assembled to listen to
Rushdie. The cancellation was for everyone’s safety, he said.  Rajasthan’s police had told organizers that crowds were
marching to the building intent on violence if Rushdie’s address
went ahead, festival producer Sanjoy Roy said. Calling the drama
of the last three weeks an “idiotic situation” and its climactic
end today a “disgrace,” Roy walked off the stage in tears.  “The idea of freedom of expression is severely under
attack,” said Sri Lankan-born poet Cheran during the earlier
dissent discussion with Prasoon Joshi, the Indian head of McCann
Worldgroup, and three other writers. “The space for dissent is
narrowing all around the world.”  ‘Satanic Verses’  Hari Kunzru  and  other authors  didn’t need Google’s backing
to rebel. They planned to recite parts of Rushdie’s “The
Satanic Verses.”  India , home to the world’s third-largest
Muslim population, has banned the novel that some Muslims find
blasphemous and some complained to the police. Kunzru read two
passages before officers arrived and asked him to stop. The
organizers issued a statement distancing themselves from the
authors.  Winfrey focused on India’s spiritual prowess, amid jabs at
the country’s culture. She also talked about her book club and
election prospects for President  Barack Obama .  “I think the world forgot that we were in the brink of a
depression in our country,” and Obama helped the U.S. avoid the
economic downturn, Winfrey said. “His next four years are going
to be even more successful and it’s a really good thing that he
remains in office.”  Clad in a green Indian kameez, or long shirt, with large
earrings, the media mogul parried the moderator’s questions for
an hour, came with an army of handlers and didn’t take any
audience questions even as crowds jostled to listen to her.  Proulx, Shriver  This year’s lineup also included Annie Proulx, the author
of “Brokeback Mountain,” Ben Okri,  Kiran Nagarkar ,  Lionel
Shriver  and Sri Lanka-born Michael Ondaatje.  DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS) ’s Chief Executive Officer  Piyush Gupta  flew in from  Singapore , joining bankers from  Hong Kong  and
Mumbai. European tourists rubbed shoulders with New Delhi
socialites in the hotel.  Pearson Plc’s Penguin Books India unit head and Sula
Vineyards Chief Executive Officer Rajeev Samant held open-air
soirees where celebrities huddled around coal-fired heaters and
feasted on smoked salmon and devilled egg canapes.  Glenlivet whisky flowed freely at Penguin India’s 25th
anniversary party where bankers discussed  India’s economy , which
expanded at its slowest pace in more than two years in the three
months ended Sept. 30 last year.  “A lot of the global investor community has stepped back”
from India, said Gokul Laroia, managing director and head of
institutional equity for  Asia  at Morgan Stanley. “Not because
they are not interested but because they want to see resolution
on policy issues.”  Corruption Scandals  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s efforts to bolster the
Indian economy have been hampered by corruption scandals,
inflation and the decision last month to stall the easing of
foreign investment rules in multibrand retail.  “Whether the country can engineer sustained growth is a
function of the policy action they take,” said Gupta of DBS.
“The bigger issue is the global economy. India’s fortunes this
year are going to be fairly closely tied to it.”  Most delegates were optimistic about economic growth.  “The whole world is in this recession and growth in India
has declined by a few points,” said MTV’s Freston. “It’s still
better than anywhere else. They do have problems, like
corruption. I’m optimistic about India though. It’s the greatest
show on earth, isn’t it?”  The festival, which started on Jan. 20, is sponsored by
companies including Bank of America Corp.,  Coca Cola Co. (KO)  and
 Tata Steel Ltd. (TAYA)  This year it raised 50 million rupees ($99,349),
up from 4 million rupees last year, said festival producer
Sanjoy K. Roy, managing director of Teamwork Films.  “We aren’t selling anything, we’re not listed,” said
Manhad Narula, a director at DSC Ltd., builder of India’s
largest toll plaza and the main sponsor. “There is a brand
benefit associated with the high profile of attendees.”  The DSC Jaipur Literature Festival at Diggi Palace, Jaipur,
runs though today, Jan. 24. Information:
 http://jaipurliteraturefestival.org/   To contact the reporters on this story:
Ruth David in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net 
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 