-- Falcone Faces New LightSquared Questions After Grassley’s Query
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-01-24T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/grassley-says-falcone-implied-bid-to-soften-lightsquared-probe.html
LightSquared Inc.’s effort to win
support in Washington faces new scrutiny after a U.S. senator
questioned hedge fund billionaire  Philip Falcone  about contacts
with the lawmaker’s staff.  Grassley said yesterday that Falcone, whose Harbinger
Capital Partners hedge fund is LightSquared’s main backer, and a
telecommunications executive implied that they wanted the
lawmaker to “pull punches” in an investigation.  “I won’t be part of that,” Grassley, an Iowa Republican,
said in a letter to Falcone that sought details of Falcone’s
contacts with the executive.  Grassley is reviewing whether authorities improperly
accelerated the Reston, Virginia-based company’s partial
approval last year. LightSquared’s plans to bring high-speed
data service to as many as 260 million people need clearance
from U.S. officials, who are weighing test results showing
interference with the global-positioning system.  Falcone said in an October e-mail that LightSquared could
be made “a win” for Grassley, the senator said in his letter.
The executive, Todd Ruelle, said in a Jan. 6 telephone
conversation with a member of the senator’s staff that a call
center might be placed in  Iowa  if the service wins U.S.
approval, Grassley wrote.  Grassley asked Falcone for details of any contacts with
Ruelle and whether the man “has any contractual relationship”
with LightSquared, Harbinger or Falcone, according to the
letter.  Ruelle hasn’t worked for LightSquared, Harbinger or Falcone
“as an employee or a consultant,” Lew Phelps, a Harbinger
spokesman, said in an e-mail yesterday.  Terry Neal , a
LightSquared spokesman, referred questions to Phelps.  GPS Makers Object  Ruelle isn’t registered as a lobbyist for the company,
according to Senate records. He didn’t return telephone calls
yesterday seeking comment.  LightSquared’s prospects hinge on overcoming objections
filed to U.S. regulators by makers and users of GPS devices.  GPS makers say LightSquared inappropriately plans to send
powerful data signals on airwaves reserved mainly for faint
emissions from satellites. They say LightSquared would disrupt
navigation by aircraft, boats, tractors and cars. U.S. officials
said last month the service interferes with a safety system that
keeps planes from crashing into mountains and buildings.  LightSquared has said GPS manufacturers should have planned
to accommodate the company’s use of the airwaves, and that
technical solutions exist to resolve interference.  Lobbying Spending  The argument has sparked heightened spending by both sides.
LightSquared more than tripled its lobbying expenditures last
year to $2.55 million from $695,000 the previous year, according
to U.S. Senate filings. The figures include spending to try to
influence Congress as well as the federal agencies reviewing
LightSquared’s proposal.  Lobbying spending by  Trimble Navigation Ltd. (TRMB) , a maker of
GPS gear that opposes LightSquared’s plan, rose to $1.49 million
from $440,000, according to Senate filings. Lea Ann McNabb, a
spokeswoman for Sunnyvale, California-based Trimble, didn’t
return a telephone call seeking comment.  The Federal Communications Commission’s preliminary
approval in January 2011 attracted Grassley’s attention. The
senator has demanded copies of correspondence between FCC
Chairman  Julius Genachowski  and Falcone, and has said he will
block two nominees to the FCC until he gets the information.
Separately, he has queried LightSquared, Harbinger and GPS
companies about their contacts with the FCC and President Barack Obama’s White House.  ‘Pieces Missing’  The record provided by Grassley doesn’t show wrongdoing,
 Melanie Sloan , a former prosecutor and executive director of the
Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in  Washington , said in an
interview.  “There’s a lot of pieces missing,” Sloan said. “I can
understand why Grassley’s troubled. It’s fair to ask
questions.”  The vague offer of a call center “clearly calls for an
explanation,” said Sloan, whose Washington-based group works to
promote ethics in government. “It’s not a smoking gun that Phil
Falcone has tried to bribe Senator Grassley.”  Questions include the nature of Ruelle’s relationship with
Falcone, Sloan said. “It is not OK to exchange the potential
for offering a call center in return for going easy on an
investigation,” Sloan said.  Phelps, the Harbinger spokesman, said that if the
conversation occurred, “Mr. Ruelle was acting entirely on his
own.”  No Discussions  “No one at Harbinger or LightSquared has had any
discussions or negotiations with Mr. Ruelle with respect to
approaching or contacting  Senator Grassley ’s office regarding an
alleged quid pro quo, or a call center in Iowa, which in any
event would be inconsistent with the LightSquared wholesale
business model,” Phelps said.  Grassley called Ruelle’s statement an “unseemly invitation
to discuss a quid pro quo,” and Grassley’s staff was advised by
the Senate ethics committee to avoid further contact with him,
according to the senator’s letter.  Ruelle in a Jan. 6 e-mail to Grassley’s staff said,
“conduct the investigation. You should,” according to a copy
released by the senator yesterday.  Falcone in an Oct. 6 e-mail told a Grassley staffer that
“the last thing I want to do is to make this more political
than it already is,” according to material released by the
senator.  “However, since we are already there, I believe I can make
this into a win for the senator,” Falcone wrote, according to
the copy released by Grassley. LightSquared could provide
service throughout Iowa, and during emergencies such as
tornadoes and floods, Falcone said in the e-mail.  Falcone Investment  Ruelle is listed as chief executive officer of Fine Point
Technologies on the New York-based company’s  website . Closely
held Fine Point develops software for network operators,
according to the website.  Ruelle held executive positions with MCI Inc. and was chief
executive officer of Sonic Telecom, according to the website.
Sonic Telecom Ltd., a company that transmitted video, was bought
by PanAmSat Corp. in 2003.  Falcone has backed LightSquared with $3 billion. The
service may be running short of money, Jonathan Atkin, a San
Francisco-based analyst with  RBC Capital Markets , said in an
interview Jan. 13. Neal on Jan. 18 said LightSquared has
“enough money to last us several quarters.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  