-- Green Bond Bankers in Japan, Sweden Beat U.S. to $7 Billion
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-01-24T16:03:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/green-bond-underwriters-from-japan-to-sweden-top-u-s-in-7-billion-market.html
Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB (SEBA)  and
 Daiwa Securities Group Inc. (8601)  have underwritten the most green
bonds since the securities were first issued in 2007, indicating
the dominance of Swedish and Japanese banks in the market.  Five of the 10 top underwriters on about $7 billion of the
bonds issued by international finance institutions were drawn
from the two countries, according to a ranking by Bloomberg New
Energy Finance released today. London-based HSBC Bank Plc and
 JPMorgan Chase (JPM)  & Co. of  New York  took third and fourth place.  The findings reflect government incentives pushing
investment for environmental projects in Scandinavia and  Japan 
and the credit crunch across the U.S. and  Europe  that restrained
banks’ appetite there for taking on additional risk.  “Sweden’s prominence in green bonds is not surprising as
the nation has always encouraged environmental investments,”
Sweden’s minister for information technology and energy Anna- Karin Hatt said today in an e-mail. “This is a good example of
markets taking responsibility and responding on current
issues.”  Scandinavian countries “have always been very tuned into
environmental themes,” James Cameron, executive vice chairman
of the U.K. investment manager Climate Change Capital Ltd., said
in an interview. “There’s something about the culture that
recognizes the value of conservation in economic terms.”  Japan “historically has been more culturally aware about
socially responsible investment products,” said Chris Jones,
global head of medium-term notes and local currency syndicate at
 HSBC (HSBA)  Holdings Plc.  Leading Issuers  The bonds are generally issued by the leading development
banks to fund clean air, water and energy projects that help
fight climate change and people affected by it. The World Bank
has issued $3.3 billion of the green bonds followed by $1.8
billion from the European Investment Bank after the two
institutions developed green bonds. The  Asian Development Bank 
was third with $897 million.  Green bonds are attractive to investors because their
yields are roughly double the rate that U.S. Treasury notes pay
and have the same top-notch  credit rating , California State
Treasurer Bill Lockyer said.  “It’s very safe,” said Lockyer, who bought $400 million
of  World Bank  green bonds in December, a deal that SEB managed.
“It accelerates the conversion to a non-carbon economy and it
makes money.”  ‘Green’ Theme  Demand for green bonds may rise in the coming years
provided rules helping define the “green” theme for investors
are established, according to Joseph Salvatore, the analyst at
New Energy Finance who compiled the data. The Climate Bond
Standard from the Climate Bond Initiative is one response to the
need for unified definitions, he said today by e-mail.  SEB, based in Stockholm, underwrote $1.9 billion of bonds
and Daiwa of  Tokyo  about $1.2 billion, according to New Energy
Finance.   Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  was sixth with $327.5 million of deals.
 Mizuho (8411)  International Plc and Nomura International Plc, both
wings of Tokyo-based institutions, ranked seventh and eighth
respectively.  The Swedish and Japanese banks combined accounted for $4.03
billion of green bond offerings, almost twice the $2.6 billion
underwritten by the British, American banks and TD Securities, a
unit of the  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  rounding out the top 10, New
Energy Finance said.  Sweden and Japan both were among the first to design
securities tailored to suit projects related to the environment
and renewable energy.  New Technologies  Sweden has a long-established Green Party and political
consensus on clean energy as well as the need to promote new
technologies. The Green Party, founded in 1981, is Sweden’s
third-largest parliamentary party and the second-biggest party
in opposition.  “The government policies are a framework,” Borg said by
phone. “There is no direct involvement in the green  bond
market . It is market- and demand-driven.”  SEB and the World Bank crafted the idea for a World Bank
green bond in 2007, said Christopher Flensborg, head of
sustainable products and product development at the Swedish
bank. The first “green” bond was announced in May 2007 by the
European Investment Bank. The World Bank followed in September.  “We had Swedish clients who wanted to integrate climate
awareness into mainstream products and we had a lack of
government supply,” Flensborg said. The first World Bank green
bonds were issued in November 2008 for 2.33 billion kroner ($332
million).  Uridashi Bonds  In Japan, regulators in 1994 approved a category of bonds
known as uridashi, which group the debts of overseas entities
into securities to be sold to retail investors. That established
a way for banks to channel green bonds into the hands of
interested investors, Flensborg said.  “Uridashi bonds are issued in local currencies and so
there is a yield-play to Japanese bonds,” said Chris McKnett,
head of environment, social and governance investing at  State
Street (STT)  Global Advisors, the asset management business of State
Street Corp. “Given the low-rate environment in Japan, there’s
a hunger for yield and that plays into that objective.”  Those structures emboldened Nikko, Nomura and Daiwa to line
up green bond sales in Japan.  Nikko Asset Management Europe Ltd. invests in World Bank
green bonds. “We have about $800 million in the two funds we
currently manage,” said Stuart Kinnersley, chief investment
officer.  ‘Social Impact’ Bonds  Daiwa Securities, Japan’s second-largest securities firm,
has arranged $4 billion in bonds with “social impact”
including vaccines and poverty reduction as well as climate
change in the last three years, according to Satoru Yamamoto, a
director and head of planning in the product planning department
at Daiwa Securities Co. Ltd.  “Our rational for concentrating on this product is the
differentiation strategy,” Yamamoto said. “It’s a way to reach
a new customer base.”  Depositors showed willingness to contribute to society
through investments and since then Daiwa arranged a series of
fixed income products, according to Yamamoto.  Nomura (8604)  distributed green bonds from the International
Finance Corp., in the form of uridashi bonds targeting Japanese
retail clients, with proceeds going to renewable energy,
efficiency and climate projects in developing countries, said
Akihiro Igarashi, a syndicate official at Nomura Holdings Inc.  JPMorgan and Bank of America Merrill Lynch are the only
U.S. banks in the top 10, ranking fourth and ninth, reflecting a
lack of new government initiatives supporting renewable energy.  Governments in Britain,  France ,  Germany  and  Spain  have
scaled back incentives for the solar power industry. In the
U.S., one incentive for wind developers expired last month and
another is due to finish at the end of 2012.  The following is a table showing the top institutions
issuing green bonds and the top banks underwriting those bonds,
according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance data.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  