-- ICE Canada Wheat-Market Bid Slowed by Grower Fight With Harper on Monopoly
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2012-01-23T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/ice-canada-wheat-market-bid-slowed-by-grower-fight-with-harper-on-monopoly.html
IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s bid
to profit from  Canada ’s first open markets for wheat and barley
in seven decades may be hindered as some farmers seek to retain
a monopoly on grain sales.  Contracts for milling wheat, durum and barley are set to
start trading today in Winnipeg, competing with U.S. grain
markets, as Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s Conservative
government prepares to end the Canadian Wheat Board’s control
over most crop sales. Canada is the world’s fourth-largest wheat
exporter, with revenue of C$5.8 billion ($5.7 billion) from
 wheat  and barley last year in the main growing regions.  Eight of the Wheat Board’s former farmer-directors,  ousted 
Dec. 15, filed a lawsuit in Winnipeg asking a judge to block the
federal government’s plan to end the monopoly on Aug. 1. Until 
the court case is resolved, trading in the new  ICE (ICE)  contracts may
not amount to much, said Jamie Wilton, a senior commodity futures
specialist for brokerage ScotiaMcLeod in Winnipeg.  Commercial buyers “will start trading the contracts very
lightly to begin with, until we can put this court battle behind
us,” Wilton said by telephone. “Everybody is just hesitant to
do too much of anything right now until this dies down.”  Winnipeg’s Court of Queen’s Bench, which heard the case
Jan. 17 and Jan. 18, may release its decision this week, said
Bill Toews, a farmer from Kane, Manitoba, and one of the former
Wheat Board directors who are plaintiffs in the case. The group
also filed a federal court motion last week asking a judge to
quash a government appeal to a Dec. 7 ruling, which said the
 Agriculture Ministry  should have conducted a vote among farmers
before eliminating the monopoly in a law passed last month.  Implement Law  Agriculture Minister Gerry Ritz has said that the
government will implement the legislation regardless of whether
the court grants an injunction against it, and that the ministry
wasn’t required to conduct a farmer plebiscite. The Wheat Board
carried out its own vote in August, in which 62 percent of wheat
farmers and 51 percent of barley growers voted to retain the
monopoly.  “It’s disappointing that misguided legal action against
Western Canadian farmers has caused some uncertainty in the
industry,” Ritz said in an e-mailed statement in response to
Bloomberg questions. “What farmers and the industry can be
certain about is that the Marketing Freedom for Grain Farmers
Act is now law, and our government will not stop defending their
right to freely market their wheat and barley beginning Aug.
1.”  Competing Markets  ICE’s new contracts, priced in Canadian dollars and
measured in metric tons, may compete with spring-wheat contracts
on the  Minneapolis  Grain Exchange traded in U.S. dollars by the
bushel. Spring varieties, planted starting in April and
harvested beginning in August, make up the majority of wheat
grown in Canada. MGEX said Jan. 19 that it is removing by
September a provision in its spring-wheat futures contracts that
requires delivery of only U.S. grain.  “There’s room for both markets,” Helen Pound, a senior
commodity analyst at Penson Futures in Minneapolis, said in a
telephone interview. “If you add the volume grown in Canada to
the U.S. spring-wheat crop, it becomes a bigger crop than the
U.S. hard, red winter crop. So, there’s potential for a large
amount of volume.”  Wheat trading has surged in  North America . More than 2
million spring-wheat contracts changed hands in Minneapolis
during the year through Aug. 31, a record, exchange data show.
The Kansas City Board of Trade reached an all-time high of 6.582
million hard, red winter wheat contracts last year.  Prices Down  Prices on the Chicago Board of Trade, home to the world’s
most-traded wheat contract, are down 25 percent in the past
year, mostly because of rising global production as farmers
harvested bigger crops in  Australia ,  India ,  Russia  and Ukraine.  The Winnipeg Grain Exchange, owned by Atlanta-based ICE
since 2007, traded wheat futures from 1904 until 1943, when the
Wheat Board’s monopoly began. The exchange traded some feed-
grade wheat from 1974 to 2008, according to spokesman Lee
Underwood, who declined to comment on how the lawsuit will
affect the new contracts. ICE Futures Canada also currently
trades feed-grade barley and canola.  Rolf Penner, a third-generation farmer who has about 1,900
acres in Morris, Manitoba, said he hasn’t sold any of his wheat
for delivery after Aug. 1, because buyers seem reluctant to
boost bids. Penner, who was in favor of ending the monopoly,
said he expects prices paid to farmers will rebound after the
court cases are resolved.  Withholding Sales  “I’ve got some offers, but I’m looking for some price
targets which we haven’t quite hit yet,” Penner said. Grain
buyers may be “pricing in some extra protection on their prices
right now, just in case this thing goes the other way. There is
a risk with this legal wrangling that’s going on, but once that
gets settled, we’ll see that risk go away, and I think we’ll see
prices be a little more competitive.”  In 2007, the government attempted to remove barley from the
Wheat Board’s monopoly, after 62 percent of farmers in a
plebiscite in western provinces voted in favor of opening the
market. A federal court ruling later struck down the
government’s plan because changes to the Wheat Board weren’t
first approved by Parliament.  Toews, the former Wheat Board director, said the government
should delay implementation of the law until the courts decide.
Merchant Law Group LLC, a Regina, Saskatchewan-based law firm,
has said it is starting a national class-action  lawsuit  against
the government over Canadian Wheat Board assets. The former
directors are not planning a class-action lawsuit “at this
time,” Toews said.  ‘Minister’s Lap’  In the markets, “this uncertainty was created by the
Minister himself,” Toews said in a telephone interview. “That,
in our opinion, is where the uncertainty lies, in the Minister’s
lap.”  The Wheat Board’s monopoly covered the provinces of
Manitoba,  Alberta , Saskatchewan and part of British Columbia,
and required farmers in that area to sell all wheat and barley
for human consumption to the Board. The region produced about
22.739 million metric tons of wheat in the year ended July 31,
about 90 percent of the nation’s total supply.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  