-- Energy Turbines May Be Spinning in New York’s East River by 2013
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-01-24T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/tidal-energy-project-in-new-york-s-east-river-wins-license.html
The currents of  New York City ’s  East
River  may soon be harnessed to produce electricity that can be
sold to  Consolidated Edison Inc. (ED)  or the New York Power
Authority.  The U.S. Federal Energy Regulatory Commission yesterday
awarded closely held Verdant Power Inc. of New York the agency’s
first license for a tidal-energy project, which will generate
power from turbines to be installed on the river’s floor.  Verdant , which develops marine clean-energy technologies,
plans to use the 10-year contract to “demonstrate the
commercial viability” of the Roosevelt Island Tidal Energy
Project, Trey Taylor, the company’s co-founder and president,
said in a phone interview.  The 1,050-kilowatt project will use the river’s tidal flow
without dams to produce electricity and has been under
development since 2002, according to Verdant’s website. It’s
designed to provide power to more than 9,500 residents on an
island between the boroughs of Manhattan and Queens as the
city’s population expands by almost a million by 2030, Mayor
 Michael Bloomberg  said when the project was inaugurated in 2007.
The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg LP, parent
of Bloomberg News.  The license “is a major step in the effort to help our
country meet our renewable-energy goals,” FERC Chairman Jon Wellinghoff said in a statement. It allows “for exploration of
new renewable technologies while protecting the environment,”
he said.  Pilot License  Verdant received FERC’s first license for a tidal project,
which will be a pilot license, Celeste Miller, a spokeswoman,
said in an e-mail.  Pilot licenses give developers an opportunity to test
hydro-energy projects, letting them determine potential
environmental effects. FERC started the process in 2008, and
eligible projects must be removable and located in areas that
aren’t environmentally sensitive, according to the statement.  The project will be built in stages, with five turbines in
place by the fourth quarter of 2013, Taylor said. A total of 30
generators will be installed by 2015, he said.  Verdant plans to use the pilot period to demonstrate the
technology and to study the environmental impact on fish and the
river’s sediment, according to Taylor. Power produced by the
turbines eventually may be sold at wholesale rates to
Consolidated Edison or to the  New York  Power Authority, he said.  The Roosevelt Island project isn’t subject to further
regulatory review, Taylor said. If the process is successful,
Verdant plans to apply for a commercial license, which may be
for longer than 10 years, he said.  FERC has issued 100 preliminary permits to study potential
hydro-energy projects that use water’s natural flow to produce
electricity, the agency said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  