-- Mild Weather May Mean Less Energy for Heating, Forecasts Say
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-01-23T13:55:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/mild-weather-may-mean-less-energy-for-heating-forecasts-say.html
U.S. energy demand for heating is
expected to be lower than normal this week because of mild
weather, forecasters said.  The heating degree days value for the week may be 144, or
62 below normal and 72 lower than last year, according to the
 U.S. Climate Prediction Center’s  weekly forecast.  The values are calculated by subtracting the daily average
temperature from a base of 65 degrees to show energy demand.
Higher values mean cooler weather and more energy being used to
heat homes and businesses.  Traders use long-range weather predictions to gauge energy
use and demand for heating and cooling.  The Northeast and Ohio Valley may use 20 percent less
energy than normal to heat homes and businesses this week,
according to  David Salmon , a meteorologist with Weather
Derivatives in Belton, Missouri.  Temperatures may be 6 to 10 degrees Fahrenheit (3.3 to 5.6
Celsius) above normal across much of the Northeast and central
U.S., he said.  In his 1- to 5-day forecast, Commodity Weather Group LLC
President  Matt Rogers  predicted temperatures in the eastern U.S.
and  Canada  will range 5 to 8 degrees above normal.  Temperatures along the East Coast may rise to as much as 8
to 14 degrees above normal, according to MDA EarthSat Weather’s
forecast for the same time period.  New England Outlook  Natural-gas weighted heating degree days, which reflect use
of that fuel, are expected to total 202 for New England, or 73
below normal and 138 below last year, said the climate center in
 Camp Springs ,  Maryland .  In the mid-Atlantic region, which includes  New York , the
gas-weighted degree days value is expected to be 195, or 68
below normal and 106 lower than last year, the center said.  More seasonal weather may spread across the eastern U.S.
starting this weekend, while the Rocky Mountains and Great
Plains experience above-normal temperatures, said Rogers, based
in Bethesda, Maryland.  In its 6- to 10-day forecast, MDA also predicted more
seasonal weather across most of the eastern U.S. with the
exception of northern Maine, which may be warmer than normal.  MDA expects the Pacific Northwest to be cooler than normal
in the same Jan. 28 to Feb. 1 time period.  Salmon’s 6- to 10-day forecast calls for  New England , the
Pacific Northwest and western Great Lakes regions to be cooler
than normal.  The normal average temperature in New York on Jan. 27 is
32.5, according to MDA in Gaithersburg, Maryland. In Boston it’s
29; in  Chicago , 24; Atlanta, 44; Houston, 54; Seattle, 43; and
Burbank,  California , 55.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  