-- India Growth Outlook Weakens Even as Inflation Remains ‘High,’ RBI Says
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2012-01-23T18:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/india-growth-outlook-weakens-even-as-inflation-remains-high-rbi-says.html
India ’s economic growth is weakening
more than anticipated and inflation remains “high” as the
rupee’s fall threatens to stoke price pressures, the central
bank said, signaling it may leave  interest rates  unchanged.  “The growth slowdown, high inflation and currency
pressures, complicate policy choices,” the Reserve Bank of India
said in a  report  yesterday before its rate decision in Mumbai.
The “critical factors” ahead will be “core inflation and
 exchange rate  pass-through,” it said, adding that keeping the
“liquidity deficit” in acceptable limits is also a priority.  India faces slower expansion as the global recovery falters
and inflation which at 7.47 percent is the fastest among the so-
called BRIC nations.  Brazil ,  Russia  and  China , the group’s other
members, have cut rates or lowered reserve requirements for
lenders in recent weeks as they strive to shield growth from the
impact of  Europe ’s debt crisis.  “The RBI is faced with a complex job of curbing inflation
and at the same time protecting growth,” said  Madan Sabnavis ,
chief economist at Mumbai-based CARE Ratings. “The prudent
action at this juncture will be to keep rates on hold.”  The rupee,  Asia ’s worst-performing currency in 2011 with a
16 percent slide, climbed 0.5 percent to 50.0825 per dollar at
the close in Mumbai yesterday. The BSE India Sensitive Index
rose 0.1 percent.  The  Reserve Bank  will keep its repurchase rate at 8.5
percent today for a second month, all 21 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey said. It is due to release its monetary-
policy announcement at 11 a.m.  Cash Reserve Ratio  Five respondents predicted it will cut the cash reserve
ratio to alleviate a shortage of funds in the economy. The
central bank has added 718.8 billion rupees ($14.4 billion) into
the banking system since the start of November by purchasing
government securities from lenders.  “Growth in India is moderating more than was expected
earlier,” the central bank said. “While in the short run,
moderating inflation will provide some space for monetary policy
to address growth concerns” that will be “temporary respite”
at best unless supply bottlenecks are tackled, it said.  India’s wholesale-price  inflation  slowed to a two-year low
of 7.47 percent in December. By comparison, consumer prices rose
6.5 percent in Brazil, 6.1 percent in Russia and 4.1 percent in
China last month.  The moderation in inflation is “likely to persist” in the
three months through March, the central bank said in the report.  At the same time, it said “price pressures remain.” Risks
stem from “suppressed domestic energy prices, the incomplete
pass-through of rupee depreciation and slippage in fiscal
deficit,” it said.  Maruti Price Rises  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) , maker of half the cars sold in
India, has raised prices of all its models this month, citing
higher raw material costs and the decline in the currency.  The Reserve Bank raised borrowing costs by a record 375
basis points in 13 moves from mid-March 2010 before pausing in
December.  India’s economy may expand 7 percent in the fiscal year
through March 31, according to a survey compiled by the central
bank of forecasts from agencies including the  International
Monetary Fund  and the Asian Development Bank, yesterday’s report
showed. October’s survey projected growth of 7.6 percent.  Inflation may average 8.8 percent in the period, the survey
said, the same as the previous estimate.  Indian expansion is set to be “below potential” in the
current fiscal year before recovering at a “modest pace,” the
Reserve Bank said. Lower external and investment demand has
affected growth, it said.  “While headline inflation has eased, price pressures as
reflected in demand-side inflation still persist in the economy,
thus the RBI is unlikely to cut rates before April,”  Arun
Singh , a Mumbai-based senior economist at Dun & Bradstreet
Information Services India Pvt., said before the report.  Prime Minister Manmohan Singh is under pressure to bolster
the economy following street protests against price increases,
corruption allegations and the struggle to attract more foreign
investment. His government faces regional elections starting
this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brendan Murray at 
 brmurray@bloomberg.net  