-- InterDigital Falls After Ending Review Without Finding Buyer
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-01-24T21:42:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/interdigital-plunges-after-ending-review-without-selling-itself.html
InterDigital Inc (IDCC) ., the owner of
wireless-technology patents that tried to find a buyer for
itself, tumbled in early trading after concluding its strategic
review without clinching a sale.  “Following a comprehensive process, the board determined
that it was in the best interests of the company and its
shareholders to execute on the company’s business plan and to
expand the plan to include patent sales and licensing
partnerships,”  King of Prussia , Pennsylvania-based InterDigital
said yesterday in a statement.  The shares plummeted 19 percent to $35.89 at the close in
 New York .  InterDigital had said in July that it hired  Evercore
Partners Inc. (EVR)  and  Barclays (BARC)  Capital to explore a possible sale of
the company, seeking to capitalize on a boom in demand for
patent portfolios. InterDigital’s patents cover technology used
to transfer information wirelessly.  The company is capable of achieving annual revenue of $800
million in three to five years, InterDigital Chief Executive
Officer William Merritt said in the statement.  “We have a strong and largely unlicensed mobile
infrastructure patent portfolio that we believe could generate
significant third-party interest in terms of a sale or licensing
partnership,” Merritt said.  The New York Times first reported the end of the review
yesterday.  Patent Hoard  InterDigital said it had over 19,500 patents and patent
applications at the end of 2011.  A group led by Apple Inc. and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  agreed last
year to buy  Nortel Networks Corp (NT) .’s patent portfolio for $4.5
billion. InterDigital has said its intellectual property is more
valuable than the patents auctioned off by Nortel.  In a separate statement yesterday, InterDigital said it
expects to report fourth-quarter sales of $74.2 million,
according to preliminary results. That number is below the $74.5
million analysts had  predicted , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The company expects profit of $21 million, or 46
cents a share. Analysts had predicted profit of $18.2 million,
or 37 cents a share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas Macmillan in New York at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  