-- Investors Look for ‘Active’ Commodity Exposure, Hermes BPK Says
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2012-01-23T13:53:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/investors-look-for-active-commodity-exposure-hermes-bpk-says.html
Investors probably will maintain
their exposure to commodities, while they may seek more
“active” strategies, according to Hermes BPK Partners LLP, a
$2.3 billion advisory and fund of hedge funds manager.  The following are comments from Matteo Dante Perruccio,
chief executive officer of Hermes BPK, which is owned by the BT
Pension Scheme. He spoke by phone today in  London  following the
company’s introduction of its $275 million Alpha Vault managed
futures account, which invests in five Commodity Trading
Advisors.  “What we are seeing in some cases is the direct exposure
to commodities through ETFs and indexes etc. is being converted
into actively-managed alternative approaches,” he said,
referring to exchange-traded funds.  “There is clearly some correlation between CTAs and the
commodity markets, and the Hermes BPK Alpha Vault solution is a
complementary solution not a substitute,” he said. “You will
find that investors will maintain their level of exposure to
commodities at current levels, but it may be a slightly more
diversified approach to getting that exposure.”  “Investors believe that at some point markets are going to
break out either in one direction or the other, and CTAs are an
effective tool to capture a significant trend.”  On pension funds’ interest in de-risking solutions:  “The real challenge for pension funds is that many
experienced a lost decade with their equity allocations. Much of
the gains that they have acquired in the run-up to 2008 were
wiped out over the period of a couple years, and it’s taking a
long time to claw back. They do not want to experience that
again, their deficits have increased, and they have to get
consistent returns over time, and part of that is protecting
themselves from tail risk and reducing their risk.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  