-- IPOs in 2012 May Struggle With Lower Market Valuations, UBS Says
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2012-01-23T18:13:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/ipos-in-2012-may-struggle-with-lower-market-valuations-ubs-says.html
Initial public offerings in 2012 may
not generate much more cash than last year as lower-than-average
valuation levels in the broader stock market discourage
companies from going public, according to Zurich-based  UBS AG. (UBSN)   The average price-to-earnings ratio for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index this year is below the historical average,
meaning that companies aren’t likely to fetch attractive prices
in IPOs, said James Palmer, New York-based managing director of
 equity capital markets  at UBS.  S&P (SPX)  companies have an average price-to-earnings ratio of
about 13.7 so far this year, compared with an average of 15
during 2010 and 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That may lessen optimism tied to the fact that volatility has
receded 18 percent since year-end, as well as damp enthusiasm
for offerings of new stock, Palmer said.  “We’re not massively excited about IPO prospects this year
in terms of being a much higher volume number than last year,”
Palmer told reporters at a briefing. “There are still plenty of
market indicators saying it’s not necessarily a time to hit the
window right now, particularly for economically sensitive
businesses.”  Companies raised about $39 billion in U.S. IPOs in 2011,
Bloomberg data show, and “something in the low 40s would seem
to make sense” for 2012, Thomas Fox, UBS’s New York-based head
of  capital markets  for the Americas, said at the briefing.  Investors will seek IPOs that promise growth, Palmer said,
even as global economic expansion is estimated at 2.3 percent
for 2012, Bloomberg data show. Buyers will be interested in
“companies that have very clear, visible and strong growth
rates in the context of very, very soggy economies around the
world,” Palmer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  