-- Liquidnet’s Lou Kerner Departs Investment Firm After Three Months on Job
-- B y   A r i   L e v y   a n d   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-01-24T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/liquidnet-s-lou-kerner-departs-investment-firm-after-three-months-on-job.html
Lou Kerner, a social-media analyst
at Liquidnet Holdings Inc., left the firm yesterday, three
months after he was hired to lead a project focused on trading
shares of closely held companies.  Kerner and the company didn’t share the same views on the
“standing of the group,” he said in a phone interview. Still,
Kerner said that he left on good terms and that  Michael
Silverstein , his partner in the group, is staying. Liquidnet,
which operates trading platforms for mutual funds and asset
managers, confirmed Kerner’s departure and said it remains
committed to building the private-shares group.  “While a difficult decision, we concluded that he was not
a cultural fit for Liquidnet,” Melissa Kanter, a spokeswoman at
the New York-based company, said in an e-mail.  Kerner and Silverstein face a lawsuit from their former
employer, Wedbush Securities Inc., accusing them of taking
customer lists, documents and disclosures from the firm. Wedbush
filed the suit in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan on
Oct. 20, three days after Liquidnet announced the hiring of the
two men.  Liquidnet responded the following week, saying the suit
should be dismissed or delayed because Wedbush failed to file a
corresponding demand with the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority, required in disputes between registered members.
Kerner and Kanter both said the lawsuit is unrelated to his
departure.  Social-Media Focus  Kerner worked at Wedbush from the middle of 2010 until he
joined Liquidnet last year. In both jobs, he provided research,
trading and banking services to private companies in the social-
media and mobile-technology markets.  The move marks the latest high-profile departure for
Liquidnet. Alfred Eskandar, head of U.S. equities, left the firm
in December. It also has lost Anthony Barchetto, head of
corporate strategy; Kevin Lupowitz, global head of technology;
and Jay Biancamano, global head of marketplace and corporate
strategy, over the past year.  As of the end of 2010,  Liquidnet  had 637 institutions using
its platform, with an average of $20 billion in assets under
management, and the company offered trading in 39 markets
worldwide, according to its website.  The case is Wedbush Securities Inc. v. Liquidnet Inc.,
652875/2011, New York State Supreme Court ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  