-- Third Monkey Death at Harvard Triggers Federal Probe of Primate Research
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2012-01-23T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/third-monkey-death-at-harvard-triggers-federal-probe-of-primate-research.html
Harvard Medical School’s  New England
Primate Research Center  is under investigation by the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture  after the October death of a monkey in
a lab.  The case reflects both the widespread use of primates in
research laboratories and the efforts of federal officials to
enforce animal-welfare laws.  Last year there were 839 USDA investigations into
noncompliance issues involving horse and other animal keepers,
ranging from university research labs to circuses and dog-
breeding operations, said Alyn Kiel, a USDA spokeswoman. Dozens
of animals die in labs in accidents, experiments or from natural
causes every year, she said.  In July, a dead monkey was found in a mechanical washer at
 Bristol-Myers Squibb (BMY)  Co.’s lab in Pennington,  New Jersey ,
prompting a USDA inquiry. The agency fined the University of
 Washington ’s primate research center $10,893 for the death of a
monkey in 2009.  At the Harvard facility, the monkey escaped from its cage
prior to an imaging procedure and an employee used a hand-held
net to capture it, according to a December 2011 USDA report
released this month. At the end of the imaging, the animal
stopped moving, and a clinical veterinarian determined that it
had died. The cause of death isn’t stated in the report.  “We take the USDA findings seriously and deeply regret the
situation that led to this report,” Harvard Medical School said
in an e-mail statement sent to Bloomberg News by spokesman  David
Cameron .  ‘Unnecessary Discomfort’  The  Animal Welfare Act  requires labs to handle research
animals as “carefully” as possible to prevent “trauma,”
overheating, physical harm “behavioral stress or unnecessary
discomfort.”  The USDA enforces the law through its inspection of about
1,100 U.S. university and privately owned labs each year.
Harvard’s Primate Research Center has one of the largest
populations of monkeys among U.S. university research labs with
more than 2,400, according to 2010 USDA figures.  Tulane
University’s (27359MF)  National Primate Research Center had the most that
year, 6,300.  Other labs in the U.S. have had more incidents of dead
animals than Harvard. The USDA cited the University of  Alaska 
last year when 12 musk oxen died or had to be euthanized because
of malnutrition, and in 2010 a private lab in  Iowa  killed 39
pigs in a transport truck that lacked proper ventilation.  If investigators determine that the Harvard lab, which is
25 miles west of  Boston  in Southborough,  Massachusetts , violated
the Animal Welfare Act, it could face a maximum fine of $10,000,
David Sacks, a USDA spokesman, said by phone.  “The citations aren’t full-fledged violations until after
the investigation,” Sacks said.  Third Death  The incident is the third primate death at a Harvard lab
that has brought a USDA investigation in less than two years. In
October 2010, Harvard received an official warning from the USDA
after a dead monkey was found in a mechanical cage washer. Last
year, a USDA report disclosed that another primate died of a
drug overdose.  Harvard has received three warning letters and no fines in
the 44 years its animal-care procedures have been monitored by
the USDA, Sacks said.  The USDA’s inspection report about the dead monkey also
said that three of the lab’s other primates had patchy hair
loss, and one showed unusual behavior by licking its tail
excessively and scratching itself frequently. These symptoms
could be signs of “an animal being in psychological distress,”
the report said.  Missing Hair  “It was good to see that the USDA questioned the missing
hair and showing signs of abnormal behavior,” Kathleen Conlee,
senior director for animal-research issues at the  Humane Society
of the U.S. , said by phone. “They questioned whether the
primates were getting good care.”  The report also said that five pairs of primates were kept
in a 6-square-foot space although USDA rules require at least
4.3-square-foot cages for each animal given their size.  A 23-pound primate was kept in a 4.3-square-foot cage
instead of one that had at least 6 square feet of floor space,
the minimum required by USDA rules given the animal’s weight.  “We are working with federal authorities in an effort to
strengthen our process and to help ensure that we are
consistently applying best practices,” the  Harvard Medical
School  statement said.  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in  New York  at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 