-- Israel Sells $1.5 Billion of Bonds in First Overseas Offering Since 2009
-- B y   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a
-- 2012-01-23T22:15:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/israel-plans-first-overseas-bond-sale-in-three-years-with-10-year-offering.html
Israel  sold $1.5 billion of 10-year
bonds in the country’s first overseas offering in three years.  The government issued the bonds due 2022 yesterday to yield
4.115 percent, or 205 basis points more than similar-maturity
U.S. Treasuries, said a person familiar with the transaction who
declined to be identified because he isn’t allowed to speak
publicly.  “Israeli bonds represent a perfect opportunity to invest
in a safe haven with some yield,” Agnes Belaisch, a former
International Monetary Fund economist who now helps manage $2.5
billion in emerging-market debt funds at Threadneedle Asset
Management in  London , said in an e-mail.  Israel, which is rated A+ by  Standard & Poor’s , the same
level as Chile and Slovenia, last sold $1.5 billion of 10-year
bonds in February 2009 to yield 262.5 basis points, or 2.625
percentage points above Treasuries, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The 2019 securities yielded 3.4 percent in New
York trading.  Barclays Plc, Goldman Sachs Group Inc and UBS AG arranged
the bond sale.  Israel is raising money abroad as part of a strategic plan
to “put its name” in international markets once a year or
every two years, Senior Deputy Accountant General Eran Heimer
said in an interview on Dec. 14. The sales create a benchmark
that helps to support Israeli corporate bond offerings in
international markets, according to the  Finance Ministry ’s
website.  The Bank of Israel yesterday cut its benchmark  interest
rate  for the third time since the end of September to 2.5
percent, saying that  Europe  was facing a recession that was
hindering the domestic economy. The central bank and the Finance
Ministry have reduced their growth predictions for this year,
citing the European crisis. Exports make up about 40 percent of
the Israeli economy and Europe is one of the country’s largest
markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  