-- Japan Stock Futures Gain as Europe Officials Meet on Debt Plan
-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a   a n d   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o
-- 2012-01-23T23:28:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/japan-futures-australia-stocks-gain-as-europe-officials-meet-on-debt-plan.html
Japanese  stock   futures  and
Australian equities gained as European Union finance ministers
took steps to tame the region’s debt crisis, boosting the
outlook for Asia exporters.  American depositary receipts of  Canon Inc. (7751) , a Japanese
camera maker that depends on Europe for almost a third of its
sales, rose 0.7 percent from the closing price in Tokyo. Elpida
Memory Inc. may be active trading after the Yomiuri newspaper
reported the chipmaker is in talks with Micron Technology Inc.
and Nanya Technology Corp. about a three-way merger.  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , Australia’s No. 1 oil producer and the world’s
biggest mining company, gained 0.5 percent in Sydney after
prices for oil and metals advanced.  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  expiring in
March closed at 8,795 in Chicago yesterday, compared with 8,770
in Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 8,780 in
 Osaka  at 8:05 a.m. local time. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index
advanced 0.3 percent today. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index rose 0.1
percent in Wellington. Stock markets in  China ,  Hong Kong  and
South Korea and Singapore are shut for the Lunar New Year
holiday.  “The worst scenario that  Greece  will break away from the
euro region is gone, easing excessive worries about the European
debt issues,” said  Fumiyuki Nakanishi , a strategist at Tokyo-
based SMBC Friend Securities Co. “Globally, a feeling of
confidence to buy stocks is emerging.”  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  slid 0.1 percent
today. The index added 0.1 percent in New York yesterday, rising
for a fifth day, as energy and bank shares advanced and
investors weighed developments in  Europe ’s efforts to tackle its
debt crisis.  Europe Talks  Euro-area finance ministers agreed yesterday on the
region’s permanent rescue fund, the European Stability
Mechanism, based on a proposal by Finland. Germany and France
said talks between Greece and bondholders were making progress,
while a government official in Berlin said Germany may be open
to combining Europe’s two bailout mechanisms and boosting their
funding limit.  The euro gained versus 13 of its 16 major counterparts
tracked by Bloomberg as French Finance Minister  Francois Baroin 
said negotiations between debt-laden Greece and its private
creditors are making “tangible progress.”  The 17-nation currency appreciated to as high as 100.49 yen
today in Tokyo, compared with 99.34 at the close of stock
trading yesterday, boosting the value of some overseas income at
Japanese companies when repatriated.  Oil Rises  Oil rose for the first time in four days after the European
Union agreed to ban crude imports from  Iran , raising concern
that retaliation from the Islamic republic may disrupt the oil
supply in the Middle East.  Crude oil for March delivery climbed 1.3 percent to settle
at $99.58 a barrel in  New York  yesterday. The London Metal
Exchange Index of prices for six metals including copper and
aluminum advanced 1.4 percent to the highest level since Sept.
21.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (TPX)  gained 6.3 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with gains of 4.6 percent by the S&P
500 and 5.1 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Stocks in the
Asian benchmark are valued at 1.3 times book value. That
compares with 2.1 times for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index in
the U.S. and 1.4 times for the Europe Stoxx 600 Index in Europe.  The Bloomberg China-US 55 Index  of the most-traded Chinese
stocks in the U.S. added 0.5 percent to 101.81 yesterday in New
York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in  Tokyo  at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;
Satoshi Kawano in Tokyo at 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John McCluskey at 
 j.mccluskey@bloomberg.net  