-- Galleon, JPMorgan, Gupta, Apple, Merrill, UBS in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-01-23T11:52:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/jpmorgan-rajat-gupta-apple-merrill-ubs-boeing-in-court-news.html
Ex-Galleon Group LLC trader David
Slaine, who helped lead U.S. authorities to investigate the
hedge fund firm’s co-founder,  Raj Rajaratnam , was sentenced to
three years of probation for securities fraud.  Slaine wore a wire to record dozens of conversations with
suspects including ex-Galleon trader  Zvi Goffer  who were later
charged with insider trading. He provided help that prosecutors
from the office of Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara called
“nothing short of extraordinary.”  U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan, who sentenced Slaine
Jan. 20 in Manhattan federal court, also ordered him to perform
300 hours of community service and pay a $500,000 fine. Sullivan
praised Slaine’s cooperation, which began in 2007.  “Mr. Slaine, you have your life back,” Sullivan said at
the end of the sentencing hearing. “I think you’ve earned it,
by virtue of the work you’ve done over the last five years.”  Slaine’s evidence helped spur what became the biggest probe
of insider trading at  hedge funds , prosecutors said in a letter
to Sullivan this month. His lawyer, Stephen Kaufman, said Slaine
already has paid $836,000 in criminal forfeitures and to the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Slaine is now an investor at Spot, a Manhattan-based chain
that provides training, grooming and daycare for dogs, according
to Kaufman. Slaine also works there, Kaufman said.  “These last four years have been humbling and
humiliating,” Slaine told Sullivan at his sentencing hearing.
“I am ashamed of the bad decisions that I made back in 2002,
which haunt me to this day.”  Slaine, who pleaded guilty to conspiracy and securities
fraud in December 2009, testified at the trial of Goffer, his
brother Emanuel Goffer and Michael Kimelman, that he cooperated
with federal agents for about 2 1/2 years to try to avoid
prison. He faced a sentence of as long as 25 years in prison.  Slaine testified that he became friends in the late 1980s
or early 1990s with Craig Drimal, another former trader who
pleaded guilty.  The case is U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-00056, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  New Suits  Dexia Sues JPMorgan Over $1.7 Billion in Mortgage Securities  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , the biggest U.S. bank by assets, was
sued over mortgage-backed securities sold to  Dexia SA (DEXB)  because
the loans underlying the securities were allegedly riskier than
promised.  Dexia accused JPMorgan and companies it acquired -- Bear
Stearns Cos. and  Washington  Mutual -- of “egregious fraud,”
saying they created and sold mortgage bonds backed by loans that
they knew to be “exceptionally bad.”  Dexia, the Brussels-based French-Belgian lender, said the
complaint, filed Jan. 19 in New York State Supreme Court,
involves about $1.7 billion of mortgage securities. Dexia
suffered “substantial losses” because mortgages were of poorer
quality and the risks of default and losses were much higher
than represented, according to the complaint.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a spokeswoman for New York-based
JPMorgan, didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  The case is Dexia SA v. Bear Stearns & Co. Inc.,
650180-2012, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  Corzine Sued for RICO Violation by MF Global Customers  Jon Corzine,  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) ’s former chief
executive officer, was sued under U.S. racketeering law by
commodity customers alleging he and other executives
“unlawfully” took money from their accounts and failed to
segregate their money as the law requires.  The suit alleges that hundreds of millions of dollars were
transferred from customers’ accounts to other MF Global units,
at a time when the company was short of cash and faced calls for
collateral as its risky Eurobond and other investments fell in
value.  Named in the suit,  JPMorgan Chase & Co ., the company’s
banker, should have noticed the “depletion” of customer money,
and should have investigated, according to the complaint. The
customers are seeking unspecified restitution and damages.  The suit, filed in federal court in Manhattan on Jan. 20 on
behalf of Robert Marcin and other MF Global segregated account
holders by Grant & Eisenhofer PA, is one of at least 10 against
Corzine and other MF Global executives. Plaintiffs including the
Virginia Retirement System have been competing to lead a
consolidated lawsuit seeking so-called class-action status.  Mary Sedarat, a JPMorgan spokeswoman, declined to comment
on the suit. Andrew Levander, a lawyer for Corzine, didn’t
respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  The case is Marcin v. Corzine, 12-cv-0499, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  CFTC Position Limits Rule Lawsuit Dismissed by Appeals Court  Two Wall Street groups’ challenge to a U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission rule on position limits must first be
considered in a trial court, a federal appeals court ruled,
dismissing the case.  A three-judge panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals in
Washington said Jan. 20 that it doesn’t have jurisdiction to
consider the case because the Commodity Exchange Act and last
year’s Dodd-Frank law “are silent” on whether the rule can be
directly challenged to the appeals court.  “Initial review occurs at the appellate level only when a
direct-review statute specifically gives the court of appeals
subject-matter jurisdiction to directly review agency action,”
Judges Judith Rogers, Merrick Garland and Janice Rogers Brown
said, citing circuit precedent. “There is no express
congressional authorization of direct appellate review
applicable to the petition for review in this case.”  The  International Swaps and Derivatives Association Inc. 
and  Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association  filed
an emergency request Jan. 9 urging the appeals court to put the
rule on hold while the court considers their legal challenge.
The groups asked the court to issue a ruling by Jan. 27.  By dismissing the case, the judges also rejected that
request.  The groups, in one of the financial industry’s highest-
profile efforts to weaken last year’s Dodd-Frank law, filed
lawsuits challenging the rule in two federal courts in
Washington last month. The district court lawsuit had been put
on hold while the appeals court considered the case.  They argue that the CFTC used a flawed analysis of Dodd-
Frank when it decided to impose the restrictions. The
associations also said the CFTC failed to properly weigh the
rule’s costs and benefits.  Steven Adamske , a CFTC spokesman, declined to comment on
the ruling.  Ira Hammerman, general counsel for the  Securities Industry
and Financial Markets Association , said the association “will
move forward quickly in the district court.”  “The court’s ruling is entirely procedural, and was not a
decision about the merits of our challenge or of our request for
a stay,” Hammerman said.  Steve Kennedy, a spokesman for the  International Swaps and
Derivatives Association Inc. , didn’t immediately respond to a
phone message seeking comment after business hours.  The two associations represent  JPMorgan Chase & Co. ,
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS) , among other banks
and asset managers.  The case is International Swaps and Derivatives Association
v. CFTC, 11-01491, U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of
Columbia (Washington).  U.S. Defends Use of Wiretap Evidence in Rajat Gupta Prosecution  U.S. prosecutors opposed a bid by former Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. director Rajat Gupta to block use in his criminal
case of wiretap evidence obtained from the mobile phone of
convicted inside trader Raj Rajaratnam.  Six different judges authorized the wiretaps because they
are particularly appropriate in investigating insider trading,
which requires communication and is often difficult to detect
and prove beyond a reasonable doubt, the government said Jan. 19
in a filing opposing Gupta’s request to suppress the evidence.  “In an effort to suppress incriminating wiretap evidence
against him, Gupta has mimicked Rajaratnam’s arguments in
Rajaratnam’s failed attempt to suppress the wiretap evidence,”
prosecutors said in the filing in federal court in Manhattan.  Gupta, who also sat on the board of  Procter & Gamble Co .
and led McKinsey & Co., was indicted by a federal grand jury in
October on five counts of securities fraud and one count of
conspiracy to commit securities fraud for passing inside
information to Rajaratnam. Gupta also faces a lawsuit filed by
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Rajaratnam, the former Galleon Group LLC hedge fund
manager, was convicted last year of directing the biggest
insider-trading ring in a generation. It was one of the first
insider-trading cases in which the government made extensive use
of wiretaps.  Gary Naftalis , a lawyer for Gupta, didn’t return a call
seeking comment on the government’s filing.  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Apple, Microsoft Patent Lawyers Spend Fridays in Mannheim  If you were searching for  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s European patent
lawyers on a Friday, you would have better luck looking in the
German city of Mannheim than on the golf course or in a pub,
Bloomberg News’ Karin Matussek reports.  Judges in the southwest German city hold most patent
hearings on the last day of the week and will issue rulings in
smartphone disputes involving Apple,  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and
Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. over four of the five Fridays
that began Jan. 20. The city, along with Dusseldorf and Munich,
has become the center of European patent litigation as companies
seek quick rulings from German judges that influence courts
throughout the continent.  “If you have a big multinational corporation setting up a
patent litigation strategy for  Europe , they will almost always
sue in  Germany ,” said Rowan Freeland, a litigator at Simmons &
Simmons LLP in  London . “Maybe you add other countries as well,
but if you have to choose, it’s almost certainly Germany.”  Mobile device makers filed dozens of cases in the three
cities last year. Samsung lost Jan. 20 a patent-infringement
suit filed against Apple in the Mannheim court. The judges also
heard another suit between the two rivals.  Samsung said it was disappointed by the Jan. 20 ruling and
added that the decision isn’t indicative for other pending
cases.  Germany’s role in the European economy is just as important
as the speed of the rulings, issued by specialist judges, said
Peter-Michael Weisse, an attorney at intellectual-property
litigation firm  Wildanger  in Dusseldorf.  “If you want to conquer the European market and you’re
being stopped in Germany, most of the time that’s enough to
throw in the towel,” Weisse said. “Many companies say if they
cannot sell in Germany, it’s no use to go ahead with a product
somewhere else.”  London and The Hague, Netherlands, compete with Germany as
venues for European patent litigation. The Netherlands’
disadvantage is a smaller economy, while the U.K. is hindered by
high legal costs, Freeland said. While there is no pan-European
patent, courts often look for similar rulings in other
countries.  For more, click here.  U.K. Tabloid Publisher Loses Ruling Over Secret Evidence  The publisher of the Daily Mail tabloid in Britain lost a
lawsuit to ban the use of anonymous evidence by journalists at a
judge-led inquiry into media ethics, set up after News Corp.’s
phone-hacking scandal.  The ruling Jan. 20 in London allows unnamed reporters and
editors to allege illegal practices at newspapers other than
News Corp.’s now-shuttered News of the World tabloid.  Associated
Newspapers Ltd. (DMGT) , a unit of Daily Mail and General Trust Plc,
sued the inquiry over claims that anonymous statements would be
unfair and risk hurting other tabloids’ reputations.  Associated Newspapers also publishes the Mail on Sunday and
Metro in the U.K. The Daily Mail’s editor, Paul Dacre, has been
a critic of the inquiry, saying in October that phone hacking at
the News of the World exposed police failures in past
investigations rather than a need for more industry regulation.  The public interest in the inquiry’s chairman “being able
to pursue his terms of reference as widely and deeply as he
considers necessary is of the utmost importance,” Judge Roger
Toulson said in the judgment.  Lawyers for victims of phone hacking say journalists who
wish to expose wrongdoing at their newspapers should be free to
do so without fear of a backlash. The names of the newspapers
will also be left out of the statements.  The inquiry, led by Judge Brian Leveson, was announced in
July by U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron after revelations that
the News of the World hacked into the voice mail of a murdered
school girl in 2002, when she was missing. The probe extends
beyond  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s five-year-old scandal, covering the ethics
of the press and its relationship with politicians and police.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Stanford Investors Endure ‘Living Hell’ on Eve of Trial  R. Allen Stanford’s investors, after waiting three years to
see the  Texas  financier go to trial on charges of leading a $7
billion fraud, must hold on even longer before learning when
they will get some of their money back, Bloomberg News’ Andrew
Harris and Laurel Brubaker Calkins report.  Stanford’s customers have received nothing since the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission closed his businesses in
February 2009.  Stanford, accused of misleading people who bought
certificates of deposit from his Antigua-based bank, spent their
money on bad investments, sports sponsorships and a lavish
lifestyle that included yachts, a fleet of jets, mansions and a
private Caribbean island, U.S. prosecutors said. Jury selection
in his criminal trial is scheduled to start Jan. 23 in federal
court in Houston. Stanford, who denies any wrongdoing, faces as
long as 20 years in prison if convicted.  “It’s not fair that we have to be put through this living
hell,” said Blaine Smith of Louisiana, who claims to have lost
$1 million in life savings invested with Stanford.  A court-appointed receiver for Stanford Group Co. has spent
at least $103 million on litigation, wind-down costs and other
expenses, while collecting less than $212 million in cash and
material assets since the SEC sued Stanford in February 2009.  The expenditures include professional fees and expenses of
$52.1 million through October, with $1.3 million of this going
to receiver Ralph Janvey’s firm, Dallas-based Krage & Janvey
LLP, according to a Bloomberg review of court records. That sum
covers the $21.3 million Janvey asked court permission to pay
his primary outside law firm, Houston-based Baker Botts LLP, for
work done from Feb. 17, 2009, to Sept. 30, 2011.  Unlike Stanford, repayment processes have moved forward for
claimants in the Bernard L. Madoff fraud case and the bankruptcy
of  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) , the parent of commodities broker MF
Global Inc.  An attorney for Janvey said that it’s too soon to say when
investors may see some of the money.  The SEC case is Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Stanford International Bank Ltd., 09-cv-00298, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Texas (Dallas). The criminal case is
U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-00342, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of Texas (Houston). The receivership jurisdiction case
is In re Stanford International Bank Ltd., 3:09-cv-00721, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Texas (Dallas).  For more, click here.  U.K. Judge Tells Merrill, UBS to Seek Lombardy Swaps Settlement  Bank of America Corp .’s Merrill Lynch unit and  UBS AG (UBSN)  must
try to reach an out-of-court resolution to their dispute with
the Italian Region of Lombardy over interest-rate transactions,
a London judge ruled.  Judge Nigel Teare granted an order for alternative dispute
resolution at a hearing Jan. 20.  Merrill and UBS sued Lombardy in the U.K. in 2010 to uphold
derivatives contracts sold to the region. Lombardy, the northern
Italian region where Milan is located, accused the banks of
fraud and hidden fees, according to court papers.  Italian local governments including Tuscany, Lazio,
Piedmont and Florence have challenged investment banks in the
courts over derivatives contracts which turned out to cost more
than expected.  UBS lawyer Sonia Tolaney said at the Jan. 20 hearing the
Zurich-based bank had restarted informal negotiations with
Lombardy in December. Richard Handyside, an attorney for New
York-based Merrill, said the bank wasn’t currently in talks with
the region.  The Merrill case is Merrill Lynch International Bank Ltd.
v. The Region of Lombardy, 10-828, High Court of Justice,
Queen’s Bench Division, Commercial Court.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Ex-UBS Client Heller Gets 45-Day Jail Term for Tax Evasion  Kenneth Heller, a disbarred New York maritime lawyer, was
sentenced to 45 days in jail for using an offshore UBS AG
account to hide income from U.S. tax authorities.  Heller, 82, who pleaded guilty in June to three counts of
tax evasion for the years 2006, 2007 and 2008, was sentenced
Jan. 20 by U.S. District Judge Kevin Castel in Manhattan. The
parties agreed that the amount of taxes Heller avoided was
between $400,000 and $1 million. He also paid a $9.8 million
penalty to the Internal Revenue Service.  Heller, who faced as long as 15 years in prison, has
cancer, memory loss and other physical and mental problems,
according to a defense filing in which his lawyers asked that he
not be imprisoned.  Heller is “an elderly man at the end of his life who is in
almost constant pain and is faced with ever-mounting physical
disability,” defense lawyers said.  Citing Heller’s health, prosecutors recommended a sentence
shorter than the 30 to 37 months that both sides agreed would be
called for under federal sentencing guidelines, which are
nonbinding.  Heller was one of seven ex-clients of Zurich-based UBS
arrested on the same day in 2010 and charged with hiding more
than $100 million from the IRS.  UBS admitted in February 2009 that it helped U.S. clients
evade taxes. The bank avoided prosecution by paying a $780
million fine and turning over the names of U.S. account holders
to investigators.  The case is U.S. v. Heller, 10-mg-742, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Boeing to Pay U.S. $4.4 Million to End Chinook Billing Case  Boeing Co. (BA) , the second-largest defense contractor, agreed
to pay the U.S. $4.4 million to resolve allegations that it
overbilled the government for work on Chinook military
helicopters.  The settlement requires Boeing to retrain its employees and
make improvements to software it uses to track its billing,
Philadelphia U.S. Attorney Zane Memeger said Jan. 20 in a
statement. A whistle-blower lawsuit alerted the government to
the issue, according to the statement.  “Some of the most important cases begin with a citizen who
sees something wrong and speaks up,” Memeger said in the
statement. “Whistle-blowers who notify the government of
possible fraud allow us both to correct that specific problem
and to prevent similar misconduct from recurring in the
future.”  The U.S. Justice Department awarded Boeing a contract in
2003 to produce and modify new Chinook helicopters as part of
the Army’s effort to modernize its fleet. More than 100 Chinooks
were ordered.  A government probe revealed that Boeing managers instructed
mechanics to perform non-billable work while separately billing
the U.S. for their time, resulting in the government being
charged for work for which it had already paid, according to the
statement.  Damien Mills, a spokesman at Boeing’s Chinook plant in
Ridley Park, Pennsylvania, said the company cooperated fully
with the government’s investigation.  “As the investigation revealed, this is a matter of
inadequate charging discipline in the past, not of any
deliberate wrongdoing,” Mills said in an e-mailed statement.  The case is U.S. v. The Boeing Co., 10-cv-00634, U.S.
District Court Eastern District of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia)  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Lehman Pays More Than $500 Million to Marsal Firm in 39½Months  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  has paid more than $500
million in fees to restructuring firm Alvarez & Marsal LLC in 39
1/2 months, according to a court filing.  The firm, whose co-founder  Bryan Marsal  runs the defunct
investment bank, charged $504.2 million through December for
“interim management,” including $8 million last month,
according to the filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.  Lehman, which has spent almost $1.6 billion on fees since
filing the biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history in September 2008,
paid $54.1 million to lawyers and managers in December,
according to the filing.  Lehman’s bankruptcy became America’s most costly in April
2010, when it surpassed the $757 million cost of  Enron Corp. (ENRNQ) ’s
three-year liquidation, according to data assembled by
bankruptcy professor Lynn LoPucki at the University of
 California ,  Los Angeles . The failed energy trader’s investors
were paid 53 cents on the dollar, while Lehman’s $65 billion
liquidation plan would give the average creditor less than 18
cents, according to court documents.  New York-based Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP, Lehman’s lead
bankruptcy law firm, has earned $375.1 million, including $8.5
million in December.  Marsal, who bills Lehman hourly, has said he will start
distributing some cash to the defunct investment bank’s
creditors by next year, more than three years after the
bankruptcy filing. He has court approval for the $65 billion
liquidation plan that intends to raise about $40 billion in the
next few years, excluding cash on hand, according to court
papers.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Court Filings  Kodak Bankruptcy Filing Most Popular Docket on Bloomberg  Eastman Kodak Co., the photography pioneer that introduced
the Brownie Camera more than a century ago and filed for
bankruptcy Jan. 19, was the most-read docket on the Bloomberg
Law system last week.  The Rochester, New York-based company, which traces its
roots to 1880, listed assets of $5.1 billion and debt of $6.8
billion in Chapter 11 documents filed in U.S. Bankruptcy Court
in Manhattan.  The bankruptcy case is In re Eastman Kodak Co., 12-10202,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  