-- JPMorgan Sued by John Hancock Over Mortgage Securities
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-01-23T17:52:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/jpmorgan-sued-by-john-hancock-over-mortgage-securities.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  was sued by
Manulife Financial Corp.’s  John Hancock  Life Insurance unit,
which accused the bank of fraud in connection with the sale of
residential mortgage-backed securities.  The lawsuit, filed today in New York state Supreme Court in
Manhattan, seeks unspecified damages for losses of market value
and principal and interest payments, as well as rescission and
recovery of payment for the investments.  John Hancock bought the securities “in reliance on the
false and misleading” statements made by the defendants, which
include Bear Stearns & Co. and  Washington Mutual Inc. (WAMUQ) , both of
which were acquired by JPMorgan, lawyers for the Boston-based
insurer said in the lawsuit.  “Based on these material misrepresentations and omissions,
plaintiffs purchased securities that were far riskier than had
been represented, backed by  mortgage loans  worth significantly
less than had been represented, and that had been made to
borrowers who were much less creditworthy than had been
represented,” attorneys for John Hancock said in the lawsuit.  Pools of home loans securitized into bonds were a central
part of the housing bubble that helped send the U.S. into the
biggest recession since the 1930s. The housing market collapsed,
and the crisis swept up lenders and investment banks as the
market for the securities evaporated.  Jennifer Zuccarelli, a spokeswoman for JPMorgan, didn’t
immediately return a telephone message left at her office
seeking comment on the lawsuit.  The case is John Hancock Life Insurance Co. v.  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) , 650195/2012, New York state  Supreme Court 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  