-- Judge Confirmed as Republicans Object to Obama Nominations
-- B y   S e t h   S t e r n
-- 2012-01-24T13:17:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/judge-confirmed-after-republican-complaints-on-obama-nominations.html
The U.S. Senate’s confirmation of a
federal judge may be one of the last of President Barack Obama’s
nominees cleared as Republicans consider whether to retaliate
against his recess appointments.  The 74-16 vote yesterday to confirm John M. Gerrard as a
U.S. district judge in Nebraska had been scheduled prior to
Obama’s Jan. 4 recess appointment of a consumer financial
watchdog,  Richard Cordray , and three members of the  National
Labor Relations Board .  Those appointments may “adversely” affect action on 78
other nominations pending before the full Senate, “if they go
at all,” said Senator  John Barrasso  of Wyoming, a member of the
Republican leadership.  Republican senators, who cast their first vote of the year
on Gerrard, haven’t talked about nominations as a group or
decided how to respond to the recess appointments, said Senator
 Jon Kyl  of Arizona, the second-ranking Republican leader.
Senators will discuss their response at a Jan. 25 retreat,
Barrasso said.  The Constitution gives presidents the power to make
appointments without Senate confirmation when the chamber is in
recess. Republicans say Obama’s Jan. 4 appointments were
unlawful because the Senate was holding brief pro-forma sessions
every three days during the holiday break.  The Senate needs to take “some action in a tangible way”
to show it isn’t giving in to the recess appointments, Senator
 Jeff Sessions , an Alabama Republican who serves on the Judiciary
Committee, said in an interview.  Delaying Other Confirmations  “I can’t say that delaying other confirmations wouldn’t be
some of the action that would be considered,” Sessions said.  Senator  Tom Coburn , an Oklahoma Republican and member of
the Judiciary Committee, said he thought the Cordray nomination
should be challenged in court, not by senators holding up
judicial nominations. “I think it violated the Constitution,
and there ought to be a lawsuit over it rather than a reaction
to it,” he said.  Senator  Charles Grassley  of  Iowa , the top Judiciary
Committee Republican, said he wasn’t attempting to interfere
with consideration of Gerrard’s nomination because the vote
“was locked in” before Obama made the recess appointments.  “I am not going to hold this nominee accountable for the
outrageous actions of the president,” Grassley said in remarks
prepared for delivery on the Senate floor.  Bipartisan Support  Gerrard, 58, who served on the  Nebraska  Supreme Court since
1995, received bipartisan support from his two home-state
senators to become a federal judge.  Democratic Senator  Ben Nelson  appointed Gerrard to the
state’s highest court while serving as governor. Republican
Senator Mike Johanns said he would “do everything I possibly
can to try to bring his nomination to a vote,” while
introducing Gerrard at his Judiciary Committee confirmation
hearing last September.  Other Obama nominees awaiting votes in the Senate include
18 judicial picks and candidates for comptroller of the
currency, two spots on the Federal Trade Commission and two
slots on the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.’s board.  Eighteen other judicial nominees are being considered by
the Judiciary Committee, according to Erica Chabot, a committee
spokeswoman.  Retaliation against judicial nominees may make it harder
for Obama to reduce the 80 vacancies on the federal bench at the
end of 2011, or 25 more than when he took office, said Russell
Wheeler, a scholar at the  Brookings Institution , a research
group in Washington.  Fewer Confirmations  The Senate confirmed 64 judicial nominees in 2011, bringing
the total since Obama took office to 124, compared with 168
during the first three years of  George W. Bush ’s administration,
Chabot said.  Democratic lawmakers say Republicans have unnecessarily
delayed votes even on non-controversial nominees who received
unanimous support in the Judiciary Committee.  Republican lawmakers say Obama is to blame for moving too
slowly on nominations early in his tenure. They also point to
the fact that more judges were confirmed in 2011 than in the
previous two years combined, even after Republicans won more
seats in the Senate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seth Stern in  Washington  at 
 sstern14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  