-- Justice Department Antitrust Chief Pozen Is Resigning in April
-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2012-01-24T00:07:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/justice-department-antitrust-chief-said-to-plan-departure-1-.html
Sharis Pozen, acting chief of the
U.S.  Justice Department ’s antitrust division, will leave her
position on April 30.  “It has been an honor and privilege to serve in the
antitrust division and in this administration for the past three
years,” she said in a statement provided by the Justice
Department.  When named to her post in August, Pozen, 47, agreed to stay
long enough to oversee the department’s lawsuit to block  AT&T
Inc. (T) ’s $39 billion bid to buy  T-Mobile USA (DTE)  Inc. on the grounds
the deal would hurt competition, said a person familiar with the
matter who wasn’t authorized to speak publicly. Germany’s
 Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  is the parent company of T-Mobile.  Pozen is leaving the government job after AT&T last month
dropped its bid for T-Mobile, an acquisition challenged by the
department and opposed by the Federal Communications Commission
as well.  The case was the result of an investigation begun under
Pozen’s predecessor, Christine Varney. Under Pozen, the
department also successfully pressured  H&R Block Inc. (HRB)  to abandon
its acquisition of the maker of the TaxAct tax-preparation
software.  “Typically, acting assistant attorney generals are
relatively timid,” said David Balto, a Washington-based
antitrust attorney. “She did not act as a caretaker” and
“showed a tremendous amount of leadership.”  Pozen’s successor hasn’t been named.  Within the Department  The Obama administration probably will name someone within
the department as acting antitrust chief, said David Meyer,
former antitrust official at the Justice Department under
President George W. Bush’s administration.  “Bringing someone in from the outside would be difficult”
in an election year, he said.  In a statement accompanying her resignation, Attorney
General Eric Holder said Pozen “has provided strong leadership
and sound legal judgment on some of the most significant
competition matters” handled by the Justice Department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in  Washington  at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  