-- KB Home Offering Solar as Standard Feature on New Florida Houses
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2012-01-23T21:18:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/kb-home-offering-solar-as-standard-feature-on-new-florida-houses.html
KB Home, the Los Angeles-based
builder that targets first-time buyers, will offer solar power
systems as a standard feature on houses it’s building in some
parts of  Florida .  The first KB house with rooftop panels will be available
next month at its Fisher Plantation development in Apopka,
George Glance, president of KB Home’s Central Florida division,
said today in a phone interview.  The 52-home community is the first in the region to include
solar power as a standard feature, according to a company
statement. Rooftop panels reduce homeowners’ monthly costs and
increase resale value, and will make KB’s houses stand out in a
tough real estate market, Glance said.  “We can create value in a new home that consumers couldn’t
otherwise get from our competitors or on the resale market,”
Glance said. The owner of a one-story, three-bedroom home may
save as much as $1,200 a year on energy costs,  KB Home (KBH)  said.  The solar-equipped homes in Fisher Plantation will start in
the “low $200,000s,” the company said. KB already offers
similar solar options on more than 1,000 homes in  California .  BlueChip Energy LLC is providing 1.4-kilowatt solar systems
to KB. They retail for $10,800, and KB is getting them for a
discounted price, Glance said.  Homebuyers are eligible through 2016 for a federal tax
credit worth about $3,000, or 30 percent of the cost of the
solar unit.  The incentives, combined with the convenience of having the
system built into new structures, may appeal to buyers, said
 Harvey Bryan , a professor at  Arizona State University ’s Global
Institute of Sustainability and its Herberger Institute for
Design and the Arts.  “It’s like the granite counter top -- you’ve got to make
it that easy of a decision,” Bryan said in a phone interview.
“It’s a no-brainer now. Installations are becoming very
simple.”  Representatives for Lake Mary, Florida-based BlueChip
Energy didn’t return phone messages seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  