-- Kremlin-Backed Fund Seeks European Investments, Arab Partners
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2012-01-23T15:22:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/kremlin-backed-fund-seeks-european-investments-arab-partners.html
Kremlin-backed private-equity fund
plans to buy into at least two European companies this year,
part of the Russian government’s drive to gain access to western
expertise to modernize its industry.  The Russian Direct Investment Fund is looking at companies
in  Italy ,  France ,  Germany  and  Netherlands , its head Kirill Dmitriev said by phone today. The $2 billion Moscow-based fund
may conclude deals in the third or fourth quarter by acquiring
minority stakes.  The Kremlin established the fund in June to co-finance
international investment in modernizing industries amid efforts
to wean the economy off its dependence on energy exports, which
account for 17 percent of its gross domestic product. While it
targets to finance domestic projects, the fund also wants to use
financial turmoil in  Europe  to snap up technology assets to help
its cause.  “Historically, Europe has been prejudiced against
investment from Russia,” Dmitriev said. “We think that one of
the positive effects of the crisis is that people become more
pragmatic, see better synergies and understand that mutual
cross-border investments can be one of the best antidotes to the
crisis.”  Closer Integration  Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin , who announced in September
his intention to return to the presidency this year, said
Russian capital should be invested abroad to allow for the
country’s closer integration with Europe and the rest of the
world.  “Our partners invest in the Russian economy many times the
capital that we do in foreign countries,” Putin said in a
televised phone-in show on Dec. 15. “The West is not very good
about letting us enter into its life-important spheres.”  Dmitriev said that the fund is looking for companies in
areas such as automotive components,  energy efficiency  and
aviation. He declined to identify the target companies or say
how much the fund is prepared to spend.  The fund can invest as much as 20 percent of its resources
outside of  Russia . It may also use some of the $1 billion that
 China Investment Corp. (CHIVCZ) , the nation’s sovereign-wealth fund,
committed last year, Dmitriev said.  The joint Russia-China Investment Fund is looking at
investment projects in agriculture, logistics, energy efficiency
and pharmaceutical sectors in Russia and other former Soviet
countries, he said.  Arab Investors  The Russian fund may also create a similar joint venture
with Arab investors, potentially worth “billions of dollars,”
Dmitriev said.  The private-equity fund set up by President  Dmitry Medvedev 
is trying to reassure those wary of investing in the country by
putting government money alongside their capital in pursuit of
returns of as much as 30 percent, Dmitriev said in a Sept. 22
interview.  The Russian government will pump about $10 billion into the
fund in the next five years, and wants to attract an additional
$50 billion of co-investments from foreign buyout firms,
sovereign-wealth funds and companies seeking to expand in the
country, he said at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  