-- Krug, Rubens Lure Wine Buyers as U.S. Fights Rise of Hong Kong
-- B y   E l i n   M c C o y
-- 2012-01-23T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/krug-rubens-lure-wine-buyers-as-u-s-fights-rise-of-hong-kong.html
At  Christie’s International (CHRS) ’s first
 New York  wine sale of the year on Jan. 25, Krug Grande Cuvee
champagne will flow in the presence of Old Master paintings to
inspire buyers to bid big, or so the auction house hopes.  This cross-cultural branding is just one way auction
houses, which started rushing off to Hong Kong four years ago,
are refocusing in 2012.  Christie’s has discovered that their clients who collect
classic paintings also dabble in wine, so the Wines of  France 
sale at 5 p.m. follows Old Masters Part 1 at 10 a.m., with works
by Peter Paul Rubens and Anthony van Dyck, and the Art of France
at 2 p.m. featuring seductive paintings by Jean-Honore
Fragonard. The theory seems to be: they won’t stop spending if
you don’t let them leave the building.  How well will the “heavily curated” 156 lots of mostly
top Bordeaux fare in New York?  Hong Kong  auctions have been sucking attention and wines
away from the U.S. As prices skyrocketed there, the best
Bordeaux, followed by Burgundy, were often offered in Hong Kong
instead of New York.  Of the $478 million sales by major auction houses last
year, $230 million came from Hong Kong, while the U.S. took in
$146 million. Yet the last few Hong Kong sales showed  Asia ’s
demand for first growth Bordeaux, especially recent vintages, is
slowing. Prices are falling.  “New York is still a very strong market,” said Robin
Kelley O’Connor, head of Christie’s North American sales.
“Buyers are global. And fine wine and great art have a
harmonious relationship.” The Jan. 25 sale is a beta exercise;
a combo with jewelry or watches may be next.  ‘Like to Spend’  “There’s no wine consumer like the U.S. consumer,” said
Kevin Swersey, a private wine adviser and consultant to Spectrum
Auctions. “They like to spend, they’re savvy about wine. The
U.S. is an undervalued asset that’s been overshadowed by Hong
Kong.”  One thing that characterizes U.S. auctions is their
diversity. Hong Kong focuses on top names in Bordeaux and
Burgundy. In the U.S. you also find the mid-tier labels, plus
wines from  Italy , the Rhone, California, and  Germany .  “Only about 10 Burgundy names attract Asian buyers,” said
Marc Lazar of Cellar Advisors. “And those are the most
expensive. New collectors fare better in the U.S. -- they can
take little bites.”  There’s a lot of diversity in the Feb. 4 sale at Tru
restaurant by  Chicago ’s Hart Davis Hart, the leader in U.S.
auctions during 2011 with $37.4 million in sales. Its last two
events were packed.  Ben Nelson , HDH’s president, was checking six-figure bid
sheets for the sale from Brazilian and American collectors when
I reached him by phone. “Seventy percent of what we sell is
Bordeaux,” he said. “If prices drop 30 to 40 percent, we have
to sell more wine.”  Drinkable Price  HDH’s 1,260 lots include plenty of $50 to $200 wines for
actual drinking. Bottles in that  price range  aren’t expensive
enough for auction houses to bother shipping them to Hong Kong
to sell. For his clients, Lazar will be bidding for 1999
Burgundies from Nicolas Potel, Sylvain Cathiard, and Anne Gros.  John Kapon , chief executive officer of New York-based Acker
Merrall & Condit, the auction leader in Hong Kong, is expanding
by adding Chicago to his roster.  His second sale there, on Jan. 28, is at  The Elysian Hotel .
Kapon enthuses about the company’s worldwide 2011 results --
$110 million, including his online auctions.  “Domestic sales are solid,” he said. “They’re more A to
Z, not just A+ bottles.” He acknowledges that Hong Kong can’t
go up and up every year, which is why he’s spreading to more
markets.  Going to London  Spectrum Wine Auctions LLC  in  Irvine ,  California , is
expanding to  London , partnering with U.K.-based Vanquish Fine
Wines Ltd. Their first sale, on Feb. 8, is in the Mandarin
Oriental’s Grand Ballroom.  After holding its first sales in  Los Angeles , Spectrum
quickly moved to Hong Kong in 2010 and 2011 to take advantage of
rising prices. It’s the only U.S. house to take on the U.K.  “London sales are solemn daytime affairs in small grey
rooms,” said Vanquish’s Richard Brierley, former head of wines
for Christie’s in New York. “We aim to build a new convivial
style with an evening sale, champagne, hors d’oeuvres, tables.”  Even the catalog looks different, a square shape with a
fashionably black, suede-feel cover. The 177 lots of amazing
rarities include pricy Romanee-Conti from 13 vintages ($9,500 to
$125,000); a jeroboam, magnums and cases of 1961 Chateau Latour
(estimates $19,000 to $35,000); 6 magnums of 1945 Chateau Haut-
Brion ($50,000); and, of course, some 1982 Lafite (a 6-liter
imperial, $23,000).  ‘Training Wheels’  So far, the U.S. pretty much rules online wine auctions.
Frank Martell of Heritage Auctions, which started live wine
sales in  Beverly Hills  as well as regular online sales in 2011,
is bullish on the growth of what he calls “auctions with
training wheels.”  Winebid.com, the online leader, had $26 million in sales in
2011, while Acker’s online revenue was up 19 percent. Both say a
big percentage of buyers are from the U.S.  “This is the future,” said Skip Sanzeri, new CEO of
Winegavel.com, a 2009 startup. “It’s where younger collectors
will feel comfortable.”  ( Elin McCoy  writes on wine and spirits for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  To contact the writer of this story:
Elin McCoy at  elinmccoy@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 