-- Second N.J. Congressman Seeks Legislation to Open State to Sports Betting
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2012-01-23T16:40:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/n-j-congressman-lobiondo-proposing-legislation-to-lift-sports-betting-ban.html
New Jersey  congressman Frank LoBiondo said he will introduce legislation to let states seek
exemptions from a federal sports-betting ban.  LoBiondo, a Republican in the House of Representatives,
said his legislation would revise a 1992 federal law that allows
sports betting only in Nevada,  Delaware , Montana and Oregon.
States would have until 2016 to seek exemptions, LoBiondo said
in a statement on his website.  The bill differs from one proposed by Representative Frank Pallone, a Democrat from Long Branch. Pallone, in a statement on
his website in November, said he would amend the 1992 law to
make New Jersey a betting state, too. He has scheduled a press
conference in Trenton this afternoon to discuss the proposal.  “If it’s going to be a New Jersey exemption only, what
gives those other states the incentive?” Jason Galanes, a
spokesman for LoBiondo, said in a phone interview. “We went
with the idea to let all states have an equal opportunity.”  New Jersey, with resorts along Atlantic Ocean beaches, is
the second-largest U.S. casino market, behind  Nevada . Pressures
on the industry, including competition from new casinos in
neighboring  Pennsylvania , last year led Republican Governor
 Chris Christie ’s administration to approve a $261 million tax
reimbursement for the newest resort, the Revel casino scheduled
to open this year.  In November, New Jersey voters passed a ballot measure
supporting sports betting at casinos and tracks, 64 percent to
36 percent. Christie on Jan. 17 signed a bill that would permit
wagering on professional and college sports if the federal ban
is lifted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  