-- Giants to Meet Patriots in Super Bowl, Seeking Repeat of 2008 Championship
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-01-23T06:13:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/n-y-giants-beat-49ers-20-17-in-overtime-will-meet-patriots-in-super-bowl.html
The  New York Giants  will face New
England in the Super Bowl, four years after ending the Patriots’
pursuit of a perfect season.  The Giants beat the San Francisco 49ers 20-17 in last
night’s  National Football Conference  title game on a 31-yard
field goal by  Lawrence Tynes  with 7:06 left in overtime. The
winning kick came after the Giants recovered a fumbled punt by
Kyle Williams at the 49ers’ 24-yard line.  “There was moisture, the footing was tough, the balls were
really slick,” said Tynes, who also made the winning kick in
overtime as the Giants won the NFC championship in Green Bay
four years ago. “I am going to a dome for the  Super Bowl , so I
am going to be happy.”  The Patriots held on for a 23-20 victory in yesterday’s
American Football Conference championship game as Billy Cundiff
missed a 32-yard field goal for the  Baltimore Ravens  with 11
seconds left.  Tom Brady  ran for the go-ahead touchdown with
11:29 left, helping send the Patriots to the Super Bowl for the
fifth time in 11 years and tying Joe  Montana ’s National Football
League record among quarterbacks with his 16th career postseason
victory.  The Giants (12-7) and Patriots (15-3) will meet in the
Super Bowl on Feb. 5 at Indianapolis’s Lucas Oil Stadium.  The Patriots have won 10 straight games since their last
loss, at home against the Giants on Nov. 6. The Giants, who are
three-point underdogs, have won five straight games.  “It’s all about getting hot at the right time and that’s
what we’re doing,” Giants defensive end  Justin Tuck  said after
yesterday’s game in  San Francisco . “I hate to compare this team
to 2007, but it’s kind of the same thing we did then. It’s hard
to count out the Giants.”  Giants-Patriots II  The Giants won three straight road playoff games after the
2007 season and then upset New England 17-14 in Glendale,
 Arizona , to prevent the Patriots from finishing 19-0. The Giants
were 12-point underdogs in that game, and the Patriots are
favored by three points this time.  “We know they’re a great team,” said Giants quarterback
 Eli Manning , who passed for 316 yards and two touchdowns against
the 49ers. “They’ve been playing great football recently. We’re
going to celebrate, have fun and then start getting prepared, go
to Indy and play our best football.”  Indianapolis is the city in which Manning’s older brother,
Peyton, has spent the past 14 years with the Colts, winning four
NFL Most Valuable Player awards and one Super Bowl title.  If Eli Manning can beat the Patriots again, he’d have two
NFL championships to Peyton’s one, in six fewer seasons.  “I’m not thinking about that, I’m just thinking about the
team and this opportunity,” Manning said. “It doesn’t matter
to me where we’re playing it.”  Super Bowl History  The Giants are 3-1 in the Super Bowl, having also won
titles after the 1986 and 1990 seasons.  The Patriots are 3-3 in the NFL’s title game and previously
won championships behind Brady and coach  Bill Belichick  after
the 2001, 2003 and 2004 seasons.  “You pinch yourself to get this opportunity,” Brady said.
‘I’m privileged to be part of an incredible organization and to
play with a great group of teammates.’’  The Giants benefited from two miscues by punt returner Kyle
Williams to improve to 5-0 in NFC championship games.  The first came with 11:05 left in the fourth quarter, when
a punt glanced off Williams’s knee and the Giants recovered at
the 49ers’ 29-yard line. Six plays later, Manning threw a 17-
yard touchdown pass to  Mario Manningham  to give the Giants a
17-14 lead with 8:34 left.  Overtime Fumble  After the Giants’ second overtime drive stalled, Williams
hauled in the 12th punt by Steve Weatherford and was stripped of
the ball. The Giants then ran the ball four times to set up
Tynes’s second winning overtime kick in an NFC championship. He
made a 47-yard field goal as New York beat the  Green Bay  Packers
23-20 in the NFC title game after the 2007 season.  “It was just one of those situations where the guy caught
me slipping and got the ball out,” Williams said of his
overtime fumble. “Everybody here has told me to keep my head
up, that it’s not on me and we’ll move forward, but you hate to
be the last guy who had the ball and to give it up that way and
lose a game of this magnitude.”  The Patriots held on for the win as Baltimore, which last
reached the Super Bowl after the 2000 season, blew two scoring
opportunities in the closing seconds.  On second down from the  New England  14-yard line with 22
seconds left, Ravens quarterback  Joe Flacco  threw a pass to Lee
Evans in the end zone. The ball hit Evans in the chest but was
stripped by Sterling Moore before Evans had possession.  Cundiff’s Miss  Two plays later, Cundiff, who made the  Pro Bowl  last
season, pulled his kick wide to the left, setting off a
celebration in Gillette Stadium as several Ravens players stood
on the sideline with their hands on their heads.  Stephen Gostkowski kicked three field goals and  BenJarvus
Green-Ellis  rushed for 68 yards and a touchdown for the
Patriots, who were the top seed in the AFC. Baltimore finishes
the season 13-5.  Brady, who was intercepted twice and failed to throw a
touchdown pass for the first time in 18 games this season,
credited the Patriots’ defense for pulling out the win.  “I sucked today, but our defense saved us,” Brady said in
the trophy ceremony. “I’m going to try to go out and do a
better job in a couple weeks.”  Both teams have two weeks to prepare for the championship
game, which will be the first played in Indianapolis.  “It’s going to be a rematch of probably the best Super
Bowl ever played,” Tuck said. “I’m happy to be a part of it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  