-- Navratilova Criticizes Tennis Ranking That Has Wozniacki at World No. 1
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-01-23T13:20:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/navratilova-criticizes-tennis-ranking-that-has-wozniacki-at-world-no-1.html
Martina Navratilova  questioned
 Caroline Wozniacki ’s status as the No. 1 women’s tennis player,
criticizing the system that put her there for placing too much
emphasis on the quantity of wins rather than the quality.  Navratilova, who won 18 Grand Slam singles titles, said
that Wimbledon champion Petra Kvitova should already have
dislodged Wozniacki atop the Women’s Tennis Association rankings
because she had a better 2011 season overall.  “Clearly nobody feels that Wozniacki is a true No. 1,”
Navratilova said yesterday at a news conference at the
Australian Open in Melbourne. “If we still had the same ranking
system we were using six years ago, when they were giving bonus
points for beating players, Kvitova would have ended up No. 1
because she had beaten more top players than Wozniacki.”  No. 2-ranked Kvitova of the  Czech Republic  and Wozniacki
captured a WTA-leading six titles in 2011, though Kvitova
claimed her first major at Wimbledon and also won the season-
ending WTA Championships. Wozniacki of Denmark is yet to win one
of the sport’s four most-prestigious tournaments and is spending
her 66th and 67th weeks  atop the rankings  at Melbourne Park.  Kvitova, Wozniacki,  Maria Sharapova  of  Russia  and
Belarusian Victoria Azarenka can all clinch the No. 1 ranking at
the end of the tournament. Kvitova and Sharapova advanced to the
quarterfinals yesterday, while Wozniacki takes on defending
champion Kim Clijsters for a semifinal spot today and Azarenka
faces Agnieszka Radwanska, the No. 8 seed from  Poland .  Wozniacki has held the No. 1 ranking since Oct. 11, 2010,
and has stayed there with the exception of just one week last
year, when Clijsters of  Belgium  returned to No. 1 for the first
time in nearly five years.  2006 Change  Although Wozniacki deserved to be No. 1 in 2010 based on
her record and was evenly-matched with Kvitova last year, she no
longer merits the status, Navratilova said.  “Caroline doesn’t need to explain why she was No. 1, it’s
the WTA that needs to explain that,” Navratilova said.  The WTA simplified its rankings system in 2006 to make it
easier for fans and media to understand them, spokeswoman Amy
Binder said. One of the changes involved the abolition of so-
called quality points, which took into account the ranking of
beaten opponents.  “I would just like for it to be weighted,” Navratilova
said. “I don’t think that’s a true reflection of how a player
is playing right now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes at  Melbourne  Park at  dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  