-- New Tax Rules Harass Foreign Bankers for Little in Return: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-01-23T00:00:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/new-tax-rules-harass-foreign-bankers-for-little-in-return-view.html
Americans already hate the  Internal
Revenue Service . If Congress has its way, the rest of the world
may soon follow.  In an act of hubris that could cost banks around the globe
billions of dollars, Congress has directed the IRS to impose new
rules requiring foreign financial companies to determine who
among their accountholders is an American citizen.  The  Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act , a monster of a
provision inserted into a jobs bill and enacted in 2010, will be
phased in starting in 2014. Known as FATCA, it aims to build on
recent successful crackdowns on Americans hiding their money
overseas.  The law’s goals are laudable, but it is simply too costly,
too burdensome and too impractical to be effective.  FATCA will require all “foreign financial institutions” --
a strikingly broad designation -- to make agreements with the
IRS and declare which of their existing accounts holding $50,000
or more belong to Americans. Companies that don’t comply will be
slapped with a 30 percent withholding tax on outbound profits on
their U.S. investments -- including on sales of securities.  If a company can’t adequately demonstrate that a given
accountholder isn’t an American, a withholding tax will be
applied to that customer’s share of the company’s U.S. income.
Same if the company makes a payment to a nonparticipating
financial institution.  Costs to Banks  Needless to say, banks find the potential costs of this
imposition intolerable. A  letter  published by the European
Banking Federation and the Institute of International Bankers
estimates the cost of compliance for a large bank at $250
million, and a total cost to the industry of “at least several
billion dollars.”  Exaggeration is not unknown among bankers facing new
regulations. But on this count, we think they have a point.  Reviewing every account to determine the citizenship of
every client is a staggeringly complicated task for large
companies. The Japanese Bankers Association notes that  Japan ’s
banks alone would  need to review  more than 800 million accounts.
In some countries, divulging such information to foreign
governments is illegal.  Companies including Deutsche Bank AG have already closed
American accounts in response to the law. Studies from companies
such as  BlackRock Inc . and  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP  have said
that the law could push financial institutions to avoid U.S.
capital markets entirely. That sounds far-fetched. But Congress
seems determined to test the proposition.  And for what? The Joint Committee on Taxation says FATCA
will  save the government  about $8 billion over 10 years --
hardly a windfall, given that the IRS’s  net tax collection  in
2010 alone approached $1.9 trillion. The International Council
of Securities Associations  argues  that the costs imposed on
companies will probably “exceed any revenue benefit that the
U.S. is likely to enjoy as a result of FATCA.”  Of course, the law isn’t intended just to increase revenue.
It’s also meant as a deterrent. We applaud stricter rules to
prevent tax cheats. The IRS  estimates  the net gap between taxes
owed and taxes paid at about $345 billion annually -- decidedly
not chump change. And the agency needs some mechanism to talk to
foreign banks that have U.S. customers.  But there are plenty of steps Congress and the IRS could
take to deter  tax evasion  without FATCA’s crushing costs and
complexity.  Better Ideas  To start, Congress should stop cutting the IRS’s budget
while requiring it to do ever more onerous tasks. Nina E. Olson,
the national taxpayer advocate, identified this imbalance as the
most serious problem facing the agency in her  2011 report to
Congress . The IRS’s civil investigators should also be given
access to banks’ money-laundering information and to Treasury
Department data on financial crimes, as Lee A. Sheppard of Tax
Analysts has argued.  Second, the IRS should start conducting more -- and more
substantial -- audits of the very rich, the only people with the
means and inclination to stash their money overseas. (There’s
some evidence the IRS is  starting to do this .)  Third, Congress should enact legislation introduced by
Senator  Patrick Leahy , a Vermont Democrat, to make tax evasion a
predicate offense to money laundering. That means the act of
transferring money to evade taxes would become a crime in
itself, and it would make both parties -- the tax evader and the
bank that helped him -- potentially chargeable with a more
serious crime.  Another step Sheppard has suggested would be for Congress
to require paying agents to withhold taxes on all outbound
payments. If foreign customers want to get their money back,
they can file a U.S. tax return and prove their citizenship.
That’s a meddlesome step that we’d hesitate to endorse, but it’s
far simpler for the banks involved.  If Congress is determined to make FATCA the law of all the
world, at a minimum it should do everything in its power to
better synchronize the needed data collection with what is
required under existing  money laundering  and anti-terrorism
laws. It should streamline the paperwork required of Americans
living overseas. Most crucially, it should make the law
applicable only to new accounts.  Doing so would do nothing to penalize those already evading
their taxes. But it would make life extremely difficult for the
next generation of tax cheats while avoiding FATCA’s most
excessive requirements. Combined with the IRS’s current anti-
evasion efforts, this could be a very effective measure at far
less cost.  And it would make clear to cheaters everywhere that the
taxman’s reach is growing ever longer.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 