-- Noda’s Support Falls as LDP Calls for Japan Election Over Sales Tax Plan
-- B y   J o h n   B r i n s l e y
-- 2012-01-23T05:59:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/noda-s-support-falls-as-ldp-calls-for-japan-election-over-sales-tax-plan.html
Japanese Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s proposal to double the country’s consumption tax by 2015
faces growing public skepticism as the main opposition party
ramps up its call for elections over the issue.  Sixty percent of voters oppose the ruling  Democratic Party 
of  Japan ’s plan to raise the 5 percent tax in two stages to 10
percent, a Mainichi newspaper poll today said. Noda’s approval
rating fell to 32 percent from 38 percent last month and has
dropped 24 percentage points since September, when he became
Japan’s sixth leader in five years, the survey showed.  The decline in popularity follows the pattern of his five
predecessors, all of whom took office with more than 50 percent
approval only to see it plummet within a year. Noda is seeking
to raise revenue to shore up the social welfare system amid
discontent over a struggling economy, the world’s largest debt
and the pace of recovery from last year’s earthquake and nuclear
disaster.  “There’s a whole laundry list of things that need urgent
attention and there’s no evidence progress is being made because
of gridlock,” said  Jeff Kingston , head of the Asian Studies
program at  Temple University ’s Tokyo campus. “The honeymoon
never lasts very long. It doesn’t look good for Noda.”  Sadakazu Tanigaki, head of the  Liberal Democratic Party 
that governed Japan for half a century until ousted in 2009,
yesterday pledged to force Noda to dissolve the Lower House of
parliament this year. The LDP, which campaigned during the 2010
Upper House election on raising the consumption tax, has refused
to negotiate with Noda on the issue.  ‘Final Battle’  Tanigaki yesterday at the LDP’s annual convention called
for a “final battle” to pressure Noda into calling for a snap
election.  Neither of Japan’s biggest parties has broad public
support. The  DPJ ’s approval rating is at 17 percent, while the
LDP’s is at 16 percent, according to the Mainichi poll. The
paper surveyed 1,014 households on Jan. 21 and 22 and provided
no margin of error.  The poll came less than two weeks after Noda named former
Foreign Minister Katsuya Okada deputy premier to lead the push
to raise the  consumption tax  to 8 percent in April 2014 and 10
percent in October 2015 to help pay for soaring welfare costs as
the population ages. Nine DPJ lawmakers left the party in
revolt.  Okada yesterday rejected the suggestion that Noda should go
to the voters before working to pass the tax legislation through
parliament. The DPJ holds a majority in the lower house, while
the upper house is controlled by opposition lawmakers.  ‘No Time’  “Decisions have to be made,” Okada said on Fuji
Television. “There is no time for an election.”  Noda is the DPJ’s third prime minister since the party took
control of the government in September 2009.  Yukio Hatoyama  took
office that month with approval ratings of more than 70 percent,
then saw them plunge to below 20 percent due to a dispute with
the U.S. on whether to relocate an American military base on
Okinawa as well as financial scandals. His successor,  Naoto Kan ,
had the support of two-thirds of the electorate before
dissatisfaction over the handling of the March 11 earthquake and
subsequent nuclear disaster pushed his rating to below 20
percent as well.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Brinsley in Tokyo at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net  