-- Japan’s $130 Billion Fund Unused in Biggest M&A Year in More Than Decade
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2012-01-24T13:50:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/noda-s-130-billion-fund-goes-untapped-in-japan-s-m-a-surge.html
The biggest year for overseas
buyouts by  Japan ’s companies since at least 2000 was financed
without a single yen coming from a $130 billion program Prime
Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  set up to spur such deals.  While “multiple” companies are weighing participation in
the 10 trillion-yen fund, none have signed up, Kenji Okamura,
director of the finance ministry’s development-policy division,
said in an interview in Tokyo. He said it was too early to judge
the initiative, which ends in eight months. Japanese companies
spent $88.7 billion in overseas acquisitions last year, a record
in data compiled by Bloomberg that go back 12 years.  Businesses may be bypassing the money even as purchases
boom because of growing cash stockpiles and the need to move
more quickly than a government process would allow. The lack of
demand for the program unveiled in August underscores how
difficult it is for Noda to go beyond the more traditional means
of intervening in  currency markets  to support companies as the
yen hovers near its postwar high of 75.35 per dollar.  “Japan is still in need of a quick remedy like
intervention to erase the yen’s gains,” said  Junko Nishioka ,
chief Japan economist in Tokyo at RBS Securities Japan Ltd. and
a former  Bank of Japan  official. “There’s a chance Japan will
intervene again. Companies have little incentive to increase
 capital spending  and expand at home.”  Currency Reserves  Under the program, the state-run Japan Bank for
International Cooperation disperses funds from the country’s
foreign-exchange reserves. Authorities’ attempts to intervene to
weaken the currency have failed to curb the yen’s 8 percent
climb against the dollar in the past 12 months.  Companies in the Topix Index have 97.8 trillion yen of
cash, up from 79.5 trillion yen three years ago, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. (4502)  bought
Swiss drug-maker Nycomed last year for 9.6 billion euros in
cash, the largest overseas acquisition made by a Japanese
company that year. Toshiba Corp., Japan’s largest maker of
nuclear reactors, bolstered its stake in Westinghouse Electric
for $1.6 billion.  Companies that completed deals after the program was
announced said they didn’t want to use a facility they were
unfamiliar with.  Kirin Holdings Co. (2503) , Japan’s largest brewer by
market value, in November took full control of Brazilian beer
maker Schincariol Participacoes e Representacoes by signing a
bridge loan for about 100 billion yen from the Bank of
Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. to help finance the $1.35 billion purchase.  ‘Weren’t Sure’  “We weren’t sure how to how to use it,” Kan Yamamoto, a
Kirin spokesman, said when asked why his company didn’t tap the
program. “We understand the outline of the facility, but we
have little know-how without the existence of actual cases.”  The JBIC program offers loans at the  six-month Libor  rate,
which at around 0.34 percent is lower than financing that
companies could get with private financial institutions.  Libor, a benchmark for about $360 trillion of financial
products worldwide, is derived from a survey of banks conducted
each day on behalf of the British Bankers’ Association in
 London . The lenders are asked how much it would cost them to
borrow from each other for 15 different periods, from overnight
to one year, in currencies including dollars, euros, yen and
Swiss francs. After a predetermined number of quotes are
excluded, those remaining are averaged and published for each
currency by the BBA before noon.  Rates Drop  The loan rates Japanese banks charge have been declining as
a global slowdown weighs on corporate demand.  New loan rates 
fell 17.5 basis points in November to 1.019 percent, the lowest
since the BOJ started tracking data in October 1993.  “Cash-rich companies can finance mid-sized transactions by
themselves, utilizing bank loans,” said Kensaku Bessho,
managing director of M&A advisory group Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan
Stanley in  Tokyo . “Utilizing governmental financing may require
some sort of lengthy application process, which would be
relatively cumbersome for companies in comparison with a
commercial bank loan.”  Besides mergers and acquisitions, the JBIC program supports
exports of small and medium-sized companies and securing energy
resources, an area where it’s seen more interest. JBIC has so
far made three loans worth about $835 million to companies
involved with liquefied natural gas projects in  Australia  and
 Papua New Guinea .  Intervention Calls  Meantime, large businesses press for currency intervention,
on top of the record sales of yen the Noda administration
oversaw last year to stem appreciation. The yen traded at 77.20
per dollar at 9:11 a.m. in London.  “The facility may have a slight effect,” said Takehiko
Seike, economic policy bureau manager at Keidanren in Tokyo.
Seike said that Keidanren still hopes the government will
intervene when necessary, and that it has no position on other
measures that could tame the yen’s rise. Members including
 Nissan Motor (7201)  Corp. and  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  have announced plans to
shift operations abroad as the currency soared.  Former BOJ Deputy Governor Kazumasa Iwata in October
suggested that the central bank establish a 50 trillion yen fund
to purchase foreign debt to help weaken the yen. Iwata, who was
at the central bank from 2003-2008, also advised the government
in November to promote Samurai bonds, or debt securities sold in
Japan by foreign governments or companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  