-- Nokia Siemens Said to Fall Short With Financing
-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 2012-01-24T18:01:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/nokia-siemens-falls-short-with-1-6-billion-forward-start-loan.html
(Corrects description to accordion feature in fourth
paragraph of story published Jan. 23)  Nokia Siemens Networks raised 1.26
billion euros ($1.6 billion) of forward-start loans, less than
it originally sought, according to two people with knowledge of
the deal.  The deal was cut by about 200 million euros by the network-
equipment venture of  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and  Siemens AG (SIE)  after some lenders
pulled out citing volatility caused by the European debt crisis,
said the people, who declined to be identified because the deal
is private. The loan replaces a 2 billion-euro  credit line  and
syndication to lenders may close this week, the people said.  The facility consists of a one-year term loan of about 628
million euros, and a three-year portion for the same amount,
said the person. Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and Nordea
Bank AB coordinated the deal, the people said, and were joined
by 12 further banks in syndication including Bank of America
Corp., Citigroup Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Standard
Chartered Bank.  The company may be able to increase the loan in future
because the agreement has a so-called accordion feature,
allowing additional banks to provide funding after the deal is
signed, the people said.  Ben Roome, a London-based spokesman for Nokia Siemens,
declined to comment.  Forward-start loans, created to provide liquidity to cash-
strapped borrowers during the credit crisis, lock in financing
before debt comes due in exchange for higher fees and  interest
rates . At their peak in 2009, European issuers had $42 billion
of forward-starts outstanding, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Nokia Siemens agreed to pay an initial interest of about
350 basis points more than the euro interbank offered rate for
the 2 billion-euro deal signed in 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The deal was increased from 1.5 billion
euros after lenders offered more than it sought, Bloomberg data
show. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The company said on Nov. 23 it will eliminate 17,000 jobs
worldwide, or 23 percent of its workforce.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Morris in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  