-- Obama TV Audiences Rank Behind Bush, Clinton: BGOV Barometer
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2012-01-23T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/obama-tv-audiences-rank-behind-bush-clinton.html
President  Barack Obama , who delivers
his third State of the Union address tomorrow, has so far failed
to garner TV audiences to match the most-watched addresses by
 George W. Bush  and  Bill Clinton .  The BGOV Barometer shows live TV viewership for Obama’s
annual address to Congress has declined in each of the past two
years, according to Nielsen data. Bush had 62.1 million viewers
for his 2003 State of the Union speech just prior to the Iraq
War, more than Obama’s 52.4 million for his first remarks to
Congress in 2009. Clinton in 1993 drew 66.9 million viewers, the
biggest audience for the annual address in the last two decades.  Political polarization has led to an overall decline in
presidential speech viewing, said  Linda Fowler , a government
professor at  Dartmouth College  in Hanover,  New Hampshire . For
Obama, it would be difficult to match the audience for his first
speech to Congress in February 2009, which was boosted by
interest in the new administration and his status as the first
black president, she said.  “There was unusual interest in him as an individual and a
political phenomenon,” Fowler said in an interview. “That’s
simply waned because he’s an incumbent and his approval ratings
are down. He’s been in office for three years and the public is
feeling surly about his presidency and Washington generally.”  The Nielsen data show State of the Union speeches tend to
draw fewer watchers as a president’s term progresses, unless
there is a domestic or international crisis.  Computer, Smartphone Viewing  Still, some of the shrinkage in the television audience in
recent years may be the result of more people following the
president’s messages via computer, DVR and smartphones, said Tom Rosenstiel, director of the Pew Research Center's Project for
Excellence in Journalism in  Washington .  “Fewer people are watching this on television,”
Rosenstiel said in an interview. “These comparisons can be
complicated by the fact that there are many new ways to get
information that didn’t exist in 1993 or 2003. It’s possible for
somebody to watch this on their phone or to monitor it on their
computer.”  Obama’s 2011 State of the Union was watched live by 42.8
million viewers on ABC, CBS, Fox, NBC, Telemundo, Univision,
 CNN , Centric, CNBC, Fox News Channel and MSNBC, according to
Nielsen data. That was down 11 percent from 2010 and 18 percent
from Obama’s first address to Congress in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  