-- Obama to Submit Budget to Congress Feb. 13
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-01-23T20:12:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/obama-said-to-submit-fiscal-2013-budget-to-congress-feb-13.html
President  Barack Obama  will submit
his proposed fiscal 2013 budget to Congress on Feb. 13, an
administration official said.  The election-year proposal, a reflection of Obama’s
policies, will outline proposed revenue and spending plans for
the year that begins Oct. 1, along with deficit, inflation,
 unemployment  and economic growth forecasts.  The government posted a  deficit  of $1.3 trillion in fiscal
2011, which ended Sept. 30. That was about equal to the
shortfall in the previous year and the third-highest budget gap
as a share of the economy since 1945, according to the
nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office .  The administration was due to release the document on Feb.
6. The date was set back to leave enough time for decisions on
spending and technical details, according to the official, who
wasn’t authorized to speak publicly.  The delay isn’t expected to push back the Pentagon’s
scheduled Jan. 26 news conference to unveil portions of the
fiscal 2013  defense budget , according to two defense officials
familiar with the department’s planning. Defense accounts for
about 20 percent of the federal budget and about half the
government’s discretionary spending.  Obama’s last budget totaled $3.7 trillion. Administration
officials have said he will reprise deficit-reduction plans and
tax increases on the wealthy that have been rejected previously
by Republicans in Congress.  September Plan  The proposal to cut the deficit will be along the lines of
the $4 trillion proposal that he outlined last September, two
administration officials said earlier this month. That plan
called for $1.5 trillion in tax increases over the next decade,
including the expiration of Bush-era tax cuts for families
earning $250,000 or more a year.  Many of Obama’s tax and spending proposals were ignored or
rejected by Congress. His fiscal 2013 spending plan probably
will encounter even more resistance in an election year when the
presidency, every seat in the U.S. House and one-third of those
in the Senate will be decided.  House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin
Republican, said the delay is an “abdication of leadership” by
the president.  “This will mark the third time in four years the president
has missed his statutory requirement to present a budget on
time, while trillion-dollar budget deficits continue to mount,”
Ryan said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  