-- Obama Paying Bush II Interest Costs Neutralizes Deficit as Election Weapon
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-01-23T14:08:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/obama-paying-bush-ii-interest-costs-neutralizes-deficit-as-election-weapon.html
The U.S.  bond market  is neutralizing
budget  deficits  as an election-year campaign weapon.  Interest payments will cost the government 3.1 percent of
gross domestic product this year, according to Office of
Management and Budget and International Monetary Fund data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s down from 4.8 percent in 1991, the
highest in the past 50 years, during George H.W. Bush’s
presidency. Since 1980, the only incumbent with a lower ratio
than Barack Obama was George W. Bush in 2004.  U.S.  debt  dominated political discourse in the summer when
Tea Party-backed members of Congress including  Michele Bachmann 
balked at raising the debt limit. Treasury buyers have since
boosted demand at auctions to all-time highs while driving
yields to record lows even after  Standard & Poor’s  stripped the
country’s AAA rating. Republican presidential candidates and
moderators used the word “job” 43 times and “debt” only 11
at a debate in South Carolina on Jan. 19.  “There is very little political pressure from the bond
market because the U.S. benefits from its status as the world’s
reserve currency and safe haven,”  Jeffrey Rosenberg , the chief
investment strategist in New York for fixed-income at BlackRock
Inc., the world’s biggest money manager, said Jan. 17 in a
telephone interview.  Best Returns  This year’s borrowing cost is forecast to be lower than the
4.4 percent of GDP when Democrat  Bill Clinton  ran for re-
election in 1996 and 4.6 percent when Republican  George H.W.
Bush  ran in 1992, OMB  data  show. The $474 billion in interest
expense doesn’t include cash the government receives from
entities such as trust funds.  Concern that  Europe ’s 17-member common currency may unravel
helped drive a 9.8 percent rally in Treasuries last year, the
best return since 2008, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data. That’s helping Treasury as it sells a net $967
billion of bonds in 2012, not including Federal Reserve
purchases, according to a Jan. 6 forecast made by Credit Suisse
Group AG.  “Treasury yields are less about U.S fundamentals and more
about European sovereign risk,” said Rosenberg, who helps
oversee $3.51 trillion in assets. “That gives the U.S. a lot
more breathing room, a lot more rope, a lot more time, than say
an Italy or France or  Greece  or Portugal to fix its fiscal
problem,” he said.  Silent Vigilantes  Treasuries fell last week on signs the  U.S. economy  is
strengthening and Europe is moving closer to resolving its debt
crisis. Yields on  10-year notes  rose 16 basis points, the most
in four weeks, to 2.03 percent. The yield increased to 2.06
percent at 9:06 a.m. in  New York .  The U.S. central bank has also helped keep yields near
record lows to stimulate the economy. The Fed left its target
for overnight loans between banks in a range of zero to 0.25
percent for more than three years and increased its  holdings  of
government securities to $2.6 trillion, making it the biggest
owner of Treasuries.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  reiterated last month
that economic conditions may warrant “exceptionally low” rates
“at least” through mid-2013.  “There’s no upward pressure on bond yields for now,” said
 Ed Yardeni , president and chief investment strategist at Yardeni
Research Inc. in New York, who coined the term bond vigilantes
in 1983 for investors who protest fiscal policies by dumping
Treasuries.  ‘Great Enabler’  “The Fed has been the great enabler of the government’s
fiscal excesses,” he said in a telephone interview Jan. 16.
“The Fed’s zero interest rate and quantitative-easing policies
have squelched any protests by the bond vigilantes.”  The U.S. “is not a great investment” even as it remains
the “safest haven,” former Republican presidential candidate
Bachmann said Aug. 12 on Bloomberg Television’s Political
Capital with  Al Hunt .  “What we do need to do is dramatically shut down that
level of spending,” said Bachmann, a congresswoman from
 Minnesota  and Tea Party Caucus organizer who opposed the debt
limit increase to $15.2 trillion.  Because of the additional debt, interest expense will rise
for a third year, reaching $474 billion, OMB data show, even
after yields on Treasuries maturing in 10 years fell to 1.67
percent on Sept. 23, the lowest ever.  Federal debt held by the public may climb 8 percent to
$12.8 trillion in 2013, the OMB says. Ten-year Treasury yields
are forecast to increase to about 3 percent by the second
quarter of 2013, based on the median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  ‘Monstrous Numbers’  “These are monstrous numbers when rates begin to rise,”
Mark MacQueen, a partner at Austin, Texas-based Sage Advisory
Services Ltd., which oversees $10 billion, said Jan. 12 in a
telephone interview. “The day of reckoning is coming.”  The presidential debates show candidates focused on job
creation more than deficit cutting as they seek to make Obama
the first president since Democrat  Jimmy Carter  to be denied re-
election when unemployment is dropping.  Republican President  Ronald Reagan  overcame 7.5 percent
unemployment in his 1984 campaign, higher than the rate when he
beat his predecessor, as the jobless rate fell 2.1 percentage
points that year, the biggest decline since at least 1949.  Obama began his term with joblessness at 7.8 percent, which
peaked at 10 percent in October 2009 before falling to 8.5
percent in December.  Poll Results  Ron Paul, who has focused the most on the deficit, has
failed to overtake former Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney who
was favored by 30 percent of Republican voters in a Jan. 15-19
Gallup  poll . Former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  was second with
20 percent and Paul was tied for third with ex-Senator Rick Santorum of  Pennsylvania  at 13 percent.  Paul, a Texas congressman who has called for dismantling the
U.S. central bank, said the word “debt” nine of the 11 times
it was used in relation to federal borrowing during the
Charleston, South Carolina debate on Jan. 19, according to a
Washington Post  transcript . Gingrich defeated Romney by 12
points in the Jan. 21 South Carolina primary.  Borrowing hasn’t been an issue for the Obama
administration. Treasuries yielded an average of 1.07 percent as
of Jan. 19, less than the 3.8 percent interest rate when  George
W. Bush  ran for re-election in 2004 and compares with 6.2
percent during Clinton’s incumbency in 1996, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data show.  U.S. borrowing costs are 4.4 percentage points lower than
in 2000 when the nation had a $237 billion budget surplus.  ‘Saving Grace’  Long-term U.S. government bonds were the best performers in
the world last year, returning 29 percent, according to
Bloomberg/EFFAS indexes. Investors bid a record $3.04 for each
dollar of the $2.135 trillion of Treasury notes and bonds sold
in 2011, according to Bloomberg data. That’s higher than when
the country had budget  surpluses  from 1997 to 2002.  “People want our debt, and the  interest rates  that we have
to pay for our debt is quite low,” Herb Asher, professor
emeritus of political science at the Ohio State University, said
Jan. 18 in a telephone interview.  “That’s actually the saving grace right now,” said Asher,
who  wrote  the book “Presidential Elections and American
Politics” and is the founding director of Ohio State’s John
Glenn Institute for Public Service and Public Policy.  The U.S. credit rating was downgraded to AA+ on Aug. 5 by
New York-based S&P, which cited “brinkmanship” over the debt
limit and deficits that signaled the government was becoming
“less stable, less effective and less predictable.”  Stalemate  Each party blamed the other for the  debt limit  stalemate,
with Democrats saying Republicans wouldn’t relent on increasing
taxes and Republicans accusing Democrats of rejecting an offer
to raise revenue along with spending cuts.  The so-called supercommittee of Democrats and Republicans
charged with reducing the deficit by $1.5 trillion said Nov. 21
it had failed to find a compromise, triggering $1.2 trillion in
automatic spending cuts to take place in 2013.  “The debt problems right now are taking a backseat to the
immediate pain of joblessness,” Jeffrey Caughron, a partner at
Baker Group LP in Oklahoma City who advises community banks on
investments of more than $30 billion, said in a Jan. 20
telephone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  