-- Obama Speech to Moot Manufacturing Rebirth
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-01-24T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/obama-state-of-union-sets-table-for-campaign-against-do-nothing-congress.html
President Barack Obama tonight will
lay out what he calls a “blueprint” for revitalizing the
economy, emphasizing a rebirth for U.S. manufacturing,
bolstering domestic energy production and training workers.  In his third State of the Union address before a joint
session of Congress, Obama will focus on economic concerns in an
election-year speech that sets policy priorities as it lays out
themes for his re-election campaign.  The speech will include “the principles that President
Obama has brought to public service since he began his career in
public service,” White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said
yesterday without giving specifics. “And I’m sure that the
campaign is focused on those same ideas, because they are
working to get the president re-elected.”  While administration officials have promised the address
will include new proposals, Obama is unlikely to get major
initiatives enacted before the November election, which will
also decide control of the House and Senate. The speech is
sandwiched between the Republican presidential primary in  South
Carolina  on Jan. 21 and the Florida primary on Jan. 31.  Obama also will be constrained this year by efforts to
reduce the nation’s long-term debt. Last year’s deficit of $1.3
trillion was third-highest as a share of the economy since 1945.  The president is scheduled to deliver the televised address
at 9 p.m. Washington time. The Republican response will be
delivered by Indiana Governor  Mitch Daniels , who flirted last
year with running for president.  Little New  Douglas Holtz-Eakin , an economic policy adviser to
Republican candidate  John McCain  in 2008, said he expects Obama
will offer little new and instead “talk about the sad state of
the middle class and the Republicans’ plans are going to make it
worse.”  Obama previewed his message in a Dec. 6 speech in
Osawatomie,  Kansas , that invoked the populism of President
Theodore Roosevelt. Economic inequality has left millions of
Americans feeling that “the basic bargain that made this
country great has eroded,” he said.  That means more “fairness” is needed in the  tax code  and
in making sure that financial firms play by the same rules as
other businesses, according to Obama. More details will be in
the president’s 2013 budget, which will go to Congress Feb 13.  Republicans say they are ready for a fight.  ‘Same Old Policies’  “It sounds to me like the same old policies that we’ve
seen,” House Speaker  John Boehner  said on the “Fox News
Sunday” program on Jan. 22.  “More spending, higher taxes, more regulations -- the same
policies that haven’t helped our economy,” the Ohio Republican
said. “If that’s what the president is going to talk about
Tuesday night, I think it’s pathetic.”  Obama also will devote a section of his speech to U.S.
energy production. In a video to supporters over the weekend he
said economic growth can be “fueled by homegrown and
alternative energy sources.”  Last March he called for new incentives to boost production
of oil, natural gas and biofuels, tougher fuel-efficiency
standards for vehicles and greater reliance on cleaner sources
of energy, including nuclear power.  An Interior Department report last year the  Gulf of Mexico 
alone may have as much as 11.6 billion barrels of untapped crude
-- enough to meet U.S. demand for almost two years -- and 59.2
trillion cubic feet of natural gas. He’s also endorsed
extracting gas from shale as long as it is done in a way that is
environmentally sound.  Economic Outlook  In talking about the economy, Obama may point to signs of a
rebound.  The  unemployment rate  in December dropped to 8.5 percent, a
three-year low, and employers expanded payrolls by 200,000,
showing the job market is gaining momentum. Employers added
853,000 jobs in the second half of 2011, compared with 782,000
in the first six months. Manufacturing output climbed 0.9
percent, the biggest gain since December 2010, according to
Federal Reserve data.  Gross domestic product, the value of all goods and services
produced, rose at a 3 percent annual rate in the final three
months of 2011 after advancing 1.8 percent in the previous
quarter, according to the median forecast of 64 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News before the Commerce Department’s Jan.
27 release.  Flying West  Obama will leave the morning after the State of the Union
for a three-day trip to  Iowa ,  Arizona , Nevada, Colorado and
 Michigan , all battlegrounds in the election.  To talk about manufacturing, Obama tomorrow will stop at
Conveyor Engineering & Manufacturing in Cedar Rapids, Iowa,
which makes screw-type conveyors for moving materials such as
feed, grain and chemicals for farming and processing facilities.  Later in the day he’s scheduled to visit Chandler, Arizona,
about 20 miles (32 kilometers) southeast of Phoenix, where  Intel
Corp . has a manufacturing plant. The world’s largest chipmaker
says the facility employs 9,700 people.  Obama’s 2011 State of the Union was watched live by 42.8
million viewers on ABC, CBS, Fox, NBC, Telemundo, Univision,
 CNN , Centric, CNBC, Fox News Channel and  MSNBC , according to
Nielsen data. That was down 11 percent from 2010 and 18 percent
from Obama’s first address to Congress in 2009. He has so far
failed to garner TV audiences to match the most-watched
addresses by  George W. Bush  and  Bill Clinton .  Obama’s campaign plans to use social media to spread the
messages in his speech. The president plans an online video chat
on Jan. 30 on the White House page on Google Plus and the
whitehouse.gov website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
 Margaret Talev  in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net  