-- Ohio to Get $1.4 Billion From Development Agency’s Bond Sale
-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2012-01-23T22:18:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/ohio-will-use-1-4-billion-from-revenue-bond-sale-for-development-agency.html
A nonprofit organization created to
keep and attract jobs will lease  Ohio (STOOH1) ’s liquor-distribution
enterprise using $1.4 billion from long-term bonds backed by its
profits, said Tim Keen, the state budget director.  The state is transferring its wholesale liquor enterprise
for 25 years to JobsOhio, a private, nonprofit entity the
Legislature brought into being last year at the behest of
Republican Governor  John Kasich . Ohio doesn’t have government-
run liquor stores; it buys and distributes alcohol to retailers.  “This model that we are creating in the state of Ohio is
one that’s going to be studied across the country,” Kasich said
during a conference call with reporters today. “If we do it
right, it will be one that will be envied.”  Liquor profits averaged $221.9 million annually from fiscal
2008 to 2010, the Ohio Department of Commerce has said. The
state projects about $100 million will be available each year
for job creation and retention after debt service on new bonds,
said Mark Kvamme, JobsOhio’s interim chief investment officer.
That would be larger than similar arrangements in Michigan,
Kentucky and  California , and would be one of the biggest such
dedicated funding sources in the U.S., the  International
Economic Development Council  in  Washington  said last year.  Bond Sale Coming  JobsOhio will pay the state $500 million for the transfer
plus an estimated $750 million to pay off existing debt backed
by the liquor money and $150 million for economic revitalization
projects, Keen told reporters in a conference call today.  The agency will make additional deferred payments equal to
75 percent of all annual liquor-profit growth above 3 percent,
as well as $43 million per year to fund economic revitalization
projects, according to a fact sheet from Kasich’s office.  The agency expects to issue revenue bonds during the first
quarter, said Kvamme, a former Silicon Valley venture
capitalist. He said a final amount of the issuance is being
determined.  JobsOhio will contract with the Ohio Department of Commerce
to continue overseeing liquor distribution and with the state’s
existing development department to provide  job-creation  work,
Kvamme said.  Seeking Transparency  The new entity will have a dedicated funding source for
development projects not subject to variations in state funding
from year to year, and it and will be able to complete deals
more quickly and creatively than a state agency could, Kvamme
has said.  Critics of the arrangement, including  Good Jobs First , a
Washington-based center that tracks economic-development deals,
have said private entities that seek jobs on government’s behalf
lack accountability and transparency.  JobsOhio is led by a nine-director board appointed by
Kasich, including Bob McDonald, president and chief executive of
Cincinnati-based  Procter & Gamble Co .; Gary R. Heminger,
president and chief executive of  Marathon Petroleum Corp. (MPC) , based
in Findlay,  Ohio ; and Steven A. Davis, chief executive officer
of  Bob Evans Farms Inc. (BOBE)  in Columbus.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus  at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  