-- Oil Trades Near $100 on Speculation Iran Will Respond to European Embargo
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-01-24T08:34:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/oil-advances-a-second-day-after-europe-agrees-on-iran-crude-import-embargo.html
Oil traded near $100 a barrel in  New
York  amid concern Iran will respond to a European embargo on its
crude exports by shutting the Strait of Hormuz.  Futures rose as much as 0.6 percent, extending yesterday’s
1.3 percent gain. EU foreign ministers agreed to ban Iranian
supplies starting July 1 to pressure the country over its
nuclear program. The Persian Gulf nation has threatened to close
the Strait of Hormuz in response.  “The market is taking its breath to see what will happen
next with Iran,” said  David Lennox , an analyst at Fat Prophets
in Sydney. “You would have thought with the embargo coming out
of the  euro zone  that the oil price would have been somewhere
around $115 but it hasn’t happened.”  Crude for March delivery rose as much as 60 cents to
$100.18 a barrel and was at $99.93 at 8:22 a.m. London time. The
front-month contract settled at 99.58 yesterday, the highest
since Jan. 19. Brent oil for March settlement was at $110.87 a
barrel, up 29 cents, on the London-based ICE Futures  Europe 
exchange. The European benchmark contract’s premium to West
Texas Intermediate was at $11.06 today, compared with a record
$27.88 on Oct. 14.  The EU will freeze the assets in Europe of the Iranian
central bank as well as eight other entities and ban the trade
in gold, precious metals, diamonds and petrochemical products
from Iran, the 27-nation bloc said in a statement yesterday.
Europe is the second-biggest buyer of Iran’s oil after  China .  The Strait of Hormuz is a transit route for about a fifth
of the world’s crude, according to the U.S. Department of
Energy.  Saudi Arabia , Iran, Iraq, the United Arab Emirates,
Qatar and Kuwait ship crude and liquefied natural gas through
the channel.  Iran  will close the waterway if sanctions impede
the sale of its oil, state-run Fars news agency said yesterday,
citing Mohammad Kowsari, deputy head of the parliament’s
National Security and Foreign Policy commission.  The ban on imports was a “hasty decision” that will drive
up prices and threaten economic growth in Western countries, the
Iranian oil ministry said in a statement published on the
website of the state-run Fars news agency yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  