-- S&P 500 Index Advances for Fifth Day as Natural Gas Rebounds, Euro Climbs
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   L u   W a n g
-- 2012-01-23T21:42:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/oil-prices-euro-fall-as-europe-leaders-meet-on-budget-rules-iran-embargo.html
The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  rose
for a fifth day, led by energy shares, as natural gas rebounded
from a 10-year low and investors weighed Europe’s efforts to
tame its debt crisis The euro approached its strongest level of
2012 and Treasuries fell.  The  S&P 500  climbed 0.1 percent to close at 1,316.0 at 4 
p.m. in New York, while the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  slipped
11.66 points to 12,708.82 after earlier topping the highest 
closing level since May. Natural gas jumped 7.8 percent as 
Chesapeake Energy Corp. planned to cut production following a 
slump in prices. Oil snapped a three-day slump. The euro added
0.8 percent to $1.3032. Greek bonds rose and Italy’s 10-year 
yield reached a six-week low.  Ten-year U.S. Treasury note 
yields increased four basis points to 2.06 percent.  Germany  and France said talks between Greece and
bondholders were making progress, while a government official in
Berlin said Germany may be open to combining  Europe ’s two
bailout mechanisms and boosting their funding limit. Finance
ministers meeting in Brussels today agreed on all
aspects of the European Stability Mechanism in a deal to be
signed on Jan. 30, Martti Salmi, an aide at Finland’s  Finance
Ministry  in Helsinki, said by telephone.  “It’s been a brisk run in risk assets this year,”  Stephen Wood , who helps oversee $137.6 billion as the New York-based
chief market strategist for Russell Investments, said in a
telephone interview. “The question is: would the degree of
market movement be consistent with fundamentals? On the U.S.
side, you have an improving economy. That is competing with the
other side of the Atlantic, which is a source of volatility and
uncertainty.”  Chart Levels  The S&P 500 retreated from its strongest levels of the
session today after touching 1,322.28, near a trend-line drawn
from the index’s all-time high in 2007 and its peak last year in
April, as well as a “downtrend” connecting its May and July
highs, according to Ari Wald, a New York-based technical
strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co.  The index’s 14-day  relative strength index , which measures
the degree that gains and losses outpace each other, has stayed
above 65 since Jan. 17, matching the longest streak since
February, according to Bloomberg data. Some technical analysts
consider RSI readings above 70 a sign that stocks have climbed
too far, too fast.  “Overextended conditions leave the index vulnerable to
short-term consolidation,” Wald said in a note today.  The S&P 500 has climbed 4.6 percent in 2012, the best start
to a year since 1997, after companies from Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. to Union Pacific Corp. and EBay Inc. topped analysts’
profit  projections .  The index is up 19.7 percent from its 2011
low on Oct. 3.  Earnings Season  Earnings topped estimates at about 65 percent of the 52
companies in the S&P 500 that released results since Jan. 9,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Per-share profit has declined
9.5 percent for the group, while sales are up 0.7 percent.  Procter & Gamble Co., Travelers Cos. and Verizon
Communications Inc. lost at least 1.4 percent to lead the Dow’s
decline today.  P&G (PG) ’s drop came after the world’s largest
consumer-products company was lowered to “hold” from “buy”
at Stifel Nicolaus & Co.  Chesapeake Energy, the second-largest U.S. natural-gas
producer, rallied 6.3 percent after saying it will cut output,
idle drilling rigs and reduce spending in gas fields by 70
percent after prices for the fuel hit a 10-year low. Natural gas
for February delivery rose or 7.8 percent to $2.525 per million
British thermal units in New York.  ‘Terrified’ Two Ways  Barton Biggs , who increased bets on U.S. equities before
the S&P 500 rallied last month, said he remains bullish even
amid concerns over progress in solving Europe’s debt crisis.  “I’m terrified I’m not long enough if we’re going to have
a strong rally here, which we could,” he said during an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop” with Betty Liu today. Biggs said his net-long position in equities is 65
percent. At the same time, “I’m terrified I’m too long if the
apocalypse is coming in Europe,” he said.  Minefinders Corp. (MFN) , operator of the Dolores gold and silver
mine in  Mexico , rallied 23 percent after Pan American Silver
Corp. agreed to acquire the company for about C$1.5 billion.  Two shares gained for each that fell in the Stoxx Europe
600 Index, which rose 0.5 percent to an almost six-month high.  UniCredit SpA and  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  both jumped at least 10
percent after a report that a broad agreement on Greece’s debt
has been reached. Outokumpu Oyj surged 18 percent as Finland’s
biggest stainless-steel maker held discussions that may lead to
a merger with a unit of ThyssenKrupp AG. Cable & Wireless
Worldwide Plc rallied 34 percent.  Debt Swap  Bondholders negotiating a debt swap with Greece have made
their “maximum” offer, leaving it to the European Union and
IMF to decide whether to accept the deal, the negotiator for
private creditors said.  Charles Dallara , managing director of the Washington-based
Institute of International Finance, said he’s hopeful the EU and
IMF will agree to terms for private investor involvement in a
rescue of Greece to avert a default and collapse of the economy.  Greece will pursue talks on a debt swap with private
creditors after euro-area countries lent their support to the
effort, the Finance Ministry said in an e-mailed statement.
Finance chiefs were discussing the rescue funds, Greece’s latest
offer to bondholders, a German-inspired deficit-control treaty
and nominees to the  European Central Bank ’s board in meetings
today in Brussels.  Greek Bonds  IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said that efforts
to secure additional IMF resources of $500 billion are “on the
optimist side.” Lagarde made her comments during a panel
discussion in Berlin today.  The yield on the 10-year Greek bond dropped 59 basis points
to 33.57 percent. The German 10-year bund yield rose four basis
points to 1.97 percent as the government sold 2.54 billion euros
($3.29 billion) of 12-month bills.  Spain’s 10-year bond yield slipped three basis points to
5.46 percent, halting a three-day increase, and  Italy ’s slid 14
basis points to 6.11 percent, the lowest since Dec. 7.  Germany may be open to boosting the combined limit of its
rescue funds from 500 billion euros ($651 billion) when a
permanent fund runs alongside the temporary fund starting in
July, government officials in Berlin said.  Oil rose 1.3 percent to $99.58 a barrel, snapping a three-
day drop, after the EU agreed to ban crude imports from Iran,
raising concern over supplies in the  Middle East . The S&P GSCI
gauge of 24 commodities increased 1.1 percent.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  rose 0.5 percent, advancing
for a fifth day, the longest run of gains in seven weeks.
Markets including  China ,  South Korea  and  Taiwan  were shut today
for the Lunar New Year holiday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael P. Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net  