-- Homebuilders Get Cameron Boost With 5% Down Payments: Mortgages
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2012-01-23T17:36:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/homebuilders-get-cameron-boost-with-5-down-payments-mortgages.html
The British government’s  plan  to
help reduce down payments for new homes to as low as 5 percent
will give a boost to a homebuilding industry that’s learned how
to survive a slowing economy and four years of stingy credit.  Mortgage lending  is less than half the level of 2006, at
the end of the housing boom, with buyers now required to pay as
much as 25 percent of a home’s value up front. The program would
lower that by providing a guarantee, shared by the government
and builders, to protect lenders from some losses in a default.  U.K.  homebuilders  have cut costs, changed their products
and acquired discounted land over the past two years to improve
margins as home sales fell to about half the level of 2006.
Profit growth will likely accelerate from the down payment
program, said  Charlie Campbell , an analyst who follows  builders 
at London-based Liberum Capital.  “If mortgage lending creeps up a bit and new build
continues to take share from existing stock, profits will go up
quite a lot because the input costs have come down,” Campbell
said in a telephone interview. The government measure may lift
prices by as much as 3 percent above current estimates and boost
homebuilder shares, he said in a note to investors.  Housing construction may rise by 15 percent or more after
the measure goes into effect in the second quarter,  Taylor
Wimpey Plc (TW/)  Chief Executive Officer Pete Redfern said on Jan 17.
The same day, the company said it would meet a profit-margin
target early after home sales increased 2 percent in 2011.  Santander Sells Bonds  Lenders in the U.K. are the most active issuers of
residential mortgage-backed securities in  Europe , which banks
create by pooling home loans and selling them to investors as
notes. Public issuance of the securities climbed to 37 billion
euros ($47.8 billion) in 2011, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.
data, representing 74 percent of the overall distributed
European market. Sales started to shut down in 2007 as the
global financial crisis dried up credit, and began to revive in
2009.  Santander U.K. Plc, a unit of  Spain ’s largest bank, sold
$3.4 billion of prime mortgage-backed bonds in dollars, euros,
pounds and yen, last week, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The extra yield investors demand to hold the top-rated
securities over benchmarks widened 15 basis points or 0.15
percentage point, to 165 basis points last year, JPMorgan data
show. Spreads have narrowed from 425 basis points in January
2009.  Government Stimulus  The mortgage plan is also aimed at tackling a shortage of
new homes that’s helped  push prices  out of the range of many
buyers. Around 240,000 new homes are needed each year to keep up
with a growing population, Steve Turner, a spokesman for the
Home Builders Federation, said by e-mail. That compares with
127,780 built in  England  in 2010.  Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s coalition of Conservatives
and Liberal Democrats is using homebuilding to stimulate the
economy and create jobs as it trims public spending to cut the
country’s record budget deficit. Gross domestic product rose 0.5
percent in the third quarter from the second, when it expanded
0.1 percent, the  Office for National Statistics  said Nov. 24.  Ed Balls , treasury spokesman for the opposition  Labour
Party , criticized the scale of the government initiative,
calling it “rather small beer.” Investors weren’t convinced
either. The  Bloomberg EMEA Homebuilders (BEUHBLD)  Index fell 4.5 percent
following the Nov. 21 announcement of the lending plan.  ‘Got to Deliver’  So far, shares of homebuilders haven’t reflected the
potential profit boost from the plan, according to  Bovis Homes
Group Plc (BVS)  CEO David Ritchie.  “You’ve almost got to deliver before people believe you
can do it,” Ritchie said in a telephone interview. “I don’t
yet think people are giving the house builders the credit when
they say they are going to grow their business. They say ‘let’s
see what you do.’”  The Bloomberg EMEA Homebuilders Index gained 0.5 percent to
108.16 as of the 4:30 p.m. close of trading in London.  Redrow
Plc (RDW)  led the seven companies with a 2.7 percent increase.  Starting in the second quarter, more people seeking a new
home will be able to get a mortgage equal to 95 percent of the
property’s value as a guarantee shared by the government and the
homebuilders protects lenders from some of the losses they would
incur in a default. In July 2007, before the Northern Rock bank
collapse touched off the U.K.’s financial crisis, there were 22
mortgages available offering 110 percent of a home’s value,
according to personal finance website moneyfacts.co.uk.  Lenders Eager  “The mortgage indemnity scheme will be good news for home
buyers and developers and we are working with lenders, the
government and home builders to meet the March deadline,” Jayne
Walters, spokeswoman for the  Council of Mortgage Lenders , said
by e-mail. The program will “enable more buyers to buy and so
support the flow of new housing development, with all its
positive consequences for jobs and the economy as a whole.”  The U.K. housing market crashed between 2006 and 2007, and
sales of new and existing homes have dropped by about half since
then. In the first quarter of 2011, the most recent available,
sales totaled 32,460, down from 52,710 in the first quarter of
2007, according to the Department for Communities and Local
Government.  Tight Lending  Mortgages dried up after mounting losses and plunging asset
values forced several banks to accept U.K. government bailouts
following the credit crisis. The state ended up with a 41
percent stake in  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  after a taxpayer-
financed rescue.  Mortgage  approvals  totaled 144,000 in the three months
through September, down from 305,800 during the same period in
2006, according to the CML. Loans to first-time buyers in the
third quarter totaled 53,600, about half the level of five years
earlier.  Seven lenders, including  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Barclays Plc
and Lloyds, agreed in principle to participate in the proposal,
according to the Department for Communities and Local
Government. The homebuilders will contribute 3.5 percent of a
property’s value to an indemnity fund and the government will
add 9 percent.  “This will be a very rich channel for us to find potential
customers,”  Barratt Developments Plc (BDEV)  Chief Executive Officer
Mark Clare told analysts on a Jan. 12 conference call. He said
about 6,000 visitors to the company’s web site indicated their
interest in the program since it was announced two months ago.  Reinvented Homebuilders  Britain’s homebuilders moved away from high-volume
apartment development and focused on higher-margin single family
homes after facing hundreds of millions of pounds of writedowns
and falling sales in the aftermath of the housing collapse. The
companies took advantage of the slump by acquiring  discounted
land  to boost margins.  Taylor Wimpey said it would reach a goal of raising its
profit margin to more than 10 percent in the second half of
2011, earlier than previously forecast.  Though the 6,000 leads on Barratt’s website may translate
into only about 200 sales, the company starts the year with an
order book that’s 8.1 percent higher than a year earlier.
 Forward sales  excluding state housing increased 29.8 percent as
of Dec. 31 from a year earlier. Barratt sold 11,171 homes in the
fiscal year through June.  Persimmon (PSN) , Britain’s second-largest homebuilder by value,
rose the most in four months on Jan. 9 after saying margins
widened and 2011 profit was at the top end of analyst estimates.  First-Time Buyers  Publicly traded homebuilders, which also include  Berkeley
Group Holdings Plc (BKG) , Redrow Plc and  Bellway Plc (BWY) , have also
benefited from earlier government programs to aid first-time
buyers. Persimmon sold 600 homes, or 12 percent of the total, in
the second half through the FirstBuy program. The plan helps
buyers get cheaper mortgages with an interest-free loan from the
developer and the government.  A proposal to release government-owned land for development
may support up to 200,000 jobs, according to the Cabinet’s
Housing Strategy report.  “We will unlock the housing market, get Britain building
again, and give many more people the satisfaction and security
that comes from stepping over their own threshold,” Cameron and
Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  said in a statement announcing
the government’s housing strategy.  U.K. unemployment rose to a 16-year high in the three
months through November, deepening concerns that Britain is
heading for recession. Unemployment as measured by International
Labor Organization standards rose by 118,000 to 2.69 million,
the statistics office said Jan. 18.  “It appears at this stage that these improvements are
sustainable,” Panmure Gordon & Co. analyst Rachael Waring said
by e-mail. “The new government indemnity scheme that’s due to
be launched in March should mean that the new house builders
keep that flow of first time buyers that they need.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in  London  at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at   robprag@bloomberg.net  