-- Orange-Juice Futures Extend Rally to Record on Texas Disease, Import Probe
-- B y   Y i   T i a n
-- 2012-01-23T20:05:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/orange-juice-futures-extend-rally-to-record-on-texas-disease-import-probe.html
Orange-juice  futures surged to a
record for a second session on mounting concern that citrus-
greening disease in  Texas  and government tests for a banned
fungicide in  Brazil  may reduce U.S. supplies.  Texas confirmed a case of citrus greening last week. The
disease has damaged crops in  Florida , the world’s second-biggest
grower. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has detained juice
imports to check for carbendazim, a fungicide used on fruit in
Brazil, the top producer. Futures in New York reached an all-
time high of $2.2695 a pound.  “Fundamental news always wins,”  Michael Smith , the
president of T&K Futures & Options, Inc. in Port St. Lucie,
Florida, said in a telephone interview. “I don’t see why it
cannot hit $2.50 over the next six months.”  Orange-juice futures for March delivery climbed 4.4 percent
to close at $2.1995 at 2 p.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York .
The commodity surged 30 percent this month.  The price may ease to $1.95 in the next week or two before
moving higher, Smith said.  Temperatures in Florida and California, the nation’s top
and second-largest orange growers, will “remain above frost
levels” this week, sparing citrus groves of potentially
damaging weather, according to MDA Information Systems.  On Jan. 12, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  cut by 2
percent its forecast for Florida’s crop this season after a dry
spell curbed fruit size.  Inventories of frozen orange juice monitored by ICE have
slumped 56 percent to 29.8 million pounds (13,533 metric tons)
from a year earlier, exchange data show.  The retail cost of orange juice rose 12 percent in December
from a year earlier, according to data from the U.S. Labor
Department.  Prices at the grocery store could be 40 percent more
expensive if futures stay high, said Terry Roggensack, a founder
of the Hightower Report in  Chicago .  Cotton futures for March delivery gained 0.8 percent to
settle at 99.37 cents a pound on ICE. The fiber has risen 8.2
percent this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yi Tian in New York at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  