-- Morgan Stanley Sued by Sealink Over Mortgage Securities
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-01-23T18:54:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/morgan-stanley-sued-by-sealink-funding-over-mortgage-securities.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  was sued by Sealink
Funding Ltd., which accused the bank of fraud in connection with
more than $556 million in residential mortgage-backed
securities.  Sealink, a fund created to manage Landesbank Sachsen AG’s
riskiest assets after the German lender almost collapsed, filed
the lawsuit in New York state Supreme Court in  Manhattan  on Jan.
20.  The securities were bought between 2006 and 2007 using
information provided by Morgan Stanley, which said it had
conducted due diligence on the lenders of the mortgages on which
the investments were based and assured Sealink that the loans
met underwriting standards and deserved the AAA ratings they
were assigned, lawyers for Sealink said in a statement.  “In truth, and as Sealink and the world would only later
discover, the originators whose loans collateralized the Morgan
Stanley RMBS at issue were among the worst of the worst culprits
in the subprime lending industry,” Sealink said in the lawsuit.  Lauren Onis, a spokeswoman for Morgan Stanley, didn’t
immediately comment on the lawsuit in a telephone interview.  Sealink filed similar suits against  JPMorgan Chase & Co. 
and Bank of America’s Countrywide unit in September. Pools of
home loans securitized into bonds were a central part of the
housing bubble that helped send the U.S. into the biggest
recession since the 1930s. The housing market collapsed, and the
crisis swept up lenders and investment banks as the market for
the securities evaporated.  The case is Sealink Funding Ltd. v. Morgan Stanley,
650196/2012, New York state  Supreme Court  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  