-- Morgan Stanley’s Expanded Bonus Deferrals May Haunt Shareholders
-- B y   B r a d l e y   K e o u n   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-01-23T02:20:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/morgan-stanley-bonus-deferral-plan-may-haunt-shareholders-for-three-years.html
Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s new deferred bonus
plan will reward patience, at least for its top employees. For
shareholders of the investment bank, the costs may linger for at
least three years.  While Morgan Stanley improved profit by cutting 2011 pay
packages for senior investment bankers and traders, the bottom
line got another boost from deferring an average of 75 percent
of those payouts, up from 40 percent two years earlier, people
with knowledge of the matter said. Those  costs  may instead be
borne this year or beyond.  “It will improve the current profit picture, but it will
be an overhang on the  stock ,” said  Robert Willens , a former
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. analyst who’s now a tax consultant
in  New York . “People will realize that over a relatively short
period of time, these expenses are going to be recorded and will
depress future profits.”  Wall Street firms are under pressure from lawmakers and
regulators to defer more pay after upfront bonuses were  blamed 
for fueling the financial crisis. The overseers, including the
 Federal Reserve , say the change will discourage employees from
taking risks that pump up their current pay while hurting the
company later. The new danger is that firms in lean times will
promise packages that are hard to afford when the bill comes
due.  Morgan Stanley is following firms including UBS AG and
Credit Suisse Group AG in adopting pay practices that will push
fixed-compensation costs to future years. Banks typically don’t
disclose the percentage of deferred pay.  Morgan Stanley felt some of those effects from previous
deferrals last year. Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman  said
during a Jan. 19 conference call that the $16.4 billion of
compensation recorded in 2011 was bloated by deferred awards
from prior years.  ‘Acutely Aware’  “We are acutely aware of the impact of deferral decisions
on future periods,” Gorman, 53, told analysts on the call. Mark Lake, a Morgan Stanley spokesman, declined to say how much the
firm saved in 2011 from deferrals or how it affected net income.  On a per-employee basis, Morgan Stanley’s reported
compensation costs for 2011 averaged $264,996, more than the
$254,596 set aside the previous year. Gorman’s own pay for last
year fell 25 percent from 2010 to $10.5 million, 92 percent of
which was deferred, a person with knowledge of the matter said
last week.  Morgan Stanley, the sixth biggest  U.S. bank  by assets,
employed 61,899 people as of Dec. 31. Last year represented “a
high-water mark” as the firm had to make good on an unusually
high number of deferrals from previous years, Gorman said. “We
will have more flexibility in the years to come.”  Wall Street Rivals  The firm’s net income last year tumbled 13 percent to $4.11
billion, as the  stock  fell 44 percent. While revenue climbed 3.2
percent, the pay deferrals helped hold compensation expenses to
a 3 percent increase.  In 2009, the ratio of compensation to revenue was 62
percent. Gorman arrived in 2010, vowing to reduce the figure,
which dropped to 51 percent that year. It held steady in 2011,
helped by the deferrals. The firm’s ratio is higher than at any
of its Wall Street rivals, partly because it has a higher
proportion of retail brokers, who typically pocket about 60
percent of revenue.  Gorman told staff at a meeting in  London  this month that he
wouldn’t pay so much that it would drive the firm to a loss,
said people briefed about the remarks, who spoke on condition of
anonymity because the session was private.  ‘Extend Vesting’  Multiple goals may go into the design of a compensation
plan, such as curbing risk-taking or providing incentives for
employees to stick around, said Joseph Sorrentino, managing
director at Steven Hall & Partners. Still, managers understand
the benefit of the savings that come from deferred compensation,
said Sorrentino, whose New York-based firm advises companies and
executives on pay plans.  “Companies choose to extend vesting, and therefore they’re
taking a smaller hit in the near term,” said Sorrentino, who
doesn’t count Morgan Stanley among its clients. “But it just
pushes everything out. Eventually it catches up.”  An effort by Credit Suisse and UBS,  Switzerland ’s biggest
lenders, to defer more compensation and increase salaries,
attracted the attention of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s bank analysts
in London, who said in a June note that the firms might be less
able to cut costs if the deferred pay comes due during years
when profits are slim.  Discretionary Compensation  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  cut its 2011 compensation costs 21
percent from 2010. Chief Financial Officer David Viniar said
last week that costs of previous deferrals were unchanged and
discretionary compensation fell “significantly more” than
revenue, which dropped 26 percent.  Morgan Stanley capped the portion of 2011 cash bonuses to
be paid out early this year at $125,000 and cut pay packages for
senior investment bankers and traders by 20 percent to 30
percent, people briefed on the plans said last week.  The decision increased the average amount of pay deferred
to about 75 percent, up from an average of 60 percent in 2010
and 40 percent in 2009, the person said. Employees were notified
of their total bonuses last week.  The remainder of cash bonuses for 2011 will be paid out in
two equal installments in the final month of 2012 and 2013, a
change from the previous deferral plan that paid out in thirds
over 18 months, the person with knowledge of the plan said.
Spreading the payments over a longer time may reduce the costs
that hit in any given year. It typically takes three years for
restricted stock to fully vest.  ‘Makes Economic Sense’  The firm may be anticipating that revenue will climb faster
in coming years, making it easier to absorb the compensation
costs deferred from 2011, said Brad Hintz, a former Morgan
Stanley treasurer who’s now an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co. in New York.  “It makes economic sense to defer if management anticipates
a rebound in revenue, which allows the expenses to catch up and
deferred and current costs to be paid off without damaging
earnings and thus the share price,” Hintz said.  Deferred compensation costs in coming years will be less
than those taken in 2011, Morgan Stanley CFO Ruth Porat said in
an interview.  “That gives us more flexibility,” said Porat, 54.
“Obviously, we’ve taken out headcount, and we’re doing other
things that further create compensation capacity or
flexibility.”  Morgan Stanley’s deferral program may help to bind
employees to the firm, and there’s a chance  competitors  will
follow suit, Sorrentino said.  ‘More Glue’  “It gets some more glue on the employees, because if they
leave they’re going to leave those deferred amounts on the
table,” he said. “If they go to work for a competitor, they’re
going to forfeit those awards.”  There’s also a chance that the plan may backfire.  “It can be a recruiting tool on the other side,”
Sorrentino said. “A competitor could go to Morgan Stanley’s
employees and say, ‘Look, you only got a certain percentage of
your bonus paid out this year. All this other stuff doesn’t pay
out until later. Come join us, and we’ll make that up.’  Any departures might free Morgan Stanley from promised
payouts, said Frank Suozzo, a former head of growth financial-
services research at AllianceBernstein LP.  “There are going to be people who leave, and leave that
cash on the table,” said Suozzo, now president of advisory firm
FXS Capital LLC in Goldens Bridge, New York. In that case,
Morgan Stanley “would not be paying out as much in the future
as they would have had they paid it all in cash today.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bradley Keoun in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Rick Green  in New York at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net . 