-- Mortgage Writedowns Could Cost Taxpayers $100B
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-01-23T21:52:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/mortgage-writedowns-could-cost-taxpayers-100-billion-fhfa-says.html
Forgiving mortgage debt on  Fannie
Mae  and  Freddie Mac  loans would cost the taxpayer-funded
companies almost $100 billion, their regulator said.  The  Federal Housing Finance Agency  said that as of June 30,
the companies guaranteed nearly 3 million mortgages on single-
family homes that are underwater, or worth less than the loans
they secure.  “FHFA estimates that principal forgiveness for all of
these mortgages would require funding of almost $100 billion,”
FHFA Acting Director Edward J. DeMarco said in a Jan. 20 letter
to Representative Elijah Cummings, a Maryland Democrat who had
threatened to subpoena the information. The FHFA posted the
letter on its website today.  Nearly 80 percent of the Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
borrowers with negative equity were current on their payments,
DeMarco said.  DeMarco, whose agency was created by Congress to minimize
losses at Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and is independent of
President Barack Obama’s administration, has maintained that
principal forgiveness would increase the size of the
government’s bailout of the companies, which have cost taxpayers
more than $153 billion since they were taken under government
control in 2008.  The agency compared the cost of principal forgiveness to
the companies’ current practice of forbearance, which allows
delinquent borrowers to defer payments.  “Given that any money spent on this endeavor would
ultimately come from taxpayers and given that our analysis does
not indicate a preservation of assets for Fannie Mae and  Freddie
Mac (FMCC)  substantial enough to offset costs, an expenditure of this
nature at this time would, in my judgment, require congressional
action,” he said.  Subpoena Threat  Cummings, the top Democrat on the House Oversight and
Government Reform Committee who sought to subpoena the analysis
last week, was reviewing the letter and had no immediate
comment, said Jennifer Hoffman, Cummings’ spokeswoman.  Consumer groups, labor unions, social justice advocates and
some economists are pressuring  Washington  policymakers to force
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to do more to help homeowners dig out
of a decline in  home prices  that has cost borrowers some $7
trillion in household wealth since 2006. Helping borrowers would
save taxpayers money in the long run by minimizing defaults,
according to some analyses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Lawrence Roberts  at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 