-- Dodgers Sale May Yield Record Price While Spurring Headaches for Bud Selig
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-01-23T17:06:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/los-angeles-dodgers-sale-may-yield-record-price-future-headaches-for-mlb.html
Today’s deadline to submit initial
bids for the  Los Angeles Dodgers  may bring a record price for a
professional baseball team as a result of a process that Major
League Baseball lawyers said could set an unwelcome precedent.  The bankrupt team and owner  Frank McCourt  won concessions
from MLB, some of which are secret, that reduce the influence
Baseball Commissioner  Bud Selig  can wield over the sale process.
Selig’s office was so concerned about some of the terms that MLB
lawyers insisted they remain confidential.  At least one of the public terms, in which MLB agreed to
pre-approve bidders, will have a material, positive effect on
the auction, said bankruptcy attorney Bryan Krakauer, of the law
firm  Sidley Austin LLP (1119L) , in an interview.  “Just having an expeditious approval process from MLB will
aid the sale and it may improve the price,” said Krakauer, who
helped design the sale of the Chicago Cubs baseball team for an
MLB record of $845 million.  The concessions from Selig may encourage future buyers to
demand similar terms, because they are designed to ensure the
highest bid wins, said Marc Ganis, president of Chicago-based
industry consultant Sportscorp Ltd., in an interview.  The terms, both the public and the confidential, have
encouraged more bidders to participate, he said. The bids will
not be made public.  “It adds certainty to the process and it defines that this
will be decided based on how much somebody is willing to pay
rather than the subjective criteria that baseball has been
accused of applying in the past,” Ganis said.  Friends of Bud  “It avoids the ‘Friends of Bud’ allegation,’” Ganis said,
referring to claims that Selig has used his influence to ensure
that favored bidders win over competitors who may have offered
more.  The Dodgers may sell for $1 billion or more, the team said
in a court filing last year.  Major League Baseball  acknowledged in court papers that it
is concerned about its deal with McCourt setting a precedent for
future bidders.  “If released to the public, future purchasers of other MLB
clubs as well as other parties could attempt to use it to Major
League Baseball’s detriment,” MLB said in a Jan. 9 court
filing.  Baseball officials said the Dodgers’ sale process, and the
special rules that govern it, are unlikely to be repeated,
especially if the results don’t turn out as well as MLB would
like.  One-Time Deal  “We view this as kind of a one-time deal,” Robert Manfred Jr., MLB executive vice president of labor and human resources,
said. “We made what we regard to be relatively limited
alternations of our normal process. We don’t think it will be a
detriment to baseball.”  In addition to pre-approving bidders, MLB agreed to let a
retired  Delaware  federal judge decide any disputes about key
aspects of the sale, including who is allowed to bid.  Under a normal sale process, a team owner finds a potential
purchaser, and afterward asks MLB to approve the buyer, the
price and the terms. Details about the process governing that
approval are normally kept secret, even from the buyer.  With the Dodgers, Major League Baseball will, for the first
time, let bidders know how it will approve or reject them,
according to court documents.  “MLB has agreed to other specific confidential procedures
regarding the sale of the team and matters relating to MLB
approval of prospective purchasers,” the Dodgers said in a
court filing last month. Those procedures can be reviewed by
bidders who sign a confidentiality agreement.  Telecast Rights  The team’s most valuable asset -- its future telecast
rights -- are also covered by special terms. MLB agreed to
specify how it will apply its rules for approving telecast
agreements. That will help bidders factor in the value of those
rights when putting together their offers, Dodgers’ attorneys
have said in court.  Potential bidders for the team include Rick Caruso, the Los
Angeles real estate developer who is working with former Dodgers
and  New York  Yankees manager  Joe Torre ; hedge-fund manager  Steve Cohen  of SAC Capital Advisors LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut ; and
Mark Walter, chief executive officer of Guggenheim Partners LLC
in New York, who counts  Magic Johnson , the former Los Angeles
Lakers player and a basketball Hall of Famer, among his
partners.  The Dodgers filed a plan Jan. 20 to exit bankruptcy by
April 30 and pay all debt after concluding the auction. Dodgers
HoldCo LLC last month reported long-term liabilities of $643.9
million as of June 30. Debt owed to non-affiliated creditors is
$573 million, the Dodgers said in a disclosure statement for the
team’s reorganization plan.  Blue LandCo LLC owns the land and parking lots surrounding
Dodger Stadium. McCourt may opt to keep that land instead of
selling it, under the agreement with MLB.  Win Approval  To emerge from bankruptcy, the team must win approval for
its reorganization plan from U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Gross
in Wilmington, Delaware.  Since filing for bankruptcy in June, the Dodgers have
fought with MLB and  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Sports, which televises the
team’s games. To settle those disputes, McCourt agreed to sell
the team and the Dodgers dropped an effort to solicit separate
bids for future telecast rights.  The deadline for opening bids for the team is today and the
sale must be finished by April 30.  All of the special procedures were designed to make the
sale as objective as possible, the Dodgers said in court papers.  The rules make the team “confident that no potential
purchaser will be arbitrarily or inappropriately rejected as a
bidder,” the team said.  The case is In re Los Angeles Dodgers LLC, 11-12010,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  