-- Most Emerging Stocks Fall as Investors Await Greek Debt Deal
-- B y   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2012-01-23T10:38:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/most-emerging-stocks-fall-as-investors-await-greek-debt-deal.html
Most Emerging-market stocks fell
ahead of a meeting of European finance ministers trying to
clinch a deal on a Greek debt swap and as Spain’s economy
contracted.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  added less than 0.1 percent
to 995.80 at 9:41 a.m. in London, with 118 shares retreating and
93 rising. The  Micex Index (MICEX)  dropped 0.9 percent in Moscow and the
 ISE National 100 Index  slipped 0.2 percent in Istanbul. The  PX
Index (PX)  increased 1.3 percent in Prague as  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) 
surged as much as 7.8 percent. Markets in Shanghai and  Hong Kong 
were closed for the Chinese New Year holidays.  European Union finance ministers will meet in Brussels
later today to discuss new budget rules, a financial firewall to
protect indebted states and a Greek debt swap, with EU leaders
racing to put together a firm rescue response in the coming
weeks.  Spain ’s economy contracted 0.3 percent in the fourth
quarter after stagnating in the previous three months, the Bank
of Spain said today. A Chinese purchasing managers’ index
signaled manufacturing may contract for a third month.  “Chinese data and Greek debt will weigh on markets,”
 Chris Weafer , chief strategist at Troika Dialog in Moscow, wrote
in e-mailed comments today. “Despite the strong start to the
year for equities, especially in emerging markets, sentiment
remains very fragile and news flow very conflicted.”  The preliminary January  reading  of 48.8 for  China ’s
purchasing managers’ index, released by HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit Economics on Jan. 20, compared with a final figure of
48.7 for December. The dividing line between contraction and
expansion is 50.  Greek Talks  Bondholders negotiating the Greek swap have made their
“maximum” offer, leaving it to the EU and  International
Monetary Fund  to decide whether to accept the deal, said  Charles Dallara , who’s representing private creditors in the talks.  Shares in Erste surged in Prague as Goldman Sachs said in a
note to clients that the company’s market capitalization has
dropped to roughly equal to that of  Komercni Banka AS (KOMB) , a
“valuation abnormality” that underlines its “buy” rating.  The  BUX Index (BUX)  gained 0.4 percent in Budapest. Hungary may
obtain a loan from the International Monetary Fund and the
European Union by March or April,  Mihaly Varga , Prime Minister
Viktor Orban’s chief of staff, told TV2 in an interview today.  The BSE Sensitive Index, or  Sensex (SENSEX) , rose less than 0.1
percent in Mumbai and the  FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index (JALSH)  added
0.1 percent in Johannesburg.  The lira weakened 0.4 percent against the dollar, the rand
depreciated 0.3 percent and the ruble slipped 0.2 percent. The
ringgit strengthened 0.6 percent.  The extra  yield  investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 414 basis points, according to  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. ’s EMBI Global Index.  The  Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index  of eastern European,
Middle East and Africa credit-default swaps rose two basis
points to 329, according to data provider CMA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Webb in  London  at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  