-- OTP Bank Gains for Eighth Day on Hungary IMF Bet: Budapest Mover
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-01-23T17:02:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/otp-gains-for-eighth-day-as-imf-bets-add-to-european-bank-rally.html
OTP Bank Nyrt. (OTP) , Hungary’s largest
lender, gained for an eighth day as speculation the country will
obtain an international bailout added to a rally in the European
financial industry.  The shares advanced as much as 3.8 percent and gained 3.4
percent to 3,944 forint by the close in Budapest, extending the
jump since the close on Jan. 11 to 25 percent, the biggest
eight-day gain since August 2009. The European  Stoxx 600 Banks 
Index rose 2.1 percent today, bringing its advance in the same
eight-day period to 14 percent. Hungary’s benchmark BUX stock
rose 0.9 percent, taking its gains so far this year to 12
percent, the biggest rally in  Europe  and  Africa  so far in 2012.  Hungary may obtain a loan from the  International Monetary
Fund  and the European Union by March or April,  Mihaly Varga ,
Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s chief of staff, told TV2 in an
interview today. Orban will propose “flexible solutions” to
European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso tomorrow in
Brussels to EU objections to Hungarian laws, including on the
central bank, that have held up talks on a bailout, Varga said.  “The risk of a sovereign default has started to be priced
out of the stock,” Attila Gyurcsik, a Budapest-based equities
analyst at Concorde Securities, said in a telephone interview.
“The positive comments and the communications turnaround which
the government performed since the start of the year has helped
OTP’s stock a great deal.”  Default Swaps  The cost of insuring against default on Hungary’s debt with
credit-default swaps fell to 597 basis points from 610 on Jan.
20 and compared with a record high of 735 basis points on Jan.
5. A basis point is one hundredth of a percentage point.  Orban offered last week to change disputed legislation
after the EU threatened a lawsuit against Hungary for
encroaching on the central bank’s independence and political
meddling with the judiciary and the data-protection authority.  The forint appreciated 1.2 percent against the euro to
300.05, the strongest intraday level in a month.  European stocks climbed to a five-month high, led by a
rally in banks, as Germany and  France  said Greek debt-swap talks
are making progress.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  