-- Spurs Coach Redknapp Hid Cash in Account Named After Dog, Prosecutor Say
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-01-24T00:41:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/tottenham-manager-redknapp-faces-tax-evasion-trial-over-time-at-portsmouth.html
Tottenham manager  Harry Redknapp 
opened a “secret” bank account named after his dog to cheat
the U.K. out of taxes when he was manager at English soccer team
Portsmouth, prosecutors said at his trial.  Redknapp, 64, is on trial for tax-evasion alongside
Sheffield Wednesday owner Milan Mandaric. The charges relate to
$295,000 paid into an account in Monaco, known as Rosie 47, when
both men worked together at Portsmouth, which Mandaric owned
then. The payments were part of player-transfer fees owed to
Redknapp. The men deny the charges.  The payments were an “off-record bonus which the parties
have no intention of declaring for tax or ever did,” prosecutor
John Black said yesterday at the trial in London.  Redknapp was Portsmouth manager from 2002 to 2004 and again
from 2005 to 2008, leading the team to the F.A. Cup title in his
final season. He left for Tottenham in October 2008 and guided
the North London team to the  Champions League  in 2010. Black
described Redknapp as a talented manager and “hard-headed
businessman with considerable acumen.”  Redknapp’s contract provided him 10 percent of profits from
the sale of players while he was director of football at
Portsmouth in 2001 and 5 percent when he was named manager a
year later, Black said citing bank and contract records. He got
about 115,500 pounds ($180,000) from the 4.5 million-pound sale
of striker  Peter Crouch  to  Aston Villa . Four days later,
Redknapp flew to Monaco and opened a bank account with the
codename Rosie 47, referring to the name of one of his dogs and
the year he was born, Black said. Money was transferred from
Mandaric’s private bank account to Redknapp’s in  Monaco , the
prosecutor said.  ‘Evading the Payment’  “The money transfers to the offshore Monaco account were
deliberately and dishonestly paid by Mr. Mandaric and
deliberately and dishonestly received by Mr. Redknapp with the
intention of concealing them from U.K. tax authorities,” Black
said.  Redknapp and Mandaric sat alongside each other at Southwark
Crown Court during yesterday’s hearing. Wearing a navy suit,
tie, and thick-rimmed black glasses, the soccer coach thumbed
through the evidence file as Black described for jurors the
various overseas transactions between the men. Jurors were also
given details about an e-mail in which a banker promotes to
Redknapp’s accountant the benefits of Monaco lighter bank-
disclosure requirements as an “attraction to rich and famous.”  “It is significant that the bank account opened by Harry
Redknapp in order to receive the monies from Milan Mandaric was
in Monaco, an offshore tax haven,” Black said. “This was quite
deliberate.”  Premier League Probe  Redknapp’s Monaco account first came to light in 2006
during an inquiry by the Premier League into possible
irregularities in player trades. He told investigators Mandaric
opened it on his behalf. The account was open for about 4 1/2
years, during which time about $100,000 was also transferred to
a bank in Miami. The account was closed in 2003 and Redknapp
asked for the remaining $207,000 to be transferred to the U.K.  Judge Anthony Leonard earlier told the jury to avoid
reading the “ill-informed” and “plain-wrong” information
about the case on the Internet.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in  London  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  