-- Oversight Proposals Fall ‘Well Short,’ U.K. Lawmakers Say
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-01-23T00:15:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/oversight-proposals-fall-well-short-u-k-lawmakers-say.html
The  Bank of England ’s proposals to
enhance its governance and accountability processes fall “well
short of what is required,” according to the U.K. lawmakers
tasked to scrutinize the central bank.  “A lot is at stake,” said  Andrew Tyrie , chairman of
parliament’s Treasury Committee, which scrutinizes the budget
and administration of the central bank. “All modern
institutions review their own performance” and “in that
respect a reformed Bank of England should be no different,”
Tyrie said in an e-mailed statement today.  In response to a review of the bank’s governance by the
lawmakers, the Bank of England’s supervisory panel, known as the
Court, last week proposed the institution should set up a new
internal committee to oversee its enhanced role in financial
stability. While the bank’s acceptance of shortcomings in its
accountability practices “is a huge step forward,” on several
issues its officials have not gone far enough, Tyrie said.  The bank’s proposed remedy “falls well short of what is
required,” he said.  The Bank of England proposed that the oversight committee
would be a subcommittee of the Court, made up of bank non-
executives. Under the plan the board wouldn’t be able to comment
on what was produced in any retrospective external review of
bank decisions it commissioned, and the committee wouldn’t
undertake any internal appraisals, the lawmakers said.  “A properly reformed” supervisory board “with the duty
and authority retrospectively to examine the merits of policy
decisions is essential,” Tyrie said. “The bank has still not
properly reviewed its own role in the financial crisis.”  ‘Material Risk’  Bank of England officials have not agreed to the U.K.’s
finance minister being able to take control as soon as the bank
tells the Treasury there is a “material risk” of taxpayer
funds being required in a banking crisis, the lawmakers said.
The bank’s suggestion that this division of powers should be
contained in a Memorandum of Understanding, instead of being
enshrined in law, is another area of disagreement, they said.  Lawmakers also said the bank should consider having more
external members than internal ones on its policy committees, as
well as any supervisory board, to broaden the number of views
represented. Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  has said such
calls were a “red herring” and that having more external
members rather than internal ones on the bank’s Monetary Policy
Committee and Financial Policy Committee would mean they would
effectively be “ad-hoc” committees.  “A five to four ratio of externals would not in our view
dilute the committees in any way, nor have the consequences the
governor claims,” the lawmakers said. “A majority of externals
is a necessary and sensible precaution against groupthink.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  