-- How Eye-Gouging, Lip-Lopping Inquisition Was Modernized: Books
-- B y   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2012-01-23T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/how-eye-gouging-lip-lopping-inquisition-was-modernized-books.html
“ God’s Jury: The Inquisition
and the Making of the Modern World ” isn’t exactly a
history. As the subtitle suggests, the author,  Cullen
Murphy , is really interested in examining the dread
institution’s relation to the world we live in now. His
last book was titled “ Are We Rome? ” His new one is short,
entertaining and formidably smart.  “The late medieval world,” Murphy writes, “experienced
an information revolution of its own. Haphazard approaches
to organizational management were wrestled into something
recognizably modern.”  In other words, what made the Inquisition possible was
the rise of bureaucracy. If you wanted to catch out a
heretic in a contradiction, you needed to be able to
quickly ascertain what he’d said the last time he was
questioned, even if that was 20 years ago. “Collect,
preserve, retrieve: inquisitions depend on data storage.”  But an effective inquisition requires more than
capable administration. The other “indispensable
ingredient,” Murphy writes, is “the conviction that one is
absolutely right.” Once you’re operating under that kind of
moral certainty, “the unthinkable becomes permissible.”  If you’re fighting pure evil -- on the side of God or
democracy -- then no method is too extreme. And that’s
where torture comes in. Accordingly, there’s a lot in this
book about pain and mutilation, most of it (except for one
medieval incident of eye gouging and lip lopping) not too
unbearably graphic.  Medieval to Global  “God’s Jury” is divided into elegantly concise
chapters devoted to eras in the 700-year lifespan of the
Catholic Inquisition -- medieval, Spanish, Roman, global
(the last introduced to the New World by  Christopher
Columbus ).  Finally Murphy reaches the “secular inquisition” of
our own day, which has in fact been his theme all along.
His real interest is the inquisitorial impulse in human
nature and the institutions we create.  He demonstrates that the harassment of Catholics in
England following  Henry VIII ’s break with the Church was
the “mirror image” of what the Church was doing on the
continent, although the English victims tended to be drawn
and quartered rather than burned at the stake.  Rogue Elements  The Catholic Inquisition, moreover, was far from
lawless. It consistently tried to “codify its practices and
place restrictions on its behavior,” even if “rogue
elements” (as the  Bush administration  would later call
them) were always taking things a little further than their
superiors envisioned.  Murphy moves smoothly from Renaissance  England  to
contemporary Britain, where surveillance is as widespread
and sophisticated as it has ever been (“If you’ve got
nothing to hide,” goes the government’s motto, “you’ve got
nothing to fear”), from the Nazis to the Stasi and on to
Guantanamo Bay.  His tone is neither shocked nor, on the surface at
least, especially outraged. I imagine that’s because, as a
Catholic himself, he has absorbed the idea of original sin
and regards the fallen nature of humankind without
surprise.  He takes note of something bland and essentially
mindless about the whole enterprise he’s depicting. The
historical Inquisition was “a bureaucracy like any other,
subject to the same myopic imperatives, the same petty
ambitions and animosities, that one finds in ‘Dilbert’ or
‘The Office.’”  Murphy doesn’t cite this banality, any more than
Hannah Arendt did, to let the torturers off the hook. His
point is that we have to stay eternally on guard against
the inquisitorial argument that the greater good justifies
the smaller wrong. Since Sept. 11, as he makes clear, we
haven’t been doing such a great job.  “God’s Jury” is published by  Houghton Mifflin Harcourt (282996Q) 
in the U.S. and will be published in the U.K. by  Allen Lane (PSON) 
on Feb. 2 (310 pages, $27, 25 pounds). To buy this book in
 North America , click  here .  ( Craig Seligman  is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 