-- How to Repair a Badly Damaged Portfolio
-- B y   B e n   S t e v e r m a n
-- 2012-01-23T23:32:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/how-to-repair-a-badly-damaged-portfolio.html
     The recent recession battered Americans’ investment
portfolios, hurt their home values and cut into their incomes.
Some unlucky people suffered severely from all three.  Bloomberg.com asked leading financial advisers how they'd
handle a client hit by such severe setbacks. We constructed a
fictional, but realistic, scenario and then asked: What does
it take to get these people’s retirement dreams back on track?  We imagined a married couple, age 55. Coming out of the
recession, the couple has a combined annual income of
$200,000; a $390,000 mortgage and $20,000 in parent college
loans; and an investment portfolio of $1 million, with 55
percent in actively managed stock funds and 45 percent in bond
funds. In the past few years, their annual pay fell $100,000
after a job change and shrinking bonuses. Their investments
have lost 40 percent, hurt by poorly timed stock sales to pay
college tuition. Finally, their home has lost a third of its
value, wiping out almost all the  home equity  on their
now-$400,000 home.  Below are edited excerpts of advisers’ reactions and
suggestions:  Refinance, check costs, add stocks  1. Karen Altfest, executive vice-president at Altfest
Personal Wealth Management  If they were my clients, I’d be very concerned about
their habits. There are many, many things they have to get in
shape. They’re not prepared for their retirement. They have to
live somewhere, and yet they have just about zero equity in
their home. They are in big trouble in their spending
patterns. They don’t have an emergency fund.  I’d like to see them plan to retire at 70. Many people
live well into their 90s. If they retire at 65, $1 million to
last 30 years is not as much as it sounds.  I’d like to know if there is any opportunity to refinance
their mortgage. Since rates are so favorable right now, can
they do better? The lack of equity in their home would be a
problem for a mortgage lender, but not insurmountable.  They need to contain their costs. I hear so often: “I
don’t know where it goes.” They need to keep track of their
spending for six months, see where the money goes, and revise
their spending patterns if needed. Sometimes just pointing out
what somebody is spending will cause a wake-up call.  This is a good time to increase the stocks they own.
There are some good values out there. Everybody should have a
modest portion in  Europe , where some of the stock markets are
cheap and are going to rally over time.  The 4 Percent Solution  2. Kevin M. Peters, financial adviser at Morgan Stanley
Smith Barney  First, we’d have to get an understanding of their plans.
How much income do they think they need when they retire? We
would work backwards from whatever income number they need.
Let’s assume inflation and  interest rates  stay fairly benign
over the next several years. If so, you need to plan on
pulling out about 4 percent of retirement savings annually in
order not to dilute principal. In other words, if you have $1
million, you would be able to pull $40,000 a year from the
portfolio while still allowing it to grow 1 percent to 2
percent a year to make up for inflation.  If their mortgage rate is high, refinance and potentially
roll the college loan into the mortgage.  Mortgage loans  are
tax deductible, while consumer loans are not. If this couple
plans on staying in that house for only seven years, they
could potentially go into a 7-year, interest-only mortgage at
3.25 percent. They don’t have much equity in the house, so why
pay down principal? Conserve  cash flow  today and invest it.
They can earn more than 3 percent on their portfolio, so why
not use that leverage to their advantage? As their house
recovers in price, pay off the mortgage.  If their investments are down 40 percent, they were much
too aggressive. You want them to be able to sit through tough
markets, without making ill-timed stock sales. So you may not
be able to give them an 8 percent return over the next five
years. You might have to model a 6 percent return because they
can’t stand the volatility.  Direct deposit -- into savings  3. Diahann Lassus, president of  wealth management  firm
Lassus Wherley  They really need to totally regroup. What is it they’re
trying to accomplish? Is it more important to them that they
have the higher dollars, which means they work longer? Or is
it more important to have free time with their family, in
which case they need to cut back and spend less?  Even though they’ve lost money, they are still in a
pretty good place in terms of overall assets. For
retirement, there is no magic number you need. There is no
scientific way to figure that out. Instead, you save the
maximum you can save without killing your current
lifestyle, and you develop a diversified investment portfolio.  You start with making sure they’re maximizing
401(k)s, especially if there is employer matching. Also, have
dollars go directly into a savings account, not a checking
account. If you have cash reserves and a safety net, you don’t
have to sell investments at the worst possible time.  In terms of  asset allocation , they should have a broad
diversification that includes U.S. large-cap, U.S. small-cap
and international stock mutual funds and bond funds, along
with real estate and commodities. It’s the consistent, boring
funds -- the  index funds  and passive investment funds -- that
do well over a long period of time. It’s not trying to pick
the next hot fund.  People say, “I want an aggressive portfolio because I
want to make a lot of money fast.” But they aren’t willing to
accept the super losses they’ll get if they’re very aggressive
when the market tanks. They’re better off doing something more
moderate and middle-of-the-road. That portfolio today would be
60 percent to 70 percent in equity and 30 percent or 40
percent in bonds.
 