-- Toyota Car-Seat Supplier Says It Gained New European Client
-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i   a n d   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 2012-01-23T06:06:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/toyota-s-car-seat-supplier-says-it-gained-new-european-customer.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s main  supplier 
of car seats,  Toyota Boshoku Corp. (3116) , said the component maker won
a new customer in Europe as the company seeks to reduce its
reliance on Asia’s largest automaker. The stock rose.  The European company adds to  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) 
and  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  among clients in the region, Boshoku President
Shuhei Toyoda said in an interview at the company’s headquarters
in Kariya City, Japan today. Toyoda, who’s a relative of Toyota
President  Akio Toyoda , declined to identify the new customer or
specify details.  The move builds on Boshoku’s plans to increase its portion
of revenue from non-Toyota customers to about 10 percent by the
middle of the decade from about 7 percent now. The Japanese
company gained BMW,  Daimler AG (DAI)  and Volkswagen as clients after
last year’s acquisition of the automotive-interior business of
Austria’s  Polytec Holding AG (PYT)  for an undisclosed sum.  “It’s really important for Boshoku and all suppliers not
to rely on only Toyota,” said  Satoru Takada , a Tokyo-based auto
analyst at research firm Toward the Infinite World Inc. “This
shouldn’t result in a decrease in the sales volume to Toyota but
the company needs to diverse its customer base.”  Boshoku, which tumbled 44 percent in Tokyo trading last
year, climbed 3.6 percent to 871 yen today, the highest close in
almost seven weeks.  “Competition is very tough in Asia and other regions as
well, but we are continuously approaching possible buyers,”
Toyoda said.  Toyota Boshoku aims to limit its profit drop to 4.1 percent
in the fiscal year ending March 31, targeting net income of 11
billion yen ($143 million). The seat maker expects to profit
from its European business by next fiscal year, Toyoda said.  Separately, Toyoda said the parts maker expects a boost in
sales thanks to Japanese government subsidies and tax breaks for
purchases of fuel-efficient cars.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net ;
Masatsugu Horie in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  