-- Pandit Pariah No More as U.S. Bankers in Ascendance at Davos
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2012-01-24T17:20:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/pandit-pariah-no-more-as-u-s-bankers-gain-ascendancy-at-davos.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s Vikram Pandit,
leader of the U.S. bank that took the most government aid in the
financial crisis and that has the worst stock performance over
the past decade, is ready for a starring role at Davos.  Pandit, 55, is one of six co-chairs of the World Economic
Forum’s annual meeting in the Swiss ski resort this week, the
first from a U.S. bank since  JPMorgan Chase & Co. ’s  Jamie Dimon 
in 2008. Pandit leads a delegation that includes top officials
of five of the six biggest banks, including Dimon and  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan .  U.S. bankers come to this year’s meeting at a relative
advantage to European rivals even as all are struggling with
declining revenue, low stock prices and new regulations. The
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Financials Index  dropped 14 percent in the
past year, half as much as the 46-company  Bloomberg Europe Banks
and Financial Services Index. (BEBANKS)  European lenders are facing higher
borrowing costs and capital shortages as the future of the
region’s single currency comes under threat.  “U.S. financial institutions and banks have improved their
position relative to two or three years ago,” said Gary Parr, a
New York-based vice chairman of investment bank  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  who
specializes in advising financial companies and will be
attending the conference for the second time. European banks
“are in the midst of the sale of portfolios, assets and
businesses that could last at least a couple of years.”  Job Cuts  Banks in Western Europe announced more than 130,000 job
cuts last year, more than twice as many as firms in  North
America , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. They have
vowed to trim at least 950 billion euros ($1.2 trillion) from
their balance sheets over the next two years and are seeking to
raise an additional 114.7 billion euros of core capital by June
to meet regulators’ demands.  European lenders are more exposed than their U.S.
counterparts to losses on bonds issued by the Greek government.
Portugal’s credit rating was lowered to junk this month by S&P,
which also stripped the AAA ratings from France and Austria and
downgraded the debt of Spain and Italy.  Growth in the U.S. is outstripping that of the 17-nation
euro region, aiding banks. U.S. gross domestic product probably
grew 3 percent in the fourth quarter, according to the median
forecast of 76 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The
 International Monetary Fund  said today that the euro area may
enter a “mild recession” this year and contract 0.5 percent,
compared with 1.8 percent growth in the U.S. and 3.3 percent for
the global economy.  ‘Structural Rebuilding’  “The U.S. banks are still coming back from credit losses,
but they’ve gone through the structural rebuilding,” said  Peter Hahn , a finance professor at  London ’s Cass Business School and a
former managing director at Citigroup. “They’re not as exposed
to the restructuring of  Europe , and the economy is sounder in
the U.S.”  While U.S. firms also are trying to conserve capital to
meet regulatory targets, they may be in a position to win or buy
more business from Europe. JPMorgan’s Dimon, 55, said Jan. 13
that his bank, the largest in the U.S. by assets, bought about
$5 billion in European loans or conduits in the fourth quarter.  “Eventually there will be some people exiting some of
those things, and those who remain will probably pick up a
little share because of that,” Dimon said on a conference call
about his bank’s record 2011 earnings. He declined an interview
request through  Joe Evangelisti , a spokesman in  New York .  Gorman, Blankfein  Some European lenders are scaling back in Asia, providing
opportunities for U.S. banks that remain wary of plunging into
Europe, said Matthew Czepliewicz, a London-based analyst at
Collins Stewart Hawkpoint Plc who recommends buying shares of
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley. (MS)   “The earliest evidence we’re seeing of gains in market
share is in Asia,” he said. “U.S. banks look at Europe and see
better opportunities for them in the U.S. and Asia. They’re a
little wary of Europe.”  James Gorman, 53, chairman and CEO of Morgan Stanley, the
sixth-biggest U.S. bank by assets, will attend the annual
meeting for the first time, having succeeded Davos regular John Mack in his chairman role. Lloyd C. Blankfein, 57, Goldman
Sachs’s chairman and CEO, is skipping the meeting for the fourth
consecutive year, sending deputies including President and Chief
Operating Officer Gary D. Cohn, 51, and Vice Chairman J. Michael Evans, 54. Both banks are based in New York, and all of the
executives declined interview requests.  ‘Cure or Curse’  Citigroup’s Pandit, who refers to the benefits of his
bank’s “globality,” will speak on two panels at this year’s
annual meeting: a Jan. 25 discussion about the reshaping of the
“global financial system” and a televised session on Jan. 29
in which the meeting’s co-chairs describe the “emerging issues
for 2012,” according to the program. Last year, Pandit confined
his activities to off-the-record events such as a lunch
discussion about providing financial services to the poor.  As a co-chair, Pandit is expected to stay for the five days
of the meeting and participate in more public events than most
other CEOs who attend, said Kevin Steinberg, chief operating
officer of the forum in the U.S. Co-chairs help select subjects
for discussion at the conference, he said.  This year’s agenda also includes sessions on whether big
banks are a “cure or curse for the global economy” and the
future of the financial system.  Citigroup Earnings  Co-chairs typically are selected from among organizations
that have attended in the past and with an eye toward
geographic, industry and gender diversity, Steinberg said.  “We want to have some U.S. representation,” he said,
noting that Pandit and Facebook Inc. Chief Operating Officer
Sheryl Sandberg are co-chairs from the U.S. this year. “Some
years there will be a U.S. financial institution, and some years
there won’t be.”  Citigroup reported  fourth-quarter results  on Jan. 17 that
missed analysts’ estimates, sparking an 8.2 percent drop in the
stock price on investor concern that expenses aren’t being
reined in enough. Net income for the full year rose 6.4 percent
to $11.3 billion as fewer borrowers defaulted. Two days later
the New York-based company reported that Pandit was awarded $3.7
million in stock for his 2011 performance.  Pandit declined a request for an interview, said Shannon Bell, a spokeswoman for the bank in New York. The company’s
200th anniversary this year is a “perfect time” for Pandit to
serve as a co-chair in Davos, she said.  Wrong Message  Some of Pandit’s critics at home question whether he should
take a bigger role at Davos given his bank’s underperformance.
Shares in the lender, which received a $45 billion government
bailout during the financial crisis, have plunged 94 percent in
the past decade, the most of the 24 companies in the  KBW Bank
Index (BKX) , and 91 percent since Pandit became CEO in 2007.  “He should be spending more time on running his company
better,” said Mike Mayo, an analyst with Credit Agricole
Securities in New York who has an “underperform” rating on
Citigroup’s stock. “What kind of signal does that send that the
bank that was the worst-performing in our country over the last
decade and whose stock price is still down significantly since
he took over is the ambassador for our financial industry?”  Bank of America , the second-biggest U.S. bank, is grappling
with costs stemming from lending practices that led to the
housing market’s collapse. The Charlotte, North Carolina-based
company, which acquired subprime lender Countrywide Financial
Corp. in 2008, plunged 58 percent last year as refunds and
settlements tied to faulty mortgages mounted.  CEO Moynihan will join Carlyle Group LP co-founder David Rubenstein on a panel to discuss whether capitalism is failing
society. Moynihan, 52, also turned down an interview request
through  Larry DiRita , a spokesman for the bank.  UniCredit Absence  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , Italy’s biggest bank, whose shares fell 59
percent last year, said none of its bankers are attending the
meeting after CEO Federico Ghizzoni, 56, turned down an
invitation. UniCredit, based in Milan, will complete a 7.5
billion-euro rights offer during the Davos conference, a sale
that earlier this month sent the stock to the lowest since 1988.  Royal Bank of Scotland Plc , the U.K. government-controlled
bank, is sending two executives, after telling investors this
month that it’s cutting 4,800 jobs and planning to sell or close
its cash-equities, merger-advice, corporate broking and equity
capital markets units.  Baudouin Prot, chairman of  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) , France’s biggest
lender, will discuss the future of the euro region in a panel
discussion about what is driving decisions. For Prot, 60, the
immediate future is a period of contraction as the lender cuts
jobs and sells assets, in part to scale back businesses that
have struggled to raise financing from U.S. money markets.  ‘Closer to Home’  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , whose CEO Josef Ackermann was a co-chair
of the 2010 meeting, is seeking to sell its asset-management
units as it tries to bolster capital by 3.2 billion euros.
Ackermann, 63, will be in Davos this year, his last appearance
before he steps down as head of the Frankfurt-based bank.  “Generally, we’ll see a retreat within banking,” said
Hahn, the Cass Business School professor. “Money is staying
closer to home, and in some ways that is accelerating.”  That’s not the case at Rothschild, the family-controlled
banking dynasty led by Paris-based David de Rothschild, 69. It’s
sending North America CEOJames Lawrence to Davos for the first
time to help emphasize the firm’s deal-making capabilities
outside Europe.  Lawrence will attend in addition to Francois Henrot, the
Paris-based chairman of Rothschild’s global financial-advisory
business.  ‘Global Bank’  “We would like to portray ourselves as a global bank,”
Lawrence said in a phone interview. “Sure we have our roots in
Frankfurt in 1780, and sure we have our biggest offices in Paris
and London, but one of the reasons I’m going is to make it clear
that we’ve got a very strong presence in the U.S.”  The best-performing U.S. banks won’t be making the trek to
Davos.  Wells Fargo & Co. , the biggest U.S. bank by market value,
has never sent executives to the conference, according to  Mary Eshet , a spokeswoman for the San Francisco-based lender. She
said the firm’s focus has been elsewhere, such as completing the
integration with Charlotte-based Wachovia Corp., which it
acquired in 2008 for $12.7 billion.  ‘Country Banker’  Dick Evans, chairman and CEO of San Antonio, Texas-based
 Cullen/Frost Bankers Inc. (CFR) , has led the firm to the second-best
performance in the KBW Bank Index over the past five years and
took no money from the government during the financial crisis.
He isn’t sure he’d have much to add in Davos, though his company
has returned 26 percent to shareholders since January 2008,
compared with Pandit’s negative 88 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “An old Texas country banker, I don’t know, they probably
wouldn’t want to hear from me,” Evans, 65, said in an
interview. “I’d talk about culture and great people and stuff
like that. They like to talk about arithmetic.”  Credit Agricole’s Mayo said he doesn’t understand why
Pandit gets an audience in Davos, comparing him with an actor
who was ejected from a flight last month because, the airline
said, he was rude to the crew.  “Asking Vikram Pandit about the crisis in capitalism is
like asking Alec Baldwin about airplane etiquette,” Mayo said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Edward Evans  at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net . 