-- Patriots Are Favored by 3 Points Over Giants in NFL’s Super Bowl Contest
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-01-23T05:45:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/patriots-are-favored-by-3-points-over-giants-in-nfl-s-super-bowl-contest.html
The  New England Patriots , winners of
10 straight games, are favored by three points against the  New
York Giants  in the Super Bowl, oddsmakers said.  The  National Football League ’s Feb. 5 championship game at
Indianapolis’s Lucas Oil Stadium is a rematch of the Super Bowl
from four years ago, when the Giants upset the undefeated
Patriots as 12-point underdogs.  The Giants also weren’t favored by oddsmakers in their past
two wins this postseason, including yesterday’s 20-17 overtime
victory in San Francisco. Giants quarterback Eli Manning said it
doesn’t matter when the odds are against his team.  “Guys never quit, never have any doubts, just keep
believing, keep fighting until the very end, no matter what the
circumstances are,” Manning said last night at a news
conference. “We find ways to win.”  The oddsmakers’ favorite has won the Super Bowl 73 percent
of the time, with victories in 33 of 45 Super Bowls, according
to RJ Bell, founder of Las Vegas-based handicapping information
website  Pregame.com . This year’s three-point spread indicates
the Patriots have a 59 percent chance to win, said Bell, who
estimates that more than $10 billion will be wagered on the
Super Bowl worldwide.  New  England , which won Super Bowl titles after the 2001,
2003 and 2004 seasons, is 15-3 this season after yesterday’s
23-20 win against the  Baltimore Ravens  in the American Football
Conference championship game.  The Giants, who also have three Super Bowl victories, have
a 12-7 record this season.  The Patriots haven’t lost since Nov. 6, when they were
beaten at home by the Giants 24-20 as Manning threw a 1-yard
touchdown pass to Jake Ballard with 15 seconds remaining. The
teams combined for 31 points in the fourth quarter and three
touchdowns were scored in the final 3:03.  Losing Streak  The Giants went on a four-game losing skid after that
victory, and have since recovered by winning six of their past
seven games, including five in a row. The Giants were 2 1/2-
point underdogs yesterday in  San Francisco .  “We played them once this year and had one right down to
the wire,” Manning said. “They’ve been playing great football
of late, also. We’re going to celebrate this one, have fun and
then start preparing. Hopefully, we can continue to play our
best football.”  The Giants were underdogs in two of their three Super Bowl
wins, having also won against the  Buffalo Bills  after the 1990
season as six-point underdogs. They were three-point underdogs
against the Baltimore Ravens following the 2000 season and were
routed in that Super Bowl 34-7.  Giants coach  Tom Coughlin  said his team heads to
Indianapolis with momentum and confidence.  “We’ve had five straight single-elimination games,”
Coughlin said. “Somehow we find ways to win.”  Brady’s Record  Next they’ll face the Patriots and  Tom Brady , whose 16
postseason wins tie  Joe Montana  for the most by a quarterback in
NFL history. This will be his fifth Super Bowl appearance,
matching  John Elway  for the most among quarterbacks.  The Patriots entered the regular season as 9-2 favorites to
win the NFL championship, while the Giants were tied for 11th
among 32 teams with 25-1 odds.  “We won 10 straight games and they haven’t all been
pretty,” Brady said. “There’s really some resiliency, we’ve
shown that all season. We’re always going to fight to the end.
I’m sure this next game is going to come down to the end, and
hopefully we have enough plays.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  