-- Petroplus Stops U.K. Oil Refinery Deliveries as Shares Suspended
-- B y   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 2012-01-23T20:19:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/petroplus-stops-u-k-oil-refinery-deliveries-as-shares-suspended.html
Petroplus Holdings AG (PPHN) , the Swiss oil
refiner trying to avoid bankruptcy, was forced by lenders to
stop fuel deliveries from its U.K. plant, a local member of the
European Parliament said.  “With  Coryton (BPCOCRUD)  unable to let delivery lorries leave its
premises, it is clear this is now make or break both for the
refinery and for its parent company,” Richard Howitt, an MEP
for the east of  England , said today in a statement, citing
managers and workers at the plant. Lenders have “imposed a
condition preventing Coryton from continuing with deliveries.”  Europe ’s largest independent refiner asked for its shares
to be suspended earlier today, according to a notice on the
Swiss stock exchange. The Zug, Switzerland-based company is
fighting to avert collapse after lenders halted about $1
billion in credit lines last month, preventing crude purchases
for its five plants. Petroplus had managed to keep Coryton and
a refinery at Ingolstadt in  Germany  running at reduced capacity.  Fredrik Olsson, a Petroplus spokesman, didn’t immediately
return an e-mail and phone call seeking comment.  Petroplus said last week that it may sell refineries in
 France , Belgium and Switzerland, while continuing to operate the
plants in the U.K. and Germany. As well as trying to renegotiate
financing with its banks, Petroplus has also been talking to
companies about a crude supply deal on terms that would reduce
the cash needed to keep refineries going.  The Coryton plant, located on the Thames estuary east of
London, is capable of processing 220,000 barrels a day, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Its closure would cost about
1,000 jobs, said Howitt, a member of the Labour party.  Credit Rating Cut  Petroplus’s credit  rating  was cut by  Standard & Poor’s  for
a second time on Jan. 17. Earlier this month, the company
reached a temporary agreement with creditors to keep Coryton and
Ingolstadt in operation.  The outlook for oil refining in the next two decades is
“dire,” given excess capacity in the industry, BP Plc’s Chief
Economist  Christof Ruehl  said on Jan. 18. Other refineries in
Europe have been forced to close because overcapacity is making
it unprofitable to turn crude oil into gasoline and other fuels.  LyondellBasell Industries NV decided to close its 105,000
barrel-a-day Berre refinery in France after failing to find a
buyer. Petroplus stopped oil-processing at its Reichstett plant
in France in April and is seeking a buyer for the site as a
terminal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nidaa Bakhsh in  London  at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  