-- Petrobras’s Foster to Replace Gabrielli as Chief Executive
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d   a n d   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2012-01-23T21:08:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/petrobras-s-maria-das-gracas-foster-is-named-to-replace-gabrielli-as-chief.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , the world’s
fifth-biggest oil producer by market value, plans to replace its
chief executive officer with its natural-gas and energy chief,
Maria das Gracas Foster, as Jose Sergio Gabrielli pursues a
political career.  Foster, 58, plans to replace Gabrielli, 62. Petrobras
Chairman and Finance Minister Guido Mantega will present
Foster’s name to the board of directors of the state-run company
on Feb. 9, according to a regulatory filing today. Gabrielli is
departing to run for political office, Energy Minister Edison
Lobao told reporters today, without elaborating.  “The parts of the company she has managed have good
numbers,” said Lucas Brendler, who helps manage about 7 billion
reais ($4 billion) at Banco Geracao Futuro de Investimentos in
 Porto Alegre ,  Brazil . “Now they can focus again on delivering
targets.”  Petrobras is investing $224.7 billion in the five years
through 2015 as it taps the largest discoveries in Brazil’s
history in the so-called pre-salt region in deep waters off the
coast. Foster was the head of oil and natural gas at Brazil’s
energy ministry when President Dilma Rousseff was minister from
2003 to 2005. Rousseff took over as president in January 2011.  The nomination of Foster, who ran Petrobras’s fuel
distribution unit before heading the gas and energy division,
will benefit the company at a time output growth has missed
targets, Bradesco analyst Auro Rozenbaum said in an interview.  ‘Presidential Connections’  “She is a politically strong figure, connected to the
president,” Rozenbaum said in a telephone interview from  Rio de
Janeiro . “Without a doubt, because of her technical profile for
a company like Petrobras it may end up having some advantages.”  “She’s a good option because she is a career official at
Petrobras,”  Adriano Pires , the head of the Rio de Janeiro-based
Brazilian Center for infrastructure, said in a telephone
interview from Rio de Janeiro. “It’s been a long time since
Petrobras had a president who came from the company.”  Gabrielli, who began working at Petrobras in 2003 as chief
financial officer and was promoted to chief executive officer in
2005, was a “political appointment” and had little experience
in the oil industry, Pires said. Foster’s promotion follows
Rousseff’s move to replace officials who were appointed by
former president  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva , he said.  Management Changes?  “As part of this policy of ministerial changes, changes at
Petrobras are being made,” Pires said.  Petrobras didn’t mention any other management changes in
the statement.  Bahia state governor Jaques Wagner has invited Gabrielli to
join his government, an official at the governor’s press office,
who declined to be named because of internal policies, said in a
telephone interview. Gabrielli is from Bahia.  Foster has a degree in chemical engineering from the
Universidade Federal Fluminense, and advanced degrees in
chemical engineering and nuclear engineering from the
Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro. She also has a master’s
of business administration from the Fundacao Getulio Vargas.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  PetroChina Co Ltd. (857)  are the world’s
first- and second-biggest oil producers by market value.  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and the world’s third- and
fourth-largest producers.  Petrobras rose 3.8 percent to 25.13 reais in  Sao Paulo . The
stock has climbed 17 percent this year, more than the 10 percent
gain in Brazil’s benchmark Bovespa index.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net ;
Rodrigo Orihuela in Rio de Janeiro at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Carlos Caminada at 
 ccaminada1@bloomberg.net  