-- Poet, Royal DSM Create Joint Venture to Make Cellulosic Ethanol
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2012-01-23T21:32:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/poet-and-dsm-create-joint-venture-for-cellulosic-ethanol.html
Poet LLC, the largest U.S. corn-
based ethanol producer by installed capacity, established a
joint venture with  Royal DSM NV (DSM)  to produce cellulosic ethanol
and license the technology to other plants in the U.S. and
globally.  The companies will each own 50 percent of the joint
venture, named Poet-DSM Advanced Biofuels LLC, Poet said today
in a statement. Its headquarters will be in  Sioux Falls ,  South
Dakota , where closely held Poet is based.  The venture will let Poet build one of the first cellulosic
ethanol plants in the U.S. and decline a $105 million U.S. loan
guarantee. Wider adoption of the technology is needed for  oil
companies  to meet federal requirements to blend 16 billion
gallons (61 billion liters) of the fuel with gasoline by 2022,
said Chief Executive Officer Jeff Broin.  “We have the raw material to make it happen,” Broin said
today on a conference call with reporters. “There’s more than
one billion tons of biomass available every year in the U.S.
that could be used to produce enough cellulosic ethanol to
replace a third of America’s gasoline.”  Initial capital expenditure by the venture will be $250
million, which will be invested in Poet’s Project Liberty
facility in Emmetsburg,  Iowa . The funding makes it unnecessary
for Poet to take advantage of the $105 million loan guarantee
the U.S. Energy Department offered in September, and it will be
declined before any funds are drawn, Broin said.  Project Liberty  The Emmetsburg plant is expected to begin production in the
second half of 2013 and will convert corn cobs and other crop
residue into 25 million gallons of ethanol a year. The venture
intends to deploy the technology at Poet’s 26 other U.S. corn
ethanol plants and license the technology to other producers
globally.  DSM is contributing its enzyme and yeast technologies,
which complement Poet’s processes and make the company “an
excellent strategic partner,” Broin said.  The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency estimates that as
many as 400 new biorefineries must be built by 2022 in order to
produce the  16 billion gallons  of cellulosic biofuel required
under the agency’s  regulations , Poet said.  As much as 1 billion gallons of cellulosic ethanol could be
produced annually at Poet’s 27 plants if the technology is
deployed at all of them, according to the statement.  ‘Quick Build-Out’  “I think you’ll see a pretty quick build-out of the
cellulosic industry once it’s proven,” Broin said. “I think
the dollars will be available, and I think this product will be
very important to our country becoming more independent from
foreign sources of oil.”  DSM and POET expect the venture to be profitable in 2014
and to deliver “substantial revenues” and an “above-average”
contribution to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization in the medium to longer term.  Based on Project Liberty’s expected initial capacity of 20
million gallons, and current average prices, annual sales may
reach $100 million, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Feike Sijbesma of Heerlen, Netherlands-based DSM told reporters on the
call.  Sales may grow by another $100 million or more depending on
licensing deals, he said.  Prices for ethanol have dropped 30 percent from the 2011
high of $3.068 a gallon on the Chicago Board of Trade. Poet’s
cost to make its cellulosic fuel is “just under $3” now, Broin
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  