-- Police Use of GPS Devices to Track People Limited by U.S. Supreme Court
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-01-23T22:05:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/police-use-of-gps-devices-to-track-suspects-cars-limited-by-supreme-court.html
The U.S. Supreme Court for the first
time limited police power to track people using GPS devices,
ruling in a case that will shape the  privacy rights  Americans
should expect from a new generation of wireless electronics.  Today’s decision addresses the unprecedented power that
technology is giving police to peer into Americans’ day-to-day
activities. The ruling, which centered on a global-positioning
system device officers attached to a drug suspect’s car, may
also affect mobile phones and other technologies.  The decision means that police in many cases will need a
warrant to track suspects using GPS, even as the court’s divided
reasoning left the exact parameters of that constitutional
requirement unclear. The justices unanimously overturned the
conviction of Antoine Jones, who was found guilty of running a
narcotics trafficking operation out of his nightclub in
Washington. They splintered into three camps in their reasoning.  “Law enforcement is now on notice that almost any use of
GPS electronic surveillance of a citizen’s movement will be
legally questionable unless a warrant is obtained in advance,”
said Walter Dellinger, a  Washington  lawyer who represented Jones
in the case.  Five justices faulted police for the act of attaching the
GPS to Jones’ car. Writing for the group, Justice  Antonin Scalia  
said officers, who lacked a valid warrant, “encroached on a
protected area,” when they “physically occupied private
property for the purpose of obtaining information.”  Sweeping Reasoning  Other justices used more sweeping reasoning, saying police
might violate the constitutional ban on unreasonable searches
even when they obtain GPS signals without having to attach a
device. Justice  Sonia Sotomayor  said that “with increasing
regularity,” the government will be able to track suspects “by
enlisting factory- or owner-installed vehicle tracking devices
or GPS-enabled smartphones.”  “Awareness that the government may be watching chills
associational and expressive freedoms,” Sotomayor wrote. “And
the government’s unrestrained power to assemble data that reveal
private aspects of identity is susceptible to abuse.”  In another concurring opinion, Justice  Samuel Alito  and
three other justices said the pivotal question might be the
length of time officers use GPS monitoring without a warrant. In
the Jones case, officers used the device for four weeks.  ‘Probable Cause’  “We need not identify with precision the point at which
the tracking of this vehicle became a search, for the line was
surely crossed before the four-week mark,” Alito wrote.  Together, the three opinions marked a rejection of the
Obama administration’s bid for broad power to use GPS signals.
The administration urged the high court not to require a warrant
for GPS use, calling it a minimally intrusive step that yields
important results in drug and terrorism cases.  The  Justice Department  didn’t have an immediate comment on
ruling, said  Tracy Schmaler , a department spokeswoman, in an e-
mail.  To obtain a warrant, officers must show a judge that they
have “probable cause” to believe the search will lead to
evidence of a crime.  The case split the court along unusual lines. Chief Justice
 John Roberts  and Justices Anthony Kennedy,  Clarence Thomas  and
Sotomayor signed Scalia’s majority opinion. Justices Stephen Breyer,  Ruth Bader Ginsburg  and  Elena Kagan  joined Alito’s
opinion.  Intrusion by Government  Both Scalia and Alito sounded cautionary notes, each saying
he was limiting his opinion to particular issues and
circumstances. The ruling left some privacy advocates saying
they wished the court had done more.  “We are concerned it doesn’t go far enough and will not
address newer, growing geo-location tracking via cell phones,”
said Ed Black, president of the Computer & Communications
Industry Association in Washington, which represents technology
companies including  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Facebook Inc.  Sotomayor was bolder, calling for a re-examination of
previous rulings that say people shouldn’t expect privacy in
information they voluntary disclose to third parties. She called
those rulings “ill-suited to the digital age,” in which people
create a record of the phone numbers they dial or text, the
websites they visit and the items they buy online.  “I for one doubt that people would accept without
complaint the warrantless disclosure to the government of a list
of every website they had visited in the last week, or month, or
year,” Sotomayor wrote.  ‘Highly Artificial’  The divide between Scalia and Alito turned less on the
outcome of the Jones case than the mode of analysis. Scalia said
the  Fourth Amendment  was historically tied to the law of
trespass and a physical intrusion by government agents.  Alito called that reasoning “highly artificial,” arguing
the court decided decades ago that a physical intrusion wasn’t
required for a Fourth Amendment violation. Alito pointed to more
modern decisions that focus on a person’s “reasonable
expectation of privacy.”  Alito also suggested that Congress and the states consider
enacting statutes to regulate GPS use for  law enforcement .  “In circumstances involving dramatic technological change,
the best solution to privacy concerns may be legislative,” he
wrote.  Senator Pat Leahy, the chairman of the Senate Judiciary
Committee, is pressing a measure that would update federal
privacy laws. The Vermont Democrat in a statement called the
high court ruling “a victory for privacy rights and for civil
liberties in the digital age.”  Stash House  In the Jones case, the GPS device was placed in the car
while it was in a Maryland parking lot. The device was one facet
of an investigation by local and federal authorities that also
included visual surveillance and a wiretap on Jones’s mobile
phone.  Investigators eventually tied Jones, now 51, to a suspected
drug stash house. Jones was arrested and convicted in federal
court of conspiracy to distribute cocaine. He was serving a life
sentence.  The  Supreme Court  in 1983 upheld the use of a beeper placed
on a car to track a suspect during a single trip. The question
in the latest case was whether the Constitution’s Fourth
Amendment lets police use GPS devices continuously over longer
periods without first going to a judge. Lower courts were
divided on the issue.  The case is  United States  v. Jones, 10-1259.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  