-- Polly Peck Ex-CEO Nadir Accused at Trial of $233 Million Theft
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-01-23T13:38:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/polly-peck-ex-ceo-nadir-accused-at-trial-of-233-million-theft.html
Asil Nadir, the former Polly Peck
International Plc chief executive who fled Britain in 1993
following claims of fraud, was accused at a trial in  London  of
stealing 150 million pounds ($233.4 million) from the company.  The amount, revealed by prosecutors on the first day of a
four-month trial in London, is more than four times the figure
cited by the  Serious Fraud Office  since the case began nearly
two decades ago. Nadir, 70, and associates withdrew the money
from the now-defunct electronics and food-packaging firm’s U.K.
bank accounts and funneled it through companies in  Switzerland 
and the Bahamas between 1987 and 1990, prosecutors said.  Nadir “wielded very considerable power” over the
company’s operations and management, prosecutor Philip Shears
said at London’s Old Bailey criminal court. “We say he abused
that power and helped himself to tens of millions of pounds of
PPI’s money.”  When London-based Polly Peck collapsed in 1990, its
administrators found more than 700 million pounds owed to
creditors was unrecoverable from units of the company, which
Nadir built up during the 1980s by expanding into areas such as
electronics, hotels and an acquisition of the  Del Monte (DLM)  fruit
brand. Nadir agreed to return to the U.K. in 2010 to face fraud
claims nearly 20 years after fleeing.  The SFO accused Nadir of 13 counts of theft totaling about
34 million pounds, using a selection of “sample” transfers.
Nadir denies the charges.  Secret Share Purchases  Prosecutors said Nadir stole from the company’s accounts at
National Westminster Bank Plc and Midland Bank Plc through at
least 70 transfers, and that the money was used to secretly buy
shares in Polly Peck and other companies. He is also accused of
using the money to repay loans, make payments to Nadir family
trusts and pay companies controlled by himself and his mother.  Nadir returned to London from Turkish-controlled  Northern
Cyprus  in August 2010 to face trial, a month after a U.K. judge
said that if Nadir did so he would be granted bail. He agreed to
be fitted with an electronic security tag and to remain in the
capital. The former executive was also ordered to comply with a
curfew and check-in weekly at a police station.  While his lawyers had sought to have the trial earlier, a
judge said it was unrealistic for the prosecution to be expected
to re-compile a 17-year-old case on short notice. His lawyers
later complained a senior U.K. prosecutor leaked information to
the press. The SFO has denied that claim.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  