-- Posen Says BOE to Expand QE Again If Forecasts Justify It
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-01-24T08:12:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/posen-says-boe-to-vote-for-qe-next-month-if-forecasts-justify-it.html
Bank of England  policy maker  Adam Posen  said officials will increase their bond-purchase target
next month if new forecasts for growth and inflation justify
expanding stimulus again.  “If we choose to do more in February, which we may or may
not, but if we choose to do more in February, it’ll be because
the forecast demands it,” Posen told reporters at an event in
 Nottingham ,  England , late yesterday.  While the Bank of England’s nine-member Monetary Policy
Committee left the target for bond purchases at 275 billion
pounds ($428 billion) this month, some officials have said more
so-called  quantitative easing  may be needed. The central bank,
which last expanded stimulus in October with a program that is
due to be completed early next month, will have new forecasts at
its policy meeting in February.  Posen also said that “things are a little better than in
October,” when the central bank announced the 75 billion-pound
expansion of QE, its first such move since 2009.  There are “material ways in which at least downside risks
have materially reduced,” he said. Still, “that’s not a huge
recovery forecast and that’s not a forecast for inflation
above” the bank’s 2 percent target.  The pound was little changed against the dollar and traded
at $1.5562 as of 8:02 a.m. in London. Gilts were also little
changed, with the 10-year yield at 2.16 percent. The yield fell
to 1.917 on Jan. 18, the lowest since Bloomberg began compiling
the data in 1989.  GDP Data  Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  is scheduled to speak
in Brighton, England at 8 p.m. today.  The central bank will tomorrow publish the minutes of the
January meeting, revealing how the MPC voted. The  Office for
National Statistics  will release the first estimate of fourth-
quarter  gross-domestic-product data  at the same time. Economists
in a Bloomberg News survey forecast a 0.1 percent contraction,
based on the median of 33 estimates.  Posen said the Bank of England’s resumption of bond
purchases had made “a material difference in putting a floor
under things,” while the  European Central Bank ’s efforts to
avoid a credit crunch also helped. Other factors that helped to
boost the outlook since October are “good news” on the global
economy outside  Europe  and funding markets not seizing up as
much as they had done in 2008.  Inflation Forecast  The policy maker said that if the parts of the U.K. economy
that have not lost as much labor as expected during the
recession, such as the financial industry, do so in the next few
years, “ inflation  will be coming down in the next couple of
years and unemployment will unfortunately likely rise some over
the next couple of years, but not hugely.”  “If that is our forecast, the MPC is right to have done
quantitative easing to try to get us from having inflation be
too low and employment too low in two to three years’ time, and
the committee is right to consider, as we will be doing in a few
weeks, whether we need to do more,” he said.  Posen also said MPC members did not consider the speed of
bond purchases as more important than the total stock.  “In terms of pace, it’s not really something the committee
is talking about,” he said. “It’s primarily about ‘What’s the
right number, and secondarily, operationally -- subject to
getting the right number out there -- how do we not screw up the
markets and the Debt Management Office?’ Pace does not really
come up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  