-- Post-Dispatch Owner Lee Enterprises Wins Approval of Bankruptcy Exit Plan
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2012-01-23T21:03:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/post-dispatch-owner-lee-enterprises-wins-approval-of-bankruptcy-exit-plan.html
Lee Enterprises Inc. (LEE)  (LEE), the owner of
the St. Louis Post-Dispatch and 47 other daily U.S. newspapers,
won court approval of a restructuring plan that spares
shareholders from being wiped out and sets it on the path to
exit bankruptcy by the end of the month.  At a hearing today in Wilmington,  Delaware , U.S. Bankruptcy
Judge Kevin Gross approved a so-called prepackaged
reorganization that restructures almost $1 billion in long-term
debt.  The plan is “fundamentally a restructuring of its long-
term indebtedness” that didn’t attract a single vote in
opposition from creditors allowed to weigh in, said Kenneth P.
Kansa, a lawyer for the Davenport, Iowa-based company.  The company anticipates officially exiting bankruptcy
protection on Jan. 30, Kansa said after the hearing.  Under the plan, equity holders will retain their interests
in the company and won’t be wiped out as is typical in most
bankruptcies, according to court papers. Unsecured creditors
will be unaffected by the restructuring as well.  Lenders, owed about $855.8 million, will convert some debt
into a new $689.5 million first-lien secured  term loan ,
according to court documents. The lenders can also convert a
portion of their claims into part of a new $175 million second-
lien facility and 15 percent of the reorganized company’s
equity. The loans would mature in 2015.  Goldman Sachs  Some lenders, including Goldman Sachs Lending Partners LLC,
Mutual Quest Fund, Monarch Master Funding Ltd., Mudrick
Distressed Opportunity Fund Global LP and Blackwell Partners
LLC, already agreed to acquire as much as $166.3 million of the
second-lien loan.  The holders of about $127.6 million of so-called Pulitzer
notes will get new notes with maturity extended to 2015,
according to the proposal. The company said it estimates the
notes will total about $126.4 million when issued.  The company’s $40 million in bankruptcy financing will be
converted into a revolving exit facility under the plan.  Lee sought  bankruptcy protection  last month after waning
demand for advertising led to a three-year decline in revenue
and after an out-of-court restructuring failed, according to
court papers. The company listed $1.2 billion in assets and
$1.3 billion in debt.  The newspaper publisher acquired Pulitzer Inc. in 2005 to
gain control of the Post-Dispatch. Founded in 1890, Lee has a
daily circulation of about 1.3 million, according to court
documents. In addition to the 48 daily newspapers, Lee has 300
specialty publications and interests in four other dailies.  The case is In re Lee Enterprises Inc., 11-13918,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 