-- Private Equity’s Public Subsidy Is a Tragedy: William D. Cohan
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 2012-01-23T00:00:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/private-equity-s-public-subsidy-is-a-tragedy-william-d-cohan.html
The real reason that private equity
executives need to be full taxpayers -- paying 35 percent of
their income in federal  tax  as opposed to the 15 percent
capital-gains rate they have enjoyed for years -- is not
because, generally speaking, they make so much money.  Nor is it because the return they get on what personal
capital they risk is dwarfed by the profits they get on their
investors’ capital.  Nor is it so they will pay the same tax rates as their
secretaries (although this is a good reason, too).  No, the real reason the tax loophole for private equity
mavens must be closed once and for all is that American
taxpayers subsidize the private-equity industry -- and its
outsize paychecks -- and simple fairness demands that they don’t
also get an additional break in the form of lower tax rates.  Mitt Romney, the co-founder of Bain Capital LLC and the
leading contender for the Republican presidential nomination,
got blindingly rich because of this taxpayer subsidy, and it
isn’t right that he and his cohort can also pay taxes at a 20-
percentage-point discount compared with the rest of us.  Here is how the subsidy works: The  Internal Revenue Service 
allows for the tax-deductibility of interest expense on
corporate debt. Since corporate debt is the mother’s milk of a
leveraged buyout, there would be no private-equity/LBO industry
without this huge tax benefit. Indeed, anyone who has used an
Excel spreadsheet to model a leveraged-buyout -- you know who
you are! -- knows that the magic of the entire industry depends
almost solely on the interest-expense provision in the tax code.  Loading Up Debt  By loading up a company with debt and then deducting the
resulting interest expense, tax payments are generally wiped
out, allowing the remaining “free cash flow” to be used to pay
down the debt taken on to buy the company in the first place.
Given that  tax revenue  is necessary for the government to
function, this means the rest of us provide a subsidy that
allows the private-equity firms to thrive.  If the company a private-equity firm invests in does well,
the original borrowed money is paid down, interest expense is
reduced and profits slowly but surely rise, creating equity
value for the private-equity investor. Over time, if the company
is performing well enough to pay off its debt load and show net
income, it will either be sold outright, taken public through an
initial public offering or re-leveraged to allow the private-
equity firm to take out a hefty dividend and begin the process
of financial alchemy all over again.  This is the moment when the private-equity practitioners
really ring the cash register (not to minimize the importance of
the annual fees also paid to them by investors, generally
amounting to 2 percent of the money under management and which
can add up to hundreds of millions of dollars per year, spread
among a relatively few people). In most cases, the private-
equity firms take 20 percent of the increase in equity value
between when they bought the company and when it is sold. (In
Bain’s case, it can be 30 percent because for a while investors
were clamoring to be in its funds.)  Fine enough: This seems to be the industry’s convention,
savvy investors have agreed to the arrangement time and time
again, and undoubtedly many companies that might have failed
have been turned around (while many others haven’t).  The problem is that, having used the  tax code  to create the
financial magic in the first place, the people working at these
firms and sharing in the equity payoff then get the additional
benefit of paying tax on their profits -- which are called
“carried interest” -- at a 15 percent rate rather than 35
percent.  Fighting the Inevitable  This nifty tax treatment can add up to considerable wealth.
Come to think of it, I can’t name a single partner of a major
private equity firm I know who doesn’t live in the most lavish
way. Many --  Steve Schwarzman  of Blackstone Group LP,  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts  of KKR & Co.,  David Rubenstein  of the
 Carlyle Group LP (CG)  and  David Bonderman  of TPG Capital LP -- are
among the wealthiest people in the country. This isn’t meant as
criticism -- what they have been doing is not illegal or
unethical, it’s actually quite brilliant. Rather, I think it’s a
statement that the industry must stop fighting the inevitable.  The tax rate on carried interest must be raised to 35
percent on the profits that come to private-equity partners from
their investors’ capital. The gravy train for private-equity
partners has gone on for three decades. It has been a great
party, but -- as the Bloomberg View editors have also made clear
-- it’s time to take the punch bowl away. The private-equity
moguls know it. The American people know it. Even  Mitt Romney 
knows it, despite sheepishly admitting that why, yes, his
federal tax rate has been around 15 percent lately, come to
think of it.  It is simply illogical, and unfair, for the IRS to give
private equity two major benefits, one for their businesses and
one for their wallets, while the rest of us pay much higher
federal tax rates with nary any comparable subsidies at all.  (William D. Cohan, a former investment banker and the
author of “Money and Power: How Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the
World,” is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more online opinion from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 