-- Put Fannie and Freddie on Federal Books: Papagianis and Swagel
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a p a g i a n i s   a n d   P h i l l i p   L .   S w a g e l
-- 2012-01-23T00:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/put-fannie-and-freddie-on-federal-books-papagianis-and-swagel.html
When Congress voted on Dec. 23 to
fund a temporary extension of the payroll-tax holiday in part by
requiring  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  to increase their fees, it
effectively ended the fiction that the two mortgage-financing
giants are part of the private sector.  Lawmakers should now recognize budgetary reality and put
the firms’ liabilities on the government balance sheet and
include their spending in the federal budget. The purpose of
doing so shouldn’t be to keep the firms as part of the
government, however. Rather, it should be to motivate reform
that leads to a housing system driven by private capital.  When Fannie and Freddie -- known as government-sponsored
enterprises -- were put in conservatorship as their finances
deteriorated in September 2008, officials didn’t put them on the
budget. Adding their roughly $1.5 trillion in debt and $3.5
trillion in mortgage guarantees to the gross  U.S. debt  might
have raised questions about the country’s financial stability
and exacerbated the financial crisis then under way (even though
the $5 trillion of liabilities were matched by nearly as much in
assets). And conservatorship was only intended to be temporary.  Three years later, with the government now using the firms
as cash cows to pay for activities unrelated to housing -- and
with everyone from the president to Congress to the  Federal
Reserve  looking to dictate their refinancing standards and other
activities -- the White House’s assertion that Fannie and
Freddie aren’t government agencies is no longer tenable.  Two Problems  Increasing the fees that Fannie and Freddie charge banks
for guaranteeing a mortgage against a default is wise policy --
over the long term. The fees were too low relative to what the
private sector would charge, and the government should be
adequately compensated for the risk it takes by standing behind
the loans. But the recent fee increase creates two problems.  First, the new revenue isn’t part of a plan that returns
housing finance to the private sector or winds down Fannie and
Freddie. Instead, it will be used to pay for new  government
spending . It would be more appropriate to first pay back the
more than $130 billion it has already cost taxpayers to bail out
Fannie and Freddie.  Second, raising the fees acts like a tax on homeownership
that runs counter to other government efforts. This is because
banks pass along the higher guarantee fees to borrowers in the
form of higher  mortgage rates  -- thus making it more expensive
to buy a home. The irony is that President  Barack Obama  just
this fall sought to use Fannie and Freddie to make homeownership
more affordable -- and to boost refinancing -- by strong-arming
them into reducing the fees they charge to cover mortgages made
to relatively risky borrowers.  In other words, the White House is trying to use the firms
to make housing cheaper, even while the president has signed
legislation that will have the unintended result of making
housing more expensive. It’s hard to imagine a better example of
schizophrenic policy making.  The increased guarantee fees shouldn’t work as an ad hoc
money grab, but as part of a larger plan to get the government
to step back from guaranteeing nearly all U.S. mortgages. The
goal should be to allow the private sector to take on housing
risk and figure out which homeowners can handle a loan.  This plan would involve several initial steps: 1) require
private capital to take losses ahead of the government
guarantee; 2) narrow the scope of mortgages eligible for a
government guarantee by taking into account loan size and
income; and 3) decrease the quantity of government insurance
offered. Higher guarantee fees should be part of this reform.  A Clear Framework  These changes will take place over time, so it’s important
for the government to announce a clear framework and timetable
at the outset so home buyers,  sellers  and the suppliers of
capital can adjust.  Reform efforts to date have focused on privatizing Fannie
and Freddie. This is certainly a worthwhile goal, but it’s
unlikely to happen any time soon, especially if the firms remain
in their current state as off-balance-sheet sources of revenue
for  government spending . The longer we wait for the perfect
piece of legislation, or for the ideal political dynamics, the
longer Fannie and Freddie can be used for disjointed policy
purposes.  It is far better to move forward with incremental reforms
to ensure that the government’s role in insuring mortgages
declines over time and to encourage private capital to start
investing in housing without a full government guarantee.  Putting Fannie and Freddie on the federal budget should be
the first step toward broader reform. Explicit recognition of
the costs of taxpayer support for housing -- and of the mortgage
debt that taxpayers guarantee -- could help bring together
Republicans and Democrats who share an interest in fiscal
responsibility. And it would make clearer the taxpayer benefits
that go along with steadily shrinking the volume and scope of
mortgages that the government insures.  More than 90 percent of new mortgages are now guaranteed by
government agencies. With these enterprises honestly accounted
for on the federal balance sheet, the incentives will finally be
aligned to start shifting housing finance to the private sector.  (Christopher Papagianis is managing director of
Economics21, a nonpartisan policy-research institute. He was a
special assistant for domestic policy to President  George W.
Bush . Phillip L. Swagel is a professor at the  University of
Maryland  School of Public Policy. He was assistant secretary for
economic policy at the Treasury Department from 2006 to 2009.
The opinions expressed are their own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writers of this article:
Christopher Papagianis at  papagianis@economics21.org  and Phillip L. Swagel at  pswagel@umd.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 