-- Senator Rand Paul Stopped at Nashville Airport, TSA Says
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2012-01-23T22:46:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/rand-paul-stopped-at-nashville-airport-tsa-says.html
U.S. Senator  Rand Paul  triggered an
alarm during an airport security check and was escorted out of
the screening area by police after refusing to submit to a
patdown, the  Transportation Security Administration  said.  Paul was attempting to clear security to get to a flight in
Nashville,  Tennessee . A routine screening of the  Kentucky 
Republican showed an anomaly and the senator refused to go
through a patdown, as required by security procedures, according
to an e-mailed TSA statement. Paul was not detained, the agency
said.  “When an irregularity is found during the TSA screening
process, it must be resolved prior to allowing a passenger to
proceed,” TSA spokesman Greg Soule said in an e-mail.
“Passengers who refuse to complete the screening process cannot
be granted access to the secure area in order to ensure the
safety of others traveling.”  Paul, in an interview on CNN, said he was told the airport
scanner spotted something on his knee. TSA screeners wouldn’t
examine his knee and insisted on a full patdown, saying people
aren’t allowed to immediately go through the scanner again, he
said.  Paul said he was permitted to go through screening again
after spending 90 minutes with TSA officials. The senator said
it’s the first time he’s encountered a security issue at the
airport, which is about 70 miles from his home in  Bowling Green ,
Kentucky.  Pistole Conversation  Paul said he asked Transportation Security Administrator
John Pistole today that adults be given the option of immediate
rescreening instead of a patdown, and told him that local
airport officials should be given more discretion to expedite
security for known frequent fliers.  “Either the machines are inadequate, or they’re not
telling us the whole story,” Paul said on CNN. “I feel our
dignity is being compromised, but I don’t feel more safe.”  Soule, the TSA spokesman, didn’t immediately respond to a
request for comment about Paul’s description of the incident or
his conversation with Pistole.  A member of the  Senate Homeland Security and Governmental
Affairs Committee , Paul has criticized TSA screening policies.
At a hearing last June, Paul asked Pistole about a patdown of a
6-year-old girl as an aide displayed an enlarged photograph of
the search.  “You’re doing invasive searches on six-year-olds,” Paul
said. “It makes me think you’re clueless.”  The agency has since altered search procedures for
children.  Ron Paul   U.S. Representative Ron Paul, the presidential candidate
and father of the senator, today reiterated a pledge to
eliminate the TSA, after first reporting the incident involving
his son on his Twitter account and  Facebook page .  “The police state in this country is growing out of
control,” Paul, a Texas Republican, said in a statement. “One
of the ultimate embodiments of this is the TSA that gropes and
grabs our children, our seniors and our loved ones.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  