-- Treasuries Fall for 4th Day Amid Optimism on Europe Sovereign-Debt Crisis
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   A u s t e n   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-01-23T22:14:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/treasuries-fall-fourth-day-before-eu-finance-ministers-meet-on-debt-crisis.html
Treasury 10-year notes fell for a
fourth day as speculation European Union finance ministers will
make progress to resolve the region’s sovereign-debt crisis
reduced demand for the safest securities.  Longer-maturity debt led losses after French Finance
Minister  Francois Baroin  said in Paris that negotiations between
 Greece  and its private creditors were making “tangible
progress.” Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan, primary
dealers that trade directly with the  Federal Reserve ,
recommended selling Treasuries amid better U.S. Data and
improving sentiment in Europe.  “The wall of worry in Europe on sovereign financing has
been stemmed some and the domestic economic data has been
better, which is weighing on Treasuries,” said Russ Certo, a
managing director and co-head of rates trading at Gleacher &
Company in New York. “The market is still in a wait-and-see
mode as the fundamental problems in Europe have not been
adequately addressed. But, for now, there is some calming.”  The 10-year yield rose three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, 2.05 percent at 5 p.m. in  New York , according
to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2 percent note due November
2021 dropped 7/32, or $2.19 per $1,000 face amount, to 99 17/32.
The yield fell earlier as much as three basis points.  The  30-year  bond yield climbed three basis points to 3.13
percent, after falling three basis points to 3.07 percent. The
two-year  yield  fell one basis point to 0.23 percent before the
U.S. auctions similar-maturity securities tomorrow.  The  difference  between two- and 10-year yields was 1.82
percentage points today, the most since Dec. 9.  ‘Financial Firewalls’  EU finance ministers met to discuss new budget rules, a
plan to protect indebted states and the Greek debt swap.  Germany 
floated the idea of combining Europe’s two rescue funds, in a
concession to bolster the fight against the fiscal crisis as
Greece bargained with bondholders over debt relief.  “It’s essential that we will be able to reinforce our
financial firewalls,” EU Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn  told reporters before the meeting in
Brussels.  The Fed starts a two-day policy meeting tomorrow after
which it will provide forecasts for the benchmark  interest rate 
for the first time.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  left its target for
overnight loans between banks in a range of zero to 0.25 percent
last month and reiterated that economic conditions may warrant
“exceptionally low” rates “at least” through mid-2013.  ‘Caring Less’  “Treasury market investors seem to be caring less and less
about Europe’s problems given the lack of negative headlines
that the market had grown accustomed to, and this is weighing on
Treasuries,” said  Dan Greenhaus , chief global strategist at
BTIG LLC in New York. “There is clearly a bias toward the
upside in yields, though any selloff will be moderate given the
uncertainty around the Federal Reserve meeting this week.”  The Fed is seeking to keep longer-term borrowing costs
capped by selling $400 billion of its short-term Treasuries and
reinvesting the proceeds into longer-term government debt in a
program traders have dubbed Operation Twist.  The central bank bought $1.746 billion of Treasuries due
from 2022 to 2031 today as part of the program.  Goldman Sachs recommended selling Treasury 10-year futures
expiring in March, citing an “improvement in industrial
activity.”  ‘Mildly Bearish’  Investors should bet the 10-year note future drops to 126
and exit the trade if the price increases to 132, Francesco Garzarelli, co-head of fixed-income strategy in  London , wrote in
an e-mailed message today. The yield on the benchmark 10-year
Treasury note may advance to 2.25 percent to 2.50 percent,
Garzarelli wrote.  JPMorgan said it turned “mildly bearish” on Treasuries as
funding conditions in  Europe  improve. The firm raised its first-
quarter estimate for 10-year note yields to 2.25 percent,
according to a research report dated Jan. 20.  The Treasury will sell $99 billion of notes this week,
starting with $35 billion of two-year securities tomorrow, then
$35 billion in five-year debt the following day and $29 billion
of seven-year notes on Jan. 26.  The two-year notes yielded 0.25 percent in pre-auction
trading, compared with 0.24 percent at the previous sale Dec.
19, the lowest since August. Investors bid for 3.45 times the
amount for sale last month, down from 4.07 times in November.  Interest payments will cost the government 3.1 percent of
gross domestic product this year, according to Office of
Management and Budget and International Monetary Fund data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s down from 4.8 percent in 1991, the
highest in the past 50 years, during  George H.W. Bush ’s
presidency. Since 1980, the only incumbent with a lower ratio
than  Barack Obama  was  George W. Bush  in 2004.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  