-- Treasuries Rise, Snap Three-Day Drop, as Greece Investors Debate Debt Swap
-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2012-01-23T09:48:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/treasuries-rise-snap-three-day-drop-as-greece-investors-debate-debt-swap.html
Treasuries rose, snapping a three-
day decline, as investors sought safer assets with  Greece  and
its private creditors struggling to reach agreement on the terms
of a debt-swap deal.  Long-maturity  bonds  led gains after  Charles Dallara , who’s
representing private creditors, said bondholders negotiating a
debt swap with Greece have made their “maximum” offer, leaving
it to the European Union and International Monetary Fund to
decide whether to accept the deal. Treasuries also advanced
before the  Federal Reserve  starts a two-day meeting tomorrow
after which it will provide forecasts for the benchmark  interest
rate  for the first time.  “The safe-haven bid for Treasuries has returned, albeit
mildly, as the Greek private-sector involvement talks failed to
reach agreement this weekend,” said  Peter Chatwell , a fixed-
income strategist at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank
in  London . “We now have to deal with the uncertainty over the
agreement itself, and the possibility that even with agreement
with the Institute of International Finance, other creditors may
still be unwilling to participate.”  The 10-year yield fell two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 2.01 percent at 9:46 a.m. in London, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2 percent note due November
2021 rose 5/32, or $1.56 per $1,000 face amount, to 99 29/32.
The 30-year yield dropped one basis point to 3.09 percent.  The two-year  yield  was little changed at 0.23 percent
before the U.S. auctions the maturity tomorrow. Financial
markets in Asian nations such as  China ,  Hong Kong ,  Singapore ,
and  South Korea  are shut today the Lunar New Year holiday.  Greece Deal  Dallara, managing director of the Washington-based IIF,
told Athens-based Antenna TV that he’s hopeful the EU and IMF
will agree to terms for private investor involvement in a rescue
of Greece. He declined to elaborate on the terms discussed in
talks that resumed Jan. 18 and remained inconclusive as EU
finance ministers prepared to meet in Brussels today.  “The important issue is how many investors will be
participating in an agreement” with Greece, said Hideo Shimomura, chief fund investor in  Tokyo  at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset
Management Co., a unit of  Japan ’s biggest bank. “The flight to
quality into Treasuries will not fade.”  Treasury 10-year yields may remain in a range from 1.7
percent to 2.1 percent, said Shimomura, adding that investors
should consider buying bonds while yields are near 2 percent.  The Fed last week released blank templates showing the
format of its forecasts for the benchmark rate, which will be
provided to the public for the first time on Jan. 25. It will
offer two charts along with the forecasts, according to a
statement released on Jan. 20.  Fed Forecasts  The  difference  between two- and 10-year yields was 1.77
percentage points today after widening to as much as 1.79
percentage points on Jan. 20, the most since Dec. 13.  “We expect the steepening to continue,” Anshul Pradhan
and Vivek Shukla, strategists at Barclays Plc, wrote in a note
to clients dated Jan. 20. “There is still scope for fed fund
expectations for the next few years to be revised lower.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee  left its target for
overnight loans between banks in a range of zero to 0.25 percent
last month and reiterated that economic conditions may warrant
“exceptionally low” rates “at least” through mid-2013.  Operation Twist  The Fed is seeking to keep longer-term borrowing costs
capped by selling $400 billion of its short-term Treasuries and
reinvesting the proceeds into longer-term government debt in a
program traders dubbed Operation Twist.  The central bank is scheduled to buy as much as $2 billion
of Treasuries due from 2022 to 2031 today as part of the
program, according to the New York Fed’s  website .  The Treasury will sell $99 billion of notes this week
starting with $35 billion of two-year securities tomorrow, $35
billion in five-year debt the following day, and $29 billion of
seven-year notes on Jan. 26.  The two-year notes yielded 0.24 percent in pre-auction
trading, in line with 0.24 percent at the previous sale Dec. 19,
the lowest since August. Investors bid for 3.45 times the amount
on offer last month, down from 4.07 times in November.  Interest payments will cost the government 3.1 percent of
gross domestic product this year, according to Office of
Management and Budget and  International Monetary Fund  data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s down from 4.8 percent in 1991, the
highest in the past 50 years, during George H.W. Bush’s
presidency. Since 1980, the only incumbent with a lower ratio
than  Barack Obama  was  George W. Bush  in 2004.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
Keith Jenkins in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  