-- RIM’s New CEO Seen as Unlikely to Halt Market-Share Slide
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f   a n d   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-01-24T21:22:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/rim-s-new-ceo-unlikely-to-halt-market-share-slide-analysts.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  fell again
after investors and analysts speculated that new Chief Executive
Officer Thorsten Heins may be unable to alter the BlackBerry
maker’s course enough to stem market-share losses.  Heins, 54, was promoted from chief operating officer of the
Waterloo, Ontario-based company Jan. 22, replacing Co-CEOs Jim Balsillie and  Mike Lazaridis . RIM slid 3.5 percent to $15.01 at
the close in  New York , after falling 8.5 percent yesterday. The
 stock  has lost 76 percent in the past 12 months.  “There was enormous pressure for the company to make a
change, and Jim and Mike wanted to make as little change as
possible,”  Charlie Wolf , a Needham & Co. analyst, said in an
interview yesterday. “To me, this change looks largely
cosmetic.”  Balsillie and Lazaridis have come under criticism as  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  have pulled ahead in U.S. smartphone sales,
a market RIM once dominated. In the three months ended in
November, RIM’s share fell to 16.6 percent while devices using
Google’s Android operating system rose to 46.9 percent and Apple
increased to 28.7 percent, according to ComScore Inc.  RIM’s  revenue  declined in last year’s second and third
quarters, while net income dropped in each of the first three
periods. The company is expected to report decreases for both
for the final three months, according to analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Heins, who came to the company in 2007 after more than 20
years at Siemens AG, told investors on a conference call
yesterday that he doesn’t see a need for “drastic change.”  “Jim and Mike’s strategy of not sacrificing long-term
value for short-term gain is the right one,” Heins said. “I
share that value.”  ‘Same Cloth’  Lazaridis and Balsillie, while giving up their posts as co-
chairmen, remain on the  board . As directors, they will continue
to heavily influence Heins’s decisions, Wolf said.  “He’s cut from the same cloth as the co-CEOs,”  Mike Abramsky , an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in Toronto, said in
an interview. “The visibility for the stock remains very low.”
He rates the shares “sector perform.”  Historically, only an appointment of an outsider has helped
companies recover, Edward Snyder, an analyst at Charter Equity
Research, said in a note to investors.  “There has never been a successful turnaround of a handset
OEM without a wholesale change in management,” said Snyder,
referring to original equipment manufacturers.  Turnarounds Take Years  Just three of seven turnaround attempts by phone makers
since 1997 have succeeded, and none took fewer than three years
from the naming of a new CEO, said Snyder, who is based in  San
Francisco .  “Consequently, even if Heins is free to pursue a new
strategy, we can’t expect a sustained, material improvement in
 RIM results  for many quarters,” he said.  The pressure for a turnaround and the continued decline in
the  share price  may still result in RIM being acquired and a
short tenure for Heins as CEO, said Marty Wolf, president of
Martin Wolf LLC, a mergers-and-acquisitions advisory firm in  San
Ramon ,  California .  “People are voting with their feet,” he said in an
interview. “It’s clear to me the company can’t stay
independent. The longer the new CEO operates the business with
the current mandate, the more value he will destroy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland, Oregon, at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net ;
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  