-- RIM Falls After Co-CEOs Replaced With Insider to Answer Challenge by Apple
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z   a n d   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-01-23T21:51:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/rim-replaces-ceos-as-it-struggles-to-answer-apple.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  fell after
replacing co-Chief Executive Officers Jim Balsillie and  Mike Lazaridis  with an insider who said he sees no need for radical
change as the company struggles to compete with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   Thorsten Heins, a chief operating officer who joined RIM
four years ago from Siemens AG, will replace the pair in the CEO
post effective immediately, RIM said in a statement. Director
Barbara Stymiest will take over as chairman, as the two also
cede their co-chairmen positions. Lazaridis, who founded RIM in
1984, will become vice chairman; Balsillie will remain a board
member without any operational role.  Balsillie and Lazaridis showed little sign of being able to
stop Apple and Google Inc.’s gains as the Silicon Valley
companies remade the mobile-computing market with devices such
as the iPhone and iPad. Waterloo, Ontario-based RIM’s stock
 tumbled  75 percent last year as sales slumped, and the two men,
both 50, drew investor criticism for releasing products without
the features necessary to compete.  RIM fell 8.5 percent to $15.56 at the close, the biggest
drop in a month, after Heins told investors on a conference call
that no “drastic change” is needed. Shares had rallied as much
as 7.6 percent in early trading before the call.  “Heins is a product execution guy, he’s not a visionary,”
said  Ehud Gelblum , a New York-based analyst at Morgan Stanley.
“Heins has to give people a reason why they need a BlackBerry.
It’s going to be very difficult for him.”  Plunging Sales  RIM, once the most valuable company in Canada, has lost 89
percent since its peak in 2008, when soaring BlackBerry sales
pushed its market value to more than $80 billion. Last quarter,
 sales  fell about 6 percent to $5.17 billion.  Lazaridis, Balsillie and Stymiest all said the decision to
step down was the men’s own and not a response to outside
pressure. The shift is a result of the company’s evolution and
the introduction of new technologies that will give RIM more
competitive products, Lazaridis said.  “This marks the beginning of a  new era  for RIM,” he said
in an interview. “It was a bit of bumpy ride. We’ve done it as
best we could. Thorsten is the ideal choice. He has the right
skills at the right time.”  RIM’s share of the global smartphone market sank to 11
percent in the third quarter from 15 percent a year earlier,
according to research firm Gartner Inc., stung by customer
defections to the iPhone, and handsets that use  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
Android software, including Samsung Electronics Co.’s Galaxy.  ‘Leaderless Company’  The company faced a Jan. 31 deadline to report the findings
of a review of its management structure. RIM agreed to the
review to fend off an effort to overhaul management by investor
 Northwest & Ethical Investments LP , which had proposed the
company split the chairman and CEO roles.  “RIM had its era, but now it seems very hard to gain back
market share in the smartphone market even if the top managers
are changed,” said  Mitsushige Akino , who oversees about $600
million in  Tokyo  at Ichiyoshi Investment Management Co. “The
iPhone and Android are well established in the market.”  Still, other investors led by  Jaguar Financial Corp. (JFC)  kept
pushing for leadership changes and called for RIM to divide into
separate companies, seek a merger or sell itself. Investors
owning 8 percent of RIM supported the effort, Jaguar has said.  Takeover Approaches  RIM is hurt by “management dominance and a lack of board
oversight, which leads to a leaderless company,” Jaguar CEO Vic Alboini said in October. “The timing is very ripe now for a new
CEO to step in.”  Speculation that the drop in RIM’s value will lead to
takeover approaches drove the company’s stock to one-day gains
of at least 5 percent more than 10 times since the beginning of
August. RIM didn’t put itself up for sale or consider a sale,
according to a person familiar with the matter, who couldn’t
comment for attribution because the information isn’t public.
Tenille Kennedy, a spokeswoman for RIM, said the company’s
policy is not to comment on rumors or speculation.  RIM’s market-share slump in the past two years was driven
by the U.S., where consumers were quick to adopt Apple and
Android devices. RIM, which dominated the U.S. smartphone market
before Apple and Google entered it, had its share of sales  drop 
to 16.6 percent in the three months ending in November,
according to ComScore Inc. Google’s Android boosted its share to
46.9 percent and Apple increased to 28.7 percent.  ‘Secular Loser’  The BlackBerry, which gained popularity among bankers,
lawyers, executives and politicians for its reliability, has
also began losing its hold of the corporate market as more
companies allow workers to use iPhones and Android handsets.  The BlackBerry is “a secular loser to Apple and Android
devices,” Ittai Kidron, an analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. in  New
York , told investors in a note last month. There are few signs
RIM can recover as “execution issues remain a drag,” he said.  As the U.S. market evolved, RIM decided to place more
emphasis on growing  international sales , Balsillie said in an
interview. While sales in  Asia  and  Latin America  rose, they
weren’t enough to offset the slump in  North America , resulting
in RIM’s first revenue drop years in nine years in September.  “The biggest dilemma was the U.S. market went down the
path of mobile high-end computing on a 4G platform, and our
products were suited for a global marketplace,” Balsillie said.
“The greatest dilemma was resources and capacities, where do
you put them. We couldn’t do both.”  Former Siemens Manager  “They’re going to have to run fast,” Rene Schuster, CEO
of Telefonica SA’s German unit, said in an interview in Munich.
“They have a good brand. The question is: are they now able to
bring new innovation to the market so that when a consumer looks
at the choice they’re going to pick RIM? It’s going to be a
challenge for them.”  With Heins, 54, RIM is banking on an executive who has
remained largely in Balsillie’s and Lazaridis’s shadow. In July,
he was named to the enlarged position of chief operating officer
for product and sales, overseeing engineering, hardware and
software.  In an interview, Heins cited RIM’s 75 million  subscribers ,
“strong balance sheet” and negligible debt as advantages. He
said the company’s focus on its own software will yield results
in the long term. About 18 months ago, the company considered
and decided against adopting another operating system, he said.  “Jim and Mike’s strategy of not sacrificing long-term
value for short-term gain is the right one,” said Heins, who
worked at Siemens for more than 20 years before joining RIM. “I
share that value.”  Product Delays  RIM’s strategy of relying on its own software mimics that
of Apple. Other handset makers, such as Samsung, HTC Corp. and
 Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. (MMI) , have boosted sales by using the
Android software Google gives away for free.  Last year’s promotion of Heins, a German national
originally from Munich, was part of a plan to accelerate product
development. Still, the company’s missteps since have included
delays with a new operating system the company is betting on to
challenge Apple and Google. In December, RIM said the first
BlackBerrys based on the new system, called BB10, won’t be
available until the latter part of this year.  The company also suffered a nine-month delay in getting e-
mail onto the PlayBook tablet. The technical difficulties and
marketing missteps have left PlayBook shipments at a little more
than 1 percent of those for Apple’s market-leading iPad.  Heins’s challenge isn’t just fighting Apple and the
Android-camp led by Google, which dominate the smartphone and
tablet markets. He will also need to fend off competition from
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , which is working with carriers such as AT&T
Inc. and device manufacturers including  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  to gain ground
in the smartphone market.  RIM’s PlayBook meanwhile is now just one of dozens of
tablets seeking to gain share from Apple’s iPad.  Amazon.com
Inc. (AMZN) ’s newest such device hit store shelves on Nov. 14 and
quickly surpassed more-established tablets from Samsung
Electronics Co. and Barnes & Noble Inc.  Lazaridis founded RIM when he was a senior at the
University of Waterloo in Canada. The company began working on
wireless products three years later, developing a pager that
evolved into what is known as the BlackBerry. Balsillie, a 1989
graduate of  Harvard Business School , joined RIM in 1992.  ‘Here to Fight’  In addition to his vice-chairman role, Lazaridis will run
 the board ’s innovation committee. He said he will work closely
with Heins and provide strategic counsel.  Lazaridis also said he plans to boost his RIM stake by $50
million. Balsillie said he will remain a significant
shareholder. They each  own  about 5 percent of the company now.  Stymiest, a former Royal Bank of  Canada  executive, became a
RIM director in 2007. She previously was a partner at Ernst &
Young LLP and chief financial officer of BMO Nesbitt Burns Inc.
RIM will also name Fairfax Financial Holdings Inc. CEO Prem Watsa a director, bringing the number of board members to 11.  As part of the overhaul, Heins said he will also seek a new
marketing chief for the company. Balsillie had taken over the
those duties after RIM’s first marketing chief, Keith Pardy,
left in March, less than two years after joining the company.  “We are in a competitive world, but we believe in our own
strength,” Heins said. “I’m here to fight.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net ;
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  