-- RIM’s ‘Quant-Jock’ Balsillie Steps Down After 20 Years as Chief Executive
-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 2012-01-23T15:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/rim-s-quant-jock-balsillie-steps-down-after-20-years-as-chief-executive.html
As recently as five weeks ago,  Jim Balsillie , who helped build  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  into
 Canada ’s biggest company by market value, was showing no signs
that he was about to step aside as investors pushed for
management changes at the BlackBerry maker.  “We are more committed than ever to addressing the issues
at hand,” Balsillie told analysts on a Dec. 15 conference call.  That all changed today, when the Harvard University
business graduate announced he’s leaving the firm he joined 20
years ago, giving up his roles as co-chairman and co-chief
executive officer as the smartphone maker loses market share to
Apple Inc. and Google Inc. devices.  Mike Lazaridis , who founded
RIM in 1984, is also surrendering his CEO and chairman roles.  “There comes a time in the growth of every successful
company when it’s time for the leaders to pass the baton,”
Lazaridis said in an interview. “Jim and I went to the board
and we told them we think the time is now.”  While Lazaridis will stay on as vice chairman and head of
an innovation unit at RIM, Balsillie will have no operational
role and will remain a director after heading the business,
finance and strategy areas for two decades at the Waterloo,
Ontario-based firm.  “I remain a significant shareholder and a director and, of
course, they will have my full support,” Balsillie said in a
statement.  RIM fell 7 percent to $15.99 in 9:57 a.m. trading in
Toronto.  The native of Seaforth, Ontario, who grew up in the
Canadian university town of Peterborough, Balsillie, 50, trained
as an accountant and joined RIM in 1992. During his tenure, the
company all but created a new industry that transformed business
communication, only to see competitors like Apple take most of
its market share when the technology spread to consumers.  NHL Team Dream  While sharing the chief executive officer post with RIM co-
founder Lazaridis, Balsillie developed a reputation for
combativeness. His refusal to compromise cost the company
hundreds of millions of dollars in a legal fight against patent-
owner NTP Inc. and derailed his dream of owning a National
Hockey League team. This year, it led to a shareholder revolt as
he declined to step aside while RIM’s  share price plunged .  “I’m the quant-jock from Peterborough who never quits,”
Balsillie  told students  at Waterloo’s Wilfrid Laurier University
in 2009. “You create this frame, this way of seeing things, and
it manifests in everything you do.”  Lazaridis and Balsillie governed RIM in a unique
arrangement as co-chairmen and co-CEOs. Lazaridis, who dropped
out of the University of Waterloo after starting RIM in 1984,
handled technology development while Balsillie took charge of
the business side.  Revenue Soars  RIM, formerly a maker of equipment such as radio modems,
introduced the BlackBerry in 1999. The “two-way pager,” as the
company called it at the time, proved a hit among Wall Street
workers and gained widespread attention when BlackBerry service
provided an alternative to jammed cellphone networks during the
terrorist attacks in  New York  on Sept. 11, 2001. Balsillie
helped persuade carriers such as Rogers Communications Inc. and
Cingular Wireless to support the new technology.  RIM’s revenue increased an average of 78 percent a year
from 1999 to 2009. The company’s  market value  soared to C$84.5
billion ($83.4 billion) in 2008 from less than C$1 billion in
early 1999. For parts of 2007 and 2008, RIM was the country’s
most-valuable company, topping Royal Bank of Canada. In May
2008, Balsillie’s stake in the company was worth $4.83 billion,
according to a regulatory filing.  In November 2001, Arlington, Virginia-based NTP sued RIM,
accusing it of infringing on patented technology invented by
Thomas Campana Jr., a Chicago engineer. Donald Stout, who co-
founded NTP with Campana, would later say he would have settled
the case for less than $50 million.  Reaches Settlement  Instead, Balsillie denounced NTP as greedy and
“avaricious” in a letter to the Wall Street Journal, lobbied
Canadian and U.S. politicians to intervene in the dispute and
tried to take the case, which RIM lost in a  jury trial  in 2002,
as far as the U.S. Supreme Court. A $450 million settlement
reached in 2005 fell through. RIM finally agreed to a $612.5
million deal with NTP in 2006.  Having become one of Canada’s best-known and wealthiest
business people, Balsillie used his fortune to engage in his
favorite outside pursuits: world affairs and sports.  In 2001, he founded the  Centre for International Governance
Innovation , which describes itself as a non-partisan think tank
that researches global economics, security, development and
environmental policy. Balsillie accepted an invitation to join
the  Trilateral Commission , the international consortium of
leaders from business and government that meets behind closed
doors, in 2006.  Options Probe  He was less successful in his other passion of hockey. He
tried to buy a National Hockey League team three times, seeking
the  Pittsburgh Penguins ,  Nashville Predators  and  Phoenix
Coyotes . The league rebuffed him as it became clear he intended
to move a franchise to Canada.  In May 2007, during the Nashville negotiations, NHL
Commissioner Gary Bettman told the  Associated Press  that
Balsillie had assured him he had no intention of moving the
Predators to Hamilton, Ontario. Less a month later, Ticketmaster
Entertainment Inc. began accepting deposits on “Hamilton
Predators” season tickets.  At the same time, he faced a probe by the Ontario
Securities Commission over backdated  stock options . In 2007, the
company restated earnings, reducing profit by about $250 million
after finding it had assigned false dates to option grants to
make them more valuable to recipients. Balsillie stepped down as
chairman, and the OSC banned him from public companies’ boards
of directors for a year in 2009. He rejoined RIM’s board in
2010, sharing the chairmanship with Lazaridis.  Open Competition  Investors forgave Balsillie’s missteps at the time as the
company continued to increase profit and sell more smartphones
than any company besides Nokia Oyj. When Apple entered the
industry in 2007, Balsillie dismissed suggestions it would
threaten RIM.  “We have always had open competition in our space,” he
told analysts on a conference call that year. “This is no
different. Consumers benefit from it, and we welcome it.”  After leading the market for eight years, RIM was unable to
match Apple’s innovations. RIM’s first touch-screen smartphone,
released in November 2008, was nicknamed the “BlackBerry Dud”
by New York Times reviewer  David Pogue . RIM’s PlayBook tablet,
an attempt to counter Apple’s iPad, generated criticism for
lacking its own e-mail program upon its release last April. The
company has since delayed its promised fix until February.  Value Shrinks  The introduction of phones based on Google Inc.’s Android
operating system worsened RIM’s plight. The company’s share of
the world smartphone market fell to 11 percent in the third
quarter of last year from 19 percent in the second quarter of
2010, according to market-research firm Gartner Inc.  RIM reported its first year-over-year  decline  in revenue
since 2002 for the quarter that ended in August. Its shares
plunged a record 75 percent last year, reducing the value of
Balsillie’s stake to less than $500 million.  Balsillie publicly maintained optimism throughout RIM’s
travails. When the late Apple CEO  Steve Jobs  criticized RIM and
Android products in October, Balsillie posted a  response  on
RIM’s blog, saying Apple was misleading the public about the
relative strength of the two companies’ sales.  “We think many customers are getting tired of being told
what to think by Apple,” Balsillie wrote.  U.S. Dilemma  Shareholder resentment grew as RIM’s stock tumbled.
Northwest & Ethical Investments LP, a Toronto-based  money
manager , called for a split in the chairman and CEO roles in
June. Another Toronto-based holder, Jaguar Financial Corp.,
began a campaign in September to convince RIM to shake up its
management and sell parts of its business.  “The dilemma is that the U.S. went down the high end
smartphone market and the international market grew greatly,”
Balsillie said in the interview. “So the question is where you
put your resources? We couldn’t do both. We were explosive
growth internationally. Do we leverage core franchise and go
international, or do we move higher end for the U.S. market.”  The management changes don’t go far enough in ensuring
shareholders that the company will turn around, Jaguar Financial
Chairman and CEO Vic Alboini said today in a telephone
interview.  Balsillie and Lazaridis had shown no inclination of
stepping aside until now. The two CEOs did agree to reduce their
salary to $1 a year, while still receiving other benefits. The
gesture didn’t satisfy shareholders, whose tolerance for
Balsillie’s obstinacy ran out with RIM’s shrinking profits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  