-- RIM’s Executive Changes Don’t Go Far Enough, Jaguar Financial Chief Says
-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 2012-01-23T15:25:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/rim-s-management-changes-don-t-go-far-enough-holder-jaguar-financial-says.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) ’s management
changes don’t go far enough in ensuring a turnaround, said Vic Alboini, a RIM shareholder who has been pushing for a sale of
the BlackBerry maker.  RIM’s former co-chief executive officers,  Mike Lazaridis 
and  Jim Balsillie , must leave the board, said Alboini, who led a
shareholders’ campaign to oust the two executives from their
former positions. Board members  John Richardson  and Roger L. Martin should also leave, Alboini said in a telephone interview
today from Toronto. Thorsten Heins, the new CEO, said today he
sees no need for radical changes.  “The new CEO wants to stay the course,” Alboini said.
“That’s not what the market wants to hear. The market wants to
hear change and a strategic review.”  Alboini, CEO of Toronto-based  Jaguar Financial Corp. (JFC) , began
a push to persuade RIM to sell all or parts of its business in
September as the company’s share price was in the midst of its
75 percent plunge last year. Lazaridis and Balsillie agreed to
step down as co-chairmen and co-CEOs yesterday. Both remain on
the board, and Lazaridis was named vice chairman and chairman of
the board’s Innovation Committee.  Jaguar, which describes itself as a merchant bank that
invests in undervalued small-cap companies, is willing to give
Heins some time to make changes, he said. If unsatisfied, Jaguar
may nominate a rival slate of directors to force out board
members it dislikes, he said.  Supporters  Alboini said 16 shareholders who own almost 10 percent of
RIM’s shares support his campaign.  RIM fell 6.9 percent to C$16.05 as of 9:59 a.m. Toronto
time after Heins said he doesn’t think “drastic change” is
needed.  Alboini said former TMX Group Inc. CEO Barbara Stymiest was
the wrong choice to succeed Lazaridis and Balsillie as chairman.  “She’s been part of the problem,” he said. “I don’t
think she’s going to be strong enough to make the changes
necessary. We would say to her, ‘Prove us wrong.’”  RIM should appoint a “tech heavyweight from the U.S. and a
consumer-marketing star from  Southeast Asia ” to the board,
Alboini said. Jaguar has candidates in mind. It won’t make them
public yet, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  