-- Rolls Turns Adviser in Battle Against Gas-Guzzling Fighter Jets
-- B y   S a b i n e   P i r o n e
-- 2012-01-23T12:14:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/rolls-turns-adviser-in-battle-against-gas-guzzling-fighter-jets.html
Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc (RR/) , the
world’s second-largest aircraft-engine maker, is working to
advise cash-strapped governments on cutting fuel costs of
fighter jets by as much as 3 percent.  The supplier of engines for the Tornado warplane will
analyze and model data from missions, such as climb profiles,
thrust settings, and the performance of the engines and
airframes, Paul Craig, Rolls-Royce’s executive vice president of
defense services, said in an interview. A Tornado guzzles about
5,000 pounds ($7,772) worth of fuel an hour.  Rolls-Royce is in talks with multiple governments, he said,
without being specific. Faced with cutbacks in spending, the
London-based company is  seeking  to bolster its services offered
to governments by transferring analysis and models currently
provided for clients in the civil aerospace, marine and energy
industries.  “People haven’t got the same amount of money, so they are
looking to get more out of what they’ve got,” Craig said in the
Jan. 20 phone interview. “It’s a little bit more complicated to
do in the military world because of the sensitivity over data,
but it is something we know how to do and are starting to do.”  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s C-130 Hercules is among the
aircraft that Rolls-Royce could target with its fuel-saving
analysis, Craig said. Rolls currently has about 7,200 engines in
use on the military transporter worldwide, he said.  The percentage of savings “is significant” if you look at
the amount of fuel an air force or airline uses, he added.  In the U.K., Rolls services Tornado and Eurofighter jets,
which both saw action in Afghanistan and  Libya .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabine Pirone in London at 
 spirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  