-- Romanian Protests a ‘Credit-Negative Development’ at Moody’s
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2012-01-23T14:23:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/romanian-protests-a-credit-negative-development-at-moody-s-1-.html
Romanian anti-austerity protests are
“a credit negative development” that may stall the
government’s cost-cutting efforts to meet international loan
terms, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  Eleven days of protests, which turned violent on Jan. 14
and Jan. 15, prompted the government to withdraw a draft bill
that was part of changes to the health-care system to conform to
a loan agreement with the  International Monetary Fund  and the
European Union, said Atsi Sheth, a senior analyst at the ratings
company, in Moody’s Weekly Credit Outlook today.  Romania’s governing coalition, led by Prime Minister Emil Boc, is facing growing opposition to its austerity budget and
calls to resign ahead of a general election later this year. It
cut public wages by 25 percent and raised taxes in 2010 and as
it froze wages and pensions for this year. Moody’s rates Romania
Baa3, the lowest investment grade, with a stable outlook.  “Since 2012 is a national election year in Romania, the
endorsement of the protests by opposition political parties is
hardly surprising,” Sheth said. “It does, however, bode ill
for building on the fiscal discipline that the government
demonstrated over the past year.”  Lost Votes  The eastern European country agreed to a 5 billion-euro
($6.5 billion) precautionary two-year credit from the IMF
and the EU in March last year after a 20 billion-euro bailout
loan ended.  “The most important thing for  Romania  is its stability and
credibility, which were obtained with the price of peoples’
suffering, and we have no right to take that away,” Boc said in
a speech in Parliament today. “Yes, we have lost votes but it
was worth it.”  More than 10,000 people took to the streets on Jan. 19 to
demand early elections after the opposition joined the protests
to support a Health Ministry official who resigned because he
opposed the draft law, said Florin Hulea, a riot police
spokesman, in a phone interview today.  The protests, the largest since the austerity measures were
announced in 2010, have softened in recent days after turning
violent for the first time in more than a decade. Riot police
tightened security and low temperatures and snow deterred people
from participating, helping ease tensions.  “We included in our outlook the risk of fiscal slippages
because of the elections, but as long as the government keeps a
prudent approach we aren’t particularly worried,” said Vlad Muscalu, an economist at ING Bank Romania SA in a phone
interview. “Given the low number of protesters as compared with
what happened in other countries, we don’t see a significant
impact on the market.”  Muscalu estimates an  economic growth  of 0.8 percent for
this year and the  budget deficit  at 3.1 percent of the gross-
domestic product, compared with the government’s target of a gap
of 1.9 percent of GDP for this year. The government forecast
economic growth of 2.1 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  