-- Romney Previews His Florida Debate Attacks on Rival Gingrich
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-01-23T21:03:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/romney-opens-florida-campaign-with-attacks.html
Mitt Romney  attacked Newt Gingrich
less than a minute into a news conference in Florida today, a
sign of the more combative posture the former Massachusetts
governor is taking against the rival best positioned to block
his path to the Republican presidential nomination.  Romney said Gingrich, the former U.S. House speaker, has a
“highly erratic” record.  “He’s gone from pillar to post, almost like a pinball
machine, from item to item in a way which is highly erratic and
does not suggest a stable, thoughtful course, which is normally
associated with leadership,” Romney told reporters in Tampa.  Speaking ahead of tonight’s Republican candidate debate,
Romney also said Gingrich is ripe for “an October surprise,” a
reference to learning something unknown about a candidate
shortly before November’s general election.  Former U.S. Senator  Rick Santorum  of  Pennsylvania  and U.S.
Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas  also are set to participate in
the 9 p.m. debate.  Romney is seeking to regain his footing after Gingrich’s
12-point win over him in  South Carolina ’s Jan. 21 primary.
Gingrich’s victory set up a costly and combative campaign in
Florida as Republicans confront the possibility of a prolonged
fight for the nomination.  ‘You Get Desperate’  Gingrich described Romney as “desperate” at his own Tampa
event later in the day, his first in the state since winning
South Carolina.  “If you’ve been campaigning for six years and you begin to
see it slip away, you get desperate,” he said in remarks
outside a non-denominational church. “When you get desperate,
you say almost anything. And I think at tonight’s debate, he
will probably stretch the barrier almost anywhere.”  Gingrich said he is practicing one of former President
 Ronald Reagan ’s famous debate lines for the faceoff.  “I’ve been memorizing old phrases like ‘There you go
again,’” Gingrich said, calling Romney’s attacks non-factual.  “This is such baloney,” Gingrich said. “It used to be
pious baloney. Now it’s just desperate baloney.”  Knocking Romney’s financial strength, Gingrich said
“people power will beat money power” in Florida’s Jan. 31
primary. “I had a pretty good Saturday in South Carolina,” he
said “We hope to have a pretty good Tuesday right here in
Florida.”  Housing Slump Stories  Romney spoke this morning after meeting with eight people
from the Tampa area who have been affected by the  slump  in the
housing market.  “I wish Speaker Gingrich were here this morning to have
listened to those stories,” he said. “He said in a debate,
actually, that the people who profited from the failed model of
 Freddie Mac  and  Fannie Mae  ought to give back their money. Well,
the speaker made $1.7 million in his enterprises from providing
services to Freddie Mac. He ought to give it back. And we also
ought to be able to see what it is he told them.”  Gingrich did consulting work for the government-backed
mortgage company Freddie Mac after leaving Congress. Romney said
Gingrich should have seen the housing crisis coming and provided
an alert.  “I didn’t hear him making those warnings to the nation,”
Romney said. “He should have. If he was working inside this
industry, providing counsel to them, he should have provided
that advice to them and had communicated that to the nation.”  New TV Ad  Romney’s campaign released a new television ad in Florida
today criticizing Gingrich, including his work for Freddie Mac.  “While Florida families lost everything in the housing
crisis,  Newt Gingrich  cashed in,” the ad says. “Gingrich was
paid over $1.6 million by the scandal-ridden agency that helped
create the crisis.”  Romney said he will draw greater distinctions between
himself and Gingrich before the Florida primary.  “The speaker was very animated about my releasing tax
records. I am,” Romney said, referring to his decision to
disclose his return tomorrow. “I think it’s an appropriate
observation that people should know if there’s going to be an
October surprise. And in the case of the speaker, he’s got some
records which could represent an October surprise. We could see
an October surprise a day from Newt Gingrich.”  Private-Equity Past  Romney easily won the New Hampshire primary on Jan. 10 and
finished a close second in the Jan. 3 Iowa caucuses. Leading up
to the South Carolina vote, his rivals’ assault on his record as
a private-equity executive sidetracked his effort to quickly
lock up the nomination.  Although he has lost two of the first three contests in the
Republican race, Romney entered  Florida  with advantages. His
campaign and its allies have been airing television ads in the
state attacking rivals for almost a month. With early voting
already under way, Romney organizers are courting supporters and
encouraging them to cast ballots before primary day. About
200,000 people have already voted.  Romney today repeated his call for Gingrich to release
additional records from a 1997 ethics investigation when
Gingrich was speaker, as well as records on work that Romney
said should be considered lobbying.  “Let’s see who his clients were,” Romney said. “At the
time he was lobbying Republican congressmen” for a federal
prescription drug program, “was he working, or were his
entities working with any health-care companies that could have
benefited from that? That could represent not just evidence of
lobbying, but potentially wrongful activity of some kind.”  Asked whether he was suggesting that Gingrich had engaged
in criminal activity, Romney said no.  Lobbyist Charge  “We just need to understand what his activity has been
over the last 15 years and make sure that it’s conformed with
all the regulations that might exist,” he said.  Romney argued that Gingrich was a lobbyist, even though the
former speaker has denied that label.  “Saying that Newt Gingrich is a lobbyist is just a matter
of fact,” Romney said. “He indicates that he doesn’t fall
within the narrow definition of lobbyist that he might have in
mind, but if you’re working for a company and getting paid for a
company through one of your many entities, and then you are
speaking with congressmen in a way that would help that company,
that’s lobbying. If it walks like a duck and quacks like a duck,
it is a duck.”  Tax-Release Timing  Romney said he planned to release his tax records
“sometime in the morning” tomorrow. He said the timing had
nothing to do with President Barack Obama’s annual State of the
Union address, scheduled tomorrow night.  “The trustee of my trust that invests our family funds is
available that day,” he said. “It was to accommodate his
schedule.”  Gingrich released his 2010 returns on Jan. 19, becoming the
first of the four remaining Republican contenders to do so. The
returns showed he earned $3.1 million in 2010 and paid an
effective federal tax rate of about 32 percent, about double the
15 percent rate Romney said he paid.  On housing, so far the Republican presidential candidates
haven’t said much about what they’d do to help the market.
Democrats pounced on Romney in October when he told a newspaper
in  Nevada , the state with the highest foreclosure rate, that the
market should be allowed to “run its course and hit the
bottom.”  Asked about that remark today, Romney said he still
believes the housing sector must find its own equilibrium.  “The banks ought to show greater flexibility in being able
to renegotiate with people who have circumstances that would
justify that renegotiation,” he said. “The banks seem to be
paralyzed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in Tampa at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  