-- Rupee Strengthens on Optimism Fund Inflows Will Improve as Inflation Slows
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2012-01-23T12:03:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/rupee-strengthens-on-optimism-fund-inflows-will-improve-as-inflation-slows.html
India ’s rupee strengthened on
speculation international investors will quicken purchases of
the nation’s assets as inflation slows.  Foreign funds boosted  holdings  of Indian debt by $3.2
billion this month to $29.3 billion as of Jan. 19, exchange data
show, and investments in stocks rose by $1.2 billion.  Inflation (INFINFY) 
slowed to 7.47 percent in December from 9.11 percent the
previous month, government data show. The rupee’s gains may be
limited as importers buy dollars to meet month-end payments,
according to Alpari Financial Services.  “We could see a tussle between dollar demand from the oil
importers and foreign investors buying in the  debt market ,
resulting in volatile movement in the rupee,” Pramit
Brahmbhatt, chief executive officer at Alpari’s Indian unit in
Mumbai, wrote in an e-mail today.  The rupee advanced 0.5 percent to 50.0825 per dollar in
Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It strengthened
2.4 percent last week, the most since the five-day period ended
October 28.  The  Reserve Bank  of India will keep its benchmark rate
unchanged at 8.50 percent at a policy review tomorrow, according
to all 21 economists in a Bloomberg News  survey .  “Good” inflows into Indian stocks and debt and a “high”
forward premium are positive for the rupee, according to J.
Moses Harding, executive vice president at IndusInd Bank Ltd. in
Mumbai. The three-month forward premium was 8.30 percent today,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Harding recommends selling the greenback for April delivery
and buying January dollars, as a longer-term view is unclear.
“The RBI, which is still seen selling dollars in the foreign-
exchange market, could turn a buyer of dollars or the external
environment may deteriorate,” Harding said.  Three-month onshore forwards traded at 51.12 a dollar
compared with 51.48 on Jan. 20, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Offshore forwards traded at 51.19, compared with
51.54. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets at a set
price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in
dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  