-- Russian Parliament Speaker Ranked Country’s Most Powerful Woman
-- B y   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o
-- 2012-01-23T11:30:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/russian-parliament-speaker-ranked-country-s-most-powerful-woman.html
Valentina Matviyenko, the speaker of
Russia’s parliament, is the country’s most influential woman,
according to the radio station Echo Moskvy.  Pop singer Alla Pugacheva is second, followed by President
 Dmitry Medvedev ’s press secretary Natalya Timakova, his wife
Svetlana Medvedeva and Economy Minister  Elvira Nabiullina , the
Moscow-based radio station said on its website today. Echo
Moskvy, which published the ranking for the first time, asked
listeners to send in selections, which were ranked by a panel of
24 analysts, politicians and journalists.  The Soviet constitution gave men and women equal rights.
Soviet women were subject to the “motherhood contract,” a
policy of social benefits given in exchange for lower salaries
and limits on career advances. After the fall of communism two
decades ago, the practice is still used by some companies.  Matviyenko “is definitely on the top, being the first
woman in  Russia  to be in such a powerful position since
Catherine the Great, who lived in the 18th century,” Grigory
Kertman, the Public Opinion Foundation’s chief analyst, said by
phone. Pugacheva, 62, who has been Russia’s most popular singer
for the last three decades, is “well-known, but not
influential,” he said.  Matviyenko, 62, started her career 40 years ago in
Komsomol, the Communist Party’s youth division. In the 1990s,
she worked for the Ministry of  Foreign Affairs , becoming deputy
prime minister in 1998. As the speaker of the Federation
Council, the upper house of parliament, she is next after Prime
Minister  Vladimir Putin  on the ladder of executive power.  Between 2003 and 2011, Matviyenko was the governor of  St.
Petersburg , Russia’s second-largest city and the hometown of
Putin and Medvedev.  Timakova, 36, left a career in journalism in 1999 to become
Putin’s press secretary. She stayed in the Kremlin when Putin
moved to the premiership in 2008.  “She became the president’s closest adviser, the driver of
his political ambitions,” Mikhail Zygar, the editor-in-chief of
the RainTV channel, who took part in the survey, said by e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  