-- Putin Wants to Stop Vote Runoff, Rival Says
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o
-- 2012-01-23T15:23:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/russia-may-disallow-putin-challenger-from-presidential-election.html
Grigory Yavlinsky, a candidate of
the pro-democracy Yabloko party, accused Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  of barring him from March 4 presidential elections to
ensure a first-round victory.  The Central Elections Commission will conduct a second
check on more than 2 million signatures collected by Yavlinsky
after 23 percent were found to be invalid, an official from the
commission’s press service, who declined to be identified, in
line with policy, said by phone.  “They’re excluding me from the election because they don’t
want there to be a choice,” Yavlinsky told reporters today in
Moscow. “They want to make sure there’s only one round.”  Putin, 59, who was president from 2000 to 2008, plans to
return to the Kremlin after four years as premier. He’s faced
the biggest protests against his 12-year rule after alleged
fraud at a Dec. 4 parliamentary vote at which his ruling  United
Russia  party’s majority slid to about 50 percent from two-
thirds. Putin needs more than half of the presidential vote to
avoid a runoff.  Excluding Yavlinsky may steer support to billionaire
candidate  Mikhail Prokhorov  and stop Yabloko activists from
monitoring the election, party leader Sergei Mitrokhin said
today on his blog.  Dmitry Peskov, Putin’s spokesman, declined to comment on
Yavlinsky’s remarks.  Lend Legitimacy  Opposition leaders, who have organized the protests, accuse
Prokhorov of seeking to lend legitimacy to Putin’s re-election
by giving the appearance of competition at March’s vote.  Prokhorov, who’s campaigning on a pro-business and pro-
democracy ticket, says he’s a genuine contender and called today
for Yavlinsky to be allowed to run in the election.  Prokhorov may be registered as a candidate on Jan. 25 or
26, Interfax reported, citing the electoral commission. Irkutsk
Governor Dmitry Mezentsev will probably be excluded from the
vote because of invalid signatures, the commission said.  Independent candidates need to collect 2 million
signatures, while contenders from parties represented in
parliament have the automatic right to run for president.
Communist leader  Gennady Zyuganov , the Just Russia party’s
Sergei Mironov and  Vladimir Zhirinovsky  of the nationalist
Liberal Democrat Party are also in the race.  Yavlinsky’s support is 1 percent, according to the latest
poll by the state-run All-Russian Center for the Study of  Public
Opinion . Putin would get 52 percent, Zyuganov 11 percent and
Zhirinovsky 9 percent, according to the Jan. 14-15 survey of
1,600 Russians, which had a margin of error of 3.4 percentage
points. Prokhorov had 2 percent support, the poll showed.  Yavlinsky said his exclusion shows how much Putin is
concerned about winning in the first round and restricting
access to the polling.  “Putin is afraid of two things: observers and elections,”
Yavlinsky said. “Yabloko has vowed to deploy tens of thousands
of observers. All the other candidates are different
manifestations of the authorities.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  