-- Salesforce.com to Offer Companies Social-Network Data Sifting
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-01-23T12:07:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/salesforce-com-to-offer-corporate-system-for-social-network-data-sifting.html
Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM) , the largest
seller of online customer-management software, is working on
technology to help corporate clients sift through social-network
traffic to track what potential customers are saying.  The company may add the products through internal efforts
or through acquisitions, Chief Scientist JP Rangaswami said
today in an interview in Munich. That would allow Salesforce 
to add to a lineup that includes Social Marketing Cloud, which 
enables companies to react to messages such as tweets sent by 
users of Twitter Inc.’s network.  “Lots of devices, lots of people on the network means lots
of noise,” Rangaswami said. “The next generation of value is,
what is the smartest way to create filters? How do you know
which of all these tweets to listen to?”  Chief Executive Officer  Marc Benioff  is expanding
Salesforce’s offering beyond Web-based software for managing
sales and customer service to include social-media tools that
track customer preferences and connect clients’ staff directly
with potential buyers. Salesforce has won  contracts  provide such
tools to companies including Toyota Motor Corp., Burberry Group
Plc and Coca Cola Co., Rangaswami said.  Salesforce, which is based in  San Francisco , had to cut the
price of the first version of its Chatter internal business-
collaboration platform to $15 a user per month from $50 to gain
more customers, Benioff said last year. Chatter will be able to
command higher prices as services are added, such as temporary
subscriptions to content such as messages regarding a specific
customer problem, Rangaswami said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Munich via at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  