-- Senate May Do Even Less This Year
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-01-23T17:24:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/senate-may-do-even-less-this-year-after-recess-appointments.html
The  U.S. Senate  returns to work
today smarting from record-low approval ratings for Congress and
facing the prospect of a second year of little achievement
before voters decide in November which party will control the
chamber.  The four appointments President Barack Obama made during
the holiday break angered a Republican minority with the power
to block legislation and nominations for administration jobs
that the Senate is charged with confirming. Obama’s decision to
run against the policies of congressional Republicans in his re-
election campaign heats up battles that have derailed
legislation on jobs, the budget  deficit  and other issues.  Meanwhile, Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  has little
incentive to move legislation that could split Democrats and
complicate their re-election chances, as he works to shield the
16 incumbent Democratic senators who face voters this year.  “There’s not a lot of space for big legislation, and
feelings between the parties will only sour as the elections
near,” said  Julian Zelizer , a history professor at  Princeton
University  in  New Jersey .  Accomplishing anything significant in the Senate requires
cooperation because Democrats control the chamber with 53 votes,
shy of the 60 needed to end a filibuster. Senate Republicans’
opposition to the Democrats’ agenda, along with partisan
differences between the Senate and Republican-led House, last
year led the nation to the brink of four government shutdowns
and yielded the least productive year on record for Congress.  80 Laws  Just 80 laws were completed in 2011, the lowest number
since the Congressional Record began keeping an annual tally in
1947. That’s well short of the previous record of 88 in 1995,
which was also a year when a new Republican House majority
countered a Democratic president’s agenda with one of its own.  Many of 2011’s new laws were small-ticket items -- 16 that
named post offices and other federal buildings, and four that
appointed members to the Smithsonian Institution’s Board of
Regents.  That lack of accomplishment was noticed by the public,
which gave Congress record-low levels of approval in opinion
polls. A  Washington  Post-ABC News poll conducted Jan. 12-15 put
approval of Congress at 13 percent, the worst ever in that
survey. A Dec. 15-18 Gallup poll placed the figure at 11
percent, also a record.  Recess Appointment Fallout  The Senate’s first order of business, a vote set for this
evening to confirm John Gerrard to a seat on the U.S. District
Court in  Nebraska , marks a pivotal moment. Gerrard is backed by
Republicans, and by unanimous consent the Senate in December
agreed to hold the vote.  Other nominees may have a tougher time. The agreement to
vote to confirm Gerrard came before Obama’s Jan. 4 recess
appointments, which included the installation of  Richard Cordray 
as director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and
three appointments to the  National Labor Relations Board .
Republicans are angered that Obama acted while Congress was
holding “pro forma” sessions that have been used to forestall
recess appointments.  Republicans have given little indication whether they will
block other nominees -- or key measures -- in retaliation.
Besides Gerrard, there are 78 nominations pending before the
full Senate as Obama works to fill posts that include 18 other
judicial picks, the comptroller of the currency, two spots on
the Federal Trade Commission and two slots on the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp.’s board.  ‘Disrespect’ for Constitution  Senator  Charles Grassley  of  Iowa , the top Republican on the
Senate Judiciary Committee, said Senate Republicans must weigh
options that may include blocking other appointments.  “Anything ought to be on the table to bring attention to
the disrespect the president has for the Constitution,” he said
in a Jan. 10 interview.  Democrats say Obama made a smart move with the recess
appointments as Republican obstruction had prevented the
consumer financial agency and the labor relations board from
functioning.  “It’s something that has been a frustration to all of us
for a long time -- that a minority in the Senate can block the
ability for the president to put in place people to manage the
agencies in this country,” said Senator  Patty Murray  of
Washington, a member of the Democratic leadership team. “We
have to move forward and we need these agencies to be able to
work to protect the American public’s interests.”  Senate Gridlock  Former Utah Republican Senator Robert Bennett said Senate
gridlock on appointments is a real risk.  “There are some who are just looking for an excuse to
block everybody,” said Bennett, who is now a lobbyist. “The
question is whether the others will now go along.”  The year’s Senate agenda is dominated by business carried
over from last year. A  payroll tax -cut extension that sparked a
late-December standoff between the House and Senate is back on
the list, after House Speaker  John Boehner  capitulated and
agreed to the Senate’s plan for a two-month extension of a
payroll tax cut for workers.  Congressional negotiators will seek to hammer out an
extension for the rest of 2012 and decide whether to include
expanded unemployment benefits and head off a reduction in
 Medicare (USBOMDCR)  payments to doctors.  Reid on Jan. 20 canceled a planned procedural vote this
week on a Hollywood-backed anti-piracy bill, hurting the
legislation’s prospects days after an online protest by  Google
Inc. (GOOG)  and Wikipedia. The delay will allow more time to resolve
industry concerns over the measure.  Jobs Plan  Other issues that could be on the Senate’s agenda include
measures to reauthorize the nation’s aviation and highway
programs. In the spring, Senate Democrats will resume debate
over parts of Obama’s $447 billion jobs plan, said Adam
Jentleson, a spokesman for Reid. Almost all the Democratic jobs
proposals last year failed to clear the Senate.  Along with annual appropriations bills, another spending
matter will dominate: whether to adjust agency spending
reductions in a $1.2 trillion, 10-year across-the-board budget
cut that is slated to begin at year’s end. That cut comes after
a congressional supercommittee last fall couldn’t agree on a
deficit-reduction plan.  Democrats have some momentum this year, said  Steven Smith ,
a political science professor at  Washington University  in  St.
Louis . House Republicans may want to compromise in the debate
over the payroll tax-cut extension, he said.  Election Edge  The November election will overshadow everything.
Republicans may have an edge in winning Senate seats with the
pending retirement of seven incumbent Democrats. Also, of the 33
Senate seats on the ballot in November, 23 are now held by
Democrats, meaning Reid has to play defense.  “By and large, anything that divides Democrats, he’ll try
to avoid,” Smith said.  Improvements in the economy could shake up campaign
prospects and the Senate agenda. An  unemployment rate  that stood
at 9.1 percent in August has been  steadily declining , to 8.5
percent in December.  The low approval ratings for Congress may push lawmakers to
seek achievements, said former Senate Majority Leader Tom Daschle, a Democrat who was in the Senate from 1994 to 2005.  “It’s in the best interests of both parties, and the House
and the Senate, to be able to demonstrate that they’ve
accomplished a lot,” Daschle said. “That will be their biggest
argument going back to the voters.”  Former Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott, a Republican,
disagreed. He said the recess appointments have set a negative
tone in the initial months of an election year, when bipartisan
deals are most likely.  “The anger will subside with time,” said Lott. “But I
think most Republicans feel that it was unconstitutional and bad
for the relationship between the parties. I think it was very
negative and it will add to the tensions of a political year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  