-- Senator Mark Kirk of Illinois Suffers a Stroke, Republican’s Office Says
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n   a n d   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k
-- 2012-01-23T22:53:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/senator-mark-kirk-of-illinois-suffers-a-stroke-republican-s-office-says.html
U.S. Senator  Mark Kirk  of  Illinois 
suffered a stroke that probably will leave him with permanent
physical damage, his surgeon said.  Doctors removed an 8-by-4-inch section from the right side
of Kirk’s skull during surgery today to relieve swelling around
his brain, said Dr. Richard Fessler, a neurosurgeon at
Northwestern Memorial Hospital in  Chicago , during a news
conference. Kirk, a 52-year-old Republican, had checked himself
into another hospital two days earlier and was transferred.  “He was beginning to deteriorate neurologically, so that
is what forced our hand,” Fessler said.  The artery to the right side of Kirk’s brain is fully
blocked, though some blood vessels may partially compensate for
the loss, Fessler said. The surgeon said it will be “very
difficult” for Kirk to use his left arm again, while he is more
“hopeful” for the use of the senator’s left leg.  Kirk was elected in 2010 to the Senate seat once held by
President Barack Obama. He previously served five terms in the
U.S. House and also rose to the position of commander in the
Naval Reserve. He is a member of the Senate appropriations,
banking and health-care committees.  Fessler said part of the treatment after surgery is to keep
Kirk sedated, though when he is removed from sedation he “seems
to know who’s around him” and is able to follow commands
“briskly.”  ‘Cerebral’ Job  As Kirk’s job as a senator is “cerebral,” Fessler said he
may be able to return to work, though the recovery time would be
measured in months and weeks, not days.  Kirk’s office released a statement earlier today that
expressed confidence he will recover.  “Due to his young age, good health and the nature of the
stroke, doctors are very confident in the senator’s recovery
over the weeks ahead,” said the statement.  According to the statement, Kirk checked himself into Lake
Forest Hospital on Jan. 21 and doctors found a carotid artery
tear on the right side of his neck. He was transferred to
Northwestern Memorial Hospital, where tests indicated that he
had suffered a stroke, Kirk’s office said.  Kirk’s family members, in a statement, said they are “very
encouraged by the prognosis.”  “Mark has always shown great courage and resistance, and
we are confident that the fighter in him will prevail,” the
family said in the statement.  Recovery Time  Recovery time depends on the severity of the stroke, said
Jeffrey Thomas, medical director of interventional
neuroradiology at the Comprehensive Stroke Care Center at the
Washington Township Medical Foundation and Washington Hospital
in Fremont,  California . He didn’t have details of Kirk’s case
and commented generally.  “Someone that young, they tend to have a better chance at
the recovery, but initially their brains are also very much more
reactive than someone who has begun to age,” Thomas said in a
telephone interview, meaning younger stroke patients’ brains
will swell more. “Patients can make unbelievable recoveries
from such a thing and may be highly functional people.”  Illinois Governor  Pat Quinn , in a statement, wished Kirk a
“swift and strong recovery” and said “he will fight through
this to return to his work on behalf of the people of
Illinois.”  Fellow Illinois Senator  Dick Durbin , a Democrat, said in a
statement he was “stunned” to learn about Kirk’s stroke and
offered to “do anything I can to help with his Senate duties.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net ;
Derek Wallbank in Washington at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  