-- Serb Central Bank Asks Government to Keep IMF Program Alive
-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2012-01-23T16:58:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/serb-central-bank-asks-government-to-keep-imf-program-alive-1-.html
The Serbian central bank urged the
government to resolve differences with the  International
Monetary Fund  over the 2012 budget that have delayed the
lender’s program review with the country.  Failing to comply with the provisions of the $1.44 billion
precautionary arrangement could cause higher borrowing costs for
Serbia and jeopardize foreign direct and portfolio investments,
Governor Dejan Soskic said in Belgrade today. The IMF postponed
the review last week saying Serbia’s budget plan “deviates from
the program parameters” and that further talks are needed.  “Narodna Banka Srbije appeals that additional efforts be
made for the sake of reaching an agreement and continuation of
the arrangement with the IMF,” Soskic told reporters in
Belgrade today. “In a situation of international financial
instability, the arrangement with the IMF represents additional
guarantees for short- and mid-term macroeconomic stability.”  A suspension of the IMF arrangement could destabilize the
dinar, increase  Serbia ’s risk premiums and scare foreign
investors away from the country, especially non-residents who
would be buying Serbian debt, Soskic said.  The state had pledged to curb the budget gap to 4.25
percent of gross domestic product this year, from 4.5 percent in
2011, while keeping the public debt under 45 percent of GDP. The
IMF said on Jan. 19 that planned “issuance of public debt and
guarantees and projected implementation of investment projects
are in excess of what would be consistent” with the targets.  Perceived Risk  Serb Premier Mirko Cvetkovic’s economic adviser, Jurij
Bajec, said the 2012 budget plan is in line with the targets and
that IMF concerns were about perceived risk from public
investments in infrastructure, sovereign guarantees and a 100
million-euro capital increase in  Komercijalna banka AD , in which
the government wants to keep a controlling stake.  A fallout with the IMF could also mean losing financial
backing from the countries whose support hinges on positive
assessment from the Washington-based lender, Soskic said.  The central bank lowered its two-week repurchase rate by a
quarter-point to 9.5 percent last week, amid slowing inflation
and the need to maintain growth. Having emerged from recession
seven quarters ago, the economy is expected to expand 1.5
percent this year “but we must be prepared for lower than
projected activity” and lower revenue, the governor said.  Coping with potential shortfall may include raising the
value-added  tax rate , which would have a “one-time impact on
inflation” that otherwise has been slowing, he said.  Inflation, at an annual 7 percent in December, the is soon
expected slow to the target range of 4 percent plus or minus 1.5
percentage points and may even fall below the lower end of 2.5
percent during the second quarter, Soskic said. That would be a
“temporary phenomenon” of “just a month or two” before the
rate stabilizes within the target range, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  