-- Silverstein Said to Discuss Capping 3 World Trade Center at Seven Stories
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2012-01-23T20:06:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/silverstein-said-to-discuss-capping-3-world-trade-center-at-seven-stories.html
Larry Silverstein  is in discussions
to cap 3 World Trade Center at seven floors if tenants aren’t
found to take enough space for the building’s planned 80
stories, said two people familiar with the talks.  The discussions with the Port Authority of New York and  New
Jersey , which owns the lower Manhattan site, are based on a 2010
agreement that required the developer to have private financing
and an anchor tenant in place, said the people, who asked not to
be identified because the talks are private. Meeting those
conditions would qualify the project for financial support from
the agency, as well as the city and state.  Finding one or more anchor tenants for at least 400,000
square feet (37,000 square meters), as required, has proved
tougher than anticipated as  New York ’s financial companies
reduce staff and cut back on their space needs. The tower,
designed by  Richard Rogers , the Pritzker Prize-winning British
architect, is designed to have 2.8 million square feet,
according to Silverstein Properties Inc.’s website.  Silverstein said in a statement today that he remains “100
percent committed and determined to build 3 World Trade Center
to the top as quickly as possible.” The developer is “fully
optimistic” that he can sign a lease in time to complete the
tower in 2015, as scheduled, he said.  Steve Coleman, a Port Authority spokesman, declined to
comment.  The plans are flexible enough that Silverstein could
reverse the capping of the building should he meet the tenant
and financing requirements, said the people familiar with the
discussions.  Crain’s New York Business reported the talks on its  website 
yesterday.  The  Port Authority  is building the 104-story 1 World Trade
Center, and Silverstein is developing the 72-story 4 World Trade
Center nearby. Both are slated to be completed next year. The
base of 2 World Trade Center is also being constructed, with no
time line in place for the building itself.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  