-- Sino-Forest Halt Extended by Regulator on Lack of Disclosure
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2012-01-23T22:38:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/sino-forest-s-halt-from-canada-trading-extended-to-april-16-by-regulator.html
Canada’s main securities regulator
said it extended the trading ban on  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE) , the
Chinese timber company fending off fraud allegations, because
the company’s disclosures remain “incomplete.”  The Ontario Securities Commission lengthened the trading
suspension, which was due to expire tomorrow, to at least April
16 at a hearing yesterday in Toronto.  The extension is in the public interest because Sino-Forest
remains in default of continuous disclosure requirements and the
company’s special committee of independent directors has yet to
issue a final report on its investigation of fraud allegations,
said OSC Vice Chairman Mary G. Condon.  “This lack of disclosure fails to provide a satisfactory
assurance that an orderly market in the securities of Sino-
Forest can be maintained,” Condon said at the hearing.  In August, the OSC halted trading of Hong Kong- and
Mississauga, Ontario-based Sino-Forest after the shares fell 74
percent since June, when short seller Carson Block’s Muddy
Waters LLC said the company had overstated its timber holdings.  Sino-Forest, which has denied the allegations, set up the
special committee to investigate the assertions in the Muddy
Waters report. The company said Jan. 12 the committee will
release its findings by the end of this month.  Bondholder Talks  Sino-Forest, which is under investigation by the OSC as
well as the  Royal Canadian Mounted Police , said Jan. 12 that its
debt holders agreed to waive a default triggered by delays in
publishing third-quarter results. The company agreed to
“monetize” assets to repay debt as part of the accord. It has
$1.8 billion in outstanding bonds.  Chief Executive Officer Judson Martin, who took over after
the resignation of company co-founder, Chairman and CEO  Allen Chan  in August, said in November that Sino-Forest may consider
going private, selling a stake or seeking a merger to raise
funds.  Yesterday’s OSC ruling is a setback for investors seeking
to sell their holdings.  “I’m frustrated,”  Bill Evans , 42, a Charleston, South
Carolina-based mortgage originator who owns about 1,000 Sino-
Forest shares, said by telephone before the ruling. “You don’t
have to be a rocket scientist to know there’s some value there.
It’s stupid.”  Holders of Sino-Forest shares lost about C$3.3 billion
($3.27 billion) following the June 2 publication of the Muddy
Waters report. Hedge fund Paulson & Co., formerly Sino-Forest’s
largest  shareholder , sold its entire 12.5 percent stake in June,
telling clients it had lost C$462 million since May 31 on the
investment.  Sino-Forest last traded in  Canada  on Aug. 25 at C$4.81. The
U.S. shares were halted after slumping to $1.38 on Aug. 26.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  