-- SNB Chief May Escape Wrath Shareholders Heaped on Hildebrand
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2012-01-23T10:42:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/snb-successor-may-escape-wrath-shareholders-heaped-on-hildebrand.html
As central bankers around the world
try to serve populations and find consensus with fellow policy
makers, the next president of the  Swiss National Bank  has yet
another group to contend with: shareholders.  Philipp Hildebrand’s successor will join chiefs in a
handful of countries from South Africa to  Greece  whose central
banks are companies open to investors. The new president, if
appointed by then, will attend an annual meeting on April 27 to
face shareholders expecting to receive a dividend that the bank
has paid out every year since 1921.  Last year, a record loss forced Hildebrand to threaten to
deprive investors dominated by Swiss cantons of payments they
took for granted. Their criticism emboldened calls for his
resignation before the former SNB president was forced to quit
because of a currency transaction by his wife. For Thomas Jordan, the interim chief and frontrunner to succeed Hildebrand,
a return to profit may augur a smoother time than his
predecessor endured.  “After last year’s strong criticism, this will come as a
relief to Jordan,” said David Marmet, chief Swiss economist at
Zuercher Kantonalbank, the biggest of the Swiss publicly owned
cantonal banks. “If shareholders are happy, it’s one thing less
for him to worry about.”  Founded in 1907, the Swiss central bank has the legal
status of a corporation, with 62 percent of its shares held by
cantons, regional banks and public institutions. Private
shareholders own the remaining 38 percent but have limited
voting rights.  Money Spinner  The SNB on Jan. 13 reported a full-year profit of 13
billion francs ($13.9 billion) and pledged to distribute 1
billion francs to cantons and the federal government after the
franc cap of 1.20 versus the euro helped generate 8 billion
francs on its currency holdings. The bank’s  shares  ended trading
up 15 percent on the day the earnings were released.  SNB shares fell 0.6 percent to 1,049 francs at 11:33 a.m.
in Zurich. The central bank has a market capitalization of 105.5
million francs, compared with 178 billion francs for  Nestle SA (NESN) ,
the company that carries the biggest weight in the  benchmark
index .  While this year’s SNB payment to cantons and the federation
will be less than half of 2010’s 2.5 billion francs, the return
to profit may still help soothe disgruntled shareholders.  ‘It Helps a Lot’  “After last year’s announcement, we didn’t budget any
money for this year,” said Flavio Buesser, secretary general at
the  finance ministry  in the canton of  St. Gallen , in a telephone
interview. “Now, we get 40 million francs. It’s not decisive
but it helps a lot as our budget is pretty strained.”  The SNB is one of just a few central banks with a similar
holding structure. The  Bank of Greece  has some 19,000
shareholders, with the state controlling 8.9 percent. In  South
Africa , the central bank has more than 600 shareholders and
 Belgium ’s central bank is 50 percent owned by the state and pays
an annual dividend. In the Republic of San Marino, banks hold
about 30 percent of the central bank’s shares.  The SNB’s shares have gained about 5.1 percent in the past
year, while the benchmark  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  fell about 7.3
percent. In Greece, which has been at the heart of the euro
region’s fiscal crisis, the central bank lost 55 percent over
that period, while Belgium’s central bank declined 35 percent.  The South African central bank’s stock is traded on an
over-the-counter basis and it has more than 660 shareholders,
according to its website. In the Republic of  San Marino , shares
are owned by the state and banks, and aren’t openly traded.  ECB, Fed  The  European Central Bank  is owned by the European Union’s
27 national central banks, which contribute a share capital of
10 billion euros ($13 billion). The 10 non-euro area national
central banks are not entitled to any ECB profits nor are they
liable to fund possible losses.  The U.S. Federal Reserve consists of a board of governors,
which is an agency independent of the executive, and 12 regional
reserve banks. Though some private banks are required to
subscribe to equity in these institutions, this equity cannot be
sold and entitles the owners to only a partial role in selecting
directors of the regional banks. The remainder of these
appointments, and final approval of regional presidents, rests
with the board in  Washington .  SNB shareholders have received an annual dividend
consistently during nine decades and that makes the investment
more like a bond, said John Plassard, director at Louis Capital
Markets SA in Geneva.  ‘Never Failed’  “Since 1921, the SNB has never failed to pay this
dividend,” said SNB spokesman Walter Meier.  While the SNB is politically independent, and shareholders
don’t have a say in how the profit is used, its ownership
structure adds to scrutiny on its operations. Hildebrand, 48,
who resigned on Jan. 9, drew criticism last year after saying
that the central bank may scrap its profit distribution
following a record loss of $21 billion.  The SNB tried to weaken the franc through unprecedented
currency purchases in the 15 months through June 2010, a policy
Christoph Blocher, the  Swiss People’s Party  lawmaker who
challenged Hildebrand before he quit, called “senseless
speculation” with state funds.  Blocher became embroiled in the furor leading to
Hildebrand’s resignation when he received leaked details of a
$504,000 currency transaction in August by the central banker’s
wife. The former justice minister said that Hildebrand was “no
longer able to act” as head of the SNB.  Results Due  According to the National Bank Act that governs the SNB,
the central bank can disburse a maximum dividend of 6 percent of
the 25 million francs paid-in capital, giving shareholders as
much as 15 francs per share. The SNB will publish detailed full-
year earnings on March 8.  “Despite its losses, the SNB was right in intervening in
the foreign  currency markets ,” said Christian Wanner, a finance
official from the region of Solothurn, which is set to receive
21 million francs, accounting for about 4 percent of tax income.
“Philipp Hildebrand did a good job.”  The region of Bern is the largest shareholder with 6.6
percent, followed by Theo Siegert, a German entrepreneur who
controls 5.6 percent, worth about 5.8 million francs. He
considers the stake as a “mere financial investment,”
Handelszeitung reported in April 2011, citing people close to
the investor. Siegert, 64, teaches at a university in Munich. He
couldn’t be reached by telephone and didn’t respond to e-mails.  “Cantons can use every franc,” Hannes Germann, a lawmaker
from the Swiss People’s Party, said in a telephone interview.
“Some had already started thinking about tax increases
following the central bank’s warning last year. Now, they have a
little bit more room.”  In a speech titled ‘Does the SNB Need Equity?’ on Sept. 28,
Jordan, also 48, told an audience in Basel that the central bank
is aware that “volatile annual results are neither simple nor
pleasant” for regions.  Still, “the SNB doesn’t have a mandate to make profits,”
he said. “There may be years in the future in which no
distribution can be made.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  