-- Soccer Teams Speculate More on Player Transfers, FIFA-Backed Group Finds
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-01-23T12:58:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/soccer-teams-speculate-more-on-player-transfers-fifa-backed-group-finds.html
European soccer teams are
speculating more on the player transfer market as other revenue
including sponsorship and ticket sales is stretched by a
sluggish economy, according to a research group backed by soccer
ruling body FIFA.  Some 500 teams surveyed signed 8 percent more players over
the last six months compared to the year-earlier period, with
the number of club-trained players dropping 1 percent, according
to the  International Center for Sports Studies . The teams signed
an average of 10 players in the last half of 2011, research
found.  The upward trend is being accelerated by investors,
including player agents and team officials, buying up transfer
rights of players themselves as they seek a profit, Raffaele
Poli, one of the study’s three authors, said. The other authors
are Roger Besson and Loic Ravenel.  “The best way to make money in soccer is in the transfer
market,” Poli said in a phone interview from Neuchatel. “It’s
a short term perspective. It’s much easier than investing in
facilities and coaches.”  Zurich-based FIFA  allows investors to buy the transfer
rights of players, in return for any profit when they are re-
sold, provided they don’t interfere with trades. The practice is
banned in the English Premier League, the biggest soccer
championship by sales.  The International Center for Sports Studies was created in
1995 as a joint venture between FIFA, the University of
Neuchatel and Swiss authorities.  Rise in Value  There were $2.2 billion of trades in the biggest European
leagues in the last offseason, a 30 percent rise in value
compared to a year earlier, according to a Sept. 8 report by
Barcelona-based Prime Time Sport.  Speculating on the transfer market is most common in
 Portugal ,  Italy , Cyprus and  Turkey  where on average less than
eight percent of current players graduated from the youth teams
of the clubs they play for, Poli said.  Separate research found 20 percent of 300 player agents
surveyed have stakes in transfer rights, risking a conflict of
interest, Poli said. Several club owners are also involved in
the practice, according to Poli.  The transfer rights of as many as 1,000 players, or 15
percent of all squads in  Europe , may be owned by third parties,
according to Poli.  “It’s very difficult to control,” Poli said. European
soccer ruling body UEFA “should investigate this issue and
integrate it in financial fair-play rules but they will probably
be opposed by many clubs that depend on it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid  at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at  celser@bloomberg.net  