-- Twitter Feeds on Netflix Prompt Stock Service
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-01-23T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/social-media-predicting-stock-moves-spawn-sentiment-firms-tech.html
The torrent of posts on  Twitter Inc. 
last year about  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  might have tipped off investors to
stock swings that erased about $8 billion from the movie-rental
company’s market value in three months.  Topsy Labs Inc., a site that searches data on the
microblogging service, analyzed tweets during a period around
Netflix’s decision last September to split its DVD and streaming
businesses. By examining posts such as “just canceled my
Netflix subscription,” Topsy was able to pick up signals of a
coming drop. Now, it’s taking those  results  to help build a new
service to aid investors in predicting other stock moves.  “Information dissemination is now largely not through
publication, but through conversation,” said Rishab Ghosh, co-
founder and vice president of research at Topsy, based in San
Francisco. “We’ve actually been able to show that you can take
that data, put it through processing, and relate it to the
market return for a specific stock.”  Topsy is one of several companies, including WiseWindow and
Derwent  Capital Markets , that use so-called sentiment analysis,
a cutting-edge field where companies examine the chatter on
Twitter, Facebook Inc. and blogs to help them predict stock
movements, market trends and the success of new products.  Social media’s growing influence throughout the world, such
as the protests in the  Middle East  during the “Arab Spring,”
has made sentiment analysis an important tool in other areas,
such as the measurement of political risk. It also may have
broad applications in gauging voter attitudes during, for
instance, an election year.  Determining Sentiment  Sentiment about Netflix was found by tracking negative and
positive comments on Twitter in a given day. For example, “an
apology from your CEO won’t win my business back” would be
considered negative, while “Netflix split a good long-range
move for the company” was positive.  The company also used baselines to adjust for distortions
in data, such as the time of day. For example, the Topsy
analysis discounted negative comments on Monday mornings, when
people tend to be less upbeat.  “It is data and news generated from the ground level,”
said Erin Collard, an adviser to Topsy Labs and a portfolio
manager at Armored Wolf, a fund with about $750 million under
management. “It’s real time, and it’s way more predictive, and
way ahead of the curve before it even reaches mainstream
media.”  The company’s analysis of Netflix showed that of all the
factors that could influence a  stock’s direction , sentiment on
Twitter on a given day captured more than half of the stock’s
move the next trading session.  Access to Investors  Topsy Labs, which has about $30 million in funding, plans
to offer access to Twitter sentiment analysis later this year to
investors looking for guidance on stock-price moves, Ghosh said.
In an agreement with Twitter, the company has full access to the
messages of the service’s more than 100 million users, he said.
That means it sifts through tens of millions of tweets a day,
not just small samples, and can look at historical data it has
had for years.  “In order to best understand and put into context what’s
happening today, it’s helpful to understand what’s happened as
far back as possible,” said Lou Kerner, an analyst at Liquidnet
Holdings Inc. in  New York . “That’s an advantage.”  Twitter’s Limits  Still, the Twitter data can’t be a complete reflection of
what’s going on in the world because there are other outlets,
such as social-networking giant Facebook, where people can
express opinions, said Jake Wengroff, a social-media analyst at
 Frost & Sullivan  in  San Antonio ,  Texas .  “Only looking at Twitter is going to have its
limitations,” he said. “If people have something to say,
Twitter might not be their first choice.”  Topsy previously looked at how sentiment about Apple Inc.’s
iPhone 4S indicated that sales might be better than what
analysts initially expected. On Oct. 4, the day that iPhone was
released, initial comments about the new device were more
positive than negative, according to Topsy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  