-- Solon Rises Most Since 2004 on Possible Bid: Frankfurt Mover
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-01-23T17:22:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/solon-rises-on-request-for-purchase-clearance-frankfurt-mover.html
Solon SE (SOO1) , a German solar-panel maker
in bankruptcy proceedings, rose the most in almost eight years
as Middle Eastern supplier Microsol International sought
approval from German authorities to buy part of the company.  Solon rose 55 percent to 46 euro cents a share at the close
in  Frankfurt , the steepest one-day gain since March 2004. United
Arab Emirates-based solar-cell maker Microsol filed an
acquisition clearance  request  for Solon’s photovoltaic business
with German regulator Bundeskartellamt.  Microsol would obtain access to “a well-known brand, good
technology and the German photovoltaic market,” the world’s
largest, said Henning Wicht, an analyst at researcher IHS
Isuppli, by phone.  Microsol, based in Fujairah, the  United Arab Emirates , has
a “big interest” in Solon, General Manager Chakradhar
Vummethala told Tagesspiegel today, declining to value an offer
as other parties may bid before a deadline to do so runs out at
the end of this month.  Solon is in talks with a “handful” of possible buyers,
Ruediger Wienberg, insolvency administrator at HWW Wienberg
Wilhelm, said Jan. 9. Christoph Moeller, a Wienberg spokesman,
said today it’s common for potential investors to request
clearance before an acquisition contract has been agreed.  “Speeding things up is open to every potential investor,”
he said. Therese Raatz, a Solon spokeswoman, wouldn’t comment.  Solon filed for insolvency after talks failed with lenders
and investors to extend repayment of a 275 million-euro ($358
million) loan to German banks including Deutsche Bank AG. The
company has a market value of 7.9 million euros.  Microsol, founded in 2003, runs a solar-cell plant with a
capacity of 150 megawatts and has more than 200 workers,
according to its  website . Solon, which in 1998 became  Germany ’s
first listed photovoltaic producer, employs about 800 at units
in  Italy , Germany,  France  and the U.S., according to its
website. Germany installed a record 7.5 gigawatts of solar
panels in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  