-- Solvay Delaying Some Investment Decisions as Cash Is Priority
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2012-01-23T13:51:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/solvay-delaying-some-investment-decisions-as-cash-is-priority.html
Solvay SA (SOLB) , the world’s largest soda-
ash maker, is delaying some investment decisions in mature
economies as cash is the priority during the  Europe ’s economic
slowdown, Chief Financial Officer Bernard de Laguiche said.  “Some decisions are a bit delayed, except in  emerging
markets ” and countries like  China , where Solvay is pressing
ahead, the CFO said in an interview in Paris. “Expansion
investments are scrutinized in a more critical way at a time
when cash is the priority, and as there’s some volatility and
lack of visibility in demand.”  Solvay has reduced inventories in its polyvinyl chloride
business, which is suffering from a construction slump in
Europe, said De Laguiche, who added that the company is sticking
to 2011 forecasts provided last year to investors. The Brussels-
based company, which has more than 1.5 billion euros ($2
billion) of cash on its balance sheet, is “permanently”
reviewing whether it should use some of it to buy back bonds,
the CFO said.  Solvay, which completed the purchase of  France ’s Rhodia SA
in September to gain leadership positions in rare earths, silica
for car tires and materials used in  consumer goods  such as
detergents, targets a place on France’s benchmark CAC40 Index
following its listing in Paris today.  The company isn’t considering a large  bond 
repurchase program, though “it’s an equation that we’re
permanently updating and which may change rather rapidly,” the
CFO said.  Financial Flexibility  “We must ask ourselves if and when we want to renew short-
term borrowings,” de Laguiche said. “That could be done with
an early reimbursement to borrow longer term,” he said, adding
that the company wants to keep “financial flexibility” to
seize potential investment opportunities while maintaining its
BBB+  credit rating  from S&P.  The company, which is investing cash “extremely
conservatively,” has reduced its holding of French Treasury
bills “a bit” in advance of France’s Jan. 13 downgrade by S&P
to AA+, and has reinvested the money in AAA-rated  money market
funds , the CFO said. “A weak euro is favorable to Solvay
because our cost base is significant” in the area, he said.  PVC in Europe is the “dark spot” in Solvay’s activity at
the moment, Chief Executive Officer Christian Jourquin said at a
press conference in Paris today. About two-thirds of the group’s
businesses are “very resilient,” with  Asia  “doing very well”
and the U.S. picking up slowly, deputy CEO Jean-Pierre Clamadieu
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  