-- South Sudan Begins to Shut Down Oil Production, Government Spokesman Says
-- B y   J a r e d   F e r r i e
-- 2012-01-23T13:39:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/south-sudan-begins-to-shut-down-oil-production-government-spokesman-says.html
South  Sudan  started shutting down
oil production amid a deepening dispute with its northern
neighbor Sudan over transportation fees for its exports.  The shutdown started in the Thar Jath field in Unity state,
government spokesman Barnaba Marial Benjamin said today by phone
from Juba, the capital, and will take two weeks to complete. The
field is run by the White Nile Petroleum Operating Co., whose
partners include Malaysia’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd. and India’s
 ONGC Videsh Ltd. (ONGC) , according to the  company website .  South Sudan says Sudan is seizing exports that pass through
its territory to an export terminal on the  Red Sea  and is
demanding $32 a barrel in transportation fees. Sudan says it is
diverting the crude to cover unpaid bills. South Sudanese
President Salva Kiir today said Sudan has “looted” $815
million worth of his country’s oil.  “At this time we have no guarantee that oil flowing
through the Republic of Sudan will reach its intended
destination,” Kiir told Parliament. “We can’t allow assets
which clearly belong to the Republic of  South Sudan  to be
subject to further diversion.”  South Sudan took control of about three-quarters of Sudan’s
output of 490,000 barrels a day when it gained independence in
July. The crude is pumped mainly by  China National Petroleum
Corp. (CNPZ) , Petronas and and ONGC.  China  imported about 250,000 barrels a day, or more than 65
percent of total Sudanese exports, accounting for 5 percent of
the nation’s imports in 2010, according to data from the U.S.
Energy Department.  Crude Prices  The suspension of oil production by South Sudan, which
pumps crude of a similar quality to Libya, may bolster  oil
prices , Commerzbank AG said.  “Any prolonged discontinuation of South Sudan’s oil
production, in combination with the partial shortfall in Iranian
oil exports, could lead to a tightening of supply on the oil
market and cause prices to rise still further,”  Carsten Fritsch , an analyst in Frankfurt, said in a report.  Brent oil for March settlement advanced $1, or 0.9 percent,
to $110.86 a barrel at 1:36 p.m. on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange in  London .  The government also issued a statement today telling
companies that if they buy or sell “stolen crude” they will be
subject to legal action and said it sent letters to the owners
of ships loaded with southern oil.  “The presumed owners now are on notice that they are being
treated as trafficking in stolen goods,” the government said in
an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jared Ferrie in Juba, South Sudan at 
 jferrie1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  