-- South Carolina Voter Turnout Topped Earlier Republican Contests
-- B y   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2012-01-23T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/south-carolina-voter-turnout-topped-earlier-republican-contests.html
The Republican primary in  South
Carolina  had record turnout, with bigger gains in voter
participation than in  Iowa (STTLIA)  and  New Hampshire  earlier this month.  The Jan. 21 South Carolina vote drew 602,000 Republicans, a
35 percent increase over 2008 participation, as former U.S.
House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  defeated former Massachusetts
governor  Mitt Romney , the front-runner in national Republican
polls. Gingrich received 40 percent of the vote compared with
Romney’s 28 percent.  Yet Republicans beat the previous record of 573,000, set in
the 2000 primary, in part because there was no Democratic
primary and the pool of registered voters is much larger than a
dozen years ago. South Carolina increased its voter registration
to 2.8 million from 2.1 million in 2000, the last time
Republicans had a competitive primary and Democrats didn’t.  “It’s a record that should have fallen, and it did,”
Rhodes Cook, a political analyst and editor of The Rhodes Cook
Letter, said in a telephone interview.  With Obama unopposed for renomination, South Carolina
voters were free to take part in the Republican primary. Voters
don’t register by party in South Carolina, which drew about 1
million voters for the 2008 primaries, including 532,000 for the
Democratic contest and 445,000 for the Republican race.  No Contest  “You would expect some turnout increase in the Republican
contest because there’s no contested Democratic contest,”
Michael McDonald, a political scientist at  George Mason
University  in Fairfax,  Virginia , said in a telephone interview.  Future primaries might show whether Republicans can boost
voter turnout outside the South, a Republican-rich region where
the party’s nominee will carry most states over Obama in the
November election.  Dante Scala, a political scientist at the University of New
Hampshire in Durham, said it’s “hard to disentangle why at this
point” South Carolina showed the first big turnout boost for
Republicans compared to 2008. “I would give some credence to
the theory that it’s a Southern thing,” he said, since  anti-
Obama sentiment is “particularly strong in” South Carolina.  A smaller share of registered voters went to the polls in
the Republican primary this year than in 2000, when 27 percent
of registered voters cast ballots. In that contest, then-Texas
Governor  George W. Bush  won over Arizona Senator John McCain.  South Carolina increased its voter registration by 700,000
during those dozen years, while the increase in turnout was less
than 30,000 votes. About 21.5 percent of voters cast ballots in
this year’s Republican contest.  More Interest  South Carolina voters showed more interest than their
counterparts in Iowa and New Hampshire, where participation was
barely higher than in 2008, even though there weren’t Democratic
contests this year competing for the attention of independents.
Four years ago, then-Senators Obama and  Hillary Clinton  engaged
in a fight for the Democratic nomination.  This year’s Iowa Republican caucuses drew about 122,000
voters, less than 3 percent higher than in 2008 and a smaller
share of the Republican electorate than four years ago.  In New Hampshire, the Republican vote increased by less
than 4 percent, to 248,000 from 240,000.  “Republicans have a long way to go before they are
generally enthusiastic about their candidates and message,”
Barry Burden, a political scientist at the University of
Wisconsin in Madison, said in an e-mail message.  Next Gauge  The next gauge of Republicans’ interest will be in  Florida (BEESFL) ,
where the Jan. 31 primary will award all 50 of the state’s
delegates to the winner. It is the first contest in which only
registered Republicans may vote. About 1.95 million Republicans
participated in the 2008 primary, in which McCain defeated
Romney by 5 percentage points.  Like  Iowa  and New Hampshire, and unlike South Carolina,
 Florida  is a politically competitive state that will help decide
the November election. Obama won Florida over McCain by 3
percentage points in the 2008 election.  After Florida, there will be Republican caucuses in  Maine ,
 Nevada ,  Colorado  and  Minnesota  during the first week of
February. Caucuses draw lower voter turnout than primaries and
place a higher priority on campaign organization.  Arizona (BEESAZ)  and  Michigan (BEESMI)  have primaries on Feb. 28 and
Washington state holds caucuses on March 3. A dozen states hold
primaries or caucuses on March 6, known as “Super Tuesday.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  