-- Spanish Economy Is Poised to Shrink 1.5% This Year, Central Bank Forecasts
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-01-23T11:26:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/spain-s-economy-shrank-in-fourth-quarter-bank-of-spain-says-1-.html
Spain ’s economy contracted in the
fourth quarter and will shrink 1.5 percent this year, the Bank
of Spain estimated, undermining government efforts to cut the
 budget deficit  amid the second recession in two years.  Gross domestic product  fell 0.3 percent in the quarter, the
most in two years, and grew 0.3 percent from a year earlier, the
Madrid-based Bank of Spain said today in its monthly bulletin.  Economic output may decline this year as unemployment
reaches 23.4 percent, returning to growth of 0.2 percent in
2013, the central bank said. The forecasts are based on the
premise that the government will adopt additional austerity
measures to “strictly” meet its budget goals.  Spain’s new government, in power since Dec. 21, is already
showing signs of being split over whether it can meet its pledge
to cut the deficit this year by about half. With the highest
 unemployment  rate in the European Union and credit shrinking by
the most on record, Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro called
yesterday on the EU to ease the deficit goal, contradicting
comments by Deputy Prime Minister Soraya Saenz de Santamaria two
days earlier.  “Spain is set for a difficult 2012 and is likely to be
dragged deeper into the euro-zone debt crisis,”  Ben May , a
European economist at  Capital Economics  in  London , wrote in an
e-mailed note.  Bond Yields  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  is battling to rein in
borrowing costs and convince investors he can repair public
finances and restore growth. The yield on Spain’s benchmark 10-
year bond was 5.457 percent at 12:00 p.m. today in  Madrid ,
compared with 5.487 percent on Jan. 20.  As the economy continues to reel from the collapse of the
property boom in 2008 as well as the fallout from the sovereign
debt crisis, Montoro said yesterday that the EU should revise
the goal for Spain to cut its budget deficit to 4.4 percent of
GDP this year from about 8 percent in 2011. The existing target
was made by the previous Socialist government and was based on a
forecast that the economy would grow 2.3 percent in 2012.  Deficit-reduction should be “realistic” and take into
account the new growth forecasts, Montoro said in comments to La
Vanguardia that were confirmed by his spokeswoman. The interview
was published after Deputy Prime Minister Soraya Saenz de Santamaria, who is also the government’s spokeswoman, said on
Jan. 20 the government is “determined” to meet the goal.  IMF Forecasts  The  International Monetary Fund  estimates Spain’s economy
will contract 1.7 percent this year, according to Ansa news
agency, citing an advanced copy of the lender’s World Economic
Outlook. Montoro said those forecasts, which are due to be
published officially tomorrow, are “realistic.” The government
hasn’t made its own growth estimates and plans to adopt whatever
figures the European Commission publishes next month.  “The important thing is that brave steps are now taken to
allow for a stronger recovery,” Jose Luis Martinez, a
strategist for Spain at Citigroup Inc. in Madrid, said in a
telephone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story: Emma Ross-Thomas in
Madrid at   erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Craig Stirling
at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  