-- Spain’s Two Finance Ministers Clash on Deficit Target as Economy Shrinks
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-01-24T14:31:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/spain-s-two-finance-ministers-clash-on-deficit-target-as-economy-shrinks.html
Economy Minister Luis de Guindos
said Spain is sticking to its deficit goal even as the economy
shrinks, underlining a rift in the month-old Cabinet over
whether the nation can halve its shortfall during a recession.  De Guindos said the government’s commitment to budget cuts
is “total” and there’s “no change” to this year’s target.
His comments in Brussels today came after reporters asked him
about Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro’s call on Jan. 22 for
the European Union to ease Spain’s 2012 deficit goal to take its
shrinking economy into account.  Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  divided the  Finance
Ministry  in two after coming to power in December, putting
People’s Party veteran Montoro in charge of the budget and
giving de Guindos, a former Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
banker, responsibility for the economy. Rajoy didn’t make either
of them deputy prime minister, as the last two finance chiefs
were, saying he would oversee economic issues himself.  “It’s a trial of strength to see who’s really in charge of
economic issues, and Rajoy will just let it happen,” said
Ismael Crespo, a political scientist at the Fundacion Ortega-
Maranon research institute in  Madrid , who was head of the state
polling unit when the PP was last in power.  “Montoro is speaking more to the public and Guindos is
speaking more to the foreigners,” he said in a telephone
interview.  Economy Contracting  Spain ’s government needs to rein in its borrowing costs and
convince investors it can cut the euro region’s third-largest
budget deficit even as the economy enters its second recession
in two years. The Bank of Spain said yesterday the economy
contracted in the fourth quarter and may shrink 1.5 percent in
2012, adding to pressure on Rajoy, who won the Nov. 20 election
on a pledge of creating jobs.  Budget Minister Montoro, a 61-year-old public-finance
professor and lawmaker for Seville, said on Jan. 22 the EU
should ease Spain’s  budget target  of 4.4 percent of gross
domestic product this year as the goal was set by the previous
government, which expected the economy to grow 2.3 percent. The
deficit amounted to 8 percent of GDP last year, overshooting the
6 percent target.  “If Brussels doesn’t adapt the stability program to the
new scenario of a recession, it won’t be realistic and not only
will Spain sink but the whole of  Europe ,” Montoro said in an
interview with La Vanguardia newspaper in comments confirmed by
a Budget Ministry spokeswoman.  Austerity Commitment  EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn 
rejected Montoro’s comments today after a meeting of finance
ministers in Brussels, saying it’s “essential” that Spain
meets the target, and must take more measures to do so.  De Guindos, 52, who described Montoro in December as his
“mentor” and “friend,” said Spain would keep its promises.
The task of attending the European meetings falls to de Guindos,
who speaks fluent English, while Montoro stays in Spain.  “The government’s deficit target is 4.4 percent and there
is no change in this respect,” de Guindos said after the
meeting today.  It isn’t the first time the pair has given differing
messages in the past week. De Guindos, who is not a member of
parliament, wrote in the Wall Street Journal on Jan. 19 that
budget cuts were “not a choice.”  The same day Montoro was quoted as telling the Financial
Times Deutschland newspaper that the nation may miss its budget
goal. The two gave conflicting reports of the 2011 deficit on
Jan. 2, as de Guindos said the overshoot may have been even
greater than the government’s first estimate.  De Guindos’ position on this year’s shortfall is backed up
by Deputy Prime Minister Soraya Saenz de Santamaria, who said on
Jan. 20 that the government was “determined” to meet the
existing target. Rajoy holds a news conference later today after
meeting Portuguese Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  at 5 p.m.
in Lisbon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  