-- Spain Risks Deficit Spiral as Election Postpones Budget Cuts: Euro Credit
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-01-23T10:03:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/spain-risks-deficit-spiral-as-poll-postpones-cuts.html
Spain’s month-old government may
postpone deeper  budget  cuts until after a regional election in
March, adding to the risk the nation misses its deficit goal for
the second year.  The ruling  People’s Party , led by Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy , will contest an election in the southern region of
Andalusia to end 30 years of Socialist rule. Spain’s 10-year
bond yields have risen 10 basis points to 5.5 percent since the
PP government took over on Dec. 21, increasing the rate to 359
basis points more than German  bunds  of similar maturity.  “Rajoy doesn’t want to get burnt before the Andalusian
election,”  Antonio Barroso , an analyst at Eurasia and a former
Spanish government pollster, said in a telephone interview.
“They’re so crucial for the PP that it won’t take any kind of
measure that would undermine its ratings in the region.”  Rajoy needs to slice the equivalent of 3.6 percent of gross
domestic product off the budget  deficit  this year to meet a
European Union target, just as the economy may be entering its
second  recession  in two years. Postponing steps until after the
March 25 election risks undermining confidence in  Spain ’s
ability to meet its goal, which  Fitch Ratings  already has
“doubts” the country will reach.  “Rajoy has yet to explain how he will reduce the deficit
when the economy is shrinking,” said Georg Grodzki, global head
of credit research at London-based Legal & General Investment
Management, which oversees about $515 billion. “I don’t think
Spain can afford to wait for more than two months at the most.”  High Earners  After its second Cabinet meeting on Dec. 30, the PP, which
defines itself as pro-business and opposes higher taxes,
announced 15 billion euros ($19 billion) of budget cuts and
spending of 1.4 billion euros to raise pensions. It increased
income taxes and created a new bracket for those earning more
than 300,000 euros a year, breaking an election pledge and
adopting a Socialist proposal for greater levies on the wealthy.  Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro, who is a member of
parliament for the Andalusian city of Seville, said the
government was asking people “to make a contribution
proportional to their economic ability.”  Looser Target  Montoro called on the EU to ease Spain’s 2012 deficit
target yesterday, saying the goal for this year was based on
outdated growth forecasts. His comments to La Vanguardia
newspaper, which a ministry spokeswoman confirmed, contrast with
pledges by Deputy Minister Soraya Saenz de Santamaria and
Economy Minister Luis de Guindos that the target must be met.  Spain’s economy may shrink 1.5 percent this year if the
government meets its deficit goals “strictly,” the Bank of
Spain estimated today. The economy contracted 0.3 percent in the
fourth quarter from the previous three months, the Madrid-based
central bank said.  Andalusia, which has been run by the Socialists since the
autonomous regions were created1 in 1978, has the third-biggest
economy after Catalonia and Madrid and is the second poorest as
measured by GDP per capita. The  unemployment  rate is the highest
in the country at 31 percent.  The PP controls 11 of the nation’s 17 regions and winning
Andalusia would mean the PP or its allies govern the three
largest districts. Rajoy and his ministers, including Montoro
and the deputy prime minister, have been campaigning during the
weekends in the region.  Target Missed  The states are crucial to Spain’s efforts to cut the  budget
deficit  as they control more than 30 percent of public spending,
hire half of all public workers, and use most of their budgets
for health and education. Their failure to reduce spending last
year was the main reason why the overall shortfall missed its
target, according to Rajoy.  The government estimates the deficit was about 8 percent of
GDP last year, more than the 6 percent targeted by the previous
Socialist government. The 4.4 percent goal for 2012 was made by
the former administration based on a growth forecast of 2.3
percent. Spain’s economy, which stagnated in the third quarter,
is now in recession, Montoro said on Jan. 18.  “Spain may miss the deficit target if it doesn’t implement
further fiscal measures,” said Fadi Zaher, a fixed-income
strategist at  Barclays Wealth  in  London . “The current target
for Spain was set by the former government and was based on
optimistic growth assumptions.”  Fitch Ratings, which has cut Spain twice since May 2010 and
rates Spain AA-, has “doubts” about whether the country can
meet the deficit target this year and next, Managing Director
 Edward Parker  said in Madrid on Jan. 19. Citigroup Inc.
estimates the deficit will amount to 5.6 percent of GDP this
year and UniCredit SpA sees a shortfall of 6.5 percent.  Still, Rajoy pledges to stick to the target and his deputy,
Saenz de Santamaria, said on Jan. 20 that the government is
“determined” to meet its commitments and has the “will” to
do so. The 2012 budget is due in Parliament at the end of March.  “The bulk of economic policy measures will come in
March,” said Javier Del Rey Morato, a political communications
professor at  Madrid ’s Complutense University. The government
“hasn’t shown its hand yet,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  