-- Speculators Raise Wagers on Higher Metals by Most Since July: Commodities
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2012-01-23T20:20:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/speculators-raise-wagers-on-higher-metals-by-most-since-july-commodities.html
Speculators raised bets on higher
metal prices by the most since July, turning bullish on copper
for the first time in four months on signs of growth in the
U.S., increasing demand in  China  and more confidence in  Europe .  Money managers expanded combined net-long positions in five
industrial and precious metals by 13 percent to 152,665 futures
and  options  in the week ended Jan. 17, Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data show. They are now the most bullish on copper
since August. Traders increased holdings in silver, the precious
metal most used in industry, to the highest since November.
Wagers on rising gold prices advanced the most in two months.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot  Index (MXWD)  of 24 commodities has
risen 2.5 percent this month, led by silver, zinc and aluminum.
U.S. jobless claims plunged to the lowest in almost four years
and factory output expanded the most in a year.  Greece  neared an
accord with creditors that will free up a second round of aid
and help contain Europe’s debt crisis. China’s slowest growth in
10 quarters increased speculation the government will allow
banks to increase lending.  “It’s a play on a possible demand recovery,” said Spencer Patton, the Chicago-based chief investment officer for Steel
Vine Investments LLC. “People are now accepting gradually that
the Europe situation is not that terrible, and China will
probably have a soft landing. And the icing on the cake is the
growth in the U.S.”  Prices Rise  The S&P  GSCI (SPGSCI)  increased this year as the MSCI All-Country
World  Index (MXWD)  of equities advanced 5 percent, with $1.6 trillion
added to the value of global stocks. The U.S. Dollar Index, a
measure against six trading partners, is down 0.5 percent today
after falling 1.6 percent last week, the most since October. The
yield on 10-year Treasuries climbed 12 basis points, or 0.12
percentage point, to 2.02 percent since Jan. 1, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  Cattle and orange juice jumped to records as 13 of the 24
raw materials tracked by the S&P GSCI advanced last week. Gold
rallied to a one-month high, and nickel reached its highest
since September.  “It’s a good time for commodities,” said  James Paulsen ,
who helps oversee about $333 billion of assets as chief
investment strategist at Minneapolis-based Wells Capital
Management. “Prices are bottoming out, and you saw the move in
metals.”  Copper Outlook  Copper futures that dropped to a 14-month low in October
are up 11 percent this month, heading for the biggest January
rally since 2003.  Hedge funds  and other money managers had a
net-long position of 4,775 contracts last week, after betting on
lower prices for 17 consecutive weeks, the longest bearish
stretch since July 2009, CFTC data show.  Copper for March delivery advanced 1.4 percent to settle at
$3.7985 a pound on the Comex, climbing the most in almost a
week.  Confidence among U.S. homebuilders, the biggest users of
copper, rose in January to the highest level in more than four
years, the National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo
sentiment gauge showed Jan. 18. A typical house uses about 400
pounds (181 kilograms) of copper pipes and wire.  The  Federal Reserve  reported Jan. 18 that U.S. factory
output climbed 0.9 percent last month, the most since December
2010. Unemployment claims dropped by 50,000 to 352,000 in the
week ended Jan. 14, the lowest level since April 2008, the Labor
Department said on Jan. 19.  Gross domestic product in China, the biggest consumer of
everything from zinc to copper to cotton, expanded 8.9 percent
in the last three months of 2011 from a year earlier, the
slowest pace in 10 quarters, the statistics bureau said Jan. 17.  Jump Start  Nouriel Roubini , the economist who predicted the 2008
financial crisis, told Bloomberg TV on Jan. 20 that the Chinese
government will need to “jump start the economy” by easing
lending curbs and  interest rates  to avoid “a significant growth
slowdown this year.”  Net-long positions in  gold  rose 5.9 percent to 116,978
contracts, the first increase since Dec. 6, CFTC data show.
Holdings in silver expanded 13 percent to 13,139 contracts, the
third straight gain and the highest total since Nov. 15. Prices
for both metals rallied for a third week.  The net-long position in platinum, used in catalytic
converters for cars, rose 13 percent to 14,122 contracts, while
palladium holdings rose to 3,651 contracts, up 6.9 percent, the
most in more than a month, CFTC data show. Palladium prices
jumped 6.4 percent last week, the most since December.  European Debt  Hans Humes, the president of Greylock Capital Management
and a member of the creditor committee negotiating the debt-swap
accord with the Greek government, told Bloomberg TV on Jan. 20
that “significant progress” was made on reaching an agreement.  Investors pulled $253 million out of commodity funds in the
week ended Jan. 18, according to Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
EPFR Global, which tracks money flows. Gold and precious-metals
outflows totaled $259 million, he said.  The sovereign-debt crisis in Europe has prompted “de-
risking” among investors, Laurence D. Fink, the chief executive
officer of BlackRock Inc., said in a Jan. 19 conference call.  Even with the increase in metals wagers, net-long positions
across 18 U.S. futures and options fell by 8.9 percent to
655,654 contracts last week, CFTC data shows. That included
reduced holdings in oil and corn.  “Most people are not sure what will emerge out of Europe
and when China will loosen monetary policy,” said Jeffrey Sica,
the Morristown, New Jersey-based president of SICA Wealth
Management who helps oversee $1 billion of assets. “The rise
that we saw in commodity prices may be very temporary.”  Farm Goods  A measure of 11 U.S. farm goods showed speculators lowered
wagers on higher agricultural commodities by 22 percent, the
biggest drop since November. While bullish holdings in corn fell
21 percent to 176,309 contracts as of Jan. 17, prices gained 2
percent in the week ended Jan. 20. Speculators increased their
net-short position in wheat by 39 percent to 49,496 contracts,
as prices ended the week up 1.4 percent.  “At this point, some investors are willing to give Europe
a pass,” said  John Stephenson , who helps manage $2.7 billion of
assets at First Asset Investment Management Inc. in Toronto.
“Strong data out of the U.S. is good, and some commodities are
attractive at current prices, so things are beginning to get
more promising.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  