-- Allen Stanford Trial Begins as Indigent Ex-Billionaire Claims Memory Loss
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-01-24T01:09:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/stanford-s-trial-to-begin-as-indigent-ex-billionaire-claiming-memory-loss.html
The R. Allen Stanford who arrived at
the Houston federal courthouse in shackles to start his
$7 billion investment fraud trial today is far different from
the  Texas  billionaire prosecutors indicted 2 1/2 years ago.  Weeks before his June 2009 indictment, Stanford strode into
the same courthouse with a high-profile defense lawyer and
volunteered to surrender. U.S. marshals declined at the time to
arrest the Stanford Group Co. founder, then estimated by Forbes
to be worth $2.2 billion.  “I’m not a damn swindler,” Stanford said weeks before he
was charged. He vowed to clear his name, take back assets seized
by securities regulators, and repay more than 20,000 investors
he’s accused of defrauding through allegedly bogus certificates
of deposit at Antigua-based Stanford International Bank Ltd.  Now 61 and visibly thinner, Stanford has endured a string
of setbacks since he was indicted and jailed because prosecutors
said he might try to flee. In September 2009, he suffered broken
facial bones in a beating by another inmate and became addicted
to anti-anxiety medications prescribed by prison doctors after
the attack. After eight months in a prison rehabilitation unit,
Stanford claims he still can’t remember much of his life or
details of his once far-flung business empire, according to his
lawyers.  ‘Almost Impossible’  “In a complex financial fraud case, it’s almost impossible
for defense counsel with even substantial resources to put on a
good defense without the active participation of their client,”
said Barry Pollack, a white-collar defense attorney with Miller
& Chevalier in  Washington  who isn’t involved in the case. “His
attorneys are hamstrung without his help.”  Stanford’s insurance company successfully sued him in jail
to avoid paying his legal defense costs. With all his corporate
and personal possessions seized by U.S. securities regulators in
a parallel civil fraud case, he was declared indigent and given
taxpayer-funded attorneys by U.S. District Judge David Hittner,
who is overseeing the criminal trial.  The judge interviewed 80 prospective jurors today,
questioning them to determine possible bias for or against the
former financier. About a fourth of them said they had some
familiarity with Stanford’s story. By day’s end, more than half
of the panelists had been sent home, while Hittner detained the
rest for further questioning in his chambers.  The judge told them to return to court tomorrow.  The financier’s entire defense team tried to quit earlier
this month. Contractors complained they hadn’t been paid in
months, and his lawyers insisted time and budget constraints
imposed by the courts had left them unable to defend Stanford
adequately against charges that could imprison him for more than
20 years. Hittner disagreed and ordered the team to prepare for
trial as scheduled.  Caribbean Island  Prosecutors accuse Stanford of skimming more than $1
billion in investor deposits to fund a lavish lifestyle --
including yachts, a fleet of jets, cricket teams and a private
Caribbean island -- and to support multiple women, several of
whom crowded into court almost three years ago with their
children to support the financier. The Stanford entourage has
since dwindled to occasional courtroom appearances by his mother
and a lone female admirer, who says she also visits him
regularly in prison.  ‘False Pretenses’  Lead prosecutor Gregg Costa said the government will prove
Stanford “obtained CD proceeds under false pretenses.” Any
value represented by Stanford’s other holdings is irrelevant in
light of misrepresentations Stanford made to customers
concerning the safety, oversight and performance of their
investments, Costa said last week in court filings.  “It was bait and switch,” Assistant U.S. Attorney William
Stellmach said at a Jan. 18 hearing. “He told depositors that
their money was in safe, conservative, highly liquid
investments. In fact, billions of dollars were diverted to
various personal businesses and investments that he himself
owned.”  Houston attorneys Ali Fazel and Robert Scardino, Stanford’s
lead defense counsel, said they’ll use thousands of bank and
business records to show jurors the financier never intended to
defraud anyone. They claim no investor lost money until the
government stepped in and seized the businesses, destroying
their value. Stanford International Bank stumbled in the same
global financial meltdown that tripped up banks worldwide in
late 2008, they said.  Second Biggest  Prosecutors say Stanford’s alleged fraud is the second-
largest  Ponzi scheme  in U.S. history. Only the estimated
$20 billion in investor principal taken by confessed swindler
 Bernard Madoff , the New York investment manager, ranks larger,
according to the government.  The missing billions of dollars prosecutors claim Stanford
misappropriated were actually used to fund startup companies,
real-estate ventures and other investments intended to keep
above-average returns flowing to investors in the  Antiguan  bank
CDs, his lawyers said. These assets account for the missing
investor funds, they claimed. The defense will demonstrate that
Stanford’s accountants were working on rolling them onto the
bank’s books when regulators stepped in, Fazel told Hittner.  “There was a consolidation project under way, not just
something they were talking about, but that they were doing,”
Fazel said at the Jan. 18 court hearing. “The government’s
contention that this is fraud is just wrong.”  ‘Very Challenging’  Hittner told the prospective jurors that the trial would be
“very, very challenging” and last about six weeks.  “It’s about as interesting a case as you can find anywhere
in the country,” the judge said. Fourteen jurors will be
selected, including two alternates. The alternates won’t learn
who they are until the evidence has been presented and
deliberations are about to begin.  “Anybody ever been to Antigua and Barbuda?” Hittner asked
the prospective jurors, after finishing his introductory
remarks. He then started describing Antigua-based Stanford
International Bank Ltd. and the Stanford Group Co., which is
incorporated in Texas.  Several jurors said they’d heard or read media coverage of
the criminal and civil cases. One potential panelist said his
employer had done advertising and promotional work for
Stanford’s businesses while another said he’d been sent to
Antigua to assess a Stanford property.  ‘Afraid So’  Several of the prospects said they had banking and
accounting backgrounds, still others said they worked in the oil
and gas industry. Many said they had prior experience as jurors
and some as litigants.  When Hittner asked the 80th juror if she had heard anything
that might affect her ability to be impartial, she replied,
“I’m afraid so” before Hittner cut her off and asked her to
join the queue to speak with him in chambers.  Stanford’s court-appointed receiver in the regulatory case
continues to sell assets to help repay investors and creditors.
The receiver traded away Stanford’s right to use his own name in
business to end a trademark lawsuit by  Stanford University .
Stanford had claimed he’s related to the school’s founder, a
boast which prosecutors said they’ll tell jurors is false.  If Stanford is convicted, prosecutors said they’ll ask to
keep him in prison for what amounts to the rest of his life.
Acquittal wouldn’t return his wealth.  Asset Liquidation  “The asset liquidation is all happening outside of the
criminal process and would’ve happened without the criminal
charges,” Pollack said, comparing Stanford International Bank
to a business in involuntary bankruptcy. If Stanford is
acquitted in the criminal case, he will gain little advantage in
fighting the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s
allegations because of the lower burden of proof in civil cases,
Pollack said.  “It’s not uncommon that someone can be acquitted
criminally and still be found civilly liable,” he said. “A
jury can say, ‘we’re not 98 percent sure you committed fraud,
but we’re at least 51 percent sure you did.’”  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank, 09-cv-298, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Texas ( Dallas ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  