-- Programmers Size Up Bank Borrowers With Algorithms Rather Than FICO Scores
-- B y   A r i   L e v y   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-01-23T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/startups-size-up-loan-candidates-with-algorithms-rather-than-fico-scores.html
For more than 40 years, banks have
counted on FICO scores to determine the credit worthiness of
American consumers. Now a handful of entrepreneurs in  California 
say it’s time for a smarter way to size up borrowers.  Los Angeles-based  ZestCash Inc. , along with  San Francisco 
startups BillFloat Inc. and LendingClub Corp., are hiring
computer programmers to write software that can better identify
candidates for loans -- including people with low credit scores.
The companies, backed by venture money, also aim to provide
lower fees and interest rates than banks.  “There hasn’t been a lot of innovation in the space for a
while, and it’s time for that to happen,” said Rebecca Lynn, a
partner at  Menlo Park , California-based Morgenthaler Ventures,
which is backing LendingClub. “We’re looking at companies that
are doing new underwriting and using new underwriting methods.”  The idea is to use technology to root out potential fraud
and give more finely tuned assessments than  FICO (FICO) , named for Fair
Isaac Corp. Rather than just looking at black marks on a
person’s credit score, new software can analyze how someone uses
money on a daily basis, giving more insight into whether they
will pay back the loan. Like other Internet companies, the new
crop of lenders will keep operating costs down by delivering
loan applications and services over the Web -- instead of having
to maintain physical branches.  Fair Isaac  FICO, founded in 1956, is used by 90 of the largest 100
U.S. financial institutions, according to its website. FICO
takes into account a potential borrower’s debt outstanding,
payment habits and length of credit history and provides a score
that ranges from 300 to 850. The median last year was 711, and
lenders vary on what they consider a good credit score.  People like Holly Dickerson are benefiting from newer
approaches to lending. Dickerson, a youth counselor in St.
Charles,  Missouri , needed a loan last year to have her son’s
braces removed, pay her dad back for some borrowed money and
afford rent at two apartments following a divorce.  Her  FICO score  was too low to qualify for a loan from her
local credit union, and she didn’t want to use a payday lender.
With ZestCash, the 49-year-old was able to fill out an
application online and was shortly approved for a $400 loan, due
in installments over six months.  “When I went to the bank, they said I needed a credit
rating of 600, and I was below that,” she said. “The
installment program makes it so much easier to pay off the loan
as opposed to having this big chunk.”  Finding Niches  The startups are each going after a different piece of the
lending market. ZestCash is taking on payday lenders by
providing loans of $300 to $800 that can get repaid over three
to eight months.  BillFloat  provides smaller loans -- up to $225
-- to pay specific services, such as electricity or mobile-phone
bills. LendingClub focuses on prime borrowers and offers up to
$35,000 for loans that let customers consolidate debt, remodel
their homes and pay medical expenses.  Douglas Merrill, Google Inc.’s former chief information
officer and the founder of ZestCash, said FICO scores ignore
much of the digital data that’s been created by online activity
and transactions. He’s almost doubled his staff to 75 since
July, hiring mostly mathematicians and programmers to come up
with an algorithm that produces more reliable scores.  Merrill started ZestCash in 2009 with Shawn Budde, a former
senior vice president at  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF)  By
combining homegrown Web-crawling tools with underwriting
expertise, ZestCash uses more than 1,000 variables to determine
a score and issue loans that the company says are about half the
price of payday loans. Customers typically use the money to pay
rent, catch up on health bills and get their cars fixed.  Large Market  U.S. payday lenders in the U.S. will issue $40 billion in
loans in 2016, up from $33 billion last year, according to a
report this month from JMP Securities LLC.  ZestCash said last week that it raised $73 million in
equity and debt financing from investors such as  Matrix Partners 
and Victory Park Capital. About two-thirds of the capital will
be used to finance loans. The service is currently available in
four states, and the company is working with regulators to
expand into additional states this year.  BillFloat  has raised in $16 million from investors,
including Venrock Associates and  EBay Inc.’s (EBAY)  PayPal unit. It’s
now in talks with investors for another funding round, said
Chief Executive Officer Ryan Gilbert.  Forging Partnerships  The startup is teaming up with banks,  utility companies  and
cable providers to provide loans specifically to pay bills. When
customers apply for a loan, they agree to let the company look
into their checking account to analyze  money flow . The company’s
software looks at bill payment history, plots debits and
credits, and determines the likelihood of a timely repayment.  “There’s a huge demand for alternative credit,” Gilbert
said. Banks are “dependent on FICO and risk models that are
trying to be one-size-fits-all.”  FICO, based in  Minneapolis , says its scores aren’t meant to
assess a person’s ability to pay.  “The vast majority of lenders use FICO scores to help them
assess the likelihood that a consumer will default on a credit
obligation within the next 24 months,” said Craig Watts, the
company’s public affairs director. FICO also is working with
CoreLogic Inc. to develop a new type of credit-risk score that
relies on a broader range of data.  BillFloat charges a fee of $5 to $15 to process the bill,
plus 3 percent monthly interest, and it requires that the
borrower pay BillFloat back within 30 days. Banks may see enough
value in his technology to eventually license it, Gilbert said.  Oracle Veteran  LendingClub, co-founded by former Oracle Corp. executive
Renaud Laplanche, also peers into applicants’ checking accounts.
Much of the company’s technology concentrates on fraud
detection, developed with the help of Chaomei Chen, the former
chief risk officer at JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s credit card unit.  LendingClub, which began issuing loans in 2007, focuses on
lenders with better credit and offers  interest rates  that are
less than half the average credit-card rate. In August, the
company raised  $25 million  from investors, including Union
Square Ventures.  “There are just so many things that aren’t covered by the
credit score,” said Ian Cohen, CEO of San Francisco-based
Credit.com, who has worked with LendingClub. “If I can engage
the user, I can learn if they are bad risks right now. I will
also see positive things that the bank might not see.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  