-- Starbucks to Add Wine at More Cafes to Lure Evening Diners
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-01-23T21:54:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/starbucks-to-add-alcohol-at-more-cafes-to-lure-evening-customers.html
Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) , the world’s largest
coffee-shop chain, will sell beer and wine at more locations to
lure customers during the slower afternoon and evening hours.  The chain, which first served alcohol in October 2010 at a
Seattle store, will sell beer and wine in as many as 25
locations by the end of this year, the Seattle-based company
said in a statement today. Stores in  Chicago , Atlanta and
 Southern California  are among the new locations, Starbucks said.  The specific stores have been “carefully selected” and
are larger and have more seating than regular Starbucks sites,
Clarice Turner, senior vice president of U.S. operations, said
in an interview today. Starbucks also is selling fruit-and-
cheese plates and focaccia with olive oil at the stores that
serve alcohol, she said. The company isn’t considering the
concept for the whole chain, Turner said.  “It won’t be at every Starbucks store ever,” she said.  At the six stores that now sell alcohol in Seattle and
 Portland ,  Oregon , beer is $5 and glasses of wine are $7 to $9.
Starbucks is creating the bar menu “so it’s relevant to local
taste preferences,” Turner said, declining to name specific
brands that the stores will carry.  Starbucks  fell  1.7 percent to $47.34 at the close in  New
York . The shares gained 43 percent last year.  ‘Plenty of Business’  “They have plenty of business in the morning,” Sara Senatore, a New York-based analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.
who rates the shares “outperform,” said in an interview.
Starbucks isn’t making full use of its workers and real estate
in the later part of the day, she said.  Other restaurants, such as  Dunkin’ Brands Group Inc. (DNKN) ’s
Dunkin’ Donuts chain, have introduced non-breakfast foods to
attract people after the morning hours.  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  sells
coffee drinks, smoothies and McSnack wraps during its slower
afternoon time.  Selling alcohol probably won’t hurt profit at Starbucks,
Senatore said. Most alcoholic beverages have about a 75 percent
margin, which is comparable to coffee drinks, she said.  There could be some additional expenses for bartenders,
insurance and licensing, Senatore said.  “The incremental costs are really going to be about
labor,” she said.  There are more than 10,700 Starbucks cafes in the U.S. and
about 6,200 internationally.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  