-- Star Art Knight Allen Lambastes Fake Divas, Divos: Interview
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2012-01-23T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/star-art-knight-allen-lambastes-fake-divas-divos-interview.html
Once a popular musician or writer
has been around the block a few times, he acquires the tag
“national treasure.” It’s the kind of pat on the head that
usually spells creative death. Not for Thomas Allen.  The 67-year-old baritone, who is celebrating both 40 years
of singing at the  Royal Opera House  in London and his
appointment last October as chancellor of  Durham University , is
as fired up as he has ever been.  “It’s because I’m curious about so much,” he says when I
meet him at Covent Garden. “If you’ve got curiosity, it has an
effect on every aspect of your life. I delve into bird life,
painting, building boats, other things too, and it spills over
into what I do as an artist. You need curiosity to live a full
life.”  The burly Allen, a former rugby player from a mining family
who was knighted by  Queen Elizabeth II  in 1999, has a voice with
a melodious lilt born of his roots in the northeast of  England .
He’s straight out of rehearsal when we meet, and looks relaxed
in casual clothes. His latest role, one of his favorites, is as
the manipulative Don Alfonso in Mozart’s “Cosi fan tutte.”  Where is his curiosity leading him with Alfonso? “This is
maybe the 17th or 18th revival I’ve been in, and I’m still
learning about the role,” Allen says. “Why is he so cynical?
Why does he keep his accomplice Despina in the dark? I feel I
have to create a back story. There’s surely something to do with
his feeling toward women, and Despina in particular. A lot of
antipathy.”  Complex Alfonso  So the role is still changing? “Maybe in the past I played
Alfonso as a stock character with lots of humor. Now I see
aspects of the text that are barbed. I’m not trying to avoid
them, or make him seem like a nice guy.”  Allen is as celebrated for the detail and humor of his
acting as for his dark, silken voice. He can do a double take,
or time a gesture, with the precision of a vaudevillian. Did he
learn that, or is it a given instinct?  “A bit of both,” he says. “As a teenager, I don’t think
I ever had to be told how to perform, I just knew it. Then I
learned proper stagecraft, how to behave on an opera stage. And
I go to the pictures a lot, and the theater, and I watch people.
I accumulate experience from all those things.”  When Allen gave a speech in 2002 to the  Royal Philharmonic
Society , criticizing the dumbing down of classical-music
recordings, he said he had got more attention than in all his
(then) 30 years of singing.  Real Thing  Has anything changed since then? “No. It all still stands.
I refuse to give in to this fake popularization and low-brow
quality, and people claiming to be opera singers when they’ve
never sung in an opera. It’s a deceit. Those singers could never
do the real thing, here in the Royal Opera, where the non-
bastardized version takes place.”  He says this genially, as if aware that life’s too short
for being grumpy. He moves on to some of his happier memories.  “Opera is an odd medium, and there’s a lot to poke fun
at,” says Allen. “I’ve had numerous experiences when a fellow
performer was less-than-credible physically. Someone like
Pavarotti, for example. I remember I was in “ La Boheme ” and we
were all annoyed because he hadn’t turned up to any rehearsals.
Then, on stage, he opened his mouth, and there was something
about the power of his voice that transcended everything else.
Being so close to it on stage, it had an amazing impact. I used
to watch him, and sit and stare and admire. Then I had to try
and remember to sing afterward. It was a tough act to follow.”  Trim Symbol  Has Allen faced much pressure to keep trim himself? “I was
given the role of Adam in Penderecki’s “Paradise Lost.” Though
I thought I was pretty fit and trim, the director Sam Wanamaker
said I had to lose weight. I had to be a symbol of perfect
humanity.” he looks down. “I wonder what he’d say if he saw me
now?”  A career of 40 years at the world’s top opera houses must
have helped build a tidy nest egg. Does he spend it on luxuries?
“I’m too conservative, too careful. I was never used to money,
didn’t grow up with it, and I’ve always found it difficult to
get used to having any around. Though I’ve bought the odd
picture over the years. I love Stanley Spencer,  David Hockney ,
Peter Blake.” Were they bought as an investment? “No, never. I
just bought what appealed to me.”  What has been the greatest change he has seen in his long
career? “The old Royal Opera, before the restoration in 1999,
had wonderful memories for me,” Allen says. “It also had
filthy showers, terrible dressing rooms, and was tatty and
unkempt. You can’t compare it with what we have now, a fully
functional 21st-century theater.”  Though it’s time to go, Allen still finds time to tell me
about his plans for a cross-fertilization of arts and sciences
that he wants to set rolling in Durham, his hometown.  Maybe it’s a pipe dream. Maybe he has the energy to pull it
off. Whatever the result, it’s another manifestation of the
restless curiosity -- to see more, to find out more -- that
drives him.  “Cosi fan tutte” opens at the Royal Opera,  London , on
Jan. 27. Information: http:// www.roh.org.uk  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of the story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 