-- Stasi Hunt Winds Through Concrete Maze to Checkpoint Charlie
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2012-01-23T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/stasi-hunt-winds-through-concrete-maze-to-checkpoint-charlie.html
The first time I tried to find the
Stasi headquarters in Berlin I got lost. About 10 years ago, a
group of five of us battled through gray East Berlin streets,
lashed by icy wind and sleet.  We eventually abandoned our spy hunt in favor of coffee and
radiators. It turned out the street number was misprinted in our
guidebook. We imagined a possible conspiracy.  Since then I’ve visited the  Stasi Museum  a few times. It
recently reopened after a refurbishment funded with 11 million
euros ($14 million) from the government’s 2009 economic stimulus
package. It’s next to a building that houses Stasi files
stretching for kilometers. Citizens can apply to consult them.  Visitors to Berlin seeking an insight into the communist
dictatorship should go to the museum. Choose a cold, wet day for
full effect. The former Ministry for State Security is a
concrete complex in the dingy district of Lichtenberg, a
labyrinth featuring the worst of East German architecture --
oppressive, uniform, dreary, cheap and indifferent to its
surroundings and occupants.  The buildings are numbered with no obvious logic: House 1
adjoins House 7, and faces House 22. From House 1, Minister for
State Security Erich Mielke oversaw what was known as the
world’s most omnipresent national spy network, with 91,000
permanent employees and another 190,000 informal collaborators.  Punks, Churchgoers  As an organ of state-sanctioned terror and repression, the
Stasi had unlimited access to information about East German
citizens. Suspected enemies of the communist state included
churchgoers, environmentalists, punks and artists.  Yet anyone could become a target of the Stasi’s methods.
Its operatives steamed open mail and resealed it, conducted
secret apartment searches for incriminating evidence of dissent,
planted listening devices and cameras and recruited
acquaintances, friends and even family to report the most banal
details and conversations.  The ministry was sealed from the outside world until 1990,
when protesters stormed and occupied the complex. What they
found was surprisingly modest, given Mielke’s power. The archaic
equipment and dismal decor are on public display in his former
offices in House 1 -- flimsy furniture, yellowing lace curtains,
ill-fitting rugs and depressing greenish walls.  Nasty Lino  This presented a challenge to those behind the recent
renovation. How do you freshen up something whose very trademark
is drabness?  The answer is to approach it as a heritage site and work
discreetly, even going so far as to recreate the nasty linoleum,
analyze the chemicals in the horrid paint and replace crumbly
bits of gray plaster on the grim facade. The barely perceptible
additions include new fire escapes, insulation, plumbing and
heating and wheelchair access.  There is a basic interim exhibition in House 1 until a
permanent show takes its place in 2013. The display includes
cameras disguised behind coat buttons, a pile of Stasi wooden
stamps and short biographies of Stasi agents and their victims.  I was disappointed that the sinister jars of smells that
used to be there were gone. Bizarrely, Stasi agents sought to
capture people’s scent by surreptitiously attaching little
pieces of cloth to suspects’ clothing or their chairs. These
samples then were stored in carefully labeled jars so that,
should the need arise, dogs would be able to track them.  Smell Jars  I found out that the smell jars have gone to a newly opened
permanent exhibition at an “ Education Center ” near Checkpoint
Charlie, at Zimmerstrasse 90. Though chiefly targeted at German
school groups, a good chunk of the display is translated into
English for tourists.  The rooms are too sanitized to give any sense of
atmosphere. It feels strictly educational. Yet there are some
gems -- like Mielke’s locked red briefcase containing papers
incriminating the East German leader Erich Honecker.  The Stasi chief carried it around with him all the time;
evidence that no one was exempt from paranoia in that regime of
fear. Mielke, who was 82 by the time he left office in 1989, was
sentenced to prison in 1993 for murdering two policemen before
World War II. He died in 2000 at 92 after being released from
prison ahead of schedule in 1995 because of ill health.  Stasi surveillance films capture punks hanging out on
street corners and congregations milling outside church after
services. A guide to disguises worn by Stasi spies portrays a
model in a wig so bad you’d think people would stop in the
street to stare at it, a chunky cable-knit cardigan and goofy
spectacles.  To get a full overview of the extent of the Stasi’s terror,
go to the prison at  Hohenschoenhausen  in the suburbs of Berlin.
Access is only via a guided tour, usually conducted by former
prisoners. Tours in English are available once a day.  For more information on the Stasi Museum, go to
 http://www.stasimuseum.de . For more on the Bildungszentrum, see
 http://www.bstu.bund.de/DE/Wissen/Bildung/ . For more information
on Hohenschoenhausen, go to  http://en.stiftung-hsh.de/index.php .  (Catherine Hickley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 