-- STMicroelectronics Predicts First-Quarter Sales Decline on Wireless Slump
-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 2012-01-24T09:11:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/stmicroelectronics-posts-fourth-quarter-loss-as-sales-decline.html
STMicroelectronics NV (STM) , Europe’s
largest semiconductor maker, predicted that first-quarter
revenue will fall as much as 10 percent from the previous three
months because of lower sales at its wireless business.  Revenue will decline to within a range of $1.97 billion to
$2.1 billion from $2.19 billion in the fourth quarter because of
“a very significantly weaker revenue performance from ST-
Ericsson,” its wireless-chip joint venture with  Ericsson AB (ERICB) ,
the Geneva-based company said in a statement.  “ST-Ericsson continues to struggle in its transition to
its new products,” said Jon Erensen, an analyst at research
firm Gartner Inc. “The outlook for 2012 is disappointing and
ST-Ericsson will need to turn the business around quickly or it
may find it difficult to get into serious engagements with
customers worried about its financial situation.”  ST-Ericsson  hasn’t been profitable since its formation in
2009. The venture, which is shifting to new products, said its
fourth-quarter net loss widened to $231 million from $177
million a year earlier. Net sales fell to $409 million from $577
million.  STMicroelectronics fell as much as 7.9 percent to 5.18
euros, the biggest intraday drop since Oct. 25, and was down 4.6
percent at 10:09 a.m. in Paris trading, giving it a market value
of 4.89 billion euros ($6.4 billion).  Nokia’s Woes  “Last year, the ST-Ericsson joint venture suffered
unprecedented challenges in terms of their major customer and
its change of strategy,” STMicroelectronics Chief Executive
Officer  Carlo Bozotti  said in a Bloomberg Television interview
today, referring to handset maker  Nokia Oyj. (NOK1V)  ST-Ericsson “is
focusing on improving execution and an important priority for
this year is lowering the breakeven point for the operations.”
The rest of STMicroelectronics “is pretty solid,” he said.  Nokia has had difficulty producing handsets that can
compete with Apple Inc.’s iPhone or models running Google Inc.’s
Android. In November, the company released its first smartphones
in Europe running Microsoft Corp. software, a bid to turn around
its fortunes.  “We see the opportunity to continue to grow in selected
markets during 2012, but we remain concerned about the
macroeconomic uncertainty,” Bozotti said. The company is
running its plants at less than full capacity, he said. “Based
on current visibility we believe bookings have bottomed.”  Speed of Recovery  The company is “confident about the recovery” of the chip
market, “but we’re not clear on the speed of such
recovery,” Bozotti said in a briefing today.  Asked whether ST-Ericsson may make further job cuts,
Bozotti said: “We’re not in a position to give any details.
There are many things that can be done but it’s premature to
comment on those.”  ST-Ericsson named Didier Lamouche as its new CEO in
November to help it gain share in the growing market for
smartphone chips. Lamouche has been asked by the parent
companies to carry out a review of the venture’s strategic plan
and financial prospects. Even as STMicroelectronics is “firmly
committed” to supporting ST-Ericsson, it may consider
“additional actions” to accelerate ST-Ericsson’s path to
profitability, according to the statement.  Possible Writedowns  “In such an event, or in case of a significant worsening
of business prospects, the value of ST-Ericsson for ST could
decrease to a value significantly lower than the current
carrying amount of ST-Ericsson on our books and we may be
required to take an impairment charge,” the company said.  In June, ST-Ericsson announced cost cuts aimed at saving
$120 million a year and dropped its target date to become
profitable. The venture previously predicted it would break even
in the second quarter of this year. Exane BNP Paribas analyst
Jerome Ramel said in a note that he doesn’t “see how ST-
Ericsson can return to breakeven with the current cost base.”  “It is clear that both sales and operating results will
continue to be challenging over the coming quarters, due to the
reduction in the short term of new product sales with one of our
largest customers,” Lamouche said in the statement.  Bozotti said today that the new management at ST-Ericsson
is reviewing the business plan, “the roadmap to sustainable
profitability,” as there are opportunities such as “extracting
more synergies in cooperating with the two parents, working on
the products and expanding the customer base.” The new plan
will be formalized during the first quarter, he said.  Profit Margin  STMicroelectronics posted a loss in the fourth quarter as
demand for chips decreased amid  Europe ’s financial crisis. The
net loss was $11 million, compared with net income of $219
million a year earlier. Sales declined 23 percent to $2.19
billion. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg had estimated a net loss
of $30.6 million and revenue of $2.22 billion.  STMicroelectronics forecast that the first-quarter gross
margin, the percentage of revenue left after subtracting
manufacturing costs, will be about 33 percent, plus or minus 1.5
percentage points, from 33.4 percent in the fourth quarter
“reflecting an improved, but still high level of unsaturation
at our facilities.”  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN)  reported fourth-quarter sales and
profit yesterday that topped analysts’ estimates, signaling that
the market for electronic components is pulling out of a slump.
The Dallas-based company is the world’s largest maker of analog
chips -- semiconductors that are key components in everything
from satellites to refrigerators.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  