-- Most Swiss Stocks Advance as EU Finance Ministers Meet on Crisis
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-01-23T17:03:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/stocks-in-switzerland-are-little-changed-before-eu-finance-ministers-meet.html
Most  Swiss stocks  advanced as
European Union finance ministers met in Brussels and bondholders
said they’ve made their “maximum offer” in negotiating a debt
swap with Greece.  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , Switzerland’s biggest
lenders, followed the region’s banking shares higher. Trading on
Petroplus Holdings AG, the Swiss refiner trying to avoid
bankruptcy, was suspended at the company’s request.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI) , a measure of the biggest and most
actively traded companies, added 0.1 percent to 6,127.67 at the
close in Zurich. Fourteen shares advanced in the 20-member
gauge, while the rest declined. The SMI rallied last week amid
signs that the  U.S. economy  is recovering and on speculation
 China  will take measures to spur economic growth. The broader
Swiss Performance Index added 0.2 percent today.  “Ongoing negotiations in Greece do not appear to make
participants particularly nervous,” said Konstantin Giantiroglou, head of investment advisory at Neue Aargauer Bank
AG in Brugg,  Switzerland . “Considering the market’s rise since
the beginning of the year, I would say that a slight correction
is certainly normal.”  EU finance ministers are meeting in Brussels to discuss new
budget rules, a financial firewall to protect indebted states
and a Greek debt swap, with leaders racing to cobble together a
firm rescue plan in the coming weeks. Meanwhile, cash-strapped
 Greece (GDBR10)  and private bondholders said they had made progress in
talks over the weekend in Athens.  The gauge has rallied 3.2 percent since the beginning of
this year as economic reports around the world exceeded
forecasts and falling bond yields in the euro area eased concern
that the debt crisis is spreading.  ‘Maximum’ Offer  Bondholders negotiating a debt swap with  Greece  have made
their “maximum offer,” leaving it to the European Union and
 International Monetary Fund  to decide whether to accept the
deal, said  Charles Dallara , who’s representing private creditors
in the talks.  Dallara, managing director of the Institute of
International Finance, said he’s hopeful the EU and IMF will
agree to terms for private investor involvement in a rescue of
Greece to avert a default and collapse of the economy.  UBS and Credit Suisse rose 1.9 percent to 12.89 Swiss
francs and 1.5 percent to 24.61 francs, respectively. A gauge of
European banks was the best performer of the  19 industry groups 
in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Kuoni, Kuehne & Nagel  Kuoni Reisen Holding AG (KUNN)  climbed 5.4 percent to 269 francs
after its chief executive officer, Peter Rothwell, told NZZ am
Sonntag that the Swiss travel company is not interesting in
acquiring Thomas Cook Group Plc.  Kuehne & Nagel International AG, the world’s largest sea-
freight forwarder, climbed 0.8 percent to 115.60 francs.  Trading on the shares of Petroplus, Europe’s largest
independent refiner, was suspended after noon at the company’s
request, according to the Swiss Exchange in Zurich. Gergely Varkonyi, an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG, cut the stock to
“hold” from “buy.”  Sonova Holding AG (SOON)  fell 1.5 percent to 96.15 francs as
Romain Zana, an analyst at Exane BNP Paribas downgraded the
hearing-aid maker to “underperform” from “neutral.” Zana
also recommended investors switch from Sonova to William Demant
Holding A/S, citing “more favorable” news flow.  Novartis AG (NOVN)  retreated 0.9 percent to 51.60 francs.  Nestle
SA (NESN) , the maker of KitKat chocolate bars and Nescafe Gold Blend
instant coffee, lost 0.6 percent to 53.25 francs. The two
companies make up almost 42 percent of the SMI.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  