-- Suntech Bond Is a ‘Buy’ as China Rescues Solar Power, Axiom Says
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-01-23T16:16:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/suntech-bond-is-a-buy-as-china-rescues-solar-power-axiom-says.html
Suntech Power Holdings Co.’s 2013
convertible bond, trading at about 61 cents on the dollar, was
recommended by Axiom Capital Management Inc. on the assumption
 China  won’t let the biggest producer of solar panels default.  Suntech, which probably lost about $403 million last year
according to  analyst estimates , burned through $488 million of
cash and cash equivalents in 12 months to leave it with $458.4
million at the end of the third quarter. The Jiangsu-based
company, which cut panel prices to shift its inventory, has to
repay the $575 million bond in March 2013.  “The Chinese government is willing effectively to bail
these companies out,”  Gordon Johnson , an analyst at Axiom in
New York, said today in a telephone interview. “I don’t think
any of those guys will be allowed to default.”  Chinese solar-panel producers expanded output last year,
driving prices down by 41 percent and forcing U.S. and European
competitors such as Solyndra LLC and Solon SE into bankruptcy.
As  Germany , the biggest market for the equipment, curtails
subsidies for photovoltaic power, the oversupply is starting to
strain Chinese companies as well.  LDK Solar Co. (LDK) , the No. 2 panel maker, probably lost about
$126 million last year, after a profit of $291 million in 2010,
according to a Bloomberg survey of 13 analysts.  Canadian Solar
Inc. (CSIQ)  and  Trina Solar  Ltd., China’s third- and fourth-biggest
panel producers, may also post a loss, analyst estimates show.  LDK Bonds  LDK last month sold 500 million yuan ($79 million) of
three-year domestic bonds to yield about 6.8 percent, when its
international bonds of the same maturity yielded 49.5 percent.  “The fact that they were able to issue that debt in China
has the government painted all over it,” Johnson said.
“Suntech, if they deem to, will be able to draw down on a loan
from the  China Development Bank  or issue debt in China at a very
low rate.”  The remarks follow comments by German Environment Minister
Norbert Roettgen last week, who said China’s support for the
solar industry may be aimed at creating a monopoly, even as
Chinese competitors have contested the allegations.  “We have to make it clear that the strength of China-
originated solar companies is not about subsidies or cheap loans
from the government,” Jifan Gao, chief executive officer of
Trina Solar, said last year. “We don’t have any advantages in
this area.”  Jinko, JA Solar  The yield on LDK’s 2014 bonds has slipped to 42 percent,
while the 2016 convertible bonds issued by JinkoSolar Holding
Co., which also plans to sell debt in China this year, are
yielding about 25 percent. JA Solar Holdings Co., the biggest
solar-cell maker, sees its 2013 convertible yielding 21 percent.  Each $1,000 of the Suntech convertibles can be exchanged
for 24.3 of its American depositary shares, giving them an
initial conversion price of $41.13, according to a June 2008
prospectus. The stock has lost about 92 percent since then to
close at $3.24 in  New York  on Jan. 20.  The price of the convertibles fell to as little as 35 cents
on the dollar in September and traded at 61 cents yesterday,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.ne . 