-- Super-Rich Play Snow Polo as Igloo Agitators Heckle Davos Elite
-- B y   L e i g h   B a l d w i n
-- 2012-01-23T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/super-rich-play-snow-polo-as-igloo-agitators-heckle-davos-elite.html
Europe’s rich and famous faced tough
decisions as they assembled at a chic Swiss ski resort this
weekend: whether to drink Taittinger or whisky-infused hot
chocolate, and which piglet to back in the afternoon race.  This wasn’t Davos, where the  World Economic Forum  will urge
presidents and bankers to “rethink capitalism” this week.
Neighboring Klosters, a resort favored by the British royal
family, held its eighth annual  snow polo  tournament.  While young Swiss socialists protest against the power of
political elites in igloos outside Davos, Duran Duran sang “A
View to a Kill” to several thousand polo enthusiasts reveling
in a bar and nightclub made out of shipping containers and snow.
The four-day event, sponsored by menswear company Hackett Ltd.
and Swiss watchmaker  Parmigiani Fleurier SA , is a chance to
forget the global turmoil, according to founder Daniel Waechter,
who runs a family business selling luxury lavatories.  “Despite the financial crisis, we’ve never had so many
team requests,” he said. “Last year we had a lot of trouble
getting British teams over. Now, either they’ve recovered or
they’re saying, enough of this misery, we want to have fun.”  Eight teams of three horses and riders apiece, instead of
the usual four, battled it out in a slimmed-down version of
summer polo, which was first played in  Switzerland  by British
cavalry officers in St. Moritz in 1899. The horses wear flat
shoes with studs to grip the snow and riders, who can use six
ponies during four 6 1/2 minute chukkas, wield mallets to hit a
ball between goalposts shaped like giant champagne bottles.  Call for Revolution  As Klosters’s VIP guests ate roast saddle of veal with
morel mushroom mousse, khaki-clad soldiers rolled out barbed
wire in Davos. For David Roth, president of Switzerland’s Young
Socialists, there will be fewer comforts this week as he builds
an igloo that will serve as a base to protest against the forum.  “In the Arab revolution, it was a revolution for democracy
and I think we need also a revolution for democracy,” said
Roth. “The politicians are not independent from the money and
that is a problem.”  After German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  opens this week’s
Davos forum, which will be attended by close to 40 national
leaders, the first debate will ask “Is 20th-century capitalism
failing 21st-century society?”  ‘Morality Gap’  “We certainly have in the world today a morality gap,”
 Klaus Schwab , founder of the forum, told reporters in Geneva on
Jan. 18. “We have undermined social coherence and we are in
danger of completely losing the confidence of future
generations.”  The gap between rich and poor is widening across most
developed economies as executives, bankers and skilled workers
reap more rewards, the  Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development  said last month.  The average income of the richest tenth of the population
is now about nine times that of the poorest tenth, the Paris-
based OECD said. The gap has increased about 10 percent since
the mid-1980s with  Mexico , the U.S.,  Israel  and the U.K. among
the countries with the biggest divide between rich and poor.  “I’m going to Davos to talk with business and world
leaders about jobs, inequality and the excesses of bankers’
bonuses,” said Philip Jennings, general secretary of the Nyon,
Switzerland-based UNI Global Union, which coordinates more than
20 million workers in 150 countries. “I certainly won’t be
going there to play polo.”  Global Burnout  Still, while Schwab warns of “global burnout,” the luxury
market is close to a record. The  Bloomberg European Luxury Goods
Index (BNLXGDEU) , which includes LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA and
Cie. Financiere Richemont SA, climbed 163 percent since Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. filed for bankruptcy in September 2008,
while the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index dropped 5 percent.  The resort’s association with the royal family makes
Klosters the ideal place for London-based Hackett to promote its
clothing that is a “romantic vision of Englishness,” said
 Jeremy Hackett , 58, the firm’s co-founder, who arrived in an
Aston Martin Rapide.  “I feel like  James Bond  arriving in Zurich into a Cold War
sort of atmosphere,” said Hackett, adding that polo helps give
his company “authenticity.” “It’s a way of adding credibility
to the brand.”  Parmigiani, which gives watches to the players on the
winning team, was attracted by Klosters being the only snow polo
tournament played at night, according to Catia Hoffmann,
communications director at the Fleurier-based company.  ‘Very Exclusive’  “We like to do events that are a little different, not the
standard things like golf or Formula One,” she said. “It’s a
special atmosphere, very exclusive, but also very welcoming.”  Swiss luxury living costs, including champagne, private
jets, a Verbier ski pass and annual polo membership at Club de
Veytay outside Geneva, rose 1.2 percent in the year through
August, even as the franc strengthened against the dollar,
according to London-based  Stonehage Group , which manages the
affairs of more than 1,000 wealthy families.  At Klosters, the polo matches attract a crowd that
outnumbers the 2,600 delegates expected at the forum.  “Some people have just floated to the top and stayed above
the crisis, particularly in the luxury sector,”  Paul Smith , who
worked for Chelsea Football Club before starting his own company
to advise soccer clubs on branding, said over a glass of
champagne as waitresses served smoked salmon and shrimp canapes
in the VIP enclosure in Klosters. “They’re not going to think
twice about buying a luxury watch or ordering a limousine.”  Luxury Lavatories  Tournament founder Waechter got involved in polo when he
took a job as head of the Klosters tourism board after his
travel company was hurt by the Sept. 11 attacks in 2001. Two
years ago he inherited the family business and is using snow
polo to market  The Golden Throne , his range of luxury portable
lavatories named after European monarchs -- Elisabeth, George
and Sissi.  Polo clubs are “popping up like mushrooms” and they’re
not only for the super-rich, Waechter said in a Dec. 23
interview in Zurich, adding that he plays with an architect, an
insurer and a restaurateur.  “I got into polo because I loved golf and always wanted to
ride a horse,” said Stefan Locher, a doctor by training who
runs his own media company and is playing at Klosters. He keeps
his string of four ponies over the border in  Germany , where
costs are lower. “It’s like golf on horseback.”  In Klosters, where Parmigiani’s riders edged Team  BMW (BMW)  9-8
in the polo final, the sponsored racing jackets are taken off
the piglets after bad weather forces the cancellation of the 3
p.m. event. As  Duran Duran  takes the stage to sing “Ordinary
World,” up the valley in Davos, Roth suspects the polo crowd is
out of touch with reality.  “These people are not really connected,” said Roth, as a
fellow protester adds the final brick to an igloo and the
temperature drops to minus 6 degrees Celsius (21 degrees
Fahrenheit). “They don’t relate to the problems of the world.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leigh Baldwin in Zurich at 
 lbaldwin3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  