-- Syria Rejects Arab League Proposal for Talks on National Unity Government
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-01-23T13:39:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/syria-rejects-arab-league-proposal-for-talks-on-national-unity-government.html
The Syrian government rejected an
 Arab League  proposal that calls on President Bashar al-Assad to
delegate power to a deputy and set up a unity government as a
prelude to parliamentary and presidential elections.  The initiative, approved by Arab League foreign ministers
meeting in Cairo yesterday, is a violation of the country’s
sovereignty, the state-run Syrian Arab News Agency said, citing
an unidentified government official.  “We ask the Syrian regime to leave and hand over power,”
Qatari Foreign Minister Sheikh Hamad Bin Jasim Bin Jaber al
Thani said yesterday. “We are with the Syrian people, with
their will and with their aspirations.”  The Arab League sent observers to Syria on Dec. 26 to
ensure Assad follows through on his pledge to withdraw security
forces from cities, release political prisoners and allow anti-
government demonstrations. The plan approved yesterday calls for
the government and opposition to start a dialogue under the
umbrella of the Arab League within two weeks and the formation
of a national unity government within two months.  “This confirms that all Arab countries today consider the
regime of Bashar al-Assad to be finished and that it must be
replaced,” said Burhan Ghalioun, leader of the opposition
Syrian National Council.  ‘Long End Game’  Salman Shaikh, director of the Brookings Doha Center, said
the proposals were the “start of something quite significant.”  “It may be a very long end game but I do believe that they
are now working for a post-Assad  Syria  and a transition for that
to start,” Shaikh said in a telephone interview from Doha.  Syria agreed on Dec. 19 to allow Arab League monitors into
the country in exchange for the league dropping plans to go to
the  United Nations Security Council .  Arab League Secretary General Nabil El-Arabi has sent a
request to the Syrian government to extend the group’s
monitoring mission from Jan. 24 to Feb. 24, the league’s
spokesman, Wageeh Maleeha, told reporters today in Cairo.  The government’s killing of protesters has continued during
the deployment, according to human rights activists, U.S. and UN
officials. A group of 145 Arab organizations, including members
of the Syrian opposition, called on the organization on Jan. 18
to withdraw its observers.  Listening Devices  Anwar Malek, a former monitor who quit and backed the call
for withdrawal, told Al Arabiya television that the observers
found listening devices under their pillows and that he was
threatened with online publication of pictures of him taken
while in the shower.  Mohammed al-Dabi, head of the Arab League’s monitoring
mission in Syria, told a news conference in Cairo today that the
mission’s mandate is limited and isn’t aimed at stopping the
killing.  He spoke a day after Saudi Foreign Minister Prince Saud al-
Faisal told the foreign ministers’ meeting that his country was
pulling out its monitors because Syria “has fallen short of
complying with any of the elements of the Arab plan,” the
state-run Saudi Press Agency reported. Prince Saud urged the
international community, including Russia and  China , to exert
“all possible pressure to convince the Syrian government” to
implement the plan.  EU Sanctions  The European Union today added 22 people and eight
organizations to its Syria sanctions list.  “The EU will continue its policy of imposing additional
measures against the regime, not to the civilian population, as
long as repression continues,” it said in a statement.  Assad has repeatedly blamed the unrest on a “foreign
conspiracy,” “terrorists” and religious extremists.  The revolt against Assad started in March amid popular
movements that toppled leaders in Tunisia, Egypt and  Libya ,
while forcing Yemen’s President Ali Abdullah Saleh to agree to
cede power. The UN estimates that more than 5,000 Syrians have
died during the violence, in the greatest challenge to Assad’s
rule since he took over from his father in 2000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Manama at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  