-- S&P 500 Caps Longest Advance Since December Amid Energy Rally
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-01-23T22:20:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/u-s-stock-index-futures-decline-as-investors-watch-greek-talks.html
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose
for a fifth day, capping its longest rally since December, as
energy and bank shares advanced and investors weighed
developments in Europe’s efforts to tame its debt crisis.  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  surged 6.3 percent, pacing gains in
energy companies, as the second-largest U.S. natural-gas
producer said it will cut production and reduce spending.  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC)  added 2.6 percent as Chief Executive Officer
 Brian T. Moynihan  said the lender may reduce annual costs by as
much as an additional $3 billion.  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  slumped
1.9 percent after Stifel Nicolaus & Co.  cut  its recommendation
for the largest consumer-products company.  The S&P 500 added 0.1 percent to 1,316 at 4 p.m. New York
time, gaining 2.1 percent in five days. The  Dow Jones Industrial
Average (INDU)  declined 11.66 points, or 0.1 percent, to 12,708.82,
after earlier rising above the highest closing  level  since May.  “The bulls were able to flex their muscles a bit and the
bears can’t really point to a whole lot of tangible news that’s
really going to change matters much,”  Hayes Miller , who helps
oversee about $43 billion as the Boston-based head of asset
allocation in  North America  at Baring Asset Management Inc.,
said in a telephone interview. “There’s a general relief about
U.S. growth and Europe’s ability to solve its debt crisis. I
don’t really buy into the overbought argument that much.”  The  S&P 500  rose all four days U.S. exchanges were open
last week as data bolstered confidence in the economy and
companies from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to Union Pacific Corp.
 topped  analysts’ income projections. Of the 52 companies in the
S&P 500 that reported results since Jan. 9, 34 posted per-share
earnings that beat projections, Bloomberg data show.  Record High  Equities turned lower early today after the S&P 500 reached
1,322.28, a level close to a downward trendline connecting the
index’s all-time high in 2007 with its peak last year in April
and its May and July highs, according to Ari Wald, a New York-
based technical strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co.  The index’s 14-day  relative strength index , which measures
the degree that gains and losses outpace each other, has stayed
above 65 since Jan. 17, matching the longest streak since
February, according to Bloomberg data. Some technical analysts
consider RSI readings above 70 a sign that stocks have risen too
far, too fast.  Germany  and  France  said talks between  Greece  and
bondholders on negotiations for a debt swap were making
progress, while an official in Berlin said Germany may be open
to combining  Europe ’s two bailout mechanisms and boosting their
funding limit. Finance ministers meeting in Brussels today
agreed on all aspects of the European Stability Mechanism in a
deal to be signed on Jan. 30, Martti Salmi, an aide at Finland’s
 Finance Ministry  in Helsinki, said by telephone.  Energy Shares  A gauge of energy shares had the  biggest gain  in the S&P
500 among 10 groups, rising 0.7 percent. Chesapeake plans to cut
output, idle drilling rigs and reduce spending in gas fields by
70 percent after prices for the fuel hit a 10-year low. Natural
gas soared today, while Chesapeake surged 6.3 percent to $22.28.  Cabot Oil & Gas Corp.  increased 6.5 percent to $65.08.
 Range Resources Corp. (RRC)  added 9.2 percent to $59.  Southwestern
Energy Co. (SWN)  jumped 10 percent to $32.46. The oil and gas company
was raised to “outperform” from “market perform” at BMO
Capital Markets.  Financial stocks in the S&P 500  swung  between gains and
losses today before closing 0.3 percent higher.  Bank of America jumped 2.6 percent, the biggest gain in the
Dow, to $7.25. The lender, which already targeted $5 billion in
expense cuts from retail and back-office operations, may reach
total savings of $6 billion to $8 billion a year, Moynihan said
during a Jan. 19 employee meeting.  P&G Slumps  Procter & Gamble  fell 1.9 percent, the second-most in the
Dow, to $65. The company was lowered to “hold” from “buy” at
Stifel Nicolaus.  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  sank 6.3 percent to $93.96. The owner of the
streaming and DVD-by-mail service is likely to provide a first-
quarter forecast that’s “well below” analysts’ estimates,
according to Wedbush Securities.  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  tumbled 8.5 percent to $15.56. The
BlackBerry maker shook up its top management, replacing co-Chief
Executive Officers Jim Balsillie and Mike Lazaridis, who guided
the company for two decades and struggled to compete against
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  Thorsten Heins, a chief operating officer who joined
RIM four years ago from Siemens AG, will replace the pair in the
CEO post effective immediately.  Fund Withdrawals  Trading (MVOLUSE)  in U.S. stocks fell to the lowest level since at
least 2008 amid mutual fund withdrawals and Wall Street job
cuts.  An average of  6.69 billion  shares changed hands on U.S.
exchanges in the 50 days ended Jan. 18, the fewest on record in
Bloomberg data starting three years ago that excludes over-the-
counter venues. On the  New York  Stock Exchange, volume has
tumbled to the lowest level since 1999, the data show.  The slowdown in trading shows that investors remain
skittish after five years of withdrawals from mutual funds that
buy U.S. equities and one of the most volatile years on record
for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. While the benchmark index
is having its best  January rally  since 1997, securities firms
around the world cut more than 200,000 jobs last year.  “Investor confidence is shaky at the very least,” Mark Turner, head of U.S. sales trading at Instinet Inc. in New York,
said in a telephone interview on Jan. 20. His firm handles about
4 percent of the total daily U.S. equity volume. “We need to
see the  U.S. economy  improve. We need to see some sort of a plan
in place to deal with Europe’s debt crisis before the market
gains some confidence. At that point, we’ll start to see an
increase in volume.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  