-- U.S. Says Reported Russian Jet Sale to Syria Causes Concern
-- B y   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-01-23T20:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/u-s-says-reported-russian-jet-sale-to-syria-causes-concern-1-.html
Russia signed an agreement to
deliver 36 Yak-130 jet trainer aircraft to  Syria  in a deal
valued at $550 million,  Kommersant  reported, citing an
unidentified person close to weapons exporter Rosoboronexport.  Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said Jan. 18 that
trade between Russia and Syria is limited to goods that aren’t
banned under international law, the Moscow-based newspaper said.  “If it’s accurate, it would be quite concerning,” State
Department spokesman  Victoria Nuland  said in  Washington  today
when asked about the reported agreement. The State Department’s
assistant secretary for Near Eastern Affairs,  Jeffrey Feltman ,
is in Moscow today for meetings that will focus first and
foremost on Syria, Nuland said. Feltman will convey “our
interest in being able to move forward in the UN Security
Council,” she said.  The jet trainer sale follows reports that a ship from
Moscow delivered ammunition to Syria earlier this month. “Any
country that is still trading in weapons and armaments with
Syria really ought to think twice because they’re on the wrong
side of history,” Nuland said.  “We still have violence perpetrated by the regime,”
Nuland said, commenting on an Arab League report on Syria
yesterday that called the situation there a state of severe
oppression.  U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said it was time for
the UN Security Council to move forward with sanctions against
Syria. Speaking in Brussels today, Hague called such action
“long overdue.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  