-- UBS Squatters May Be Evicted From Building After Occupy London Drops Case
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2012-01-24T11:08:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/ubs-building-may-be-vacated-after-occupy-london-drops-appeal.html
Occupy London protesters who took
over a vacant  UBS AG (UBSN)  building in the city’s financial district
in November dropped a challenge to their eviction at a U.K.
appeals court.  The case, scheduled to be heard this week, was settled Jan.
20, said Rachael Collins, a spokeswoman at the High Court in
London. The anti-capitalist protesters, inspired by a similar
campaign in the U.S. targeting Wall Street banks, will decide
whether to leave the building voluntarily or stage a peaceful
protest when they are scheduled to be evicted tomorrow, said
Peter Phoenix, a spokesman for the squatters.  “Every day we’ve been here has been a victory for us,” he
said on the ground floor of the site. “You can’t evict an idea
and we’ll keep occupying buildings until we’re heard.”  About 28 protesters entered the office block on Nov. 18 and
around 60 people spend the night there, Phoenix has said. The
building, owned by UBS subsidiary Sun Street Properties,
comprises four multistory buildings across from the bank’s
 London  headquarters. The squatters have hung banners from the
windows of the building, reading “UBS You Owe Us,” and “You
Can’t Evict An Idea.”  Occupy protesters also lost a court case last week brought
by the City of London Corporation, over their protest outside of
 St. Paul’s Cathedral . A London judge said the municipality has
the right to remove the tents from areas near the church. More
than 200 tents have clustered around the building since the
middle of October, inspired by the Occupy Wall Street protest in
 New York  that targeted banks.  Courthouse, Finsbury Square  Members of the London group also entered a vacant court on
Old Street in the British capital last month, and are camping at
Finsbury Square, one block from the UBS building. The squatters
in the Old Street court said they agreed to leave yesterday
after they lost a court hearing.  UBS spokeswoman Hana Dunn declined to comment.  The case is Sun Street Properties Ltd. v. Persons Unknown,
case No. 11-4093,  High Court  of Justice,  Chancery Division 
(London).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  