-- UBS, Insider Trading, Deutsche Boerse-NYSE, EU Ship Safety: Compliance
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-01-23T13:19:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/ubs-insider-trading-deutsche-boerse-nyse-boeing-compliance.html
Kenneth Heller, a disbarred  New York 
maritime lawyer, was sentenced to 45 days in jail for using an
offshore  UBS AG (UBSN)  account to hide income from U.S. tax
authorities.  Heller, 82, who pleaded guilty in June to three counts of
 tax evasion  for the years 2006, 2007 and 2008, was sentenced
Jan. 20 by U.S. District Judge Kevin Castel in Manhattan. The
parties agreed that the amount of taxes Heller avoided was
between $400,000 and $1 million.  Heller, who faced as long as 15 years in prison, has
cancer, memory loss and other physical and mental problems,
according to a defense filing in which his lawyers asked that he
not be imprisoned.  “He is in dire physical condition, has a very short life
expectancy and is in constant pain,” Heller’s lawyer, Robert
Fink, told Castel Friday. Heller has already paid a $9.8 million
penalty to the  Internal Revenue Service .  He was one of seven ex-clients of Zurich-based UBS arrested
on the same day in 2010 and charged with hiding more than $100
million from the IRS. UBS admitted in February 2009 that it
helped U.S. clients evade taxes. The bank avoided prosecution by
paying a $780 million fine and turning over the names of U.S.
account holders to investigators.  Fink said his client cooperated with prosecutors, who this
month charged three Wegelin & Co. bankers with conspiring to
help U.S. clients hide more than $1.2 billion from tax
authorities. He provided information supporting the charges,
Assistant U.S. Attorney David Massey said in a sentencing
memorandum filed with the court.  Castel rejected Heller’s plea for a non-jail sentence,
saying it was necessary to deter others from evading taxes.
Castel also ordered Heller to serve two years of supervised
release and pay a fine of $180,000. Heller must surrender to
begin his sentence on April 2, the judge said.  The case is U.S. v. Heller, 10-mg-742, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  David Slaine, Who Led to Rajaratnam, Gets 3 Years’ Probation  David Slaine, a former Galleon Group LLC employee who
helped lead U.S. authorities to investigate the hedge fund
firm’s co-founder,  Raj Rajaratnam ,  was sentenced to three years
of probation for  securities fraud .  Slaine, who wore a wire to record dozens of conversations
with Zvi Goffer, another former Galleon employee, and others,
provided help that prosecutors from the office of Manhattan U.S.
Attorney Preet Bharara called “nothing short of extraordinary”
in their  insider-trading  investigation. Slaine was also ordered
by U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan to perform 300 hours of
community service and pay a $500,000 fine at his sentencing
Friday in federal court in Manhattan.  Slaine’s evidence helped to spur what became the biggest
probe of insider trading at hedge funds, prosecutors said in a
letter to Sullivan this month.  Slaine, who pleaded guilty to conspiracy and securities
fraud in December 2009, testified at the trial of Goffer, his
brother Emanuel Goffer and Michael Kimelman that he cooperated
with federal agents for about 2 1/2 years to try to avoid
prison. He faced as much as 25 years in prison.  The case is U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-00056, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Compliance Action  Deutsche Boerse Pledges German Investment to Placate Regulator  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  offered concessions to German regulators
as the operator of the Frankfurt stock exchange sought to stem
mounting concern about its merger with  NYSE Euronext. (NYX)   The exchange operator said it will invest 300 million euros
($388 million) over three years, promised not to fire any local
employees for a minimum of two years and committed to making
Germany “the operations hub” for  Europe , according to a
statement today. Deutsche Boerse has already pledged to keep its
derivatives, market data, custody and settlement businesses in
Germany.  Deutsche Boerse, which announced its takeover of New York-
based NYSE almost a year ago, is struggling to save the deal in
the face of opposition from the European Commission and the
German State of Hesse, the company’s local regulator. Hesse must
approve the deal if the European Union’s executive arm gives it
the go ahead. Hesse has yet to be convinced the merger would be
advantageous, Handelsblatt reported Friday, citing the state’s
Economy Minister Dieter Posch.  Chief Executive Officers Duncan Niederauer for NYSE and
Reto Francioni for Deutsche Boerse, are trying to appeal to
politicians and other European regulators as they seek to
salvage their plan to create the world’s largest exchange
company. Two people familiar with the talks told Bloomberg last
month that negotiators for the Commission planned to block the
deal because the concessions offered by the exchanges didn’t go
far enough.  NYSE and Deutsche Boerse’s deal is the last remaining after
a year in which populist outcry, antitrust concern and some of
the  most volatile markets  on record have prevented the
completion of more than $37 billion in announced transactions,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg on deals valued at $1
billion or more.  The European Commission will decide on the deal on Feb. 1.  Compliance Policy  EU Urges Accelerated Ship-Safety Review After Concordia Accident  European Union Transport Commissioner Siim Kallas called
for an accelerated review of EU passenger-ship safety rules
after the Costa Concordia accident off the coast of Italy left
at least 11 people dead.  “We will ensure that any lessons from the Costa Concordia
are fully taken into account in the already ongoing review of EU
passenger-ship safety law,” Kallas said Friday in a statement
in Brussels. “And we want to accelerate this work wherever
possible.”  Carnival Corp. (CCL) , owner of the Costa Concordia cruise ship,
on Friday announced a review of safety procedures in the
aftermath of the Jan. 13 accident. Carnival’s Costa Crociere SpA
unit on Jan. 19 suspended the ship’s captain, Francesco
Schettino, who was placed under house arrest on Jan. 17 for
allegedly causing the shipwreck.  “The safety record of passenger ships in EU waters has
been strong over the last 10 years, but there is no room for
complacency when it comes to safety,” Kallas said. “The
challenge is to ensure that safety rules for passenger ships
fully keep pace with the latest designs and technologies in a
fast-changing sector.”  EU May Allow Asset-Backed Securities in Bank Liquidity Measures  Banks (SX7P)  may be allowed to include asset-backed securities in
the liquid assets that regulators demand to defend against a
credit squeeze, according to a version of the draft law
published by the European Union.  “Asset-backed instruments of high liquid and credit
quality” as deemed by the European Banking Authority may count
as a buffer by regulators, the  document  prepared by Denmark,
which holds the rotating presidency of the EU, shows.
Securitizations are excluded as liquid assets under rules known
as Basel III, making the debt less attractive for  banks. (SX7P)   The so-called liquidity coverage ratio, a buffer of easy-
to-sell assets to survive a 30-day credit squeeze, is one of
several measures from the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision
to prevent financial crises. The collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. and Belgium’s Dexia SA were blamed in part on the
lenders running out of short-term funding.  “It’s very good news for European ABS where demand has
been dominated by a few clients mostly in the U.S.,” said
Stefano Loreti, a senior portfolio manager at Cairn Capital that
manages and advises on over $20 billion of assets, including
European ABS. “This development could help bring back European
banks to the investor base.”  Issuance of asset-backed securities have tumbled in Europe
after bonds linked to U.S. subprime debt slumped, prompting
investors to shun the hard-to-value securities. Sales of the
debt fell to 74 billion euros ($96 billion) last year from as
much as 510 billion euros in 2006, according to  JPMorgan Chase &
Co (JPM)  data.  The proposals follow the  European Central Bank ’s decision
in December to lower the minimum credit rating on collateral it
accepts for loans.  The Jan. 9 document has to be approved by national
governments in the 27-nation EU and the European Parliament
before they can become law.  EU Privacy Rules to Include Leak Disclosure Within 24 Hours  A European Union proposal to simplify and toughen the
region’s data-protection rules will require companies to
disclose data breaches within 24 hours of their occurrences,
Justice Commissioner Viviane Reding said.  The EU will this week outline an overhaul of its 17-year-
old data-protection policies addressing online advertising and
social-networking sites. The bill, which includes stricter
sanctions and will equip national data-protection authorities
with powers to levy administrative sanctions and fines, will
“become a trademark people recognize and trust worldwide,”
Reding said at a conference in Munich yesterday.  Sony Corp. (6758)  was criticized last year by U.S. lawmakers for
taking six days to warn customers about a cyber attack that
exposed more than 100 million customer accounts, the second-
largest online data breach in U.S. history. Industry groups with
members including Microsoft Corp. and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  have warned
the EU against setting overly strict data-privacy rules, saying
that may stifle innovation.  The legislation will require companies to obtain “specific
and explicit” consent from Internet users to store information,
and delete data unless there is a “legitimate and legally
justified interest” to keep them on their servers, Reding said
at the annual Digital Life Design conference.  “Companies that suffer a data leak must inform the data
protection authorities and the individuals concerned, and they
must do so without undue delay,” Reding said. She cited a
survey showing 72 percent of Europeans are concerned about how
companies use their data.  The draft rules aim to establish common legislation for the
27-member European Union, as well as national points of contact
that can make decisions that will be valid for the region.
Uniform legislation will save businesses 2.3 billion euros ($3
billion) a year by, for example, reducing paperwork, Reding
said.  Courts  Boeing to Pay U.S. $4.4 Million to End Chinook Billing Case  Boeing Co. (BA) , the second-largest defense contractor, agreed
to pay the U.S. $4.4 million to resolve allegations that it
overbilled the government for work on Chinook military
helicopters.  The settlement requires Boeing to retrain its employees and
make improvements to software it uses to track its billing,
Philadelphia U.S. Attorney Zane Memeger said Jan. 20 in a
statement. A whistle-blower lawsuit alerted the government to
the issue, according to the statement.  The U.S. Justice Department awarded Boeing a contract in
2003 to produce and modify new Chinook helicopters as part of
the Army’s effort to modernize its fleet. More than 100 Chinooks
were ordered.  A government probe revealed that Boeing managers instructed
mechanics to perform non-billable work while separately billing
the U.S. for their time resulting in the government being
charged for work for which it had already paid, according to the
statement.  Damien Mills, a spokesman at Boeing’s Chinook plant in
Ridley Park, Pennsylvania, said the company cooperated fully
with the government’s investigation.  “As the investigation revealed, this is a matter of
inadequate charging discipline in the past, not of any
deliberate wrongdoing,” Mills said in an e-mailed statement.  The case is U.S. v. The Boeing Co., 10-cv-00634, U.S.
District Court Eastern District of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia).  Stanford Investors Endure ‘Living Hell’ on Eve of Trial  R. Allen Stanford’s investors, after waiting three years to
see the Texas financier go to trial on charges of leading a $7
billion fraud, must hold on even longer before learning when
they will get some of their money back.  Stanford’s customers have received nothing since the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission closed his businesses in
February 2009.  Stanford, accused of misleading people who bought
certificates of deposit from his Antigua-based bank, spent their
money on bad investments, sports sponsorships and a lavish
lifestyle that included yachts, a fleet of jets, mansions and a
private Caribbean island, U.S. prosecutors said. Jury selection
in his criminal trial is scheduled to start today in federal
court in Houston. Stanford, who denies any wrongdoing, faces as
long as 20 years in prison if convicted.  “It’s not fair that we have to be put through this living
hell,” said Blaine Smith of Louisiana, who claims to have lost
$1 million in life savings invested with Stanford.  A court-appointed receiver for Stanford Group Co. has spent
at least $103 million on litigation, wind-down costs and other
expenses, while collecting less than $212 million in cash and
material assets since the SEC sued Stanford in February 2009.  The expenditures include professional fees and expenses of
$52.1 million through October, with $1.3 million of this going
to receiver Ralph Janvey’s firm, Dallas-based Krage & Janvey
LLP, according to a Bloomberg review of court records. That sum
covers the $21.3 million Janvey asked court permission to pay
his primary outside law firm, Houston-based Baker Botts LLP, for
work done from Feb. 17, 2009, to Sept. 30, 2011.  The total also includes $21 million Janvey requested in
fees and expenses for FTI Consulting Inc., which provided
forensic accounting, asset tracing, electronic evidence-
processing and support services during the same period,
according to Bloomberg’s review.  Unlike Stanford, repayment processes have moved forward for
claimants in the Bernard L. Madoff fraud case and the bankruptcy
of  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) , the parent of commodities broker MF
Global Inc.  The SEC case is Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Stanford International Bank Ltd., 09-cv-00298, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Texas (Dallas). The criminal case is
U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-00342, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of Texas (Houston). The receivership jurisdiction case
is In re Stanford International Bank Ltd., 3:09-cv-00721, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Texas (Dallas).  For more, click here.  U.K. Judge Tells Merrill, UBS to Seek Lombardy Swaps Settlement  Bank of America Corp .’s Merrill Lynch unit and UBS AG must
try to reach an out-of-court resolution to their dispute with
the Italian Region of Lombardy over interest-rate transactions,
a London judge ruled.  Judge Nigel Teare granted an order for alternative dispute
resolution at a hearing Jan. 20.  Merrill and UBS sued Lombardy in the U.K. in 2010 to uphold
derivatives contracts sold to the region. Lombardy, the northern
Italian region where Milan is located, accused the banks of
fraud and hidden fees, according to court papers.  Italian local governments including Tuscany, Lazio,
Piedmont and Florence have challenged investment banks in the
courts over derivatives contracts which turned out to cost more
than expected.  UBS lawyer Sonia Tolaney said at Friday’s hearing the
Zurich-based bank had restarted informal negotiations with
Lombardy in December. Richard Handyside, an attorney for New
York-based Merrill, said the bank wasn’t currently in talks with
the region.  The Merrill case is Merrill Lynch International Bank Ltd.
v. The Region of Lombardy, 10-828, High Court of Justice,
Queen’s Bench Division, Commercial Court.  CFTC Position Limits Rule Lawsuit Dismissed by Appeals Court  Two Wall Street groups’ challenge to a U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission rule on position limits must first be
considered in a trial court, a federal appeals court ruled.  In dismissing the case, a three-judge panel of the U.S.
Court of Appeals in Washington on Jan. 20 said it doesn’t have
jurisdiction to consider the case because the Commodity Exchange
Act and last year’s Dodd-Frank law “are silent” on whether the
rule can be directly challenged to the appeals court.  The  International Swaps and Derivatives Association Inc. 
and  Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association  filed
an emergency request Jan. 9 urging the appeals court to put the
rule on hold while the court considers their legal challenge.
The groups asked the court to issue a ruling by Jan. 27.  By dismissing the case, the judges also rejected that
request.  The groups, in one of the financial industry’s highest-
profile efforts to weaken last year’s Dodd-Frank law, filed
lawsuits challenging the rule in two federal courts in
Washington last month. The district court lawsuit had been put
on hold while the appeals court considered the case.  They argue that the CFTC used a flawed analysis of Dodd-
Frank when it decided to impose the restrictions. The
associations also said the CFTC failed to properly weigh the
rule’s costs and benefits.  Steven Adamske , a CFTC spokesman, declined to comment on
the ruling.  The CFTC on Jan. 4 asked the appeals court to dismiss the
challenge claiming it doesn’t have jurisdiction to consider the
lawsuit.  Ira Hammerman, general counsel for the  Securities Industry
and Financial Markets Association , said the association “will
move forward quickly in the district court.”  Steve Kennedy, a spokesman for the  International Swaps and
Derivatives Association Inc. , didn’t immediately respond to a
phone message seeking comment after business hours on Jan. 20.  The two associations represent  JPMorgan Chase & Co. ,
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS) , among other banks
and asset managers.  The case is International Swaps and Derivatives Association
v. CFTC, 11-01491, U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of
Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  