-- Hummingbird Seeks ‘Magic Number’ Deposit for Liberia Gold Mine
-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2012-01-23T11:08:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/hummingbird-seeks-magic-number-deposit-for-liberia-gold-mine.html
Hummingbird Resources Plc (HUM) , owner of
gold exploration licenses in Liberia, aims to reach a deposit of
as much as 3 million ounces by the end of the month and begin
developing a mine.  The company, which in September raised the reserve at the
Dugbe pit of its project in eastern Liberia to 1.8 million
ounces, is targeting a maiden resource of about 1 million ounces
at the Tuzon pit within a couple of weeks, Managing Director
Daniel Betts said in an interview in  London .  Hummingbird won’t build a mine until it reaches the target,
he said. “There’s this magic number -- 3 million ounces. It’s
seen as a world class, significant deposit, and it’s much easier
to raise the funding.”  The miner needs to raise about $40 million to complete
feasibility studies, which would take about two years, Betts
said. It will then need about two years to finish construction
at a cost of $200 million to $250 million, he said. The company
aims to have annual production of 200,000 ounces of gold with a
mine life of about 15 years, Betts said.  That would be “a fantastic gold mine and be a big
operation,” he said. “That’s what I’d like to target.”  Betts, whose family business in Birmingham has been
refining gold for 250 years, used his father Stephen’s contacts
to explore in Liberia, he said. The company increased its gold
reserve to 1.8 million ounces from the 800 million ounces it
announced when it listed in London in December 2010.  The company also has an iron ore project near the mines of
 BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s largest miner, and  ArcelorMittal (MT) ,
the largest steelmaker in Liberia, Betts said.  Hummingbird plans to start digging next month at the iron
deposit with partner  Petmin Ltd. (PET) ,  South Africa ’s largest
anthracite coal miner, Betts said. The companies may consider
selling the project to BHP, ArcelorMittal, or a Chinese company
after defining resources, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  