-- Hungary Will Probably Raise Highest EU Interest Rate as IMF Talks Delayed
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-01-24T08:33:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/hungary-will-probably-raise-highest-eu-interest-rate-as-imf-talks-delayed.html
Hungary  will raise the European
Union’s highest  benchmark interest rate  to support local assets
as the country’s bailout negotiations remain frozen, a survey of
economists showed.  The  Magyar Nemzeti Bank  will today raise the benchmark two-
week deposit rate by a half-point for a third month to 7.5
percent, according to 15 of 21 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
Five predicted a quarter-point increase and one forecast no
change. The decision will be announced at 2 p.m. in Budapest.  Hungary is trying to revive bailout talks that broke down
last month over a central bank law that the  International
Monetary Fund  and the EU said threatens monetary-policy
independence. Speculation that the talks may collapse pushed the
forint to a record low against the euro earlier this month.
Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s pledge to change legislation to
satisfy the 27-member EU helped local assets pare losses.  “We expect the central bank to deliver another 50 basis-
point rate hike” because “risk premia have remained high and
markets have remained concerned about economic-policy risks,”
economists from Intesa Sanpaolo SpA’s CIB Bank unit, including
Sandor Jobbagy, said by e-mail. “Once the deal with the IMF and
the EU is on track, further tightening may not be necessary.”  Conciliatory Rhetoric  Orban’s conciliatory rhetoric sent the forint, the worst-
performing currency in the world in the past six months,
rallying 6.1 percent against the euro since falling to a record
low of 324.24 on Jan. 5.  The currency weakened 0.3 percent to 300.8 per euro by 9
a.m. in Budapest. The yield on 10-year  government bonds  fell to
9.3 percent from 10.7 percent on Jan. 5. The cost of insuring
state debt against default dropped to 592 basis points on Jan.
23 after reaching a record 735 on Jan. 5.  “The probability of a 50 basis-point hike is much lower
than before,” Peter Attard Montalto, a London-based economist
at Nomura International Plc said in a report, adding that policy
makers may decide to pause this month as they await data on the
effects of this year’s tax and duty changes. An increase to 7.5
percent is still the most likely, he said.  Hungary’s rate increases contrast with the Romanian central
bank, which has lowered borrowing costs twice in the past three
months by a cumulative half-point to 5.75 percent. Romania
agreed on a 5 billion-euro ($6.5 billion) precautionary program
for two years with the IMF last March.  Czech, Polish Rates  The Ceska Narodni Banka in  Prague  has left its two-week
repurchase rate unchanged at a record-low 0.75 percent since May
2010, a quarter-point below the  European Central Bank ’s main
refinancing rate. Poland left its benchmark rate unchanged at
4.5 percent for a sixth meeting on Jan. 11.  Hungarian forward-rate agreements, used to bet on three-
month interest costs in one month, fell to 7.9 percent from 8.4
percent on Jan. 6, the highest since July of 2009. The Budapest
Interbank Offered Rate, to which the FRAs settle, traded at 7.3
percent.  Hungary is ready to change its central bank bill and other
laws because starting talks on an IMF loan is more important for
the government than engaging in a legal battle with the European
Commission, Orban told reporters in Budapest Jan. 20.  He will meet European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso today in Brussels to outline solutions to the EU
executive’s concerns. The commission threatened on Jan. 17 to
file a lawsuit against Hungary because of the central bank law,
moves to force hundreds of judges into retirement by cutting
their pension age and a plan to dismiss the data protection
ombudsman after an overhaul of his office.  ‘Very Important’  “The meeting is very important,”  Mihaly Varga , Orban’s
chief of staff, told TV2 in an interview yesterday. “In all
three issues, the Hungarian government will make flexible
negotiating proposals.”  Hungary, which became the first EU country to receive an
IMF-led bailout in 2008, shunned fresh aid in 2010 when Orban
became prime minister. He reversed his policy last year when the
state started struggling to raise funds at debt auctions, the
forint plummeted and the country’s sovereign-credit grade was
cut to junk.  Hungary has become a test case for democratic principles
and economic-policy rules in the EU, forcing the commission to
make good on a pledge to use all its powers to enforce the
bloc’s norms. The country, which isn’t part of the 17-nation
euro area, risks compounding the two-year-old European debt-
crisis centered on the single currency.  Central Bank Signal  Hungary’s public debt rose to 83 percent of gross domestic
product at the end of the third quarter, the highest in the
region. It compares with about half that ratio for neighboring
Slovakia, which joined the euro in 2009.  The central bank last month said it may have to raise the
main  interest rate  further if risk perception deteriorates
“substantially.” Five policy makers backed an increase to 7
percent in December while two -- Ferenc Gerhardt and Gyorgy
Kocziszky -- supported a quarter-point advance to 6.75 percent,
according to the minutes of the meeting published on Jan. 11.  Gerhardt and Kocziszky were two of four outside members of
the rate-setting Monetary Council appointed last year by a
parliamentary committee dominated by lawmakers belonging to the
ruling party.  “Increasing division in the Monetary Council might prevent
a 50 basis-point hike and result in a 23 basis-point hike
instead,”  Gyula Toth , a strategist at UniCredit SpA in Vienna,
said in a report before the rate decision.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  