-- Murdoch Paper Told Police Dead Girl’s Friends Gave Phone Code
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-01-23T13:48:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/murdoch-paper-told-police-dead-girl-s-friends-gave-phone-code.html
Rupert Murdoch ’s now-defunct News of
the World newspaper told police in 2002 that it accessed a
missing girl’s voicemails, saying it got her mobile-phone number
and access code from other schoolchildren.  Surrey Police, the force southwest of  London  that
investigated the 2002 abduction and murder of 13-year-old Milly
Dowler, made the statement in a  letter to Parliament’s Culture
Committee  published today. It set out the interactions between
officers and  News of the World  journalists in the weeks
immediately after Dowler’s disappearance, a story that made
headlines in Britain’s tabloid press.  A July 4 Guardian newspaper report that News of the World
journalists deleted messages from Dowler’s voicemail during the
police probe led to a public outcry, forcing  News Corp. (NWSA)  to close
the Sunday tabloid, then Britain’s biggest-selling newspaper,
and sparking a judge-led inquiry into U.K. media ethics. The
Guardian said last month that the News of the World may not
after all have been responsible for the deletions.  Surrey Police said in their letter to lawmakers that in
April 2002, the newspaper picked up a message on Dowler’s
voicemail left in error by a recruitment company in another part
of the country. When the News of the World contacted the police
to tell them about it, the police replied that they believed it
to be the work of a hoaxer. They later established it was a
genuine message left as the result of a wrong number.  When the police asked the News of the World journalist
“why he was so convinced the message on Milly’s voicemail was
not the work of a hoaxer,” the reply was that the paper “had
got Milly’s mobile-phone number and PIN from schoolchildren.”  A week later, the newspaper still refused to accept the
police’s version of events, with a reporter recorded as saying
that the account was “inconceivable” and that journalists were
“absolutely certain” the girl had run away to the north of
 England , according to the letter. The paper had five reporters
working on the story.  According to the recruitment agency, at one stage a News of
the World reporter claimed to be working “in full cooperation
with the police.” The police denied this.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  