-- Turkish Lira Weakens a Second Day as Central Bank Eases Lending in Auction
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-01-23T08:13:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/turkish-lira-weakens-a-second-day-as-central-bank-eases-lending-in-auction.html
The lira fell for a second day and
headed for its lowest level in six days as the Turkish  central
bank  eased lending in its one-week repo auctions before the
biggest monthly debt repayment a year.  The lira weakened 0.2 percent to 1.8329 per dollar at 9:09
a.m. in Istanbul, paring this year’s gain to 3.1 percent. The
minimum funding the central bank offers via daily one-week repo
auctions will be 25 billion liras ($13.7 billion) until Feb. 2,
increasing from a minimum of 7 billion liras during the past two
weeks, the Ankara-based bank said on Jan. 21. The Treasury will
repay 17.8 billion liras of domestic debt this month, the
highest monthly repayment in a year.  “We think that US dollar/Turkish lira may reverse some of
its recent strong performance, with Central Bank easing the lira
liquidity conditions,” Erkin Isik, a fixed-income strategist at
Turk Ekonomi Bankasi AS in Istanbul, said in a client note.  The lira performed worse than all currencies worldwide last
year as the central bank cut  interest rates  to a record low of
5.75 percent and the  current-account deficit  hit 10 percent of
gross domestic product, the highest rate among 60 major
economies tracked by the  International Monetary Fund . The
central bank offered to lend 7 billion liras in one-week repo
auction at 5.75 percent today, its lowest lending rate.  The Treasury will tap markets today and tomorrow in the
second week of auctions this month to borrow 14.4 billion liras
in domestic debt, according to a borrowing program published on
Dec. 30.  Yields (BENCH)  on two-year debt were unchanged at 10.51 percent, a
Turk Ekonomi Bankasi AS index of the securities showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  