-- Music Group Urges ‘Hysterical’ Piracy Law Detractors to Be More French
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-01-23T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/music-group-urges-hysterical-sopa-detractors-to-be-more-french.html
The U.S. music industry would get a
boost from tighter controls on pirated content, just as  France 
has seen digital music sales rise after introducing its own
rules, said an industry group representing record labels.  Digital album sales grew 71 percent last year in France
compared with 19 percent in the U.S., the largest music market,
according to a study by the  International Federation of the
Phonographic Industry,  which represents  record companies  such as
 Universal Music ,  Sony Music  and EMI.  More than a fourth of users steal music online, causing
industrywide sales declines, the IFPI said. Still, U.S. Web
companies have fought against the Protect IP Act and the Stop
Online Piracy Act, the most recently proposed anti-piracy
legislation, which they say would require them to police users
and would restrict innovation. Wikipedia took its encyclopedia
offline and  Google Inc. put  a black bar across its logo in
protest last week. The reaction caused lawmakers to shelve the
bills.  “We’ve seen some pretty hysterical reaction to those
bills, but if you look in the long run, it is never easy to move
those things forward,” said Frances Moore, chief executive of
IFPI, which is affiliated with the  Recording Industry
Association of America  in the U.S. “It isn’t a question of
whether they will tackle piracy; it’s how they will tackle
piracy.”  French Boost  The French legislation, passed in 2009, has increased sales
of singles on  Apple Inc. (APPL) ’s iTunes music service by 23 percent,
the IFPI said. The French law, which gives illegal downloaders
three warnings before their case is sent to a criminal court,
was opposed by  Internet service providers .  Digital music revenue grew 8 percent worldwide last year to
$5.2 billion and helped slow declines in total music sales to 3
percent from 8 percent in 2010, the IFPI said. Digital music
sales in the U.S. have become the primary source of revenue for
record companies.  “Our digital business is progressing in spite of the
environment in which it operates, not because of it,” Moore
said. “We need legislation from governments with coordinated
measures that deal with piracy effectively and in all its forms.
We also need more cooperation from intermediaries such as search
engines and advertisers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  