-- VMware Profit Tops Estimates as Clients Add Server Software
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2012-01-23T21:59:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/vmware-sales-profit-top-analyst-estimates-as-clients-add-server-software.html
VMware Inc. (VMW) , the biggest maker of
software that lets computers run multiple operating systems,
reported sales and profit that topped estimates as corporations
bought more programs to make servers more efficient.  Fourth-quarter profit before certain costs was 62 cents a
share, VMware said in a statement today. That beat the 60-cent
average  estimate  of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales rose
27 percent to $1.06 billion, above the $1.05 billion average
prediction. First-quarter revenue will be as much as $1.04
billion, compared with analyst projections for $1.02 billion.
The shares jumped as much as 5.5 percent in extended trading.  Customers are investing in VMware’s software as they seek
to run more programs on a single computer and set up servers and
storage devices to run corporate programs in the so-called
cloud. The results dispelled concern among investors that growth
for VMware’s virtualization software was slowing and that
economic concerns might hamper corporate purchases, said  Brian Marshall , an analyst at ISI Group.  “These are very solid results,” said Marshall, who is
based in  San Francisco  and recommends buying VMware shares.
“Server virtualization is not dead. Growth is alive and well.”  VMware, majority-owned by  EMC Corp. (EMC) , rose as high as $90.75
after the report. Earlier, the stock declined 2.4 percent to $86
at the close in  New York . The shares fell 6.4 percent last year.  New Products  VMware, based in  Palo Alto ,  California , had said in October
some customers might slow spending on technology, leading it to
brace for a “challenging” 2012.  Still, the company is benefiting from sales of new
products, such as vSphere5 software, and contract renewals from
large businesses, Adam Holt, an analyst at Morgan Stanley, wrote
in a note today.  Net income in the fourth quarter rose to $200.4 million, or
46 cents a share, from $119.9 million, or 28 cents, a year
earlier, VMware said.  VMware Chief Financial Officer Mark Peek said the company
found corporate customers willing to spend their remaining
technology budgets in the fourth quarter, even as the credit
crisis in  Europe  made some businesses concerned about demand for
the current year.  “We had some concerns about the macroeconomic environment,
particularly in Europe, and whether or not customers would go
ahead and do the typical fourth-quarter budget flush,” he said
in an interview. “We believe they did.”  For the current year, customers are cautious but continuing
to spend, Peek said. The company’s forecast assumes conditions
don’t deteriorate from the second half of 2011, he said.  Sales for the full year will be $4.48 billion to $4.6
billion, the company said. Analysts on average had been
 predicting  $4.48 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  