-- Wheat, Corn Advance for a Third Day on Stronger Demand for U.S. Exports
-- B y   M a d e l e n e   P e a r s o n   a n d   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-01-23T11:42:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/wheat-corn-rally-for-third-day-on-optimism-over-demand-for-u-s-exports.html
Wheat and corn rose for a third day
in  Chicago  on stronger demand for exports from the U.S., the
world’s biggest shipper of both grains. Soybeans climbed.  U.S. export sales of corn and soybeans both more than
doubled in the week ended Jan. 12 from the prior period,
government figures released on Jan. 20 showed. Wheat sales
climbed 33 percent.  “The very good export figures for the U.S allow for price
consolidation in Chicago and for some optimism among the
operators with regards to the real impact of the crisis on
commodity demand,” Paris-based farm adviser Agritel wrote in a
market report today.  Wheat for March delivery advanced 1.3 percent to $6.1825 a
bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade by 12:22 p.m. Paris time.
Milling wheat for March delivery traded on NYSE Liffe in the
French capital rose 1.4 percent to 201.25 euros ($261.52) a
metric ton.  “We did see a relatively solid result in terms of U.S.
export sales,”  Luke Mathews , a commodity strategist at
Commonwealth Bank of  Australia , said by phone from Sydney.
“That is raising hopes out there that demand for U.S. grains
and oilseeds may prove a little stronger in the first quarter.”  Corn for March delivery gained 1.3 percent to $6.195 a
bushel. Soybeans for March delivery increased 1.4 percent to
$12.035 a bushel.  Areas of  Argentina  may get as much as 2.5 inches of rain by
today, while storms might bring as much as 1 inch to parts of
 Brazil , forecaster Telvent DTN said in a report on Jan. 20.  “The market continues to watch South American weather,”
Mathews said. “Conditions do look as though they are quite
conducive to crop development.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Madelene Pearson in Melbourne at 
 mpearson1@bloomberg.net ;
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  