-- Williams Loses at Australian Open as No. 4 Seeds Sharapova, Murray Advance
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-01-23T16:01:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/williams-loses-at-australian-open-as-kvitova-murray-advance.html
Five-time champion  Serena Williams 
lost in the fourth round of the Australian Open to end her 17-
match winning streak in Melbourne, where the men’s No. 6 seed,
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga, also was upset.  Defending men’s champion Novak Djokovic reached the
quarterfinals of the tennis season’s first Grand Slam tournament
for the fifth straight year. Both No. 4 seeds,  Andy Murray  and
 Maria Sharapova , also advanced.  Williams, the No. 12 seed and the last U.S. player left in
either main singles draw, was beaten 6-2, 6-3 at Rod Laver Arena
yesterday by Ekaterina Makarova, a 23-year-old Russian left-
hander who was the lowest-ranked female player in the fourth
round this year at No. 56 on the WTA tour list.  “I’m surprised because she’s a great player and it’s
really tough to play against her,” Makarova told reporters
after reaching her first quarterfinal at a major. “I played my
game, and that’s it. I won against Serena. That’s amazing.”  Defending women’s champion  Kim Clijsters  of Belgium plays
top seed  Caroline Wozniacki  and third-seeded  Victoria Azarenka 
of  Belarus faces Poland’s Agnieszka Radwanska in the
quarterfinals today. Juan Martin Del Potro of  Argentina  takes on
former champion  Roger Federer  of  Switzerland  and Tomas Berdych
of the Czech Republic plays 2009 champion  Rafael Nadal  of  Spain 
for berths in the men’s semifinals.  Williams, the winner of 13 Grand Slam singles titles, last
failed to reach the final eight at Melbourne Park in 2006, when
she lost in the third round. She won the tournament in 2009 and
2010 before missing last year’s event because of an injury.  Lost Serves  The 30-year-old American right-hander lost her serve five
times against Makarova and had seven double faults, including
four in the fifth game of the second set. She also made 37
unforced errors in the 82-minute match and said she would have
been better off serving left-handed.  “I can’t describe how I served, to be honest,” Williams
said. “It wasn’t good, though. It was just disastrous really. I
served horrendous.”  Makarova will next play Sharapova, another Russian who
fought off 14th-seeded Sabine Lisicki of Germany 3-6, 6-2, 6-3.  Sharapova, in the last eight in  Melbourne  for the first
time since she won the championship in 2008, had entered the
tournament having not played an official tour match since
October because of an ankle injury. She dropped the first set
after leading 3-0.  “The first three games were good, then it went south for a
bit, and then I got it together in the second,” said Sharapova,
who made 23 winners and more than twice as many errors. “The
third was a battle.”  Australian End  Djokovic of  Serbia  beat  Australia ’s  Lleyton Hewitt ,
formerly No. 1 in the world and playing in this year’s
tournament on a wild-card entry, 6-1, 6-3, 4-6, 6-3 in a match
that ended at 1:04 a.m. local time today at Rod Laver Arena to
complete the quarterfinal lineup. Djokovic dropped his first set
of the tournament after leading 3-0. He next plays fifth-seeded
Spaniard  David Ferrer , who beat Richard Gasquet of  France , the
No. 17 seed, 6-4, 6-4, 6-1.  “Have to give credit to my opponent,” Djokovic said in a
televised court-side interview. “He’s a great competitor, he
made me play an extra shot, and I made a few unforced errors.”  Djokovic had 37 unforced errors against 23 winners. Hewitt
had 55 winners and 34 unforced errors.  Hewitt, 30, was the last Australian left in the singles
draw. The nation that produced all-time Grand Slam singles
titles record-holder Margaret Court last won the Australian Open
title in 1976, when Mark Edmondson took the trophy. U.S. Open
champion Sam Stosur was upset in the first round of the women’s
draw.  Murray Wins  Wimbledon champion and No. 2 seed Petra Kvitova of the
 Czech Republic  and Murray of Britain advanced yesterday, while
No. 24 Kei Nishikori of Japan ousted Tsonga, the 2008 runner-up,
in five sets.  Murray was leading Mikhail Kukushkin 6-1, 6-1, 1-0 when the
Kazakhstan player quit the match with a hip injury.  “It’s good that I got to conserve some energy,” Murray,
who’s seeking to become the first British man to win a Grand
Slam title since 1936, said after spending 49 minutes on court
as the temperature rose to 34 degrees Celsius (93 degrees
Fahrenheit). “You can’t look at it as a negative. At this stage
of the tournament to be off the court in 45 minutes or so isn’t
bad.”  Swing and Miss  Kvitova beat former French Open champion Ana Ivanovic 6-2,
7-6 (7-2), recovering from a whiffed shot while leading 5-3 in
the second set. Ivanovic threw up a defensive lob from behind
the baseline. Kvitova missed the smash from close to the net and
the ball hit her in the chest.  “I know that it looks really strange when I miss it,”
Kvitova said. “I won, that is the important thing.”  She’ll next face unseeded Italian Sara Errani, who ousted
Zheng Jie of China 6-2, 6-1 to extend her best performance at a
major.  Nishikori became the first Japanese man to reach the last
eight at the Australian Open in 80 years by beating Tsonga 2-6,
6-2, 6-1, 3-6, 6-3 in 3 1/2 hours.  The last time a Japanese man reached the quarterfinals of
any Grand Slam tournament was in 1995, when Shuzo Matsuoka got
to the last eight at Wimbledon.  “Hopefully it’s big in  Japan ,” Nishikori, 22, said in a
televised court-side interview. “A lot of people messaged me a
couple of days ago when I got to the round of 16. Now it’s the
quarterfinal so I’m really excited.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes at Melbourne Park at  dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Joe Schneider at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  