-- ThyssenKrupp in Steel Talks With Outokumpu
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a   a n d   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-01-23T10:23:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/thyssenkrupp-in-steel-talks-with-outokumpu.html
ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  rose to its highest
level in more than two months as  Germany ’s largest steelmaker
discussed merging its Inoxum stainless unit with  Outokumpu Oyj. (OUT1V)   ThyssenKrupp (TKA)  gained as much as 3.9 percent to the highest
since Nov. 4. in  Frankfurt  trading, while Outokumpu jumped as
much as 17 percent, the most since Feb. 1, 2001, in Helsinki.
Options for Inoxum include an initial public offering, spinoff,
or sale, Essen-based ThyssenKrupp said in an e-mailed statement.  Finland’s biggest stainless steel company confirmed the
talks in a separate statement, saying they included the
possibility of a combination of Outokumpu and Inoxum.  “A merger would make perfect sense, especially for
Outokumpu, which would get much better access to central
 Europe ’s main markets in Germany and  Italy ,” Michael Broeker,
an analyst at Steubing AG who covers both companies, said by
phone from Frankfurt. “As Outokumpu doesn’t have the money for
a purchase, they’d need a deal with no cash involved.”  European stainless producers have struggled for years with
overcapacity, sliding profit and rising costs, while failing to
agree on mergers. Moody’s Investors Service said in August the
companies had been unable to value their assets at levels that
allowed deals to go ahead. Combinations may also be opposed by
European Union antitrust authorities, the ratings company said.  ThyssenKrupp rose 2.2 percent to 21.18 euros by 10:47 a.m.
in Frankfurt and Outokumpo surged 11 percent to 7.495 euros,
giving it a market value of 1.37 billion euros ($1.77 billion).  Other stainless steel producers advanced.  Aperam (APAM) , spun off
by ArcelorMittal, climbed as much as 11 percent in Amsterdam and
 Acerinox SA (ACX)  jumped as much as 5.7 percent in  Madrid .  Shouldering Deal  “I can’t imagine that the Finnish company can shoulder
this deal financially,” said Hans-Peter Wodniok at Fairesearch
GmbH in Kronberg, Germany, ranked No. 1 by Bloomberg among
analysts who cover ThyssenKrupp based on the stock’s one-year
return. “Finding a buyer for Inoxum isn’t easy at the moment so
ThyssenKrupp may sell for cheap or close to zero but that’s not
a helpful strategy as it doesn’t give you new cash.”  ThyssenKrupp on Dec. 2 posted a fiscal full-year loss
because of 2.9 billion euros in impairment charges, mainly on
project delays and cost overruns at its Steel Americas unit.
Inoxum contributed 800 million euros to the writedown, it said.  “Making Inoxum independent is an important step for the
strategic development of ThyssenKrupp, to make the company
competitive and sustainable for the future,” the German company
said. It reiterated an earlier goal of disposing of Inoxum in 12
to 18 months, declining to give more details of its discussions.  ThyssenKrupp will merge Inoxum with Outokumpu and keep a
minority stake in the combination, with 18,000 workers and more
than 10 billion euros of sales,  Rheinische Post  said earlier,
citing people close to the company that it didn’t identify.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net 
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  