-- ZTE, Apple, Mega Brands, Aramark: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-01-23T12:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-23/zte-apple-mega-brands-aramark-sopa-intellectual-property.html
ZTE Corp. (000063) , China’s second-largest
maker of phone equipment, said it and  Ericsson AB (ERICB)  agreed to
withdraw patent lawsuits against each other.  The companies are awaiting court approval to end the suits,
ZTE said in a statement to the Shenzhen Stock Exchange Jan. 19.
ZTE also denied that it was ordered to pay 500 million euros
($647 million) to Ericsson and was banned from entering the
European market. Stockholm-based Ericsson said in a separate
statement that the two parties agreed to drop all litigation and
signed a global cross-licensing agreement.  After “extensive discussion and consultation,” the
companies “have agreed to withdraw all patent infringement
litigations against each other,” ZTE said in the statement.
This includes lawsuits filed by Ericsson against ZTE in the
U.K.,  Germany  and  Italy , and a lawsuit filed by ZTE against
Ericsson in  China .  Ericsson, the world’s largest maker of wireless phone
networks, said in April that it filed lawsuits against ZTE in
 Europe , in connection with alleged infringement of several
handset and network technology patents.  “Ericsson has the strongest patent portfolio in the
industry with over 27,000 patents and any company which sells
mobile devices or systems needs a license from Ericsson,” Kasim
Alfalahi, chief  intellectual property  officer at Ericsson, said
in the statement. “We have signed more than 90 patent
agreements with different vendors worldwide. Now we can add ZTE
to this group.”  ZTE smartphone sales may double this year as they gain
market share in Europe,  North America ,  Brazil  and  Japan , the
company said last week.  That expansion in handsets may damp profit as the company
subsidizes purchases of the devices, said Bill Fan, an analyst
at Guosen Securities Co. in  Hong Kong , which rates the shares
“buy.”  Apple Seeks Patent on Configuration Alternatives for Batteries  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , maker of the iPod and iPhone, has applied for a
patent covering a variety of configurations for batteries to be
used in portable devices.  According to application  20120015236 , published in the
database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office Jan. 19, the
battery cell would include sets of electrode sheets of different
dimensions placed in a stacked configuration. This would allow a
better use of space inside the device, Apple said in its
application.  The shape wouldn’t be limited, as is presently the case
with most batteries for portable devices, to a rectangle.
According to illustrations published with the application, the
electrode sheets could be doughnut-shaped, triangular, pie-
shaped or pyramidal. The illustration shows them stacked in
descending sizes.  Cupertino, California-based Apple claimed in the
application that the technology for which it seeks a patent can
improve the “packaging efficiency, capacity, form factor, cost,
design, and/or manufacturing of battery packs containing
lithium-polymer battery cells.”  Apple filed the application for this patent in July 2010.  Products Infringing Skyrunner Patent Come to Crushing End  A U.K.-based intellectual property specialist turned to
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube to show the consequences of infringing a
patent belonging to one of his clients.  Edward Humphrey-Evans posted a video of a large vehicle
driving back and forth, destroying devices that infringed his
client’s patent EP1196220. The client, PYC International Inc. of
 Shanghai , makes devices known as Skyrunners. They are a springy
stilt-like device that enable users to perform feats of balance
and to jump to great heights.  The video, which runs for 36 seconds, shows Skyrunners both
loose on the ground and inside the box being crushed.  The IPKat blog, which reported on the video, noted that the
Skyrunners were crushed after they were seized because the
infringers lacked the money to send them to China at PYC’s
behest.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Mega Brands Drops Lego Trademark Suit After Customs Assurances  Mega Brands Inc. (MB) , the Montreal-based toymaker, said it has
dropped the week-old trademark suit it filed against  Lego A/S (LEGO) ,
attempting to invalidate the Danish toy company’s 1999
“functional” U.S. trademark.  According to a Jan. 20 statement, Mega Brands said it
dropped the suit after it learned from the U.S. Customers and
Border Protection agency that it wouldn’t interfere with the
importation of its products into the U.S.  In its Jan. 13 suit filed in federal court in Santa Ana,
 California , Mega Brands had accused Copenhagen, Denmark-based
Lego of using “fraudulently obtained IP rights” to interfere
with the Canadian company’s right to continue to import
competing products. At issue was the cylindrical stud on the
surface of Lego blocks that permits them to be attached to each
other.  Mega Brands had claimed that the configuration of the Lego
block was wholly functional, and not entitled to trademark
protection. It cited a number of unsuccessful trademark claims
Lego had made in other jurisdictions.  According to Bloomberg data, the order dismissing the case
on Mega Brands motion is “without prejudice,” which means that
the Canadian toy company can re-file it at a later date if
desired. The court also dismissed its temporary order barring
Lego from using its trademark in efforts to get the Mega Brands
product halted from entry into the U.S.  The case is Mega Brands Inc. v. Lego Juris A/s, 8:12-
cv-00064-JVS-AN, U.S. District Court, Central District of
California (Santa Ana).  Aramark Unit in Canadian Trademark Dispute With Small Company  Aramark Corp.’s CoffeeCompany unit is involved in a
trademark battle with a three-store coffee company in Ontario,
the Toronto Star  reported .  CoffeeCo of Kingston, Ontario, has been selling coffee
since 2007 and filed -- and later abandoned -- an application to
register “CoffeeCo” as a Canadian trademark, according to the
Star.  After the company’s owner contacted the Aramark unit, he
was sent letter telling him there was no likelihood of confusion
between the marks, and that CoffeeCompany had filed three
applications to register its name as a Canadian trademark in
2010, the newspaper reported.  Richard Ottenhof, CoffeCo’s owner, told the Star he’s
hoping to persuade CoffeeCompany to back down because he lacks
the money for a court fight and “I don’t have a prayer if I
don’t get them to behave in an ethical way.”  Vietnam ’s Bin Thuan Dragon Fruit Growers Get U.S. Trademark  A Vietnamese growers’ association registered a trademark
for the  magenta-colored dragon fruit  that is being imported into
the U.S.  According to the database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office, the mark was registered to the Department of Science and
Technology of Binh Thuan Province,  Vietnam’s largest grower of
the specialty fruit item . It is to be used with fresh dragon
fruit, which is the fruit of a member of the night-blooming
Hylocerus family.  The mark -- “Binh Thuan Dragon Fruit” -- is only to be
used with the fruit when grown in the province of Binh Thuan,
and planted, harvested and preserved in accordance with good
agricultural practices that conforms to “standards of
appearance, pulp, nutritious ingredients” as defined by the
certifying association.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Congress Shelves Hollywood-Backed Piracy Bills After Web Protest  U.S. Senate and House leaders shelved Hollywood-backed
anti-piracy legislation days after a global online protest by
Google Inc. and Wikipedia eroded congressional support.  Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid on Jan. 20 canceled a
Jan. 24 procedural vote on the Senate measure, the Protect IP
Act, while House Judiciary Committee Chairman Lamar Smith said
his panel would postpone consideration of the House bill, the
Stop Online Piracy Act.  “There is no reason that the legitimate issues raised by
many about this bill cannot be resolved,” Reid, a Nevada
Democrat, said in a statement dropping the vote. Reid said he’s
“optimistic that we can reach a compromise in the coming
weeks.”  The movie and music industries and the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce, the nation’s largest business-lobbying group, support
the Senate and House measures as a way to fight sales of pirated
content by non-U.S. websites. Internet companies say the bills
would promote online censorship, disrupt the Web’s architecture
and harm their ability to innovate.  The anti-piracy bills call for the  Justice Department  to
seek court orders forcing Internet-service providers,  search
engines , payment processors and online ad networks to block or
stop doing business with non-U.S. sites linked to piracy. The
measures would let private copyright holders seek court orders
forcing payment and ad companies to cut off such websites.  An offer by the bills’ lead sponsors to drop a provision
requiring Internet-service providers to block websites failed to
stop Google, Wikipedia and other websites from leading a protest
last week that unraveled the legislation’s prospects. At least
eight Senate co-sponsors, including seven Republicans, withdrew
their support or expressed reservations.  Visitors to Google, the world’s most popular search engine,
were greeted Jan. 18 by a black box covering the company’s
familiar icon, and a message that read “Tell Congress: Please
don’t censor the Web!” The message linked to a page outlining
Google’s opposition and an option to sign an online petition.  Reid’s move followed a call Jan. 19 by Senate Minority
Leader  Mitch McConnell  for delaying the chamber’s vote.  The “decision to set aside the bill will give Congress the
opportunity to study and resolve the serious issues with this
legislation and prevent a counterproductive rush ,” McConnell,
a Kentucky Republican, said in an e-mailed statement Jan. 20.  For copyright news, click here.  Obituary  Paul J. Luckern, Trade Commission’s Former Chief Judge, Dies  Paul J. Luckern , the retired chief administrative law judge
of the U.S. International Trade Commission, died, the ITC said
in a  statement  Jan. 19.  Judge Luckern, who retired in August at the age of 81, was
the longest-serving judge on the commission, a government agency
that has the power to bar the importation of infringing
products.  In 2008 he also took on the role of chief administrative
judge.  Before he was a lawyer, Judge Luckern was a chemist for the
 Eastman Kodak Co. (EK)  Additionally, he taught chemistry and did
graduate work under a research grant at the University of
 Southern California .  He had worked as a patent examiner at the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office and served as a patent consultant for J.R.
Geigy AG, which is now part of  Sandoz AG (SAN) .  From 1962 to 1964, he was a technical adviser to Judge I.
Jack Martin of the U.S. Court of Customs and Patent Appeals.  He practiced with the IP specialty firm of Fish & Neave,
now part of  Boston ’s  Ropes & Gray LLP . He left in 1971 to become
a trial attorney focused on intellectual property issued with
the  U.S. Department of Justice , and started his career as an
administrative law judge in 1981 with the Social Security
Administration. He moved over to the bench of the trade
commission in 1984.  Judge Luckern had an undergraduate degree in chemistry from
 Georgetown University , where he also received his law degree and
a master’s degree in law. He had a master’s degree in organic
chemistry from  Cornell University .  In an interview  posted on the website of  Chicago ’s  DLA
Piper LLP (1191L)  in June 2011, Judge Luckern laid out the role of the
trade commission. He said investigations conducted by the
commission ‘are not discriminatory against foreigners.’’  He said that companies, regardless of where they are based,
“have to establish some sort of relationship with the U.S. via
a domestic industry.” Once they do that, “they may come out
smelling like a rose. A beautiful rose!”  The commission protects technology, he said, “Where we are
in this country today is because of technology, and ITC
proceedings protect valid patents.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 