-- 
Abstract Painter Gets Concrete Bunker in Still Museum: Review

-- B y   J a m e s   S .   R u s s e l l
-- 
2011-11-28T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-28/abstract-painter-gets-concrete-bunker-in-still-museum-review.html
I couldn’t stop looking at a 1944
painting labeled PH-235. A fissure of red appeared to crack open
a heavily textured black field. I felt I could fall into that
yawning, monumental canvas.  It is a landmark painting by the enigmatic Clyfford Still
(1904-1980), whose work is celebrated in a new museum in Denver.
Single-artist museums can embalm. This one astonishes.  Rising to fame in the 1950s with such lions of abstract
expressionism as  Jackson Pollock ,  Mark Rothko  and Robert Motherwell, Still withdrew from the New York art world at the
peak of his fame, taking almost all of his work with him.  The diminutive 29,000-square-foot  Clyfford Still Museum ,
which opened Nov. 18, houses about 2,400 of the artist’s works.
Until now, his enormous stature has rested on less than 10
percent of his output during six decades.  The best of Still’s abstractions look as inevitable as the
heedless, randomly beautiful patterns of geology or flowing
water. The boxy bunker designed by architect Brad Cloepfil
bristles with ragged concrete fins, evoking Still’s intricate
compositions.  That roughened exterior radiates an elegant gravitas. It
forms a carapace that guards Still’s cerebral work from our
jangled, attention-deficit lives.  Cloepfil, of the Portland, Oregon, firm  Allied Works 
Architecture Inc., brings a Zen calm by framing the nine,
squarish second-floor galleries in planes of concrete and
painted drywall that alternately obscure and reveal, like Shoji
screens. He mixes salon-style rooms with high galleries topped
by a rippling scrim of concrete in which teardrop perforations
delicately shower the space with shimmering daylight.  Galleries Breathe  Each room feels contained, so that you stop and look rather
than glance and move on. The galleries still breathe because
Cloepfil opened corners to diagonal vistas that gently tease you
along.  I’ve never seen another museum that paces the art-viewing
experience so well.  Dean Sobel, the Still Museum’s director, working with
abstract expressionism expert David Anfam, presents a
chronological survey of about 100 of the museum’s holdings.  His early work depicts beaten-down Depression-era farm
workers he knew from his youth on the endless frozen plains of
the American and Canadian West, where he worked odd jobs,
studied art, and taught. In photos, Still’s own expression is
inevitably stern, with a sweep of gray hair topping rimless
engineer-style glasses.  Sobel sketches a transition toward abstraction, with
detours to surrealism and cubism weirdly inflected by art deco,
before Still finds his true voice in the 1940s.  Breakout Work  PH-235 (Still didn’t title works) hangs in an 18-foot-high
gallery with other breakout abstract expressionist paintings.
These would make him famous and influence contemporaries.  Here Cloepfil mixes the daylight showering from above with
sidelight that’s filtered to a limpid wash by the louvers of an
outside porch.  This is lighting so gorgeous you feel you could touch it.
Cloepfil worked with Brian Stacy, a lighting designer at the  New
York City  office of the engineering firm  Arup .  Sobel and Anfam have hung many drawings and paintings never
displayed before. Tiny explosions of bright colors erupt out of
huge swaths of dark brown and blue. I saw a psychic battlefield
in swirling, colliding vortices of paint.  Still sold little after he left New York City in 1961,
disgusted by what he saw as the art world’s soul-killing
machinations. He worked out of a small barn on a farm in rural
 Maryland  and developed a weakness for Jaguar cars. He died in
1980.  Will and Sale  His will offered his art to the American city that would
build a museum completely devoted to his work. Under then-Mayor
John Hickenlooper (who is now  Colorado ’s governor), Denver took
up the challenge. The museum raised $32 million privately and
built the $15 million structure.  Earlier this month Sotheby’s sold four paintings that had
been promised to the museum by Clyfford’s wife, Patricia, when
she died in 2005. They were auctioned to boost the endowment and
sold for $114.1 million.  While the museum did very well by the art market Still
disdained, the lush proceeds can only encourage cash-strapped
institutions to proffer their own crown jewels, museum ethics be
damned.  Thanks to Cloepfil, Still’s work now has a home that suits
his stormy majesty.  (James S. Russell writes on architecture for Muse, the arts
and culture section of Bloomberg News. Island Press has just
published his book, “The Agile City.” The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in New York at 
 jamesrussell@earthlink.net .  http://web.me.com/jscanlonrussell   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 