-- 
Thailand’s Industrial Output Slumps in October as Floods Damage Factories

-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 
2011-11-28T09:55:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-28/thailand-s-industrial-output-slumps-in-october-as-floods-damage-factories.html
Thailand ’s industrial output slumped
by the most in more than a decade in October as the nation’s
worst flooding in almost 70 years shut thousands of factories
and halted manufacturing.  The  industrial production index  fell 35.8 percent from a
year earlier, after a revised 0.3 percent contraction in
September, the Office of Industrial Economics said in a
statement today. The drop was the biggest since at least January
2000, the earliest data available on Bloomberg. The median of 11
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 15 percent
decline.  The Bank of Thailand signaled it has room to cut  interest
rates  to buttress the economy against faltering global growth
and floods that swamped seven industrial estates north of
Bangkok, closing factories operated by Western Digital Corp. and
Honda Motor Co. The National Economic and Social Development
Board said last week flood damage may reach 300 billion baht
($9.6 billion) as it slashed its forecasts for growth this year.  “Industrial production collapsed in October, offering the
first indication of the flooding’s impact on the real economy,”
said  Rahul Bajoria , a Singapore-based regional economist at
Barclays Plc. “We think the central bank is likely to provide
monetary stimulus in its meeting” on Nov. 30, he said.  Slower Growth  Thailand’s finance ministry cut its 2011 economic growth
forecast to 1.7 percent to 2 percent from 2.6 percent earlier,
Somchai Sujjapongse, head of the fiscal policy office, told
reporters in Bangkok today. The ministry expects gross domestic
product to expand 5 percent next year as the government spends
to rebuild damaged areas, he said.  Thailand makes about a quarter of the world’s hard-disk
drives and serves as a production hub for Japanese carmakers and
electronics firms.  Auto production fell 61.3 percent in October from a year
earlier, the Office of Industrial Economics said today. Toyota
Motor Corp. suspended its local production from Oct. 10 to Nov.
21, while Honda, which halted manufacturing since Oct. 9 hasn’t
set the date when it will resume output, it said.  Hard disk drive production fell 52.4 percent last month
from a year ago, while manufacturing of electronics parts
slumped 45.5 percent, the Office of Industrial Economics said,
adding it may take one to two months before plants can resume
operations after waters recede.  ‘Hardest Hit’  The “manufacturing sector was among the hardest hit in
last month’s floods,” Radhika Rao, an economist at Forecast Pte
in  Singapore , said before the report. The odds for the central
bank to cut its key rate by 0.5 percentage point at its meeting
this week is “on the rise,” she said.  Southeast Asia ’s second-largest economy may contract 3.7
percent in the fourth quarter, the National Economic and Social
Development Board said Nov. 21. It cut its forecast for growth
this year to 1.5 percent from as much as 4 percent earlier.  Exports grew 0.3 percent in October, the slowest pace in
two years, as weakening global demand and the floods curbed
overseas sales. Shipments may contract 15 percent in the fourth
quarter as many factories will take time to resume operations,
the Commerce Ministry said Nov. 22.  Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra has proposed spending
130 billion baht on rehabilitation and measures to prevent
future floods. The damage from the disaster, which has claimed
more than 600 lives since July, may reach 400 billion baht,
Barclays estimates.  Thailand’s  unemployment rate  may climb to 1.8 percent to
2.3 percent in the fourth quarter because of widespread flooding,
the National Economic and Social Development Board said in
Bangkok today.  The jobless rate will recover in the first quarter and
return to a normal state in the second quarter as manufacturing
resumes, it said. In the first nine months, the unemployment
rate stood at 0.7 percent, the agency said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net  