-- 
Taiwan Dollar Snaps Six-Day Drop on Italy Report; Bonds Steady

-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 
2011-11-28T09:27:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-28/taiwan-dollar-snaps-six-day-drop-on-italy-report-bonds-decline.html
Taiwan’s dollar snapped a six-day
decline as speculation the  International Monetary Fund  will help
Italy boosted optimism Europe will be able to contain its debt
crisis, spurring demand for emerging-market assets.  The local dollar rebounded from a six-week low and the
 Taiex (TWSE)  index of shares rallied by the most in two weeks after
Italian newspaper La Stampa reported the loan plan. The currency
pared earlier gains as the IMF said in an e-mailed statement it
is not in talks with Italy about a loan program. Global funds
bought $39 million more of the island’s stocks than they bought
today, ending an eight consecutive days of net sales, according
to exchange data.  “It’s mostly foreign funds and exporters buying the Taiwan
dollar today on the good news from Europe,” said  Henry Lin , a
Taipei-based foreign-exchange trader at Taiwan Shin Kong
Commercial Bank. “But bad news should continue to dominate the
market, leading the  Taiwan dollar  on a weaker trend.”  The Taiwan dollar strengthened to NT$30.452 against its
U.S. counterpart from NT$30.460 last week, according to Taipei
Forex Inc. The currency touched NT$30.505 on Nov. 25, the
weakest level since Oct. 12. Lin forecast it will weaken to
NT$31 by the end of the year. The benchmark share index rose 1.7
percent.  Government bonds  were little changed. The yield on the 1.25
percent bonds due September 2021, the most-traded securities,
was 1.326 percent, prices from Gretai Securities Market show.  The  overnight money-market rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, was steady at 0.396 percent, according to
a weighted average compiled by the Taiwan Interbank Money
Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  