-- 
Philippine Stocks: Alliance, Alsons, Holcim, Metro Pacific

-- B y   I a n   C .   S a y s o n
-- 
2011-11-28T05:33:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-28/alliance-anchor-land-metro-pacific-philippine-stocks-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
had  unusual (PCOMP)  moves in  Philippine (PASHR)  trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of the close in Manila.  The Philippine Stock Exchange Index decreased 0.8 percent
to 4,227.88, the lowest close since Nov. 3.  Alliance Global Group Inc. (AGI)   fell 1.4 percent to
10.14 pesos, after the Philippine Star cited President Kingson
Sian as saying the company’s joint venture with Genting Hong
Kong Ltd. will spend $1.1 billion on a casino-hotel resort in
Manila. The stock sank as much as 2.7 percent earlier today.  “The massive  capital expenditures  would lead to a capital
call on the part of Alliance to fund this investment and this
comes when the  global outlook remains uncertain,” Macquarie
Group Ltd. analyst Alex Pomento said by phone. Sian couldn’t be
reached in his office for comment.  Alsons Consolidated Resources Inc. (ACR)   advanced 4.2
percent to 1.25 pesos, the highest close since Nov. 18, as the
company said it may spend $200 million to build a power plant in
the Philippine province of Sarangani. The company is also
interested in bidding for power-supply contracts in Saipan and
Guam, it said in a statement to the stock exchange.  Holcim Philippines Inc. (HLCM)  , the nation’s largest
cement producer, decreased 4.2 percent to 7.95 pesos, the lowest
close since Sept. 8, 2010. The government said construction
shrank 12 percent in the third quarter, following a 23 percent
decline in the previous three months.  Metro Pacific Investments Corp. (MPI)   declined 2.3
percent to 3.40 pesos, the sharpest loss since Nov. 3, after the
company said it may bid for the Philippine Orthopedic Center
that the government plans to upgrade through its so-called
public-private partnership program.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian C. Sayson in  Manila  at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  