-- 
Drogba Rejects 1-Year Extension to Chelsea Contract, Mirror Says: Roundup

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 
2011-11-29T11:33:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-28/manchester-united-mulls-bid-for-atalanta-s-gabbiadini-sun-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers with clickable links to the Web.  Drogba Decision  Striker  Didier Drogba  turned down a one-year contract
extension with Chelsea, and may accept a larger offer from
Russia, Qatar or the U.S., the  Daily Mirror  said.  The 33-year-old wants to stay at Stamford Bridge, where
he’s regained his starting place from Fernando Torres, although
his agent Thierno Seydi said he will “go where he is offered
the most money,” the newspaper said.  Corluka Pressure  Tottenham defender Vedran Corluka is pressuring for a
transfer so he can earn a spot in Croatia’s squad for next
year’s European Championship,  the Sun said .  The 25-year-old may go out on loan after starting only five
games for Spurs, the newspaper said.  United Winger  Manchester United manager  Alex Ferguson  is preparing a bid
for AZ Alkmaar winger Rasmus Elm as he seeks cover for the
injured Anderson,  the Daily Star said .  Elm came to Ferguson’s attention when he played for Sweden
against England at Wembley stadium this month, the Star said.  Tracking Podolski  Arsenal had scouts watching Cologne striker  Lukas Podolski 
during last week’s match with Borussia Monchengladbach, the
 Daily Mirror  said.  The 26-year-old may be available for 20 million pounds
($31.3 million), the newspaper said. Gunners coach Arsene Wenger
is looking for backup for  Robin van Persie , the Mirror said.  Spurs for Valero  Tottenham manager  Harry Redknapp  may try to sign Villarreal
midfielder Borja Valero,  the Sun said.   The 26-year-old, who used to play for West Bromwich Albion,
has been performing well in Spain and Spurs could sign him for 9
million pounds, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  