-- 
Asian Currencies Advance, Led by Won, as U.S. Data Boost Export Outlook

-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o   a n d   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 
2011-11-28T09:16:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-28/asian-currencies-strengthen-led-by-korea-s-won-on-imf-italy-loan-report.html
Asian currencies advanced, led by
 South Korea ’s won, as U.S. economic data over the weekend
spurred optimism that the region’s export-led growth is intact.  The  MSCI Asia-Pacific Index (MXAP)  of shares rose by the most in
three weeks after retail sales in the U.S. over the Thanksgiving
weekend surged 16 percent to a record. The won snapped a six-day
drop before a report on Dec. 1 that will show South Korean
export growth accelerated, according to the median forecast of
economists in a Bloomberg survey.  “Investors are reacting to the U.S sales data,” said Yun Se Min, a Seoul-based currency trader at Busan Bank.
“Increasing consumption is good news for Korea’s export-
oriented economy.”  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar  Index , which tracks the
region’s 10 most-active currencies excluding the yen, rose 0.2
percent to 114.65 as of 4:16 p.m. in  Hong Kong . The won climbed
0.9 percent to 1,154.35 per dollar, India’s rupee advanced 0.6
percent to 51.9362 and the  Philippine peso  gained 0.4 percent to
43.78, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Italian newspaper La Stampa said in an unsourced report
yesterday that the  International Monetary Fund  is preparing a
600 billion euro ($799 billion) loan for  Italy . An IMF official
said today that the Washington-based lender isn’t in talks with
Italy about a loan program for the debt-laden country.  Export Forecast  The won rebounded from a six-week low as manufacturers’
confidence for December rose to 83 from 82 in November,
according to central bank data released today. Exports rose 10.4
percent in November from a year earlier, after having grown a
revised 8 percent in October, according to the median forecast
of economists in the Bloomberg survey.  India ’s rupee rebounded from a slide last week on optimism
policy makers will unveil additional measures to stem losses.
The nation’s central bank removed a $100 million limit on net
foreign-currency sales via swaps on Nov. 23. Companies borrowing
abroad can now pay as much as 3.5 percentage points over the
London Interbank Offered Rate for loans longer than three years
and up to five years, raising the cap by 50 basis points.  The Philippine peso halted a three-day slide on speculation
the government will increase spending to boost domestic growth.
The nation’s  economy  grew 3.2 percent in the third quarter,
compared with a revised 3.1 percent pace in the preceding three
months and below the 4.1 percent forecast by economists surveyed
by Bloomberg, a report showed today.  Inflation Outlook  The yuan declined to its weakest level in a month on
speculation  China  will slow the pace of appreciation to protect
its exporters as inflation cools. The yuan fell 0.15 percent to
6.3846 per dollar and touched 6.3871, the weakest level since
Oct. 21, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.  Increases in consumer prices are expected to moderate in
the last two months of the year, Shanghai Securities News
reported today, citing Yu Bin, a researcher from the State
Council’s Development Research Center. The yuan may be “near
its equilibrium” following a decline in the nation’s foreign-
exchange reserves,  Li Yang , a former central bank adviser, said
on Nov. 26.  “There is less need for China to strengthen the yuan to
lower import prices as inflation is easing,” said Banny Lam, a
Hong Kong-based economist at CCB International Securities Ltd.,
a unit of China’s second-largest lender. “The worsening
economic outlook may also steer officials toward protecting
exports.”  Elsewhere,  Thailand ’s baht gained 0.3 percent to 31.33 per
dollar while the  Taiwan dollar  was little changed at NT$30.452.
 Indonesia ’s rupiah dropped 1.6 percent to 9,200, according to
prices from local banks compiled by Bloomberg. Financial markets
in  Malaysia  were closed for a public holiday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  