-- 
Latvia Freezes Antonov Assets After Krajbanka Takeover, TV3 Says

-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 
2011-11-28T10:55:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-28/latvia-freezes-antonov-assets-after-krajbanka-takeover-tv3-says.html
Latvia  froze assets, including a
house and 14 luxury cars, that belong to  Vladimir Antonov  after
regulators halted operations at his  Latvijas Krajbanka AS (LKB1R)  last
week,  TV3’s  Neka Personiga reported, citing the police.  The cars are valued at about 1 million euros ($1.3
million), the television program reported. Antonov’s house in
Jurmala, a seaside city outside the Latvian capital, Riga, was
also seized, the television program said.  Lithuania’s government took over  Bankas Snoras AB (SRS1L) , the
country’s third-biggest bank by deposits, on Nov. 16 after the
central bank discovered that assets reported on the lender’s
balance sheet were missing. The Latvian bank regulator suspended
operations at Krajbanka, a local unit of Snoras, on Nov. 21 and
says about 100 million lati ($190.8 million) may be missing. The
regulator said today an insolvency procedure for Krajbanka will
be filed in court this week.  Former Snoras owners Antonov and Raimondas Baranauskas told
a U.K. judge on Nov. 25 they were innocent of Lithuanian
allegations of fraud and embezzlement that pushed the bank into
insolvency.  Antonov, 36, and Baranauskas, 53, were granted bail by
Judge Caroline Tubbs at a hearing in  London . They were arrested
in the U.K. capital Nov. 24 after Lithuanian authorities issued
a European arrest warrant.  Antonov “strenuously denies dishonesty in any of his
dealings,” Rachel Scott, his lawyer, told the court. “He
doesn’t impose a serious flight risk.”  The men are accused of stealing about 879 million litas
($339 million) through forgery and misappropriation, U.K.
prosecutor Natalie Soule said. They allegedly forged documents
to show false deposits in unspecified Swiss banks, Soule said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  