-- 
Australian, N.Z. Dollars Rise to One-Week High on Buoyed Demand for Risk

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-11-29T17:24:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-28/australia-n-z-dollars-near-week-high-before-european-meeting-on-crisis.html
The Australian and  New Zealand 
dollars rose to the highest level in a week as a boost in
American  consumer confidence  this month spurred demand for
higher-yielding assets.  The Aussie rose above parity with the greenback as stocks
extended a global rally. The currency earlier fell as
 Australia ’s government said it will reduce spending by
A$6.8 billion ($6.8 billion) to deliver a surplus, adding
pressure on the  Reserve Bank  of Australia to lower rates.  “We’d look at a rally in the Aussie above parity as an
opportunity to sell the currency, looking for some further
weakness into year-end,” said Jim Vrondas, a manager at the
online foreign-exchange dealer OzForex Ltd. in Sydney.  Australia’s dollar appreciated 1.3 percent to $1.0031 at
12:20 p.m. New York time, rising above parity with its U.S.
counterpart for the first time since Nov. 21. New Zealand’s
dollar advanced 1.1 percent to 76.31 U.S. cents and earlier
reached 76.52 cents, the highest since Nov. 17.  The Aussie was the best performer against the U.S. dollar
yesterday among the most-traded currencies, rising 2 percent as
equities rallied worldwide. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) 
increased 0.7 percent today after gaining 2.9 percent yesterday.  Demand for Australia’s currency declined earlier after the
Treasury issued its midyear fiscal update.  ‘Risk Environment’  The reduction in  government spending  “gives the market a
little more confidence that fiscal policy won’t be in the way of
the RBA responding to global factors,” said Gavin Stacey, chief
interest-rate strategist at Barclays Plc in Sydney. “The Aussie
may fall into the low 90s in the near term with the risk
environment likely to get worse before it gets better.”  Americans were less pessimistic on the outlook for jobs and
wages this month, a report showed. The Conference Board’s index
increased to 56 from a revised 40.9 reading in October in the
biggest monthly gain since April 2003, figures from the New
York-based private research group showed today. The gauge, at a
four-month high, exceeded the most optimistic forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  