-- 
Australia Has Scope to Slash Rates to Offset Turmoil, OECD Says

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-11-28T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-28/australia-has-scope-to-slash-rates-to-offset-turmoil-oecd-says.html
Australia  has scope to cut  interest
rates  should Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis stall global growth,
the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said,
a scenario investors already are betting on.  If downside risks to the international economy materialize,
“monetary policy should be eased significantly to sustain
demand in the context of moderating inflation,” the OECD said
in its economic outlook released in Paris today. Australia’s
government could also boost spending, it said, though that would
delay a pledged return to a  budget surplus  in 2012-13.  The OECD predicts the nation’s economy will expand 4
percent next year, driven by mining investment and elevated
commodity prices, after 1.8 percent growth this year. The
estimates were lower than May forecasts for 4.5 percent growth
in 2012 and 2.9 percent this year, reflecting threats  Europe ’s
crisis pose to growth in Asian nations that buy Australian iron
ore and coal.  Australia’s central bank responded to the heightened global
risks and weaker inflation pressure by lowering its benchmark
rate by a quarter percentage point to 4.5 percent on Nov. 1, the
first reduction in 31 months. Swaps traders wager policy makers
will need to cut again and reduce borrowing costs by more than
1.5 percentage points over the next year, a Credit Suisse Group
AG Index shows.  Less Room  In  New Zealand , while the central bank has less scope to
reduce rates from the current record-low 2.5 percent, it could
do so in the event of a global slowdown, the OECD said.  “With  core inflation  and inflation expectations still
above the mid-point of the  Reserve Bank ’s 1-3 percent inflation
target band, the room for interest rate cuts may be limited,”
the OECD said. It said New Zealand would also need to be
cautious in its fiscal response to a global downturn.  “Whereas net public debt is low, fiscal space is limited
by global financial-market turbulence, given the dependence on
external borrowing by banks and, increasingly, the government,”
the OECD said. “Whereas automatic stabilizers should be allowed
to work in the event of a sharp downturn, the underlying
consolidation program should continue.”  New Zealand’s economy is projected to grow by 2 percent to
3 percent over the coming two years as reconstruction from an
earthquake in the southern city of Christchurch in February
gains momentum and export commodity prices remain high, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  