-- 
Bank of Israel Likely to Cut Base Rate Due to European Turmoil

-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 
2011-11-28T09:11:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-28/bank-of-israel-likely-to-cut-base-rate-due-to-european-turmoil.html
The Bank of  Israel  may lower its
 benchmark interest rate  in a bid to soften the impact of
 Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis on the domestic economy.  The monetary policy committee, in its second decision since
being appointed in October, will reduce the lending rate by a
quarter-percentage point to 2.75 percent, according to 17 of 21
forecasters  polled by Bloomberg . Four said the rate is likely to
remain unchanged. The Bank of Israel will announce its decision
at 5:30 p.m. in  Jerusalem .  “There’s no real choice, the situation in Europe means
that the interest rate has to be reduced,” Ron Eichel, chief
economist at Meitav Mutual Fund Management in Tel Aviv, said in
a telephone interview.  The  Bank of Israel  unexpectedly reduced the rate in
September for the first time in more than two years, citing a
“negative turnaround” in the global economy and weakness in
Israeli exports. Israel has been joined by Australia, Brazil,
Denmark, Romania, Serbia, Indonesia, Georgia and Pakistan in
lowering  interest rates  since late August in response to the
European turmoil. Chile, Mexico, Norway, Peru, Poland and Sweden
are also forecast by JPMorgan Chase & Co. to lower borrowing
costs by the end of the first quarter.  Israel’s benchmark bonds have fallen after reaching a peak
for the year three weeks ago, pushing yields to a more than two-
month high.  The yield on the 5.5 percent notes due in January
2022 climbed one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 4.8
percent at 10:12 a.m. in  Tel Aviv , the highest since Sept. 20.
The rate has increased from 4.52 percent on Nov. 7, the lowest
since the bonds were sold in April.  Inflation  slowed to 2.7 percent in October, within the
government’s target of 1 percent to 3 percent for a second
month. Housing purchase prices, which are reported alongside the
 consumer price index  and are not included in it, dropped 0.2
percent in August-September, the last period measured, the first
decline since November-December 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  