-- 
BHP CEO Says Any Euro Breakup Would Have No Effect on Books

-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 
2011-11-28T05:23:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-28/bhp-ceo-says-any-euro-breakup-would-have-no-effect-on-books.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the biggest
mining company, said any breakup of the euro currency won’t
affect its books because its sales and trade exposures are
denominated in dollars.  “We do all of our books in American dollars - all of our
trade exposures are U.S. dollar denominated, our bank loans are
U.S. dollar denominated, our bonds have been swapped to U.S.
dollars so from all of those perspectives, we don’t really see
any real impact,”  Marius Kloppers , chief executive officer of
the world’s 14th-largest listed company, said today on a call
with reporters. “The biggest thing on the breakup of the euro,
should it eventuate, is just more what happens in terms of
global dynamics, global growth, global credit flow.”  The sovereign-debt crisis is dragging on global economic
growth, causing equity and asset prices to fall as well as
prompting households to spend less. Investor concern the euro is
at risk is mounting as bond yields in the 17-nation bloc rise to
records and costs to insure its members against default jump.  The crisis is hampering European banks, usually major
providers of trade finance in  Asia , from lending funds, Kloppers
said on the call. Heightened volatility and an uncertain
economic outlook will put pressure on commodities markets even
as long-term demand remains strong, he said at the Nov. 17
shareholders meeting in Melbourne.  Rio Tinto   Rio Tinto Group (RIO) , the second-biggest mining company, said
today continuing stress in the euro zone and a weaker outlook
for the  U.S. economy  are affecting customer sentiment, which has
become more negative in recent months.  BHP sold $3 billion notes on Nov. 16, its first bonds since
2009, cutting relative borrowing costs in half as investors
reward Australia’s biggest company for surging exports to China.  “The balance sheet is pristine,” Alex Vanselow, BHP’s
outgoing chief financial officer, said on the call. “We just
did a $3 billion  bond issue . So that builds another layer of
security into the balance sheet.”  Vanselow, 49, will be replaced by Graham Kerr, 40, who was
most recently president of diamonds and specialty products, BHP
said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  