-- 
Canadian Lenders’ Investment-Banking Revenue to Fall on European Crisis

-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-11-28T05:02:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-28/canadian-investment-banking-revenue-to-fall-on-european-crisis.html
Canadian lenders including  Royal
Bank of Canada (RY)  and  Bank of Montreal (BMO)  may report lower revenue
from investment banking in the fourth quarter as capital markets
activity slows amid the European debt crisis.  “If we start talking big European bank failures, there’s
no way to completely isolate yourself from that as a financial
institution in Canada,” said  Robert Sedran , an analyst at CIBC
World Markets in Toronto. “The biggest impact is going to be
around sluggish economic growth and a lousy trading
environment.”  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Bank Index  has dropped 8.9
percent this month on concern that an economic slowdown sparked
by Europe will overshadow rising profits from the fiscal fourth
quarter. Canada’s eight biggest lenders will probably report
average profit growth of 12 percent for the quarter ended Oct.
31, according Scotia Capital analyst Kevin Choquette.  The banks begin reporting results on Dec. 1, starting with
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, the No. 5 bank, and  Toronto-
Dominion Bank (TD) , the second largest. Profits will be bolstered by
lower taxes and fewer provisions for bad loans, Choquette said.  Market-sensitive fees, which include revenue from capital
markets and asset management, may drop 6 percent to C$5.77
billion ($5.5 billion), according to Macquarie Capital Markets
analyst Sumit Malhotra. That’s the lowest level in more than a
year and includes a projected 46 percent decline in trading
revenue and 13 percent contraction in underwriting and advisory
fees.  Stock Financing  “The big wild card with all the banks these days is
profits on proprietary trading,” said David Baskin, president
of Baskin Financial Services in Toronto, which oversees about
C$400 million, including bank shares. “I just don’t know how
you predict that.”  Canadian equity financings, including preferred shares,
were $6.9 billion in the quarter, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, down from $7.6 billion a year ago. At the same time,
Canadian corporate bond sales plunged by half to C$8.94 billion.  Europe’s sovereign debt crisis “does not pose a material,
direct risk to  Canada ’s six-largest banks”, National Bank
Financial analyst  Peter Routledge  said in a Nov. 15 note.  Canada’s banks have about $195 billion in gross exposure to
Europe, of which $15.7 billion is to Greece, Ireland, Portugal,
Spain and Italy, Routledge said, based on Bank of International
Settlements data. Any losses to Canada’s banks from over-
indebtedness of those five countries “would be immaterial to
even one quarter’s earnings,” he said.  U.K. Assets  The Canadian banking system’s largest European exposure is
to borrowers from the U.K., with about $88 billion in gross
claims, Routledge said.  “Contagion risk becomes a concern for Canada’s banks only
if the U.K. gets caught up in the broader European financial
crisis.”  Toronto-based Canadian Imperial is expected to have profit
before one-time items of C$1.80 a share, according to the
average  estimate  of 16 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. That
compares with C$1.68 a year earlier. Toronto-Dominion is
expected to report profit of C$1.54 a share, a 12 percent
increase.  Royal Bank, the country’s largest lender, and No. 3  Bank of
Nova Scotia (BNS)  will report results Dec. 2. Toronto-based Royal Bank
is expected to have profit of 97 cents a share, up 15 percent.
Scotiabank, also in Toronto, is expected to post profit of
C$1.08 a share, a 5.9 percent increase.  Bank of Montreal, Canada’s fourth-largest lender, may have
profit of C$1.31 a share when it releases results Dec. 6. That
would be a 4 percent increase from the year earlier.  National Bank of Canada (NA) ,  Laurentian Bank of Canada (LB)  and
 Canadian Western Bank (CWB) , the three smallest banks of the group,
may raise dividends, analysts said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 David Scanlan  at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 