-- 
China’s Chen Sees No Europe Progress, Signals Concern at Opening Markets

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-11-28T07:26:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-28/chen-europe-yet-to-take-a-step-toward-success.html
Chinese Commerce Minister  Chen Deming  said  Europe  has yet to take any significant step in
tackling the region’s debt crisis and signaled that his nation
may resist further opening its markets.   “We have yet to see a step towards success,” Chen said at 
a conference in Beijing today. “We are willing to further reform 
and further open our market, but other economies must be more 
open to us in return.”  World leaders are looking to China as a driver of global
growth and a potential source of funds for stemming the crisis
that threatens to engulf  Italy  and trigger a slump.  Lou Jiwei , 
the chief executive of China’s sovereign wealth fund, said in a 
Financial Times article that  China  Investment Corp. wants to 
participate in infrastructure investment in developed countries.  Chen said that China will ask for more in return before
making further agreements to open its economy, citing blocks to
investment by Chinese banks in the U.S. and adding that his
nation “over-pledged” when it joined the  World Trade
Organization  in 2001. Efforts to resolve Europe’s crisis had so
far amounted to a reshuffling of leaders, he said, adding that
China will be part of any global aid.  Jesse Wang, the executive vice president of CIC said in an
interview in Beijing last week that the organization may give
“indirect” support to Europe through investments without being
the nation’s main route for any aid.  Growth Boost  “Infrastructure in Europe and the U.S. badly needs more
investment,” Lou, wrote in the Financial Times. “One need only
look at China to see what can be achieved” by such spending
which is an “important” way to raise consumption, he said.  China, the world’s second-largest economy, has expanded an
average 10.5 percent a year over the past decade, boosted by
spending on transport, energy and water projects. The
government’s $586 billion stimulus package to cushion the
country from the 2008 global financial crisis helped raise
growth to more than 10 percent from 6.8 percent, Lou said.  The world can’t count on  developing countries  to deliver a
stable economic recovery on their own, Lou said, noting that
while China has taken “ambitious and effective measures” to
stimulate domestic demand, consumption in the nation is still
small as a share of the global total.  Governments in developed economies can bolster demand
through infrastructure investment which will generate demand for
equipment manufacturing, put more people on the payroll and cut
back on unemployment benefit spending, Lou said.  China ‘Keen’  China is “keen to get involved,” Lou said. Infrastructure
represents a “suitable choice” for sovereign wealth funds to
invest directly or through fund managers to seek “stable and
sound financial returns” guided by “commercial principles,”
he said.  CIC is looking to team up with fund managers or participate
in public-private-partnerships in the U.K.’s infrastructure
sector as an equity investor, Lou said.  Beijing-based CIC, which managed $409.6 billion by the end
of 2010, has increased its investment in infrastructure, real-
estate and private-equity assets as well as emerging markets
since 2010 to help boost returns, according to its annual report.
The fund posted an 11.7 percent return on its overseas
investments last year, compared with the 9.6 percent gain in the
 MSCI World Index. (MXWO)   Governments should introduce pro-investment policies such
as tax breaks and cheap bank loans to create an attractive
environment, Lou said. Countries seeking external investment
should relax regulatory restrictions where necessary and promote
transparency and predictability for investors, he said.  China, which has traditionally been involved in such
projects as a contractor, is now seeking to participate as an
investor, developer and operator, Lou said.  --Zheng Lifei, Li Yanping. Editors: Paul Panckhurst, Nerys Avery  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at   lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  