-- 
China Will Ban Commercials During TV Dramas as Control of Media Tightened

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-11-29T10:57:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-28/china-to-ban-commercials-during-tv-dramas.html
China  will ban television stations
from airing commercials during broadcasts of dramas starting
Jan. 1, further limiting the $68.6 billion  TV advertising  market
in the world’s second-biggest economy.  Television stations may face reprimand or the loss of
commercial broadcast rights if they air advertising during the
45-minute episodes, the  State Administration of Radio, Film and
Television  said in a  statement  on its website yesterday. The
rule is meant to “lift the standards of public cultural
services” and “protect the people’s basic cultural rights,”
the regulator said.  The restrictions add to actions China has taken to increase
control of TV and web content after the Communist Party, which
censors criticism of its rule in the media, said last month it
would promote “fine” TV programming and strengthen management
of online social media sites. In addition to TV, the city of
Beijing in April also began banning outdoor ads that promote
“hedonism, lavishness and the worship of foreign things.”  “This would seem to affect how profitable TV programming
can be,” James Roy, an analyst for China Market Research Group,
said by telephone today. “Advertisers are definitely going to
take notice because any time you’re not getting ads in the
middle of programs it decreases the value sharply, and makes TV
a less attractive advertising medium.” Roy said he didn’t have
an estimate for the value of ad revenue that will be lost due to
the ban during TV dramas.  Ad Money  Yum! Brands Inc. ,  L’Oreal SA (OR) , and  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  are
among companies that spent $68.6 billion on TV ads in China last
year, according to researcher  CTR MarketResearch Co.  TV
accounted for more than three-quarters of ad spending in
traditional media last year, which excludes online marketing,
according to CTR.  In the first nine months of this year, TV advertising
increased 14 percent from the same period of 2010, according to
CTR. Total annual TV ad spending grew 11 percent last year from
2009, according to the researcher.  The ban creates an economic disincentive to produce TV
dramas, which conservative party leaders think are “vulgar and
in some cases anti-socialist,” Willy Wo-Lap Lam, an adjunct
professor of Chinese history at the Chinese University of  Hong
Kong , said by telephone today. The overthrow of governments in
North Africa this year has also increased the desire to use TV
for propaganda, he said.  TV Propaganda  “They want to ensure they can use prime-time TV as a
propaganda tool to promote patriotism, positive values about the
party and focus on the brighter side of socialism,” Lam said.  If the limits reduce the number of dramas broadcast on TV,
many consumers may be spurred to opt for online entertainment
instead, China Market Research Group’s Roy said.  Youku.com Inc. (YOKU) 
and  Tudou Holdings Ltd.  are China’s biggest online video sites.  The Communist Party’s  Central Committee  released a
communique after a meeting in October vowing to “promote more
fine literary and artistic works” in fields such as television,
movies and photography. At the same time, the media regulator
unveiled limits on the number of “overly entertaining and
vulgar” reality and talent shows that could be aired on TV.  The communique also said the government would strengthen
management of online social media sites, on which users have
criticized the government and exposed official graft.  Online Content  Earlier this month, executives from China’s biggest web
companies, including  Baidu Inc.  Chief Executive Robin Li,
Alibaba Group Holdings Ltd. Chairman Jack Ma and  Sina Corp. 
Chief Executive Charles Chao pledged to curb “illegal and
harmful” online content at meetings with the government, the
official Xinhua News Agency reported.  In September, the media regulator ordered Hunan Television
to suspend broadcasts of its “Super Girl” singing competition,
similar to “ American Idol ,” for infractions including the
exceeding of limits on the length of the shows, Xinhua reported.
“Super Girl,” the most-watched of China’s TV talent
competitions, drew more than 400 million viewers for its finale
in 2005 at the peak of its popularity, according to Xinhua.  Hunan Television earned about 100 million yuan ($15.7
million) this year from selling advertising slots during the
“Super Girl” show, according to a report by Charm
Communications, an ad agency in China. The show, which first
aired in 2004, allowed the audience to select the winner of its
signing competition by voting via websites and mobile phones.  Government-Owned  All Chinese broadcasters are owned by either the central
government or by local provincial and city governments.
Government control over these local TV stations is less direct,
which makes the use of “economic weapons” more effective than
ordering that they show fewer dramas, Lam said.  The media regulator said in its statement yesterday that it
had designated January as a “special month” for enforcing the
new ban throughout the country.  Concerns about a erosion of morality in China may also be
contributing to the move to increase control of TV content, Lam
said. Premier  Wen Jiabao  in April blamed food safety incidents
in the nation including the sale of tainted baby formula and the
use of illegal food additives on a “severe” lack of integrity
and morals.  Last month, the People’s Daily, a newspaper controlled by
the Communist Party, published a commentary calling on the
nation to halt a decline in morals after surveillance camera
footage distributed over the Internet showed more than a dozen
people in southern China who ignored a 2-year-old girl after she
was struck by two vans. The girl later died of her injuries at a
local hospital.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net ;
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  