-- 
China’s Benchmark Stock Index Climbs on Fiscal Outlook, U.S. Retail Sales

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-11-28T08:17:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-28/china-s-stocks-rise-most-in-two-weeks-led-by-brokers-commodity-producers.html
China’s benchmark stock index  rose
from a one-month low on speculation the government will take
more fiscal measures to support economic growth, overshadowing
concern that the government will keep property curbs next year.  Sinohydro Group Ltd. led a rally among water-related stocks
after the  China  Securities Journal reported the central
government plans to invest 80 billion yuan ($12.5 billion)
annually for water-saving irrigation projects.  Citic Securities
Co.  climbed for the first time in four days after the  Shanghai
Stock Exchange  said it will widen the scope of securities
available for  margin trading  and short selling. China Vanke Co.
slid among developers after Vice Premier  Li Keqiang  said the
government should continue with real-estate restrictions.  “Economic policies will be relaxed though they will
probably be limited,” said Wu Kan, a  fund manager  at Dazhong
Insurance Co., which oversees $285 million. “The global
slowdown caused by  Europe ’s debt crisis and decelerating
earnings in the fourth quarter will put pressure on the
government to ease policies.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  gained 2.81 points, or 0.1
percent, to 2,383.03 at the close. Almost the same number of
stocks rose as those that fell. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  added 0.1
percent to 2,573.32. The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index , the
measure of the most-traded U.S.-listed Chinese companies,
retreated 0.4 percent in  New York  on Nov. 25.  The Shanghai Composite slid 1.5 percent last week, a third
week of declines, after data showed the country’s manufacturing
may contract this month by the most since March 2009. The index
is valued at 11.3 times estimated earnings, compared with a
four-year average of 17.3 times, according to weekly data
compiled by Bloomberg. The measure has fallen 15 percent this
year after the central bank raised rates three times and lifted
the reserve-requirement ratio to curb inflation.  Fiscal Support  Sinohydro, the nation’s biggest builder of dams, rose 1.6
percent to 4.60 yuan. China Gezhouba Group Co. added 1.9 percent
to 8.65 yuan.  Anhui Water Resources Development Co. (600502)  climbed 3.4
percent to 14.29 yuan.  The central government plans to invest at least 80 billion
yuan per year over five years to develop water-saving irrigation
projects, the China Securities Journal reported, citing an
unidentified person from the Ministry of Water Resources.  The nation will likely maintain “active” fiscal policies
next year, focusing on “structural”  tax deductions , the
journal said in a separate report, citing unidentified analysts.
China should pay more attention to solving contradictions
between the economy and society through fiscal policy, the
newspaper reported, citing Jia Kang, head of the Ministry of
Finance’s research institute for fiscal science.  China Economy  China is unlikely to loosen its monetary policies as the
economy is still growing at more than 9 percent while the
inflation rate is at 5.5 percent, according to China
International Capital Corp. The economy, which grew 10.4 percent
last year, may expand at a 9.2 percent pace this year, the
nation’s industry regulator said Nov. 24.  PetroChina Co., the nation’s biggest oil company, gained
0.7 percent to 9.72 yuan. Jiangxi Copper Co., China’s biggest
producer of the metal, gained 0.7 percent to 25.44 yuan. China
Shenhua Energy Co., the nation’s largest coal producer, jumped 1
percent to 25.81 yuan.  The  International Monetary Fund  is preparing a 600 billion
euro ($794 billion) loan for  Italy  in case the country’s debt
crisis worsens, La Stampa reported, without saying where it got
the information. An IMF spokesperson said in an e-mailed
statement today it’s not in talks with Italy for a loan program.  U.S. Retail Sales  U.S. retail sales increased 16 percent to $52.4 billion
during the Thanksgiving weekend, according to the  National
Retail Federation , citing a survey conducted by BIGresearch. The
average shopper spent $398.62, up from $365.34 a year earlier.  Europe and the U.S. make up about a total of 35 percent of
China’s exports, according to Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co.  Citic Securities, China’s biggest listed brokerage, rose
0.5 percent to 11.14 yuan. Haitong Securities Co. added 0.8
percent to 8.09 yuan.  China Everbright Securities Co. (601788) , a unit of
the nation’s largest state-owned investment group, climbed 1.1
percent to 11.58 yuan.  China will broaden securities eligible for margin trading
and short sales on Dec. 5 to include stocks in the Shanghai
Stock Exchange 180 Index and four open-ended exchange-traded
funds including the China 50 ETF, the Shanghai exchange said in
a statement on Nov. 26 after the market closed.  Vanke, the nation’s biggest listed brokerage, fell 0.4
percent to 7.07 yuan. China Merchants Property Development Co.
lost 0.3 percent to 16.38 yuan. Citichamp Dartong Co. slid 3.8
percent to 6.53 yuan.  Home Prices  Li said measures introduced to control the nation’s
property market are at a “critical stage” and that the
government should continue with the curbs, the official Xinhua
News Agency reported. Li is in line to replace Wen as premier
next year, according to Willy Wo-Lap Lam, an adjunct professor
of Chinese history at the Chinese University of  Hong Kong .  Li also called for increased efforts to construct and
“fairly distribute” affordable housing to low-income families,
according to the report. The vice premier made the remarks while
visiting the city of Langfang in  Hebei province  on Nov. 25,
during which he checked on the implementation of the
government’s affordable housing policies, Xinhua reported.  House prices  in China’s top tier cities are likely to fall
by 10 percent to 30 percent next year, exceeding losses in other
cities amid higher prices and lower affordability, Daiwa  Capital
Markets  said. Declines in the lesser 3 and 4 tier cities may
drop by 5 percent to 15 percent in 2012, Daiwa analysts led by
Danny Bao wrote in a report dated Nov. 25.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bloomberg News in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  