-- 
China Profit Growth Slow on Property Curbs

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-11-28T07:23:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-28/china-s-profit-growth-cools-as-property-curbs-threaten-slowdown-economy.html
Chinese corporate profit growth,
slowing on waning export demand from  Europe , may be further
undermined as a campaign to cool property prices reduces the
value of investments.  Industrial companies’ net income rose 12.5 percent in
October from a year earlier, less than half the 27 percent pace
from January to September, the statistics bureau  said  yesterday.  The slowdown adds to evidence that Europe’s deepening
financial crisis and a faltering recovery in the U.S. are
weighing on profits. More than 60 percent of Chinese companies
that sold bonds in the past six months invest in the real estate
market, where sales are weakening under government curbs that
Vice Premier  Li Keqiang  pledged on Nov. 25 to maintain.  “The slowdown of the economy will become more prominent in
the next two quarters,” said  Wang Tao , a Hong Kong-based
economist for UBS AG who has also worked for the  International
Monetary Fund . She said that industrial companies’ profit growth
may keep cooling and the government may enact “more obvious
policy loosening in the first quarter of next year.”  The government can support growth by ramping up state
housing construction, while moderating inflation may leave room
for monetary policy loosening.  China’s economy  can avoid a so-called hard landing with an
expansion of more than 8 percent next year, Wang said. The
economy grew 10.4 percent in 2010 and 9.1 percent in the third
quarter of this year.  Noyer on Crisis  In  Tokyo , Bank of France Governor  Christian Noyer  said the
crisis in Europe, China’s biggest export market, has worsened
“significantly” over the past few weeks and bond markets in
the euro area “are not functioning normally.” Moody’s
Investors Service said today that the “rapid escalation” in the
situation is threatening all the region’s sovereign ratings.  Asian stocks jumped on stronger U.S. retail sales and
speculation that the International Monetary Fund will aid  Italy ,
a topic Noyer declined to discuss. The MSCI  Asia  Pacific Index
rose 2 percent as of 4:11 p.m. in Tokyo, the first increase in
four days.  Elsewhere in Asia,  Thailand  reported a slump in industrial
output today, while the Philippine economy grew a less-than-
forecast 3.2 percent in the third quarter from a year earlier,
according to government data.  Germany , meanwhile, is due to release inflation figures. In
the U.S., a report from the Commerce Department may show fallout
from that nation’s housing bubble weighing on the world’s
biggest economy.  U.S.,  China   New homes may have sold at a 313,000 annual rate last month,
the same as the previous month, a Bloomberg News survey of
analysts shows. That would put the monthly average for the year
at 304,000, less than the 323,000 in 2010 that was the lowest
since data-keeping began in 1963.  In China, the government intensified property measures this
year with limits on mortgages and restrictions on home purchases
in about 40 cities. October housing transactions declined 25
percent from September and prices fell in 33 of 70 cities.  Seventy-four of 121 companies that filed bond prospectuses
since May with Chinabond, the nation’s clearinghouse, count one
of their main businesses as real estate, have property
subsidiaries or invest in the market. Engine maker Zongshen
Power Machinery Co. said its parent company is involved in
development. Kangmei Pharmaceutical Co., which makes medicine to
treat high  blood pressure , invests in real estate.  Behind on Payments  Most Chinese builders face payment delays from developers
as the pace of construction slows amid tighter credit and a
slowdown in home sales, Credit Suisse Group AG said in a report.
About 80 percent of construction companies said developers were
behind on payments, the brokerage said, citing a survey.  Most economists expect China’s government to loosen some
fiscal or monetary policies without cutting  interest rates  as
inflation remains elevated, a Bloomberg News survey showed this
month. Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis is sapping export demand
just as a crackdown on speculation damps home sales and
construction.Manufacturing may contract this month by the most 
since March 2009, according to a preliminary purchasing managers’ 
index. Rising costs may erode margins, with the official Xinhua 
News Agency reporting that the southern city of Shenzhen will 
boost the monthly minimum wage by 15 percent to 1,500 yuan 
($235) in January to attract workers.  Power Production  Industrial companies’ sales climbed 29.1 percent to 68.18
trillion yuan for the first 10 months of the year, yesterday’s
report showed. Profit declines were reported in industries such
as oil processing and power production.  Huaneng Power
International Inc. (600011)  previously reported a 79 percent slide in
third-quarter net income.  “If economic growth slows further, companies’ profit
outlook won’t be very optimistic,” Li Wei, an economist at
 Standard Chartered  Plc in  Shanghai , said before yesterday’s
release. “Price distortions caused by the government’s
administrative controls have affected the operations of power
makers and energy producers.”  China’s central bank last week fueled speculation that
monetary policy may be eased by letting  reserve requirements 
fall by half a percentage point for more than 20 rural credit
cooperatives.  China’s economic  growth  may slow to 9.2 percent this year
and moderate further in 2012, as companies are squeezed by
funding difficulties, labor costs, and raw-material prices,
Huang Libin, an official from the Ministry of Industry and
Information Technology, said Nov. 24.  Li at Standard Chartered said easing inflation may offer
“a good opportunity” for the government to correct price
distortions in the energy industries. “Calls for reforms are
getting stronger,” he said.  The industrial profits data cover companies with annual
sales from their main business of at least 20 million yuan in 39
industries including oil and gas exploration, transportation
equipment manufacturing, telecommunications and power generation.  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at 
 vruan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in  Hong Kong  at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  