-- 
Chipmakers Lose Billions as IPad Challenges Computers: Tech

-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n   a n d   J u n   Y a n g
-- 
2011-11-29T09:06:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-28/chipmakers-lose-billions-as-ipad-challenges-computers-tech.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad is the bane of
computer-memory makers, worsening the industry’s losses as
consumers choose the hand-held device that uses about 75 percent
fewer of the chips than a typical laptop.  Elpida Memory Inc. (6665) , Hynix Semiconductor Inc. and other
makers of dynamic random-access memory, the most common chip in
computers, lost a combined $14 billion in the past three years,
according to Bloomberg calculations. That comes after the $37
billion that researcher DRAMeXchange estimates they spent
building factories in a bet on continued growth in the industry.  DRAM  prices  plunged to a record low this month after PC
shipments missed analyst forecasts and iPad sales reached a
record 11.1 million. As the faltering global economy and
 Thailand  floods curb PC production, some DRAM manufacturers may
not have enough money to mimic  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) ’s
profitable diversification into specialty chips for smartphones,
tablet devices and servers.  “DRAM makers invested too much, and they bet heavily that
growth of the computer industry would always continue,” said
Chen Liway, an industry analyst at Polaris Securities Co. in
Taipei. “That would have been OK if the iPad had never come
along.”  Apple, Microsoft  PC shipments were hit last quarter by the popularity of
tablets like the iPad, researchers Gartner Inc. and IDC said
last month. PC shipments climbed 3.2 percent to 92 million
units, compared with an earlier projection for 5.1 percent
growth,  Stamford , Connecticut-based Gartner  said . IPad sales in
the same period exceeded computer shipments by  Dell Inc. (DELL) , the
world’s No. 3 seller.  Apple has sold about 40 million iPads since the product’s
debut last year, generating $25.3 billion in revenue. Apple may
sell a record 20 million iPads globally during the holiday
quarter, according to  Forrester Research Inc. (FORR)  in Cambridge,
 Massachusetts .  Elpida and other DRAM makers bet that new versions of
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows and a stable global economy would
drive demand for their chips. Instead, Windows sales fell 8
percent in the three months ending Dec. 31, 2008, missing
Microsoft’s forecast for 10 percent growth; the global financial
crisis hit the following year; and Apple released the iPad in
April 2010.  Lowest Prices  Manufacturers lost money on the DRAM business in three of
the past four years, according to Bloomberg data. DRAM prices
fell 32 percent in the third quarter, the most in almost three
years, according to Bloomberg Industries data.  “Prices will keep falling,” said Alvin Lim, an associate
director at  Fitch Ratings  in  Seoul . “I don’t think there will
ever be a meaningful recovery.”  DRAM is the most common chip used in computers and speeds
up processing by temporarily storing data. Slowing growth in the
PC industry, which buys 65 percent of all DRAM output according
to Bloomberg Industries, and less memory requirements for newer
versions of Windows will prompt a record slowdown in demand,
Englewood, Colorado-based IHS Inc.’s  iSuppli  said in August.  Growth in DRAM per PC will drop to 35 percent after next
year following 48 percent average growth for the past 25 years,
iSuppli said.  Prices of benchmark DDR3 2-gigabit DRAM chips fell 61
percent this year to a record-low 71 cents on Nov. 21, according
to Taipei-based TrendForce Corp.’s DRAMeXchange, the researcher
and largest spot market for the chips.  ‘Rice Ball’  Elpida ,  Japan ’s largest memory-chip maker, will lose money
this year and next, according to the average of 18 analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Manufacturers like Elpida,
which spent $3.8 billion on factories in the past four years,
must keep churning out chips to generate enough cash to cover
debt payments, pushing prices down even further.  “Elpida is using the state-of-the-art production
technology, yet the finished products are sold for half the
price of a rice ball,” Yukio Sakamoto, chief executive officer
of the Tokyo-based company, told investors last month.  Elpida’s shares fell 1 percent to 390 yen at the close of
trading in  Tokyo  today, taking losses for the year to 59
percent. The benchmark  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  added 2.3 percent, stemming
losses to 17 percent for the year.  PC unit sales may decline 8 percent next year because of
the recent floods in Thailand, where at least 40 percent of the
world’s computer disk drives are made,  Kevin Chang , a technology
analyst with Fitch Ratings Ltd. in Taipei, said in a Nov. 23
statement. The original projection was for 5 percent growth.  “Lower DRAM orders will have a negative impact on memory-
chip prices,” Chang said.  Flash Demand  Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung, the world’s biggest
semiconductor maker, will post 2.3 trillion won ($1.98 billion)
profit from DRAM this year, according to Shinhan Investment
Corp. in Seoul. That’s because Samsung sells twice as many
specialty DRAM chips, where margins are higher, as commoditized
chips used in PCs, Shinhan said in an Oct. 25 report.  The company also supplies up to 64 gigabytes of NAND flash
memory for every iPad, compared with about half a gigabyte of
DRAM. Demand for NAND flash -- which saves photos, videos and
software permanently -- will climb 49 percent in the five years
to 2015 while the DRAM market will be little changed, according
to iSuppli.  “The specialty chip market may look like sacred ground to
smaller companies because Samsung is so dominant,” said Park Hyun, a Seoul-based analyst at Tong Yang Securities Inc. “Over
time, they will increasingly try to switch to specialty
products.”  Jason Kim, a Seoul-based spokesman for Samsung, declined to
comment when contacted by phone on the company’s plans for its
chip business.  Hynix (000660) , Winbond  Icheon, South Korea-based Hynix, the second-largest DRAM
supplier, and Boise, Idaho-based  Micron Technology Inc. (MU) , the
fourth-largest, also are increasing supply of NAND flash,
helping both companies return to profitability last year after
losses the two previous years.  “We’re quite positive about flash,” Fitch’s Lim said.
“If smaller companies had both DRAM and flash, they could have
offset the weakness in one market.”  Winbond Electronics Corp., (2344)  a Taiwanese memory maker that
posted losses in seven of 10 years through 2009, exited the
computer DRAM business last year in favor of specialty DRAM for
TVs and mobile phones. That helped the company post its largest
annual profit since 2000.  Elpida is following a similar path, spending the last two
years developing versions of DRAM used in smartphones that it
expects to ship to clients next quarter, Sakamoto told investors
last month.  “Some are making profits moving into specialty DRAM,”
Chen said. “For others, it may be too late as they don’t have
the money or the technology to make the switch.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net ;
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Tighe  at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net . 