-- 
Chow Tai Fook Seeks $2.8 Billion in Hong Kong Initial Offering, Terms Say

-- B y   F o x   H u   a n d   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 
2011-11-28T09:52:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-28/chow-tai-fook-seeks-2-8b-in-hong-kong-ipo.html
Chow Tai Fook Jewellery Group Ltd.
may raise as much as HK$22 billion ($2.8 billion) in what could
be Hong Kong’s biggest initial public offering this year as
luxury-goods companies tap growing affluence in  China .  The jewelry chain, whose revenue is higher than rival
 Tiffany & Co. (TIF) ’s, is offering 1.05 billion new shares at HK$15 to
HK$21 each, according to a term sheet sent to investors. Chow
Tai Fook plans to start trading Dec. 15, according to the terms.  The offering by the Hong Kong-based jeweler with more than
1,400 outlets in China will test investors’ appetite after  Prada
SpA , which raised $2.5 billion in Hong Kong’s biggest IPO this
year, has declined since its June debut. Sales of luxury items
in China will more than double to about 180 billion yuan ($28
billion) in 2015 from last year, McKinsey & Co. estimates.  “At such a pricing range, it is more expensive than its
peers, but  Chow Tai Fook  is much bigger,” said Patrick Yiu,
managing director at Cash Asset Management. “The  price range 
still looks reasonable.”  Chow Tai Fook, controlled by real-estate billionaire  Cheng Yu-tung , forecasts net income of more than HK$6.3 billion in the
year ending March 31, 2012, according to a  statement  from the
company to  Hong Kong ’s stock exchange today. Earnings per share
on a pro forma basis will be at least 63 Hong Kong cents, it
said.  Fortune, Prosperity  Founded in 1929 in the southern Chinese city of  Guangzhou ,
the company was named after founder Chow Chi Yuen and “Tai
Fook” means fortune, prosperity and luck in Chinese.  Retail sales in China have  grown  an average of 17 percent
in the first ten months of this year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. In Hong Kong, Chinese visitors splurging on high-
end shoes, watches and jewelry have driven monthly retail  sales 
to record highs.  Graff Diamonds Ltd., the jewelry retailer whose founder
twice set records buying gems at auction, is preparing to raise
$1 billion in a Hong Kong IPO next year, according to a person
familiar with the matter.  Baoxin Auto Group Ltd., a dealer of BMW and Jaguar cars in
China, seeks as much as $526 million in a Hong Kong share sale,
according to a term sheet. The company, based in  Shanghai , plans
to start trading on Dec. 14, according to the terms.  Use of Proceeds  The Chow Tai Fook shares being offered will account for
10.5 percent of the company after the sale, according to the
term sheet. The company’s stockholders have the option to sell
210 million shares under an upsize option, as well as the
equivalent of 15 percent of the final deal size under an
overallotment option, according to the document.  Half of the funds raised by the company will be used on raw
materials and inventory, with 36.5 percent for repayment of
loans and 5 percent on buying properties and renovating stores,
according to the term sheet. The remainder will be used to buy
production as well as research and development equipment, to
build an office building in Shenzhen, and on working capital.  The IPO will be the biggest in Hong Kong this year,
exceeding Prada’s if priced at the top of the range.  Companies have raised more than $15 billion from initial
public offerings so far this year, compared with $46.3 billion
for the same period last year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Prada  rose 6.3 percent, the most since Oct. 27, to HK$34.40
at the close of trading in Hong Kong. The stock has  dropped  13
percent from the offer price since it started trading in June.  Annual Sales  Chow Tai Fook posted revenue of HK$35 billion in the 12
months ended March, it said in a filing. Tiffany had annual
sales of $3.09 billion.  The Hong Kong-based jeweler has 12.6 percent of China’s
jewelry market, with a 20 percent share in Hong Kong and Macau,
the company said in its filing, citing a Frost and Sullivan
report. It sources rough diamonds from companies such as  Rio
Tinto  and Diamond Trading Co., the distribution arm of  De Beers .  Retail sales in China are predicted to more than double to
40.5 trillion yuan ($6.36 trillion) in 2015, up from 15.4
trillion yuan in 2010, according to a KPMG report released in
April.  Deutsche Bank AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc., HSBC Holdings
Plc and JPMorgan Chase & Co. are managing the IPO for Chow Tai
Fook as global coordinators.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net ;
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  