-- 
Congo Vote Count Begins After Election Day Marred by Unrest

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 
2011-11-29T08:17:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-28/congo-vote-count-begins-after-election-day-marred-by-unrest-1-.html
The  Democratic Republic  of Congo’s
electoral commission began counting votes in parts of the
country as it allowed balloting to continue in areas where there
were delays amid unrest and late deliveries of voting materials.  At least seven people died yesterday in clashes in
Lubumbashi, the capital of Katanga province, according to
Congo’s African Association for the Defense of Human Rights.
Poll workers were accosted and an unspecified number of voting
stations were destroyed, according to Kinshasa-based Radio
Okapi, the United Nations-backed broadcaster.  While the presidential and parliamentary vote in general
was “satisfactory,” the commission “deplores the cases of
incidents and violence recorded in certain voting centers and in
certain cities and places within the republic,” Matthieu Pita,
rapporteur for the commission, told reporters in Kinshasa.  Incumbent President  Joseph Kabila  is facing 10 challengers
in the country’s second election since Congo in 2003 emerged
from nearly a decade of war that engulfed the country and
surrounding nations. At least 3.1 million people died between
1998 and 2007 as a result of conflict, making it the deadliest
since World War II, according to the New York-based
International Rescue Committee.  Continuing Violence  The United Nations and Congolese rights groups say violence
is likely to continue after yesterday’s vote. Prolonged conflict
may destabilize an economy that attracted $2.9 billion of
foreign  investment  last year, a more than 10-fold increase since
2006, and fostered a five-fold increase in copper production to
500,000 metric tons over the same period, according to  United
Nations  and central bank data.  The European Union observer mission, which has more than
140 observers in the country, is investigating reports of
violence and will comment on their findings on Nov. 30, Mariya
Nedelcheva, the head of the team, said in an interview at a
polling station in Kinshasa.  After Nedelcheva finished speaking at the balloting site,
crowds of supporters of Etienne Tshisekedi, the main opposition
leader, assaulted an election worker they accused of stuffing
ballot boxes. Dozens of people punched and kicked the poll
worker until police intervened. The crowd of people waved piles
of ballots, which they accused the official of carrying, and
which were all marked for another candidate.  Voter Intimidation  Congolese soldiers in Masisi territory in eastern Congo’s
North Kivu province stopped people from voting, stole electoral
cards and accompanied voters into voting booths, according to
Radio Okapi. Masisi was a stronghold of former rebels associated
with Bosco Ntaganda, who is wanted by the  International Criminal
Court  for  war crimes . His political party is supporting Kabila
in the election.  In the two central Kasai provinces, voters burned downed
polling stations and in northwestern Equateur, police fired tear
gas into one voting station, Radio Okapi said.  Baya Kara, the head of the Atlanta-based Carter Center
mission in Congo, which trained more than 6,000 election
observers, declined to comment on the vote until Nov. 30.
Madnodje Mounoubai the spokesman for the UN mission in Congo
wouldn’t comment when reached by phone.  Kabila is seeking another five-year term on the basis of
his recent economic record. Since late 2009, the country has
rebounded from a plunge in commodity prices caused by the global
economic crisis that decimated mining operations and spawned
annual inflation of 50 percent. Gross domestic product grew 7.2
percent last year, compared with 2.8 percent in 2009, according
to the  International Monetary Fund , while inflation is currently
at 17.5 percent, according to the Central Bank of Congo.  Living Standards   That improved economic performance hasn’t translated into
improved living standards for most Congolese. The country this
year ranked last out of 187 nations in the United Nations
Development Programme’s  Human Development Index , which measures
health and education indicators and income. Congo is also one of
the most difficult places in the world to do business, according
to the  World Bank , which placed Congo 178th out of 183 countries
surveyed last year.  Corruption has stymied the growth of small and medium-sized
businesses, according to the World Bank. It has also helped keep
more than 90 percent of its working citizens out of the formal
job market, the government says.  Tshisekedi has called for new laws against corruption,
improvements in agriculture and a jobs program. Tshisekedi has
also pledged to improve the country’s image for investors, which
has deteriorated after the government’s three-year review of
mining contracts and the sale over the past two years of mining
and oil concessions at below-market rates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa via Nairobi at   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 