-- 
Congress Urged to Keep Commuter and Retail Tax Breaks

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-11-29T17:10:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-28/congress-pressed-to-preserve-commuter-and-retail-tax-breaks.html
(Corrects spelling of Neuburger in 10th, 13th paragraphs in
story that moved yesterday.)  Train commuters, retailers that hire
food-stamp recipients and renewable-energy companies are
concerned about what will happen if the tax breaks they rely
upon lapse as scheduled Dec. 31.  The miscellaneous tax benefits won’t receive top billing
next month as Congress debates whether to extend a payroll tax
cut and expanded federal  unemployment benefits  that also are set
to run out at the end of the year. That’s in part because breaks
such as the research and development credit have a history of
retroactive extension, with companies reconciling the benefits
on their tax returns.  By contrast, breaks such as the Work Opportunity Tax Credit
for companies that hire food-stamp recipients and similar groups
of disadvantaged workers may have an immediate effect if they
expire. Companies including  Darden Restaurants Inc. (DRI) ,  Dunkin’
Brands Group Inc. , and  Yum! Brands Inc . have been lobbying
Congress to continue the credit.  “It’s dangerous, certainly, to let this expire,” said
Dave Koenig, vice president for tax and profitability at the
National Restaurant Association in Washington. “We’re hopeful.
Obviously, time is short.”  Koenig said restaurant companies likely would recruit fewer
workers in the targeted groups if they’re uncertain whether they
will be able to continue to receive tax credits of as much as
$9,000 per worker. On Nov. 21, President  Barack Obama  signed a
law providing tax breaks for hiring unemployed veterans that is
based on the work opportunity credit. The veterans’ portion
won’t expire until the end of 2012.  Miscellaneous Tax Breaks  The work opportunity credit is among dozens of expiring tax
breaks that benefit companies as varied as  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  and
 Whirlpool Corp. (WHR)  The miscellaneous breaks were last extended in
December 2010 as part of a broader law that continued expiring
individual income-tax cuts. By that point, most of the breaks
had been lapsed since the end of 2009.  Lawmakers, consumed for the past few months by the deficit-
reduction supercommittee, have barely focused on the expiring
tax breaks. They are likely to disagree over their importance
and on whether Congress should find offsetting spending cuts or
tax increases to prevent extensions from adding to the  budget
deficit .  Companies have become accustomed to periodic expiration of
some of the breaks. By the time they file their returns,
retroactive extensions allow them to claim benefits. The lapse
of tax breaks would have the biggest effect on the provisions
that affect paychecks or that alter market incentives.  Transit Commuter Benefit  For example, without congressional action, commuters who
spend more than $125 a month on public transit would no longer
be able to sidestep income taxes on more than that amount
starting Jan. 1. This year, workers can set aside as much as
$230 for their commute before taxes.  “Many, many people across the country are going to see a
very sizable increase in the cost of their commute, which is a
tax increase,” said Dan Neuburger, CEO of Transitcenter Inc., a
nonprofit provider of transit benefits to companies.  Already, he said, because decisions must be made about
monthly deductions in advance, it’s likely already too late for
workers to seek more than $125 in a pre-tax benefit for January.  Companies benefit from the transit break because they don’t
have to pay their share of payroll taxes on the amounts set
aside, and transit agencies have received a boost in riders.  “If they push this decision into next year, it’s going to
result in an even larger tax increase to millions of people,”
Neuburger said.  Lapsing Dec. 31  Lawmakers have shown little interest in extending some of
the breaks that are slated to expire Dec. 31, including the 45-
cent a gallon tax credit for ethanol refining and the 100
percent expensing for domestic investment, which will drop to 50
percent bonus depreciation Jan. 1.  The New Markets Tax Credit, which provides financing for
development in low-income communities, also expires Dec. 31.
Advocates for the program say a lapse could cause banks that
provide the equity financing for the projects to show less
interest in continuing that effort.  “A lot of projects that were depending on the equity will
just plain disappear, because no one will know when it comes
back,” said Bob Davenport, president of the National
Development Council, a New York-based nonprofit group that helps
finance projects funded with the credit.  A lapse of the credit will spur the price of the tax
credits to drop in a nervous market, said Annie Donovan, chief
operating officer at NCB Capital Impact, a nonprofit development
company based in Arlington, Virginia. She is president of the
board of the New Markets Tax Credit Coalition.  1603 Program  Also scheduled to expire at the end of the year is a
program enacted in the 2009 stimulus law that allows renewable-
energy companies to claim grants instead of tax credits. The
Dec. 31 expiration of the program, known by its legal name of
1603, is causing companies to rush to start construction before
January so they can apply for the grants, said Matt Haskins, who
leads the U.S. renewable energy tax practice at
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP in  Washington .  “The market is already working under the assumption that
1603 will expire and that no extension is imminent,” he said.  If the grant program disappears, underlying tax credits for
renewable energy will remain. They are less useful, Haskins
said, because a company involved in the transaction must have
the ability to absorb them.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  