-- 
Crude Oil Drops From One-Week High on Forecast U.S. Stockpiles Increased

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-11-29T08:08:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-28/crude-oil-futures-open-0-5-lower-at-97-75-a-barrel-in-new-york-trading.html
Oil dropped from the highest close
in more than a week before a report forecast to show that crude
and gasoline stockpiles increased in the U.S.  Futures slipped as much as 1 percent, the first decline in
three days, after failing to settle above $100 a barrel
yesterday. A U.S. Energy Department report tomorrow will
probably show  oil inventories  rose for the first time in a
month, while gasoline supplies climbed for a third week,
according to a Bloomberg News survey.  “We’ve had more positioning in oil recently with the
speculators coming in on the long side,” said  Michael McCarthy ,
a chief market strategist at CMC Markets Asia Pacific Pty. in
Sydney who sees technical resistance for New York crude at $102.
“When we get moves as we’ve seen overnight, the short-term
interest is simply taking profit.”  Futures for January delivery fell as much as 98 cents to
$97.23 a barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile
and were at $97.45 at 4:04 p.m. Singapore time. The contract
rallied as much as 4.1 percent to $100.74 yesterday on signs of
economic recovery in the U.S. and possible supply disruptions in
the  Middle East , before closing at $98.21, the highest since
Nov. 17. Prices are up 14 percent from a year ago.  Brent oil for January settlement was at $108.72 a barrel,
down 28 cents, on the London-based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange.
The European benchmark contract’s premium to West Texas
Intermediate was at $11.27, compared with $10.79 yesterday and a
record $27.88 on Oct. 14.  Technical Resistance  West Texas Intermediate crude will struggle to remain above
$100 a barrel, according to a Commerzbank AG report yesterday.
Futures are unlikely to advance much further after an “emphatic
rejection” from $103.39, the intraday high on May 31, said
London-based technical analyst  Karen Jones , who earlier this
month correctly forecast that Brent oil would fall below $110.
WTI rose as high as $103.37 on Nov. 17 before ending the day
below $99 a barrel.  U.S. crude inventories probably climbed 1 million barrels
last week, according to the median of seven analyst estimates in
a Bloomberg News survey. Gasoline supplies may have increased
1.1 million barrels, the  survey  showed. The Energy Department is
scheduled to release its report tomorrow in  Washington .  The  American Petroleum Institute  will release its inventory
report today. The API collects stockpile information on a
voluntary basis from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and
pipelines. The government requires that reports be filed with
the Energy Department for its weekly survey.  OPEC Quotas  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries may keep
oil production quotas at current levels when it meets next
month, Ecuador’s Non-Renewable Natural Resources Minister Wilson Pastor said yesterday. The group is scheduled to meet in Vienna
for an annual conference on Dec. 14.  Venezuela  is seeking to maintain current OPEC quotas, Oil
Minister Rafael Ramirez said yesterday. Member countries
exceeding the limit should lower their output, he said. The
group’s 12 members are Algeria, Angola, Ecuador,  Iran , Iraq,
Kuwait,  Libya ,  Nigeria , Qatar,  Saudi Arabia , the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela.  Money managers included hedge-funds reduced bullish bets on
oil for the week ended Nov. 22, according to data released
yesterday by ICE Futures Europe and the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission.  Managers cut bullish bets on  Brent crude  by 5,356 contracts
in the week ended Nov. 22, London-based ICE said yesterday in
its weekly Commitment of Traders report. Net-long bets on WTI
fell by 26,387, or 12 percent, to 189,688, CFTC data showed. It
was the largest drop since the week ended Aug. 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  