-- 
Czechs Should Cut Rates if Crisis Impact Worsens, OECD Says

-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 
2011-11-28T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-28/czechs-should-cut-rates-if-crisis-impact-worsens-oecd-says.html
Czech policy makers should cut
 interest rates  further if the euro-area’s sovereign debt crisis
hurts the nation’s economic growth more than expected, the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said.  The Czech economic outlook has worsened as the crisis in
the euro area damps demand in the country’s main market for
exports.  Gross domestic product  will rise 2.1 percent this year
and slow to 1.6 percent in 2012, according to OECD forecasts
published today. Both growth estimates are higher than the
central bank’s.  “As the economy has no significant internal imbalances,
major risks to the projection come from further unfavorable
developments in the external environment and are strongly tilted
to the downside,” the OECD said. “If downside risks for the
economic outlook materialize, monetary policy should be eased
further.”  The Prague-based Czech central bank has left the  main rate 
at a record-low 0.75 percent since May 2010 as inflation
remained near its 2 percent target. Earlier this year the bank
debated when to raise rates, before changing on Nov. 3 its
baseline forecast to a decline in borrowing costs by year-end.
Governor Miroslav Singer said the next rate move may be in any
direction.  The Ceska Narodni Banka said in its latest outlook,
released Nov. 3, that it sees the inflation rate rising to 2.8
percent in the fourth quarter of next year mainly because of an
increase in the lower bracket of the value-added tax from
January. Monetary-policy inflation will move “lightly under the
inflation target” of 2 percent through the first quarter of
2013, the forecast said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  