-- 
Dollar Drops on Optimism Euro Nearing Crisis Fix; Swedish Krona Advances

-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-11-29T12:55:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-28/dollar-holds-drop-versus-euro-on-prospects-stocks-to-extend-rally-in-asia.html
The dollar weakened against all 16
of its major counterparts as  Italy  sold bonds and on speculation
euro-area policy makers are nearing agreements on ways to
counter the region’s sovereign debt turmoil.  The Dollar Index dropped for a second day amid reduced
demand for the safest assets before reports that economists said
will show U.S. home prices fell at a slower pace and  consumer
confidence  rose. Sweden’s krona rallied after gross domestic
product  expanded  more than analysts estimated. The euro rose for
a second day versus the dollar before euro-area finance
ministers meet to seek a resolution to the region’s debt crisis.  Italy “got the stuff away and that alone is good news,”
said  Adam Cole , global head of foreign-exchange strategy at RBC
Europe Ltd. in London. “It’s turning into a general dollar-
weakness, risk-on move.”  The dollar slipped 0.2 percent to $1.3343 per euro at 7:52
a.m. New York time, after dropping 0.6 percent yesterday. It
weakened 0.3 percent to 77.77 yen.  Japan ’s currency was little
changed at 103.77 per euro.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index of shares rose 0.5 percent and
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures added 0.7 percent. The yield
on 10-year U.S. Treasuries climbed two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 1.99 percent.  Italy raised 7.5 billion euros at today’s auction, just
short of the top range of 8 billion euros for the sale. It
agreed to pay a yield of 7.89 percent on three-year notes, up
from 4.93 percent at a sale of similar-maturity debt last month,
after the intensification of the debt crisis pushed the nation’s
borrowing costs higher.  Finance Ministers Meet  Finance ministers from the 17-member monetary union are
scheduled to meet in Brussels today to debate the details on how
the European Financial Stability Facility will boost its impact
by insuring sovereign debt with guarantees.  Futures traders increased bets the euro would weaken
against the dollar last week, figures from the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission showed. The difference in the number of
wagers by  hedge funds  and other speculators on a decline in the
euro versus the dollar compared with those on a gain was 85,068
on Nov. 22, the most since June 2010. The so-called net shorts
were 76,147 a week earlier.  The euro pared its advance after the  European Central Bank 
failed to fully offset the extra liquidity created by its bond
purchase program and American Airlines parent AMR Corp. filed
for bankruptcy.  Reducing Shorts  “Investors may be reducing their shorts, and that’s
probably enough to lead to a rally in the euro and other risky
currencies,” said Guillermo Felices, head of European foreign-
exchange research at Barclays Plc in London. “Markets are
expecting something to come out of these meetings.” A short
position is a bet an asset will decline.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, which it uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, fell 0.4 percent to 78.878.  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 cities
dropped 3 percent in September from the same month in 2010 after
decreasing 3.8 percent in the year ended August, according to
the median forecast of 32 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
The Conference Board’s confidence gauge climbed to 44 this month
from 39.8 in October, separate figures may show.  Swedish Growth  The krona strengthened after data showed  Sweden ’s gross
domestic product grew an annual 4.6 percent in the third
quarter, exceeding analyst estimates for a 3.4 percent
expansion.  The Swedish currency appreciated 0.7 percent to 9.2196 per
euro. Against the dollar, it climbed 0.9 percent to 6.9065.  South Korea ’s won strengthened for a second day after the
 Bank of Korea  said the current-account surplus expanded to $4.23
billion last month from $2.83 billion in September.  “There are several favorable factors for the currency
market today: the global stock-market gains and the current-
account surplus,” said Ha Jun Woo, a currency dealer at Daegu
Bank in  Seoul . “Many investors who were betting on a strong
dollar may change positions today, which will support the won.”  The won rose 0.8 percent to 1,145.15 per dollar, after
gaining 0.9 percent yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Dobson in  London  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  