-- 
Egypt Election Polls Start to Close as Voter Turnout Exceeds Predictions

-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-11-29T17:51:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-28/egypt-parliamentary-elections-enter-second-day-as-turnout-beats-forecasts.html
Egypt  began shutting polling
stations as the initial phase of parliamentary voting drew to a
close in the first election since the uprising that toppled
 Hosni Mubarak .  Polls closed at 7 p.m. local time except at stations where
voters who arrived before that time haven’t yet cast ballots,
state television said. Lines were shorter today, after voters
rushed to take part yesterday, forcing the election commission
to extend voting hours. Preliminary results may be announced
tomorrow.  The head of the commission, Abdel Moez Ibrahim, and Ghada Shahbender, a member of the Board of the Egyptian Organization
for Human Rights, both said the turnout exceeded expectations.
The  benchmark stock index (EGX30)  surged the most in almost two years as
investors welcomed the largely peaceful vote.  The run-up to the three-stage poll, which ends in January,
was overshadowed by clashes in the week before voting that left
43 people dead. Protesters accuse the ruling generals of
stifling freedoms while failing to restore security or revive an
economy growing at the slowest pace in more than a decade.
Thousands have gathered in Cairo’s  Tahrir Square  demanding that
the generals step down. The army says it won’t cede power before
presidential elections due by the end of June.  ‘Major First Step’  The enthusiasm for voting suggests a disconnect between the
protesters and most Egyptians, said  David Hartwell , an analyst
at London-based forecaster IHS Global Insight. Many, “although
unhappy with the way the military have so far handled the
transition, see the elections as a major first step toward the
political reconstitution of the country.”  Shahbender said the protesters had contributed and “it’s
thanks to the Tahrir movement that people have regained
confidence in themselves and their power.”  Such differences were on display in central Cairo today,
where Sayed Saeed was part of a small group of protesters camped
outside the Cabinet building demanding that the military step
down. “We have been fooled,” he said. “There are no jobs. We
have to stay in line for hours to get a loaf of bread, the
police are still mistreating us, corruption is still there. What
has our revolution accomplished?”  He was chided by a passerby, 62-year-old Adel Mohammed
Ezzat, a street bookseller who said he had just voted for the
secular Wafd party. “The country’s problems have piled up over
the years,” he told Saeed. “We have to have patience. If you
are asking for reform, you shouldn’t disrupt life and block
roads. It takes me forever to go to work. Protests and sit-ins
are not the only way to bring about change.”  Stocks Surge  A scuffle broke out today in Tahrir between activists and
street vendors, though no one was seriously hurt, said Yamen
Hamza, a protester who was in the square at the time.  The EGX 30  stock index  jumped 5.5 percent as the high
turnout and absence of violence boosted expectations that the
vote will help ease tensions and smooth the transition to
democratic rule. The exchange was closed yesterday.  The unrest in Egypt has hurt the economy, as tourists have
shunned the country and industrial production has been hit by
strikes. Gross domestic product grew 1.8 percent in the fiscal
year through June, the slowest in at least a decade.  Even after today’s gain, the EGX 30 is down 44 percent this
year. Egypt’s credit rating was cut one level to B+, four steps
below investment grade, at  Standard & Poor’s  on Nov. 24. The
yield on dollar bonds due April 2020 climbed 82 basis points
last week to 6.97 percent, the highest since January.  Vote In Stages  Voting for the lower house of parliament in the Arab
world’s most populous country will take place in stages,
corresponding to three sets of governorates. The first stage
concludes today. Final results are due by Jan. 13. There was no
serious violence, though a row among voters at one polling
station left a supervising judge with an injured nose, election
board chief Ibrahim said.  Some results from ballots cast outside the country have
arrived in Cairo, indicating that as many as 70 percent of
registered expatriates cast ballots, the Cabinet said in an e-
mailed statement.  The Freedom and Justice Party, set up by Egypt’s once-
banned Muslim Brotherhood, is expected to emerge as one of the
largest blocs in the parliament.  The Brotherhood has stayed away from most recent protests
to focus on canvassing. Founded in 1928, the group’s
organizational skills, support networks and name-recognition may
help give it an edge over the secular youth who were at the
forefront of the leaderless anti-Mubarak revolt.  Islamist groups have already won elections in Morocco and
 Tunisia , where the region’s wave of uprisings began a year ago.  ‘Time For Justice’  At a polling station in the Bab el-Sharia neighborhood of
Cairo, Kamel El Sayed, a retired soldier, said he planned to
vote for the Brotherhood’s party. “It’s time we had justice,”
he said. “We were all oppressed under the former regime. The
most important thing is for security to be restored.”  Billionaire Naguib Sawiris, a member of Egypt’s Coptic
Christian minority and co-founder of the secular Free Egyptians
Party, warned last night that “the most dangerous thing for
Egypt is the issue of religious polarization, the attempt to use
religion in elections, be it from the Muslim Brotherhood or from
the Church.”  Sawiris, speaking in an interview on Al Arabiya television,
also said that the high turnout showed the engagement of the so-
called “couch party” -- Egyptians who haven’t played an active
role in this year’s protests -- in the election. “Most of them
are not for a religious state,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 