-- 
Eksportfinans Halts Commercial Paper Lending Amid Resolution

-- B y   M e e r a   B h a t i a
-- 
2011-11-28T07:14:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-28/eksportfinans-halts-commercial-paper-lending-amid-resolution-1-.html
Eksportfinans ASA   of  Norway , which
was downgraded to junk this month by Moody’s Investors Service,
will stop selling commercial paper after 2011 and is ceasing
issuance of subordinated debt as it is wound down.  “There will be no issuance of new capital contribution
securities or subordinated debt,” Oslo-based Eksportfinans said
yesterday in a presentation. “Existing securities and debt will
be kept to contractual maturity. There will be no new commercial
paper borrowings issued after 2011.”  Eksportfinans, which was set up to help foreign investors
buy Norwegian goods and services, was cut seven steps to Ba1 on
Nov. 22 by Moody’s after the state said it will wind down the
company. The government didn’t give the lender permission to
waive European capital requirements that limit lending
concentrations, leaving Eksportfinans in breach of regulatory
standards. Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg has instead created a
direct lending facility that will be operated by Eksportfinans
until July.  The lender issued forecasted financial data through 2017 to
“substantiate Eksportfinans’ previous statements that it
considers itself to be well capitalized, has a good liquidity
situation and that it has every intention to honor all of its
obligations once they come due,” according to yesterday’s
statement. “These previous statements still remain valid.”  EMTN Default?  Standard & Poor’s  also last week cut Eksportfinans five
levels to BBB+ and placed the rating on negative credit watch as
it determines whether the lender’s winding down and withdrawal
of government support constitute a default under the terms of
its euro medium-term note program.  DNB ASA (DNBNOR)  owns 40 percent of the lender, while 15 percent is
owned by the Norwegian government.  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , the largest
Nordic lender, holds 23.21 percent, and  Danske Bank A/S , based
in Copenhagen, owns 8.09 percent.  Eksportfinans will have 41 billion kroner in bond debt by
2017, according to forecasts published yesterday. That compares
with 167 billion kroner this year, the lender said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Meera Bhatia at 
 mbhatia2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  