-- 
Texas School Finance Fix Eludes Perry as Students Don’t Get Art Classes

-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 
2011-11-28T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-28/texas-school-finance-fix-eludes-perry-as-students-don-t-get-art-classes.html
Students at elementary schools in
 Amarillo ,  Texas , don’t get drawing lessons as a five-year-old
finance plan from Republicans led by Governor Rick Perry hasn’t
delivered funding needed to avoid cuts and improve education.  “We’d love to offer art or foreign languages,” said Rod Schroder, Amarillo’s superintendent. “But we have never had the
revenue to put in those programs.”  Perry, a contender for the 2012 Republican presidential
nomination, and legislative leaders in Austin have blamed this
year’s public-education funding shortfall on a weaker economy
and flaws in a 2006 tax overhaul that hasn’t met projections for
revenue. In the two-year budget that began in September, aid to
local schools fell short by more than $5 billion, a situation
that business leaders have said threatens the state’s economy.  “Texas needs a structurally sound school-finance system
that isn’t continually underfunded,” Harvin Moore, a board
member of the Houston Independent School District, said in a
telephone interview. The fourth-biggest U.S. city by population
has the state’s largest system with about 200,000 students.  “Numerous legislators told me and others that they would
rather leave the system broken and wait for districts to sue,”
letting a judge make the hard choices involved, Moore said. The
two-year budget passed in May eliminated a deficit estimated to
be at least $15 billion and provides $53.8 billion for schools.  A Budget Priority  Perry has said little on the issue this year, while in his
presidential campaign he has called for the elimination of the
U.S. Education Department, returning the funding it distributes
to the states. His budget proposal, submitted to lawmakers in
February, made few references to school finances. Its
introduction calls public education a priority and says budget
writers had to sort needs from wants in completing their plan.  In terms of spending per student, Texas ranked 43rd among
states at $8,562 in the school year ending in 2009, down from
36th a decade earlier, Lynn Moak, a partner at Moak, Casey &
Associates, said in October at a conference of school
administrators. His firm in Austin advises schools on finances.
National Education Association data show Texas ranked 39th in
the past school year, at $9,128 per pupil.  Local business leaders including  Ed Whitacre , the former
AT&T Inc. chairman, have warned that a decline in the quality of
public education may undermine efforts to increase jobs.  Aid Trails Growth  State aid hasn’t kept pace with the estimated 80,000-
student enrollment increase each year, dropping as much as $400
per pupil this year, according to Lauren Cook, a spokeswoman for
the Equity Center in Austin. The nonprofit organization
represents 690 less-wealthy systems and organized a lawsuit that
claims the state’s financing mechanism is unconstitutional and
seeks to force an increase in funding.  Similar complaints have been brought against other states
such as  Connecticut  and New Jersey, where Governor  Chris Christie  was ordered to raise spending in the 31 poorest
districts by $500 million. In a 3-2 ruling in May, the  New
Jersey  Supreme Court said “full funding” for the schools was a
“constitutional mandate.”  Connecticut  schoolchildren haven’t been given sufficient
resources by the state to make up for disparities in local
property-tax revenue, according to Philip Streifer, the
superintendent of the Bristol system and president of the
Connecticut Coalition for Justice in Education Funding. The
group is the lead plaintiff in the lawsuit, which may go to
trial as early as next year.  ‘Expensive’ Endeavor  “I wish politicians would understand that given the
requirements and labor laws and mandates, education is
expensive,” said Streifer, an educator in Connecticut since
1971. “This funding problem is systemic. It was in place when I
started 40 years ago and it hasn’t been resolved.”  Past court action has helped determine state aid for Texas
schools. Perry led an effort in 2006 to revise public-education
financing and resolve lawsuits that claimed funding wasn’t
adequate in districts with smaller property-tax bases.  The changes cut local property-levy rates by a third and
broadened business taxes to apply to more operations, including
partnerships. Yet  revenue  from the expanded tithe has missed
forecasts by billions of dollars, both Republican and Democratic
lawmakers have said. Perry opposed raising taxes this year.  Inadequate Tax  The so-called margins tax generated less than $4 billion in
2009, compared with initial projections of $5.9 billion a year,
Joseph Henchman, a Tax Foundation vice president in  Washington ,
said in an August report. His analysis for the nonprofit
research group showed that numerous exemptions and confusion on
applying the rules raised compliance costs and curbed revenue.  New or higher levies for education are opposed by most
Republican lawmakers following a decade in which schools showed
limited improvement after receiving more state aid, said Michael
Quinn Sullivan, president of Empower Texans, a nonprofit
organization in Austin that promotes limited government. Most
Republicans, who run the Legislature, have signed pledges to
oppose tax increases, he said.  “The schools just want more money flowing in and that
seems to be their only way to measure success in education,”
Sullivan said in a telephone interview. “Never mind that we
doubled per-pupil spending over the past decade yet SAT scores
and other measurements remained flat and half of our graduates
going to four-year institutions require remediation.”  Fallout Concerns  Opposition to increased aid to schools may cost Texas its
economic edge as better teachers leave and businesses decide
against expansion in the state, Meria Carstarphen, the
superintendent of the Austin Independent School District, said
Nov. 3 in a speech to a local civic group.  “Never in my life have I seen the amount of blaming and
finger-pointing against educators that I saw in this last
legislative session,” said Carstarphen, who led  St. Paul ,
 Minnesota ’s school system before moving to Austin two years ago.  While student test scores in her district exceed state and
national averages, she said, “I don’t want us to go down with
the Titanic like the rest of Texas.”  Texas schools still rely on property taxes for about 47
percent of their funding, with the state supplying 42 percent
and the balance from federal sources, according to Equity Center
figures. The state’s 512 districts with the lowest property
valuations get about $5,200 to spend per student, compared with
$7,155 for the 154 districts with the highest real-estate
prices, the group says.  Dealing With Disparity  To reduce the disparity, 134 wealthier districts such as
Austin must hand over a portion of their property-tax revenue to
the state for distribution to poorer districts. Austin has
contributed more than $1 billion to the so-called “Robin Hood”
program over the past decade, Carstarphen said.  Instead of increasing school aid enough to meet previously
mandated spending levels, lawmakers rewrote the rules in June,
effectively cutting support even as enrollments rose. They set
aside a  reserve fund  estimated to reach as much as $7 billion.  “Legislators are telling us, sue us, and sue us soon
because that’s the only way we’re going to change things,” said
Annette Carlisle, who leads Amarillo’s school board. Her three
sons all graduated from the city’s schools, which have about
32,600 students, or 350 more than last year.  Large districts from Amarillo to Austin,  Dallas  and  Fort
Worth  have joined the lawsuit over school funding or have voted
to allocate money to support additional legal action. The
complaint already filed claims the state failed to spend enough
on public education while cutting support more severely for
poorer districts than rich ones, even as it led the U.S. in  job
creation  and  population growth  over the past decade.  Job Cuts  “It’s difficult for individual legislators to take a bold
stand and say we need to start over, we need to raise more money
or change the way we fund districts,” Carlisle said. After
receiving $6 million less in state aid than it would have under
last year’s funding formula, Amarillo balanced its  budget  by
cutting health-insurance payments, overtime and travel, and
eliminating 16 non-classroom jobs, Superintendent Schroder said.  “We have a horribly complicated school-funding system,”
said Carlisle, a Republican who is seeking election to the state
Education Board after 16 years helping to oversee Amarillo’s
schools. “We really need to simplify it.”  Voters should have a chance to amend the Texas constitution
so that a statewide property tax may be imposed and the current
system eliminated, state Senator Steve Ogden, the Finance
Committee head, said Nov. 8 at an Austin conference. Under his
plan, districts might also add a “local enrichment” levy to
supplement their finances.  “We need to let people tell us what they want,” said
Ogden, a Bryan Republican who is retiring at the end of his term
next year. “The problem has been well-identified for more than
20 years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin, Texas, at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  