-- 
GameStop Future Seen in Private Equity as Shorts Climb: Real M&A

-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 
2011-11-29T21:48:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-28/gamestop-future-seen-in-private-equity-as-shorts-climb-real-m-a.html
As short sellers boost their bearish
wagers against  GameStop Corp. (GME)  to the highest level in America,
the world’s largest video-game retailer may find its best hope
with a private equity buyer.  Almost 47 million, or 34 percent, of GameStop’s shares are
currently shorted, the most of any company in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg and
 Data Explorers . Speculators sold borrowed stock on the
assumption prices will drop even as GameStop traded yesterday at
the cheapest level relative to net assets of any U.S. specialty
retailer and a 67 percent discount to its sales, the data show.  Concern that downloadable content will reduce customers at
Grapevine, Texas-based GameStop’s more than 6,000 stores helped
send the shares down 21 percent from their 2011 high, making the
retailer less expensive versus free cash flow than 94 percent of
rivals. That valuation may now help lure  private equity  bidders,
according to  Robert W. Baird  & Co. and Sterne Agee & Leach Inc.
Analysts project the stock will gain 35 percent in the next year
from yesterday’s close, with only one of 18 recommending selling
the company’s shares, estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  “For a brave private equity firm there’s an opportunity,”
 Colin Sebastian , an analyst at Robert W. Baird in  San Francisco 
who rates GameStop “outperform,” said in a telephone
interview. “It’s cheaper that any of the other specialty retail
stocks, it’s priced to be a declining company. That makes it
interesting given the amount of cash it generates.”  Short Selling  Jennifer Henricks, a spokeswoman for GameStop, declined to
comment on takeover speculation.  The company’s shares climbed as much as 3.9 percent before
closing up 1.7 percent to $22.75 today in  New York .  GameStop traces its  roots  to a company formed by  Leonard Riggio , founder of Barnes & Noble Inc., which took GameStop
public in 2002. The company has retail  locations  in 17 countries
and sells video games for systems such as Microsoft Corp.’s Xbox
360 and Sony Corp.’s PlayStation 3. The retailer also allows
customers to trade in old video games and gaming consoles for
credit towards the purchase of other products in its stores.  More than 46.6 million of GameStop’s 139.1 million shares
outstanding are currently shorted, according to New York-based
Data Explorers, as competition increases. The company this month
cut its forecast for fiscal 2011 revenue growth to no more than
3 percent, down from a projection of as much as 6.5 percent.  Best Buy Co. (BBY) , the world’s largest consumer-electronics
retailer, began a used-games business last year, while  Take-Two
Interactive Software Inc. (TTWO) , publisher of the “Grand Theft Auto”
game, and  Electronic Arts Inc. (ERTS) , the second-biggest U.S. video-
game publisher, are offering more downloadable content.  ‘Completely Collapse’  Jim Chanos , who was one of the first investors to bet
against Enron Corp., said in an interview last week on Bloomberg
Television’s “In the Loop” with Betty Liu that GameStop is one
of his current “value traps.”  “The Internet is the most efficient distribution network
ever devised,” Chanos, founder of the $6 billion hedge fund
Kynikos Associates LP, said. “And as the cost of transmitting
and storing a bit approaches zero, anybody that’s in the
business of selling you a physical product that is digitized has
seen their margins just completely collapse over time.”  Blockbuster Inc. , once the world’s biggest movie-rental
company, filed for bankruptcy last year after failing to adapt
its storefront model to online technology pioneered by rivals
including Netflix Inc.  Relative Value  Short sellers such as Chanos have helped push GameStop’s
shares down 65 percent from their all-time high of $63.30 in
December 2007 to $22.36 yesterday. The decline left GameStop
trading at 1.04 times its net assets, the cheapest level among
50 specialty retailers in the U.S. with market values of more
than $1 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  After retreating 13 percent this month through yesterday,
GameStop was valued at 0.33 times sales, near its record low of
0.3 in January 2003. The company traded at 7.8 times free  cash
flow , cheaper than 94 percent of specialty retailers in America,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  GameStop’s “very strong” cash generation and low level of
debt, along with a real estate portfolio with an average lease
life of two years and its business model that allows customers
to buy, sell or trade video games, are among the factors that
differentiate it from Blockbuster, Matt Hodges, a spokesman for
GameStop, said in an e-mailed statement.  The company’s cash of almost $443 million exceeded debt of
$125 million at the end of last quarter, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. In the last quarter before Blockbuster filed for
protection from creditors, it had  $64 million  in cash and $920
million in debt, the data show.  ‘Not a Blockbuster’  GameStop said Nov. 17 its board authorized $500 million for
share and debt repurchases in which some of the funds will be
used to retire its $125 million of 8 percent senior unsecured
notes that were set to mature in October 2012.  “Everybody is looking for the next easy short,” Stephen F. Roseman, chief executive officer at New York-based Thesis
Fund Management LLC, said in a telephone interview. “This is
not a Blockbuster.”  The  Thesis Flexible Fund (TFLEX)  has about 5.8 percent of its
assets invested in GameStop, the highest proportion for any
fund, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Analysts are projecting a rebound in GameStop’s shares,
with an average 12-month price estimate of $30.18, 35 percent
higher than yesterday’s close, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Becoming More Relevant’  GameStop announced the acquisition of two companies in
March to add technology that allows users to stream video games
online or download them to their Internet-connected gaming
consoles as it aims to boost digital sales. While GameStop’s
same-store sales slipped 0.6 percent in the third quarter,
digital purchases made on gaming consoles and personal computers
rose 59 percent, according to its Nov. 17 earnings statement.  “GameStop is gradually getting into the digital space and
becoming more relevant that way,”  Arvind Bhatia , a Dallas-based
analyst for Sterne Agee, said in a telephone interview. And it
“will have a debt-free balance sheet within a few short weeks.
These factors are things private equity would love to see in a
company,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 