-- 
Goldman Sachs Expands Turkey Cover to 60 Stocks, Adds 13 Buys

-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 
2011-11-28T09:49:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-28/goldman-sachs-expands-turkey-cover-to-60-stocks-adds-13-buys.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. expanded
coverage of Turkish stocks to 60, adding 41 new companies
including 13 new “buy” recommendations, the company said in a
report dated November 25 and received by e-mail today.  Top picks are based on macroeconomic themes and include the
“increasing importance of Turkish industry,” rising domestic
consumption and increasing per capita growth, Goldman said.  Goldman now rates 15 Turkish stocks at “buy.” They
include builder  Enka Insaat & Sanayi AS (ENKAI) , fertilizer producer
 Gubre Fabrikalari AS (GUBRF) , gold miner  Koza Altin Isletmeleri AS (KOZAL) ,
pharmaceuticals distributor  Selcuk Ecza Deposu Ticaret & Sanayi
AS (SELEC) , glassmakers  Turkiye Sise & Cam Fabrikalari AS (SISE) , Trakya Cam
Sanayi AS and  Anadolu Cam Sanayii AS. (ANACM)   The list also includes automobile companies  Tofas Turk
Otomobil Fabrikasi AS (TOASO)  and  Dogus Otomotiv Servis & Ticaret AS (DOAS) ,
farm vehicle maker  Turk Traktor & Ziraat Makineleri AS (TTRAK) , acrylic
fiber producer  Aksa Akrilik Kimya Sanayii (AKSA)  AS, white goods
producer  Arcelik AS (ARCLK) , airport operator  TAV Havalimanlari Holding
AS (TAVHL)  and the holding companies  Alarko Holding AS (ALARK)  and  Yazicilar
Holding AS. (YAZIC)   The average potential gain for the new buy-rated stocks is
58 percent compared with an average of 13 percent for Turkish
stocks under coverage, the bank said.  No banks were listed with a “buy” recommendation.  Turkiye
Halk Bankasi AS (HALKB) , a state-owned bank, is the preferred bank in
 Turkey , Goldman said.  Turkey’s economy will “slow sharply and may even enter a
relatively mild recession in late 2011 and early 2012,”
according to the report. Growth should reach about 1.5 percent
in 2012, below the global average, and then return to a higher
rate in the medium term.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  