-- 
Grantham Calls Corporate Profits Freakish

-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 
2011-11-28T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-28/grantham-calls-margins-freakishly-high-that-doll-says-are-here-to-stay.html
U.S. companies are the most
profitable in more than 40 years, and some of the best-known
stock pickers are divided over how long that will last.  Bob Doll , chief equity strategist at  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , said
low labor costs and cost-saving technology will allow companies
to keep up their profitability.  Jeremy Grantham , chief
investment strategist of Boston-based Grantham, Mayo, Van
Otterloo & Co., said margins will send stock markets tumbling
when they eventually revert to their mean.  “The implication for the stock market is ugly, because it
means earnings are unsustainably high,” Grantham’s colleague
Ben Inker, GMO’s director of asset allocation, said in a
telephone interview. GMO, an investment manager that oversees
$93 billion, puts the fair value of the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index at between 950 and 1,000, compared with the 1,158.67 level
at which it closed last week.  U.S. companies’ ability to squeeze more profit from each
dollar of sales is pushing earnings higher, even as the economy
has grown at a below-average clip since the recession ended in
June 2009. Grantham, who called corporate profits “freakishly
high” in an August commentary, sees wide margins as an
aberration. Some of his competitors say changes in the economy
and the way firms operate could keep them near peak levels for
another year or two.  “We don’t think they have to fall,” Doll, whose New York-
based firm is the world’s largest asset manager, said in a phone
interview. BlackRock oversees $3.35 trillion.  Labor, Technology  Two forces that have lifted margins, a weak job market and
investment in labor-saving technology, show no sign of
reversing, Doll said. “We lean towards the optimistic side,”
he wrote in a Nov. 21 note on the stock market’s prospects.  The margins of non-financial companies in the U.S., a
widely used measure of profitability, reached 15 percent in the
third quarter, according to data from Moody’s Analytics Inc. in
 West Chester , Pennsylvania. That was the highest level since
1969. When the recession ended in the second quarter of 2009,
the comparable number was 8.7 percent.  Moody’s measures margins as total profits for non-financial
companies divided by the contribution of those businesses to the
gross domestic product. The number captures the results of a
range of public and private companies and isn’t distorted by the
big swings in earnings of financial firms, according  Mark Zandi ,
the chief economist.  Those on both sides of the debate agree on two things:
margins are unusually high and the driving force behind their
rise is companies’ ability to keep a lid on expenses.  ‘Marvelous Job’  “Businesses have done a marvelous job of reducing costs,”
Zandi said in a telephone interview.  The globalization of the workforce and a U.S. jobless rate
of 9 percent last month have given management the upper hand in
dealing with labor, Zandi said. Wages and salaries as a share of
national income fell to 49.4 percent in the third quarter, the
lowest since the government began collecting the numbers in
1948, Moody’s data show.  Companies, while slow to hire, have been upgrading
technology.  Businesses invested in equipment and software at an annual
pace of $1.15 trillion in the third quarter, up 26 percent since
the fourth quarter of 2009, data from IHS Global Insight in
Lexington, Massachusetts, show.  Emerging Markets  Profit margins have been bolstered by sales to faster-
growing economies in Asian and Latin American emerging markets,
which have helped companies offset weakness in the U.S. and
Europe. American multinationals “are much less dependent on
developed-market economies than they have been in the past,”
William Stromberg, director of global equity research at
Baltimore-based  T. Rowe Price Group Inc. (TROW) , wrote in a November
newsletter.  Dennis Bryan is skeptical that the trends that have
supported margins can continue. Bryan is co-portfolio manager of
the $1.2 billion  FPA Capital Fund (FPPTX) , the top-performing
diversified U.S. stock fund over the past 25 years, according to
Chicago-based  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  The fund gained 14 percent
annually in the period ended Sept. 30, Morningstar data show.  Firms may be reaching their limit in wringing out costs,
after two years of rising margins, Bryan said in a telephone
interview from  Los Angeles .  “Will companies be able to keep tightening their belts by
cutting millions more Americans out of the workforce?” he said.  Long-Term Trend  Profit margins have been trending higher since the
mid-1980s, said  Chris Christopher , an economist at  IHS (IHS)  Global
Insight, who has written on the subject. Quarterly margins
peaked at 11.9 percent in the 1980s, 13.6 percent in the 1990s
and 14.5 percent in the most recent decade, Moody’s data show.  The  S&P 500  returned an annual 20 percent over five years
after margins peaked in the second quarter of 1984. It fell an
annual 1.6 percent over five years after margins hit a high in
the third quarter of 1997, and declined 1.2 percent a year after
the third quarter of 2006, the peak for margins in the most
recent decade.  Sales growth may slow as economies around the world lose
steam, Bryan said. The  International Monetary Fund  trimmed its
forecast in September for global economic growth through 2012
and said  Europe  and the U.S. risk re-entering recession if they
fail to solve their financial problems.  When margins have peaked in the past, they have typically
fallen over the following five years, Bryan told investors in
his third-quarter newsletter.  “We expect a lot of profit disappointments coming our
way,” he wrote.  Grantham also believes in mean reversion, the notion that
most measures drop back to their historical norms over time.  ‘The Great Threat’  “Lower margins are the great threat to market
performance,” he wrote in the August newsletter. Grantham is
known for his bearish investment outlook and for his successful
record in identifying stock-market bubbles.  Margins have been propped up by a “great surge” in
government spending that fueled consumption, Grantham said. As
political pressures force the U.S. to cut its  budget deficit ,
the economy will suffer and margins will drop, Grantham
predicted without laying out a timetable.  GMO expects U.S. large-capitalization stocks to return 1.8
percent a year above inflation over the next seven years,
according to its  website .  With job growth likely to remain “sluggish” and  interest
rates  low, rising costs are no threat to profits, said
BlackRock’s Doll. If the  U.S. economy  continues to “muddle
through” at the growth rates the country has achieved the past
two years, sales should hold up as well, he said.  “We didn’t need a strong economy to get margins high,”
Doll said. “Why do we need a strong one to keep them high?”  Here to Stay  High margins are here to stay, said  Allen Sinai , chief
economist at Decision Economics Inc. in  New York .  Cloud computing, which provides access to software and
computing tasks remotely over the Internet, rather than through
a company’s own system, is just the latest tool corporations can
use to keep costs in check, Sinai said.  “This is the way of the world now,” he said in a
telephone interview. “CEOs are paid to maximize profits.”  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  CEO John Chambers said in a Nov. 10
interview with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television’s “In The
Loop,” “We are all over our gross margins, the whole company
is focused on that.”  Gross margin, Cisco’s fraction of revenue left after
subtracting the cost of goods sold, fell to 61 percent in the
third quarter from 63 percent a year earlier, even after the San
Jose, California-based company eliminated jobs and scaled back
operating expenses.  2012 Estimates  Analysts have reduced their estimates for 2012 sales growth
among S&P 500 Index companies, after the biggest annual sales
increase since at least 1993 this year.  Revenue for the firms in the index will climb 3.9 percent
in 2012, based on the average estimate of more than 10,000
forecasts compiled by Bloomberg earlier this month. Sales will
surge 11 percent in 2011, according to the analysts.  Grantham said of profit margins, “They do not seem to be
connected to economic realty.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Stein in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  