-- 
IMF $797 Billion Italy Loan Report ‘Wide of the Mark,’ BBH’s Chandler Says

-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   B r e n d a n   M u r r a y
-- 
2011-11-28T06:46:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-28/imf-says-no-talks-under-way-with-italy.html
The  International Monetary Fund  said
it isn’t discussing a rescue package with Italy and Japan said
no such talks have occurred within the Group of Seven, amid
concern that Italy will struggle to bring down borrowing costs.  The Washington-based lender isn’t in discussions with
Italian authorities on a program for IMF financing, a
spokesperson for the fund said today in an e-mailed statement.
Italy’s  La Stampa  newspaper reported that the IMF may be
preparing a loan of as much as 600 billion euros ($798 billion)
to support Italian efforts to restore investor confidence.  “The IMF simply does not have the resources” on its own
for such aid,  Marc Chandler  at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co.,
chief currency strategist at the bank in  New York , wrote in a
note to clients. It’s also unclear whether the fund would be
able to get agreement on leveraging its lending capacity to such
a degree, he wrote.  Italy has seen yields on its benchmark 10-year  government
bonds  soar above 7 percent this month as investor skepticism
about the nation being able to sustain its debt load deepened.
Aid of about 600 billion euros would “essentially” allow Prime
Minister Mario Monti’s administration to stay out of the  capital
markets  for 12 to 18 months as it implemented fiscal tightening
and sought to win back bondholders’ confidence, Chandler said.  Italy Plans  Japan’s government isn’t sure whether Italy wants a 600
billion-euro IMF rescue, a Japanese government official said on
condition of anonymity because of his ministry’s policy. The G-7
hasn’t discussed the issue, the official said.  The IMF, which extended one-third of the rescue packages
for  Greece , Ireland and Portugal, had about $390 billion
available for lending as of Nov. 17, according to data posted on
its website. The Italian daily reported that the IMF had several
options to increase its firepower, including coordination with
the  European Central Bank .  Italy would pay an interest rate of 4 percent to 5 percent
on the loan, La Stampa reported, without saying where it got the
information.  “Schemes to leverage the IMF, which the proposal seems to
assume, quickly run into political and technical difficulties,”
Chandler said. “It is not clear who bears the cost of the risk.
It is not clear that leveraging the IMF would be acceptable to a
sufficient number of members.”  Bank of France Governor  Christian Noyer  said today that
markets have forgotten  Italy ’s strengths, including a strong
industrial base. Euro-area bond markets “are not functioning
normally,” he said at a forum in Tokyo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  