-- 
India Government to Seek Coal India View on Buyback, B-UTV Says

-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 
2011-11-28T08:49:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-28/india-government-to-seek-coal-india-view-on-buyback-b-utv-says.html
The views of  Coal India Ltd. (COAL)  will be
sought on a plan to buy back shares held by the Indian
government, Bloomberg UTV reported today, citing Newswire 18.  Coal  India  has received a cabinet note on the matter, the
 news agency  quoted Coal Secretary Alok Perti as saying.  India may allow state-owned companies, including Coal
India, to buy back shares owned by the government to narrow a
budget gap as an alternative to dwindling proceeds from public
offerings, Disinvestment Secretary Mohammad Haleem Khan said
Oct. 13. The South Asian nation has raised 11.4 billion rupees
($220 million) since April, or about 3 percent of the target, as
falling stock markets hurt demand for shares.  Coal India, the world’s biggest producer of the commodity,
climbed 4.4 percent to 322.25 rupees as of 1:35 p.m. in Mumbai
trading, after gaining as much as 5.1 percent. The stock has
risen 2.3 percent this year, compared with a 22 percent decline
in the benchmark Sensitive Index.  Coal Secretary Perti could not immediately be reached in
his office.  Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  said last month it would
be a “challenge” to narrow the government’s budget deficit to
a four-year low of 4.6 percent of gross domestic product by the
end of March.  The coal miner, in which the government holds a 90 percent
stake, and its units had cash and equivalent of 549.8 billion
rupees as of Sept. 30, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The government sold Coal India shares in October 2010 in
the nation’s largest IPO. The sale was 15 times oversubscribed
and raised 152 billion rupees, helping the government meet part
of its asset-sale target for that year.  Oil & Natural Gas Corp., India’s biggest exploration
company, withdrew its share-sale document Nov. 22 after an oil
ministry official said the proposed offering may not take place
in the year ending March 31. India planned to sell stakes in
companies including ONGC, Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd. and
National Building Construction Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  