-- 
Indian Politicians Unite to Slam Singh’s Plans for Wal-Mart, Tesco Entry

-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 
2011-11-28T09:05:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-28/indian-politicians-slam-foreign-retail-plan.html
Opposition parties and government
allies rounded on Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s bid to open
 India ’s retail sector to foreign companies like  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. (WMT) , stalling parliament for a fifth day with their protests.  In a rare concerted attack on the ruling Congress party,
Singh’s two largest parliamentary partners joined the opposition
in criticizing the policy approved by the Cabinet last week,
forcing both houses of parliament to adjourn. Overseas retailers
stand to be barred from opening stores in at least 19 of India’s
45 largest cities with state assemblies set to veto their entry.  “There is a lot of very strong opposition to this
initiative that will take a very long time to resolve,” said
 Manish Sonthalia , who manages $250 million in equities at
Mumbai-based  Motilal Oswal (MOFS)  Asset Management Co. “It is
disappointing that there is no consensus at all.”  The biggest change to foreign ownership rules in India in
more than six years came after Singh’s government had been on
the defensive for more than a year, its legislative agenda
stalled by corruption scandals. Commerce Minister  Anand Sharma 
last week argued the step to attract foreign retailers may
create up to 10 million jobs, give better prices to farmers and
help reduce inflation by cutting  food waste . Stores would be
restricted to cities of more than 1 million people, he said.  His attempt to douse opposition to the plan failed. Uttar
Pradesh Chief Minister Mayawati, the leader of India’s most
populous state, was among the regional leaders criticizing the
government’s decision yesterday.  ‘Sky High’ Prices  She said allowing foreign direct investment in the retail
sector would bankrupt her state by forcing local shops to close
down and was motivated by a desire to appease overseas companies.  Tamil Nadu’s Chief Minister J. Jayalalithaa condemned the
government for failing to consult parliament on such a key
decision and said that the experience of allowing foreign
retailers in other countries led to price rises as companies
establish a monopoly exploiting farmers and consumers.  “The world over, whenever local governments opened up the
retail sector, local prices went up sky high,” Jayalalithaa
said in a  statement . “To announce such a major policy decision
affecting millions of people outside of parliament without even
consulting the state governments is unprecedented and indicates
the overwhelming arrogance of the government.”  Shares Fall  Shares of Indian retailers fell in Mumbai trading as the
level of opposition became evident.  Pantaloon Retail India Ltd. (PF) 
dropped 6.1 percent and  Trent Ltd. (TRENT) ,  Tesco (TSCO) ’s India partner, was
down 3.1 percent as of 1:54 a.m.  The decision to lift the caps has been criticized by
Congress’ leading allies, the Trinamool Congress and the Dravida
Munnetra Kazhagam, who argue the move will lead to job losses
and hurt small shopkeepers.  The ability of individual states to scupper the plans of
foreign companies highlights the growing power of regional
leaders in India at a time when the national government is weak,
according to Satish Misra, a political analyst at the New Delhi-
based Observer Research Foundation.  “The smaller parties are able to blackmail the government,
completely stalling decision making,” said Misra. “This is bad
policymaking because you have parties that are only thinking on
a small-time horizon. They are not thinking about what is best
for India as a whole.”  Strike Call  The  Confederation of All India Traders  and Bharat Udyog
Vyapar Mandal, which represent small retailers, encouraged
shopkeepers to close their stores on Dec. 1 in protest against
the government’s decision.  India’s cabinet last week took the decision, which doesn’t
need parliamentary approval, to allow overseas companies to own
as much as 51 percent of retailers selling more than one brand.
The government also approved plans allowing companies that sell
a single brand such as  Nike Inc. (NKE)  to own 100 percent of their
operations, removing a cap previously set at 51 percent.  The government took out full-page advertisements in major
Indian newspapers yesterday saying the move will help farmers,
benefit consumers and create more jobs. The adverts attempted to
counter a number of “myths” such as farmers will be exploited
and it will harm the interests of small local shopkeepers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Macaskill in  New Delhi  at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  