-- 
Lions Gate Said to Be in Merger Talks With ‘Twilight’ Film Producer Summit

-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r   a n d   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 
2011-11-29T21:13:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-28/lions-gate-said-to-be-in-merger-talks-with-twilight-film-producer-summit.html
Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF) , the
independent film and TV company, is in merger talks with Summit
Entertainment LLC, the studio behind the “Twilight” vampire
movies, three people with knowledge of the situation said.  The companies have resumed discussions that broke down in
the past over price and control issues, the people said
yesterday. They declined to speak publicly because talks are
private and there’s no assurance a deal will be reached. Summit
has additional suitors, one of the people said.  Lions Gate would gain access to the cash generated by the
five “Twilight” movies. The first four films have grossed more
than $1 billion in U.S. and Canadian ticket sales for Summit,
according to Box Office Mojo. A combination would produce a
payday for owners of closely held Summit who formed the studio
in 2007 with funding from Merrill Lynch & Co.  Melissa Zukerman, a spokeswoman for Summit, declined to
comment, as did Peter Wilkes, a spokesman for  Lions Gate .  Summit, based in  Santa Monica ,  California , is scheduled to
release the fifth “Twilight” movie in a year. Globally,
‘Twilight’ box office sales total $2.29 billion. The studio is
led by co-chairmen Rob Friedman, a former Paramount Pictures
executive, and Patrick Wachsberger.  The company raised $750 million this year to finance
moviemaking, repay debt and pay a dividend to investors, which
include  Rizvi Traverse Management LLC .  Lions Gate, also run from Santa Monica, California, has
about $550 million in short- and long-term debt, according to
Bloomberg data, and has struggled to remain profitable.  ‘Hunger Games’  Because of its debt, Lions Gate would likely issue stock to
finance a merger, Benjamin Mogil, an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus
& Co., said today in a note to investors. Mogil, based in  St.
Louis , has a “hold” rating on the shares.  The studio, which fought off  Carl Icahn  this year, produces
cable TV’s “Mad Men” series and in March will release “The
Hunger Games,” a film based on a young-adult book trilogy that
has been compared with the “Twilight” novels. With a
production budget of about $80 million, the first film is the
most costly ever for Lions Gate.  “The Hunger Games” and three potential sequels may
generate $220 million to $733 million in earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization for Lions Gate
over the next several years, according to James Marsh, an
analyst at Piper Jaffray & Co. in  New York .  Lions Gate, based in  Vancouver , fell 1.1 percent to $8.44
at the close in New York trading. The shares have gained 30
percent this year.  Lions Gate tried to buy then-bankrupt Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer
Studios Inc. last year, an effort complicated by investor Carl Icahn, one of Lions Gate’s largest shareholders at the time.  Icahn, who had attempted a hostile takeover of Lions Gate,
sold his shares in August in a settlement that also ended all
litigation between the parties.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ronald Grover in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net ;
Michael White in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  