-- 
Italy Pays More Than 7% at Treasury-Bond Auction for Third Time in a Week

-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 
2011-11-29T12:14:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-28/italy-set-for-a-sizeable-cost-increase-at-8-billion-euro-bond-auction.html
Italy  was again forced to pay above
the 7 percent threshold that led  Greece ,  Portugal  and Ireland to
seek bailouts when it sold 7.5 billion euros ($10.1 billion) in
bonds today, short of the maximum target for the auction.  The Rome-based Treasury sold 3.5 billion euros of a new
three-year bond, 2.5 billion euros of 2022 bonds and 1.5 billion
euros in 2020 bonds, just shy of the top range of 8 billion
euros for the sale. The 2014 note yielded 7.89 percent, the
highest since September 1996 for a three-year bond and up from
4.93 percent when similar-maturity debt was sold last month.  “Italy is paying a considerable premium for its debt and
today’s auction confirmed the recent trend,” Annalisa Piazza,
an economist at Newedge Group in  London , said in a note. “If we
want to look at the ‘bright’ side, the Italian Treasury managed
to allocate a big size of its debt today.”  The surge in Italian yields to near euro-era records, even
as the  European Central Bank  backstops the nation’s bonds, is
fueling investor concern about the sustainability of a debt load
bigger than  Spain , Greece, Ireland and Portugal combined. The
Italian auction came as euro-region finance chiefs gather in
Brussels to try to advance their latest plan for ending the two-
year-old debt crisis.  Bond Yields  Italy’s 10-year benchmark bond pared gains after the
auction, the yield climbing 10 basis points to 7.36 percent at
12:50 p.m.  Rome  time. The  yield difference  with German bunds
widened to 505 basis points, and Italy’s two-year note yield
rose 4 basis points to 7.14 percent. The euro was at $1.3383
compared with $1.3320 yesterday.  The Treasury sold the 2022 bond to yield 7.56 percent,
up from 6.06 percent when the security was last sold Oct. 28,
and auctioned the 2020 bond at 7.28 percent, up from 5.47
percent the last time it was sold on Sept. 13. Demand for the
2014 bond was 1.5 times the amount sold, while the bid-to-cover
for the 2022 bond was 1.34 times. That compared respectively
with 1.35 times and 1.27 times at the Oct. 28 auction. Today
marked the third auction in a week when Italy paid pay more than
7 percent.  “These are hopelessly unsustainable yields and reflect the
panic that is enveloping the euro zone,” Nicholas Spiro,
managing director of Spiro Sovereign Strategy in London, said in
an e-mailed note.  Competing Auctions  Italy this week was competing with debt sales in  Belgium ,
 France  and Spain of as much as 10 billion euros. Belgium sold
1.02 billion euros of three-month and six-month treasury bills,
less than initially planned even as demand rose. The nation paid
2.438 percent for the 6-month debt, the highest in three years.
Both France and Spain sell bonds on Dec. 1.  Finance ministers from the 17-member euro region meet today
in Brussels to thrash out details on how to boost the financial
muscle of its bailout fund before an EU summit on Dec. 9 and
stop contagion to the EU’s core. Government bond yields for both
 Germany  and France,  Europe ’s two largest economies, climbed last
week as a German bond auction failed to get bids for 35 percent
of the 10-year debt on offer.  “It looks like contagion is spreading to core countries”
in Europe, Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said on Nov. 25.  Monti’s Moves  Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  is planning to announce
measures to cut the 1.9 trillion-euro debt before he attends his
first EU summit since becoming sworn in on Nov. 16. Italy’s new
government may reinstate property taxes, overhaul the tax system
and pension rules, and modify  labor laws , Monti, who is also
finance minister, told Parliament in Rome earlier this month.  The jump in Italian yields has come even with the ECB
trying to shore up demand for the nation’s debt. The ECB started
buying Spanish and Italian debt on Aug. 8 to try to tame
borrowing costs after the 10-year yield had surged to euro-era
record of 6.4 percent. After falling to under 5 percent around
mid-August, the Italian 10-year yield resumed rising and reached
a new record of 7.48 percent on Nov. 9.  Italy’s relatively low  budget deficit  and a primary surplus
mean the country can sustain the higher borrowing costs for some
time, the  Bank of Italy  said on Nov. 2. Even if yields on “all
new issues of  government securities ” started to increase on
Jan. 1 by 2.5 percentage points, debt would still decline to
115.5 percent of GDP in 2014. Should economic growth also come
to a standstill in the next three years, debt would “stabilize
at just over 120 percent of GDP,” the central bank said.  Debt Restructuring  New York University economist  Nouriel Roubini  wrote in the
Financial Times today that Italy will be forced to restructure
its debt to avoid a default, because the country won’t be able
to generate a big enough primary surplus for the government to
meet its debt-reduction targets.  The  International Monetary Fund  denied yesterday a report
in Italy’s La Stampa newspaper saying it’s discussing a rescue
plan of as much as 600 billion euros to support Italian efforts
to restore investor confidence.  Italy, whose economic growth has trailed the euro-region
average for more than a decade, may contract 0.5 percent next
year, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
said yesterday in its semi-annual outlook. The OECD called for
Monti to take decisive action” to meet the target of a balanced
budget in 2013.  Moody’s Investors Service said in a report yesterday that
the probability of multiple defaults by euro-area countries is
no longer negligible.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 