-- 
Mitsui O.S.K. Jumps as Maersk, MISC Capacity Cuts May Spur Container Rates

-- B y   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 
2011-11-28T09:35:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-28/mitsui-o-s-k-jumps-as-maersk-misc-capacity-cuts-may-spur-container-rates.html
Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd. ,  Japan ’s
largest shipping line by market value, surged the most in a
month in Tokyo trading on speculation container lines’ capacity
cuts may revive rates.  The company jumped 6.2 percent to close at 240 yen.  Nippon
Yusen KK  climbed 5 percent and  Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha Ltd. (9107)  rose
5.7 percent.  The three shipping lines, all based in Tokyo, may be able
to raise cargo-boxes rates after AP Moeller-Maersk A/S, the
world’s largest container line, announced plans to merge
services and MISC Bhd. said it would stop operating cargo-box
ships, said  Ryota Himeno , an analyst at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan
Stanley Securities Co. Maersk and MISC are acting because global
overcapacity has depressed rates and caused industrywide losses.  “Other lines may follow Maersk, which will benefit
sales,” Himeno said. MISC’s withdrawal “will also bring some
side benefits to the Japanese lines,” he said.  In  Hong Kong , China Cosco Holdings Co., the nation’s
biggest container line, rose 4.6 percent, while second-ranked
China Shipping Container Lines Co. climbed 8.7 percent. Neptune
Orient Lines Ltd. gained 4 percent in  Singapore .  Maersk  plans to combine an India-Europe service with an
Asia-Europe one from early February, the Copenhagen-based
company said Nov. 25. The shipping line also plans to announce
capacity cuts on the Asia-Europe routes,  Tim Smith , the head of
its north Asia operations, said last week.  MISC will stop operating container vessels by the end of
June, it said last week. The Kuala Lumpur-based company, which
predominately operates tankers, said it has lost $789 million in
it container-shipping unit over the past three years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kiyotaka Matsuda in  Tokyo  at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 