-- 
Kingfisher Air Falls On Government Probe

-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 
2011-11-28T06:36:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-28/kingfisher-air-falls-on-government-probe.html
Kingfisher Airlines Ltd., (KAIR)  the Indian
carrier that cut flights amid a cash shortage, fell the most in
more than a week in Mumbai trading after a government official
said the aviation ministry is scrutinizing its finances.  The company’s shares slumped as much as 6.8 percent, the
most since Nov. 18 in intraday trading, to 25.25 rupees. It
changed hands at 26.60 rupees at 11:52 a.m. in Mumbai. Jet
Airways ( India ) Ltd. and  SpiceJet (SJET)  Ltd. also dropped. All three
stocks have plunged at least 60 percent this year.  Kingfisher stopped flying 12 of its 27 ATR planes,
prompting authorities to consider taking back some airport
slots, the official said Nov. 25, declining to be identified
because of department rules. Chiefs of Indian carriers met Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh  the next day as they sought assistance
to stem industrywide losses caused by fuel costs and a price
war.  “It’s not a hidden thing that the company is fighting very
hard to raise capital,” said Sharan Lillaney, an analyst at
Angel Broking Ltd. In Mumbai. “Doing an audit will not give you
any other result.”  The ministry is reviewing Kingfisher’s accounts to
determine whether the airline has the financial strength to pay
for spares and aircraft services, the official said. The
carrier, based in Bangalore, has pared daily services to 300
from 340 and is seeking new loans after losses widened.  Returning Planes  Prakash Mirpuri, a spokesman for Kingfisher, didn’t
immediately respond to e-mailed questions. The carrier is
returning two planes it leased from AerCap Holdings NV after the
company “could not agree on mutually acceptable extension
terms,” he said in a statement on Nov. 24.  Kingfisher as well as  Jet Airways (JETIN) , the nation’s largest
carrier, and SpiceJet, India’s only listed low-cost airline,
owed money to state-owned fuel suppliers in the quarter ended
Sept. 30, oil minister S. Jaipal Reddy told parliament Nov. 24.  Private airlines have blamed fuel costs and low fares for
their troubles. The price of jet kerosene, the biggest expense
for carriers, increased about 31 percent this year in Mumbai,
according to Indian Oil Corp.’s website. Taxes on the fuel
average about 25 percent.  Kingfisher also defaulted on payments to airports and is
paying cash every day to use the facilities, a civil aviation
ministry official, who refused to be identified citing
government policy, said last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  