-- 
Kleiner Perkins Backs Fixmo as Wireless Security Threats Rise

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-11-28T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-28/kleiner-perkins-backs-fixmo-as-wireless-security-threats-rise.html
Mobile-security software maker Fixmo
Inc. raised $23 million in new financing from backers including
 Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers , banking on rising demand as
the government lets employees use their own devices for work.  “We’re seeing mounting pressure now to ensure these
devices are being used in proper ways,” Tyler Lessard, chief
marketing officer of the Toronto-based company, said in an
interview. That creates “a lot of opportunity.”  Faced with demands to cut costs, government agencies are
increasingly allowing workers to use personal iPhones and other
handsets for business. While it saves money that might otherwise
be spent on government-issued BlackBerrys from Research In
Motion Ltd., it creates a security headache that Fixmo wants to
resolve with its software.  Fixmo, founded in 2009, worked with the U.S. National
Security Agency to develop the technology behind its Sentinel
software that it is betting will give it an edge over rivals,
such as  Redwood City , California-based Good Technology Inc.  Fixmo, with customers in government, defense, financial
services and health care, plans to use the money to add new
products and expand into Europe and  Asia , Lessard said.  Silicon Valley venture-capital firm Kleiner Perkins has
previously backed companies such as Google Inc.,  Zynga Inc.  and
Amazon.com Inc. Other investors in Fixmo include Rho Ventures,
Horizon Ventures and Paladin Capital Group, which led the latest
round.  Spyware, Viruses  The move to personal devices means technology departments
have to support a wider range of smartphones and tablets. As a
result, information chiefs need to be wary of the risk of
computer bugs, or malware, on devices such as those running
 Google Inc. ’s Android software, Lessard said.  “We’re seeing a lot of headlines lately about the amount
of malware being focused on the mobile space and particularly on
Android,” said Lessard, who joined Fixmo in September from  RIM (RIM) ,
where he oversaw software-developer relations.  The Android operating system has had an almost sixfold
increase in threats such as spyware and viruses since July,
Juniper Networks Inc. said this month. Android’s market share
more than doubled to 53 percent in the third quarter as  RIM  and
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  lost share, according to research firm Gartner Inc.  “Especially if you’re reducing budgets, you can’t afford a
compliance breach where you could actually be fined,” Lessard
said. “We want to help these organizations not get fined or
sued.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  