-- 
New China Life May Sell $780 Million of Stock in IPO to Cornerstone Buyers

-- B y   F o x   H u   a n d   S e a n   C o l l i n s
-- 
2011-11-28T07:14:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-28/new-china-life-may-sell-780-million-of-share-sale-to-cornerstone-buyers.html
New China Life Insurance Co., the
insurer backed by  Zurich Financial Services AG (ZURN) , may sell $780
million of its initial public offering to so-called cornerstone
investors including D.E. Shaw & Co. and Khazanah Nasional Bhd.,
two people with knowledge of the matter said.  Great  Eastern Holdings Ltd. (EH)  agreed to invest $380 million
in the IPO, according to a statement from the Singapore-based
insurer today. DE Shaw and  Khazanah ,  Malaysia ’s sovereign wealth
fund, each plan to invest $150 million in the IPO, while MBK
Partners Ltd. may buy another stake worth $100 million, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because the information
is private.  Cornerstone investors are guaranteed stock in an IPO in
return for commitment to hold on to their stakes, typically for
six months. New China Life, based in Beijing, may raise up to $3
billion from the sale of shares in both  Hong Kong  and Shanghai.  The insurer is seeking to bolster its capital base through
the stock sale, according to a term sheet sent to investors on
Nov. 21. The IPO comes as shares in major Chinese rivals have
plunged on declining solvency ratios.  China Life Insurance Co. (2628) 
and Ping An Insurance (Group) Co., the country’s two biggest
insurers, have both fallen about 38 percent in Hong Kong this
year.  25 Million Customers  Sources of “capital replenishment” for Chinese insurers
are “limited,” Chen Wenhui, deputy chairman of the China
Insurance Regulatory Commission, said at a conference in Beijing
on Nov. 12. The country should allow insurers to sell
subordinated bonds and explore the possibility of selling bonds
in Hong Kong and overseas, he said.  Founded in 1996, New China Life had about 25 million
individual customers at the end of June, according to a  filing 
to the China Securities Regulatory Commission on Nov. 11. The
company ranked fourth among Chinese life insurers by premium
income in this year’s first nine months,  government data  show.  New China Life plans to start Hong Kong trading on Dec. 16,
according to the term sheet. The company plans to issue up to
158.5 million shares in  Shanghai  and as many as 358.4 million
shares in Hong Kong, according to the Nov. 11 filing.  BNP Paribas SA, China International Capital Corp., Deutsche
Bank AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and UBS AG are among banks
arranging New China Life’s IPO.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net ;
Sean Collins in Singapore at 
 scollins14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  