-- 
New China Life Said to Seek $1.6 Billion in Hong Kong Part of Initial Sale

-- B y   F o x   H u   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 
2011-11-29T08:52:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-28/new-china-life-said-to-seek-1-6-billion-from-hong-kong-offering.html
New  China Life Insurance Co. (2628) , the
state-backed insurer part owned by  Zurich Financial Services AG (ZURN) ,
may raise up to $2.3 billion in an initial public offering in
 Hong Kong  and  Shanghai , according to terms for the transaction.  The insurer is offering 358.4 million shares at HK$28.20
($3.62) to HK$34.33 apiece in the Hong Kong portion of the IPO,
the stock sale document shows. New  China  Life may sell 158.5
million shares in Shanghai, the company said this month. The
Shanghai offering would raise 4.5 billion yuan ($698 million),
based on the same pricing as the Hong Kong sale.  Companies are planning to sell as much as $7 billion of new
shares in Hong Kong before the end of 2011, betting on a revival
in investor appetite after the value of IPOs slumped almost 70
percent this year. Chow Tai Fook Jewellery Group Ltd., which is
seeking to raise up to $2.8 billion, received bids for all the
stock available to money managers in its first day of order
taking yesterday, people with knowledge of the matter said.  New China Life plans to sell almost half of the Hong Kong
portion of its IPO, or $780 million of stock, to so-called
cornerstone investors including  Great Eastern Holdings Ltd. (GE)  and
 Malaysia ’s sovereign wealth fund, people familiar with the
matter said yesterday. The company plans to start trading in
Hong Kong on Dec. 16, the terms show.  The insurer is seeking funds to bolster its capital,
according to the terms, after shares in major Chinese rivals
plunged on declining solvency ratios. China Life Insurance Co.
and  Ping An Insurance (2318)  (Group) Co., the country’s two biggest
insurers, have fallen about 38 percent in Hong Kong trading this
year.  PICC Rights Offer  Chen Wenhui, deputy chairman of the China Insurance
Regulatory Commission, said this month that sources of “capital
replenishment” for insurers are “limited” and that the
country should allow companies in the industry to sell
subordinated bonds. PICC Property and Casualty Co. today
announced plans to raise 5 billion yuan through a rights offer.  Central Huijin Investment Ltd ., a unit of China’s sovereign
wealth fund, is New China Life’s biggest shareholder with a 38.8
percent stake. Zurich Insurance Co., a unit of Zurich Financial,
is the third-biggest investor with a 15 percent holding,
according to a Nov 11 filing from New China Life.  Companies have raised $15.9 billion this year via Hong Kong
IPOs, compared with $49.1 billion for the same period last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  HKT Trust , the
telecommunications business trust sold by PCCW Ltd., rose to
HK$4.55 on its first day of trading in Hong Kong today from the
IPO price of HK$4.53.  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA, China International Capital Corp.,  Deutsche
Bank AG (DBK) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  UBS AG (UBSN)  are among banks
arranging New China Life’s IPO.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  