-- 
Nomura Holdings Reduced Its Italian Assets by 83% Since End of September

-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 
2011-11-29T06:28:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-28/nomura-said-to-cut-its-giips-assets-by-75-since-end-september.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) , Japan’s
largest brokerage, reduced assets linked to  Italy  by 83 percent
from the end of September as it slashed southern European
holdings amid the region’s widening sovereign debt crisis.  The total for Italy was reduced to $467 million as of Nov.
24 from almost $2.82 billion, according to a statement posted on
the Tokyo-based company’s website late yesterday. The securities
firm cut the value of assets linked to  Spain  by 62 percent from
Sept. 30 to $175 million, while  Greece (ASE) ’s was cut 43 percent to
$27 million, it said.  Investors have driven Nomura shares down 52 percent this
year as losses from overseas operations mounted and on concern
that the Tokyo-based brokerage’s European holdings may lead to
wider losses. Nomura is cutting jobs and slashing annual costs
by $1.2 billion, mostly in  Europe , as it also seeks to avert a
potential downgrade by Moody’s Investors Service.  “The reductions may ease concerns in the market, as
investors have been worried about Nomura’s exposure to Italy,”
said  Masao Muraki , an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in Tokyo who
has a “hold” rating on the stock. “The actual effect remains
to be seen.”  In the latest sign of stress in the European financial
system, Moody’s said today that it may cut debt ratings of banks
in 15 countries including Italy to reflect the potential removal
of government support. It will review ratings on subordinated,
junior-subordinated and Tier 3 debt of 87 European banks.  Shares Rise  Shares  of Nomura rose 6 yen, or 2.5 percent, to 246 yen on
the  Tokyo  Stock Exchange, their third straight day of gains.
They fell to 224 yen on Nov. 24, the lowest level in at least 37
years.  Contracts  to insure Nomura bonds against default for five
years fell 5 basis points to 405 in New York yesterday from 410,
the highest in at least a year, according to data provider CMA.  Nomura’s assets linked to Ireland climbed 2.3 percent to
$315 million, the Japanese firm said. The reported holdings for
 Greece , Ireland, Italy,  Portugal  and Spain include debt,
derivatives and counter-party agreements, a person with
knowledge of the matter said yesterday.  Banks around the world are sounding their loudest warnings
yet that the euro area risks unraveling unless its guardians
quickly intensify efforts to beat the two-year sovereign debt
crisis. Economists from banks including Morgan Stanley, UBS AG
and Nomura said over the past week that governments and the
 European Central Bank  must step up their crisis response.  Mainly  Government Bonds   Government bonds accounted for 74 percent of the $3.55
billion linked to the five European nations as of Sept. 30,
according to a  statement  issued by the brokerage on Nov. 1.
Financial institutions consisted of 20 percent and corporates 6
percent, it had said.  More than 80 percent of the amount matures by the end of
March 2012, while Italy accounted for 79 percent, Nomura had
said at that time.  Nomura on Nov. 1 posted a 46.1 billion yen ($591 million)
loss for the three months ended Sept. 30 as pretax losses from
overseas operations swelled to 52.4 billion yen, the biggest in
at least six quarters. The net loss was Nomura’s first in more
than two years, prompting the company to triple a target for
cost cuts with most of the reductions slated for Europe.  The firm started cutting jobs in  Japan  by eliminating at
least 15 positions in equity-related businesses, two people with
knowledge of the matter said last week.  Moody’s on Nov. 9 said it may lower the brokerage’s credit
rating after reviewing losses from its capital markets
activities and the brokerage’s expense-reduction program. The
exposure to Europe’s most troubled nations “appears manageable,
and has not been a rating driver for the review,” the ratings
company said at that time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  