-- 
Thomas Cook Soars as Lenders Provide Funds

-- B y   A r m o r e l   K e n n a
-- 
2011-11-28T09:00:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-28/thomas-cook-soars-as-lenders-provide-funds.html
Thomas Cook Group Plc (TCG)  shares rose as
much as 58 percent in London trading after banks agreed to
provide a loan that will give  Europe ’s second-largest tour
operator time to reorganize its business.  The shares were trading up 37 percent at 24.61 pence as of
8:55 a.m. local time and have now recouped almost half of the 75
percent drop on Nov. 22, when the company said it was in talks
with banks and delayed its annual results. Evolution Securities
raised its recommendation to “neutral” from “sell.”  Thomas Cook said late on Nov. 25 that its lenders agreed to
provide a 200 million-pound ($309 million) loan, which will be
available until April 30, 2013. That eased concern about the
company’s financial position after political unrest in North
Africa and a squeeze on  consumer spending  in the U.K. hurt
holiday bookings ahead of the seasonal low period of cash.  “Although the new facilities provide some short-term
relief, we do not believe that it is necessarily a long-term
confidence vote in the group,”  Greg Johnson , an analyst at
Shore Capital, wrote in a note to investors today. “Longer-
term, we still expect the business to shrink materially, assets
disposed and potential fresh capital raised, which are likely to
lead to significant deterioration in earnings.”  The new agreement with lenders replaced a 100 million-pound
line announced last month. The banks also agreed to further
relax some covenants on existing credit lines.  Strategic Review  “Fortunately, all the bad press has come at a relative
low-point in the booking cycle and the group has the funds and
time to restore partner and consumer confidence in its brand and
survival,” Evolution analyst James Hollins said in a note.  The company’s board, led by interim Chief Executive Officer
Sam Weihagen, said it plans to undertake a strategic review.  Thomas Cook  said in August it had the potential to generate
as much as 200 million pounds within the next 18 months from
selling assets such as hotels and office buildings.  The tour operator’s delayed full-year results will be
released the week of Dec. 12. So-called headline operating
profit for the year ended Sept. 30 is expected to be “broadly
in line” with previous guidance of about 320 million pounds,
Thomas Cook said in a statement on Nov. 22.  Shares of larger competitor  Tui Travel Plc  also rose today,
gaining as much as 3.8 percent to 160.5 pence.  “TUI Travel is likely to see some benefit from a “flight
to quality” on bookings,” said Shore Capital’s Johnson.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Armorel Kenna in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  