-- 
Onyx Shares Rise in Early Trading on Possible Sale of Company

-- B y   S a s h a   D a m o u n i   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 
2011-11-29T21:04:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-28/onyx-pharmaceuticals-said-to-weigh-sale-as-it-explores-strategic-options.html
Onyx Pharmaceuticals Inc., (ONXX)  the
developer of the kidney-cancer treatment Nexavar, climbed 4.4
percent in New York trading on optimism the company may be sold.  Onyx rose $1.88 to $44.68 at the close. The shares of the
South  San Francisco , California-based drug developer surged 14
percent yesterday after two people with knowledge of the matter
said the company is exploring options including a possible sale.  Potential buyers are studying Onyx’s business and its
experimental carfilzomib cancer therapy, said one of the people
who declined to be identified as the discussions are private.
Onyx had a market value of about $2.4 billion as of Nov. 25 and
is working with Centerview Partners LLP to review alternatives,
said the people.  Onyx gave itself more strategic options last month when it
settled a lawsuit with  Bayer AG (BAYN)  over the experimental cancer
medicine regorafenib and amended its collaboration agreement for
Nexavar, said Jim Birchenough, an analyst at Bank of Montreal.
The Oct. 11 agreement relieves Onyx from any future development
or commercialization costs for regorafenib.  The deal with Leverkusen, Germany-based Bayer includes a 20
percent royalty payment on future sales of regorafenib for Onyx,
or its acquirer. The drug may generate $106 million by the end
of 2014, according to analysts. Potential buyers of Onyx also
retain 50-50 profit sharing rights to Nexavar, which may hit
$518.2 million in sales this year, according to the average
estimate of six analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Onyx today said the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration 
accepted a new drug application for carfilzomib for the
potential treatment of patients with relapsed, refractory
multiple myeloma.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sasha Damouni in New York at 
 sdamouni2@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  