-- 
Osborne Said to Ready $46 Billion Program to Fund Infrastructure Projects

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-11-28T09:13:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-28/osborne-said-to-ready-46-billion-program-to-fund-infrastructure-projects.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  will present a 30 billion-pound ($46 billion) program to
finance the construction of roads, railways and infrastructure
projects as he tries to stop the British economy sliding back
into recession.  The decade-long plan, to be announced by Osborne tomorrow,
will seek to attract 20 billion pounds of investment from
pension funds, Chief Secretary to the Treasury Danny Alexander
said today. A further 5 billion pounds will come from savings in
other budgets by 2015 and an additional 5 billion pounds will be
made available thereafter.  “Pension funds have not been investing the savings of
British people in British infrastructure,” Osborne told the
British Broadcasting Corp. yesterday. “We are hopefully going
to change that.”  Osborne is trying to boost growth as he drives through the
deepest budget cuts since World War II and the European debt
crisis crimps demand. He suggested during his BBC interview that
the U.K. economy may struggle to expand by more than 1 percent
this year, less than the 1.7 percent forecast in March.  The chancellor will present his latest economic forecasts
to lawmakers in  London  tomorrow along with the National
Infrastructure Plan and a program to boost lending to small
companies. Infrastructure spending will begin as soon as April,
with a 600 million-pound program to build more classrooms in
inner cities where demand is highest, said a person with
knowledge of the program.  Pension Fund Agreement  The Treasury yesterday signed an agreement with the
National Association of Pension Funds and the Pension Protection
Fund to help the funds invest more in infrastructure. The
Treasury is seeking to double the proportion of pension funds’
assets allocated to the asset class from 2.5 percent today.  “We think we can unlock about another 20 billion pounds of
pension-fund investment into infrastructure -- a combination of
the public sector and private sector working together,”
Alexander told  Sky News  today. “We’ve been working to try and
unlock the pension-fund industry in this country to invest in
British infrastructure in the way that Canadian and Australian
pension funds invest in this country at the moment.”  Alexander told BBC Radio 4’s “Today” show there will be
no extra borrowing to pay for the plan, which will be financed
by “gathering back in” under-spent funds from departmental
budgets and other savings. “We’re making the best use we can
for the very limited resources we have,” he said.  Loan Guarantee  Osborne said yesterday he will also guarantee 20 billion
pounds of loans for small companies as a policy lever to
supplement the  Bank of England ’s 275 billion-pound quantitative-
easing program, in which the central bank creates money to buy
 government bonds  and stimulate the economy.  Opposition lawmakers have said Osborne’s plans to cut the
deficit have undermined the recovery in Britain by squeezing
spending too hard, cutting too many government jobs and shaking
 consumer confidence .  Osborne “said a year ago that if we had faster cuts it
would lead to private sector jobs, to confidence, to falling
unemployment but it hasn’t worked,”  Ed Balls , the opposition
Labour party’s main Treasury spokesman, told the BBC yesterday.
“That has been the fantasy they have peddled for the last year.
It was his decisions that choked off the economy.”  Alexander prepared the ground for the Office for Budget
Responsibility to downgrade its economic forecasts tomorrow,
saying “big headwinds” were facing the British economy in the
form of higher commodity prices and the euro-region debt crisis.  Osborne said he is sticking to his plan to remove the
U.K.’s structural deficit by the time of the next general
election in 2015, vowing to “do what it takes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  