-- 
Pasco Plans Overseas Acquisitions on Yen, Digital-Map Demand

-- B y   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a   a n d   M a s u m i   S u g a
-- 
2011-11-29T08:55:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-28/pasco-plans-overseas-deals-on-yen-emerging-markets-map-demand.html
Pasco Corp. , Japan’s largest
provider of digital maps, plans to buy companies overseas
because of the near-record high yen and surging demand in
 emerging markets  caused by construction booms.  “We welcome the strong yen,” President Youichi Sugimoto
said in a Nov. 25 interview at Pasco’s Tokyo headquarters. “As
far as we can find attractive companies, we aggressively intend
to buy them.”  Pasco, which generates and analyzes maps created from
satellites and planes, particularly intends to expand in  South
America  and enter  Africa  and central  Asia  because of rising
urbanization, Sugimoto said. The company has also had a surge in
domestic interest since Japan’s March earthquake as companies
seek quicker and more-detail information about their operations.  Since the quake, Pasco has signed contracts or begun talks
with around 200 Japanese carmakers, retailers, financial
institutions and other companies about an application that lets
users track employees and operations, Sugimoto said. Prior to
the temblor, it only had one or two clients.  “Corporate customers’ way of thinking about disasters has
totally changed,” Sugimoto said. “Sales from this business are
sure to increase in future.”  Sales Growth  The domestic demand and overseas acquisitions may help
Pasco boost annual sales to at least 58 billion yen ($747
million) in about four years, Sugimoto said. That’s 26 percent
higher than its 46 billion yen target for the current financial
year. Pasco generated about 90 percent of  sales  in  Japan  last
fiscal year.  The company, founded as an aerial-surveyor in 1953, rose
2.6 percent to 238 yen in Tokyo trading. The stock has gained 3
percent this year compared with the Topix Index’s 19 percent
decline.  Secom Co. , the Tokyo-based maker of security equipment,
owns 70 percent of the imaging company.  To expand overseas, Pasco is looking to buy European and
U.S. companies with branches in Africa and South America,
Sugimoto said without elaboration. Last month, it bought a 70
percent  stake  in Keystone Aerial Surveys Inc., a U.S. geospatial
company which provides mapping data for Microsoft Corp.’s Bing
search engine. Keystone’s 18 aerial survey aircraft bolstered
Pasco’s fleet of 42.  The yen traded at 77.81 to the dollar, having gained 4.7
percent this year. It reached a postwar high of 75.35 on Oct. 31.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net ;
Masumi Suga in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  