-- 
Philips Gets U.S. Approval for Combo Health-Scanner to Rival Siemens, GE

-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 
2011-11-28T09:09:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-28/philips-gets-u-s-approval-for-combo-scanner-to-rival-siemens.html
Royal Philips Electronics NV (PHIA)  won
U.S. approval to sell a combination scanner that performs both
PET and magnetic resonance imaging, in a competition to capture
a share of the world’s biggest health-care market from incumbent
 General Electric Co. (GE)   Permission to sell the PET/MR scanner from the  Food and
Drug Administration  culminates a multi-million-euro development
phase spanning seven years, Steve Rusckowski, chief executive
officer of Philips Health care, said in a phone interview. The
Dutch company has 13 orders for the machine outside the U.S.  “The jury is still out” on whether the system can replace
traditional scanners, Rusckowski said in the interview. GE leads
the U.S. health-care scanner market, followed by  Siemens AG (SIE)  of
 Germany .  Philips, based in Amsterdam, is hoping U.S. hospitals will
opt for the benefits of having a combined scanner that can
accelerate imaging time for patients, Rusckowski said. For Chief
Executive Officer Frans van Houten, it’s an opportunity to
expand in a growth market as he steers Philips away from
struggling consumer electronics and lighting.  “This should give them some incremental sales in the U.S.
and help the growth outlook in the business,” said Martin Prozesky, an analyst at Sanford C Bernstein Ltd. The U.S. is
still the most important imaging equipment market, he said.  Philips rose 3 percent to 13.79 euros at 10:08 a.m. in
Amsterdam trading, giving the company a market value of 13.9
billion euros ($18.6 billion).  Growth Market  The scanner uses a chemical tracer to image organs and
tissues, while magnetic fields and radiowaves also scan bone,
and combining systems helps improve the diagnosis of cancers and
cardiovascular diseases at lower radiation levels than x-rays,
he said.  The 16 billion-euro market for diagnostic imaging is
projected to grow with 3 percent to 5 percent a year, according
to Philips, which has installed five of the scanners worldwide
and has orders totaling more than 30 million euros. The new
scanners are complementary to existing ones.  Philips developed the PET/MR scanner at its nuclear
medicine headquarters in  Cleveland , and more orders are in the
pipeline, Rusckowski said. Siemens won regulatory approval to
sell its rival system in the U.S. in June.  “There is a lot of pressure on the health care systems,
but despite the pressure there is still interest in investing in
the future,” Rusckowski said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  