-- 
Privacy Watchdogs Need Greater Powers, EU’s Justice Chief Says

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-11-28T12:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-28/privacy-watchdogs-need-greater-powers-eu-s-justice-chief-says.html
Data-protection authorities in the
European Union must have greater powers to better enforce
privacy rules across the 27-nation region, the EU’s justice
commissioner said.  “The authorities responsible for data protection must be
provided with sufficient powers to enforce the law and they must
have sufficient resources to exercise their powers,”  Viviane Reding  said in prepared remarks of a speech in Brussels today.
“We need legal certainty and a level-playing field for all
businesses that handle personal data of our citizens.”  Reding last year proposed an overhaul of the EU’s 16-year-
old data-protection policies to address online advertising and
social-networking sites. The law, which the regulator intends to
formally publish by February, may include stricter sanctions,
such as criminal penalties, and the option for consumer groups
to file lawsuits.  Companies, like consumers, need “a one-stop-shop when it
comes to data-protection matters, one law and one single data
protection authority for each business; that of the member state
in which they have their main establishment,” said Reding.  Current rules mean any company operating in the EU has to
abide by 27 different interpretations of the region’s rules on
privacy.  “The administrative burden associated with this
fragmentation costs businesses an estimated 2.3 billion euros
($3.08 billion) per year,” said Reding.  The reformed privacy law in the EU will strengthen the
coordination and cooperation between national data protection
authorities to ensure the rules are enforced consistently, said
Reding.  Data Breaches  The commissioner also reiterated her plans to introduce a
general obligation for anyone controlling data to notify
regulators and individuals when a data breach is discovered.  The new rules should ensure that “individuals are
sufficiently informed when their personal data is lost, stolen
or breached,” she said. Reding cited the incident of a security
breach at  Sony Corp. (6758)  that exposed 77 million online
accounts on the company’s PlayStation Network and Qriocity
online services video-and music-streaming services.  “This incident highlighted why companies need to reinforce
the security of the information they hold,” she said.
“Frequent data security breaches risk undermining consumers’
trust in the digital economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  