-- 
Romney in 2006 Backed Immigration Stance He Now Deems ‘Amnesty’

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-11-28T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-28/romney-s-previous-position-on-immigration-mirrors-gingrich-he-criticizes.html
Former Massachusetts Governor
 Mitt Romney , who charged Republican presidential primary
rival  Newt Gingrich  with proposing “amnesty” for certain
illegal immigrants, took a nearly identical position in a
2006 Bloomberg interview, saying some foreigners who
entered the U.S. illegally should be allowed to remain and
gain legal status.  Romney, who at the time hadn’t yet declared his first
presidential candidacy for 2008, told reporters and editors
in Bloomberg News’s Washington bureau that the 11 million
immigrants who entered the U.S. illegally “are not going
to be rounded up and box-carred out.” Law-abiding people
who pay taxes, learn English and don’t rely on government
benefits should be allowed to “get in line” to apply for
citizenship, he said.  “We need to begin a process of registering those
people, some being returned, and some beginning the process
of applying for citizenship and establishing legal
status,” Romney said during the March 29, 2006, session.  The comments contrast with the position Romney took
last week when he challenged Gingrich’s assertion during a
televised debate that the U.S. should have a “humane”
immigration policy that allows some people who entered the
country illegally long ago, have no criminal record, and
have family, civic and religious ties to stay and get legal
status. Romney called the approach “amnesty” and a magnet
for illegality.  Not ‘Moving Them Out’  In 2006, Romney said regarding undocumented immigrants
in this country: “We’re not going to go through a process
of tracking them all down and moving them out.”  He suggested that some could stay and pursue legal
status while others are deported. “We should have those
individuals who are here illegally begin a process either
of returning to their homes -- particularly those that are
unable to be here without  government support  or those who
are involved in crime --or beginning a process of
registering for a citizenship, applying for citizenship and
then carrying out the process necessary to get there,”
Romney said.  While Romney and his campaign say there has been no
change in his position on immigration, some strategists
close to him say Romney did switch stances in 2007, after
traveling to  Iowa  and hearing the depth of anti-immigration
sentiment there. The chief of Romney’s 2008 Iowa campaign,
Doug Gross, called the shift a direct result of Romney
grasping the “political implications” of his immigration
stance.  Rift Over Immigration  Last week’s exchange between Romney and Gingrich
highlighted Republican rifts over immigration, an issue
that can drive votes in the early contest states. Bloomberg
News polls conducted Nov. 10-12 found that more than one-
third of likely Republican caucus and primary voters in
Iowa and New Hampshire said illegal immigration was a
“critical” factor as they evaluated the presidential
candidates. In Iowa, 73 percent said the issue was
“critical” or “important,” about the same as in New
Hampshire, where 72 percent said so.  Gingrich, the former U.S. House speaker from  Georgia 
whose recent poll surge has him competing with Romney for
front-runner status, bucked what has become Republican
orthodoxy on the issue and said he was “prepared to take
the heat” for doing so.  “If you’ve come here recently, you have no ties to
this country, you ought to go home, period. If you’ve been
here 25 years and you got three kids and two grandkids,
you’ve been paying taxes and obeying the law, you belong to
a local church, I don’t think we’re going to separate you
from your family, uproot you forcefully and kick you out,”
Gingrich said.  Amnesty an Incentive  “Amnesty is a magnet,” Romney said during the Nov.
22 foreign-policy debate in  Washington . “People respond to
incentives. And if you could become a permanent resident of
the  United States  by coming here illegally, you’ll do so.”  Lanhee Chen, Romney’s policy director, said Romney
“believes that illegal immigrants who apply for legal
status should not be given any advantage over those who are
following the law and waiting their turn.” In a statement
to Bloomberg News, Chen said Romney “absolutely opposes”
allowing illegal immigrants “to cut in line.”  Gingrich’s campaign said Romney was trying to
obfuscate his stance on immigration.  “Intentionally misleading the same people you’re
running to lead and represent isn’t exactly the best
quality for the next leader of the free world,” said R.C.
Hammond, a Gingrich spokesman. “Newt is being forthright
on this. We refer to it as leadership, and we think it’s
what voters are actually looking for.”  Previous Support  In a 2006 interview with the Boston Globe, Romney
backed the approach in legislation crafted by Republican
Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona  and the late Democratic
Senator Edward Kennedy of  Massachusetts  that would have
created a path to legal status for illegal immigrants.
Then-President  George W. Bush , a Republican, also
championed the approach.  After Romney detected the potency of the issue in
Iowa, he changed course and began criticizing McCain during
the 2008 presidential primary for pressing such a plan, one
strategist close to his campaign said, speaking on
condition of anonymity to avoid publicly disputing the
candidate.  Gross of Iowa, who was chairman of Romney’s 2008
presidential campaign in the state and is neutral this
year, gave the same account. “Four years ago, you were
coming right off the defeat of the Bush bill that people
called amnesty, so a lot of the Republican base was red-hot
over the issue -- it came up at every event here,” Gross
said.  Political Implications  Romney’s decision to attack McCain on immigration, he
added, “was in direct contrast to a lot of the statements
he had made. He sensed the political implications of it,
and that’s why he was doing it.”  Gross said he counseled Romney’s aides at the time
against making a tough anti-immigration stance a central
theme of his campaign. “I thought it would make him look
like he was flip-flopping and sort of feed the narrative
that he would do or say anything to get elected,” Gross
said.  Gingrich revived that story line by taking to the
social networking Web site Twitter last week to post a clip
of a 2007 television interview in which Romney said illegal
immigrants should be allowed to sign up for legal status.  Romney told Iowa voters during a Nov. 23 telephone
call organized by his campaign that he has always believed
that illegal immigrants should be sent back to their
countries of origin to apply for such status. “I just
don’t think that those who have come here illegally should
be given a special pathway, a special deal,” Romney told a
voter who questioned him on the issue.  Another Immigration Skirmish  The Romney and Gingrich skirmish isn’t the first time
the immigration issue has flared during the 2012 primary.  Texas Governor  Rick Perry  sparked a backlash among
Republican activists when he said during a Sept. 22 debate
that those who opposed allowing children of illegal
immigrants to pay in-state tuition rates -- a policy he has
championed as governor -- didn’t “have a heart.” His
opponents, particularly Romney, criticized him for the
statement, and he ultimately retracted it. Perry still
hasn’t recovered from his drop in the polls following that
episode and other debate gaffes.  A Bloomberg News poll released Nov. 15 found that 42
percent of likely Iowa Republican caucus attendees said
past support for a law like the one Perry signed allowing
in-state tuition rates for illegal immigrants would be a
disqualifier for a presidential candidate. In  New
Hampshire , 51 percent said it would be grounds for ruling
out a candidate.  Defining Issues  Gross said while Romney likely benefited from his
strong criticism of Perry on that issue, he faces risks in
making a hard-line stance on immigration a hallmark of his
campaign given that jobs and the economy are the defining
issues on voters’ minds.  “What he needs to be careful about is, 2012 is not
2008. Immigration and social issues are not the defining
issues for Republican caucus-goers,” Gross said. “To the
extent that he appears to pander on immigration issues, I
think it will hurt.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at   or
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  