-- 
New U.S. Home Purchases Likely Held Steady

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-11-28T05:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-28/sales-of-new-u-s-homes-probably-little-changed-as-builders-in-worst-year.html
Purchases of new U.S. houses were
probably little changed in October as the industry headed for
its worst year on record, economists said before a report today.  Sales  came in at a 313,000 annual pace last month, the same
as in September, according to the median estimate of 57
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. That would put the
monthly average for the year at 304,000, less than the 323,000
in 2010 that was the lowest since data-keeping began in 1963.  An overhang of distressed properties in the foreclosure
pipeline that is weighing on prices may keep luring whatever
buyers there are to existing rather than new houses. A  jobless
rate  that has been hovering around 9 percent or higher for more
than two years signals demand will take time to pick up.  “We need to see stronger job growth before we see a
sustained upward trend in housing demand,” said  Sal Guatieri , a
senior U.S. economist at BMO Capital Markets in Toronto.  Economists’  estimates  in the Bloomberg survey ranged from
300,000 to 330,000. The Commerce Department’s report is due at
10 a.m. New York time.  Sales of  previously owned  homes, which make up about 94
percent of the market, unexpectedly rose 1.4 percent to a 4.97
million annual rate in October, figures from the National
Association of Realtors showed Nov. 21. The median price dropped
4.7 percent from October 2010. Cash deals accounted for 29
percent of the transactions, while distressed properties,
including foreclosures and short sales, made up 28 percent.  Leading Indicator  New home sales , which are tabulated when contracts are
signed, have lost their ability to forecast the broader market
as demand shifts to previously owned houses. Purchases of
existing houses are calculated when a deal closes about a month
or two later.  Builder shares have suffered this year as the competition
from existing homes heated up. The Standard & Poor’s
Supercomposite Homebuilder Index has dropped 18 percent so far
in 2011, compared with a 7.9 percent decrease in the broader  S&P
500 .  With falling home prices continuing to weigh on household
wealth and  consumer spending , some Federal Reserve officials
have called for more accommodative policy.  Fed Bank of New York President William C. Dudley said this
month that if the central bank opted to purchase more bonds to
lower  interest rates  and stimulate the economy, “it might make
sense” for much of those purchases to consist of mortgage-
backed securities, which would have a “greater direct impact on
the housing market.”  No Forecast  The lack of demand this year came as a shock to builders
like Atlanta-based  Beazer Homes USA Inc. (BZH) , making them reluctant
to forecast the outlook.  “Even though I do believe that national housing starts are
likely to be higher in 2012, we have not assumed any improvement
in national housing activity as part of our financial planning
for the year,” Allan Merrill , Beazer’s chief executive officer
said during a Nov. 15 call with analysts. “Our predictions
about improving national housing starts for fiscal year 2011
proved to be substantially too optimistic, so I’m reluctant to
go on the record with any more macro predictions.”  
To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  