-- 
Seagate Beats Sales Estimates as Disk-Drive Maker Copes With Thai Flooding

-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 
2011-11-29T21:25:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-28/seagate-beats-sales-estimates-as-disk-drive-maker-copes-with-thai-flooding.html
Seagate Technology Plc (STX)  rose after
the company forecast higher sales than analysts had estimated,
saying it withstood flooding in  Thailand  better than much of the
disk-drive industry.  Seagate, the world’s largest maker of computer drives, will
ship 43 million units in the December quarter, generating about
$2.8 billion in revenue, according to a statement yesterday.
Analysts had projected sales of $2.64 billion, based on data
compiled by Bloomberg.  While the Thai floods will crimp supplies of components,
Seagate’s own factories in the country haven’t been affected by
the disaster, the company said. Two of Seagate’s biggest
competitors,  Western Digital Corp. (WDC)  and  Toshiba Corp. (6502) , have major
plants in the flood zone. In an interview this month, Seagate
Chief Executive Officer Steve Luczo said he could raise prices
40 percent; instead, he’s offering increases of 20 percent to
customers that commit to one- to three-year contracts.  “Seagate is taking this situation and trying to create
long-term good for the company,” said  Jayson Noland , an analyst
at Robert W. Baird & Co. in San Francisco, who has an
“outperform” rating on the shares. “The equipment they have,
they’re just running everything 100 percent. There have been
people scurrying for drives.”  Seagate gained 3.7 percent to $16.58 at the close in  New
York . The shares are up 10 percent this year.  Profit Margins  Seagate’s gross profit margin will be at least 1.5
percentage points higher than the company’s long-term goal of as
much as 26 percent, the company said.  The floodwaters that have engulfed much of the industrial
heartland north of Bangkok have spared both of Seagate’s
sprawling Thai factories. Still, Luczo said the drive industry
wouldn’t recover until at least the end of next year because
specialized component and chemical suppliers were swamped.  Seagate said yesterday it expects the industry to improve
gradually over the course of 2012. In the March quarter, the
company’s revenue will be about $3.75 billion, Seagate said.
Analysts had projected $3.21 billion, according to Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  