-- 
SEC to Investigate Firm Run by 49er Legends

-- B y   E d w a r d   R o b i n s o n
-- 
2011-11-28T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-28/sec-said-to-investigate-firm-run-by-49er-legends-lott-barton.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission is investigating whether HRJ Capital LLC., a defunct
investment firm run by former members of the  San Francisco  49ers
football team, misled investors as it struggled to stay solvent
in 2008, according to four people with direct knowledge of the
probe.  HRJ, co-founded by Hall of Fame safety Ronnie Lott and All-
Pro lineman Harris Barton in 1998, operated funds of funds. The
Woodside, California-based firm invested $2.8 billion in  venture
capital  and leveraged buyout funds for public pension systems
and star athletes such as Indianapolis Colts quarterback  Peyton Manning .  In early 2008, during the worst financial crisis in
decades, HRJ had more than $300 million in unfunded commitments
to buyout funds when it received capital calls to make good on
its pledges, according to company records. As Bloomberg Markets
magazine reported in February, HRJ was unable to raise cash to
meet those obligations and service loans from Silicon Valley
Bank, a unit of  Santa Clara , California-based  SVB Financial
Corp. (SIVB)   SEC lawyers are investigating whether HRJ and its senior
managers improperly shifted debt to investors to try to meet
those capital calls, according to the people, who declined to be
identified because the probe hasn’t been made public. Starting
in about April, SEC lawyers have been interviewing former HRJ
employees and clients, and reviewing e-mails and company
records. Investigators are also probing whether HRJ failed to
disclose the alleged shift of debt to investors, the people say.  Transferred Liabilities  “This is about trust,” said Austin Long, the founder of
Alignment Capital Group LLC, an Austin, Texas-based consulting
firm for the  fund of funds  industry. “What the bedrock piece of
fiduciary duty means is you do what’s right for beneficiaries
even if it’s bad for you.”  Barton declined to comment for this story. Lott’s lawyer,
Rollin Chippey, a San Francisco-based partner with Morgan, Lewis
& Bockius LP, declined to comment on behalf of his client. Marc Fagel, the SEC’s regional director in San Francisco, also
declined to comment, citing the commission’s policy of not
addressing investigations.  In 2008, an HRJ affiliate controlled by Barton and Lott
responsible for fulfilling capital calls issued by private
equity funds transferred those liabilities to HRJ’s funds of
funds without informing investors, according to Deirdre Nectow,
director of business development at Cambridge Associates LLC, a
Boston-based consulting firm that advised many of the firm’s
investors.  After HRJ’s investors discovered the maneuver in the third
quarter of 2008, they protested to HRJ that they were now
responsible for meeting capital calls to buyout funds instead of
the affiliate controlled by Barton and Lott. Such exposure could
drain the funds of capital and ruin its performance.  Over-Commitment Problem  Suomi Mutual Life Assurance Co., an HRJ investor, said in a
February 2009 letter to the firm’s lawyers that the transfers
violated HRJ’s limited partnership agreements, which prohibited
its funds from assuming such risks.  “Our general view is that the limited partners are being
improperly forced to suffer the consequences of the over-
commitment problem created by other parties,” Jussi Snellman, a
lawyer for Helsinki-based Suomi, wrote in the letter.  Barton and Jeffrey Bloom, a former HRJ managing director,
declined to discuss the allegation of the transfer of
liabilities in the Bloomberg Markets story.  49er Dynasty  Lott, 52, and Barton, 47, were members of the 49er dynasty
that won five Super Bowls from 1982 through 1995. They traded on
their gridiron glory to gain access to venture capital and
buyout funds. At HRJ’s peak in 2007, they were placing money for
investors in funds at  Kleiner Perkins  Caulfield & Byers,
 Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and Hellman & Friedman LLC.  To secure allocations in top money managers, Barton and
Lott made financial commitments to them prior to raising cash
from investors, according to interviews Barton gave Bloomberg
News in late 2009. When credit markets started to freeze in
2008, HRJ could no longer win new clients and it burned through
credit lines to satisfy capital calls, according to firm
records.  HRJ was on the verge of bankruptcy when Capital Dynamics
AG, a fund of funds firm based in Zug,  Switzerland , took over
management of its accounts in April 2009, according to company
records. HRJ’s investors suffered no losses, according to a term
sheet of the deal. Capital Dynamics isn’t being probed by the
SEC, according to people familiar with the investigation.
Katharina Lichtner, a Capital Dynamics spokeswoman, declined to
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Robinson in San Francisco at 
 edrobinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Colby at 
 lcolby@bloomberg.net  