-- 
Democrats Plan Senate Test on Payroll Levy Cut With Surtax Added

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-11-29T05:01:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-28/senate-democrats-eye-3-25-millionaire-levy-to-extend-cut-in-payroll-tax.html
U.S. Senate Democrats are planning
to force a vote as early as this week on pairing a 3.25 percent
surtax on income over $1 million with an extension and expansion
of an expiring  payroll tax  cut.  The first vote on the $265 billion proposal will test
Democrats’ resolve to implement the largest part of President
Barack Obama’s jobs  plan  and Republicans’ willingness to block
that effort.  Senate leaders from both parties signaled yesterday that
the first attempt at passage would likely fail. Democrats
accused Republicans of trying to harm the economy to improve
their political prospects in the 2012 elections and said they
would hold repeated votes to make their point.  “The Republicans are giving themselves whiplash on the
issue of taxes,”  Charles Schumer  of  New York , the Senate’s
third-ranking Democrat, told reporters on a conference call.
“The public is starting to figure out that Republicans have one
position on taxes when it comes to the wealthy and another when
it comes to everybody else.”  If Congress doesn’t act, a 2 percentage point cut in the
payroll tax for workers will expire Dec. 31. The Democrats’
proposal would cut the 6.2 percent Social Security portion of
the payroll tax in half for workers, cut the employer portion in
half for companies on their first $5 million in wages and
eliminate the employer tax on certain wage growth.  Political Ploy  Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky
Republican, said the Democrats’ attempt to pair temporary tax
cuts with permanent tax increases was a political ploy rather
than a sincere attempt to pass legislation.  “We should do what we were sent here to do, and that means
more bill signings and fewer bus tours,” McConnell said,
alluding to Obama’s attempts to sell the jobs plan he proposed
in September.  Democrats control 53 votes in the 100-member Senate,
leaving them short of the 60 needed to overcome parliamentary
moves by Republicans that block legislation.  The 3.25 percent surtax would apply to modified adjusted
gross income over $1 million for single filers and married
couples filing taxes jointly. It would take effect in 2013,
according to a bill summary provided by  Senate Democrats .  Democrats could offer a smaller tax increase and still
cover the cost of their plan if they limited the payroll tax
proposal to an extension of the current rates.  Finding common ground by the end of the year could be
difficult, in part because Senate Republicans don’t appear to
have a common position yet.  Budget Cuts  Some, like  Lindsey Graham  of  South Carolina , want to extend
the payroll tax cut and offset it with budget cuts elsewhere. He
suggested cutting government waste.  Senator  Richard Lugar , an Indiana Republican, said he
wanted to offset a payroll cut extension while adopting a
fallback position that would allow the cost to be added to the
 budget deficit .  “If we cannot, ultimately I would favor extending it for
the sake of the economy recovering,” he said in an interview
yesterday.  Senator Mike Enzi, a Wyoming Republican, said he favored
letting the provision expire.  “I don’t think that’s created a single job,” he said
yesterday. “I think there are people who took advantage of it,
but I don’t think it created jobs.”  Economic Spur  Payroll tax cuts spur  consumer spending  and increase
employment, according to the  Congressional Budget Office .  The debate over the payroll tax cut continues the two
parties’ clashes over economic and fiscal policy. The payroll
tax-cut extension and expansion are part of Obama’s $447 billion
job-creation proposal.  The existing payroll tax cut is one of several items that
expire by the end of the year, including expanded unemployment
benefits, a delay in scheduled cuts in Medicare payments to
doctors, and miscellaneous tax breaks.  Michael Steel , a spokesman for House Speaker  John Boehner ,
an Ohio Republican, said in a statement that the proposal by
Senate Democrats would hurt businesses that report profits on
their owners’ individual tax returns.  “Republicans have said that extending the payroll tax
break is a potential area of common ground, but coupling it with
a job-killing tax hike on small businesses makes no sense
whatsoever,” Steel said yesterday. “It looks like Washington
Democrats are playing politics with American jobs -- again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  