-- 
Shirakawa Signals BOJ Stimulus Boost

-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 
2011-11-28T06:16:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-28/shirakawa-signals-boj-stimulus-boost.html
Bank of Japan (8301)  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa signaled the central bank’s preparedness to bolster
stimulus should  Europe ’s deepening sovereign-debt crisis pose a
larger risk to  Japan ’s economy and financial markets.  “In the current time of high uncertainty regarding the
future prospects of overseas economies, due attention is
necessary to the risk that the yen’s appreciation will dampen
future growth,” Shirakawa  said  today in Nagoya, central Japan.
“This is the very reason that the bank has embarked on monetary
easing measures twice since this summer.”  It is the third time in as many weeks that the governor has
spoken about the threat Europe’s debt woes pose on an economy
that is recovering from a record March earthquake. Some BOJ
board members said the risk to the Japanese economy has risen
since last month, Shirakawa told reporters following a Nov. 16
policy meeting.  “Governor Shirakawa has stepped up his caution about the
economy’s outlook because risks from Europe’s sovereign-debt
problem have become more apparent,” said  Hiroaki Muto , a senior
economist at Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management Co. in Tokyo.
“The bank will likely act again between early next year and
March by expanding its asset purchases, though it depends on
currency and stock market movements.”  The yen traded at 77.63 per dollar as of 3:02 p.m. in Tokyo
today. Authorities sold the currency on Oct. 31 after it touched
a postwar high of 75.35. Shirakawa today pledged to continue
"powerful monetary easing" and said at a press conference later
than global financial markets remain under "high strain."  No Safe Haven  “There is no reason that Japan should be regarded as a
safe haven,” given that it is tackling deflation and a growing
debt burden, Takehiko Nakao, vice finance minister for
international affairs, said at a forum in  Tokyo  today.  The BOJ expanded the total size of its credit and asset-
buying programs in March, August and October to 55 trillion yen
($708 billion). The fund is its main policy tool since lowering
the key  interest rate  close to zero.  “Japan’s economy is likely to continue to face a severe
situation for the time being, especially with respect to
exports,” the governor said.  Asked about the recent climb in government bond yields,
Shirakawa declined to comment, saying that the nation’s finances
were in a "very severe state" that policy makers need to
improve. The yield on the benchmark 10-year security touched
1.065 percent today, the highest since Sept. 2.  ‘Aggressively’ Adding Stimulus  Shirakawa said the BOJ has “aggressively” provided
stimulus, more than other major central banks.  A stronger currency threatens to erode exporters’ profits
and make Japanese goods less competitive overseas. While it can
lower import costs, the governor also said rapid yen gains may
compel companies to shift facilities overseas at a faster pace,
weighing on employment at home. Speaking to corporate leaders in
Nagoya today, home of companies including  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , he
said he is “fully aware” of the risks of an appreciating
currency.  “I’m fully aware of the possibility that the yen’s
appreciation has had a significant impact on the Japanese
economy overall, particularly the Nagoya region, which exports
many cars,” Shirakawa said. “Regarding this issue, I don’t
think there is any perception gap” between the central bank and
executives, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in Nagoya at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  