-- 
Slowing Canada Economy May Need Rate Cuts, Spending, OECD Says

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-11-28T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-28/slowing-canada-economy-may-need-rate-cuts-spending-oecd-says.html
Canada ’s economy is slowing because
of weaker foreign demand and may need new stimulus from the
central bank and government if things get worse, the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said.  Gross domestic product will grow 1.9 percent next year, the
Paris-based OECD predicted today, down from its May forecast for
a 2.8 percent expansion. The outlook for this year was pared to
2.2 percent from 3 percent in May, and it estimated 2013 growth
of 2.5 percent.  Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said last week he may offer
additional stimulus if required, adding the risks to the global
recovery from Europe’s debt crisis are increasing. Bank of
Canada Governor Mark Carney has kept his key  lending rate  at 1
percent since September 2010 and has said the economy won’t
fully recover until well into 2013.  “Output is projected to expand at a slow pace as exports
are restrained by sluggish external demand,” the OECD report
said. “Domestic spending should sustain growth but at a
moderate rate, as high debt and waning sentiment curb
consumption growth.”  Consumers may be discouraged from spending by debts that
are a  record  150 percent of disposable income and by a weak job
market marked by government cutbacks and slow private hiring,
the OECD said. Unemployment will be little changed next year at
7.3 percent from this year’s 7.4 percent according to the
report.  “Risks are skewed to the downside,” the OECD said, and if
they materialize “the  Bank of Canada  should ease monetary
policy via further interest rate cuts, which in a downside
scenario would be consistent with the inflation target.”  The Bank of Canada has predicted inflation will slow to 1
percent in the second quarter of next year from 2.7 percent this
quarter. The bank acts to keep inflation in the middle of a 1
percent to 3 percent band.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
 David Scanlan  at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 