-- 
Sony Seeks Sales Boost From Medical, Non-Consumer Electronics

-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 
2011-11-28T08:18:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-28/sony-to-raise-production-of-image-sensor-modules-in-smartphones-tablets.html
Sony Corp. (6758) , struggling to return to
profit after forecasting a fourth annual loss, intends to sell
more displays for medical equipment as it focuses on non-
consumer products including image sensors and batteries.  “With an aging society, demand for medical equipment will
increase,” Executive Vice President  Hiroshi Yoshioka  told
reporters in Tokyo today. The push is part of a plan to double
non-consumer product segments with sales of more than 100
billion yen ($1.3 billion) to 10 within five years, he said.  Chief Executive Officer  Howard Stringer  is seeking growth
drivers at Sony’s electronics businesses after declining prices
of televisions and a stronger yen eroded sales. The maker of
PlayStation video games and Vaio computers acquired Micronics
Inc. in September to accelerate research on health-care products
and unveiled an organic light-emitting diode display for medical
equipment at a trade show in  Japan  this month.  The electronics maker rose 2.3 percent to 1,363 yen at the
close of Tokyo trading. The stock has dropped 53 percent this
year, compared with a 19 percent decline for Japan’s benchmark
Nikkei 225 Stock Average.  Sony will also create a division for image-sensor modules
used in smartphones and tablet computers on Dec. 1.  After floods in Thailand halted image-sensor output at
factories in the country, production will be shifted to a plant
in Kumamoto, southwestern Japan, in the beginning of next year,
spokesman Hiroshi Okubo said.  The effect of the floods “wasn’t as bad” as the company
estimated three weeks ago, Yoshioka said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in  Tokyo  at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  