-- 
South Africa May Need to Cut Rates if Growth Continues to Slow, OECD Says

-- B y   J a n a   M a r a i s
-- 
2011-11-28T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-28/south-africa-may-need-to-cut-rates-if-growth-continues-to-slow-oecd-says.html
South Africa’s  Reserve Bank  may need
to cut  interest rates  if the economy’s recovery continues to
weaken, the  Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development  said.  Underlying inflation is “well anchored” inside the bank’s
3 percent to 6 percent target band, leaving room for a reduction
in rates even if the currency depreciates further, the Paris-
based OECD said in a report on its website today.  “The first line of defense if the economy is weaker than
projected should be monetary policy,” the OECD said. “In the
event of a weakening economy, there therefore appears to be
scope for further reductions in the Reserve Bank’s policy
rate.”  The central bank, led by Governor  Gill Marcus , has left its
 benchmark interest rate  unchanged at a 30-year low of 5.5
percent this year to help support the recovery in  Africa ’s
biggest economy, even as price pressures increased.  Inflation ,
which accelerated to the top of the target band in October, will
probably average 5.3 percent in 2012 and 4.7 percent in 2013,
according to OECD forecasts.  The rand slumped 21 percent against the dollar this year,
the worst performer of 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  “There is likely to be some pass through of that exchange
rate move to consumer prices, but the Reserve Bank should
continue to look through such temporary factors and may need to
ease further if demand growth continues to disappoint,” the
OECD said.  The worsening debt crisis in  Europe , which buys a third of
South African manufactured goods, may curb economic growth,
easing inflation pressure, the OECD said.  South Africa ’s economy
will probably expand 3.6 percent in 2012, up from 3.1 percent
this year, the OECD said.  The South African government is forecasting growth of 3.4
percent in 2012, less than half the 7 percent it says is needed
to slash the 25 percent  jobless rate  to 14 percent by 2020.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Marais in Johannesburg at 
 jmarais@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  