-- 
Swaps Signal a Subbarao Policy Reversal as Slowdown Deepens: India Credit

-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 
2011-11-29T05:13:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-28/swaps-signal-a-subbarao-policy-reversal-as-slowdown-deepens-india-credit.html
Reserve Bank of  India  Governor
Duvvuri Subbarao may reverse  Asia ’s steepest increase in
 interest rates  in the coming year as the third-largest
developing economy slows, money-market indicators show.  The fixed  payment  to lock in borrowing costs for a year
fell to 38 basis points below the central bank’s 8.5 percent
repurchase rate, showing swap traders are betting on monetary
easing, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Similar spreads were 45
basis points below benchmark rates in  China  and 180 in  Brazil ,
the two biggest emerging markets.  India’s economy  probably grew
6.8 percent last quarter, the least in two years, according to
the  median estimate  in a Bloomberg survey.  The Reserve Bank’s seven rate increases this year have
caused bond sales by Indian companies to drop 22 percent as
borrowing costs climb. Downgrades in corporate debt ratings are
approaching upgrades for the first time since 2009, after
earnings at 40 percent of firms in the benchmark  stock index 
missed analysts’ estimates in the past quarter.  “The RBI will be required to reverse its monetary stance
to avoid a hard landing,” Vivek Rajpal, a fixed-income
strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc., Japan’s biggest brokerage,
said in an interview on Nov. 28. “Growth is likely to slow
further due to the impact of monetary tightening and headwinds
from weakening demand in advanced countries.”  International investors pulled $798 million out of India’s
 bonds  and  stocks  this month as banks including Morgan Stanley
and Macquarie Group Ltd. cut forecasts for the nation’s economic
growth, fueling the rupee’s tumble to a record low of 52.73 per
dollar on Nov. 22. Local-currency notes underperformed debt
across the region this year, returning 2.9 percent, compared
with the 16.1 percent earned by Indonesian securities, according
to indexes compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc.  Emerging Outliers  Subbarao is the only policy maker in the biggest  emerging
markets  who increased borrowing costs this quarter, even as
Europe’s debt crisis worsened.  The governor last raised the  repo rate  by 25 basis points,
or 0.25 percentage point, on Oct. 25, taking the total increase
since March 2010 to a record 375, the steepest surge among
Asia’s 10 biggest economies.  Brazil ’s central bank has cut its
 Selic rate  by a total 100 basis points since August to 11.5
percent, while Bank  Indonesia  lowered its  reference rate  by 75
since Sept. 30 to 6 percent.  The probability of another increase to the repo rate when
policy makers next meet in December is “relatively low,” the
central bank said last month, forecasting  inflation  will slow to
7 percent by March from 9.73 percent in October. Gains in the
benchmark wholesale-price index will start slowing from this
month, Chakravarthy Rangarajan, chairman of Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh ’s Economic Advisory Council, said in Hyderabad,
central-eastern India yesterday.  ‘Peaking of Cycle’  “If we do see inflation rates coming off as we expect, we
could be looking at the peaking of the cycle,”  Reserve Bank 
Deputy Governor Subir Gokarn said on Nov. 11, referring to the
monetary authority’s policy outlook. “Let me emphasize it’s a
guidance, not a commitment. There are many risks to that
scenario.”  Monetary easing will push the average worldwide central
bank interest rate, weighted for gross domestic product, to 1.79
percent by next June from 2.16 percent in September, the largest
drop in two years, according to data and projections compiled by
JPMorgan Chase & Co., which tracks 31 central banks. The number
of authorities loosening credit is the most since the third
quarter of 2009, when 15 institutions cut rates, the data show.  ‘Start Cutting Rates’  The cost of one-year swap contracts has remained below
three-month rates since August. The difference widened by 19
basis points this month to 48 below the rate as economic data
added to evidence the $1.7 trillion economy is slowing. The
three-month swap is at 8.60 percent and the one-year contract at
8.11 percent.  “Swap spreads indicate we are at the peak of the policy-
rate cycle,” said Nagaraj Kulkarni, a Mumbai-based fixed-income
strategist at Standard Chartered Plc. “We expect the RBI to
start cutting rates in the April-June quarter of next year.”  Ten-year government  bond yields  have retreated 14 basis
points from a three-year high of 8.97 percent reached on Nov.
14, on speculation the RBI is close to halting rate increases.
The yield on the 8.79 percent security due 2021 was little
changed at 8.83 percent today. The  extra yield  demanded on the
Indian bonds over similar-dated  U.S. debt  has narrowed to 684
basis points, from a 12-year high of 697 touched on Nov. 9.  Default Swaps  The average cost for credit-default swaps insuring against
non-payment on the debt of seven Indian companies has dropped 25
basis points this quarter to 416 basis points, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in privately negotiated markets. The
swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a nation or company
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  India’s  factory output  rose 1.9 percent in September from a
year earlier, the smallest advance in two years, official data
showed on Nov. 11. Merchandise exports grew 10.8 percent in
October from a year earlier, the least since 2009, as waning
demand in  Europe  cut orders, Commerce Secretary  Rahul Khullar 
said on Nov. 8. The RBI last month reduced its forecast for
economic growth in the year ending March 31 to 7.6 percent, from
8 percent.  As Bad as 2008  “We expect further significant deceleration in domestic
demand and a slowdown in exports are likely to take GDP growth
lower,”  Chetan Ahya , a Hong Kong-based economist at Morgan
Stanley, said yesterday. “The coming growth slowdown is going
to be as deep as during the credit crisis” of 2008, he said.  New York-based Morgan Stanley cut its growth estimate for
India yesterday to 7 percent from 7.2 percent for the year to
March. Nomura Holdings,  Japan ’s biggest brokerage, lowered its
forecast in October to 7.2 percent from 7.7 percent.  Increases in debt ratings for companies by Crisil Ltd., the
Indian unit of  Standard & Poor’s , fell to 12 for every 10 cuts,
the worst ratio since the same period of 2009, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Credit downgrades may accelerate in the rest of
the year to March on increased funding costs and a slowdown in
demand, according to Crisil and Mumbai-based ratings provider
Credit Analysis & Research Ltd.  Subbarao may delay any pause in monetary tightening as the
rupee’s 14 percent tumble this year, the worst performance among
Asian currencies, fuels inflation by making imports costlier,
according to Dun & Bradstreet Information Services India Pvt.
The rupee was little changed at 51.95 per dollar today.  ‘Reignite’ Inflation  “The sharp slide in the rupee threatens to reignite
inflation pressures and will make it difficult for the Reserve
Bank to stop tightening,” Arun Singh, a Mumbai-based senior
economist at Dun & Bradstreet, said in an interview yesterday.
“The RBI has to walk a tight rope with growth slowing and
inflation still holding near double digits.”  Singh predicts that the central bank will boost the repo
rate by 25 basis points to 8.75 percent at the Dec. 16 policy
meeting.  “The slowdown message is likely to be loud and clear when
we receive the latest GDP data,” Jay Shankar, Mumbai-based
chief economist at Religare Capital Markets Ltd. said in an
interview yesterday. “The growth slowdown will call for a pause
in the RBI’s tightening cycle even though the sharp drop in the
rupee is likely to put short-term pressure on inflation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  