-- 
Syria Says Sanctions Are ‘Economic War’ as UN Reports Abuses

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 
2011-11-29T14:27:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-28/syria-says-sanctions-signal-an-economic-war-as-un-decries-rights-abuses.html
Syrian Foreign Minister Walid al- Muallem called the  Arab League ’s sanctions against his country a
declaration of “economic war” as a  United Nations  human-rights
panel said Syrian forces had committed crimes against humanity.  The unprecedented measures adopted by the bloc Nov. 27,
including a freeze on Syrian assets and a travel ban on senior
officials in President Bashar al-Assad’s government, will have
no impact on day-to-day life, though they may affect some luxury
goods, Muallem told reporters yesterday in Damascus. Iraq and
Lebanon, two of Syria’s largest trading partners, and Jordan
probably won’t implement the sanctions, he said.  “These sanctions are symbolic, and symbolism is important
but not decisive,” Chibli Mallat, a Lebanese lawyer and
visiting professor at Harvard Law School in Cambridge,
 Massachusetts , said by telephone. “They will lead to grave
economic problems for  Syria , but like all sanctions they are by
nature overbroad, and cannot be decisive on the security side.”  Assad faces growing economic and political pressure to end
a crackdown against protesters that began in mid-March, inspired
by movements that toppled leaders in Tunisia, Egypt and  Libya .
The violence has moved Syria closer to a civil war as military
personnel defect and take up arms against the government.  Arab League Approach  Germany  supports the Arab League’s approach and wants a
quick UN resolution on Syria,  Chancellor Angela Merkel  told
reporters in Berlin today after talks with Jordan’s King Abdullah.  “The implications of what’s going on are alarming,
especially on a humanitarian level,” King Abdullah said.  Turkey  is not thinking of cutting electricity supplies to
Syria due to humanitarian considerations, Energy Minister  Taner Yildiz  told reporters in Ankara today. Turkey is planning to
shift its trade routes to the  Middle East  if the unrest in Syria
worsens and embargoes go into effect, Minister of Transportation
Binali Yildirim said.  Turkish trucking that would have taken southern routes
through Syria will use Iraqi roads instead as new crossing
points are opened on the border with Iraq, Yildirim said today
in televised comments from Ankara. The minister said Turkey and
 Egypt  had been in talks to set up a Mediterranean shipping line
to carry vehicles before the Syria crisis and are working to
establish trips.  Crimes Against Humanity  The UN Human Rights Council’s independent  commission of
inquiry  yesterday said its probe found that Syrian military and
security forces had committed “gross violations of human
rights.” The commission, which interviewed 223 “victims and
witnesses,” said it is “gravely concerned that crimes against
humanity have been committed” throughout Syria.  At least 256 children have been killed by Syrian
authorities, according to the UN report. Sexual torture of male
detainees is described in “several testimonies” in the UN
report, including the rape of a boy in front of his father.  Still, the  International Criminal Court  can’t begin an
investigation without a referral from the UN Security Council,
according to Richard Dicker, director of New York-based Human
Rights Watch’s international justice program.  ‘Beyond Paralysis’  “The reference to crimes against humanity increases the
urgency that the council gets beyond its paralysis,” he said.  Russia and  China , in the first double veto since 2008,
blocked an Oct. 4 draft resolution that called for Assad to halt
the crackdown that began in March and, by UN estimates, has
killed more than 3,500 people. Human-rights activists put the
figure at more than 4,500.  The action by the Arab League, imposed after Syria refused
to admit Arab observers, and the release of the report may
embolden the U.S. and the Europeans on the UN’s most powerful
body to revive efforts to impose sanctions on Assad’s regime.  “We think it’s time to revisit the question about what
might be possible here in  New York ,” U.S. Ambassador Susan Rice
told reporters yesterday. It has become “increasingly clear,
even for those that would rather deny it, that the Assad regime
has participated in outrageous and now well-documented
atrocities” and that “the patience of its neighbors as well as
the larger international community is evaporated,” she said.  German Ambassador to the UN Peter Wittig, whose country is
among the 15 UN Security Council members, said the body "cannot
stand idly by.’’  Financial Transactions  The Arab League measures, which follow U.S. and European
sanctions, will also halt dealings with the Syrian central bank,
Qatari Prime Minister Sheikh Hamad Bin Jasim Bin Jaber Al Thani
told reporters Nov. 27 in Cairo. The Arab League banned
financial transactions and trade with the Syrian government,
excluding basic commodities, he said. The sanctions aim to
target officials and aren’t intended to hurt the Syrian people,
he said.  “Syria’s economy is already falling apart,” Peter
Harling, a Damascus-based analyst with the  International Crisis
Group , a conflict-resolution advisory organization, said by
phone. “There is a shortage of cooking gas and heating oil,
medicine, milk powder, and you have power cuts even in the
capital, Damascus.”  Harling said the government is failing to protect the
currency and that “the economic situation is already dire, and
this isn’t having a noticeable political impact or bringing the
regime closer to compromise.”  Growth Predictions  Adib Mayaleh, governor of the Central Bank of Syria, said
in an interview last month his country had spent about $3
billion defending its currency and financing trade since the
start of the uprising.  Syria’s $60 billion economy, which grew 5.5 percent in
2010, may shrink 2 percent this year, according to the
 International Monetary Fund , or at least 5 percent, according to
the Institute of International Finance. The government expects
growth of 1 percent, Finance Minister Mohammad Al-Jleilati said
in September.  “There is a lot of resentment at the fact that the regime
has allowed itself to be isolated in an unprecedented way,”
Harling said. “Now the regime, in the eyes of most Syrians, is
to blame for this situation, but over time the people could turn
and put the blame on the sponsors of sanctions.”  Muallem also said a new constitution that is being
considered to end the unrest won’t give Assad’s Baath party a
monopoly on political power.  Iraq , Lebanon Abstain  The economic sanctions are the first the Arab League has
imposed on a member state since its formation in 1945. In 1979,
the league suspended Egypt’s membership after President Anwar Sadat signed a peace agreement with  Israel . It reinstated the
North African nation in 1989.  Syrian neighbors Iraq and Lebanon abstained from voting
yesterday.  The most effective way to weaken Assad is to surrender the
keys of these embassies to the opposition Syrian National
Council, which can then start offering tangible, decent
alternatives to Assad’s rule, Harvard Law’s Mallat said.  The Syrian National Council posted a statement on its
Facebook page calling the sanctions “a defeat for the Syrian
regime and an important step to isolate it and stop the supplies
that feed its criminal war against peaceful protesters.”  Economic Isolation  Assad, who inherited power from his father in 2000, has
moved to ease Syria’s economic isolation and encourage foreign
investment. He had encouraged private industry in Syria’s state-
dominated economy to provide long-term financing for development
and economic reforms.  “Syria is a trading nation and they are natural
capitalists,” said  Andrew Tabler , a Syria analyst at the
Washington Institute for Near East Policy. “The businessmen in
that country will never tolerate being cut off to such a degree.
This move will get the business elite off the fence and against
the regime.”  Banque Saudi Fransi (BSFR) , a Saudi lender part-owned by  Credit
Agricole SA (ACA) , said on Nov. 26 that it will sell its 27 percent
stake in the Bemo Saudi Fransi Syria bank, citing “the
financial risks” in the country.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut, Lebanon at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net ;
Flavia Krause-Jackson at the United Nations at 
0503 or  fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  