-- 
U.S. Outlook Cut to Negative by Fitch After Committee Fails

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-11-29T06:01:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-28/u-s-rating-outlook-cut-to-negative-by-fitch-after-deficit-committee-fails.html
The U.S. lost its last stable
outlook from the three biggest credit-ranking companies after
 Fitch Ratings  lowered the nation to negative following a
congressional committee’s failure to agree on  deficit  cuts.  Fitch’s outlook on the U.S., which it still assigns its top
AAA grade, reflects “declining confidence that timely fiscal
measures necessary to place U.S. public finances on a
sustainable path will be forthcoming,” making the probability
of a downgrade greater than 50 percent over two years, the
company said yesterday in a statement. Standard & Poor’s and
Moody’s Investors Service said Nov. 21 that the so-called
supercommittee’s inability to reach an agreement didn’t merit
downgrades because the inaction will trigger $1.2 trillion in
automatic spending cuts.  U.S. government debt  rallied the most since the end of 2008
during the third quarter after Standard & Poor’s stripped the U.S.
of its AAA ranking on Aug. 5, while global equities lost 
$9.7 trillion in market value during that period. Even with
lawmakers reluctant to embrace the automatic cutbacks that helped
prevent downgrades, President  Barack Obama  has pledged to veto
any efforts to undermine the spending reductions.  “There’s a much broader recognition out there that you
can’t just cut discretionary spending, you have to actually cut
into the meat and bone of the programs driving the deficit,”
Noel Hebert, a credit strategist at Mitsubishi UFJ Securities
USA Inc. in New York, said yesterday in a telephone interview.
Fitch is “catching up to the dysfunction that’s been widely
perceived by the American electorate for the last decade.”  Treasuries Outperform  Treasuries have returned 3.8 percent through yesterday
since S&P made its rating cut, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes. German bunds gained 1.9 percent, Japanese
bonds rose 0.1 percent, and U.S. corporate debt handed investors
a 0.4 percent loss, the indexes show.  The MSCI All Country World  Index  dropped 6 percent, and the
 Standard & Poor’s  GSCI Total Return  Index (MXWD)  of commodities was
little changed.  Treasuries due in 10 years and more have returned almost 28
percent in 2011, the most among 144 bond indexes compiled by
Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies after accounting for changes in currency rates.  Debt to GDP  The 10-year yield rose three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 2.01 percent as of 2:53 p.m. in  Tokyo ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index rose 2.9 percent yesterday.  The supercommittee’s failure was “a missed opportunity,”
 David Riley , Fitch’s head of sovereign ratings in  London , said
yesterday in a telephone interview. “The scale of any
subsequent budget cuts are probably going to have to be larger
than they otherwise would have been and certainly implemented in
faster manner.”  U.S. federal debt held by the public will exceed 90 percent
of gross domestic product by the end of the decade, while
interest on the debt will require more than 20 percent of  tax
revenue , Fitch said. Gross debt, including local and state
governments, will climb to 110 percent of GDP during that span,
a level that “would no longer be consistent with the U.S.
retaining its ‘AAA’ status,” the firm said.  Deficit Reduction  A failure by Congress to agree on a “credible deficit
reduction plan” combined with a “worsening” economic and
fiscal outlook would likely result in the U.S. being stripped up
its AAA ranking, the rating company said.  “Fitch’s action is a reminder of the need for Congress to
reduce the country’s long-term deficit in a balanced manner and
to avoid efforts that would undo the $1.2 trillion in automatic
cuts negotiated last summer,”  Colleen Murray , a Treasury
Department spokeswoman in  Washington , said yesterday.‬  The 12-member bipartisan committee, created in August by
the Budget Control Act that raised the U.S. debt ceiling,
reached an impasse amid Democrats’ opposition to reductions in
programs such as Medicare and Republicans’ reluctance to
increases in tax revenue.  “Further  deficit reduction  will not be credible if it
relies solely on further cuts in discretionary spending rather
than reform to entitlements and taxation,” Fitch said.  The panel’s implosion is likely to delay any major deficit-
reduction agreement until after the next presidential election
and may pose an immediate threat to the struggling U.S. economy.
The lack of a deal means several tax programs, including a
payroll tax holiday, risk expiring at the beginning of next
year, weighing on the household spending that accounts for about
70 percent of the world’s largest economy.  Reserve Currency  The dollar’s role as a reserve currency is among the
reasons Fitch affirmed the U.S.’s AAA rating, Riley said. “That
does provide a tremendous amount of financial flexibility for
the U.S.,” he said.  “We’re waiting for a plan to be presented,” Riley said.
“Our expectations are that we won’t get substantial fiscal
reform this side of congressional and presidential elections.”  The U.S. downgrade to AA+ from AAA by S&P followed months
of political gridlock about deficit cuts as the government
almost reached its borrowing limit. The rating company slammed
the country’s political process and criticized lawmakers.  New York-based S&P’s August decision was flawed by a $2
trillion error, according to the Treasury Department. S&P
disputed the Treasury’s assertions and said using the
department’s preferred spending measures in its analysis didn’t
affect its credit grade. S&P was criticized by Obama and
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. Chairman  Warren Buffett , who said the
U.S. should have been upgraded to “quadruple-A.”  Marketable Debt  The $1.3 trillion  U.S. budget deficit  in the fiscal year
ended Sept. 30 was about 8.7 percent of gross domestic product,
the third-largest percentage in the past 65 years, exceeded only
by the deficits in 2009 and 2010, according to Treasury
statistics. U.S. marketable debt outstanding has doubled to
about $9.7 trillion since the end of 2007 as tax receipts
plunged and the government boosted spending amid the worst
recession since the Great Depression.  “It’s certainly a hit to  market sentiment  and confidence
that nothing was done,”  Eric Stein , a  money manager  in  Boston 
at Eaton Vance Management, which oversees $203 billion, said
Nov. 21 of the supercommittee’s failure. “It’s one more piece
of bad news in addition to the other bad news that the market’s
been digesting.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  