-- 
Urban Meyer Returns From Yearlong Hiatus to Succeed Tressel at Ohio State

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-11-29T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-28/urban-meyer-accepts-head-football-coaching-job-at-ohio-state-espn-reports.html
Urban Meyer took a year off from
coaching and said it was precisely the perspective he needed,
shifting focus back to family and his health after winning two
national championships at the University of  Florida .  Meyer, 47, was introduced yesterday as Ohio State
University’s new head football coach, returning to his home
state and the school at which he began his college coaching
career in 1986 under Earle Bruce.  Meyer led Florida to a 65-15 record over six seasons and
won two national titles before stepping down in 2010 because of
health concerns. After spending the past year as a college
football analyst for ESPN, he returns to coaching after making
promises to his elder daughter to pay more attention to his
health and strike a better balance between football and family.  “I had time to reflect and I feel fantastic now,” Meyer,
who coached at Florida from 2005 to 2010, said during a news
conference in Columbus,  Ohio . “I took that opportunity to do
two things: Get my health right and spend time with family.”  Meyer replaces  Jim Tressel , who resigned six months ago for
his handling of a memorabilia scandal involving some of the
Buckeyes’ top players.  Meyer was introduced two days after Ohio State finished a
6-6 regular season with its first loss to rival  Michigan  since
2003. Tressel went 106-22 in 10 seasons with the Buckeyes and
won a national title in 2002.  Meyer has a 104-23 record over 10 seasons as a coach at
Florida, the University of Utah and  Bowling Green . He won
national titles with the Gators during the 2006 and 2008 seasons,
with a win over Ohio State for the first championship.  Missed Coaching  “If it was but for the opportunity at the  Ohio State
University , I would not have coached again this year,” Meyer
said. “A year ago, in my mind, I was convinced I was done
coaching. I didn’t realize I’d miss it so bad.”  Meyer said he remains close to Bruce, who spoke at his
father’s funeral a week ago.  “My relationship with him is extremely close, second only
to my father,” said Meyer, who added that he also has a photo
of former Ohio State coach Woody Hayes in his home. “Every step
of my career, every part of my family life, Coach Bruce has
always been there.”  Meyer signed a six-year contract that will pay him a salary
of $4 million per year and bonuses, according to a statement
released by the school. That will include base compensation of
$700,000 annually, as well as $1.85 million for media,
promotions and public relations and $1.4 million in
apparel/shoe/equipment payments.  Retention bonuses would be paid every two years and the
performance pay would be based on the academic as well as
athletic success of his players, including $250,000 for winning
a national championship.  Fickell to Stay  “He is, without a shadow of a doubt, one of the premier
leaders in football,” Ohio State Athletic Director  Gene Smith 
said at the news conference. “It’s represented in his record
but, more importantly, it’s represented in him, the man.”  Meyer said Luke Fickell will remain on his coaching staff.
Fickell has been interim coach since Tressel resigned in late
May during a scandal over the trading of uniforms and other
memorabilia at a tattoo parlor by players, including quarterback
Terrelle Pryor. Fickell led the Buckeyes to a 3-5 mark in the
 Big Ten Conference  this season.  Smith said the school would accept a bowl game invitation
if the  National Collegiate Athletic Association  allows it, and
that Fickell would coach that game.  NCAA Probe  The NCAA has yet to finish assessing penalties for the
football team related to the scandal. Tressel resigned after it
came to light that he had kept information about his players’
infractions from school administrators for more than nine months.  “I don’t think it’s broke,” Meyer said of the Ohio State
football program. “There were some obvious mistakes made in the
grand scheme of things, mistakes that were correctable.”  During Meyer’s time at Florida, 25 football players were
arrested a combined 31 times on charges ranging from misdemeanor
possession of alcohol by a person under the age of 21 to felony
burglary, according to the  Orlando Sentinel , which tracked the
arrests.  “We did not have bad guys,” Meyer said yesterday. “Did
they make stupid mistakes? Yeah. I’ve made a few stupid mistakes.
We’re going to correct them. We’re going to go really hard and
try to recruit really good people to represent Ohio State.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net 
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 