-- 
Vale Plans to Tap Debt Markets Next Year After Upgrade

-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   S i m o n   C a s e y
-- 
2011-11-29T23:29:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-28/vale-cfo-plans-to-tap-debt-markets-next-year-after-upgrade.html
(Corrects time frame for Ebitda data in 15th paragraph.)  Vale SA (VALE3) , the world’s largest iron-
ore producer, said it will tap debt markets in 2012 after
Standard & Poor’s raised its  credit rating  last week.  The company is analyzing credit-market conditions because
the European debt crisis hasn’t been “very helpful,” Chief
Financial Officer Tito Martins said yesterday in an interview in
 New York  after the company presented its 2012 investment plan.
Vale’s upgrade to A- from BBB+ by S&P on Nov. 23 came at “a
very good time” because the mining company has “huge”
investments planned, Martins said.  “We will be in the market in the next year, I don’t have
any doubt about that,” Martins said, adding that the company
hasn’t yet decided on the size and timing of any potential
issuance. “We have consistently accessed the market from time
to time.”  Vale  plans to invest $21.4 billion in 2012 in projects that
will boost the output of commodities including iron ore and
copper, it said yesterday. The company based in Rio de Janeiro
forecasts 2011 spending will be between $18.5 billion and $19
billion, down from the $24 billion previously planned.
Environmental licensing and labor constraints are creating
“hurdles” for its expansion projects, Vale said yesterday.  The company last sold bonds in September 2010, Bloomberg
data show. BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s biggest mining
company, sold $3 billion in three-, five- and 10-year notes on
Nov. 16, its first bond issuance since 2009.  Lower Financing Costs  Vale has the flexibility and balance sheet to wait for the
best moment and issue debt when it can guarantee lower financing
costs, Jordi Dominguez, an equity analyst at  Societe Generale  SA
in New York, said in a telephone interview yesterday.  “I don’t expect anything outside the normal course of
business for Vale,” said Dominguez, who has a “buy”
recommendation on the  stock. (VALE5)   Vale dropped 1.6 percent to 38.85 reais in  Sao Paulo . The
stock has fallen about 20 percent during 2011, in line with the
decline in the Brazilian benchmark Bovespa  Index. (IBOV)  BHP lost 23
percent in  Melbourne  during the period.  Vale paid a record $12 billion to shareholders through
dividends and share buybacks this year, boosting capital returns
after postponing its investment plan. The company regards its
organic growth projects as a “priority” and finding possible
acquisitions is “not easy” given current asset valuations,
Vale Chief Executive Officer Murilo Ferreira said yesterday in
New York.  ‘Huge Discipline’  “I have a huge discipline in capital allocation,”
Ferreira said. “The most important thing for us is to provide
the right return to our shareholders.”  Ferreira, 58, who took over as CEO on May 22, wants to be
more accountable and transparent and is showing a “conservative
approach” with  capital expenditures , Societe Generale’s
Dominguez said.  “While we still anticipate that Vale will maintain an
aggressive investment budget over the next five years, we
believe that the company is adopting a more prudent -- and
therefore less risky -- expansion plan,”  Standard & Poor’s 
analyst Milena Zaniboni said in a Nov. 23 statement on Vale’s
credit rating revision.  Expensive Deals  Recent prices paid for some mining assets have been too
expensive, CFO Martins said. Vale shouldn’t compete with Chinese
companies who pay “too much,” he said. Vale dropped out of the
bidding for Johannesburg-based Metorex Ltd. in July after
 China ’s Jinchuan Group Ltd. trumped its offer with a $1.36
billion bid.  “Multiples that we have seen in the markets, they have
been too high,” Martins said.  Jinchuan is paying 34 times Metorex’s earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization, or Ebitda, in the
year ended June 30, 2009, the most recent 12 months for which
finalized financial statements were available when the deal was
announced, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Chinese
company is paying 7.7 times Metorex’s Ebtida for the 12 months
through June 30, 2010.  The median multiple from takeovers of seven comparable
diversified mining companies in the past five years was 9.4,
according to the data.  The price of  iron-ore  for immediate delivery to China, the
largest user, has  fallen  22 percent during 2011 and reached its
lowest level in almost two years on Oct. 28 amid tighter credit
conditions in the country and higher seasonal supply.  Iron ore with 62 percent iron content delivered to the
Chinese port of Tianjin dropped 0.9 percent to $130.80 a metric
ton today, its lowest level in three weeks, according to The
Steel Index Ltd.  Prices won’t decline to less than $120 a ton next year
“even in a stress scenario” because lower levels will put some
Chinese and international producers out of business, Jose Carlos Martins, Vale’s director for iron ore and strategy, said during
yesterday’s presentation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Casey in New York at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net 
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at o
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  