-- Ackman-Like Activism Spurs Agrium, SNC Rallies
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a   a n d   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2013-02-13T21:04:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/ackman-like-activism-spurs-agrium-snc-rallies-corporate-canada.html
Shareholder activism is growing in
Canada as investors including  William Ackman  and West Face
Capital Inc. demand management changes that are leading to
higher share prices.  Targets including  Agrium Inc .,  Canadian Pacific Railway
Ltd . and  SNC-Lavalin Group Inc . have rallied after minority
investors sought to shake up management to boost earnings or
spin off businesses.  “Post-Ackman, there has been a feeling among activists in
Canada that it is open-season on Canadian companies and
activists have been emboldened,”  Walied Soliman , a partner at
Norton Rose LLP, said in a phone interview from Toronto. “We’re
seeing an increasing amount of Canadian-based activism. I think
we are going to see more of it.”  There were 42 cases of shareholder activism among Canadian
firms last year, almost double the 22 a year earlier, according
to  Kingsdale Shareholder Services Inc. , the firm involved in 85
percent of the country’s proxy battles. An even larger number of
investor fights may erupt this year, with more challenges led by
domestic investors rather than U.S. shareholders, said Kingsdale
Chief Executive Officer  Wes Hall .  “There is a ton of opportunity here,” Hall said in a
telephone interview from Toronto. “Canadian investors are just
waking up to the fact that we need to play in our backyard.”  Canada, the world’s 11th-largest economy, has had fewer
proxy battles than the U.S. in part because fewer institutional
investors own large blocks of company stock, said  Jeffrey Gandz ,
a professor of strategic leadership at the Richard Ivey School
of Business in London, Ontario. That makes it more difficult for
dissident investors to buy influential positions, he said.  ‘It Pays’  “If it’s happening more, it’s probably because it pays,”
Gandz said in a telephone interview.  Agrium, the Calgary-based fertilizer maker, has risen 18
percent since Aug. 13, 2012, the day before a report that New
York-based hedge fund Jana Partners LLC pressed the company to
spin off its farm-supply retail network and suggested a slate of
directors. The farm retailer gained 45 percent last year,
compared with a 25 percent decline the previous year.  “We just look for undervalued companies who have a variety
of ways to unlock that value, no matter where they are
located,”  Barry Rosenstein , managing partner of Jana Partners,
said in an e-mail yesterday. “While this is our first real
foray into Canada, we’ve found that shareholders are just as
supportive of value-unlocking change there as they are in the
U.S., and we’re confident we’ve got the support we need to
win.”  Not Immune  Canadian Pacific Railway  has soared 54 percent since May
17, when Ackman won a proxy campaign to install new management
and improve the operating ratio of the Calgary-based railroad.
That compares with a 6.7 percent increase in 2011 and 14 percent
in 2010.  Ackman’s battle with  Canadian Pacific  showed Canadian
shareholders that activism can go to the final stages and
benefit the stock, Kingsdale’s Hall said. Before this case,
Canadians were timid, producing “significantly less” activism
than the U.S., he said.  “No company is immune to activism,” Hall said. “Their
size, performance, doesn’t matter.”  Moody’s Investors Service said in a report today
“activists are increasingly setting their sights on larger
targets,” allocating more capital towards such strategies.  West Face Capital is one Canadian firm that’s joining the
trend. The Toronto-based fund increased its stake in SNC-
Lavalin, the Montreal-based construction firm that’s suffered
from a corruption scandal.  Met Officials  Leslie Quinton , a spokeswoman for SNC, confirmed via e-mail
that the company learned late last year about West Face’s stake.
SNC-Lavalin doesn’t know how large the holding is because only
those that exceed 10 percent must be reported, she said, adding
that company executives have met with West Face officials.  West Face also bought shares in  Safeway Inc ., the U.S.
grocery chain that operates in Canada, and Calgary-based energy
producer Talisman Inc., the Globe and Mail reported last week.
Teena Massingill, a spokeswoman for Safeway Inc., did not
respond to a voicemail and e-mail seeking comment.  “I don’t dismiss activist investors at all,”  Hal Kvisle ,
CEO of Talisman, said in a phone interview from Calgary. “We’re
very interested in the messages they send us and we listen --
these are very smart people.” The company “has heard from”
three or four activist shareholders on ideas including spinning
off the Southeast Asia unit, Kvisle said. The majority of
Talisman shareholders are not activists, and that many
shareholders “have some sympathies” for the activists.  West Face  Greg Boland , CEO of West Face, declined to comment when
contacted by Bloomberg News yesterday. Boland won a board seat
at  Maple Leaf Foods Inc.  in 2011 after pushing for changes at
the Toronto-based food company. Maple Leaf has  risen  19 percent
in the past 12 months, compared with a 3 percent gain in the
Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index. West Face is the second-
largest investor in Maple Leaf, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  “We’re going to see more shareholder-driven activism in
Canada this year; this is a growing trend,” said  Robert Staley ,
a partner at the Bennett Jones law firm in Toronto. “This
should increase the share prices of companies targeted.”  Some of Canada’s largest pension funds have traditionally
been catalysts for change at Canadian firms, including the
Caisse de Depot et Placement du Quebec.  The Montreal-based pension fund and Invesco Canada Ltd.
pressed home-improvement retailer Rona Inc. last month to make a
series of board changes that included the hiring of a new
executive chairman. Rona, which rejected a hostile bid from
Lowe’s Cos. last year, has  soared  31 percent in the past 12
months.  ‘Economic Tourists’  “The vast majority of investors are no longer citizens,
but economic tourists,”  Michael Sabia , the Caisse’s chief
executive officer told reporters in Montreal last month. “We
are very comfortable with giving a CEO four or five years to
reposition a company. It’s so difficult to do this nowadays due
to the ’short-termism’ and the volatility in markets.”  Norton Rose’s Soliman, who has advised companies including
Viterra Inc. and Telus Corp., said activists who are looking to
copy Ackman should exercise caution “before they jump into the
lion’s den, because they will most certainly get hurt if they’re
not careful.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net ;
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  