-- Malaysia PM Lobbied Canada on Petronas Bid for Progress
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a   a n d   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-02-13T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/malaysia-pm-lobbied-canada-on-petronas-bid-for-progress.html
Malaysian Prime Minister  Najib Razak 
asked his Canadian counterpart  Stephen Harper  to reverse the
initial rejection of  Petroliam Nasional Bhd .’s C$5.2 billion
($5.2 billion) takeover of Progress Energy Resources Corp.,
correspondence between the two leaders shows.  Najib wrote to Harper promising that Petronas, as the
country’s state-owned oil company is known, would invest C$68
billion to C$70 billion over 30 years to develop the natural gas
reserves of Calgary-based Progress, according to a Nov. 2 letter
obtained by Bloomberg News under Canada’s freedom-of-information
law.  Najib expressed concern about the rejection and reassured
Harper that the Malaysian government “does not interfere with
the commercial decisions and operation” of Petronas, the
documents show.  The diplomatic intervention shows the need for financial
commitments and political hurdles facing foreign companies
looking to acquire energy assets in Canada, home to the world’s
third largest oil reserves and the third-largest supply of
natural gas.  Canada initially blocked the Petronas offer on Oct. 19,
saying it didn’t provide the “net benefit” to the country that
its foreign-takeover law requires. Harper reversed the decision
Dec. 7, at the same time he approved Beijing-based  Cnooc Ltd .’s
$15.1 billion acquisition of  Nexen Inc .  Najib dispatched one of his cabinet ministers,  Idris Jala ,
for a Nov. 7 meeting with Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty 
and Foreign Affairs Minister  John Baird , according to a memo to
Harper stamped “secret” from his top public servant, Wayne
Wouters.  Final Hurdle  Petronas closed its acquisition of Progress on Dec. 18.
Cnooc, China’s biggest oil and gas producer, yesterday won
approval to acquire Nexen’s U.S. assets, the last regulatory
hurdle in the purchase.  The Malaysian government helped make the case that
Petronas, which publishes quarterly financial results, operates
in a similar way to publicly traded companies, said  Michael Culbert , chief executive officer of Progress Energy Canada Ltd.  “What Petronas really put forward was that not all SOEs
really are exactly the same,” Culbert said in a telephone
interview from Calgary yesterday. “Their plans for  Progress
Energy  are to have Progress have Canadian management and a fair
amount of autonomy.”  Jala wasn’t immediately available for comment when phoned
on a public holiday in Malaysia yesterday. A spokesman for
Petronas,  Azman Ibrahim , didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail
seeking comment.  Carl Vallee, a spokesman for Harper, declined to comment on
the letters and referred to Harper’s Dec. 7 statement.  ‘Exceptional Circumstances’  In approving the Petronas and Cnooc deals, Harper said
that, under new rules for acquisitions by state-owned
enterprises, his government would only approve further
acquisitions of oil-sands operations under “exceptional
circumstances.”  Canada will consider “free-enterprise principles” and
“industry efficiency” in reviewing such deals, Harper said in
a letter to Najib written after the Petronas offer was approved,
documents show.  Formal commitments made by foreign acquirers to invest in
Canada in exchange for government approval typically don’t last
longer than three years, said Peter Glossop, a partner at
Toronto-based law firm Osler, Hoskin & Harcourt LLP.  “My guess is that the Malaysian prime minister was trying
to indicate the sheer enormity of the dollar commitment over a
long period of time,” he said. “I’d be surprised if that was a
formal commitment made by the company.”  Generous Commitments  Still, state-owned enterprises will probably have to make
more generous commitments to invest in Canada under the
government’s new rules, said Glossop. “There is definitely
going to be a requirement to commit more.”  In his letter to Harper, Najib said Petronas’ investment in
Canada would create 3,000 “direct and indirect” jobs.  Less than a week before Canada approved of the deal, the
companies said they would make a final decision in 2014 on a
proposed liquefied natural gas facility near the coastal
community of Prince Rupert, British Columbia. The facility would
cost C$9 billion to C$11 billion, create as many as 3,500
construction jobs and employ 200 to 300 people to operate the
terminal, according to the project’s  website .  Gas producers in British Columbia’s Montney Shale region,
far from North American population centers, are seeking higher
prices in Asian markets for the heating and power-plant fuel by
proposing to liquefy the gas for shipment by tanker.  Progress is the second-largest holder in the Montney Shale,
one of Canada’s biggest proven shale-gas reserves with an
estimated 49 trillion cubic feet. Progress would have been
unable to develop its land without capital from Petronas,
Culbert said when the takeover was announced in June.  Progress initially planned to build two smaller LNG
production trains, Culbert said yesterday by phone. The Petronas
investment may let Progress add a third train and expand its LNG
throughput by 50 percent to three billion cubic feet per day, he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  