-- Allies Seek Clues About North Korea’s Nuclear Blast
-- B y   T e r r y   A t l a s
-- 2013-02-14T04:17:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/allies-seek-clues-about-north-korea-s-nuclear-blast.html
The U.S., South Korea and Japan are
sniffing the air in a coordinated intelligence effort to
determine what type of nuclear device was detonated by North
Korea’s secretive regime.  The country’s two previous underground nuclear tests, in
2006 and 2009, drew on its limited reserves of plutonium. Any
evidence that North Korea used highly enriched uranium this time
would signal that it has developed a second source of fissile
material, expanding its potential warhead capabilities and
raising the risk that the cash-strapped nation may sell such
uranium to would-be nuclear weapons states such as Iran.  Air-sampling equipment, some in aircraft and some at
ground-based facilities, is checking for residual radioactive
emissions from the underground test that would confirm it was a
nuclear explosion and provide markers for the type of fissile
material used. A similar inquiry succeeded in 2006, while one in
2009 failed because that blast didn’t vent radioactive material.  “One important question is whether the nuclear test used
only plutonium or involved highly enriched uranium, either alone
or in combination with plutonium,” said  David Albright  and
Andrea Stricker of the Institute for Science and International
Security in comments on the website of the Washington-based
research group that tracks nuclear issues.  Smaller, Lighter  North Korea tested “a smaller and light” nuclear device
Feb. 12, the official Korean Central News Agency said, two
months after test-firing a long-range rocket. The device had a
yield of 6 to 7 kilotons, South Korea’s Defense Ministry
estimated. That was bigger than the previous two North Korean
detonations, though less than half the explosive power of the
uranium-fueled bomb that the U.S. dropped on Hiroshima in 1945.  “There is no question that North Korea constitutes a
threat to the United States, to regional stability, and to
global security,” outgoing U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta 
said yesterday at a news conference in Washington. “A
combination of a recent missile test combined with what
apparently was this nuclear test we believe represents a real
threat to the United States of America.”  Much of the policy debate since the blast has focused on
indications that North Korea was testing a miniaturized nuclear
device as the regime seeks to develop a warhead that could be
placed on a long-range missile. The U.S. intelligence community
assesses that North Korea remains some years from achieving the
capability to threaten the continental U.S., though it may pose
a nuclear threat to its regional neighbors sooner.  Technology Doubts  South Korea doubts that  Kim Jong Un ’s regime has perfected
the miniaturization technology, Defense Ministry spokesman Kim
Min Seok told reporters yesterday in Seoul.  “It took Pakistan about seven nuclear tests to weaponize,
so relatively speaking, the North doesn’t seem to have conducted
enough tests,” Kim said.  North Korea said in its statement that it now has achieved
a “diversified” nuclear capability -- a possible signal that
highly enriched uranium was used.  That would be a significant development, according to James
Acton, a nuclear policy specialist at the Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace, a Washington-based policy group.  “North Korea’s plutonium stockpile is small and has been
depleted somewhat by earlier tests,” Acton said in a statement
on the group’s  website . “Given the dilapidated state of its
plutonium-production infrastructure, it would be both difficult
and expensive to produce more. If, however, North Korea has
mastered uranium enrichment, it could expand its arsenal
relatively cheaply and quickly.”  Plutonium Supply  North Korea’s plutonium supply is limited because it shut
down and disabled the sole source, a reactor complex at
Yongbyong, under a short-lived 2007 denuclearization accord with
the U.S., South Korea, Japan, China and Russia.  North Korea was estimated last year to have 30 to 50
kilograms of separated plutonium produced before the shutdown,
enough for at least a half-dozen nuclear weapons, according to a
U.S. Congressional Research Service report.  “While North Korea’s weapons program has been plutonium-
based from the start, in the past decade, intelligence emerged
pointing to a second route to a bomb using highly enriched
uranium,” according to the report last year.  After repeatedly denying such an effort, North Korea in
November 2010 showed visiting American specialists early
construction of a 100-megawatt light-water reactor and a newly
built gas centrifuge uranium-enrichment plant, both at its
Yongbyong site.  Uranium Enrichment  In late 2011, North Korea said the facility was producing
uranium enriched to as much as 3.5 percent, suitable for use in
a power reactor but short of the 90 percent enrichment for a
nuclear device. Iran has natural uranium reserves that can
supply an enrichment program.  “The North’s disclosure supports the United States’
longstanding assessment that North Korea has pursued a uranium-
enrichment capability,” U.S. Director of National Intelligence
 James Clapper  told Congress a year ago.  The production of highly enriched uranium is much easier to
hide than is the case for plutonium, according to Victor Cha and
Ellen Kim, writing on the website of the Center for Strategic
and International Studies, a Washington policy group. “It can
be made in from centrifuges operating in buildings the size of a
warehouse unlike the big and easily identifiable footprint of a
plutonium nuclear plant facility.”  The post-explosion detection effort involves the U.S. and
its allies, as well as global monitoring stations established
under the Comprehensive Nuclear Test-Ban Treaty, which prohibits
testing in an effort to slow the spread of atomic weapons.  ‘Educated Guesses’  “If radioactivity is detected, it should be possible to
distinguish between a uranium and a plutonium device,” Acton
said. “It may also be possible to assess what other materials
were present in the device and hence make educated guesses about
its design.”  Secretary of State  John Kerry  said yesterday that North
Korea’s nuclear test poses a threat to the U.S. and to global
peace.  “The international community needs to come together for a
swift, clear response,” Kerry said in Washington at a press
conference with Jordanian Foreign Minister  Nasser Judeh . Kerry
said the response to North Korea would have to be swift and
clear because it also would send a message to Iran.  “This is about proliferation, and it’s also about Iran
because they’re linked,” Kerry said.  The U.S. has said that Iran is using its uranium-enrichment
technology as part of an effort to develop nuclear weapons
capability, and the U.S. and Israel have looked for evidence
that Iran is cooperating with North Korea in weapons
development.  Iran denied such cooperation in December, following a
report by Japan’s Kyodo news agency saying Iran had stationed
defense staff in North Korea for joint work on missile and
nuclear development.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  