-- Malone Cable Threat Sparks Copper Revival in Europe
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2013-02-14T13:24:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/malone-cable-threat-sparks-copper-revival-in-europe.html
For Europe’s telecommunications
companies, wires are the new wireless.  Vodafone Group Plc  is considering a bid for Kabel
Deutschland AG, Germany’s biggest cable operator, with a market
value topping 6 billion euros ($8 billion), a person familiar
with the proposal said. And a week earlier, billionaire  John Malone ’s  Liberty Global Inc.  agreed to buy Virgin Media Inc. for
about $16 billion, adding 5 million subscribers in the U.K.  The growing interest in cable assets has spurred the
region’s cash-strapped former telecommunications monopolies to
bet on a trusted asset to keep customers from defecting:
decades-old copper wires.  As the wireless business becomes increasingly crowded,
 Deutsche Telekom AG ,  Telekom Austria AG ,  Belgacom SA  and dozens
of other carriers are testing a technology that can make
networks built for simple voice calls speedy enough to carry
high-definition movies and music. Already available for a small
number of users, the method lets the providers match the speed
offered by cable and avoid spending billions of dollars to lay
new fiber-optic lines.  “Phone companies understand that they need to utilize
their copper networks as well as possible to stand a chance
against cable providers,” said  Hannes Wittig , an analyst at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in London. “While this technology may not
obliterate cable, it’s the only thing they can afford.”  Cutting Interference  Dubbed “vectoring,” the technique lets carriers speed up
signals by cutting interference in copper wires. The vectoring
hardware has been developed by Alcatel-Lucent SA, which says
dozens of carriers are testing it and nine have signed contracts
for installation.  Europe’s former monopolies have reported years of sales
declines as users abandon fixed phone lines and wireless tariffs
fall. And many carriers face tens of billions of euros in debt
after investing in wireless networks, spectrum licenses and
acquisitions.  Shares of  Royal KPN NV , Telekom Austria and  France Telecom
SA  have plunged more than 40 percent on average over the past 12
months. In the same period, the Stoxx Europe 600 Index rallied
almost 10 percent, while in the U.S.  AT&T Inc . and  Verizon
Communications Inc.  climbed.  Though Internet connections have provided some relief for
Europe’s incumbent carriers, that business is increasingly under
assault as cable rivals sign up customers who want faster speeds
and packages bundling TV, Internet and phone.  Kabel Deutschland  Liberty Global, with cable operations in five European
countries and Chile, boosted revenue 7 percent in the first nine
months of 2012, versus a 0.6 percent drop at Deutsche Telekom.
In Germany, the largest market for both companies, Liberty
Global’s Unitymedia KabelBW increased sales 10 percent, while
Deutsche Telekom lost 2.6 percent of its fixed-line sales.  Kabel Deutschland provides TV, Internet and phone services
to 8.5 million households on networks inherited from Deutsche
Telekom. The company has boosted revenue  every year  since 2007,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales may reach 1.8
billion euros in the 12 months through March, an increase of
about 80 percent over seven years, the data showed.  Vodafone has about 3.2 million fixed-line Internet and
150,000 TV customers in Germany, some of which it could migrate
to Kabel Deutschland’s network. If a takeover is approved by
competition watchdogs, Vodafone could also offer those services
to its mobile customers and avoid paying rental fees on copper
lines to Deutsche Telekom.  Canceling Crosstalk  The speed of data through copper is limited by
electromagnetic interference among wires bundled in subterranean
tubes.  Alcatel-Lucent  has developed a chip that measures that
noise and generates countersignals to offset it, letting
operators double transmission speed. Though rivals are working
on similar equipment, Alcatel’s offering is the most advanced,
according to JPMorgan.  “You’re basically looking at tens or hundreds of thousands
of what we call disturbers -- lines that generate crosstalk and
interfere with your line,” said Stefaan Vanhastel, director of
fixed-access marketing at Alcatel, based in Paris. “Measuring
and canceling that in real time has been the challenge.”  The vectoring technology can double a line’s maximum
download speed to about 100 megabits per second -- fast enough
to transfer a high-resolution movie in a minute. That would
match top speeds advertised by European cable providers.  Google Network  To get those speeds, phone operators need to lay fiber to a
few hundred meters from customers’ homes. Where the fiber meets
the copper that covers the final distance, workers install a
chip that measures noise and generates countersignals.  With cable providers and even content companies such as
Google Inc. building ever speedier networks, vectoring
technology may only give phone companies a brief respite as
customers keep consuming more video, games and music, cautions
 Sascha Berresch , an analyst at Hauck & Aufhaeuser in Hamburg.  Vectoring “still takes time and costs money, and the
cables won’t be standing still,” Berresch said. “I’m not sure
phone companies will be able to reverse the trend.”  Adding vectored lines costs operators 300 euros to 400
euros per customer, versus about 1,500 euros to extend fiber all
the way to homes, JPMorgan estimates. Installation is also
faster. The vectoring technology has been tested by 40 phone
companies, Vanhastel said, though he declined to name them.  Austria, Belgium  Telekom Austria , the former Austrian monopoly, says it’s
using Alcatel’s vectoring gear in Korneuburg, a town of 12,000
near Vienna, and is now planning a wider deployment.  Belgacom ,
which says it will introduce vectoring next year, is testing the
equipment on both old and new copper cables to measure real-
world performance.  Deutsche Telekom expects to offer the technology to 24
million German households through 2016 and is testing it at its
Greek unit, where it’s installing the hardware in street
cabinets in Athens.  “We are not leaving the turf to them,” Deutsche Telekom
Chief Executive Officer  Rene Obermann  said in a presentation in
December. “The challenges will grow and we need to do something
about our network performance in order to remain competitive.”  The European Commission wants Internet providers to offer
download speeds of at least 30 megabits per second by 2020, with
half of homes exceeding 100 megabits per second.  Carriers can’t afford to reach that goal using fiber alone.
Deutsche Telekom has estimated a complete fiber rollout in
Germany would cost 60 billion euros to 80 billion euros, but the
company budgets less than 10 billion euros a year for
investment, including its mobile and international networks. The
French government says it would cost 25 billion euros to build a
nationwide fiber network -- 10 times the domestic spending of
 France Telecom .  “Since they don’t have sufficient funds for fiber they
pimp their DSL lines,”  Lutz Schueler , the CEO of Unitymedia
KabelBW, said in a phone interview today. “But that wouldn’t
have happened if they had not realized that speed matters. When
they have 100 Mbit, we’ll have 200 Mbit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  