-- Alsacia Bonds Plunge on JPMorgan, Fitch Outlook: Santiago Mover
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2013-02-13T18:10:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/alsacia-bonds-plunge-on-jpmorgan-fitch-outlook-santiago-mover.html
Inversiones Alsacia SA bonds
tumbled, pushing yields up the most in 15 months, as JPMorgan
Chase & Co. recommended selling the Chilean bus operator’s debt
and Fitch Ratings said it may lower its rating.  Yields on dollar-denominated notes due 2018 rose 41 basis
points, or 0.41 percentage point, to 8.72 percent at 2:02 p.m.
in Santiago, the biggest increase on a closing basis since
October 2011. The price of the securities dropped 1.72 cents to
96.92 cents on the dollar.  JPMorgan lowered its recommendation yesterday to the
equivalent of sell, saying Alsacia’s ability to service its debt
is deteriorating. Fitch said it may cut the company’s BB
ranking, two levels below investment grade, citing the company’s
shrinking profit, slower growth and declining demand for bus
transportation.  “The use of reserve funds is imminent,” Fitch analysts
 Astra Castillo  in Monterrey, Mexico, and Omar Valdez in New York
wrote in a report yesterday. “Debt coverage for the coming
payments is highly uncertain.”  Telephone calls to Patricio Pinto, Alsacia’s head of
corporate affairs, weren’t answered during business hours today.  The company sold $464 million of the bonds two years ago
with a yield of 8 percent. That yield was higher than the
expected 7.5 percent, spurring Fitch to cut its rating by one
level to BB.  Alsacia’s debt service coverage ratio was 1.12 at the end
of January, compared with a level of 1.1 that may require the
company to start making early payments, JPMorgan analysts  Daniel Sensel  and  Daniela Savoia  wrote in a research report yesterday.
JPMorgan and Bank of America Corp. managed the original bond
sale in 2011.  “Even though we believe the company has enough cash to
take care of operating expenses and debt service, we believe
there will be some volatility in the short term until there is
more clarity about the plans of the company to avoid a possible
break” of the debt ratio in April, Sensel and Savoia wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  