-- Angolan Central Bank Governor Sees Room for Lower Interest Rates
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2013-02-13T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/angolan-central-bank-governor-sees-room-for-lower-interest-rates.html
Angola’s central bank has room to
lower interest rates to spur investment in Africa’s second-
biggest oil producer, Governor  Jose de Lima Massano  said.  Policy makers cut the benchmark interest rate for the first
time in a year in January, lowering it to 10 percent from 10.25
percent as inflation slowed. Commercial banks charge borrowers
between 12 percent and 14 percent.  “There is still room for interest rates to come down to
get to a point where they can influence more investment,”
Massano, 43, said in an interview yesterday at his offices in
Luanda, the capital. “They can come down without damage to
price stability.”  Angola is strengthening economic policy to help rebuild
after a 27-year civil war that ended in 2002. Interest rates
have come down from 23 percent two years ago, when Massano
created the Monetary Policy Committee. Inflation has eased from
13.7 percent in August 2011 to 9 percent in December. The
Angolan kwanza has weakened 1.1 percent over the past year to
95.9443 to the dollar as of late yesterday.  Since then, the bank has shifted its focus of monetary
policy away from controlling money supply toward improving
coordination with the Ministry of Finance on economic stability,
Massano said.  “We still have some structural deficiencies in our
economy, such as bottlenecks in the transportation of goods, so
we have discussions with the government about those barriers,”
he said. “It’s a more pragmatic monetary policy, not just
sitting and waiting.”  Bond Market  Oil dominates Angola’s economy, accounting for more than 60
percent of domestic output and 97 percent of export earnings.
Offshore oil fields operated by companies including  Exxon Mobil
Corp. ,  Chevron Corp. ,  BP Plc  and  Total SA  pump about 1.8 million
barrels of oil a day, second only to Nigeria in Africa.  Angola plans to create its first bond market within months,
to be overseen by Angola’s Capital Markets Commission, setting
the stage for a stock market within two years, Massano said.
While some local companies may need more time to meet
requirements on financial reporting and transparency, the nine
largest banks in the country are ready to list on the exchange,
he said.  Banco Regional Do Keve SA, an Angolan lender, raised $20
million of subordinated debt in the country’s first corporate
bond sale in September.  Oil Law  A law enacted in October requires foreign oil companies to
pay suppliers from accounts with local banks, potentially
boosting liquidity and the currency as it funnels $33 billion a
year through the economy, according to Joao Fonseca, executive
director at Luanda-based Banco Angolano de Investimentos.  The central bank will ensure lenders can meet increased
demand from oil companies for local currency, Massano said.  “We feel we have the instruments necessary to reach the
goals of no embarrassments for the oil companies and their
payments, stability for the economy and the right incentives for
making goods in the country,” he said.  Angola has 23 registered domestic banks and 10 units of
foreign financial companies, according to the  website  of the
central bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in Luanda at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  