-- Hanjan Skewers Hearts for Valentine’s Day: Ryan Sutton
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2013-02-13T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/hanjan-skewers-hearts-for-valentine-s-day-ryan-sutton.html
Tomorrow is Valentine’s Day, when
many New York restaurants fleece customers with overpriced
special menus and exorbitant cancellation fees.  Fortunately, there are exceptions like Hanjan in the
Flatiron district. No prix fixe menu or heart-shaped desserts,
just a la carte offerings and bloody chicken hearts.  How do the organs taste?  Imagine the silkiness of filet mignon, the beefiness of a
skirt steak and the gentle tang of good liver. They’re skewered,
like Cupid’s arrows.  Hanjan , apacked tavern that could easily charge more, is
owned by Hooni Kim, one of just two chefs in Manhattan running a
Michelin-starred Korean spot.  Kim earned that star at Danji, his debut effort on 52nd
Street that’s SRO by early evening.  Kim’s sophomore effort is a love letter to Korean drinking
fare. And drinking. Hanjan is just as good as its flagship, even
without Danji’s signature steak tartare.  You will see adults sitting at the bar, drinking what
appears to be milk. The beverage is makgeolli ($9), a fermented
mix of rice, wheat and water. It’s vaguely coarse and slightly
sweet, like Mexican horchata but with as much alcohol as beer.  Drinker Beware  So approach with caution. This is what you drink with
something salty or bitter. Scallion pancake ($12) is the right
call. It’s less a cake than a free-form serving of fragrant
onions loosely bound by batter that’s earthy and crunchy.  Use the rice beer to take the edge off an incendiary belt
fish ($18). Gently pry a knob of flesh from the very bony
skeleton, dip in the braising liquid and quell the capsicum-
induced pain with more makgeolli.  Hanjan is about spicy, salty, fishy, flavors, all in
modestly-sized portions that cost $22 or less. And if things all
start tasting familiar, that’s because many dishes are an
efficient delivery system for gochugaru, Korean red chili flakes
that could melt earwax.  That’s what inflames the belt fish (hold), as well as a
saute of squid (buy), and a small mound of glutinous rice cakes
and pork fat (strong buy). You sweat it all out at Hanjan’s long
bar or communal table. Sure, there are private tables, but
really, this is a tavern, so don’t be shy.  I Spy  The table affords good spying. “We’ll have what they’re
having,” says a burly man, pointing at my cod roe stew, one of
three large-format dishes. The hot, musky eggs of the flat fish
look like tripe and taste like the ocean.  The second big dish is ramen ($16). It differs from similar
preparations elsewhere in that it’s only available after 10 p.m.
and it’s incendiary. Firm noodles soak up the fiery (gochugaru-
spiked) broth with aplomb.  The third big dish is brisket and radish kimchi fried rice.
While the grains aren’t as mushy as the paella I once sampled at
Danji, the muted, mediocre flavors don’t pop as they do
elsewhere on Hanjan’s menu. Rice isn’t his strong suit.  Meat on a stick is. This becomes clear once you start
eating the $6 chicken thighs. The flavor is clean and juicy.  Gizzards boast a welcome snap, with a soft clove of garlic
working to tame the game.  Barbecue galbi skewers ($10), sweet blocks of short rib,
taste of fat, char and beef. Smear the meat with spicy ssamjang
paste and wrap with lettuce.  Blubber Belly  Time to come down from that glutamate high. The sole tofu
preparation comes with a side of blubbery pork belly, which you
can toss in favor of the fluffy, meringue-like soy protein.
Trotters ($20) are equal parts pork and soft cartilage.  Thirsty? By now, you’ve moved onto something stronger,
perhaps a bottle of sochu ($18), with the sting of vodka and
half the proof.  Suddenly, half a mackerel appears. Some silky bites are
packed with clean oils. Others are firm and fleshy. All are
perfect. So remember this affordable bliss if you haven’t
already mortgaged yourself for a V-day tasting.  Rating: **  The Bloomberg Questions  Price: All dishes $22 or under.  Sound Level: Never too loud, about 70-75 decibels.  Date Place: Yes.  Special Feature: Silky, sexy salmon sashimi salad.  Inside Tip: Only ice cream and sorbet for dessert. Skip it.  Back on My Own Dime: Especially for the pork fat rice
cakes.  Hanjan is at 36 West 26th Street. Information: +1-212-206-
7226 or  http://www.hanjan26.com .  
Sound-Level (in decibels): 51 to 55: Quiet enough to converse.
56 to 60: Speak up. 61 to 65: Lean in if you want to hear your
date. 66 to 70: You’re reading one another’s lips. 71 to 75:
You’re yelling. 76 to 85: Ear-splitting din.  ( Ryan Sutton  writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own. Follow him on Tumblr at
www.thepricehike.com or www.thebaddeal.com)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and
Patrick Cole on  music .  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 