-- TAP Is Open to Greek and Italian Partners, Executive Says
-- B y   P a u l   T u g w e l l
-- 2013-02-13T17:15:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/tap-is-open-to-greek-and-italian-partners-executive-says.html
The  Trans Adriatic Pipeline AG  (TAP)
venture would welcome partners from Greece and Italy after the
two countries and Albania signed an agreement backing the
project, TAP Managing Director Kjetil Tungland said.  “TAP shareholders are still welcoming new partners and as
TAP management we feel it would be good to have Italian and
Greek partners,” Tungland said in an interview in Athens today.
He declined to comment on whether TAP shareholders were in
discussions with Greek state-controlled gas supplier Depa SA and
 Enel SA , Italy’s biggest utility.  The 800-kilometer (500 miles) TAP pipeline project is being
developed by Statoil ASA, EON Ruhrgas AG and EGL AG to initially
ship 10 billion cubic meters of Azeri gas a year to Italy via
Greece and Albania from the Turkish border. The proposal is
competing with the  OMV AG -led Nabucco West development, which
would run for 1,300 kilometers from Turkey to Austria via
Bulgaria, Romania and Hungary, for the right to export the fuel.  Albania, Greece and Italy signed in Athens today an
agreement that gives the full political backing of the three
countries to the TAP project. A group led by BP Plc, which is
developing the second phase of Azerbaijan’s Shah Deniz gas
field, will choose between TAP and Nabucco in June. The group
includes the State Oil Co. of Azerbaijan, or Socar.  The agreement provides “the necessary regulatory and legal
framework as well as stability over the lifetime of the project
which is necessary before investments can be made,” Tungland
said. “Azerbaijan now knows the full commitment of the three
countries to the TAP project.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Tugwell in Athens at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  