-- Applied Materials Sales Forecast May Exceed Projections
-- B y   I a n   K i n g   a n d   K a r l   B a k e r
-- 2013-02-14T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/applied-materials-sales-forecast-may-exceed-projections.html
Applied Materials Inc. , the largest
producer of chipmaking equipment, forecast fiscal second-quarter
sales that beat most estimates, indicating that some customers
are expanding output on brisk demand for mobile devices.  Sales in the current period will rise 15 percent to 25
percent from the prior quarter, the company said in a statement
yesterday, indicating revenue of $1.81 billion to $1.97 billion.
Analysts on average estimated sales of $1.81 billion, according
to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Some of Applied Materials’ biggest customers, including
 Intel Corp.  and  Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. , have
budgeted more on new plants and machinery for 2013 than
expected, sparking optimism that the industry is through the
worse of a slump in orders. Sales of smartphones, tablets and
other mobile computers are driving demand for equipment,
according to  William Kreher , an analyst at Edward Jones & Co.  “Strong demand for products like smartphones and tablets
are leading to the strength in the guidance,” said Kreher, who
 rates  Applied Materials a hold.  Shares of the Santa Clara, California-based company climbed
2.8 percent in late trading. They rose less than 1 percent to
$13.77 at yesterday’s close in New York, leaving them up 20
percent this year. That compares with a 2.8 percent advance in
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Information Technology Index in the
same period.  Mobile Demand  Growth of the smartphone and tablet markets, and the
competition among chipmakers that supply them, is fueling demand
for the company’s machinery, Applied Materials President  Gary Dickerson  said in an interview.  “If you look at smartphones and tablets, the growth is
very strong,” Dickerson said. “With the trends in mobile right
now, every company has to drive to compete on low battery
life.”  Profit, excluding certain items, in the current period will
be 9 cents to 15 cents a share, the company said. That compares
with an average analyst estimate of 11 cents, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Applied Materials reported first-quarter net income of $34
million, or 3 cents a share, from $117 million, or 9 cents, a
year earlier.  Revenue  in the period that ended Jan. 27 fell 28
percent to $1.57 billion. That compares with an average analyst
estimate for a loss of $275,000 on revenue of $1.55 billion.  “They are coming through their trough and I expect, as
2013 progresses, things will get better for them on the
semiconductor side,” said  Patrick Ho , an analyst at Stifel
Nicolaus & Co. He recommends buying the shares.  In October, the company said it plans to eliminate 900 to
1,300 jobs, or 6 percent to 9 percent of its worldwide
workforce.  Applied Materials said it’s making progress on finding a
finance chief, after the Jan. 30 announcement that Chief
Financial Officer  George Davis  will leave the company in March
to join  Qualcomm Inc.   “We expect to appoint a new CFO in the coming weeks,”
 Michael Splinter , chief executive officer of Applied Materials,
said on a conference call.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net ;
Karl Baker in New York at 
 kbaker30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  