-- Argentine Court Upholds Credit Suisse Executive Arrest Request
-- B y   P a b l o   G o n z a l e z
-- 2013-02-13T17:25:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/argentine-court-upholds-credit-suisse-executive-arrest-request.html
An Argentine appeals court has
upheld an international arrest order for Credit Suisse Group AG
executive  David Mulford  for failing to testify in a probe on the
events leading to the country’s 2001 debt default, court
documents show.  A three-judge panel in Buenos Aires said Feb. 7 that Judge
Marcelo Martinez de Giorgi’s Sept. 3 ruling requesting Interpol
assistance in locating and extraditing Mulford in connection to
the probe is valid and must proceed, according to a copy of the
ruling filed to Argentina’s court information  system . The judges
said the appeal signed by Mulford’s lawyer was “inconsistent.”  Drew Benson , a spokesman for Credit Suisse in New York,
declined to comment when contacted by Bloomberg News by
telephone. Andres Espina and Marcos Salt, Mulford’s lawyers in
Argentina, didn’t reply to a phone call and e-mail seeking
comment. Mulford, now based in London, didn’t immediately reply
to a phone call to his office seeking comment.  A former U.S. Treasury undersecretary and U.S. Ambassador
to India, Mulford was chairman of Credit Suisse First Boston
International when he was tapped by then-Economy Minister
 Domingo Cavallo in 2001 to engineer a $16 billion debt exchange
amid the country’s financial crisis.  Today, Mulford serves as international vice-chairman of
 Credit Suisse . The ruling was first reported by local news
organization DyN on Feb. 11 during an Argentine holiday.  The Buenos Aires court has been investigating for a decade
former government officials, including Cavallo, for possible
crimes committed during the the swap, known as the
“megacanje,” in Spanish, or big swap. The swap preceded
Argentina’s default on $95 billion in bonds that same year.  Argentina and the U.K. have a valid extradition treaty
dated 1882, said Carolina Navarro, an official at the
international assistance desk at Argentina’s Foreign Affairs
Ministry, in a phone interview from Buenos Aires.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pablo Gonzalez in Buenos Aires at 
 pgonzalez49@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  