-- Arqiva Marketing $1.7 Billion of Debut Bonds to Refinance Loans
-- B y   H a n n a h   B e n j a m i n   a n d   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 2013-02-13T16:09:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/arqiva-marketing-1-7-billion-of-debut-bonds-to-refinance-loans.html
Arqiva Ltd. is marketing a debut
issue of 1.1 billion pounds ($1.7 billion) of bonds to enable
the operator of television broadcast towers in the U.K. to
refinance loans taken out before the credit crisis.  The notes will be sold in pounds and dollars after the
Winchester, England-based company completes investor meetings on
Feb. 19., according to a person with knowledge of the deal.
Arqiva is offering both investment grade and high-yield bonds.  British infrastructure companies are replacing bank loans
with longer-dated bonds to take advantage of low borrowing
costs. Speculative-grade company bonds issued in pounds yield
6.5 percent, just above a record low of 6.3 percent on Jan. 21,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Sterling High Yield
Index.  “We are very confident of raising the junior bonds as the
high-yield market is so good,” said Arqiva’s Chief Financial
Officer Phil Moses . “The long-term aim is to be entirely bond-
financed, so the more we can sell now the easier our job will be
in the next three to five years.”  Arqiva, whose customers include  British Sky Broadcasting
Group Plc  and ITV Plc, is issuing the equivalent of 600 million
pounds of seven-year senior notes in pounds and dollars through
Arqiva Broadcast Finance Plc, the person with knowledge of the
deal said.  The notes will be rated B3 by Moody’s Investors Service and
be junior to the 500 million pounds of senior secured notes
being sold through its Arqiva Financing No 1 Ltd. unit. Those
bonds are expected to get an investment grade ranking, the
person with knowledge of the deal said.  Arqiva Loans  Arqiva borrowed 3.4 billion pounds in 2007 to help finance
its merger with National Grid Wireless after spinning off from
NTL Inc. two years earlier. Shareholders led by Canada’s Pension
Plan Investment Board and Macquarie European Infrastructure fund
are injecting 867 million pounds of equity into the company to
lower debt ratios, according to a person with knowledge of the
arrangements.  Volkswagen Leasing GmbH plans to sell lease-backed bonds
after investor meetings on Feb. 20, a person with knowledge of
the deal said,  The cost of insuring PSA Peugeot Citroen’s debt against
default dropped after the French carmaker reported a full-year
loss narrower than forecast by analysts. Credit-default swaps on
the company’s five-year bonds fell 39 basis points to 672 at
2:54 p.m. London, the fourth day of declines.  Vodafone Bid  Kabel Deutschland Holding AG’s bonds surged on reports
Vodafone Group Plc is considering a bid for Germany’s largest
cable company. The Munich-based company’s 6.5 percent senior
notes due 2017 jumped 2.3 euro cents 108.54 cents, the highest
in a month.  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of credit-default swaps
linked to 125 investment grade companies fell two basis points
to 112. The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of contracts linked to
50 companies with mostly speculative-grade ratings declined
eight basis points to 435, the gauge’s lowest level in almost
two weeks.  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of swaps on 25 banks and
insurers fell six basis points to 143.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A basis point on
a contract protecting 10 million euros of debt for five years is
equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hannah Benjamin  in London at 
 hbenjamin1@bloomberg.net   Stephen Morris  in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  