-- Harvest Rises Most in Month on Venezuela Comments: Caracas Mover
-- B y   N a t h a n   C r o o k s   a n d   C o r i n a   P o n s
-- 2013-02-14T01:09:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/harvest-rises-most-in-month-on-venezuela-comments-caracas-mover.html
Harvest Natural Resources Inc .
climbed the most since January after Venezuela’s oil minister
 Rafael Ramirez  said that the South American country was still
analyzing a proposed asset sale.  Harvest Natural rose 3 percent to $9.33 at the close in New
York, the biggest increase since Jan. 4. The company agreed last
year to sell its 32 percent stake in Petrodelta SA, a joint
venture with state-owned Petroleos de Venezuela SA, to
Indonesia’s   Pertamina Persero PT  for $725 million.  The sale has been delayed as Harvest included reserves that
belong to the Venezuelan state in the proposal to the
government, Ramirez told reporters today in Caracas. Both the
buyer and seller know what they need to do in order to obtain
government approval, he said.  “I spoke with both of them,” Ramirez said. “The issue is
that there were reserve barrels included in the negotiation that
shouldn’t be there. They would need to pay a bonus to the
Venezuelan state if they include any barrels not already
approved by the National Assembly.”  Harvest shares gained as much as 10.8 percent in intraday
trading after Ramirez’s comments.  Stephen Haynes , the company’s
Chief Financial Officer, did not immediately return a telephone
message left today seeking comment on Ramirez’s statements.  Satisfactory Negotiations  “We’re satisfied with the negotiations. We like the
company that wants to buy this stake,” Ramirez said. “We’ll
approve the sale once this is resolved. We have all the patience
in the world.”  The deal needs approval from shareholders as well as the
Venezuelan and Indonesian governments, Harvest said in June,
adding that net proceeds from the sale are estimated to be about
$525 million after “deductions for transaction related costs
and taxes.”  Harvest Chief Executive Officer  James Edmiston  said in
January that Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez ’s battle with
cancer won’t hurt its chances of getting approval for the deal.  Chavez, 58, hasn’t been seen or heard in public since he
arrived in Cuba for a fourth cancer surgery on Dec. 11.  “We do not have any deadline for closing the deal because
we need to consider the political situation there,”  Muhamad Husen , Pertamina’s upstream director, said on Feb. 6 after a
meeting with Indonesia’s parliament in Jakarta.  Pertamina still needs to agree to final terms with Harvest
before requesting approval from the Indonesian government, Husen
said.  Reserves  Petrodelta’s six fields hold gross proved reserves of 221
million barrels of proved, probable and possible oil and gas
reserves, according to Harvest Natural’s website.  Eulogio Del Pino , vice president of exploration and
production at state oil company  Petroleos de Venezuela SA , said
last year that the deal looks “positive” because of
Pertamina’s investment capabilities.  “I think these comments from Ramirez today are a clear
positive for Harvest as it shows that Venezuela is supportive of
the deal and we seem to be getting closer to Venezuelan
approval,” Patrick Goff, a senior analyst at First Capital
Alliance LLC in Chicago, said today in an e-mailed response to
questions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net ;
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  