-- Asahi Sues Buyout Firms Over 2011 Independent Takeover
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g   a n d   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-02-14T06:31:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/asahi-claims-it-was-misled-in-1-3-billion-takeover.html
Asahi Group Holdings Ltd ., the
Japanese brewer of Super Dry, sued two buyout firms that sold it
a New Zealand liquor distributor in 2011 for NZ$1.53 billion
($1.3 billion), claiming it was given false information about
the company’s finances.  Pacific Equity Partners Pty. and  Unitas Capital  Pte.
engaged in misleading and deceptive conduct by inflating
Independent Liquor’s earnings ahead of the takeover,  Asahi  said.
The lawsuit was filed in Federal Court in Melbourne.  “We are seeking maximum recovery of our loss,” Atsushi
Katsuki, managing director of Asahi’s Australian unit, said in a
statement today, without elaborating on the damages sought. “We
conducted due diligence thoroughly and in good faith and relied
on the figures provided to us.”  Asahi’s damage in the transaction is the difference between
the sum it paid for the company and the real value of
Independent Liquor on Sept. 30, 2011, the Japanese company said
in its statement of claim. Further particulars of loss and
damage will be provided after an examination of evidence and
interviews, Asahi said.  Management Fees  Asahi also sued to recover NZ$1.5 million of NZ$16.5
million in management fees paid to Pacific Equity and Unitas,
based on what Asahi said were inflated figures for the target’s
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization, or
Ebitda. Asahi also sued directors at Pacific Equity, Unitas and
Independent Liquor claiming they breached their duties.  The claims are “completely untrue and unfounded,” Pacific
Equity and Unitas said in an e-mailed statement today.  “Asahi and its team of expert advisers were given full
access to information and management during a three-month due
diligence process,” the buyout firms said.  Pacific Equity and Unitas plan to file a countersuit for
breach of contract and seek unspecified damages, the firms said.  Asahi shares  rose  5.8 percent, the most since May 18, 2011,
to close at 2,125 yen in Tokyo. The company yesterday forecast a
54 percent boost in its dividend this year.  Asahi ’s largest-ever
takeover was part of a strategy of pursuing overseas
acquisitions as a shrinking domestic population hurts demand for
beer and soft drinks.  Asahi, based in Tokyo, reported annual profit of 57.2
billion yen ($613 million) yesterday, missing its own forecast
of 65 billion yen in net income.  Stolichnaya Vodka  Independent Liquor, founded by University of California,
Berkeley math student  Michael Erceg  in 1987, is New Zealand’s
largest distributor of packaged cocktails, according to the
 company’s website . It distributes brands including Stolichnaya
vodka, NZ Pure lager, and the Vodka Cruiser line of premixed
drinks, according to the site.  Pacific Equity and Unitas each held 43.9 percent stakes in
Independent, which they’d bought for NZ$1.2 billion in 2006,
according to a  statement  issued at the time of the acquisition.
The buyout firms acquired the distributor following Erceg’s
death in a helicopter accident.  The buyout groups misled Asahi by “significantly inflating
the Ebitda during the sale process and Asahi’s due diligence,”
the Japanese company said in an e-mailed statement.  Ebitda Projections  The sellers projected Ebitda of NZ$112 million to NZ$113
million for the 12 months ending March 2011, which turned out to
be NZ$93 million, according to the statement of claim. Ebitda
forecasts for the year ending in June 2011 were NZ$117.4 million
to NZ$118 million compared with the actual NZ$92 million, Asahi
said.  The Ebitda trend “was not one of growth, but one of
decline,” the complainants said.  Independent Liquor, registered as Flavoured Beverages Group
Holdings Ltd., included sales of goods that weren’t delivered in
its revenue, contrary to its accounting policy, Asahi said. The
company also gave customers incentives to make purchases earlier
than they otherwise would to boost revenue numbers, Asahi said.  Independent Liquor had sales of NZ$414 million and Ebitda
of about NZ$95 million according to a calculation based on the
company’s 2010  accounts  filed with New Zealand’s companies’
registry. The company had a comprehensive loss of NZ$95 million
that year and NZ$104 million the previous year.  Based on an earnings forecast of NZ$124.6 million to NZ$125
million in the 12 months to Sept. 30, 2011 cited in the
statement of claim, Asahi paid about 12.2 times Ebitda for the
company, compared to a median of 8.8 times Ebitda in nine
alcoholic-drinks takeovers worth more than $1 billion in the
previous three years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Independent had Ebitda of NZ$83 million in the year ending
September 2011, Asahi said. At that amount of profit, Asahi’s
purchase was priced at 18.4 times 2011 earnings.  Several large takeovers in the sector have taken place at
higher multiples since then, the data show. Over the past five
years, the median deal was at 14.3 times Ebitda, with Diageo
Plc.’s bid for United Spirits Ltd. and Heineken NV’s offer for
Asia Pacific Breweries Ltd. both at more than 17 times Ebitda.  The case is Asahi Holdings (Australia) Pty v. Pacific
Equity Partners Pty. VID87/2013. Federal Court of Australia
(Melbourne).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net ;
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  