-- Attack on Egypt Central Bank Chief’s Car Shows Security Woes
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2013-02-13T13:41:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/attack-on-egypt-central-bank-chief-s-car-shows-security-woes-1-.html
Masked gunmen attacked the car of
Egypt’s central bank governor this morning, shooting dead an
armed police guard in an incident highlighting security problems
gripping the country two years after the 2011 uprising.  Hisham Ramez  said in an interview that he wasn’t in the car
at the time and the attack was likely a robbery attempt. Police
are searching for the attackers, who drove off in the car, the
state-run Middle East News Agency reported.  “I am safe,” said Ramez, who took over as governor
earlier this month as Egypt’s authorities grapple with a
weakening currency and foreign reserves that have fallen more
than 60 percent since the uprising against  Hosni Mubarak  that
started two years ago.  Restoring security and reviving a battered economy are key
challenges facing President  Mohamed Mursi . Egyptians complain
about widespread crime, including robberies and attacks similar
to that on Ramez’s car, as well as sexual assaults against
female protesters.  “The aggression, violence, robberies and looting we are
hearing about” are “definitely impacting and disturbing the
economic activity in general,”  Mona Mansour , chief economist at
Cairo-based investment bank CI Capital, said by phone.  Police Abuses  Mursi’s critics say Mubarak-era police abuses continue
under the Islamist president, even amid a sense of lawlessness
that has spread since the revolution. They accuse him of
focusing on advancing the interests of the Muslim Brotherhood
while failing to realize goals of the revolt such as improving
living standards.  The president’s supporters say frequent protests that have
recently over into violent clashes are disrupting the
government’s economic recovery efforts.  “Egyptian police and security forces now face almost daily
challenges in the streets,” and there are “credible reports”
that they have sometimes used excessive force, U.S. Assistant
Secretary of State for Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor
 Michael Posner  said in Cairo yesterday.  Dozens of policemen staged a protest in Northern Sinai
today demanding more work benefits and better armament as well
as retribution for police attacked while on duty, MENA reported.  Bassem Yassa, a 24-year-old section manager at Procter &
Gamble Co. in Cairo, said he experienced a situation similar to
the attack on Ramez’s car last month, when armed attackers
forced him out of the company car he was driving at around 3:30
a.m. His wallet and two mobile phones were in the car, he said.  “One of them pointed a gun at my stomach as the others
jumped in the car and tried to work out how to drive it,” he
said by phone. He said that while police eventually managed to
arrest the assailants, the incident left him feeling that
“anyone who wants to do anything does exactly as they wish.
It’s up to us to watch out for ourselves.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  