-- Australia’s AMP Capital Plans to Invest in U.S. Wind, Gas Assets
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-02-13T00:58:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/australia-s-amp-capital-plans-to-invest-in-u-s-wind-gas-assets.html
AMP Capital Investors Ltd., the
Sydney-based company managing about $130 billion in funds, plans
more power investments in the U.S. after putting money into the
country’s renewable energy industry for the first time.  The unit of Australian pension provider  AMP Ltd . is seeking
to make two or three investments this year in U.S. industries
including wind energy, gas-fired power projects and pipelines,
 Digby Beaumont , a senior vice president at AMP Capital, said in
a phone interview yesterday from New York.  AMP Capital announced yesterday a $100 million investment
in North American wind energy developer Capistrano Wind Partners
LLC, a company formed last year by TIAA-CREF, Edison Mission
Energy and Cook Inlet Region Inc. AMP plans further wind
transactions with the Capistrano partners, Beaumont said.  AMP expects to use that partnership as a “platform in the
U.S.,” he said. “Growing this vehicle is a priority, but our
pipeline is looking pretty good for other opportunities.”  U.S. gas and power assets, including infrastructure that
needs to be built because of a surge in shale production, are
areas that may attract AMP’s investment, Beaumont said without
discussing specific investment prospects in the country.  India, Ireland  “U.S. infrastructure needs a lot of capital,” he said.
“Private capital is going to be extremely important to get some
of this stuff done. We see a lot of opportunity, but also a lot
of funds and capital chasing those opportunities.”  AMP Capital has made four renewable energy investments of
about $248 million, including the Capistrano accord, the company
said in an e-mail. One AMP fund last year acquired a stake in
Indian clean-energy company Shalivahana Green Energy Ltd. for
about $29 million, while another in 2012 acquired a controlling
stake in a group of wind farms in Ireland.  Capistrano owns five operating wind farms in Nebraska,
Texas and Wyoming with 413 megawatts of generating capacity,
according to AMP. The investment is on behalf of a large
Australian superannuation fund client, AMP said yesterday. AMP
declined to disclose the name of the Australian client.  U.S. developers added a record 13.1 gigawatts of new wind
power last year, up 98 percent from 2011, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. U.S. wind beat gas in 2012 to become the
largest new source of power generation for the first time.  Long-term power-purchase agreements of 20 years to 25 years
and financing available to develop projects are among the
factors making its wind investment attractive, Beaumont said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  