-- Ayala’s Zobel Eyes Regional Deals to Spur Growth: Southeast Asia
-- B y   N o r m a n   P .   A q u i n o   a n d   D a v i d   I n g l e s
-- 2013-02-13T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/ayala-s-zobel-eyes-regional-deals-to-spur-growth-southeast-asia.html
Ayala Corp ., the largest builder in
the Philippines, plans to expand further in Southeast Asia after
winning water deals in Vietnam and Indonesia, Chairman  Jaime Augusto Zobel de Ayala  said.  The nation’s oldest conglomerate will continue to invest in
Philippine infrastructure projects and pursue organic growth to
win market share, Zobel, 53, a scion of one of the Philippines’
richest families, said in a Bloomberg Television interview.  “We’ve begun to move into the space in Vietnam and
Indonesia as first steps,” Zobel said in Hong Kong Feb. 6. “We
don’t see why that has to stop with just those two countries.”  Growth in Southeast Asia is outpacing bigger nations in the
region, with the exception of China, after policy makers took
steps to bolster their economies amid sluggish global expansion.
Japan’s drive to revive growth is expected to further boost
Southeast Asia, where announced acquisitions surged 39 percent
to $140.7 billion in 2012 from $101.1 billion the year before.  “Ayala’s growth in the Philippines is a bit limited
already and it needs to achieve returns on a larger scale,”
 Jomar Lacson , an analyst at Manila-based Campos Lanuza & Co,
said by phone. “It could replicate its success in the water
business here in emerging markets in the region.”  Ayala  rose  0.5 percent at the close of Manila trading
yesterday. It has gained 9 percent this year, compared with the
12 percent advance of the  Philippine Stock Exchange Index .  Water Acquisitions  Unit  Manila Water Co.  said in July it acquired a 47 percent
stake in Kenh Dong Water Supply Joint Stock Co. in Ho Chi Minh
City through its Singapore subsidiary, after buying 49 percent
of Thu Duc Water BOO Corp., also in Vietnam, in November 2011.
 Manila Water  also agreed in October to acquire  Suez
Environnement Co. ’s 51 percent stake in PT PAM Lyonnaise Jaya,
which holds the concession contract for western Jakarta.  Ayala Corp. bought DBS Group Holdings Ltd.’s 10.4 percent
stake in  Bank of the Philippine Islands  for $620 million in
October, boosting its holding to 44 percent. In December, the
company acquired a stake in a 600-megawatt coal-fired plant in
Mariveles, Bataan, north of the capital.  “We’ve always believed in the possibility of mergers and
acquisitions as a way of expanding,” Zobel said. “In real
estate it means acquiring new land or partnering with others. In
the financial sector, Bank of the Philippine Islands is where it
is today through five or six different mergers in the past two
decades so we’re open to that as well.”  The bank known as BPI held discussions with owners of
 Philippine National Bank  in November and PNB said exclusive
talks ended on Dec. 15.  Gin Distillers  Zobel’s family started as traders and distillers of gin and
rum almost 180 years ago. The family expanded its businesses
after World War II and helped develop Manila’s main financial
district of Makati, which includes the national stock exchange
along Ayala Avenue.  While the company has diversified into telecommunications,
its expansion pace has lagged behind rivals including  San Miguel
Corp. , which moved beyond its roots as a brewer to become the
largest power producer in the Philippines.  “Ayala’s diversification is a struggle between staying
conservative and being aggressive in its desire to engage in
higher-growth businesses such as infrastructure and power,”
Lacson said. “It’s no longer the same conservative animal that
we’ve known it to be. Investors have always demanded more growth
from the company and they are answering that call.”  Property Earnings  Ayala Land Inc., the property arm, said yesterday that 2012
net income rose 27 percent to a record 9.04 billion pesos ($222
million), boosted by home sales. BPI’s profit increased 27
percent last year to 16.3 billion pesos.  Globe Telecom Inc. ,
Ayala’s venture with  Singapore Telecommunications Ltd. , reported
a 30 percent decline in 2012 net income to 6.86 billion pesos on
higher costs related to network improvements.  BPI and Ayala Land shares closed at record levels yesterday
after the benchmark stock index climbed to a record.  Integrated Micro-Electronics Inc. , Ayala’s semiconductor
unit, has operations in Singapore and six manufacturing
facilities in China, where it’s a supplier to the
telecommunication industry, Zobel said.  The group will focus on consumers who buy houses, open bank
accounts, use mobile phones “and essentially drive many of our
different business groups,” Zobel said. Consumer spending makes
up about 70 percent of the Philippine economy, he said.  There’s no bubble in the Philippine property sector where
there remains a backlog of 4 million homes, Zobel said. Record-
low interest rates, inflation that is within the central bank’s
target and an exchange rate trading near a five-year high
benefit Ayala and other Philippine companies, he said.  ‘Exciting Time’  The $225 billion economy grew 6.6 percent last year, more
than economists estimated, as government spending, consumption
and investment rose. Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas kept borrowing
costs at a record-low 3.5 percent last month, while targeting an
average inflation of 3 percent to 5 percent until 2014.  The nation, currently rated at the highest junk level, will
probably win its first investment grade status this year,
central bank Deputy Governor  Diwa Guinigundo  said yesterday.  The peso climbed to 40.55 per dollar on Jan. 14, the
strongest since March 2008. It’s the best performer among
emerging-market currencies in the past 12 months.  Ayala's stock has gained 41 percent in the past year, 
outpacing the 36 percent increase in the benchmark index.  “The overall sheen on the country has been so positive
that it has really helped our whole group,” Zobel said. “It’s
also an exciting time in the Southeast Asian region and the
skill sets we’ve begun to build in our group companies are best
practice in many ways for emerging markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Norman P. Aquino in Manila at 
 naquino1@bloomberg.net ;
 David Ingles  in Hong Kong at 
 dingles@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clarissa Batino at   cbatino@bloomberg.net ;
Lars Klemming at   lklemming@bloomberg.net  