-- Lazard’s Fassbender to Retire After 30 Year Career
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2013-02-13T14:34:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/lazard-s-fassbender-to-retire-after-30-year-career.html
Lazard Ltd. , the world’s largest
independent merger adviser, said Germany Chairman  Ernst Fassbender  will retire at the end of this year, ending a 30-year
career in investment banking.  Fassbender, 54, based in Frankfurt, is leaving to pursue
personal interests, spokesman Richard Creswell confirmed by
telephone today. He has been chairman for Germany, Austria, as
well as central and eastern Europe since 2011.  Fassbender’s career spans three decades at firms including
Lazard, which he joined in 2002, helping to expand the bank’s
position in Germany as co-head and then sole head of investment
banking. He previously worked at Merrill Lynch & Co. and
Deutsche Bank AG. He managed landmark deals including Siemens
AG’s planned spinoff of the Osram lighting unit this year and
the 1998 merger that created steelmaker ThyssenKrupp AG.  Fassbender was made chairman in 2011 and replaced as the
head of investment banking in Germany by  Eric Fellhauer  and
 Alexander Doll . Doll was hired by Barclays Plc in August.
Fellhauer, who joined in 2006 and has worked on deals including
the purchase by  BASF SE  of Cognis Holding GmbH in 2010 and Audi
AG’s acquisition of motorcycle maker Ducati Motor Holding SpA
last year, will continue to run investment banking at Lazard.  There are no immediate plans to replace Fassbender,
according to two people familiar with the matter, who asked not
to be identified because the plans are private. Lazard spokesman
Creswell declined to comment.  Lazard shares earlier this month climbed to the highest
price in about 18 months after reporting profit that beat
analysts’ estimates and the most annual merger-advisory revenue
in four years.  Revenue from advising on mergers and acquisitions rose 13
percent to $792.9 million in 2012 as global deal volume in the
last three months of 2012 reached the highest level since the
third quarter of 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  