-- $13,000 Bounty Offered for Cutting Off Azeri Writer’s Ear
-- B y   Z u l f u g a r   A g a y e v
-- 2013-02-13T13:35:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/azeri-party-offers-13-000-bounty-for-cutting-off-writer-s-ear.html
A party loyal to Azerbaijan’s
President  Ilham Aliyev  offered $13,000 to any member who cuts an
ear off pro-opposition writer Akram Aylisli -- and then
rescinded the bounty to avoid an international scandal.  Hafiz Haciyev, leader of Muasir Musavat, or Modern
Equality, said he withdrew his directive to the party’s youth
organization after being warned by the Interior Ministry.  “We canceled our decision to cut off Aylisli’s ear after
pressure from foreign embassies,” Haciyev said by phone from
the Azeri capital Baku, without being more specific. “The
Interior Ministry also advised us not do so.”  Aylisli’s portrayal of Azeri brutality against Armenians in
his “ Stone Dreams ” novella, which was published in the Russian
magazine Druzhba Narodov, has triggered days of government-
sanctioned protests outside his Baku apartment and in his native
village in the Naxcivan region. Aliyev, 51, who is seeking a
third term in elections scheduled for October, stripped Aylisli,
a member of the Forum of Intellectuals opposition group, of his
People’s Writer honor and accompanying salary.  “This is a government-orchestrated campaign against me,”
Aylisli say by mobile phone from Baku. “I’ve started to think
about leaving the country. Every day, they speak about me on
television, they show people burning my book.”  ‘Traitor’  The country’s religious authority, the Baku-based Board of
Muslims of the Caucasus, issued a statement today calling
Aylisli a “traitor” and a “renegade.”  Azerbaijan, the largest oil producer in the former Soviet
Union after Russia and Kazakhstan, is still technically at war
with Armenia over the mountainous region of Nagorno-Karabakh,
which broke free of Baku’s control after the Soviet collapse in
1991. About 30,000 people were killed and more than 1 million
displaced during the war, which left Nagorno-Karabakh and seven
adjacent Azeri regions under Armenian control.  Aliyev, an ally of the U.S. and Israel, last year vowed to
take back Nagorno-Karabakh, saying Sept. 11 that Azeri citizens
“must and will return to their native lands.” Aliyev made the
comments less than a month after pardoning an Azeri officer who
was convicted of murdering an Armenian officer with an ax while
they were attending a North Atlantic Treaty Organization course
in Hungary.  Human Rights Watch urged the Azeri government to end the
“hostile campaign of intimidation” against Aylisli, saying on
its website that it has an obligation to protect him.  “Instead, they have led the effort to intimidate him,
putting him at risk with a campaign of vicious smears and
hostile rhetoric,” said Hugh Williamson, Europe and Central
Asia director for the New York-based group, in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zulfugar Agayev in Baku at 
 zagayev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net  