-- Basis Watch Is Step Up in Trackers: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2013-02-13T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/basis-watch-is-step-up-in-trackers-rich-jaroslovsky.html
Forget about the struggle for
eyeballs, or mindshare. The real body-part battleground these
days is your wrist.  The last year has seen an explosion in wearable devices
designed to monitor your activities and sleep, and urge you on
to healthier habits: the Jawbone UP,  Nike + FuelBand and
Larklife, to name three recent examples.  Now a new entrant in the sweepstakes has upped the ante.
It’s the  Basis B1 , a band that tracks everything the others do,
tracks some things they don’t, and tells time, too.  Most activity trackers are built around a motion sensor
called an accelerometer, the same thing that detects when you
turn your smartphone sideways. In a fitness band, it can measure
things like the number of steps and, through body movements, how
long and how deeply you sleep.  The Basis, which costs $199, has one of those. But it also
has an array of other sensors on the back of the watch to
monitor your heart rate, perspiration and skin temperature
throughout the day and night, allowing for more detailed data.  The information is combined with an easy-to-use website and
soon, the company promises, mobile apps to provide tracking and
continuous encouragement.  Fashion Statement  While the Basis won’t be mistaken for a fashion statement,
it isn’t much more obtrusive than a conventional digital watch.
The sensor module is black, but it comes in a choice of black or
white wristbands, and is light enough to be worn comfortably day
and night. (The company has plans for more stylish bands a bit
down the road.)  Since it’s water-resistant, you can wear it in the shower
or when washing dishes. About the only times it needs to come
off are when you’re swimming or using the included proprietary
bracket that connects to a  Windows  PC or Mac USB port to upload
data and charge the watch.  While you’ll get the most out of the band if you sync and
recharge it once a day, the company says a charge will last four
days, and the device can store up to seven days of data.  The game-like website is integral to the device. Through
it, you establish healthy targets that, as you achieve them,
award you points that you use to unlock ever-more challenging
goals.  Basis started me out with the lowest of goals, awarding me
points simply for keeping the watch on. I then set up a few
myself: taking at least 6,000 steps a day, for one, and trying
to adopt a consistent, reasonable bedtime, for another. (No more
11 p.m. “Seinfeld” reruns.)  Additional Targets  As I began to meet those targets, I was able to establish
additional ones: moving around more during the day, burning more
calories and the like. Tapping the watch’s screen gave me real-
time updates on how I was doing.  But the Basis is about more than just goals. Once I
uploaded a few days of data, I could take deeper dives into my
information to find patterns.  For example, while the watch isn’t a substitute for a
dedicated heart monitor for cardio activities, I was able to
compare the levels of exertion between a circuit-training
workout Saturday and a stationary-bike session Sunday.  I also learned I get more sleep than I thought -- perhaps
because the Basis, unlike competing devices, is smart enough to
sense when I doze off and doesn’t have to be manually set in a
sleep mode.  Welcome Companion  Though I generally found the watch a welcome companion, the
screen could be hard to read when I just wanted a quick glance
at the time. And it lacks the silent-alarm feature found on the
 Jawbone UP  and Larklife, among others, that awakens you by
vibrating without rousing a still-sleeping partner.  I also sometimes received error messages when I attempted
to upload data from the watch, even though the transfer was
successful. (The error messages appeared in both the Windows and
Mac versions of the software.)  The principal shortcoming is the lack of mobile apps, which
the company says will be soon remedied: It’s promising delivery
for phones using  Google ’s Android operating system next month,
and for  Apple ’s iOS shortly thereafter. When they launch, the
watch -- which is equipped with Bluetooth -- should be able to
wirelessly transfer your data without need for the bracket-to-
computer connection.  The market for wearable technology is just getting started.
There will be more wellness gadgets, smartphone companions like
the much-buzzed-about  Pebble  watch, and, if you believe the
speculation, even a new Apple device all competing for wrist
space.  Good thing we’ve got two of them.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include Jason Harper on  cars  and Greg Evans
on  movies .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Jaroslovsky in San Francisco at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .
On Twitter: www.twitter.com/richjaro.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 