-- Beijing Air Turns Hazardous as Haze Forecast in Eastern China
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-13T06:42:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/beijing-air-turns-hazardous-as-haze-forecast-in-eastern-china.html
Air quality in China’s capital
Beijing turned “hazardous” while pollution in Shanghai was
rated unhealthy as hazy weather was forecast across parts of the
country’s eastern regions.  Concentrations of PM2.5, fine air particulates that pose
the greatest health risk, rose to 297 micrograms per cubic meter
at 12 p.m. near  Tiananmen Square  from an average of 195 in the
past 24 hours, according to the Beijing Municipal Environmental
Monitoring Center. The rating is the second-worst behind
“severely polluted.”  The U.S. Embassy also graded the air quality in Beijing as
 “hazardous,”  reporting its reading of PM2.5 at 344 micrograms
per cubic meter at 12 p.m. The airborne pollutants, which are
smaller than 2.5 micrometers in diameter, can penetrate deep
into lungs and even enter the blood stream. The World Health
Organization recommends average 24-hour exposures of no higher
than 25.  Pollution in Beijing rose to a record on Jan. 12 with PM2.5
surging as high as 993, sparking criticism of the government’s
management of the environment. The capital’s daily average last
month, of 196, was similar to that in an airport smoking lounge.
 Li Keqiang , set to become China’s next premier, called for
patience as authorities work to reduce emissions.  Sales of fireworks in Beijing have fallen significantly
during the current Lunar New Year holiday as residents exercised
restraint to help ward off smog, the official Xinhua News Agency
reported on Feb. 10, citing Zhou Zhengyu, deputy secretary-
general of the municipal government.  The level of PM2.5 as measured by the  U.S. Consulate  in
Shanghai was 79 at 12 p.m. and air quality was “unhealthy,”
according to a post on the consulate’s Twitter feed. Haze has
reappeared today in parts of China’s eastern regions, reducing
visibly to less than one kilometer, the  China Meteorological
Administration  said in an e-mailed report.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  