-- Bertelsmann Said to Work With Lazard on RTL Group Share Sale
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   R u t h   D a v i d   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2013-02-14T09:52:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/bertelsmann-said-to-work-with-lazard-on-rtl-group-share-sale.html
Bertelsmann SE , Europe’s largest
media company, plans to sell shares in broadcaster RTL Group SA
on the open market, and is working with Lazard Ltd. on the
transaction, said people familiar with the matter.  Bertelsmann and Lazard will probably pick investment banks
this month to underwrite the sale, said the people, who asked
not to be named because the process is private. The banks would
market the shares as they would an initial public offering,
since Bertelsmann owns 92.3 percent of RTL’s stock.  The media company could raise as much as 1.9 billion euros
($2.6 billion) by reducing its stake to 75 percent, based on
RTL’s current share price. The sale gives Bertelsmann Chief
Executive Officer  Thomas Rabe  access to more funds as he seeks
takeover targets to accelerate growth.  Bertelsmann announced on Jan. 31 that it would lower its
stake in Luxembourg-based RTL. Christian Steinhof, a spokesman
for Guetersloh, Germany-based Bertelsmann, declined to comment
beyond the company’s previous statements.  RTL climbed 3 cents to 70.90 euros at 10:50 a.m. in
Brussels, giving the company a market value of 11 billion euros.  Europe’s largest broadcaster previously said that the
timing of further stock sales  would  depend on a “favorable”
market environment. Companies in Europe, the Middle East and
Africa have raised $10.9 billion in share sales this year,
compared with $6.4 billion in the same period a year earlier.  Paring back the stake in RTL would free up Bertelsmann
funds for a larger acquisition, with potential targets including
Deutsche Telekom AG’s online classifieds business Scout24
Holding GmbH as well as Springer Science & Business Media, the
German academic publisher owned by EQT Partners AB, a person
familiar with the matter said previously.  Closely held Bertelsmann’s assets range from magazine
publisher Gruner + Jahr to outsourcing division Arvato. RTL is
its biggest division by revenue and generated about 60 percent
of the group’s earnings before interest and taxes in 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Ruth David in London at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  