-- Bible of Japanese Stocks Sells Out as Rally Wins Converts
-- B y   M a s a a k i   I w a m o t o ,   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a   a n d   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2013-02-14T06:46:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/bible-of-japanese-stocks-sells-out-as-nikkei-rally-wins-converts.html
Atsushi Moriyama, owner of a
bookstore in Tokyo’s financial district, gauges the stock  market 
by sales of the Kaisha Shikiho. The so-called bible of Japanese
equities has been flying off the shelves since December.  “One look at the sales figures and you knew this rally was
going to keep going,” said the 42-year-old at Yuhodo, his shop
in the capital’s Kabuto neighborhood.  The Shikiho’s publisher, Tokyo-based Toyo Keizai Inc., said
it’s run out of the latest edition. That may be a sign of
renewed interest among individual investors, a generation of
whom grew up believing stocks only go down, Bloomberg
Businessweek reports in its Feb. 18 issue. The  Nikkei 225 Stock
Average  last week closed at its highest since September 2008
after a 12-week advance that was the longest such streak since
1959, according to Nikkei Inc.  Sales of the Shikiho, a quarterly guide that packs facts
and figures on Japan’s more than 3,500 listed companies into a
tome about as thick as the Gideon Bible, are just one indicator
of the seachange. Nomura Holdings Inc., Japan’s biggest
brokerage, said 50,000 people applied for its stock seminars in
December, up 75 percent from a year earlier.  Noriko Hachiuma, an office clerk in her 60s, says she may
be ready to test the waters again after losing about 2 million
yen ($21,500) a decade ago.  “I don’t know much about stocks, but this rally got my
attention,” she said in front of the rack of investment
magazines she was browsing at Yuhodo.  The Nikkei 225 rose 0.5 percent to close at 11,307.28
today. The gauge climbed 30 percent since Nov. 14 as the yen
slid after Shinzo Abe , first as a candidate and then as prime
minister, pledged to beat deflation and pushed the Bank of Japan
to ease monetary policy. The benchmark is still about 70 percent
below its 1989 peak.  Idle Wealth  Japan’s households have  1.5 quadrillion yen  in wealth, an
amount about equivalent to the $16 trillion U.S. national debt,
and their reluctance to return to the market may be one reason
shares haven’t rebounded sooner. Stocks accounted for 5.8
percent of people’s assets in September before the rally,
according to Bank of Japan data. That compared with 32.9 percent
in the U.S. and 14.3 percent in Europe.  Moriyama says that may be changing. The bookseller is down
to his last 30 copies of the 400 Shikiho he ordered for the
current quarter and expects to sell out soon. He had to return
more than 100 of the previous edition. The publisher wouldn’t
disclose sales figures for the guide, which is called the Japan
Company Handbook in English.  Active Accounts  Another sign of renewed interest: Matsui Securities Co.,
the largest brokerage that provides data, reached a record
129,765 active accounts last month, adding 15,351 compared with
542 in October before the rally. Monex Securities and Kabu.com
said accounts in use rose to all-time highs in December.  The turnaround in Japanese stocks may have less to do with
Abe’s policies than with the strength of the country’s
companies, which have shut unneeded factories and learned to
cope with years of a strong yen, says  Jesper Koll , Tokyo-based
head of equity research at JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “The number one reason why we are on the verge of a major
turning point is corporate Japan is healthy,” Koll said.  Toyota Motor Corp. is a case in point. The nation’s biggest
company last week raised its operating-profit forecast to 1.15
trillion yen, the most in five years. The projection was based
on the assumption the yen would trade at 81 per dollar, about 15
percent stronger than yesterday’s rate of 93.34. The automaker
says its operating profit rises 35 billion yen for every 1 yen
the currency weakens against the dollar.  While anecdotes about day-trading office workers may bring
to mind the old saying that “it’s time to get out of the market
when even shoeshine boys are giving stock tips,” Moriyama said
frenzy comes in many shades.  “In 2005, couples used to come in together to buy books on
stocks,” he said. “There was a buzz in the store that was
totally different from normal. When it gets like that you know
stocks have hit a peak. We’re not quite there.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaaki Iwamoto in Tokyo at 
 miwamoto4@bloomberg.net ;
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net ;
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  