-- Biggest Dell Holder Has High Opinion of Value: Chart of the Day
-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 2013-02-13T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/biggest-dell-holder-has-high-opinion-of-value-chart-of-the-day.html
Dell Inc.’s biggest outside
shareholder sees far more value in the world’s third-largest
maker of personal computers than others do.  Southeastern Asset Management Inc. said in a letter to
Dell’s board last week that the company is worth at least $24 a
share. The estimate followed a $24.4 billion buyout offer from
Michael Dell, the company’s founder and chief executive, and
Silver Lake Management LLC, a private-equity firm.  As the CHART OF THE DAY illustrates, the value that the
Memphis, Tennessee-based firm sees in Dell is higher than the
stock’s price since September 2008. It’s also well above three
other per-share figures associated with the proposed buyout:  -- $13.65 a share, the value of the offer made by  Michael Dell  and Silver Lake. Dell’s stock closed above that price for
the past two days. The performance raises the possibility of a
higher bid for the company, based in the Austin, Texas, suburb
of Round Rock.  -- $15 a share, an estimate of how high the offer may be
raised.  Peter Misek , an analyst at Jefferies & Co. in New York,
cited the figure in a report yesterday. Misek derived the price
from projected returns on the deal. At $17 a share or more, the
returns would be too low for the buyout to proceed, he wrote.  -- $16.38 a share, an estimate of Dell’s value by  Aswath Damodaran , a finance professor at New York University who has
written books on valuation. Damodaran cited the figure in a
posting yesterday on his Musings on Markets blog.  T. Rowe Price Group Inc., Dell’s second-largest outside
investor, came out against the deal yesterday in a statement
that said the buyout offer was too low. The Baltimore-based firm
didn’t disclose its estimate of the company’s value.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wilson in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Nagi at 
 chrisnagi@bloomberg.net  