-- BlackRock Rushes to Short End as Goldman Alarmed: Credit Markets
-- B y   S a r i k a   G a n g a r   a n d   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2013-02-13T16:53:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/blackrock-rushes-to-short-end-as-goldman-alarmed-credit-markets.html
The world’s biggest buyers of
corporate debt are seeking refuge in shorter-maturity bonds as
concern deepens that a three-decade rally will end in losses as
interest rates rise.  BlackRock Inc.  is planning two actively-managed exchange-
traded funds focused on short-term debt, with one seeking to
have principal repaid within a year, the world’s biggest money
manager said in regulatory filings. Loomis Sayles & Co. has
favored five- and 10-year corporate notes since April as it’s
shifted away from 30-year bonds at its Core Plus Fixed Income
team, which oversees about $9.5 billion, said  Peter Palfrey , a
money manager at the Boston-based firm.  Debt from the most-creditworthy borrowers has become more
vulnerable with the extra yield investors demand to hold the
notes rather than Treasuries declining an unprecedented 4.56
percentage points since the end of 2008, reducing the cushion
that helps preserve gains when benchmark rates rise.  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc.  President  Gary D. Cohn  said this week he’s
concerned some investors don’t understand that bonds will lose
value as benchmark yields inevitably climb from record lows.  “We do see a significant increase in appetite for shorter-
dated, shorter-duration exposures,”  Edward Marrinan , a macro
credit strategist at RBS Securities in Stamford, Connecticut,
said in a telephone interview. “That’s a trend that is gaining
traction.”  More Sensitive  U.S. investment-grade corporate bonds that mature within
one to three years have returned 0.27 percent this year,
compared with a 0.71 percent decline for debt of all maturities,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show. Last year, the
notes underperformed the broader market by 5.9 percentage
points.  Average duration on the high-grade debt, which has gained
an annualized 9.1 percent since the start of 1980, reached a
record 6.95 years on Oct. 31 before declining to 6.78 years as
of yesterday, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.
That compares with 5.4 years in October 2008 during the worst
financial crisis since the Great Depression and a 6.07 year
average over the past decade.  Because prices of longer-maturity bonds are more sensitive
to changes in current market yields than shorter-dated debt, an
equal rise in borrowing costs reduces more value from longer-
dated notes that pay a larger number of coupons.  ‘One Way’  “There is really only one way that interest rates can
go,” Cohn said Feb. 11 in a Bloomberg Television interview.
“I’m concerned that the general public doesn’t quite understand
the pricing of bonds and interest rates and the inverse
correlation between the two.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate debt from default in the U.S. fell, with the Markit
CDX North American Investment Grade Index, which investors use
to hedge against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness,
decreasing 1.4 basis points to a mid-price of 85.9 basis points
as of 11:39 a.m. in New York, according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg.  The index typically falls as investor confidence improves
and rises as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Rate Swaps  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, fell 0.32 basis point to 15.56 basis points
as of 11:39 a.m. in New York. The gauge narrows when investors
favor assets such as company debentures and widens when they
seek the perceived safety of government securities.  Bonds of Comcast Corp. are the most actively traded dollar-
denominated corporate securities by dealers today, accounting
for 6.2 percent of the volume of dealer trades of $1 million or
more, at 11:40 a.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond-
price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority. The largest U.S. cable company said yesterday it will
buy out General Electric Co.’s ownership of NBC Universal for
$16.7 billion.  BlackRock’s iShares Liquidity Income Fund will aim to
oversee a portfolio of dollar-denominated investment-grade debt
with a weighted average life that’s less than one year,
according to a Feb. 4 prospectus. Michael Evan and Richard
Mejzak are set to manage the fund’s debt purchases.  ‘Moving Out’  The firm also has proposed an iShares Short Maturity Bond
Fund, another actively managed ETF that would seek to maintain
an average effective duration of a year or less, according to a
Sept. 5 filing. Fixed-income ETFs, which trade like stocks and
price in real time, are used by retirees to banks to speculate
on debt that’s traditionally traded over the counter.  “We’ve been moving out of a lot of 30-year paper that we
had been in over the summer, when we thought we were being
compensated for the price risk,” said Palfrey, who helps manage
the $1.65 billion  Loomis Sayles Core Plus Bond Fund . The shift
has been more pronounced in holdings of junk bonds, rated below
Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- at
Standard & Poor’s.  “We want to be positioned such that over the next 12
months we have less interest rate sensitivity than the rest of
the market,” Palfrey said in a telephone interview from Boston.  Concern that investment-grade bonds are poised for losses
is mounting as 10-year Treasury yields rise to about the highest
level in 10 months.  Yields  on Treasuries increased to 1.98
percent as of yesterday, up from 1.76 percent at year-end and
compared with a record-low of 1.39 percent on July 24, Bloomberg
data show.  Unemployment Rise  “For people that were staying in the short-end of the
duration spectrum, we welcome the move to higher rates,” said
 Thomas Murphy , who oversees about $26 billion of investment-
grade credit at Columbia Management Investment Advisers LLC in
Minneapolis. “We’re excited about it.”  The  Federal Reserve  has held benchmark interest rates in a
range of zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008 and plans $85
billion in monthly bond purchases to ignite an economy still
recovering from the credit crisis.  The government intends to suppress borrowing costs for the
world’s largest economy as long as unemployment remains above
6.5 percent and inflation remains no more than 2.5 percent. The
 jobless rate  rose to 7.9 percent last month from 7.8 percent in
November and December.  Last year, longer-maturity debt outperformed shorter bonds.
Dollar-denominated investment-grade bonds maturing in 10 years
or more returned 13.2 percent last year, compared with 6.6
percent on notes due in one to five years, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data show.  This year, the debt maturing in one to five years has
gained 0.23 percent versus a loss of 2.3 percent on bonds
maturing in 10 years or longer.  “People want to move out of rates, long-duration type
assets,”  James Keenan , the head of BlackRock’s $28 billion
leveraged finance unit, said in a Feb. 8 Bloomberg Television
interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarika Gangar in New York at 
 sgangar@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  