-- Blackstone to OSG Win Record Tanker Rates on Export Ban: Freight
-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n   a n d   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2013-02-13T17:32:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/blackstone-to-osg-win-record-tanker-rates-on-export-ban-freight.html
Oil tankers that move crude between
U.S. ports are reaping windfall profits as domestic production
surges and American laws prohibit exports.  Rates for Jones Act tankers, the only kind permitted to
haul domestic fuel cargoes, jumped 87 percent to $85,978 a day
in the past year, and the average cost will reach a record in
2013, according to Poten & Partners Inc., the New York-based
maritime consultant. The largest owners include  Overseas
Shipholding Group Inc. , which sought bankruptcy protection in
November, and American Petroleum Tankers Parent LLC, a company
controlled by Blackstone Group LP funds.  Extraction of oil from shale formations in the U.S. helped
increase output to 6.2 million barrels a day in 2012, the most
since 1998, cutting imports. That’s boosting coastal shipments
as oil companies move crude to domestic refineries because the
world’s second-largest energy-consuming nation prohibits exports
of most crude. The Jones Act bars foreign ships from the trade.  “The increase in U.S. crude production is ultimately
what’s driving the demand,” analyst  Erik Nikolai Stavseth  at
investment bank Arctic Securities ASA, whose recommendations on
shipping stocks returned 19 percent in the past year, said by
phone from Oslo on Feb. 7. “The situation won’t change for as
long as the law exists.”  Higher Rates  Rates for single-voyage charters averaged $98,947 a day so
far this year, compared with an average of $55,947 through 2012,
which was the highest in data stretching back to 2001, according
to Poten. Almost all the ships are locked into long-term
charters, so there are few available for additional cargoes,
according to  Jeff McGee , the head of marine research and
consulting at Poten. The higher spot prices help owners to renew
or negotiate better long-term contracts, according to Stavseth.  The output expansion is causing pipeline operators such as
Calgary-based Enbridge Inc. to reverse the direction of oil
conduits that once took international cargoes 500 miles inland.
The switch will bring as much as 400,000 barrels a day of crude
to the Gulf of Mexico, where more than 55 refineries are
located, from Cushing, Oklahoma.  Domestic railroad shipments are also expanding. The first
delivery of shale oil from the Bakken formation in the Midwest
arrived this month at PBF Energy Inc.’s  Delaware City refinery 
as rail capacity almost tripled to 110,000 barrels a day, the
Parsippany, New Jersey-based company said in a statement Feb. 4.
The company said it’s spending $50 million to double heavy-crude
unloading capacity by the end of the year.  Gulf of Mexico  The increase in shale-oil supply is pushing up cargoes for
Jones Act tankers between ports in the Gulf of Mexico, a trade
that didn’t exist two years ago,  Morten Arntzen , who resigned
Feb. 11 as chief executive officer of New York-based Overseas
Shipholding, said by phone four days earlier.  Robert Johnston ,
his successor, was unavailable for an interview, company
spokeswoman Helen Harris said by e-mail yesterday.  “It’s cash flow that matters, and we’re seeing very
healthy cash flow generated by the Jones Act fleet,” Arntzen
said. “Clearly the international crude markets are challenged.
The demand for Jones Act tankers makes OSG a more appealing
investment.”  The oil boom is having the reverse effect for Overseas
Shipholding’s vessels operating globally because it’s driving
down imports to the U.S. The company filed for bankruptcy
protection on Nov. 14 amid the worst slump in global crude-
shipping rates for more than a decade.  Worst Since 1997  Owners are paying $17,963 a day toward fuel costs to bring
Middle East crude to the U.S., the worst market since at least
1997, according to data from London-based Clarkson Plc, the
world’s largest shipbroker. Companies sometimes pay part of fuel
costs because the alternative is sailing empty and covering the
entire expense, which can be as much as $60,000 a day.  Overseas Shipholding  listed assets of $4.15 billion and
debt of $2.67 billion in its November filing in a Delaware
bankruptcy court. Three weeks earlier, it said previous years’
financial statements couldn’t be relied upon and that it was
exploring options including bankruptcy protection because of “a
tax issue arising from the fact that the company is domiciled in
the United States and has substantial international
operations.”  Overseas Shipholding bonds reached the lowest level since
November today after the Internal Revenue Service said the
company owes more than $463 million in taxes. The shipper’s $300
million of 8.125 percent senior unsecured bonds due March 2018
fell as much as 8.9 cents on the dollar to 30 cents, according
to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority.  Seacor, ConocoPhillips  Overseas Shipholding didn’t immediately reply to an e-mail
and phone call today to its media-relations office in Tampa,
Florida.  Its fleet of 107 ships includes 22 Jones Act vessels, more
than any other owner, according to Overseas Shipholding’s
website and data compiled by Bloomberg. Ten are on long-term
charters to the company. Seacor Holdings Inc., based in Fort
Lauderdale, Florida, is the second-biggest with six of the
tankers. American Petroleum has five, the same as Houston-based
ConocoPhillips, according to the data compiled by Bloomberg.  The rally will have less effect on Seacor or Blackstone
than on Overseas Shipholding. American Petroleum had a $35.6
million net loss in 2011, according to the most recent
regulatory filing on the Plymouth Meeting, Pennsylvania-based
company’s website. That’s about 1.4 percent of the $2.52 billion
in net income that  Blackstone , the largest private-equity firm,
will make this year, according to the median of 13 analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Seacor had revenue of $1.45
billion for the first three quarters of 2012.  ‘Limited Supply’  “It will be a very strong year,” American Petroleum CEO
Robert Kurtz said by phone Feb. 7. “Demand is picking up and
there’s a limited supply of vessels. Demand is driven by shale-
oil production over the last six to 12 months.”  Overseas Shipholding stock rose 11 percent this year to
$0.94 in New York trading, while the six-company  Bloomberg
Tanker Index  added 9.2 percent. Shares of New York-based
Blackstone climbed 16 percent to $18.07.  Investors who purchase Overseas Shipholding stock are
speculating the company’s  lenders and bondholders  will be paid
back, leaving money for equity investors, said  David Beard , an
analyst at Iberia Capital Partners LLC in New Orleans, who has
covered the maritime industry for about 15 years. He stopped
following the tanker company after the bankruptcy.  Costly Vessels  Overseas Shipholding’s Jones Act fleet may continue to
strengthen because of the expense of building new ships. A
medium-range tanker with a capacity of 50,000 deadweight tons
costs as much as $120 million to build domestically, three times
more than by international constructors, according to a
September presentation by New Canaan, Connecticut-based Moran
Towing Corp., which owns and operates 95 tugs and barges,
serving 16 ports.  “There are no spot ships available,” Poten’s McGee said
by phone Feb. 5. “There aren’t even period ships available.
It’s a very tight market because it’s supply-constrained, and
there’s not much near-term opportunity for relief.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net ;
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  