-- King Says U.K. Faces Inflation Bout Plus Weak Growth
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-02-13T16:13:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/boe-sees-above-goal-inflation-for-two-years-amid-recovery-risks.html
Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King 
said Britain faces a further bout of inflation and a muted
economic recovery, and pledged officials will look through the
volatility in prices to keep nurturing growth where they can.  “ Inflation  is likely to rise further in the near term and
may remain above the 2 percent target for the next two years,”
King said as he presented the central bank’s Inflation Report in
London today. “The MPC’s remit is to deliver price stability in
the medium term in a way that avoids undesirable volatility in
output in the short run. The prospect of a further prolonged
period of above-target inflation must therefore be considered
alongside the weakness of the real economy.”  The pound fell as King spoke on the dilemma of a weak
recovery and above-target inflation that has plagued the
Monetary Policy Committee for more than three years and is set
to overshadow the last few months of his tenure. The BOE said
today it sees inflation at about 2.3 percent at the end of its
two-year forecast period, and a “slow and sustained” recovery.  “If necessary, we will do more,” King told reporters.
“We must recognize, however, that there are limits to what can
be achieved via general monetary stimulus -- in any form -- on
its own.”  The pound fell 0.8 percent against the dollar to $1.5544 as
of 4:07 p.m. London time. It earlier declined to $1.5524, the
lowest in more than six months. Government bonds fell, pushing
the 10-year yield up 11 basis points to 2.21 percent.  Inflation Outlook  In its report, the BOE said the outlook for  consumer-price
growth  is higher than forecast in November because of the weaker
pound and increases in energy bills. It also warned that weak
productivity is boosting domestic cost pressures.  “Attempting to bring inflation back to the target sooner
by removing the current policy stimulus more quickly than
currently anticipated by financial markets would risk derailing
the recovery and undershooting the target in the medium term,”
the BOE said in the report. The MPC said it “stood ready” to
add to stimulus if needed.  “While there is little room for further monetary easing in
the current committee’s mind, there is equally little appetite
for any tightening in policy,” said  David Tinsley , an economist
at BNP Paribas SA in London and a former Bank of England
official. “Our assumption remains that there will be no more
quantitative easing on the current governor’s watch.”  King is due to retire at the end of June and will be
succeeded by Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney .  ‘Cause for Optimism’  The MPC left its  benchmark interest rate  at a record low of
0.5 percent last week and the target for its bond purchases at
375 billion pounds. Financial markets don’t have an interest-
rate increase fully priced in until the fourth quarter of 2015.  King noted that “there is cause for optimism,” and that,
just as there was 20 years ago, “a recovery is in sight.” He
pointed to the fact that there is a “more encouraging
underlying picture” in the economy than overall data including
construction might suggest.  Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s view is that the U.K.
economy is “healing,” his spokesman,  Jean-Christophe Gray ,
told reporters today in London.  The central bank also offered what it said was a
“cautious” view of the potential impact of its Funding for
Lending Scheme, noting that uncertainty among consumers and
companies may curb demand for loans. It also said that banks are
only partly through balance-sheet repair and that competition
between lenders may need to improve.  “The MPC’s projections assume that improved credit
conditions are accompanied by a modest rise in the demand for
loans and that this feeds through fairly slowly into aggregate
demand and effective supply,” it said. “That relatively
cautious stance reflects a judgment that the private sector is
still adjusting to the reassessment of economic prospects.”  Inflation Outlook   U.K. inflation  held at 2.7 percent last month, the highest
rate since May. On the outlook, the Bank of England blamed the
weaker pound, increases in prices of regulated items such as
university tuition and utility bills, and weak productivity. The
pound has fallen 3.7 percent versus the dollar since the start
of the year and is down about 6 percent against the euro.  “What we have been surprised by since the last report is
the impact of these administered prices in pushing inflation
up,” King said. “It is a bit of a self-inflicted goal in terms
of the damage done to real take-home pay, perhaps another way of
trying to implement fiscal consolidation through moving up the
price level. This is not the result of easy monetary policy and
nor does it reflect what’s going on in the economy.”  Slow Recovery  Britain’s economy  shrank 0.3 percent in the fourth quarter
of 2012 after a year of what King has called “zig zag” pattern
of growth. The central bank said today that over the past 12
months, overall output has been “broadly flat.”  It forecast a “slow but sustained recovery” for the U.K.
supported by its loose monetary policy and an improvement in the
global environment. Still, it noted downside risks, including
from continued threats from the euro-area debt crisis.  Data today showed that euro-area industrial production
increased 0.7 percent in December, more than economists
forecast, adding to signs the economy may be gaining strength
after slipping into a recession last year.  In the U.S.,  retail sales  rose 0.1 percent in January,
compared with a 0.5 percent increase in December, as an increase
in payroll taxes took a bite out of consumers’ paychecks.
Separately,  inventories  climbed in December at the slowest pace
in six months.  King said that optimism in financial markets may not
reflect the underlying data on economies around the world. The
FTSE 100 Index has gained 7.5 percent this year, adding to its
5.8 percent increase over 2012.  “I am concerned that some of the optimism of financial
markets, welcome though it is to have that degree of optimism,
may not be consistent with the speed at which the underlying
data are likely to change in terms of trade positions and
growth, particularly in other countries in the world,” King
said. “The underlying data don’t seem to be living up to the
optimism in financial markets. That may change. Maybe financial
markets may be proved right.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Svenja O’Donnell  in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  