-- Bond Traders Whip CPI Angst as India to Hungary Cut Rates
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2013-02-13T23:10:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/bond-traders-whip-inflation-angst-as-india-to-hungary-cut-rates.html
From Mexico to Poland, bond
investors are lowering their outlook for inflation in developing
markets to a nine-month low, giving central bankers room to cut
interest rates and boost their economies.  The difference between fixed-rate bond yields and those
indexed to consumer prices show investors expect Mexico’s
inflation to average 3.22 percent in the next two years, near
the slowest since May. A similar Polish measure fell to 2.09
percent last month, the lowest since at least April.  Emerging-
market bonds  gained 5 percent in dollar terms during the three
months through yesterday, the most in a year, compared with 0.1
percent for government securities worldwide, JPMorgan Chase &
Co. and Bank of America Corp. indexes show.  “We see only moderate growth compared to recent years, and
these solid but hardly effervescent economic conditions should
keep inflation in check,”  Alessandro Bee , an economist and
fixed-income strategist in Zurich at Bank Sarasin & Cie AG,
which oversees 99 billion Swiss francs ($108 billion), said in a
phone interview on Feb. 4. “That’s a really nice environment
for local bond markets.”  While investors see inflation in the biggest emerging
markets such as China and Brazil rising, the tame outlook
elsewhere will allow policy makers to focus on bolstering the
weakest economic growth since 2009 through lower rates,
according to Bank of America.  IMF View  The rate of inflation in developing markets will remain at
6.1 percent in 2013, slowing from a four-year high of 7.2
percent in 2011,  the International Monetary Fund  in Washington
said last month.  India, Poland, Colombia and Hungary have cut borrowing
costs this year, in part because consumer prices are under
control. Traders anticipate looser monetary policy in South
Korea, Poland, Colombia and Hungary, according to a Morgan
Stanley model that tracks interest-rate swaps.  That’s a reversal from two years ago, when a 55 percent
jump in the Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24  raw materials  in
11 months through April 2011 pushed up consumer prices and led
central banks from China to Brazil to raise borrowing costs.  Brazil boosted rates 3.75 percentage points to 12.5 percent
in the 15 months through July 2011. China lifted its one-year
lending rate five times in nine months starting October 2010.  Growth Throttled  Those moves throttled emerging-market growth to 6.3 percent
in 2011 from 7.4 percent the year before, and punished bond
investors, with JPMorgan’s  GBI-EM Global Diversified Index 
losing 4.9 percent in dollar terms between mid-October 2010 and
mid-January. That was worse than the loss of 3.6 percent for
government securities worldwide, according to the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch Global Government Index.  In Mexico, central bank board members led by Governor
 Agustin Carstens  unanimously decided to leave the benchmark
interest rate at a record low 4.5 percent on Jan. 18, and
signaled this month that they may lower borrowing costs for the
first time since 2009 as inflation moderates.  Consumer prices in Mexico rose at a 3.25 percent annualized
rate in January, the slowest pace since October 2011, after
falling within the central bank’s target range of 2 percent to 4
percent in December for the first time since May.  Slower Pace  Banco de Mexico may cut rates “if we keep advancing in
this convergence process” with inflation moving closer to 3
percent in a “sustainable way,” Carstens said told reporters
in Mexico City today.  The two-year breakeven rate in Mexico narrowed from a 16-
month high of 4.54 percentage points in July, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The rate averaged 4.04 percentage points
since October 2006, when Bloomberg started compiling the data.  Peso-denominated bonds returned 4.5 percent in January, the
most since June, Bank of America indexes show. The 21 percent
gain last year was the most since 2002, and exceeded the 4.54
percent for government bonds globally.  Colombia’s 10-year breakeven rate fell to 2.7 percent on
Jan. 23, the lowest level since February 2012, when Bloomberg
started compiling the data. Colombia’s bonds gained 8 percent in
the past three months, the most since February 2012, JPMorgan
data show.  South Korea’s policy makers may cut the nation’s benchmark
to 2.5 percent from 2.75 percent in six months, while Poland’s
central bank will lower its rate by a half-percentage point to a
record low 3.25 percent, Morgan Stanley data show.  Opposite Direction  At the same time inflation is slowing, so is the economy.
The IMF cut its growth forecast for emerging markets this year
by 0.1 percentage point to 5.5 percent on Jan. 23, citing weaker
demand from advanced economies. That compares with an average
growth rate of 6.6 percent over the past decade.  In developed economies, the outlook for inflation is moving
in the opposite direction as central banks attempting to
stimulate growth buy sovereign-debt securities to pump money
into the financial system and contain long-term borrowing costs.  The U.S.  five-year breakeven rate  reached a four-month high
of 2.36 percentage points on Feb. 1, above the average of 1.96
percentage points in the 10 years through 2012.  The gauge for  the U.K.  climbed today to 2.88 percentage
points, the highest since April 2011. Britain faces a further
bout of inflation and a muted economic recovery, Bank of England
Governor Mervyn King said in London.  Inflation in emerging markets won’t accelerate in a
“particularly strong way,” making bonds from these regions
more attractive than those in the developed world,  Phillip Apel ,
the head of diversified fixed income and rates at Henderson
Global Investors Ltd., said in an interview from Singapore on
Jan. 25.  Little Protection  “Government bonds in developed markets are out of favor,”
said Apel, who manages about $105 billion from London. They
offer “little protection against a rise in yields.”  Emerging-market bonds returned 17 percent in dollar terms
last year, the most since 2009. Yields average 3.47 percentage
points  above  Treasuries on Feb 1, the least since April 2011.
The spread is 0.18 percentage point above the average over the
past decade.  Investors poured a record $1.3 billion into funds dedicated
to emerging-market local-currency bonds in the week through Feb.
6, according to Morgan Stanley, citing data compiled by EPFR
Global. They withdrew $300 million out of dollar-denominated
bond funds, the bank said in a Feb. 7 report.  Brazil is one emerging market that will see elevated
inflation, based on bond yields. The nation’s consumer price
index will average 5.5 percent by 2014, according to  breakeven
data  compiled by Bloomberg. The gauge reached 6.12 percent on
Jan. 8, the highest level since September.  Prices Jump  Brazil’s  consumer prices  jumped 6.15 percent in the year
through January, the fastest pace in a year. Inflation has been
above 4.5 percent, the midpoint of the central bank’s target of
2.5 percent to 6.5 percent for the last 29 months even as the
economy expanded at the second slowest pace since 1999.
Inflation is at a high level that requires attention, the
central bank said Feb. 7.   Turkey’s  inflation will average 6.1 percent in two years,
compared with the government’s target of 5 percent, breakeven
rates show. In Asia, rising exports and a growing Chinese
economy is lifting inflation estimates in the region.  The Philippines will raise benchmark rates three times this
year to stem inflation, according to  Michael Spencer , Deutsche
Bank AG’s chief Asia economist.  “The world has priced in for permanently low inflation,”
 Paul McNamara , who oversees $9 billion in emerging-market debt
at GAM Investment in London, said in a telephone interview on
Jan. 28. “There’s no question that it is going to shoot up. Is
it going to be a big problem? No. Normalization? Yes.”  McNamara said he’s reducing holdings of longer-dated fixed-
rate bonds and buying inflation-linked debt securities.  ‘Dovish Stance’  Most emerging-market central banks will delay raising
borrowing costs and tolerate faster price increases to cement
the economic recovery, benefiting inflation-linked bonds over
fixed-rated securities, according to  Koon Chow , the head of
emerging-market strategy in London at Barclays Plc.  “Emerging market central banks will be reluctant to change
course on monetary policy,” Chow, who recommends buying Polish
CPI-linked bonds, wrote in a Jan. 25 e-mail message. “This will
probably help a majority of central banks hold a more dovish
stance.”  Central bankers see little chance of a repeat of 2010. The
 S&P index of commodities  is 11 percent below its peak in August
2011. Food prices tracked by the United Nations fell 0.5 percent
last year, extending its drop to 12 percent since the peak in
February 2011.  Food costs  accounted for 27 percent of consumer
price indexes in developing nations, compared with 16 percent in
developed economies, according to Bank of America.  Surprise Index  Citigroup’s  surprise index  tracking average consumer price
increases in emerging markets relative to economists’ forecasts
fell to minus 18.9 in January, the lowest reading since November
2009. A negative reading indicates the actual inflation report
trails economists’ forecasts, while a positive number indicates
higher-than-expected consumer price increases. The measure
reached 7.4 in March 2011, the highest since October 2008.  India lowered its benchmark repurchase rate on Jan. 29 to
7.75 percent from 8 percent, marking the first cut since April,
as inflation fell to a three-year low.  Hours later, Hungarian policy makers lowered their main
rate for a sixth month, reducing the two-week deposit rate by a
quarter-point to 5.5 percent, the lowest since March 2010.  ‘Too Early’  It would take greater-than-forecast growth and a 25 percent
surge in food prices to really “get inflation going,”
according to  Alberto Ades , head of emerging-market fixed-income
strategy at Bank of America. Even in that scenario, inflation
will be 1.1 percentage points lower than the July 2011 peak,
strategists led by Ades wrote in a note on Jan. 24.  “We like emerging-market local bonds,”  Lazlo Belgrado , a
money manager who helps oversees about $20 billion in emerging-
market debt at KBC Asset Management SA, said by phone from
Luxembourg. ‘It’s too early for the growth-driven inflation
scare.’’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net ;
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  