-- Bonds Asks Court to Overturn Obstruction Conviction
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-02-13T19:44:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/bonds-asks-court-to-overturn-obstruction-conviction.html
Lawyers for  Barry Bonds , Major
League Baseball’s home-run record holder, who was rejected for
the sport’s Hall of Fame last month, asked a federal appeals
court to overturn his 2011 conviction for obstructing a U.S.
probe of steroid use.  Bonds, 48, was the first Major League Baseball player to be
charged in a years-long federal probe of steroid use in
professional sports. He was found guilty in federal court in San
Francisco of making evasive statements to a 2003 grand jury
examining performance-enhancing drug use among pro athletes.  When he was asked whether his trainer ever gave him
anything that needed to be injected with a syringe, Bonds didn’t
immediately say yes or no, and instead spoke about being a
“celebrity child” and not talking baseball with the trainer.
Later, he answered no to the question.  The grand jury didn’t consider Bonds’s 52-word “celebrity
child” answer when deciding whether to indict him, and the
response itself wasn’t charged in the indictment, so the
obstruction conviction must be thrown out, Dennis Riordan,
Bonds’s lawyer, told a three-judge panel of the U.S. Court of
Appeals today in San Francisco.  “There is one thing we know for sure, this grand jury did
not consider that those 52 words were criminal activity,”
Riordan said. “That is a dagger in the heart of this
conviction.”  Mistrial Declared  The jury couldn’t agree on whether Bonds lied when he
denied ever getting injections by anyone other than his doctor,
injecting anything from his trainer and receiving injectable
testosterone from the trainer. A mistrial was declared on those
three perjury charges.  Despite that outcome, the “celebrity child” response -- a
reference to his father, Bobby Bonds, a three-time All-Star who
played for the Giants and the New York Yankees -- didn’t have to
be in the indictment for the jury to have found that Bonds
obstructed justice, Assistant U.S. Attorney Merry Jean Chan
said.  Bonds was on notice that he was testifying under oath to
the grand jury about distribution by his trainer and others of
steroids to athletes, she said. The indictment charged Bonds
with impeding the steroid investigation by giving false
statements “including but not limited to” lying about taking
performance enhancing drugs, which encompasses everything he
said that was meant to be evasive, she said.  ‘Obstructive Activity’  “The indictment very clearly charges the defendant with
obstructive activity that was false,” Chan said. “And that it
was ‘included but not limited to’ the statements in the perjury
counts.”  Justice Michael Daly Hawkins  said Bonds ultimately gave a
direct answer of “no” to the question about whether his
trainer  Greg Anderson  ever gave him an injectable substance.  “How was the grand jury misled by that?” Hawkins asked.
“He dodges and dips and talks about stuff that wasn’t
responsive, then is asked one more time and gives an answer that
is not evasive.”  If a defendant “finally fesses up and is no longer
evasive, can he or she be obstructing” justice? the judge
asked.  “Yes, the whole statement is delaying” the truth, Chan
said. “It was a calculated deception.”  The panel didn’t say when it would issue a ruling, which
could take weeks or months.  ‘Famous Father’  Former Yankees player  Jason Giambi  and other athletes
testified at Bonds’s trial that the slugger’s trainer provided
them with injectable testosterone and syringes. In his grand
jury testimony, Bonds said only his personal physician touched
him and he didn’t talk baseball with his trainer because he was
a “celebrity child with a famous father.”  Bonds was sentenced to two years’ probation, 30 days of
house arrest and 250 hours of community service, and fined
$4,000. He appealed the conviction and sentence in December
2011.  Bonds and  Roger Clemens , two of the sport’s most decorated
players, were snubbed in voting for baseball’s Hall of Fame in
January. Each got about half of the percentage of votes needed
for induction. Clemens was acquitted in June of charges that he
lied to Congress about his use of performance-enhancing drugs.  Bonds broke Hank Aaron’s record of 755 career home runs in
August 2007. He was indicted in November of that year.  The case is U.S. v Bonds, 11-10669, U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Ninth Circuit (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  