-- NYC Brill Building to Be Sold to Allied Partners Group
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t   a n d   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2013-02-13T16:05:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/brill-building-said-to-sell-to-allied-for-200-million.html
Manhattan’s Brill Building, where
songwriters such as  Burt Bacharach  and  Neil Diamond  penned pop
hits, is being sold to investors led by  Allied Partners Inc. ,
who plan to redevelop its office and retail space.  The group will pay about $200 million for the property at
1619 Broadway, three blocks north of Times Square, to an  Invesco
Ltd.  fund by the end of June, said a person briefed on the deal
who was not authorized to speak publicly. New York-based
Stonehenge Management LLC is Invesco’s partner in the building.  The buyers intend to modernize the 175,000-square-foot
(16,300-square-meter) property “into a premier retail and
specialty office building,” New York-based Allied said in an e-
mailed statement. They plan to renovate the upper floors and
create offices designed to appeal to entertainment-industry
tenants, the company said.  The property has housed Colony Records for about four
decades and was a bastion of American popular songwriting during
the early 1960s, according to the website  nycgo.com . The
building at the corner of 49th Street, named after a clothing
store that once occupied part of it, is located in an area
popular with tourists and filled with retailers and restaurants.  Colony planned to close its record store in the building as
a shift to digital music sales led to a decline in revenue, the
New York Times reported on Aug. 23.  Allied Partners, founded in 1993 by investor  Eric Hadar ,
specializes in redeveloping properties including hotels, retail,
and office and multifamily residential buildings, mostly in
Manhattan.  Jessica Proud, a spokeswoman for Stonehenge at public
relations firm Nicholas & Lence Communications LLC, declined to
comment on the transaction.  Bill Hensel , a spokesman for
Atlanta-based Invesco, didn’t respond to a telephone call and e-
mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net ;
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  