-- Britvic May Revive A.G. Barr Merger After U.K. Decision
-- B y   P a u l   J a r v i s
-- 2013-02-14T12:07:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/britvic-a-g-barr-merger-pulled-as-regulator-raises-concerns.html
Britvic Plc  and  A.G. Barr Plc  said
they may revive merger plans should a regulatory review of the
abandoned U.K. soft-drinks deal reach a favorable conclusion.  The drinkmakers expect to demonstrate to antitrust
overseers that the combination won’t lead to a “substantial”
reduction in competition, the companies said in a second
response to yesterday’s decision by the U.K. Office of Fair
Trading to refer the proposed share-exchange transaction to the
Competition Commission. A.G. Barr said yesterday that it was
calling off the transaction because of the additional review.  “If clearance is received from the Competition Commission
on terms satisfactory to both, A.G. Barr and Britvic,” the
manufacturers’ boards “will each reconsider at that time the
terms of a possible merger,” the companies said today in a
joint statement.  Shares of Hemel Hempstead, England-based Britvic and
Cumbernauld, Scotland-based A.G. Barr extended declines today on
concern that reviving the deal may not be possible. The OFT said
yesterday that a merger raised questions over a possible
reduction in competition between A.G. Barr’s Irn-Bru and
Orangina brands and Pepsi and Tango, which Britvic sells in the
U.K. for  PepsiCo Inc.  The Competition Commission has six months
to investigate.  “There remains a substantial appetite among both boards to
complete this merger, and we are of the opinion that should the
terms of the merger be renegotiated, Britvic are likely to be in
a stronger position,”  Damian McNeela , an analyst at Panmure
Gordon, said in a note.  Stock Drops  Britvic  fell  as much as 8.6 percent in London trading
today, following yesterday’s 8.7 percent drop. The stock was
trading down 8.3 percent at 385 pence at 12:02 p.m., reducing
the company’s market value to 935 million pounds ($1.45
billion).  A.G. Barr  dropped 2.9 percent to 500.5 pence,
extending yesterday’s 7.1 percent decline and cutting the
drinkmaker’s market value to 584 million pounds.  The OFT’s decision “seems bewildering” given the
“relatively small” share of the U.K. soft-drinks market held
by the companies’ brands, McNeela wrote.  Britvic and A.G. Barr said in September that they were in
talks. The combined companies had a market value of about 1.4
billion pounds at the time, and the business would have been one
of the largest makers of soft drinks in Europe.  At the time of the announcement, Britvic was the second-
largest supplier of soft drinks to the 7 billion-pound U.K.
take-home market and the biggest supplier to the pubs and
restaurant industry, worth about 2.7 billion pounds, according
to data from Nielsen Scantrack.  A.G. Barr ranked fifth by volume in the take-home market,
dominated by  Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc.   To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Jarvis in London at 
 pjarvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  