-- Bullard Says Economic Growth Will Probably Accelerate
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-02-13T21:09:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/bullard-says-economic-growth-will-probably-accelerate.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  said signs of more stability in U.S.
fiscal policy, the housing market and the global economy will
probably help fuel economic growth in 2013.  “This year seems to be characterized by less macroeconomic
uncertainty compared to previous years,” Bullard said today in
a speech in Jonesboro, Arkansas. “This bodes well for U.S.
macroeconomic prospects in 2013.”  Bullard backed the Federal Open Market Committee decision
last month to continue buying bonds at a rate of $85 billion a
month after gross domestic product fell 0.1 percent in the
fourth quarter. Policy makers have pushed the benchmark interest
rate close to zero and expanded Fed assets to a record exceeding
$3 trillion to fuel growth and reduce 7.9 percent unemployment.  U.S. economic weakness from last quarter persisted in
January. Consumption slowed last month, with retail sales rising
0.1 percent after a 0.5 percent increase in December, hurt by
higher payroll taxes, Commerce Department figures  showed  today.  Most Fed policy makers expect growth of 2.3 percent to 3
percent this year, according to forecasts in December. Bullard
said to reporters today the economy will probably expand 3.2
percent both this year and in 2014, with the unemployment rate
falling to 7.2 percent by the end of this year.  Incremental Changes  As the labor market improves, the Fed should reduce its
monthly bond purchases, making incremental changes similar to
how it alters its target interest rate, Bullard, 51, said to
reporters after his speech.  “As you see improvement, you should acknowledge that
improvement and say, ‘we’ll go down to $75 billion a month,’”
he said. Before recommending a change to the Fed’s current rate
of bond buying, Bullard said he wants “to see through the
spring at least how the economy develops.”  In his prepared remarks to Arkansas State University’s
agribusiness conference, Bullard said, “Housing markets appear
to be more robust” compared with a year ago, when a continued
decline in housing prices seemed possible.  “The trend is definitely upward in those prices” and a
decline “has been taken off the table,” Bullard said.  Responding to audience questions, the St. Louis Fed leader
said low inflation has allowed the central bank to be more
aggressive with stimulus. “Because inflation is running below
our 2 percent target, the Fed has some room to maneuver.”  Create Distortions  Still, Bullard said he is concerned low interest rates may
cause distortions in asset prices. He said he is monitoring the
market for farmland for signs of a price bubble, noting the
challenge of determining whether fundamental factors like
increased demand have recently pushed up land prices.  “Low rates are one aspect of higher farmland prices,” he
said. “I have been concerned and continue to be concerned”
about the potential for a bubble.  U.S. stocks pared early advances, with the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index adding less than 0.1 percent to 1,520.28 at 4
p.m. in New York. The 10-year Treasury note yield rose four
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 2.02 percent.  The U.S. elections last year cleared up some uncertainty,
with fiscal concerns “partially resolved,” he said. Also, the
European Central Bank’s commitment to stimulate regional growth
has improved Europe’s outlook.  “While 2012 was marked by a clear downshift in Euro-area
economic growth, 2013 will likely see either a stabilization or
some recovery,” he said. “In this sense the uncertainty
concerning the European outlook has been reduced.”  “Emerging-market economies slowed during 2012, in part due
to the European recession, but these economies are now expected
to fare better in 2013,” Bullard said. China’s economic growth
recently has been “stronger,” he said.  Bullard joined the St. Louis Fed’s research department in
1990 and became president of the regional bank in 2008. His
district includes all of Arkansas and parts of Illinois,
Indiana, Kentucky, Mississippi, Missouri and Tennessee.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steve Matthews  in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  