-- California Insurers Decrease Iran-Linked Holdings 97%
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-02-13T20:29:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/california-insurers-decrease-iran-linked-holdings-97-.html
Insurers doing business in
California reduced investments in Iran-linked companies by about
97 percent since 2009 under pressure from the state’s industry
regulator.  The investments in companies that do business with Iran’s
military, energy and nuclear sector fell to about $198 million
from $6 billion, California Insurance Commissioner  Dave Jones 
said today at a press conference in Los Angeles. He said
companies including State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co.,
and units of Cigna Corp. and ING Groep NV are among insurers
that still have the holdings.  The U.S. and European Union have placed sanctions on Iran,
saying it’s working on nuclear weapons. President  Barack Obama 
said in his State of the Union address yesterday that the U.S.
will do “what is necessary” to prevent the country from
obtaining nuclear arms. California insurance regulators have
pushed insurers to divest from Iran for years, Jones said.  “State Farm’s investments are in full compliance with all
applicable laws and regulations,” Bob Devereux, a State Farm
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. “While we respect the
California Department of Insurance’s interest, we believe
foreign policy and rules on foreign investments can be most
effectively addressed by the federal government.”  Policyholder-owned State Farm, based in Bloomington,
Illinois, has an equities portfolio of more than $50 billion.
The top holdings are International Business Machines Corp. and
Exxon Mobil Corp., according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Cigna, the third-biggest U.S. health insurer by market value,
had an investment portfolio that exceeded $23 billion at year-
end, according to a supplement released this month.  No Lawbreaking  California’s identification of insurers with Iran-linked
investments isn’t meant to imply the holdings are unlawful,
Jones said in a statement. The department can’t force insurers
to give up the holdings, and Jones declined to identify the
investments or say how much each company holds.  Jones said at the press conference that the Iran-related
holdings are worthy of attention because insurers “are making a
risky investment.”  Dana Ripley , a spokesman for ING, and  Matthew Asensio  of
Cigna declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  