-- Cameco Sees Japan Uranium Recovery: Commodities
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2013-02-13T21:31:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/cameco-sees-japan-uranium-recovery-commoditie.html
Two years after the Fukushima
disaster caused some countries to abandon atomic power
generation,  Cameco Corp.  says Japan is stepping up uranium
imports on speculation the government will allow more idled
reactors to restart.  Japanese utilities are accepting consignments of uranium
under long-term contracts after previously deferring some
shipments, according to Cameco, the world’s third-largest miner
of the radioactive metal. The Canadian company expects as many
as eight reactors in Japan will come back online this year,
Chief Executive Officer  Tim Gitzel  said.  “Japanese utilities are getting more clarity on what the
future looks like,” Gitzel, 50, said Feb. 11 in a telephone
interview from Cameco headquarters in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan.
“Clearly they are on a path to restart.”  A recovery in Japanese buying may help the uranium-mining
industry, which has canceled or deferred billions of dollars of
investments as  the price of the commodity  fell as much as 40
percent. The tsunami and earthquake that struck the country in
2011 damaged Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant
and led to the meltdown of three reactors, the release of
radiation and the evacuation of 160,000 people.  Japan subsequently suspended operations of its remaining
reactors. Having accounted for about 20 million pounds of annual
global uranium demand before the disaster, Japan now operates
just two of its 50 functioning reactors. Current global demand
is 177 million pounds, according to  Rob Chang , an analyst at
Cantor Fitzgerald LP in Toronto.  Average Prices  The price  of U308, the tradable form of uranium, is
currently at $43.50 a pound, according to Metal Bulletin data.
The price, which reached $138 in 2007, will average $58.20 this
year, $63.75 next year and $69.17 in 2015, according to the
average of analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Lower prices have slowed development of some mining
projects. In October, BHP Billiton Ltd. deferred a decision to
spend an estimated $33 billion to expand the Olympic Dam uranium
mine in Australia, and Perth-based Paladin Energy Ltd. last year
slowed expansion of a Namibian project.  Cameco fell 0.1 percent to C$21.08 at the close in Toronto.
The shares have  plunged  42 percent since March 10, 2011, the day
before the tsunami, as the 26-member ISE-CCM Global Uranium
 index  has dropped 47 percent. The company responded to falling
uranium prices last year by abandoning its goal of doubling its
annual output to 40 million pounds by 2018, dropping the target
to 36 million.  Lower Profit  Last week Cameco reported a C$168 million ($167.7 million)
writedown on its Kintyre project in Australia, reiterating that
it wouldn’t be viable without a uranium price of about $67 a
pound. The writedown helped push fourth-quarter  net income  down
83 percent to C$45 million, or 11 cents a share, from a year
earlier.  Even amid public opposition in Japan to reactor restarts
that included weekly protests last year, the victory in December
of the pro-nuclear Liberal Democratic Party in parliamentary
elections has raised expectations that more nuclear plants may
come back online.  While countries such as Germany back away from nuclear
power, restarts in Japan are important for the uranium and
nuclear-power industries because the Asian nation has the most
operational reactors after the U.S. and France, according to
data from the  World Nuclear Association . The nation of about 128
million people also is wholly reliant on imported uranium.  Stringent Requirements  Cameco expects six to eight Japanese reactors will restart
this year after meeting more stringent safety systems enacted by
the country’s  Nuclear Regulation Authority , Gitzel said in the
interview. Customers in Japan have traditionally accounted for
about 10 to 15 percent of the company’s uranium sales, Cameco
said yesterday in an e-mail.  Tokyo Electric Power Co. asked uranium suppliers to defer
deliveries of the fuel after the Fukushima disaster,  Hiroshi Itagaki , a spokesman for the utility, said this week by phone.
Because not all suppliers accepted Tepco’s request, the utility
is still receiving uranium deliveries, he said, declining to
provide data on its uranium imports and consumption.  Hokkaido Electric Power Co. , Chugoku Electric Power Co.,
Shikoku Electric Power Co. and Kyushu Electric Power Co. have
kept buying uranium fuel under long-term contracts even after
the Fukushima disaster, the utilities’ spokesmen said this week.
Spokesmen at Tohoku Electric Power Co., Kansai Electric Power
Co., Chubu Electric Power Co. and Japan Atomic Power Co. said
they couldn’t immediately comment on the matter. Kohei Fukamoto,
a spokesman for Hokuriku Electric Power Co., declined to
comment.  New Rules  Japan’s NRA was set up post-Fukushima to provide evaluation
independent of the trade and industry ministry, which oversees
the nuclear-power industry. Last month, it approved heightened
safety standards and new rules to assess earthquake and tsunami
risk that may require years of reinforcement work for some idled
reactors.  Gitzel isn’t overstating the potential for reactor
restarts, even amid well-organized opposition to the resumption
of operations,  David Sadowski , a Vancouver-based analyst at
Raymond James Ltd., said yesterday in a telephone interview.  “There’s a huge push for the restarts from industry, big
electricity users, government and the utilities themselves,”
Sadowski said. “And if you look at recent polls, even people in
the towns around the nuclear plants, the ones who would be
affected the most, are actually supportive of bringing them back
online.”  ‘Thinking Ahead’  Cameco, the biggest  uranium producer  after Kazakhstan’s
Kazatomprom and Paris-based Areva SA, forecasts the number of
operable reactors to increase globally by 80 in the next 10
years to 511, according to a Jan. 23 investor  presentation  on
its website. Before Fukushima, the company forecast 110 new
units over the following 10 years, Chief Financial Officer  Grant Isaac  said.  With 64 reactors now under construction around the world,
Cameco expects demand for uranium to increase by an average of 3
percent a year to 2022, Gitzel said on a Feb. 11 conference
call.  “These utilities, when they’re building reactors today,
they don’t need uranium today, they probably don’t need it for
five years -- but then they’ll need it for 60 years,” Gitzel
said in the interview. “So they’re thinking ahead.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  