-- Cameron Says U.K. May Have Sent Wrong Message on Students
-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e
-- 2013-02-13T15:07:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/cameron-says-u-k-may-have-sent-wrong-message-on-students.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
said his government may have incorrectly sent prospective
students from India the message that they’re not welcome in
Britain amid efforts to restrict immigration.  Cameron made his comments in an interview with  Sunrise , a
British-based broadcaster to the South Asian community, before a
visit to India next week. India is among countries that are
sending fewer students to the U.K. after a clampdown on visa
issuance.  “I think we haven’t perhaps communicated this properly,”
the prime minister said. “The fact is today, as we stand, and
this is going to be the case going forward, there is no limit on
the number of students who can come from India to study at
British universities, no limit at all.”  Cameron previously said he wants the total number of
immigrants into Britain reduced to the “tens of thousands.” In
September, Home Secretary  Theresa May  ruled out removing
overseas students from the migrant statistics, saying
international protocols on data collection forbid it. She
introduced a crackdown in 2011 on “bogus” foreign students who
she said use educational visas in order to work illegally in the
U.K.  “After you’ve left a British university, if you can get a
graduate-level job there is no limit to the amount of people who
can stay and work, or the time that they can stay at work,”
Cameron said. “Now we need to take that message out to talented
young people in India and say if you want to make that choice,
Britain will be incredibly welcoming.”  British Universities  Lawmakers who head five U.K. parliamentary committees
called on Cameron last month to exclude overseas students from
the government’s immigration targets, saying such a move would
“support economic growth in the immediate and longer term,
supporting jobs in university towns and increasing export
earnings.”  More than 34,000 students from outside the European Union
were accepted at British universities in 2011, making it
difficult for the government to hit its target for cutting the
number of migrants unless they’re excluded.  May said in December that with annual net migratio at
183,000, there was still some way to go to achieve her goal of
reducing that to less than 100,000 by 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eddie Buckle  in London at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  