-- Cardenas Says Colombia Central Bank Board Won’t Alter Course
-- B y   O s c a r   M e d i n a
-- 2013-02-13T13:18:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/cardenas-says-new-colombia-central-bank-board-won-t-alter-course.html
Colombia is on the verge of naming
two new central bank board members who are free from outside
influence and will give continuity to the nation’s monetary
policy, Finance Minister  Mauricio Cardenas  said.  “The president will name, very soon, two board members of
the central bank, two members who you’ll see are independent
people, with good academic credentials,” Cardenas told students
yesterday in Santander province. The nominations will help
“maintain the conduct of monetary policy that we’ve had in
recent years,” he said.  President  Juan Manuel Santos  must appoint replacements for
outgoing co-directors  Fernando Tenjo  and  Juan Jose Echavarria ,
who left the central bank after its January policy meeting. Some
Colombian analysts, including  Tatiana Diaz , a strategist at
local brokerage Casa de Bolsa, said that the changes in the
board could result in a central bank with views that are more in
line with government’s, which would pursue a more “relaxed”
monetary policy to boost growth.  Policy makers will cut the  benchmark interest rate  a
quarter point for the sixth time since June at their Feb. 22
board meeting, to 3.75 percent, according to all 5 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg, after Central Bank Governor  Jose Dario Uribe  said last week that he seeks faster inflation and growth.  Annual inflation eased to 2 percent in January, the slowest
pace since April 2010, from 2.44 percent in December. Uribe said
Feb. 8 that the central bank doesn’t want inflation to remain
this low, and seeks to get the rate back to the midpoint of its
target range. Colombia targets inflation of 3 percent, plus or
minus one percentage point.  Industrial output fell 4 percent in November from a year
earlier, the biggest drop since 2009. Colombia’s “big
aspiration” is a weaker currency to help its exporters,
Cardenas said. An “avalanche” of cheap goods from China, as
well as subsidized or price-controlled goods from Venezuela, are
also hurting Colombia’s manufacturers, Cardenas said.  The peso has strengthened 26 percent since the start of
2009, the biggest gainer among 25 emerging market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg after the Chilean peso. The peso
strengthened 0.1 percent to 1778.00 per dollar at 8:18 a.m. in
Bogota.  Colombia’s record levels of investment can allow it to
become a developed nation by 2023, Cardenas said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Bristow at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net  