-- McDonald’s Falls on Obama Call to Raise U.S. Minimum Wage
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2013-02-13T21:34:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/mcdonald-s-falls-on-obama-call-to-raise-u-s-minimum-wage.html
McDonald’s Corp. , the world’s
largest restaurant chain by sales, fell the most of any stock in
the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  after President  Barack Obama 
announced a plan to raise the minimum wage.  The shares declined 1.2 percent to $94 at the close in New
York. The Oak Brook, Illinois-based company  slumped  12 percent
last year, compared with a 2.6 percent drop for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Restaurants Index.  Obama’s call to raise the federal minimum pay is helping to
drive McDonald’s shares lower today,  Peter Saleh , a New York-
based analyst at Telsey Advisory Group, said in an interview.
The blizzard that lashed the U.S. Northeast at the end of last
week possibly hurting the company’s sales, and  Buffalo Wild
Wings Inc. ’s report yesterday that same-store sales are
declining this year, may also be affecting McDonald’s stock, he
said.  “It’s a whole slew of factors that’s driving it lower
today,” said Saleh, who doesn’t have a rating on McDonald’s
stock.  Obama, in his State of the Union address yesterday, called
for a federal minimum wage increase to $9 an hour, from $7.25.
He also proposed tying the minimum wage to the cost of living.
The current minimum wage has been in effect since 2009.  McDonald’s and its franchisees don’t disclose what they pay
their restaurant workers. Its franchisees, as well as other
restaurant chains, such as Wendy’s Co. and  Jack in the Box Inc. ,
spend money lobbying against minimum-wage increases.  Dollar Menu  McDonald’s, which has about 14,000 U.S. locations, has been
vying with other eateries to lure cash-strapped Americans.
Earlier this month, the chain reported that U.S. same-store
sales gained 0.9 percent in January as it advertised its Dollar
Menu and tested new items to help boost sales.  Buffalo Wild Wings reported yesterday that same-store sales
were down 2.8 percent at company stores and 1.7 percent at
franchised locations through the first six weeks of the first
quarter. Minneapolis-based Buffalo Wild Wings has about 900
stores in the U.S. and Canada.  The shares fell 5.6 percent to $76.55 for the biggest
decline since Oct. 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  