-- Chimps Type ‘Hamlet’ in ‘Timing’; Dark Irish: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2013-02-13T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/chimps-type-hamlet-in-timing-dark-irish-review.html
Before his “Venus in Fur” made
Broadway shockingly sexy, David Ives already was a master of the
comic miniature. The six blackout sketches that make up “All in
the Timing” prove the point today as sharply and concisely as
they did when the show had its premiere 20 years ago.  Ives sees the absurdity in things we often find ourselves
wondering about. You may recall the theory that a monkey in a
room with a typewriter, given infinite time, will eventually tap
out “Hamlet.”  In “Words, Words, Words,” three chattering chimps are
locked in an observation room overseen by a professor out to
prove the point. Their literary monikers (Swift, Kafka, Milton)
notwithstanding, the monkeys don’t know what a Hamlet is and are
more interested in frequent sex and bananas, while occasionally
admiring their literary output (“I like the ‘fft fft fft!’”).  In “ Philip Glass  Buys a Loaf of Bread,” Ives is more
parodist than comedian in a scene that finds the composer in a
“Twilight Zone” bakery right out of one of his minimalist
operas.  “All in the Timing” is witty and literate, but I’d
forgotten how sweetly sentimental it is, as well. In “The
Universal Language,” a shy woman with a stutter is the sole
prospective student showing up at a classroom to learn
“Unamunda,” the made-up language of a con artist. The trip to
their mutual salvation is worthy of a  Sid Caesar  or  Robin Williams  monologue-on-speed.  Eric Clem, Carson Elrod, Jenn Harris, Liv Rooth and Matthew
Saldivar show themselves to be masters of the quick change, the
slow burn and the slapped stick. Under the sleek direction of
John Rando, the comedy is piffle of the highest order.  Through March 17 at  59E59 Theaters , 59 E. 59th St.
Information: +1-212-840-9705;  http://www.primarystages.org .
Rating: ****  Outside Boston  Kirsten Greenidge’s “ Luck of the Irish ,” the latest
offering from LCT3,  Lincoln Center Theater ’s developmental
program, doesn’t need any more developing. What it needs is a
bigger theater. It’s a spellbinding show.  The setting is a comfortable home in suburban Boston. In
the late 1950s, a black doctor, Rex Taylor, wants to move his
family into this restricted enclave. Through an intermediary, he
pays Joe Donovan, an Irishman of considerably lower social
stature, to purchase the home in his name and then sign it over
to the Taylors.  Their Own  A half-century later, Taylors’ granddaughters share the
house when Donovan’s aged wife comes to claim it as her own.  The Taylors, she says, using a phrase that recurs through
the play with increasing pointedness, borrowed the Donovans’
Irish luck, and the time has come for restitution.  The play flows -- poetically, under Rebecca Taichman’s
masterly direction -- between the two periods, with overlapping
scenes that build in tension. In one brutal confrontation late
in the play (which actually has two full acts, a rarity these
days), Rex’s wife Lucy (Eisa Davis, smoldering with both
elegance and rage) meets in a coffee shop with Joe’s angry wife
Patty Ann (Amanda Quaid, her face a topography of bitterness).  She wants more money for the favor they are doing. She
particularly resents the fact that blacks have jumped the social
ladder-climbing by moving ahead of the Irish.  “There’s an order to things,” she says. Lucy tersely shuts
her down: “You won’t push us out, if that’s what you’re
thinking,” she says, barely containing her own fury.  It’s an electrifying moment in a play that’s wise not
merely about race but about equally complicated notions of
family and legacy.  Simply designed by Mimi Lien (set) and Justin Townsend
(lights), “Luck of the Irish” is ready for a much bigger
audience, though the intimacy afforded by Lincoln Center
Theater’s Claire Tow Theater makes it the best $20 you can spend
so far in this new year.  Through March 10 at the Claire Tow Theater, Lincoln Center.
Information: +1-212-239-6200;  http://www.telecharge.com .
Rating: ****  ( Jeremy Gerard  is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include Ryan Sutton on dining and Patrick
Cole on music.  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 