-- Cisco Forecasts Sales That Miss Some Analysts’ Estimates
-- B y   J o r d a n   R o b e r t s o n
-- 2013-02-14T21:03:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/cisco-s-profit-tops-estimates-as-price-reductions-bolster.html
Cisco Systems Inc . forecast sales
this quarter that missed analysts’ most optimistic projections,
citing growth challenges in China and Europe and the prospect of
lackluster government demand for networking equipment.  Fiscal third-quarter sales will increase 4 percent to 6
percent from a year earlier, Cisco said on a conference call
yesterday, indicating revenue of $12.1 billion to $12.3 billion.
Analysts on average  predicted  sales of $12.2 billion, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  A slowdown in spending by large corporations has limited
Cisco’s growth, as has weakness in Europe and Asia, said  Bill Kreher , an analyst at Edward Jones & Co. Tepid demand by
government agencies “has the potential to trip us up,” Chief
Executive Officer  John Chambers  said on the call with analysts.  “Overall, the company is demonstrating stability in its
gross margin, which is important for the long-term story, but in
the near term, revenue growth is what will excite investors, and
new growth areas are slowing,” Kreher said.  Cisco fell less than 1 percent to $20.99 at the close in
New York, leaving the stock up 6.8 percent this year.  Last quarter’s results were buoyed amid cost reductions and
price cuts that spurred demand for Cisco’s products, which
handle traffic over the Internet. Fiscal second-quarter profit
topped analysts’ projections, while sales matched estimates.  Competitive Threats  Profit excluding items was 51 cents a share on sales of
$12.1 billion, San Jose, California-based Cisco said yesterday
in a statement. That compares with analysts’ average estimate of
48 cents on sales of $12.1 billion, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The profit forecast for the current period met
projections.  Chambers  has eliminated jobs, shut businesses and reduced
prices to fend off competition from  Hewlett-Packard Co.  and
 Juniper Networks Inc.  Gross margin, or revenue minus the cost of
goods sold, was 62.3 percent, topping the 61.8 percent estimate.  A decade ago, the company’s gross margin was  69 percent of
revenue .  To maintain margins, the company needs to expand into new
networking products designed to help customers replace aging
gear, while competitors roll out products that lessen the need
for Cisco’s switches and routers, said  Brian Marshall , an
analyst at ISI Group.  “They have been doing a decent job in keeping the EPS up -
- so hats off to them there,” said Marshall, who is based in
San Francisco. “I just have difficulty getting excited about
the story long-term because ultimately what we’re dealing with
is whether they can keep the margins up.”  Profit Projections  Profit excluding certain items will be 48 cents to 50 cents
this quarter, Chief Financial Officer  Frank Calderoni  said on a
conference call. That compares with the average forecast of 49
cents.  Net income rose 44 percent to $3.14 billion, or 59 cents a
share, from $2.18 billion, or 40 cents, a year earlier. Adjusted
profit excludes tax benefits related to a settlement with the
U.S. Internal Revenue Service.  Cisco has maintained its dominant position in sales of
routers and switches, said  Erik Suppiger , an analyst at JMP
Securities LLC. The company has lost share in security, and
cutbacks in government spending have hampered growth, he said.  “Their core markets are a challenge for them in terms of
volume growth, and they haven’t necessarily had great success in
terms of expanding into new markets that can move the needle,”
Suppiger said.  U.S., Europe  Europe and China were “challenging,” Chambers said on the
call. Still, corporate buying in the U.S. has improved, he said.  “We are seeing early signs of stabilization in government
spending and over two-thirds of Europe, but I’d want to watch
that for two or three quarters before I get really excited about
it,” Chambers said.  Chambers, in an interview on CNBC, said that he plans to be
active in acquisitions. He had previously said he plans to
expand in software and technology services, and he has stepped
up dealmaking to bolster Cisco’s central business of routers and
switches for large companies and telecommunications carriers.  Cisco agreed to buy Israel’s Intucell Ltd. for $475 million
and San Francisco-based Meraki Inc. for $1.2 billion in recent
months to gain technologies for managing wireless networks. In
March of last year, Cisco agreed to buy NDS Group Ltd. for about
$5 billion to tap demand for technologies that deliver and
protect pay-TV content.  Cisco is also shedding units. Last month, the company said
that it sold its Linksys home-router unit for an undisclosed
price, which followed earlier moves to exit consumer businesses
such as the Flip video-camera unit.  The debt crisis in Europe has slowed Cisco’s attempts at a
turnaround. The region made up a fourth of sales in the 2012
fiscal year. A shift toward “software-defined networking,” or
using software to perform tasks now handled by pricey networking
equipment, could pose a longer-term threat.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jordan Robertson in San Francisco at 
 jrobertson40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  