-- Citic to Buy 13% Stake in Alumina for A$452 Million
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2013-02-14T06:22:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/citic-resources-to-buy-stake-in-alumina-for-a-452-million-1-.html
Citic Group Corp., China’s largest
state-owned investment company, will pay about A$452 million
($468 million) for a stake in Alumina Ltd., partner in the
world’s biggest alumina business. Alumina’s shares soared.  Citic, through its  Citic Resources Holdings Ltd.  and Citic
Ltd. units, will take a 13 percent stake by agreeing to purchase
about 366 million new shares at A$1.235 each, 3 percent higher
than Alumina’s close yesterday, the Melbourne-based company said
today in a statement.  Alumina climbed to the highest in almost a year in Sydney
trading, signaling some investors expect Citic may seek a
takeover. The Australian company’s partner, Alcoa Inc., last
month forecast global aluminum demand growth will accelerate to
7 percent this year as China’s economic rebound drives demand
for cans, cars and buildings.  “The movement in the Alumina share price today probably
suggests that the market is thinking” there’s the possibility
of a takeover, said  Gavin Wendt , a director at Mine Life Pty.,
who doesn’t expect a bid. “More than anything else it tells us
that maybe we’re getting near the bottom of the market.”  The shares rose 7.5 percent to A$1.29 at market close,
their highest since March 2012.  Aluminum for delivery in three months has risen 3.6 percent
this year on the London Metal Exchange to $2,148 a metric ton at
4:49 p.m. Sydney time, up from last year’s average of $2,052.
The metal will rise for at least the next three years, to $2,200
in 2014, $2,250 in 2015 and $2,500 in 2016, according to median
price forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  China’s Demand  Demand in China, the world’s largest aluminum user, will
climb 11 percent this year to 23 million metric tons as stimulus
spending announced by the nation’s new leadership starts to be
felt, Alcoa Chief Executive Officer Klaus Kleinfeld said last
month. He also forecast consumption growth in Brazil, India and
Russia.  China’s alumina imports almost tripled to 5 million tons in
2012, according to monthly data compiled by  Bloomberg .  “They’re perhaps just positioning themselves to benefit
from what they think may be a recovery of the sector for this
year and next,” said  David Lennox , a resource analyst at Fat
Prophets in Sydney.  Alumina jointly owns the Alcoa World Alumina & Chemicals
venture with Alcoa, the largest U.S. aluminum producer. AWAC
produces about one-quarter of the world’s alumina, which is
refined into aluminum.  Chinese companies announced $61.9 billion of mining and
energy acquisitions last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, including an agreed takeover of Canada’s Nexen Inc.
by Cnooc Ltd., China’s biggest offshore oil and gas producer.  Board Seat  “The board regards aluminum as a key strategic commodity
and Alumina has significant interests in key assets,” Hong
Kong-based Citic Resources said in a separate statement.  Flagstaff Partners Pty is advising Alumina and ANZ
Corporate Advisory is advising Citic.  Citic Resources Chief Executive Officer  Chen Zeng  will join
Alumina’s board of directors. The Chinese company’s first
Australian investment in 1986 was in AWAC’s Portland Aluminium
Smelter in Victoria, according to the statement. It now owns
22.5 percent of the smelter.  Citic’s investments in Australia include a 7 percent stake
in Peabody Energy Corp.’s Coppabella and Moorvale coal mines.  “This secures a strategic, long-term investor at a premium
to our recent share price,” Alumina Chief Executive Officer
 John Bevan  said in the statement.  The investment has been approved by Australian Treasurer
 Wayne Swan  and by China’s National Development and Reform
Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  