-- Corporate Credit Swaps in U.S. Decline; Calpine Risk Increases
-- B y   M a d h u r a   K a r n i k
-- 2013-02-13T22:44:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/corporate-credit-swaps-in-u-s-decline-as-retail-sales-increase.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk fell for a second day as retail sales climbed and
industrial production in the euro area increased more than
forecast.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, decreased
1.3 basis points to a mid-price of 86 basis points at 5:29 p.m.
in New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The
measure reached the least since 85.8 on Jan. 28.  Retail sales in the U.S. climbed 0.1 percent in January,
Commerce Department figures showed today in Washington. In
Europe, industrial production in the 17-nation currency bloc
rose 0.7 percent in December, the European Union’s statistics
office in Luxembourg said today. Economists had forecast a gain
of 0.2 percent, according to the median of 41 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey. Signs of an improving economy may ease
investor concern that companies’ ability to repay debt will be
hindered.  “The U.S. economic data was generally in line with
forecasts while Europe had better than anticipated output
figures,”  Michael Kraft , senior portfolio manager at New York-
based Vanderbilt Avenue Asset Management said in a telephone
interview. “The European markets were stronger and that spilled
over to the U.S. credit and equity markets.”  Calpine Swaps  The credit-swaps index typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  The cost of protecting  Calpine Corp .’s debt from losses
rose after the Houston-based energy company posted a fourth-
quarter loss.  Five-year credit-default swaps on the company’s debt
increased 27 basis points to 310 basis points as of 3:51 p.m. in
New York, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by
McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  The risk premium on the  Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index  dropped 4 basis points to 435.1 basis points,
Bloomberg prices show.  The average relative yield on speculative-grade or junk-
rated debt fell 0.2 basis point to 500.8 basis points, according
to Bloomberg data.  High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and less than BBB- at Standard & Poor’s. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Madhura Karnik in New York at 
 mkarnik@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  