-- Crazy Stalker Accuses Writer of Organizing Rape: Books
-- B y   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2013-02-13T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/crazy-stalker-accuses-writer-of-organizing-rape-books.html
In 2003 the English novelist  James
Lasdun , who lives in upstate New York, taught a fiction
workshop; among his students was an Iranian-born woman he calls
Nasreen.  He admired her writing, and a couple of years later, when
she had completed the draft of a novel, he put her in touch with
his agent and met her for coffee. By then a friendly e-mail
exchange had begun.  But her frequent messages burgeoned into a flood that
exploded into an “electronic tsunami.” He stopped responding.
Then she turned hostile.  As Lasdun recounts in “ Give Me Everything You Have: On
Being Stalked ,” Nasreen accused him of stealing her work and
giving it to other young novelists and, even more outlandishly,
of arranging to have her raped (though she never claimed they
had had any sexual contact).  She soon began sending crazy e-mails to his colleagues and
employers, Lasdun says. Sometimes she signed them with his name.
Her charges showed up on his  Amazon  and Goodreads pages and in
the comments sections of his online book reviews.  The harassment never crossed the threshold of bodily threat
that would have sent the cops into action. By the time Lasdun
sought their help, she had moved to California, and they didn’t
think the D.A. would find the case grave enough to have her
extradited. Still, they advised him not to block her messages in
case she sent him one that was truly actionable.  Ninth Commandment  False accusations are such a primal offense against ethics
that their prohibition is enshrined in the Ninth Commandment.
They leave you feeling besmirched however innocent you are.  “Surely something as black and billowing as these e-
mails,” Lasdun writes, “must indicate that I was guilty of
something.” He goes searching down a hundred back alleys in his
own mind and imagines almost as many in Nasreen’s.  Often he’s hard on himself, but toward Nasreen he’s more
bewildered than hostile. In the context of Sylvia Plath’s “ Lady
Lazarus ,” for example, he notes that his stalker’s “gleefully
uninhibited aggression” suggests a “likely proximity to some
unendurable pain.”  A graceful critic, he finds many such literary parallels.
He cites apposite twists in the medieval English poem “ Sir
Gawain and the Green Knight ” and in novels by Patricia
Highsmith (“ Strangers on a Train ”) and Isaac Bashevis Singer
(“ The Penitent ”).  Anti-Semitism  Lasdun is of Jewish extraction (though not religious
himself), and Nasreen’s e-mails were viciously anti-Semitic. The
book closes with a contemplative visit to Jerusalem. But this
ending is both unresolved and unsatisfying, a flaw in an
otherwise stinging little book.  It’s easy to see what went wrong. The story hasn’t ended:
“Nasreen’s e-mails continue.” There’s a deeper evasion at
work, though.  The hyperconscious Lasdun isn’t the kind of writer to leave
an irony unpalpated. Yet he tells his story as though he’s
oblivious of the poison tree that looms over his whole project.  All along Nasreen’s e-mails were saying, “Pay attention to
me!” What greater gift could you give such an unbridled
narcissist than this memoir? In showing the world how a head
case had the force of will to make the figure she was obsessed
with obsessed with her, it’s a stalker’s dream come true.  The melancholy reflections that close it may not make it
sound like a cliffhanger, but my guess is that every reader
who’s been riveted by the tale will shut the book hungry for the
next installment and prey to the same thought I had:  How is Nasreen going to react?  “Give Me Everything You Have” is published by Farrar,
Straus and Giroux in the U.S. and Jonathan Cape in the U.K. (218
pages, $25, 14.99 pounds). To buy this book in North America,
click  here .  ( Craig Seligman  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on dining and  Patrick
Cole  on music.  To contact the writer on the story:
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 