-- Credit Suisse Said to Sell Stake in Infrastructure Fund
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2013-02-13T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/credit-suisse-said-to-sell-stake-in-infrastructure-fund.html
Credit Suisse Group AG,
Switzerland’s second-biggest bank, agreed to sell its stake in
the first fund of Global Infrastructure Partners to Lexington
Partners Inc., according to a person with knowledge of the
matter.  The deal with Lexington Partners, one of the largest firms
dedicated to buying existing private-equity holdings, is
expected to be completed by the end of March, said the person,
who asked not to be named because the information isn’t public.
The Zurich-based bank’s stake was valued at about $590 million
in net assets plus uncalled capital commitments as of Sept. 30.  Rebecca John, a partner at New York-based Lexington
Partners, declined to comment on the sale process, as did
 Katherine Herring , a spokeswoman for Credit Suisse, and  Jack Cowell , a spokesman for New York-based GIP.  Credit Suisse is selling its $500 million investment in the
fund as it strives to  strengthen  its capital base. Several
financial institutions have sought to unload stakes in private-
equity funds to address regulatory pressure to eliminate riskier
assets and those that aren’t central to their businesses. Lloyds
Banking Group Plc, Citigroup Inc., Barclays Plc, Credit Agricole
SA and HSH Nordbank AG are among firms that have turned to the
so-called secondary market to offer fund stakes in recent years.  GIP, founded in 2006, raised $5.46 billion for its debut
fund in 2008 with commitments from Credit Suisse and General
Electric Co.  Second Vehicle  Credit Suisse, whose private-fund unit is managing the
stake sale, decided against backing the firm’s follow-up fund,
Global Infrastructure Partners II LP, which closed at $8.25
billion in October, two people briefed on the matter said in
January. The second fund became the largest pool focused on
infrastructure buyouts.  GIP is led by  Adebayo Ogunlesi , previously head of
investment banking at Credit Suisse First Boston, the bank’s
securities unit. The firm owns 42 percent of Gatwick Airport
Ltd. in the U.K. and 75 percent of London City Airport,
according to its website.  Lexington Partners, which manages both secondary private-
equity and co-investment funds, was founded in 1994 and has $21
billion in committed capital, according to its website. In 2011,
the firm raised $7 billion for Lexington Capital Partners VII LP
and associated funds to invest on the secondary market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in New York at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  