-- Cuomo’s Budget Boosts ‘Back-Door Borrowing,’ DiNapoli Says
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2013-02-13T20:09:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/cuomo-s-n-y-budget-boosts-back-door-borrowing-dinapoli-says.html
New York  Governor  Andrew Cuomo’s 
$136.5 billion budget increases so-called back-door borrowing
and relies on optimistic revenue estimates that may not
materialize, Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli  said.  The spending plan the governor introduced last month
creates a bond-financing program for public authorities that is
backed by sales taxes and expands the use of debt repaid with
personal-income levies, DiNapoli said in a report e-mailed
today. The measures are part of $3.3 billion in new borrowing
the 55-year-old Democratic governor is seeking for the agencies.  The budget also assumes personal income-tax collections
will rise 6.6 percent in the next fiscal year, a rate that
hasn’t been achieved in recent years, DiNapoli said. The plan
includes risks in both spending and revenue estimates, he said.  “It increases our debt burden and relies on temporary
actions that will get us through short-term problems, but pushes
off some hard choices for another day,” DiNapoli said.
“Clearly the state is facing difficult issues, but provisions
of this budget need to be openly discussed by the legislature so
taxpayers know how resources are being used.”  Comptroller Concerns  DiNapoli, a 59-year-old Democrat, has already said he has
concerns with a Cuomo proposal that would allow local
governments to lock in their annual pension-payment rates for 25
years. In the report today, the comptroller called for
overhauling the state’s borrowing mechanism because room under
the debt cap is projected to fall to $509 million in the next
fiscal year from $9.2 billion in 2009.  New York’s constitution generally prohibits issuing debt
unless it’s approved by voters and the legislature. To get
around that requirement, about 95 percent of state borrowing has
been through public authorities such as the  Dormitory Authority
of the State of New York , which aren’t subject to the
prohibition. Under the practice, known as “backdoor
borrowing,” the state makes payments to the authorities for
debt service  “It is more efficient because it avoids the uncertainty of
voters saying no, but the voters pay the bill when we borrow and
ought to be included in the decision-making process,” Robert
Ward, a deputy comptroller, said today in a telephone interview.  ‘Not Changing’  Robert Megna , Cuomo’s budget director, said DiNapoli’s
report was a “misrepresentation” of the governor’s revenue
estimates and borrowing plan. The personal income-tax projection
is higher than previous years because of changes in federal
reporting requirements, which will boost collections in April
and May, he said. Borrowing through authorities is the way New
York has issued debt for the past 30 years, Megna said.  “We’re not changing our borrowing procedures,” he said
during a conference call with reporters. “They know how to go
to the investment community. This is something the comptroller
would just prefer us not to do.”  DiNapoli has proposed a constitutional ban on borrowing by
authorities that back the debt with revenue collected by the
state and isn’t approved by voters. He’s also recommended a
constitutional change restricting the use of long-term debt to
capital purposes.  DiNapoli also said in the report that Cuomo’s financial
plan includes a potential loss of as much as $1.1 billion in
Medicaid funding due to a rate change for the state’s most
seriously disabled. Budget officials say the state is assembling
a contingency plan that may include an increase in federal
funding from other Medicaid reimbursements to offset the loss.  G.O. Bonds  Since Cuomo proposed his budget Jan. 22, debt sold by the
state has performed better than benchmark tax-exempts. A New
York general-obligation bond due in 2034 traded Feb. 11 with an
average yield of 1.95 percent, 0.65 percentage points below an
index of top-rated munis with similar maturity, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The yield difference was 0.02 percentage point
below the index on Jan. 22.  New York’s fiscal year starts April 1. The legislature has
set a schedule to pass the budget on March 21, which would be
the earliest since 1983. In his first two years, Cuomo pushed
through the first consecutive on-time budgets since 2006,
cutting more than $12 billion in deficits. The proposed budget
for fiscal 2014 trims a $1.3 billion deficit.  “This budget follows exactly what the governor has been
trying to do since his very first budget, which is put us on a
fiscally responsible path,” Megna said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Freeman Klopott  in Albany, New York, at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  