-- Czech Economy in Record-Long Recession as Austerity Bites
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-02-14T09:35:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/czech-economy-in-record-long-recession-as-austerity-bites.html
The Czech economic recession
stretched to the longest on record in the fourth quarter as the
government extended its austerity program and the euro-area
crisis curbed demand for exports.  Gross domestic product  shrank 0.2 percent from the third
quarter of 2012, marking the fourth consecutive quarterly
decline, the Prague-based Czech Statistics Office said in a
flash estimate today. The drop was smaller than the median
estimate for a 0.3 percent contraction in a Bloomberg survey of
11 analysts.  Output  fell 1.7 percent from the final quarter of
2011, the steepest drop in three years.  The $217 billion  economy  is suffering from weakening
domestic demand, with households and businesses spending less
due to government austerity measures and the euro area’s debt
crisis. After cutting borrowing costs three times last year to
effectively  zero , the central bank is navigating an uncharted
territory as policy makers debate whether to further ease
monetary conditions by weakening the currency.  ‘Insufficient’ Demand  “The economy faces the worst of both worlds right now: a
collapse in domestic demand and insufficient foreign demand,”
Nicholas Spiro, managing director of Spiro Sovereign Strategy
Ltd. in London, said in an e-mail. “Its saving grace, however,
is its ‘safe haven’ status in the bond markets which is keeping
yields extraordinarily low despite the significant political and
economic risks.”  The koruna strengthened after the central bank’s policy
meeting on Feb. 6, gaining 1.8 percent to the euro, its best
weekly rally in 14 months. Since then it has weakened, falling
0.6 percent against the euro this week to trade at 25.378 as of
10:15 a.m. in Prague.  The government credits its policies with helping to cut
borrowing costs. Yields on  five-year  koruna notes fell 172 basis
points, or 1.72 percentage points, in 2012, touching a record-
low 0.66 percent on Dec. 27. The five-year rate stood at 1.035
percent today, according to generic rates compiled by Bloomberg.  Structure Unchanged  “The positive contribution of foreign trade wasn’t able to
compensate for a decline in expenditure on final consumption of
households and fixed-capital creation,” the statistics office
said. It didn’t publish a breakdown of the fourth-quarter GDP
and will release detailed data on March 11.  Retail sales  fell 5.1 percent in December, the most in
three years, partly due to fewer working days than a year
earlier. The  unemployment  rate rose to 8 percent in January, the
highest reading on record, according to Labor Ministry data.
Industrial output fell 12.5 percent from a year earlier in
December, the biggest decline in more than three years.  Premier Petr Necas’s Cabinet has cut investments and raised
taxes to trim the  budget gap . While targeting a deficit of less
than the EU limit of 3 percent of economic output this year,
Necas wants to ease the pace of fiscal cuts starting in the
election year of 2014 to help boost growth.  The sovereign-debt crisis in the euro region, the Czech
Republic’s biggest trading partner, is curbing demand for
automobiles, car parts and electronics goods made in the eastern
European Union member.  Exports , which account for about 75 percent of Czech GDP,
grew 1.9 percent in the October-December period from a year
earlier, the weakest performance since the final quarter of
2009.  Auto Decline  After delivering a record 939,200 cars in 2012, Skoda Auto
AS, a unit of Volkswagen AG and the largest Czech exporter, said
yesterday that weaker demand in January was affected by
“continued declining trend on some European markets.”  The steel industry also suffered last year. Raw steel
output fell 10 percent mainly due to “weak demand from the
European Union,” the Steel Industry Association said Feb. 12.  Weak demand is pushing businesses to curb costs, including
spending on  wages , which may further constrain household
spending this year. Skoda Auto’s management rejected a trade
unions’ demand for salary increases at the first round of
negotiations last week, the unions said in their newsletter
published on Feb. 7.  If Skoda Auto is a “benchmark for other industrial
companies, it doesn’t imply anything positive for consumption of
Czech households this year,” CSOB AS analysts said in a note
yesterday. “The Czech economy should be driven mainly by good
foreign-trade performance in 2013, while domestic demand will
stagnate at best.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  