-- Dell Pressed to Sweeten LBO Bid Amid T. Rowe Opposition
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a   a n d   D a v i d   C a r e y
-- 2013-02-13T21:58:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/dell-pressed-to-sweeten-lbo-as-t-rowe-joins-opposition.html
Dell Inc. , the computer maker that
agreed to a $24.4 billion buyout this month, is coming under
increased pressure to make the deal more attractive to
shareholders who say the transaction undervalues the company.  Options include boosting the offer price or increasing the
dividend, analysts said. Private-equity buyers have also given
investors a chance to co-invest in a transaction to line up
support for a buyout that met with resistance. Dell’s biggest
outside investors, T. Rowe Price Group Inc. and Southeastern
Asset Management, oppose the $13.65-a-share  proposal , saying it
undervalues the No. 3 maker of personal computers.  In the largest leveraged buyout since the financial crisis,
founder  Michael Dell  and private-equity firm Silver Lake
Management LLC seek to take Dell private after the company lost
almost one-third of its value in 2012 amid stiffening
competition in mobile and cloud computing. The buyers need
approval by a majority of shareholders, excluding Michael Dell,
and their chances diminish as the opposition gains momentum.  “I don’t think the current offer will get the shareholder
vote, especially given the fact that the two largest
shareholders have come out early and against,” said  Louis Meyer , an analyst at Oscar Gruss & Son Inc.  Opposing investors will first push for a higher price, he
said. Failing that, they will probably “press for some sort of
recapitalization, such as a a special dividend,” he said.  Dell slipped less than 1 percent to $13.77 at the close in
New York. The shares closed at $13.79 yesterday, the  highest 
since May 2012. The buyout offer is 25 percent higher than the
$10.88 closing on Jan. 11, the last trading day before LBO talks
became public.  ‘Extreme Disappointment’  T. Rowe Price and Southeastern, which together own more
than 10 percent of the stock, said Dell is worth more than its
buyers have offered.  “We believe the proposed buyout does not reflect the value
of Dell and we do not intend to support the offer as put
forward,” T. Rowe Price Chairman  Brian Rogers  said yesterday in
a statement. Southeastern sent a Feb. 8 letter to Dell’s board
expressing “extreme disappointment” with the offer.  The deal includes a so-called majority-of-the-minority
voting rights protection, meaning it must be approved by a
majority of shareholders excluding Dell, people familiar with
the matter said last week. There will be two votes on the deal
by investors, one with Michael Dell and his 14 percent stake and
one without, the people said. Both must affirm the deal.  Dell’s buyers may need to make the terms more attractive,
said  Shaw Wu , an analyst at Sterne Agee & Leach Inc.  Debt Constraints  “It’s a possibility that they have to raise the price,”
said Wu, who is based in San Francisco and rates the stock
neutral.  Given the amount of debt already factored into the
proposal, it won’t be easy to increase the terms materially, Wu
said. Dell is seeking $13.8 billion in loans to finance the
deal, according to regulatory filings. There’s little leeway to
take on more debt since pruning more of Dell’s low-margin
personal computer business would crimp the cash flow needed to
pay it off, said  Abhey Lamba , an analyst at Mizuho Securities
USA Inc., who said that the buyers may need to offer as much as
$15 a share to seal the deal.  Other investors who have voiced opposition to the offer
include  Richard Pzena , founder of Pzena Investment Management,
who said last week that he will vote against the transaction.
Pzena’s firm held 12.7 million Dell shares, or 0.7 percent of
the company, as of Dec. 31, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Activism, Lawsuit  Donald Yacktman  of Yacktman Asset Management said in an
interview on CNBC today that he’d vote against the proposal at
the current price. Harris Associates LP’s  William C. Nygren  said
on Feb. 5 that he would “raise a ruckus” if his firm were to
find out that better alternatives exist to the one that Dell’s
board approved.  Dell and other directors were sued last week in  Delaware
Chancery Court  by investor Catherine Christner, who said the
board is shortchanging shareholders.  Southeastern, which holds a 8.4 percent  stake  in Dell, said
the computer maker is worth at least $24 a share. Southeastern
said Dell’s business-computing  acquisitions , along with its
server and technology-services operations, are worth more than
the offer. Southeastern hired D.F. King & Co. for consulting and
related services, according to a filing.  “In a going-private transaction it’s not atypical to see
activism or a shareholder lawsuit,” said  Donna Hitscherich , a
 senior lecturer  at Columbia Business School and director of its
private-equity program.  Go-Shop  Michael Dell is seeking to take back majority control of
the company he founded in 1984 after losing ground in the PC
market and as consumer demand shifted to tablets from
competitors, including Apple Inc.  David Frink , a spokesman for Dell, referred to a statement
issued last week saying that the proposed deal “offers an
attractive and immediate premium for stockholders and shifts the
risks facing the business to the buyer group.” A so-called
“go-shop” period “provides stockholders an opportunity to
determine if there are alternatives that are superior to the
present offer,” he said.  Shareholders unhappy with buyout offers have successfully
pressed buyers to pay more in the past. In 2007, a private-
equity group lifted its offer for Biomet Inc., a medical devices
maker, to $11.4 billion from $10.9 billion after the group’s
previous offer was criticized by a shareholder and an advisory
firm as too low.  The same year, hedge fund Highfields Capital Management LP
and other investors got private-equity firms Bain Capital LLC
and Thomas H. Lee Partners LP to raise their offer for Clear
Channel Communications Inc., a radio chain and outdoor
advertiser, and to give them the option to co-invest in the
deal. Clear Channel ultimately agreed to a lower price amid
declines in radio advertising sales and leveraged lending.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net ;
David Carey in New York at 
 dcarey13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  