-- Detroit Worker Bonuses Approach Records on Rising Profits
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2013-02-13T21:09:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/detroit-worker-bonuses-approach-records-on-rising-profits.html
U.S. automakers are close to handing
out record profit-sharing checks, bringing new meaning to the
term “bonus baby” for  Ford Motor Co.  hourly worker Nino Pace.  When Pace arrived home from work one evening, his wife had
spelled out “baby” in wooden blocks, decorated with sparkles,
on the kitchen table.  Pace took the “not-so-subtle hint” and intends to sock
away half of his $8,300 profit-sharing check from Ford for the
baby he and his wife of 14 months now are planning, he said.
With the other half, the production worker at Ford’s axle plant
in Sterling Heights, Michigan, intends to take his wife on one
last, child-free vacation.  Thanks to record North American profits, the Detroit
automakers plan to hand out checks totaling more than $750
million to about 122,000 workers. Besides Ford’s $8,300, the
most ever by a Detroit automaker, Chrysler Group LLC is paying
hourly workers $2,250. For new Ford hires, who are paid about
half what senior workers make, $8,300 adds 23 percent to their
annual compensation of $36,000.  If  General Motors Co. ’s payout surpasses $7,325 when it
reports year-end earnings Feb. 14, that would top the cumulative
record of $17,875 set in 1999, when Detroit was awash in sport-
utility vehicle profits, said  Kristin Dziczek , director of the
labor and industry group at the Center for Automotive Research.  Economic Impact  In Michigan alone, the checks will contribute $350 million
to the economy and generate 3,500 jobs, said  Donald Grimes , a
senior research specialist at the University of Michigan, who
studies labor and the economy.  “This is a much bigger deal than the tax refunds people
get,” Grimes said. “It’s a much bigger check.”  GM earned $5.48 billion in North America in the first nine
months of last year and may have made $1.17 billion before
interest and taxes in the fourth quarter, the average of four
analysts’ estimates. That would suggest a profit-sharing payment
of $6,600. While that would be shy of the record, it’s a
sizeable sum given U.S. auto sales were 15 percent below 1999
levels, Dziczek said.  “The automakers are profitable now at much lower sales
volumes,” Dziczek said. “That bodes well for the next few
years of seeing checks like this.”  Last year, GM paid $7,000, Ford paid $6,200 and Chrysler
$1,500.  SUV Days  The last time autoworkers received checks as big as this
year’s, U.S. auto sales reached a then-record 16.96 million and
Detroit’s SUVs ruled the roads. Last year, automakers sold 14.49
million cars and light trucks in the U.S., the most since 2007,
the year before the fall of Lehman Brothers sent the economy
spiraling into the worst recession since the Great Depression.  Carmakers earn more money on fewer sales because they cut
their costs during the recession, in part by winning concessions
from the  United Auto Workers  union. A lower break-even level
helped GM earn 51 cents a share in the fourth quarter, excluding
some items, up from 39 cents a year earlier, according to the
average of 16 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The 2009 government-backed bankruptcies of GM and Chrysler
cleansed their debts. All three automakers lowered costs by
cleaving almost 200,000 workers from their payrolls since 1999,
Dziczek said.  “We did what was necessary to save the companies,” UAW
President  Bob King  said in an interview yesterday. In 2011
bargaining, “we wanted to make sure that if the company did
well, our members would do really well. This is like four bucks
an hour for people at Ford. That’s huge.”  Sober Approach  The workers who survived Detroit’s downsizing take a sober
approach to spending those big checks. Many are still recovering
from the financial hardships of the recession.  With one son in college and another on the way, auto worker
Brian Pannebecker doesn’t plan to go crazy with the biggest
bonus check he has ever received from Ford. Instead, he’ll use
it to pay off credit cards.  “I’m not doing anything sexy like going to Disney World,”
says Pannebecker, 54, a hoist operator at the Sterling Heights
axle factory. “I’m trying to get both my boys through college
without any student-loan debt.”  That doesn’t mean there won’t be an economic impact next
month when checks are distributed to workers, mostly in the
Midwestern states of Michigan, Ohio, Indiana and Illinois.  “It is a small stimulus program that serves as an example
in an economy where jobs are still a central issue,” said
 Harley Shaiken , labor professor at the University of California
at Berkeley. “And it improves the companies’ competitiveness
because better workers are attracted and morale is higher.”  Membership Declines  Those checks are distributed to far fewer workers than in
the heyday of the SUV. The Detroit automakers employed 318,000
U.S. hourly workers in 1999, compared to 122,000 last year,
Dziczek said. UAW membership fell to 380,719 at the end of 2011,
from a peak of 1.5 million in 1979, according to the U.S. Labor
Department.  In 1989, when GM had net income of $4.22 billion, the
automaker handed out profit-sharing checks of $50 to each of its
U.S. hourly workers, according to the Center for Automotive
Research. In 2003, when GM had net income of $3.8 billion,
workers received $170 each. That was only slightly less than the
$195 Ford handed out that year and considerably more than what
Chrysler gave workers in 2003: nothing.  In the three decades since the UAW agreed to profit sharing
in exchange for smaller raises or no increase to base pay, GM
has failed to award bonuses 13 times, Ford has not paid nine
times and Chrysler skipped 12 years of payments. While some of
those payouts were missed because the automakers were losing
money, the union had argued the profit-sharing formula was
overly complex and often unfair.  Shared Objectives  The UAW’s King made sharing a bigger slice of profits a
central theme of contract talks in 2011. He extracted a new
formula from the automakers that pays about $1,000 for each
billion in North American earnings. Automakers don’t have to pay
if North American earnings fall below $1.25 billion, and the
payout is capped at $12,000, Dziczek said.  Making profit sharing “more transparent and understandable
was huge to us,” King said. “Workers had made tremendous
sacrifices, and we didn’t want the games that were sometimes
played in the past with the old formula.”  ‘Winning Together’  Giving workers more-generous profit-sharing payouts was
aimed at aligning their interests more closely with the company
and its shareholders.  “Flexible compensation, profit sharing will definitely be
part of the auto industry” in the future, King said. “The auto
industry is very competitive. You’ve got to have everybody
focused on winning together.”  GM and Ford have each risen more than 12 percent since Oct.
31, when they began outlining plans for European restructuring
and continued North American profitability.  GM rose  0.4 percent
to $28.67 at the close in New York.  Ford slipped  0.3 percent to
$13.04.  Ford posted a record North America pretax profit of $8.34
billion last year, which translated to $8,300 in profit sharing.  For Vincenza Milana, who started working at Ford’s Sterling
Heights factory last May, the extra money was unexpected and
most welcome. Milana, who makes almost $16 an hour assembling
axles for Ford’s Expedition and Lincoln Navigator SUVs, is using
her check for necessities like making mortgage payments and
keeping her car repaired and on the road.  ‘Means The World’  “It’s something I wasn’t expecting and every dollar makes
a difference,” said Milana, 50, a single mother of two
daughters in college. “However I can help them, even just food
on the table, doing laundry and having heat in the house, it
means the world to us.”  For senior workers, who make about $70,000, excluding
overtime pay, Ford’s profit sharing represents a 12 percent
bonus, Dziczek said. That disparity may dictate how workers
spend their windfall, Shaiken said.  “For some, it may be the deferred purchase of a car or
getting a new second car,” Shaiken said. “For others, it may
be catching up on bills.”  To get the more-generous bonus checks, the UAW gave up
traditional wage increases for senior workers and cost-of-living
adjustments. Senior workers haven’t received a raise since 2005.
Many are still hoping to win back an annual raise in the next
negotiations in 2015, Dziczek said.  Raises Preferred  Profit sharing is “contingent, it’s flexible, so people
don’t see this as security,” Dziczek said. “Most every worker
on the line would really rather have an annual wage increase
that’s there every year and compounds.”  Linking autoworkers’ compensation more closely with profits
caused controversy when the union struck the deal in 2011.
Members rejected the contract at five Ford factories, including
assembly plants in Chicago and Michigan that build the Taurus
sedan, Explorer SUV and  Focus small car . The contract was
ultimately ratified by fewer than two-thirds of Ford workers.  “In the depths of the industry’s problems, taking
increased compensation in the form of profit sharing was a
risk,” Shaiken said. “But for the UAW, this is a risk that has
paid off.”  King, 66, wouldn’t say the big profit-sharing checks make
up for all the concessions workers gave up. He also doesn’t rule
out the  union  seeking a traditional raise in future
negotiations.  “This doesn’t mean that we’ll never in the future look at
some wage increase because you’ve got to keep up with inflation
in some way,” King said. “But like we did this time, we will
be very conscious and very strategic in making sure we get good
gains for our membership and we keep the companies
competitive.”  Bright Future  Now with U.S. automakers on the upswing, autoworkers are on
pace for several years of record profit sharing, Dziczek said.  While the prospect of even fatter checks lifts the spirits
on the assembly line, workers probably won’t return to their
free-spending ways of the late 1990s, Pannebecker said. Back
then, factories ran around the clock and workers earned enough
overtime pay to push their annual income above $100,000. When a
big bonus check came, it often went for a new snowmobile or a
cabin in northern Michigan.  “Ten or 12 years ago, it seemed like the money would never
stop coming,” Pannebecker said. “But it did stop and that was
a real wake-up call. Now people are talking about saving money
and paying off debts, not buying a new stereo.”  Veteran workers have warned their younger colleagues like
Pace, the 28-year-old presumed father-to-be, not to use their
bonus checks to live beyond their means.  “Many of them have told me to just look at it as a
bonus,” Pace said “And bonuses are here today, gone
tomorrow.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  