-- Deutsche Bank Sees Saudi Market Opening Amid Passport’s Bet
-- B y   D e e m a   A l m a s h a b i   a n d   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2013-02-13T12:00:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/deutsche-bank-expects-saudi-market-to-open-to-foreigners-soon.html
Deutsche Bank AG , Europe’s biggest
bank by assets, expects Saudi Arabia will soon allow foreigners
to invest directly in local company shares, joining hedge fund
Passport Capital LLC in predicting the market is set to open.  “I am convinced that the market will open up to foreign
investors and part of me is very optimistic it’s going to be
soon,”  Jamal Alkishi , chief executive officer of Deutsche
Securities Saudi Arabia, said in an interview in his Riyadh
office Feb. 11. “I think the leadership sees the benefits of
doing so, but they just want to make sure that every facet is
examined and thoroughly understood before plunging into this.”  International banks are boosting their presence in Saudi
Arabia as investors seek greater access to the Arab world’s
largest bourse and most important economy. The kingdom is the
top emerging market and direct foreign investment in equities,
which could happen in the next year, may attract as much as $30
billion of inflows,  John Burbank , founder of $3.7 billion San
Francisco-based hedge fund Passport Capital LLC, said Feb. 7.  Saudi Arabia, which last year said it will open the gauge
gradually, only allows non-resident foreigners outside of the
six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council to invest through equity
swaps and exchange-traded funds. A relaxation of restrictions on
foreign investment in the $387 billion stock market may reduce
the influence of retail investors, Alkishi said.  Regional Hub  Morgan Stanley  and Credit Suisse Group AG are shifting
their regional equities bases to Riyadh from Dubai, while VTB
Capital Plc, the investment banking unit of Russia’s second-
largest lender, said last month it may set up an equities
business in the Saudi capital. Deutsche Securities is one of 30
brokerages in the kingdom, according to  Saudi bourse data .  An opening up of the market to foreigners “will benefit
our business a great deal in terms of our custody business, our
cash equity business and our equities business in general,”
Alkishi said.  Saudi companies are boosting profitability after the
kingdom’s $727 billion economy expanded 6.8 percent last year,
five times more than developed markets, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The government is pursuing more than $500
billion of spending to build roads and airports, expand industry
and create jobs.  Chemicals, Phones  Overseas investors find Saudi petrochemicals, banking and
telecommunication stocks attractive, according to Alkishi. The
benchmark  Saudi Tadawul All Share Index  includes  Saudi Basic
Industries Corp. , the world’s largest petrochemicals company, as
well as  Saudi Telecom Co ., the Middle East’s largest phone
company by revenue and market value.  “The place that we probably have by far the biggest weight
relative to other people would be Saudi Arabia, Burbank said in
an interview with Bloomberg Television. The nation is the fund’s
“favorite emerging market,” he said. Passport has invested 17
percent of its capital in the bourse and sees a potential
opening in the next year, he said.  Deutsche Bank fell 1.2 percent to 36.75 euros as of 10:31
a.m. in Frankfurt and has gained about 12 percent this year.  The Tadawul, which is more than three times the size of
gauges in the United Arab Emirates combined, underperformed
peers last year with a gain of 6 percent versus a rally of 15
percent for the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  of developing
nations. The gauge has a  dividend yield  of 3.5 percent, compared
with 2.7 percent for the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index , according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  New Regulator  “I think moderating the huge influence of retail investors
by bringing in institutional fundamental investors into the
market will be highly beneficial,” Alkishi said. “I don’t
expect a massive avalanche of volume once the market opens up.”  Saudi Arabia this month replaced the head of its Capital
Market Authority with  Mohammad Al al-Sheikh , who represents
Saudi Arabia at the World Bank. Al al-Sheikh holds a Harvard Law
degree and specializes in mergers and acquisitions, capital
markets and project finance, according to the website of U.S.
law company Latham & Watkins, which practices in the kingdom in
association with Al-Sheikh’s law office.  “The newly appointed head of CMA knows the market
extremely well,” Alkishi said. “He knows the regulations and
knows how keen international investors are to be exposed to the
Saudi business.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Deema Almashabi in Riyadh at 
 dalmashabi@bloomberg.net ;
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net 
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  