-- Deutsche Bank Sides With Goldman Betting on Turkey Bank Drop
-- B y   S i b e l   A k b a y
-- 2013-02-14T15:32:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/deutsche-bank-sides-with-goldman-betting-on-turkish-bank-decline.html
Deutsche Bank AG  and  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.  say a record rally in Turkish banks may turn into a
sell-off on rising concern that earnings will be hit by plans to
reduce fee income and pare growth in loans.  Industrial companies in Turkey are a better bet because
they offer higher dividends,  Albert Krespin , chief executive
officer of Deutsche Bank’s broker in the country, said in an
interview in Istanbul. Goldman Sachs advised clients to exit
Turkish lenders last week, saying earnings will come under
pressure.  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS , owned by Spain’s  Banco Bilbao
Vizcaya Argentaria SA , led a 64 percent-gain in  Turkish banks 
last year, the biggest rally since 2009. Losses this year have
totaled 3.4 percent, dragging the main  ISE National 100  index
down, partly on bets Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s
government will pass legislation to abolish or slash some fees
including annual credit card and account maintenance charges.  “Banking shares already started seeing a correction and I
would expect that to continue in the near-term,” Krespin said
at his offices on Feb. 12. “Given this scenario, we maintain
our recommendation to switch from banking shares to industry.”  The ISE National Banks index lost as much as 2.1 percent to
156,658.73 today, dropping below its 100-day moving average, a
technical gauge of future price movements used by traders, for
the first time since June last year. It headed for the fourth
week of falls, the longest losing streak since May.  The banking regulator is giving its views on the draft law
“to the necessary authorities,” chief regulator  Mukim Oztekin 
said at a news conference in Ankara yesterday. The law, also
designed to bring consumer rights in line with European Union
norms, is with the trade ministry, he said.  U.S. Cash  Goldman Sachs turned negative on Turkey’s banks last week,
saying repatriation of money into the U.S. could threaten
economic stability in the country, adding to concern about a
decline in profits.  “If our earnings scenario materializes, all Turkish banks
will be under pressure,” analysts  Dmitry Trembovolsky  and
 Alexey Butylin  said in a report. Goldman Sachs removed state-run
 Turkiye Halk Bankasi AS  from its most-preferred list for the
region and cut  Yapi & Kredi Bankasi AS ,  UniCredit SpA ’s unit in
the country, to sell.  Turkish Central Bank Governor  Erdem Basci  has started
focusing monetary policy on limiting loan growth to an annual 15
percent this year. He said the curbs are needed to narrow the
import-driven current-account deficit, which had threatened to
destabilize the economy last year.  Interest Margins  Banks will have a positive 2013 even though there are
short-term risks, said  Ovunc Gursoy , an analyst at  Yapi Kredi 
Yatirim Menkul Degerler, an Istanbul-based broker also owned by
UniCredit.  “There’s a good, stable trend in net interest margins,”
he said in a telephone interview today. “I would expect that to
continue until at least the third quarter this year.”  Narrower interest margins may mean industry profit rises
only marginally this year, Oztekin said. Net income may increase
to 24 billion liras ($13.6 billion) from 23.6 billion liras in
2012, when it advanced 19 percent, he said.  Gursoy said investors were nervous about a probe by the
antitrust board in Ankara into whether 12 Turkish banks,
including Garanti and  Akbank TAS , colluded to set interest
rates. A final hearing is scheduled for Feb. 25 and a decision
is expected within 15 days after that.  The banking index has a total market value of 61.7 billion
liras, 42 percent of the ISE National 100, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Garanti is the biggest bank followed by
 Akbank , part-owned by Citigroup Inc., and  Turkiye Is Bankasi AS .  Industrial Firms  Five of 30 analysts  currently recommend buying shares in
Garanti compared with 16 of 33 analysts a year ago, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Six of 29 analysts say buy Akbank
shares. The two firms have a combined 52 percent weighting in
the banking index.  Investors should turn away from banks and look at firms
such as state-run telephone provider  Turk Telekomunikasyon AS 
and refiner Tupras Turkiye Petrol Rafinerileri AS, Krespin said.  “Companies like Tupras have been giving out good dividends
and that’s very important in a low-interest rate environment
such as this,” he said.  Ten of 32 analysts recommend buying Tupras, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Tupras paid a dividend of 3.93 liras
a share last year and 2.98 liras in 2011. The shares lost 1
percent to 48.30 liras today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sibel Akbay in Istanbul at 
 sakbay@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  