-- Diverse Ecosystems Show Clue to Human Disease Prevention
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-02-13T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/diverse-ecosystems-show-clue-to-human-disease-prevention.html
     Feb. 13 (Bloomberg) --The richer the ecosystem, the more
protection there is against disease, according to a study that
found a variety of frogs, toads or salamanders dwelling in a
pond together made a healthier environment for all amphibians.  Ponds with a half dozen amphibian species had a 78 percent
decline in parasite transmission, compared with ponds hosting
one type of amphibian, a study of 345 wetlands published today
in the journal  Nature  found. The findings may have lessons for
preventing human disease, said the study author, Pieter Johnson.  Making environments more diverse might help combat
illnesses such as West Nile, said Johnson, an assistant
professor of ecology and evolutionary biology at the University
of Colorado in Boulder. The West Nile virus typically transmits
between birds and mosquitoes several times before finding its
way into humans. Boosting bird variety might make it more
difficult for the germ to spread and lead to fewer human cases.  “The interesting question becomes, is biodiversity
important for combating the cause of disease?” Johnson said in
a telephone interview. “That’s the motivation.”  While previous studies have suggested correlations between
increased diversity in an environment and lowered disease risks
in humans, an experiment to find out would be a challenge, he
said. Researchers would have to release a known number of
infected mosquitoes to observe how areas with abundant bird
species responded, and then compare to areas with fewer types.
That sort of study would be “hard, expensive, and ethically
problematic,” he said.  California Ponds  The group visited ponds in California, examining 24,215
amphibians and 17,516 snails to track a parasitic flatworm
called Ribeiroia ondatrae. The parasite causes missing, mangled,
or extra sets of  hind legs  in amphibians, and uses snails as a
transitional host for asexual reproduction. It’s not clear how
 Ribeiroia causes  the malformed legs.  The first species that appear in new ecosystems breed
rapidly, and are most prone to infection. Those who appear later
in a pond’s lifecycle are typically more resistant to parasites,
and their resistance lowers the transmission between the snails
and amphibians.  The group also set up experiments in 40 artificial ponds,
both indoors and outdoors, to make sure the species diversity,
and not something else in the natural environment, accounted for
their findings. The artificial results echoed the natural ones.  Johnson said the artificial results allowed him to say with
confidence that the increased diversity is what leads to
parasite resistance. In agriculture, intercropping, or
alternating crops either spatially or over time, is basically
the same concept, he said.  The research was supported by the National Science
Foundation, the National Geographic Society, and the David and
Lucile Packard Foundation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in San Francisco at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  