-- DoCoMo Seeks Finance, Retail Takeovers as Japan Phone Sales Cool
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   T a k a s h i   A m a n o
-- 2013-02-13T21:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/docomo-seeks-finance-retail-takeovers-as-japan-phone-sales-cool.html
NTT DoCoMo Inc. , Japan’s biggest
wireless operator, is holding talks on takeovers in the
financial services, retail and digital-content industries to
pare its reliance on mobile-phone calls.  The carrier has opened discussions with companies in these
sectors, Chief Financial Officer  Kazuto Tsubouchi  said yesterday
in an interview at the company’s headquarters in Tokyo. He
declined to elaborate on potential targets.  DoCoMo aims to almost double revenue from non-traditional
businesses to 1 trillion yen ($10.7 billion) by the year ending
March 2016 as Japan’s shrinking population and market saturation
saps growth in its main wireless operations. The company in
January said it plans to buy online fashion retailer  MAGAseek
Corp. , after announcing takeovers worth more than $425 million
last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We’ll need a jump via M&A deals to reach the 1 trillion
yen target,” Tsubouchi said. DoCoMo can only get to as high as
800 billion yen growing its own businesses, he said. The company
expects 520 billion yen this fiscal year.  Takeover targets may benefit from accessing DoCoMo’s
customer base of about 60 million people or almost half of
Japan’s  population . To safeguard client data, DoCoMo will look
to buy majority stakes when doing deals, Tsubouchi said.  “That information can be useful to many businesses that
face slowing growth,” he said. “Still, it will only be used in
a way where it remains under DoCoMo’s control.”  iPhone Considerations  The new-businesses push is also influencing whether DoCoMo
will join competitors in offering Apple Inc. iPhones. The
carrier, the only major Japanese operator that doesn’t offer the
phones, is concerned that introducing them could hit growth in
its retail and entertainment platforms, Tsubouchi said. Still,
adding the devices may help retain customers, he said.  The carrier yesterday  rose  0.6 percent to 139,100 yen in
Tokyo. It has risen 12 percent this year, compared with an 11
percent advance for competitor Softbank Corp. and an 8.2 percent
gain for Japan’s benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average.  DoCoMo will separately consider a possible bond sale as a
way to help repay debt, Tsubouchi said. The company has 130
billion yen of  bonds  maturing this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “We can redeem the bonds with cash in hand, but it may not
be wise to stay distant from capital markets,” Tsubouchi said.  The company had 340.4 billion yen of cash and near-cash
items at the end of last year. Its  net income  in the nine months
through December rose 5.5 percent to 416 billion yen.  Tata Teleservices  DoCoMo is also assessing developments in the Indian
wireless market as it considers the future of its 26 percent
stake in Tata Teleservices Ltd. The carrier has put options in
regards to the stake, Tsubouchi said, without elaborating on how
much of the holding it can sell, at what price or until when.  Teleservices has been struggling to improve earnings after
failing to get a license for more bandwidth, Tsubouchi said.
DoCoMo will also look at the Indian company’s earnings and
industry consolidation before deciding on the fate of the stake
it bought for $2.7 billion in 2009, the CFO said.  Teleservices is in discussions on a combination with
Telenor ASA’s local operations, three people with knowledge of
the matter told Bloomberg News in November.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  