-- Dreamliner Customers Turn to 30-Year-Old Planes for Fleet
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2013-02-13T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/dreamliner-customers-lean-on-30-year-old-planes-to-fill-network.html
Airlines waiting for the state-of-
the-art Boeing Co. 787 Dreamliner to return to the skies are
relying on 30 year-old planes to fill gaps in their routes.  LOT Polish Airlines SA, the only European carrier so far
with Dreamliners in service, said it is using Boeing 767s to
work around its two grounded models, one of which is stuck in
Chicago following its maiden trans-Atlantic traverse. U.K. tour
operator Thomson Airways and  Norwegian Air Shuttle AS , the next
two European airlines due to receive 787s, said they will use
other planes to avoid the risk of stranded passengers.  Reverting to older aircraft bears the danger of a marketing
backlash, and airlines who typically plan network coverage
months in advance risk an open flank if an aircraft doesn’t get
delivered. Uncertainty over the duration of the grounding is
further complicating planning, said  Colm Barrington , chief
executive officer of Dublin-based  Fly Leasing Ltd .  “There is no doubt the 787 situation has caused strong
interest in the A330 and 767,” Barrington said. “People are
now talking about renewing leases that were set to expire.”  Boeing last week told airlines that are about to receive
Dreamliners that handovers will be delayed after a Jan. 16
decision by U.S. regulators to ground the jet. The aircraft
maker has not give airlines new delivery dates as it tries to
identify a fix to electrical flaws that caused a fire on a Japan
Airlines Co. jet.  Wet Lease  Lease extensions would require an airline to operate the
asset for at least one additional year, Barrington said.
Airlines can also rent jets from other carriers for shorter
periods, including crews, in what is called a wet lease in
aviation parlance. LOT said it would consider leasing another
aircraft for the summer season.  The Jan. 16 decision by U.S. regulators to ground 787s has
stranded 50 airliners after a fire on a plane that originated in
a lithium-ion battery. The root cause of the short-circuit has
still not been determined, making impossible predictions of when
the plane may again be operational.  “If the market perception forms that it is a long-term
issue, then that will give lessors the opportunity to push for
stronger terms and longer leases on used 767 and A330
equipment,” said  John Higgins , chief commercial officer at
Avolon, which owns six A330s. For now, such renegotiations are
still “isolated incidents,” he said.  Airbus Demand  The aircraft leasing business, created and championed by
 Steven Udvar-Hazy  at International Lease Finance Corp. almost
four decades ago before he set up  Air Lease Corp ., has expanded
in recent years as airlines seek to avoid big outlays of cash
and build in flexibility so they can adjust their fleets to boom
or bust times.  Lessors today own about 35 percent of the installed
airliner base, compared with less than 20 percent at the
beginning of the century. Single-aisle aircraft such as Boeing
737s and Airbus SAS A320s tend to comprise the bulk of lessors’
portfolios, because the smaller planes are the workhorses of the
industry and always in higher demand.  Still, larger models such as 787s, 777s, and A330s command
premium lease rates and are required for long-haul routes,
securing them a slot in many lessors’ portfolios.  Lease rates for the A330 were already strong even before
the 787 woes. The Airbus wide-body “is liked by nearly every
airline, from U.S. majors to Chinese carriers,” said  Aengus Kelly , the CEO of   Aercap Holdings . Aercap, with a portfolio of
333 owned and managed aircraft, has eight A330-200s, 22
A330-300s and three Boeing 767s.  Boeing Woes  Airbus had benefited from Boeing’s troubles with the
Dreamliner even before the aircraft was grounded. The three-year
delay of the 787 into service boosted demand for the 330 as a
suitable substitute, even as Airbus works to introduce a new
competitor, the A350, which is set for first flight this year
and introduction to service in 2014.  The 787 capacity bottleneck risks to become more critical
if it drags into the summer season for airlines when demand for
jets peaks, said Barrington, whose leasing business manages five
767s and one A330.  Boeing will need to change the battery system on the 787
which may take months to complete,  International Consolidated
Airlines Group SA  CEO  Willie Walsh  said on Feb. 10 in Dublin.
IAG’s  British Airways  unit, which currently operates 14 767s in
long-haul, expects to start taking delivery of 787s in May.  Delays in delivering the 787 have already eaten into spare
aircraft capacity,  John Strickland , director of airline advisory
JLS Consulting, said in an interview. Airlines such as
Norwegian, which is introducing a new product, also have find
crew to operate the replacement aircraft.  “We are heading into a peak period for key parts of the
aviation world so this is going to become a bigger issue in the
coming months,” Strickland said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  