-- Duke Energy Fourth-Quarter Profit Rises
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2013-02-13T13:29:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/duke-energy-fourth-quarter-profit-rises.html
Duke Energy Corp.  reported profit
rose 51 percent in the fourth quarter, the second period after
its $17.8 billion takeover of Progress Energy Inc. made it the
largest U.S. utility owner as cooler temperatures boosted
earnings from its regulated units.  Net income was $435 million, or 62 cents a share, compared
with $288 million, or 65 cents, a year earlier, Charlotte, North
Carolina-based Duke said in a statement today. Excluding costs
associated with the merger, charges for a coal gasification
plant in Indiana, discontinued operations and financial
contracts, per-share profit was 70 cents. That was more than the
average of 16 analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  The Progress purchase expanded Duke’s regulated sales of
power to customers, a segment in which revenue almost doubled to
$4.87 billion. Duke sees power demand increasing by less than 1
percent annually.  “It was a good start for the franchised electric and gas
business,”  Chief Financial Officer  Lynn Good  said today in a
telephone interview. “We continue to have a very cautious
outlook about load growth. For 2012, our load grew at slightly
less than 1 percent and we think that’s a reasonable planning
assumption.”  Rate Increases  Rate increases helped fourth-quarter results, Good said.
Duke has requested rate increases for both of its utilities in
North Carolina. The company expects new rates to be approved by
year-end, regardless of pending legislation to replace the
state’s utility regulators, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Jim Rogers said in the interview.  The effects of a cooler weather added 3 cents a share to
the company’s profit. In North Carolina, where Duke sells power
to  3.2 million homes and businesses , the fourth quarter was the
coolest in two years, according to the National Climatic Data
Center. Weather-driven demand for heating rose about 9.5 percent
from a year earlier, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Weather-driven heating demand also rose from a year earlier
in  Florida ,  Ohio ,  Indiana , and  Kentucky , where Duke sells power
to 3.9 million homes and businesses, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The earnings were released before regular trading began on
U.S. markets. Duke rose 1.6 percent to $69.50 yesterday in New
York. The shares have 11 buy and 12 hold  ratings  from analysts.  Crystal River  Costs related to the Feb. 5 decision to close the damaged
Crystal River 3 nuclear reactor in Florida were recorded as
goodwill in the purchase of Progress, Good said.  Goodwill on
Duke’s balance sheet was $16.4 billion at year-end, up from
$3.85 billion a year earlier, according to today’s statement.  Duke had said it would record fourth-quarter costs of about
$295 million for closing the plant. It has been shut down since
2009 by cracks in the concrete building that contains the
reactor.  Duke’s renewable energy unit added 4 cents a share of
profit.  Unfavorable exchange rates reduced profit for the quarter
by 1 cent a share, Duke said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  