-- The Stunning Economic Impact of the Civil Rights Movement
-- B y   G a v i n   W r i g h t
-- 2013-02-13T16:17:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/the-stunning-economic-impact-of-the-civil-rights-movement.html
The civil-rights revolution of the
1960s is now firmly embedded in American civic culture, an
inspiring story of courage in the face of violent oppression and
age-old injustices finally set right.  Less well-known is that the demand for economic justice was
one of the most successful and enduring features of that
movement.  Clearly there was an economic dimension to the campaigns
for equal treatment of blacks as consumers, with boycotts of
downtown business districts targeting lunch counters, movie
theaters, hotels and amusement parks.  Just as prominent were demands for “responsible jobs” that
had long been denied to blacks, no matter how large the black
share in the local population or consumer base. Fliers urging
consumers to boycott businesses that refused to employ black
workers were circulated during public-accommodation disputes
throughout the South.  In industrial settings, black workers fought for decades
against segregated promotion lines that denied them access to
higher-paying skilled and supervisory positions -- if they
weren’t excluded from an industry entirely, as was mostly true
in the case of textiles.  ‘The Change’  Federal legislation outlawing discrimination in employment
and voting had a dramatic effect on this situation, starting in
1964. The share of black employees at South Carolina textile
companies jumped from less than 5 percent in 1963 to more than
20 percent in 1970 and to more than a third by 1980. Similar
patterns were observed in all the Southern textile states.
According to oral histories, blacks in textile areas referred to
integration as “The Change,” and associated it with the reversal
of black regional migration in the 1960s and ’70s.  Although the industry later declined in response to global
competition, desegregation of textiles was the single-largest
contributor to the sharp increase in relative black incomes from
1965 to 1975, an exclusively Southern regional phenomenon,
according to economists John Donohue and  James Heckman . Not only
did black living standards improve, but mill workers with
limited schooling were often able to send their children to
college, taking advantage of expanding educational and
employment opportunities elsewhere in the region.  Gains in other sectors were longer in coming and often
required protracted litigation. But the basis for political and
legal mobilization was almost always in civil-rights
legislation. The Supreme Court’s Griggs decision of 1971 arose
in the aftermath of the Civil Rights Act, from a complaint by
long-segregated black laborers at Duke Power Co. By invalidating
racially biased testing, the court forced corporate employers to
re-examine their internal systems for hiring, transfer and
promotion.  The advent of affirmative action in corporate America is
well-known. Less often recognized is that advances for black
workers in skilled and white-collar employment were
overwhelmingly concentrated in the South, and that these gains
persisted through marked changes in the national political
climate.  The Voting Rights Act of 1965 had an immediate impact on
black-voter registration, and the number of black elected
officials increased gradually over the next 30 years. By this
measure, too, gains in the South far exceeded those in other
parts of the country, even allowing for regional differences in
racial demography. Political representation translated into real
economic gains for black Southerners, indicated by the
distribution of public services, access to public-sector
employment and racial equity in the allocation of government
contracts.  Economic Watershed  Even public-school desegregation, often derided today as a
misplaced priority or an outright failure, has had lasting
economic benefits, according to recent research. Long-term
studies by economists Sarah Reber,  Orley Ashenfelter , William
Collins, Albert Yoon and Rucker Johnson have found that Southern
school integration increased blacks’ graduation rates, test
scores, earnings and adult health status, while reducing the
probability of incarceration.  It is difficult to identify precisely what led to these
results (whether it was increased resources, better teachers or
peer effects) and to differentiate the impact of schooling from
that of expanded job opportunities for black graduates. But
these complex interconnections only confirm that the civil-
rights revolution was an economic watershed.  A striking feature of that revolution is that, for the most
part, economic gains for black Southerners didn’t come at the
expense of white Southerners. At no time during this era did
average white incomes fall as black incomes rose. Nor did
Southern whites’ graduation rates and test scores drop after
desegregation; instead these indicators continued their long-
term progress toward national norms.  What we see, in other words, is not a redistribution in the
name of historical justice, but an integration of black workers
into the regional economy. When we consider that the civil-
rights movement opened the South to inflows of capital,
creativity and new enterprises from around the world, it becomes
clear that most white Southerners were also long-term
beneficiaries of this revolution.  This record may be difficult to appreciate as the country
struggles to recover from a severe recession, which hit both the
South and blacks disproportionately. But current economic
struggles are all the more reason to remember the historic
lesson that interracial cooperation has benefits for all
concerned.  ( Gavin Wright  is the William Robertson Coe professor of
American economic history at Stanford University. His book
“ Sharing the Prize: The Economics of the Civil Rights Revolution
in the American South ,” will be published by Harvard University
Press this month. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more from Echoes  online .  To contact the writer of this post:
 Gavin Wright  at  write@stanford.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  