-- Lead Rises a Second Day on Speculation China Will Resume Buying
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z   a n d   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2013-02-13T10:57:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/lead-rises-a-second-day-on-speculation-china-will-resume-buying.html
Lead rose for a second day in
London, leading gains by industrial metals, on speculation top
consumer China will resume buying when markets in the country
reopen next week after the Lunar New Year holiday.  Manufacturing in China expanded for a fourth month in
January, a government-backed survey of purchasing managers
showed this month, and sales of passenger vehicles surged 49
percent to a monthly record. Demand for lead, used mostly in
batteries, will exceed supply next year, according to Credit
Suisse Group AG.  “We are quite optimistic about lead prospects,” said
 Andrew Shaw , head of base-metals research at Credit Suisse in
Singapore. “Underlying demand will grow, especially in the auto
industry in China and other emerging countries.”  Lead for delivery in three months gained 1 percent to
$2,437 a metric ton by 10:46 a.m. on the London Metal Exchange.
Prices are up 4.6 percent this year. Copper advanced 0.4 percent
to $8,273 a ton and futures for March delivery rose 0.3 percent
to $3.7565 a pound on the Comex in New York.  China accounts for about 45 percent of global lead
consumption, according to Barclays Plc.  Stockpiles  of the metal
tracked by the LME are down 10 percent this year, more than
aluminium or zinc, while inventories of copper, tin and nickel
have expanded.  Sentiment in the copper industry is the strongest since at
least June 2012, Macquarie Group Ltd. said Feb. 8 in a report.
It cited results of a survey in leading global consumer China.  “Stocks at most Chinese factories are low,”  Pengjiang “Richard” Fu , director for Asian commodities trading at
Newedge Group SA in London, said by e-mail. “They might need to
restock after the Chinese New Year as they restart
manufacturing. Some people expect the Chinese to buy after the
holiday, but it is still an uncertainty.”  Copper stockpiles monitored by the LME, up 25 percent this
year, fell 0.2 percent to 398,925 tons, daily figures showed.
Orders to remove the metal from warehouses climbed 0.6 percent
to 31,475 tons on bookings in Busan, South Korea.  Aluminum, nickel, zinc and tin gained in London.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Agnieszka Troszkiewicz  in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net ;
 Chanyaporn Chanjaroen  in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  