-- EADS Proposes Ranque as Chairman Joining CEO Enders for Revamp
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-02-13T18:34:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/eads-proposes-ranque-as-chairman-joining-ceo-enders-for-revamp.html
European Aeronautic, Defence & Space
Co.  nominated  Denis Ranque , a former Chief Executive Officer of
 Thales SA , to become its new chairman at a March 27 shareholder
meeting.  Ranque, 61, will join the EADS board with  Tom Enders 
remaining CEO, the Toulouse, France-based company said today in
a statement. Ranque will replace  Arnaud Lagardere  following an
investor reshuffle last year.  The new board, which would include former European Central
Bank Chairman  Jean-Claude Trichet , will work with Enders to
define a new strategy for Europe’s biggest aerospace and defense
company following a failed merger attempt with  BAE Systems Plc .
The plan could see EADS scale back defense ambitions when its
unveiled mid-year.  Ranque is “well connected particularly within the French
establishment” and is an interesting appointment, said  Zafar Khan , a London-based analyst at Societe General who has a buy
rating on EADS shares. “Some people say that operationally he
could have done better at Thales, but this isn’t an operating
position.”  Thales is a major provider of military electronics
including for France’s Rafale combat aircraft. EADS has
expressed interest in taking over Thales in the past, though the
moves were blocked by the French government, which owns 27
percent.  Shoring Up  EADS shareholders of record at the close of trading on Feb.
27 will also be asked to approve a buyback of as much as 15
percent of company shares, which would be canceled. The move is
aimed at shoring up the price as institutional shareholders
 Daimler AG  and Lagardere SA move to reduce their stakes.  EADS stakeholders in December agreed the largest revamp of
the company’s governance structure since its inception in 2000,
clearing the way for institutional shareholders to exit,
reducing government direct control in operational affairs, and
increasing the free-float in the company’s shares.  Some government coordination requirements remain. EADS,
which owns a stake in French combat aircraft maker  Dassault
Aviation , is promising the French government the first right to
purchase any shares it may sell.  EADS shares closed up 0.6 percent to 35.18 euros in Paris
trading before the announcement, valuing the business at 29.1
billion euros ($39.1 billion).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  