-- Edison Seeking Energy Storage to Meet California Requirement
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2013-02-13T23:50:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/edison-seeking-energy-storage-to-meet-california-requirement.html
Edison International , the owner of
California’s second-largest utility, will seek contracts for at
least 50 megawatts of energy-storage capacity to ensure long-
term energy supplies in the Los Angeles area.  The company’s Southern California Edison utility must
procure the energy storage resources as part of a plan to supply
as much as 1,800 megawatts of electrical capacity in the area,
according to an e-mailed statement today from the San Francisco-
based California Public Utilities Commission.  The requirement is the first of its kind for a utility in
the state, according to Janice Lin, executive director of the
California Energy Storage Alliance, an advocacy group.  “It’s a first. It’s pretty big in that regard,” Lin said
today by telephone. “A whole lot of different types of
companies are eyeing this market, with particular great interest
from traditional power plant and renewable energy developers.”  The requirement is separate from a 2010 law that requires
regulators to set energy storage mandates for utilities in 2015
and 2020. Those mandates are expected to be finalized by
October, Lin said.  Edison’s applications for the Los Angeles-area energy
storage resources are expected to be submitted in late 2013 or
early 2014, according to a commission  filing . The amount of
energy storage added may be more than 50 megawatts, because the
commission also authorized the utility to procure as much as an
additional 600 megawatts from energy efficiency, demand
response, distributed generation or energy storage resources,
according to the filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in San Francisco at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  