-- Medtronic’s Brain Device Improves Early-Stage Parkinson’s
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-02-14T16:29:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/medtronic-s-brain-device-improves-early-stage-parkinson-s.html
Patients with early  Parkinson’s 
disease who respond to drug therapy gain improvement in their
symptoms and quality of life when they receive deep-brain
stimulation from an implanted medical device, a study showed.  Brain stimulation  is now reserved for advanced Parkinson’s
patients with severe complications and inconsistent response to
drug treatment. The findings suggest patients at an earlier
stage of the disease may do even better, reaping benefits before
the progressive neurological illness has eroded their physical
function, social activity and professional lives.  The researchers tracked 251 patients with Parkinson’s for
an average of 7.5 years after they were treated with drug
therapy, or drugs plus deep-brain stimulation with  Medtronic
Inc. ’s Kinetra or Soletra devices. Quality of life improved
significantly for those getting both treatments, while it
worsened slightly for those given only drugs, according to the
study published yesterday in the  New England Journal of
Medicine .  “The observed difference between the treatment groups is
thus due to an improvement among patients receiving
neurostimulation,” said the researchers led by Michael
Schuepbach, from the  University of Pierre and Marie Curie  and
 Inserm  in Paris. “As a main benefit from the patient’s
perspective, activities of daily living were improved among
patients with neurostimulation in the worst condition during the
day.”  Patients receiving brain stimulation also had a
significantly greater improvement in being able to take care of
themselves, their emotional well-being and cognition than
reported in previous studies involving more severe patients, the
researchers said. The stimulation didn’t improve mobility and
was linked to additional side effects, including suicide.  Cases Rising  About 1.5 million people in the U.S. have Parkinson’s,
according to the Parkinson’s Disease Foundation. The number is
expected to double by 2030 because of the aging population,
 Caroline Tanner , from  Stanford University School of Medicine ’s
department of health research and policy, and the Parkinson’s
Institute in Sunnyvale, California, wrote in an editorial
accompanying the study.  People with the neurological disease gradually lose neurons
that make the brain chemical dopamine. The lack of dopamine
leads to increasing activity in a part of the brain called the
subthalamic nucleus, which influences movement.  Early Treatment  Early-stage Parkinson’s patients now are treated with drugs
designed to increase dopamine in the brain. They typically lose
their benefits after several years and trigger serious side
effects. That is when deep-brain stimulation is employed to
shoot an electrical current into the subthalamic area of the
brain and block the signals that cause symptoms of the disease.  The patients in the study were 60 years old or younger, in
good health and still responding to drug treatment, a relatively
small subset of those with Parkinson’s disease, Tanner wrote.
It’s not clear if similar benefits will emerge in older, more
conventional patients who often have other ailments, she said.  The stimulation doesn’t stop the progression of the disease
itself and improves only some of the motor symptoms, she said.  “Ideally, treatment of Parkinson’s disease should improve
not only motor, but all features of the disease,” Tanner said.
“Neurostimulation of the subthalamic nucleus does not
ameliorate all symptoms of Parkinson’s disease, but for
carefully chosen, highly functioning patients, it may provide
many additional years of good functioning.”  Medtronic, based in Minneapolis, is the only company with a
brain stimulation device approved to treat Parkinson’s disease.
 St. Jude Medical Inc. , based in St. Paul, Minnesota, and  Boston
Scientific Corp.  from Natick, Massachusetts, sell similar
devices in Europe and are pursuing U.S. Food and Drug
Administration approval.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  