-- Egypt’s Islamists Woo Mubarak Tycoons as Mursi Seeks Funds
-- B y   D a v i d   J .   L y n c h
-- 2013-02-14T11:56:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/egypt-islamist-elite-woos-mubarak-tycoons-as-mursi-seeks-funds.html
Black lacquered walls and
crystalline lighting greeted attendees at a two-day London
conference touting investment opportunities in Egypt.  For some of those in what the May Fair Hotel calls its
“gorgeously opulent” Danziger meeting room, the Jan. 14-15
sales pitch was personal. Wealthy exiles from post-revolutionary
Egypt, they were being invited home by representatives of the
country’s Islamic government, including Hassan Malek, a leading
businessman in the Muslim Brotherhood.  “Most of these investors, they own large projects in
Egypt,” said Malek, who spoke at the conference. “Their coming
back mostly would be a sign of reassurance to others who might
want to invest their money here.”  Egyptian President  Mohamed Mursi , struggling to reduce an
 unemployment  rate of 12.5 percent, is wooing the cash, Davos-
caliber rolodexes and management savvy of men such as auto and
banking investor  Yassin Mansour  and  Hamed El Chiaty , chairman of
the Travco hotel and tourism company. They are among the
insiders who fled the collapsing regime of President  Hosni Mubarak  in early 2011.  If they came home, the Mubarak-era tycoons would find a
country in a state of political paralysis and economic decay. On
Jan. 29, Defense Minister  Abdelfatah Al-Seesi  warned that the
continuing turmoil risked “the collapse of the state.”  The courtship of the old elite by the new underscores both
the political change that has occurred since the revolution and
the difficulties involved in rebooting an  economy  growing at an
annual rate of less than 2 percent.  Skewed Wealth  Plummeting  foreign direct investment , a stock index at half
its 2008 peak and a stalled $4.8 billion International Monetary
Fund Loan bring urgency to the effort. At the same time, Mursi,
who was elected in a vote in which half of Egyptian voters
abstained, can’t risk alienating his backers by being seen as
allying himself with the business class that benefited from
Mubarak’s rule.  That group’s lopsided profits from Egypt’s post-2004
economic liberalization gave free markets a bad name with the
public, complicating Mursi’s efforts to unshackle the economy.  “We’re going to see new people coming up and their
businesses flourish. We’re going to see people from the old
regime bending down and making deals,” said  Raymond Khalife ,
Cairo-based adviser to the chairman of  Semiramis Hotels . “And
we’re going to see people go out of business because they can’t
get along with this regime.”  Settlement Plan  Speakers at the London conference, organized by Egyptian
investment bank CI Capital, included Investment Minister  Osama Saleh  and Central Bank Governor-nominee  Hisham Ramez , who has
since taken office.  Officials are trying to ease the return of the exiles
through legislation that would allow businessmen to settle their
financial disputes with the government, the state-run Ahram
Online reported today.  One fugitive Mubarak backer, Hussein Salem, 79, has offered
to settle tax evasion and corruption charges by giving the
government half his fortune, his lawyer told the Egypt
Independent newspaper on Jan. 20.  Still, Magdi Tolba, chief executive officer of exporter
 Cairo Cotton Center , said he is skeptical the government’s
campaign will work.  “They will not come back until they see a different
environment,” he said in an interview. “It’s not enough for
them to get promises in London. They take the plane and come
back and tomorrow they’re in jail.”  ‘Real Entrepreneurs’  Samir Radwan , who was finance minister in the months after
the uprising, said the Brotherhood’s business allies also lack
the global resumes of Mubarak’s tycoons. Under the old regime,
members of the secretive opposition group were limited to retail
or trading businesses of middling rank, forbidden to build the
industrial and real estate empires helmed by Mubarak’s well-
connected few -- and subject to occasional jail time.  Imprisoned on charges of money-laundering and illegally
financing the Muslim Brotherhood, Malek, a furniture and
clothing distributor, was released only after Mubarak fell, two
years ago this week.  “The group of businessmen around Mubarak, in general, they
were real businessmen and real entrepreneurs and they understood
economics,” said Radwan, citing ex-trade minister  Rachid Mohamed Rachid,  a former executive vice-president of  Unilever 
for the region, as an example. Malek and his counterparts don’t
“have an economic vision on how to get this country out of this
crisis.”  Debt Premium  Egypt needs help. To cover its widening budget deficit and
replenish dwindling foreign currency reserves, the government
requires about $20 billion in annual external financing,
according to the Institute of International Finance in
Washington.  Investors are keeping their distance. Foreign direct
investment has shriveled to almost nothing from more than 3
percent of gross domestic product in 2010, the IIF says. The
benchmark  EGX30 stock index  is down 14 percent since the January
2011 start of the uprising.  The premium investors demand to hold Egyptian debt over
similar-maturity U.S. securities has almost doubled since then,
to 506 basis points. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point. And
this week, Moody’s Investors Service cut Egypt’s bond rating to
six levels below investment grade, the fifth reduction in two
years.  Borrowing Costs  Egypt’s pound is among the 10 biggest decliners in the
world against the dollar this year, down 5.4 percent, and non-
deliverable pound forwards show investors expect an additional 8
percent drop over next three months. Government domestic
borrowing costs since the start of the uprising have climbed by
about a third.  “Businessmen abroad and investors, both domestic and
foreign, have a real wait-and-see attitude,” said  Mohsin Khan ,
former head of the IMF’s Middle East department and now at the
Washington-based Atlantic Council. “They’re sitting on their
hands. They’re sitting on their wallets.”  What’s holding the exiles back is fear. In the two years
since Mubarak’s ouster, several businessmen and former
government ministers have been prosecuted for corruption. Steel
executive  Ahmed Ezz , a former official in the ruling National
Democratic Party who was already serving a 10-year sentence for
corruption, was sentenced in October to a seven-year term for
money laundering and fined more than $3 billion. His 10-year
sentence was overturned and a new trial ordered in December.  Jailed Brothers  Mubarak’s sons,  Gamal , 49, the fulcrum of the regime’s
business clique, and Alaa, 52, are among the imprisoned
government officials awaiting trial.  The exiles include former finance minister  Youssef Boutros Ghali , 60, and Rachid, 58. Both were tried last year and
convicted in absentia -- Boutros-Ghali’s trial lasted six
minutes -- and are listed as wanted for fraud on Interpol’s  web
site .  Cairo is scarred by political tumult, which flared
following Mursi’s Nov. 22 decree temporarily placing his
decisions beyond judicial review. Outside the Intercontinental
Semiramis Hotel, which was ransacked by a mob in an hours-long
Jan. 29 assault that drew no police response, a row of five
decorative palm trees has been decapitated. Scorch marks dot the
curb, which is lined with small drifts of broken glass.  In nearby Tahrir Square, street toughs idly tossing rocks
and toddlers coated with filth populate a squalid tent city.
Vendors peddle black masks worn by a shadowy anti-government
group of protesters called the “Black Blocs,” which has no
identified leaders. The government has blamed the group for
recent acts of violence.  In Revolution  “We haven’t had a revolution. We’re in a revolution,”
said Angus Blair, president of the  Signet Institute , a Cairo-
based financial research institute.  Under Mubarak, prominent families were represented atop
both large companies and the government agencies whose decisions
determined profit and loss. Mansour, the former chief executive
officer of Palm Hills Development Co., one of Egypt’s largest
developers, has a brother and cousin who served in Mubarak’s
cabinet. The privately owned  Mansour Group  also is involved in
automotive, retailing and banking.  Phone calls to Mansour’s companies weren’t answered. El
Chiaty’s representatives didn’t reply to questions sent at their
request by e-mail.  Public-private ties contributed to state companies being
sold for a fraction of their actual value, Egyptian courts found
in 2011. Several privatizations, including that of the iconic
state-owned department store chain Omar Effendi, have been
reversed since Mubarak’s overthrow.  Brotherhood Outreach  Wary of stirring public anger, Malek, 54, stressed that
only those businessmen who aren’t facing corruption charges are
welcome back. Mansour, for instance, was acquitted in July 2011
of making illegal profits and facilitating profiteering.
Likewise, if Mursi now embraces the policies associated with
Mubarak’s moguls, he risks a backlash.  That’s why the government has been reluctant to embrace the
subsidy cuts and tax increases required to win the IMF
financing, desperately needed to offset declining reserves.  “They’re squeezed politically,” said  Steven Cook , a
senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations in Washington.
“They have to show things are different than under Mubarak,
even though they’re on board with neoliberal reforms.”  The Muslim Brotherhood, outlawed during Mubarak’s 30-year
rule, began reaching out last year to business executives who
doubt the Islamic group’s commitment to market principles.  Private Financing  Khairat el-Shater , 62, the brotherhood’s deputy supreme
guide and himself a wealthy retailer,  told  a May 2012 American
Chamber of Commerce in Egypt luncheon that “private financing”
should lead Egypt’s economic revival.  The intersection of government and business lies in the
550-member  Egyptian Business Development Association , headed by
Malek, whose  Malek Group  owns a stake in Turkish furniture
company Istikbal among other investments. The business group
aims to support the small and medium-sized businesses that were
neglected under the old regime’s top-down strategy. Open to
Christians and Muslims, EBDA provides advice and vocational
training and is raising a $200 million venture capital fund.  Osama Farid, 59, chairman of Project Engineering Co. and
head of EBDA’s international-affairs unit, said that open trade,
anti-corruption efforts and transparency will distinguish
Egypt’s new economy. Countries such as Singapore, Malaysia and
Turkey will be Egypt’s role models, he added.  “We have to look at what’s going on in the global
economy,” Farid said. “Egypt should be a global hub.”  Conversation Buzz  On a recent day, the Cairo headquarters of post-
revolutionary Egypt’s leading business lobby wasn’t much to look
at. The elevator was broken and electrical wires protruded from
holes in the wall along the darkened staircase.  Inside the third-floor office, recessed lighting, brown
faux leather couches and a conversational buzz betrayed an air
of deals being done.  Wearing a dark blue suit bearing a faint pinstripe and
speaking in measured tones, Malek laughed off an assertion by
Radwan that he and other Brotherhood members had been buying at
deep discount the assets of the former regime’s supporters.  Such suspicions, he says, are based on the erroneous
assumption that the Islamist government’s business allies will
be as rapacious as the capitalists they’ve supplanted. “We’re
using a different set of rules now,” he says.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David J. Lynch  in Washington at 
 dlynch27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  