-- Egypt Pound Decline Accelerates After Ramez Attack, Moody’s Cut
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2013-02-13T13:38:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/egypt-offers-40-million-at-currency-auction-after-moody-s-cut.html
The Egyptian pound weakened the most
this month as domestic security deteriorated and Moody’s
Investors Service cut the country’s credit rating because of
political turmoil.  The average price of dollars at auction today fell 0.2
percent compared with a sale two days ago, the biggest
depreciation since Jan. 31. The central bank sold $38.9 million
at an auction of the U.S. currency at a weighted average price
of 6.7188 pounds, according to its data on Bloomberg. Banks
received on average 23.8 percent of the amounts they bid for,
the data show, the lowest ratio this month.  Masked gunmen attacked Central Bank Governor  Hisham Ramez ’s
car this morning, killing a police guard. The incident
highlights the lack of security two years after the uprising
that ousted  Hosni Mubarak . Ramez wasn’t in the vehicle, he said
by phone today. Moody’s cut Egypt’s rating yesterday to B3, six
levels below investment grade, citing civil unrest and last
month’s biggest drop in foreign reserves in a year.  “We’re at a point where the central bank governor’s car is
getting attacked, which shows how serious the security problem
is here,”  Amr Seif , chief dealer at Piraeus Bank Egypt, said by
phone. “This means we’re not likely to see sustained foreign
investment inflows in the near future, even if we get an IMF
deal, because we need a complete restructuring of security and
the economy.”  The unrest “complicates” the North African country’s
ability to secure and implement a $4.8 billion International
Monetary Fund loan accord needed to build investor confidence
after reserves fell to $13.6 billion, Moody’s said.  The pound, whose movement in the interbank market was
capped by the central bank last week to 1 piaster above the
weighted average of the most recent auction, retreated 0.2
percent to 6.7288 a dollar as of 2:04 p.m. in Cairo, according
to National Bank of Egypt prices, bringing its loss since the
currency auctions started to 8 percent.  The yield on the benchmark  5.75 percent dollar-denominated
bonds  due in April 2020 retreated three basis points, or 0.03 of
a percentage point, to 6.78 percent, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The yield had climbed 15 basis points yesterday
after Moody’s decision.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  