-- Heineken Earnings Beat Estimates as Savings Combat Europe
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2013-02-13T10:35:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/heineken-reports-sales-that-fall-short-of-analysts-estimates.html
Heineken NV,  the world’s third-
biggest brewer, reported full-year earnings that beat estimates
as cost savings offset weaker beer shipments in western Europe.  Earnings before interest and tax, excluding some items,
rose to 2.9 billion euros ($3.9 billion) from 2.7 billion euros
a year earlier, the Amsterdam-based maker of Amstel and
Strongbow cider said in a statement today. That exceeded the
median  estimate  of 10 analysts for profit of 2.85 billion euros.  Heineken gained as much as 5.2 percent to the highest since
at least 1989 in Amsterdam. The brewer cut 196 million euros of
costs in 2012 through changes to the way it buys raw goods and
services. Profitability will improve in 2013, the company said,
as volume and revenue continue to advance, with African, Latin
American and Asia Pacific markets offsetting weakness in Europe.  “Earnings growth is driven by emerging markets and the
cost savings,”  Richard Withagen,  an analyst at SNS Securities,
wrote in a note. “We expect this to continue in 2013.”  Today’s share price  gain  was the steepest since Sept. 19.
The stock was up 3.7 percent at 53.88 euros as of 11:10 a.m.  Heineken said it expects 525 million euros of savings in
2012 through 2014, raising the target from 500 million euros.
The increased goal reflects last year’s acquisition of full
control of Asia Pacific Breweries Ltd. The company will book a
further 100 million euros in charges to implement the program.  The price of goods to make its beer will show a “slight”
increase this year, Heineken said.  Emerging Markets  Revenue last year rose 3.9 percent, excluding acquisitions
and currency swings, the company said. That missed the 4.4
percent average estimate. So-called consolidated beer volume,
excluding the effect of acquisitions, increased 2.4 percent,
less than the 2.5 percent increase analysts anticipated.  Heineken is seeking growth in emerging markets to offset
stumbling demand in western Europe, its biggest region. The
brewer paid S$5.6 billion ($4.5 billion) last year for control
of its joint venture in Asia Pacific to expand in countries
including Vietnam and take advantage of faster sales growth.  Heineken, which this month announced a strategic review of
its Finnish unit, said it will seek to increase sales of higher-
priced beers across western Europe despite it being affected by
“economic uncertainty” and government cost-cutting measures.  Beer volume in the region declined 2 percent in 2012 and
revenue edged down 0.1 percent, led by Spain and its home market
of the Netherlands. The French government increased taxes on
beer in January, following an increase in levies on spirits in
2012. Heineken said it saw a 0.5 percentage point boost to
volume in the fourth quarter as customers bought ahead of the
tax increase. Estimating the effect of the increase on beer
volumes in 2013 is difficult, the company said.  ‘Unpredictable Environment’  “Europe is a very unpredictable environment for us to do
business” as governments take action to address budget
deficits, Chief Executive Officer  Jean-Francois Van Boxmeer  said
today on a call with reporters. “It’s very difficult to predict
in which direction it’ll go, but I’ll tell you one thing -- it
doesn’t do good things for our business.”  Competitor SABMiller Plc has reported third-quarter beer
volume that also fell short of estimates as “depressed”
consumer confidence in markets including the Czech Republic and
Poland stinted sales. Heineken said today that volume in Poland
increased even as the country suffered low consumer confidence.
Eastern European volume increased as sales in Russia and Romania
helped offset a tough market in Greece.  Sales and  profitability  increased in the faster-growing
markets of the Americas, Asia-Pacific and Africa and the Middle
East, Heineken said.  James Bond  Full-year revenue rose 7.4 percent to 18.4 billion euros.
The brewer increased the volume of its Heineken brand beer sales
by 5.3 percent, benefiting from a promotional partnership in
2012 with the James Bond movie franchise.  Heineken said that an appreciation of the Nigerian naira,
British pound and Mexican peso helped increase earnings by 63
million euros in 2012. Van Boxmeer doesn’t expect “big
changes” in the euro, he said. The company has 81 percent of
its U.S. dollar needs hedged at $1.31 to the euro for 2013.  Net income before exceptional items and amortization,
excluding the effect of acquisitions and currency swings, was
1.7 billion euros. The company said in August 2012 it
anticipated profit on that basis “broadly in line” with the
1.58 billion euros reported last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  