-- Telenor Posts Profit as Sales Top Estimates on Norway, Asia
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2013-02-13T08:11:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/telenor-posts-profit-as-revenue-beats-estimates-on-norway-asia.html
Telenor ASA , the Nordic region’s
largest phone operator, reported a fourth-quarter profit as
revenue beat analysts’ estimates on rising sales in its home
market and Asia.  Net income was 3.19 billion kroner ($582 million) after a
loss a year earlier, Telenor said today in a statement. Analysts
predicted 3.41 billion kroner, the average of 14 estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Sales rose 2.2 percent to 26 billion
kroner, compared with the 25.6 billion-krone average projection.  Chief Executive Officer  Jon Fredrik Baksaas  is expanding
the Fornebu, Norway-based company’s wireless network in its home
markets to fend off rivals and boost revenue. As competition
weighs on prices at home, the phone operator is adding users in
Asia while seeking to reduce costs by 5 billion kroner over the
next four years.  “The continued solid performance by our Norwegian
operation reflects high demand for both mobile and fixed-line
Internet services,” Baksaas said in the statement.  Sales this year will probably increase 3 percent to 5
percent, excluding the effect of acquisitions and currency
swings, Telenor said. Adjusted earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization will probably be about 34 percent
of revenue, it said. The carrier wrote down 4 billion kroner of
goodwill from its Danish operations.  Revenue Growth  Revenue in Norway, Telenor’s largest market, rose 2 percent
to 6.52 billion kroner last quarter as the company added 14,000
Internet subscribers. Telenor’s Malaysian division DiGi last
week reported that fourth-quarter sales gained 7.3 percent,
while DTAC in Thailand boosted revenue 19 percent.  Telenor’s Ebitda margin target for this year of 34 percent
was less than expected,  Thomas Nielsen , an analyst at Pareto
Securities in Oslo, said in an e-mail. He anticipated a margin
goal of 35 percent. Telenor forecast capital expenditure as a
percentage of sales this year at 12 percent to 14 percent,
higher than an earlier prediction of 10 percent, he said.  Telenor  shares  slipped 0.4 percent to 118.6 kroner at 9:05
a.m. in Oslo trading, paring the gain this year to 5.7 percent.
The carrier is recommending a dividend of 6 kroner a share, an
increase from last year’s payment of 5 kroner.  The loss a year earlier was 2.71 billion kroner as the
carrier recorded impairment charges for its Indian operation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  