-- MEMC Climbs as Fourth-Quarter Loss Narrows on Solar Profits
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n   a n d   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2013-02-13T21:12:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/memc-climbs-as-fourth-quarter-loss-narrows-on-solar-unit-profits.html
MEMC Electronic Materials Inc. , the
second-largest U.S. polysilicon maker, rose the most in more
than a month after reporting a narrower fourth-quarter loss on
improved results at its solar unit.  MEMC climbed 7.1 percent to $4.82 at the close in New York,
the most since Jan. 3.  The fourth-quarter loss narrowed to $11.8 million, or 5
cents a share, from $1.48 billion, or $6.44 a share, a year
earlier related to a restructuring effort announced in December
2011, the St. Peters, Missouri-based company said today in a
statement. Analysts had expected the company to lose 16 cents a
share, the average of eight estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The company’s solar unit reported net income of $91.8
million, compared with a loss of $1.16 billion a year earlier
when it took a charge of $1.12 billion for restructuring.
Revenue at the unit, which slipped to $372 million from $490
million from a year ago, gained 3 percent from the previous
quarter’s $361 million.  MEMC recognized $54.4 million in deferred revenue for a
solar project in the fourth quarter. It’s sometimes hard to
predict when sales for solar farms should be included in the
company’s earnings, which will make its results fluctuate, said
Chief Financial Officer  Brian Wuebbels .  “As we’ve said before, precise timing of product sales is
difficult to forecast,” he said on a conference call today.  No Forecast  The company didn’t provide a forecast and plans to discuss
its operations in more detail at an event for investors March
13, Bill Michalek, a spokesman, said by phone today.  Providing more information about MEMC’s project pipeline
and revenue forecast will give analysts a better idea of the
company’s potential earnings this year, said  Jeffrey Osborne , an
analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in New York.  “The cash flow dynamics for 2013, that’s where a lot of
the confusion is,” Osborne said in an interview. “The backlog
number being down will concern some people, with more
speculative projects in emerging-market countries.”  Hemlock Semiconductor Corp. is the biggest U.S. polysilicon
producer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net ;
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  