-- Emerging Stocks Rise Most in Two Weeks Amid U.S. Spending
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-02-13T22:30:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/emerging-stocks-advance-most-in-2-weeks-as-nuclear-concerns-ease.html
Emerging-market stocks rose the most
in two weeks as President Barack Obama’s proposed spending on
infrastructure and environmental programs bolstered the outlook
for the world’s largest economy.  Energy stocks led the gains in the MSCI Emerging Markets
Index, climbing 1.1 percent and pushing Russia’s  Micex Index  to
the biggest advance since Jan. 8.  Hyundai Motor Co.  and Kia
Motors Corp. rose at least 2.4 percent in Seoul.  America Movil
SAB , the mobile-phone company controlled by billionaire Carlos
Slim, tumbled 10 percent as profit missed estimates on increased
competition. The Bovespa Index fell as trading in Brazil resumed
after the the 2 1/2-day Carnival holiday.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index added 0.6 percent to
1,064.88 in New York, the biggest jump since Jan. 29. Obama
pledged to expand trade with Europe in the State of the Union
speech late yesterday. He also proposed spending $50 billion on
“urgent” infrastructure projects.  “It’s encouraging to see the U.S. president talking about
spending,”  Alan Gayle , senior strategist at RidgeWorth Capital
Management, said in a phone interview from Richmond, Virginia.
His firm oversees about $47 billion, including emerging market
stocks. “It tells me the world’s largest economy is healing.
That bodes well for global growth.”  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets exchange-traded fund rose
for a second day in New York, adding 0.5 percent to $44.17, the
highest since Feb. 1. The  Chicago Board Options Exchange
Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index , a measure of options
prices on the fund and expectations of price swings, declined
4.7 percent to 15.84.  Record Low  The emerging-markets index’s 100-day  volatility  was at 8.5,
a record low, according to data compiled by Bloomberg dating
back to 2003.  Russia’s Micex gauge climbed 1.7 percent in its first gain
in six days. OAO LSR Group, a Russian developer, rose 3.1
percent in Moscow, snapping a five-day losing streak. Demand for
new primary housing in the Moscow and St. Petersburg regions is
set to be sustained, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in an e-
mailed note dated yesterday.  OAO Alrosa, a Russian diamond miner, jumped 4.1 percent.
Russia has started seeking companies to organize the sale of
shares in Alrosa held by the state, according to the Federal
Property Management Agency.  Synthos SA, a Polish chemical producer, rose 2.4 percent in
Warsaw. The management board recommended a payout of at least
661.6 million zloty ($213.1 million), exceeding its estimate of
2012 net income at 585 million zloty, according to a statement
yesterday.  Bumi Rallies  PT Bumi Resources Tbk, a Jakarta-based coal producer,
jumped to the highest level since October, leading gains in the
MSCI Emerging Markets Energy Index. Bakrie Group moved closer to
separating the company from Bumi Plc.  South Korea’s Kospi Index rebounded 1.6 percent after
falling 0.3 percent yesterday when North Korea conducted its
third nuclear test. South Korea’s currency and stocks have
historically been resilient to nuclear tests by its northern
neighbor, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The won strengthened 2.4 percent April 6, 2009, the first
trading day after a long-range rocket was fired, and the
benchmark equity index advanced 1.1 percent. Seven weeks later,
when the communist regime announced a nuclear test, initial
declines were recouped within a week.  ‘Quick Recovery’  “Previous nuclear tests by the North had a short-term
impact on markets, with a quick recovery in the following
days,” Kim Chul Jung, a Seoul-based strategist at Korea
Investment & Securities Co., said by phone yesterday. “This
time around, the impact appears to be even more marginal due to
North Korea’s repeated signals about an upcoming test.”  Hyundai Motor gained 2.4 percent, closing at the highest
level since Jan. 23, while Kia Motors advanced 3.9 percent.
 Samsung Electronics Co. , the world’s biggest maker of mobile
phones, rose for a third day to the highest level since Jan. 16.  The BSE India Sensitive Index, or Sensex, advanced 0.2
percent, gaining for a second day.  United Breweries Holdings Ltd. , which owns stakes in  Vijay Mallya’s  six companies, lost 9.7 percent. Indian lenders to
grounded carrier Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. will start the process
of recovering as much as 85 billion rupees ($1.6 billion) of
dues after owner Mallya failed to repay debt, Shyamal Acharya,
deputy managing director of State Bank of India, said in an
interview to Bloomberg TV India today.  America Movil  Mexico’s IPC index dropped 1.7 percent, the most since
June. America Movil slumped 10 percent as slower economic growth
hurt voice revenue in the fourth quarter and in January.  Brazil’s Bovespa index fell 0.2 percent as economists
surveyed by the central bank raised their 2013 inflation
forecasts for a sixth week. Billionaire  Eike Batista ’s logistics
unit LLX Logistica SA slumped after a contract to lease space in
Acu port was canceled.  Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd., the casino venture of
billionaire James Packer and  Lawrence Ho , rallied 2.1 percent in
New York after data showing Macau casinos received record
visitors this week. Trina Solar Ltd. led declines in solar
stocks, tumbling 5.8 percent.  Markets in China and Taiwan are shut this week for the
Lunar New Year holidays, while those in Hong Kong will be closed
from Feb. 11 through Feb. 13.  Turkey’s ISE National 100 Index fell 0.2 percent and the
lira strengthened 0.5 percent versus the dollar. The country’s
current-account deficit narrowed to about 6 percent of gross
domestic product last year as a government report showed the gap
at $4.66 billion in December, less than analysts estimated.  Investment Grade  The Philippine Stock Exchange Index climbed 1.1 percent to
a record. Philippines central bank Deputy Governor  Diwa Guinigundo  said today the nation can win its first investment-
grade credit rating this year. Moody’s Investors Service, Fitch
Rating and Standard & Poor’s grade the nation’s debt at the
highest junk level. The country’s economy will grow 6 percent to
7 percent this year and accelerate further in 2014, Economic
Planning Secretary  Arsenio Balisacan  said today.  Thailand’s SET index snapped six days of losses to close at
the highest level since 1994.  While the MSCI Emerging Markets Index is trading 0.9
percent above its closing level at the end of 2012, the gauge
has fallen 1.6 percent from a 17-month high reached on Jan. 3 as
61 percent of its companies that have reported quarterly  profit 
missed analysts’ estimates. That’s almost twice the rate for the
MSCI World Index of developed nations, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries slipped five basis points, or 0.05
percentage points, to 269 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  