-- Emirates NBD Advises Clients to Buy Emerging Stocks Over Bonds
-- B y   M a h m o u d   K a s s e m
-- 2013-02-13T12:32:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/emirates-nbd-advises-clients-to-buy-emerging-stocks-over-bonds.html
Emirates NBD PJSC, the biggest
United Arab Emirates bank by assets, said it’s advising clients
to buy emerging-market equities and commodities after a bond
rally trimmed returns from fixed income.  “We see investment opportunities in equities and
commodities across the globe, including the Middle East and
North Africa, where we favor high dividend equities over fixed
income,”  Mark McFarland,  chief investment strategist at
Emirates NBD Wealth Management, said at a conference in Dubai
today.  The Dubai-based lender follows banks including Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc’s wealth management unit, Coutts & Co., in
recommending equity investments this year. Emerging-market
stocks will offer returns of as much as 15 percent this year,
beating gains from bonds,  Gary Dugan,  Coutts’ chief investment
officer for Asia and the Middle East, said Feb. 6.  Japanese shares, as well as equities across Asia, Latin
America and Russia, are attractive as inflows from developed
countries grows, McFarland said. European stocks should be
avoided due to political risks and U.S. shares don’t offer much
value at current prices, he said. Equities on the MSCI Emerging
Markets Index trade at  8.7 times  expected 2013 earnings,
compared with a multiple of 13.7 for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Emerging-market bonds rallied last year, with the JPMorgan
Chase & Co. Emerging Markets Bond Index returning 19 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The MSCI emerging-
market measure gained 15 percent in 2012, having lost 20 percent
a year earlier, the data show.  The Russian ruble, the Mexican peso and real estate in the
U.A.E. are among other investments Emirates NBD is suggesting to
clients, McFarland said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mahmoud Kassem in Abu Dhabi at 
 mkassem1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  