-- Merkel Seeks End to Corporate Tax Havens in Election Fight
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2013-02-14T14:37:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/merkel-seeks-to-shut-corporate-tax-havens-in-election-year-fight.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
called for an end to tax loopholes for multinational companies,
adopting an election-year theme that complements her efforts to
shield taxpayers from the fallout of the financial crisis.  Addressing a rally of her Christian Democratic Union party
yesterday near her constituency in northeastern Germany, Merkel
took up topics closer to the main opposition Social Democrats by
backing fair wages for low-income earners and criticizing “huge
speculation” in the U.S. as a trigger of Europe’s debt crisis.  “The world hasn’t learned the lesson the way we would have
wished,” Merkel, who is seeking a third term in elections on
Sept. 22, said to applause. “You can’t have huge global
companies do huge business in Europe, the U.S. and elsewhere,
and then pay taxes in some tax paradise. This must end, and I
will fight for that.” She said she will lobby other Group of
Eight leaders at their annual summit in the U.K. in June.  Merkel fleshed out her campaign rhetoric as voter support
for her Christian Democratic bloc matched the  highest level 
since she became chancellor in 2005.  Polls suggest Merkel’s popularity wasn’t dented by losing
Education and Research Minister  Annette Schavan , who quit on
Feb. 9 after her university revoked her doctorate.  Johanna Wanka , 61, a mathematician and CDU member who like Merkel hails
from eastern Germany, was sworn in as successor today at a
ceremony performed by President  Joachim Gauck .  ‘Profit Shifting’  Merkel’s push for debt reduction, budget austerity and
fixing state finances at home and throughout the 17-nation euro
area has led her party to focus on differences in corporate tax
regimes that she views as depriving governments of revenue.  Such “profit shifting” is “a serious risk to tax
revenues, tax sovereignty and tax fairness” to the detriment of
smaller companies, the Paris-based Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development said in a  report  dated Feb. 12.  Merkel’s speech, delivered at a sports complex in the town
of Demmin in Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania, was part of Ash
Wednesday rallies by German parties that included attacks on the
chancellor’s record by  Peer Steinbrueck , the Social Democratic
challenger who was her first-term finance minister.  While Merkel is Germany’s most popular politician, her
Christian Democrats may need to change coalition partners even
if they win the most votes in September, as polls suggest.  Poll Record  The Christian Democrats rose two percentage points to 43
percent in the Forsa poll released yesterday, equaling the all-
time high of her chancellorship reached four weeks ago. The Free
Democrats, Merkel’s junior coalition ally, declined one point to
3 percent, below the 5 percent threshold to win seats in
parliament. The Social Democrats, the biggest opposition party,
were unchanged at 25 percent, with their traditional Green Party
allies declining a point to 14 percent.  The Feb. 4-8 poll of 2,505 eligible voters for Stern
magazine and broadcaster RTL has a margin of error of as many as
2.5 percentage points.  Schavan, a CDU member who held the education post since
Merkel came to power, was stripped of her doctorate by Heinrich
Heine University in Dusseldorf on Feb. 5 after faculty leaders
concluded she “systematically” copied parts of her 1980
doctoral thesis in philosophy. Schavan said she will challenge
the decision.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  