-- EU Aviation Carbon Emissions to Decline in 2013, New Energy Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r   a n d   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-02-13T12:23:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/eu-aviation-carbon-emissions-to-decline-in-2013-new-energy-says.html
Greenhouse-gas emissions from
flights within Europe will probably fall this year as airlines
renew fleets with fuel-efficient aircraft and pack planes more
tightly, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Airlines’ carbon dioxide emissions within the European
Union probably fell 2 million metric tons, or 3 percent, last
year to 64 million tons,  Itamar Orlandi , a New Energy analyst in
London, said by e-mail. Emissions may decline another 1 million
tons this year as high oil prices curb demand, he said.  Flight activity in Europe probably fell 1.5 percent in
2012, Orlandi said. “Carbon efficiency gains from ongoing fleet
improvements are helping to reduce emissions further.”  EasyJet Plc’s load factor , a measure of occupancy, rose to
88.9 percent in 2012 from 87.5 percent a year earlier as
Europe’s second-largest budget airline boosted passenger numbers
to 59.2 million. Ryanair Holdings Plc, the top discount carrier,
said in January that it was grounding 80 planes until March amid
high oil prices and seasonally weaker demand.  Carriers including British Airways, EasyJet and Emirates
Airlines have been pushing plane makers Airbus SAS and Boeing
Co. to develop more efficient aircraft to trim jet kerosene
costs, one of the highest expenses for an airline.  Under the European Union’s emissions trading system,
airlines must hold a permit for each ton of carbon dioxide they
produce within the region. For flights covered by the program
last year, emissions were probably 15 million tons, or 31
percent, more than the 49 million tons of free carbon allowances
allocated to the aviation industry, Orlandi said.  The 27-nation EU was forced in November to back down on a
decision to include all flights in its carbon trading system
after opposition from countries including the U.S., China and
Russia.  EU carbon permits for December have plunged 28 percent this
year. They rose 5.5 percent today to 4.83 euros ($6.51) a ton on
the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net ;
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  