-- EU Carbon Rises to Most in Three Weeks Before Vote on Law Change
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a   a n d   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i
-- 2013-02-13T17:56:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/eu-carbon-rises-to-most-in-three-weeks-before-vote-on-law-change.html
European Union carbon permits rose
to a three-week high before a vote next week on a change to the
bloc’s emissions trading law that would allow a temporary
reduction in supply.  EU allowances for delivery in December rose as much as 15
percent to 5.26 euros a metric ton and closed at 5.23 euros on
London’s ICE Futures Europe exchange. That’s the highest since
Jan. 23. The contract extended this month’s gain to 53 percent.  ICE Futures Europe handled a record 44 million tons of
December carbon futures today. That’s the third-highest daily
volume for any front-year contract, according to ICE Futures
data on Bloomberg.  The EU rescue plan for the carbon market is increasingly
likely to win majority support from the European Parliament’s
environment committee in a vote on Feb. 19, Matthias Groote, the
lawmaker in charge of the measure in the assembly, said in an
interview last week. The proposal will also need approval by the
whole Parliament and member states in the next stages of the
legislative process.  Groote’s comments “triggered more optimism in the
market,”  Paolo Coghe , a senior European power, coal and carbon
analyst at  Societe Generale SA , said by phone from Paris today.
“It’s being reflected both in spot prices and in auction
results.”  The U.K. sold 4.1 million permits at 4.57 euros a ton at
auction on ICE Futures, 2 euro cents higher than the midpoint of
bids and offers for spot Phase 3 permits at 10 a.m., when the
sale ended, ICE data show. Five of the last six auctions have
cleared at prices above the prevailing spot rate, according to
 data  compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Significant Speculation’  “The uncertainty is easing a bit but we should remember
that there’s a significant element of speculation here as
well,” Coghe said.  Front-year futures prices have risen in four of the last
five sessions, which may reflect demand before the vote in the
EU assembly’s panel, according to  Milan Hudak , an analyst at
Virtuse Energy s.r.o. in Prague.  “Traders may be accumulating permits in the expectation
that the committee will approve the plan, which would be bullish
for carbon,” Hudak said today by e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;
Alessandro Vitelli in London at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  