-- EU Carbon Rises to Most in Almost Three Weeks on Auction Results
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i
-- 2013-02-13T13:05:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/eu-carbon-rises-to-most-in-almost-three-weeks-on-auction-results.html
European Union carbon permits rose
to their highest in almost three weeks as recent auctions for
the certificates settled at above-market prices before next
week’s vote on the bloc’s emissions trading law.  December EU allowance futures advanced as much as 6.1
percent to 4.86 euros ($6.56) a metric ton on London’s ICE
Futures Europe exchange. That’s the highest price since Jan. 24.
They were at 4.84 euros at 12:40 p.m.  The U.K. sold 4.1 million permits at 4.57 euros a ton at
auction on ICE Futures, 2 euro cents higher than the midpoint of
bids and offers for spot Phase 3 permits at 10 a.m., when the
sale ended, ICE  data  show. Five of the last six auctions have
cleared at prices  above the prevailing spot rate , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Front-year futures prices have risen in four of the last
five sessions, which may reflect demand before next week’s
European Parliament environment committee vote on a plan to
delay sales of carbon permits to boost prices, according to
 Milan Hudak , an analyst at Virtuse Energy s.r.o. in Prague.  “Traders may be accumulating permits in the expectation
that the committee will approve the plan, which would be bullish
for carbon,” Hudak said today by e-mail.  The EU rescue proposal for the carbon market is likely to
win support from the environment committee, Matthias Groote, the
lawmaker in charge of the measure in the assembly, said in an
interview last week.  The plan also needs approval by the whole parliament and
member states in the next stages of the legislative process.  United Nations Certified Emission Reductions for December
gained 1 euro cent to 34 cents a ton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandro Vitelli in London at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  