-- EU Soft-Wheat Area Seen Rising 3% on Increase in Poland, Romania
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-02-13T17:20:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/eu-soft-wheat-area-seen-rising-3-on-increase-in-poland-romania.html
European Union farmers will probably
increase the soft-wheat area for harvesting this year by 3
percent on increased planting in Poland and Romania, French crop
office FranceAgriMer said.  Soft wheat may be sown on 23.8 million hectares (58.8
million acres) from 23 million hectares in 2012, the crop office
wrote in documents handed out at a meeting in Montreuil-sous-
Bois, France, today.  Farmers in Poland, France and Germany last year plowed
under some of their wheat fields after frost damaged plants,
while Romanian producers suffered from drought. The EU grows
about a fifth of the world’s wheat.  “The persistently high prices on the global market since
June 2012 have incited the European farmers to favor sowing of
soft wheat,” FranceAgriMer wrote.  France’s soft-wheat area is expected to rise 2 percent,
German sowing may increase by 3 percent and farmers in Poland
and Romania will lift the area by 10 percent and 9 percent,
respectively, according to the crop office.  “The main producers, which are France and Germany, should
see their areas climb,” FranceAgriMer wrote. “Poland and
Romania are seeing major increases, but these figures have to be
put in perspective, with bad results in 2012-13 due to
unfavorable weather conditions.”  Spanish farmers will probably increase the country’s soft-
wheat area by 4 percent, while those in Italy may increase
planting by 11 percent, the figures show. Hungary’s soft-wheat
area is seen advancing 3 percent.  For the U.K., the EU’s third-largest grower, the planted
area is expected to fall 11 percent, sliding more than 200,000
hectares to 1.78 million hectares.  “In the U.K. the progress of planting is greatly hampered
by the abundant rains, particularly on the eastern part of the
country,” FranceAgriMer wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  