-- EU-Wide Meat Testing Proposed for Horse DNA, Bute
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-02-14T12:16:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/eu-wide-meat-testing-proposed-for-horse-dna-bute.html
European Union nations should test
thousands of processed beef products for horse meat to establish
the scale of a labeling scandal that has spread from Ireland to
Germany, and analyze slaughtered horses for the veterinary drug
phenylbutazone, the EU said.  Passing off horse meat as beef isn’t considered a food-
safety issue for now, and “we are now treating this as a
fraudulent misuse of the labeling system for economic gain,” EU
Health and Consumer Commissioner  Tonio Borg  told reporters after
a meeting of European ministers in Brussels yesterday.  Under Borg’s proposal, which he will present to an EU
committee on the food chain and animal health tomorrow and which
will need approval by the member states, countries in the bloc
should carry out 2,500 tests of processed beef products for
horse DNA in March and report by April 15. A further 4,000
samples of horse meat will be examined for phenylbutazone, also
known as bute, which can be harmful to humans.  Supermarkets in the U.K., Ireland, France, the Netherlands
and Germany have pulled tainted frozen beef burgers and lasagnas
from shelves and France has threatened sanctions for negligence
and fraud since the scandal erupted last month. Borg said the
criminal investigations will be coordinated by Europol.  Each test will cost about 400 euros ($538), with the
commission contributing half, the commissioner said.  Food Chain  “The problem is where in this chain in moving from one
country to another did this labeling occur,” Borg said. “The
mislabeling could have occurred in any country through which the
meat product physically passed.”  While the initial test run is earmarked for one month, the
testing should continue for three months, Borg said.  Each year, more than 200,000 horses are slaughtered for
meat in the EU, with close to half killed in Italy, followed by
Poland, Spain and France, according to Humane Society
International, an animal protection organization based in
Washington. The meat is also imported from Canada and Latin
America, it said.  Tesco Plc ,  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. ’s Asda and Aldi have
removed some ranges of frozen beef burgers from their shelves in
the past month as concern has escalated over tainted meat. A
line of lasagnas produced by Findus Group Ltd. was found to
contain more than 60 percent horse meat, and Tesco said Feb. 11
that tests found the same percentage of the meat in some
spaghetti Bolognese products.  Meat’s Origin  The ministers also agreed that a European Commission
recommendation on labeling the origin of all processed meat
should be accelerated and published “as soon as possible,”
U.K. Environment Minister  Owen Paterson  said after the meeting.  The U.K. proposed easing regulations on meat products and
their labeling before the recent scandal involving horse meat
discovered in beef products, a panel of lawmakers said.  In a report published today, Parliament’s Environment
Committee criticized proposals that minced meat in the U.K.
should be allowed higher fat and collagen content than is
allowed in other member states, and that labels for loose meat
products shouldn’t have to declare their meat content.  The Findus lasagnas were manufactured at a Luxembourg
factory owned by French company Comigel, France’s consumer and
anti-fraud office reported Feb. 9.  Bute Findings  The U.K.’s Food Standard Agency said today no bute was
found in Findus products containing horse meat. Still, of 206
horses that were slaughtered in the U.K. and checked between
Jan. 30 and Feb. 7, eight tested positive for the drug, and six
of those may have entered the food chain in France,  the FSA
said .  The drug poses a very low risk to human health, the U.K.
chief medical officer said in a statement. At the levels found, 
a person would have to eat 500 to 600 burgers a day made out of 
100 percent horse meat to consume close to a human's daily 
dose, Professor Sally Davies said.  Comigel’s supplier was Spanghero SAS, which had bought the
frozen meat from a Cypriot trader. The latter in turn sub-
contracted a Dutch trader who sourced the meat from a
slaughterhouse and a meat packer in Romania, according to the
French regulator.  Carrefour SA ,  Casino Guichard Perrachon SA  and four other
French supermarket chains withdrew frozen foods including
lasagna Bolognese. France plans to step up controls for
wholesalers and importers as well as in supermarkets.  In Germany, discounter Real yesterday withdrew its own-
brand lasagna after horse meat was found, while Kaiser
Tengelmann confirmed that its A&P brand frozen lasagna was made
by Comigel, Spiegel reported.  “It is becoming clear that this is an EU-wide problem that
needs an EU-wide solution,” Ireland’s Agriculture Minister
 Simon Coveney  said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  