-- European CMBS Servicers May Need ‘Fire Sales,’ Moody’s Says
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2013-02-13T00:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/european-cmbs-servicers-may-need-fire-sales-moody-s-says.html
European properties grouped into
commercial mortgage-backed securities may have to be unloaded in
“fire sales” to ensure holders recoup part of their investment
before the bonds mature, Moody’s Investors Service said.  Servicers resolving troubled loans will focus on repayment
before the maturity of the CMBS notes, analysts  Andrea Daniels 
and Oliver Moldenhauer wrote in a report. About 65 percent of
European CMBS loans maturing in the first nine months of last
year weren’t repaid on time and lending hasn’t improved this
year, according to the New York-based ratings company.  “Fire sales could be necessary to ensure that recovery
proceeds reach the noteholders before the maturity of the
notes,” the Moody’s analysts wrote. “The prevailing work-out
strategy pursued by relevant parties will continue to be to
avoid a fire sale of the properties, provided that cash flows
are sufficient to service outstanding debt.”  Subdued lending and a lack of demand for non-prime
properties will make it more difficult for CMBS servicers to
resolve troubled loans without selling assets, the analysts
said. The value of income-producing office buildings in Europe
rose 0.1 percent last year, according to broker  Jones Lang
LaSalle Inc.  Values fell 0.6 percent in the fourth quarter, the
Chicago-based company said.  CMBS pool cash flows from loans used to buy office
buildings, shopping malls, multifamily housing and warehouse
properties and package the payments into notes sold to
investors. From April 2010 through December 2012, 68 CMBS loans
were worked out by servicers and a quarter of the initial loan
balance wasn’t recovered, according to the report.  The number of European CMBS repaying loans will remain at
low levels through 2014, as weak economic growth delays a real
estate market recovery, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Neil Callanan  in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ross Larsen at 
 rlarsen2@bloomberg.net  