-- Euro-Area Industrial Production Increases More Than Forecast
-- B y   J o n e s   H a y d e n
-- 2013-02-13T10:48:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/euro-area-industrial-output-rises-more-than-economists-forecast.html
Euro-area industrial production
increased more than economists forecast in December, adding to
signs the economy may be gaining strength after slipping into a
recession last year.  Factory production in the 17-nation currency bloc rose 0.7
percent from November, when it declined a revised 0.7 percent,
the European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said today.
Economists had forecast a gain of 0.2 percent, according to the
median of 41 estimates in a  Bloomberg News  survey. December
output fell 2.4 percent from the year-earlier month.  Europe’s economy is struggling to regain momentum after the
sovereign-debt crisis pushed gross domestic product into a
contraction last year and drove unemployment to a record 11.7
percent. Amid signs EU leaders are making progress in tackling
the fiscal turmoil,  economic confidence  in the euro area has
risen to a seven-month high and  manufacturing output  contracted
less than estimated in January.  Still, the European Central Bank estimates the euro-area
economy will shrink 0.3 percent this year after a 0.5 percent
contraction in 2012. GDP probably declined 0.4 percent in the
final three months of last year after contractions in the
previous two quarters, according to the median of 45 economists’
forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey. The first estimate on
fourth-quarter GDP will be released tomorrow.  GDP Contraction  “Even with the increase in December, industrial production
still shrank by 3.2 percent in the fourth quarter,” said Peter
Vanden Houte, an economist at ING Group in Brussels. “This
figure is in line with a 0.4 percent GDP contraction” in the
final three months of 2012.  The euro was higher against the U.S. dollar after the data
and traded at $1.3486 at 11:45 a.m. in Brussels, up 0.2 percent
on the day.  Industrial output in Germany, Europe’s largest economy,
rose 0.8 percent in December after a 0.3 percent drop in
November, today’s report showed. Italy showed a 0.4 percent gain
in the latest month, while production in France and Spain
stagnated. Output in Ireland increased 8.5 percent.  Energy production fell 1.2 percent after a 1.3 percent drop
in November, according to today’s report. Output of durable and
non-durable consumer goods rose 2 percent, while capital-goods
production increased 1.3 percent.  The November decrease in industrial output from the prior
month was initially estimated at 0.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jones Hayden  in Brussels at 
 jhayden1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  