-- Ex-Bear Stearns Arm Said to Seek More Time to Invest Fund
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2013-02-13T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/ex-bear-stearns-arm-said-to-seek-more-time-to-invest-fund.html
Irving Place Capital, the former
private-equity unit of Bear Stearns Cos., is asking investors
for a two-year extension to deploy its 2006 buyout fund and will
delay raising a new one until it hands more cash back to
investors, according to two people familiar with the matter.  The $2.7 billion  Irving Place Capital Partners III LP ,
which has already received one extension, must stop investing
this month unless investors grant it permission to continue,
said the people, who asked not to be identified because the
plans are private. The fund had invested 78 percent of assets as
of Sept. 30, according to  data  from Oregon Public Employees
Retirement Fund.  Glen Gullickson, a spokesman at Brunswick Group, declined
to comment on behalf of New York-based Irving Place.  Buyout firms have sought more time to invest funds raised
during the buyout boom as the pace of deals plunged after the
2008 financial crisis. Firms raised $702 billion from 2006 to
2008, of which more than $100 billion must be deployed by the
end of this year, according to a report from Triago SA, a Paris-
based firm that helps private-equity firms raise money.  Private-equity funds typically invest over a five-year
period, and must seek permission from their limited partners to
continue investing if they don’t put all their capital to work
during that time. Irving Place’s 2006 fund, which is almost
double the size of the $1.5 billion  vehicle  it raised in 2000,
is past the 75 percent threshold most firms need to reach before
they start raising money for a successor fund.  Rag & Bone  The fund’s investments include Chromalox, a global
manufacturer of electric heating and control products, and a
minority stake in Rag & Bone, an apparel and accessories brand.  Fund III was generating a 1.04 times multiple and a 1.7
percent annual internal rate of return as of Sept. 30, according
to the Oregon data. The median IRR for funds of that year is
9.41 percent, according to data from Cambridge Associates.  Irving Place Capital typically invests $75 million to $250
million in companies with more than $20 million in earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or
Ebitda, according to the firm’s website. The firm targets
businesses in North America and Western Europe that are focused
on the retail, consumer, industrial and health-care sectors.
Irving Place became an independent firm after Bear Stearns was
acquired by JPMorgan Chase & Co. in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in New York at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  