-- Ex-Mercury Interactive Lawyer Skaer Must Face SEC Case
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-02-13T21:24:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/ex-mercury-interactive-lawyer-skaer-must-face-sec-case.html
Susan Skaer , former general counsel
of  Hewlett-Packard Co .’s Mercury Interactive unit, lost her bid
for dismissal of a U.S. lawsuit alleging she took part in a
scheme to improperly backdate stock options.  U.S. District Judge  William Alsup  in San Francisco denied
Skaer’s request to throw out U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission claims, according to a court filing today.  “A jury could reasonably find that attorney Skaer was a
knowing participant in a scheme by which defendants caused
Mercury to issue backdated stock options in violation of
Mercury’s internal stock options plans and without reporting
compensation expenses,” Alsup said. He also rejected her
arguments that the SEC waited too long to sue her.  The five-year-old lawsuit against Skaer and other former
Mercury executives alleges they changed dates on stock options
to make them more valuable, a practice among many technology
companies that led to a federal investigation, the ousters of 90
executives and directors, billions of dollars in restatements
and criminal charges against executives at 10 companies.  SEC attorneys say more than 40 stock option grants at
Mercury Interactive were backdated from 1997 to 2002, and $258
million in compensation expenses weren’t reported to investors
as a result, according to court documents.  James Kramer , an attorney for Skaer, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the ruling.  Two other former Mercury executives, ex-Chief Executive
Officer Amnon Landan and ex-Chief Financial Officer Douglas
Smith, settled with the SEC, according to court filings that
didn’t give details of the accords.  The case is SEC v. Landan, 07-2822, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  