-- Ex-Xinhua Finance CEO Pleads Guilty to U.S. Tax Charge
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-02-13T22:56:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/ex-xinhua-finance-ceo-pleads-guilty-to-u-s-tax-conspiracy-1-.html
Xinhua Finance Ltd.’s former chief
executive officer pleaded guilty to a single charge of
conspiring to obstruct the Internal Revenue Service, resolving
U.S. accusations that she joined a $50 million insider-trading
scheme.  Loretta Fredy Bush , 54, admitted today in federal court in
Washington that she and two other former Xinhua Finance board
members,  Shelly Singhal  and  Dennis Pelino , conspired to hide
more than $2.1 million in forgiven debt from the IRS so she
could avoid about $24,500 in taxes. She faces as much as five
years in prison when sentenced April 29.  “You are in fact guilty of this offense?” U.S. District
Judge  Royce Lamberth  asked Bush today.  “I am guilty,” Bush said.  The three defendants were indicted on May 10, 2011, for
allegedly using various entities to disguise the sale of shares
in Shanghai-based Xinhua Finance from the Securities and
Exchange Commission and investors, and to engage in insider
trading. They were also accused of manipulating the company’s
balance sheet to avoid taking so-called impairment charges.  Pelino and Singhal are scheduled to plead to the same
charge at later dates. As part of the plea agreements with the
three, prosecutors said they’ll drop charges of conspiracy, mail
fraud and making false statements.  Xinhua Finance, the first Chinese company listed on the
Tokyo stock exchange, provides information products focused on
Chinese and international financial markets.  Under the indictment, all three defendants faced four
charges of mail fraud, each of which carried a maximum penalty
of 20 years in prison. In 2011, the three pleaded not guilty to
the charges.  “Those charges, which alleged fraud, making false
statements and conspiracy involving Xinhua Finance Limited, will
be formally dismissed as to Ms. Bush at the time of sentencing,’
Bush’s lawyer, Charles Leeper of Drinker Biddle & Reath LLP,
said in an e-mailed statement.  He said today’s plea arose out of a personal loan to Bush
that was later forgiven, and the delay in payment of taxes on
the balance of that loan resulted in an underpayment to the IRS.  According to Bush’s plea agreement, the government won’t
seek to use the accusations in the 2011 indictment as a basis of
its sentencing recommendation. Under nonbinding U.S. guidelines,
the sentencing range for Bush is six months to a year in prison
and a fine of as much as $20,000.  The case is U.S. v. Singhal, 11-cr-00142, U.S. District
Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Schoenberg  in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 