-- Mexico Bond Yields Fall on Rate-Cut Speculation; Peso Advances
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-02-13T21:41:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/mexico-bond-yields-fall-before-carstens-comments-peso-advances.html
Yields on Mexico’s short-term bonds
touched record lows as the central bank said inflation will
remain in its target range, fueling speculation that policy
makers will reduce interest rates for the first time since 2009.  Yields on peso-denominated debt due in December fell two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 4.30 percent at 3:35
p.m. in Mexico City, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
It’s the lowest level on a closing basis since the bonds were
first issued in 2004. Mexico’s currency rose 0.1 percent to
12.6870 per U.S. dollar.  While inflation will pick up temporarily around the end of
the first quarter and the start of the second quarter of this
year, it won’t affect convergence toward the 3 percent target,
the central bank said in a report today. Governor  Agustin Carstens  said today in Mexico City that while policy makers
haven’t made any decisions on cutting the 4.5 percent benchmark
rate, they have noticed market bets for a reduction in borrowing
costs.  Yields on the bonds “declined on the expectation for a
rate cut,”  Roberto Ivan Garcia Castellanos , a fixed-income
trader at Casa de Bolsa Finamex SAB, said in a telephone
interview from Guadalajara, Mexico. “The central bank is giving
more certainty that it could do it.”  Consumer prices rose 3.25 percent in January from a year
earlier, the slowest pace since October 2011, according to data
released by the national statistics agency on Feb. 7.  Banco de Mexico has left the target lending rate unchanged
for a record 32 straight meetings.  On Jan. 18 the central bank signaled in a statement that
it’s willing to cut the rate if a “downward trend in general
and core inflation” is confirmed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  