-- MF Global Parent Answers JPMorgan Objections to Liquidation
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2013-02-13T00:11:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/mf-global-parent-answers-jpmorgan-objections-to-liquidation-1-.html
MF Global Holdings Ltd. ’s trustee
amended an information document to address objections of
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and other parties ahead of an April 5
hearing on a liquidation plan.  Trustee  Louis Freeh , unwinding the parent of the failed
brokerage formerly headed by Jon Corzine, joined a creditor
group including Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and Silver Point
Capital LP and proposed to distribute as much as 34 cents on the
dollar to unsecured claimholders. JPMorgan, which arranged a
$1.2 billion loan for the defunct holding company, said a change
in liability for the loan might bring creditors almost 60 cents
on the dollar.  An exhibit to a court filing today shows the New York-based
bank’s arguments were added to the information document, which
must be approved before a payment plan can be heard in court.  While customers of brokerage MF Global Inc. have received
almost all of their money back, Freeh hadn’t come up with a plan
to pay holding company creditors until after the group of banks
and hedge funds filed a rebel plan of their own on Jan. 10.
After joining them, Freeh negotiated a revised plan that cut the
payout and is pressing with them for court approval of the
amended information document and payment scheme.  ‘Plan Proponents’  “The plan proponents believe that the objections should be
overruled or considered at the confirmation hearing, if they are
not resolved prior to that hearing,” they said in the filing in
U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan. “The plan proponents fully
anticipate, however, that they have resolved the majority of the
issues raised by the objectors prior to the disclosure statement
hearing through the language added to the disclosure
statement.”  A hearing on the disclosure statement is set for Feb. 14.
The judge agreed to consider the liquidation plan April 5,
according to the filing.  JPMorgan, the biggest U.S. bank, faulted disclosure of
liability for part of the loan it arranged, saying that $928
million of the funds were counted twice, because the holding
company passed the money to its finance unit. The unit, as a
result, owed the money both to the holding company and to the
lenders, it said in a Feb. 7 filing. If the debt was only paid
once, creditors could recover almost twice as much, it said.  The group that filed the first liquidation plan said their
goal was “to facilitate the prompt and efficient conclusion of
the Chapter 11 cases.” Their members, including Blue Mountain
Timberline Ltd., Cyrus Capital Partners LP, Deutsche Bank
Securities Inc. and Waterstone Capital Management LP, hold about
65 percent of certain MF Global  loans and bonds , they said.  Fees, Expenses  Professional fees and expenses are eroding the assets left
for MF Global creditors, according to the group’s filings.
Bankruptcy lawyers and advisers have put in bills for $48.7
million, of which about $27.2 million was unpaid on Nov. 30.  MF Global filed the eighth-largest U.S. bankruptcy on Oct.
31, 2011, after getting margin calls and bank demands for money
following its investment in the debt of troubled European
economies. The company, which was headed by former New Jersey
Governor Corzine, listed assets of $41 billion and debt of $39.7
billion in its Chapter 11 filing.  Trustee  James Giddens  is separately liquidating the
brokerage.  The case is In re MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-15059, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  