-- Facebook Seeking Head of Diversity as Hiring Ramped UP
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-02-13T17:36:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/facebook-seeking-head-of-diversity-as-hiring-ramped-up.html
Facebook Inc. , operator of the
world’s largest social-networking service, is seeking a global
head of diversity, as the quickly expanding company’s recruits
people from different backgrounds to foster creativity.  The position includes responsibilities around employee
recruitment, development and retention, the company said on its
 website . The diversity chief will build and manage a team
focused on diversity, according to the posting.  Facebook, grappling with large rivals such as  Google Inc. 
is ramping up hiring, growing 44 percent to 4,619  employees  in
the fourth quarter from a year earlier. Chief Executive Officer
 Mark Zuckerberg  said last month the company plans to “continue
to grow our headcount quickly in 2013.”  “We’re a fast-growing company, and this role will help us
formalize processes that ensure we scale our diversity at the
same rate,” Slater Tow, a spokesman for Facebook, said in an e-
mailed statement. “In the past, our diversity and inclusion
efforts were decentralized amongst many employees and, given our
stage of growth, we are consolidating our work and people into
one team.”  Among Facebook’s efforts is a new search service the
company began to roll out last month. The company is also
bolstering its mobile offerings, including an upgrade to its
application for smartphones based on Google’s Android software.  While Facebook’s staff is growing quickly, it’s still much
smaller than some of its rivals. Google, for example, has more
than 10 times as many people.  The diversity position will be based at Facebook’s
headquarters in Menlo Park, California.  “We’ve always focused on recruiting the very best and
brightest,” Tow said. “We are big believers that creativity
happens with people who have different perspectives and
background.”  -- Editors: Reed Stevenson, Lisa Rapaport  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  