-- Fed’s Lacker Says Crisis in 2007 Worsened by Rescue Policy
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2013-02-13T03:50:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/fed-s-lacker-says-crisis-in-2007-worsened-by-rescue-policy.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
President  Jeffrey Lacker  said the financial system was weakened
further as it began to fall into crisis in 2007 and 2008 by an
“ambiguous rescue policy.”  The Richmond Fed president has been one of the biggest
critics of an expanded safety net which he says reduces market
discipline and creates more risk by raising expectations of
bailouts. The Fed used multiple tools to aid financial
institutions during the crisis, including opening a funding
facility for corporate commercial paper and offering direct
support for the Bear Stearns Cos. and American International
Group Inc.  Richmond Fed researchers estimate that as of December 31,
2011, that 57 percent of financial sector liabilities benefit
from perceived government support, up from 45 percent over a
decade ago.  “It seems quite plausible to me that the signal sent by
the Fed’s lending actions in August 2007 dampened the
willingness of troubled institutions, such as Bear Stearns and
Lehman Brothers, to seek safer solutions to the strains they
were facing -- whether by raising capital, selling assets or
reducing reliance on short-term funding,” Lacker said in a
speech at his alma mater, Franklin & Marshall College in
Lancaster, Pennsylvania.  Government Support  Lacker said perceptions of government support had built
over decades which may have underpinned the dependence of
investment banks such as Bear Stearns on low-cost short-term
funding such as repurchase agreements.  “When Bear lost funding in mid-March, the critical fear
was that without government support, investors would pull away
from other investment banks as well,” Lacker said. “Backstop
lending was thus necessitated by expectations of backstop
lending.”  Lacker, responding to reporters’ questions after the
speech, said evidence of a credit market bubble arising from the
Fed’s current policy of holding long-term interest rates low
with asset purchases is “ambiguous and inconclusive.” Lacker
also indicated that he didn’t favor using monetary policy to
attack speculative excesses in financial markets.  “We should be really cautious and humble about coming to
conclusions about credit markets being out of adjustment,” he
said.  December Dissent  Lacker was a Federal Open Market Committee voting member
last year and dissented against both parts of the Fed’s stimulus
program in December.  At that meeting, and again in January, Fed officials said
they will hold the benchmark lending rate near zero until
inflation is forecast to rise to more than a 2.5 percent annual
rate and so long as the  unemployment rate  remains above 6.5
percent. U.S. central bankers also expanded quantitative easing,
adding $45 billion in Treasury purchases to their program of $40
billion in monthly MBS purchases.  Lacker viewed the asset purchases as “unlikely to add to
economic growth without unacceptably increasing the risk of
future inflation,” minutes from the meeting said. He was
concerned that linking the federal funds rate to indicators on
jobs and prices “would inhibit the effectiveness of the
Committee’s communications and increase the potential for
inflationary policy errors.”  The unemployment rate rose to 7.9 percent last month, and
the 12-month rate of inflation fell to 1.3 percent in December
pushing the economy further away from the Fed’s objectives of
stable prices and maximum employment.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Craig Torres  in
Washington at   ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Christopher
Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  