-- FHA Might Avoid Taxpayer Subsidy This Year, Galante Says
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2013-02-13T19:12:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/fha-might-avoid-taxpayer-subsidy-this-year-galante-says.html
The head of the U.S. Federal Housing
Administration downplayed a coming budget estimate that is
expected to show the agency will need taxpayer aid for the first
time since it was founded in the 1930s.  FHA could avoid taking Treasury aid even if the budget
President  Barack Obama  releases next month shows it has a
shortfall, FHA Commissioner  Carol Galante  said at a hearing of
the House Financial Services Committee today. The committee’s
chairman, Texas Republican  Jeb Hensarling , questioned Galante’s
numbers, and said the agency is “flat broke.”  FHA will take additional steps this year to avoid
foreclosures on loans that have defaulted and raise the fees it
charges borrowers to insure their loans against default, Galante
said. Those and other measures could be enough to offset any
shortfall the budget shows, she said. FHA has until Sept. 30 to
determine whether it needs aid.  “The ultimate need will be borne out in the actual
performance of the FHA single-family program over the course of
the fiscal year, and will be impacted by the steps FHA takes
over the course of the year to increase revenue or reduce
losses,” Galante said.  An independent actuary said in November that FHA could need
a subsidy of as much as $16.3 billion due to defaults on loans
it insured as the housing market crashed. The agency is required
to keep enough funds on hand to cover all projected future
losses. The president’s budget will contain an updated estimate.  Additional Scrutiny  The Republican-led House is ramping up scrutiny of the
government-run mortgage insurer. The $1.1 trillion worth of home
loans insured by FHA represent 15 percent of the U.S. mortgage
market, almost quadruple the 4-percent share of mortgages it
covered in 2007.  Lawmakers from both parties have been anticipating the
budget estimate for FHA as they gauge whether they should step
in with legislation that would shrink the agency’s market share
and shore up its bottom line.  “The FHA is broke. The FHA is flat broke and I fear soon
the FHA will prove to be bailout broke,” Hensarling said at the
hearing.  Galante said the administration has already made “the most
sweeping changes to policy in FHA’s nearly 80-year history” to
improve the agency’s financial situation. It is due to those
reforms, she said, that the agency hasn’t needed to take
taxpayer aid before this year.  ‘Poor Earnings’  The committee has been told that “FHA is in the course of
a recovery, indeed healthier but in fact it is not,” said
Representative  Randy Neugebauer , a Republican from Texas. “If
the CEO of a major company kept telling its shareholders that
things are getting better and keep having poor earnings, that
CEO would be removed.”  “I wonder how we’ve been misled in Congress,” said
Representative  Sean Duffy , a Republican from Wisconsin, who
broadened his criticism to include the Department of Housing and
Urban Development, which oversees FHA. “You and HUD have been
negligent, incompetent.”  Democrats defended the FHA’s role and said it was vital to
the recovery from the 2008 housing crisis, when Congress granted
it authority to insure higher-cost loans. That authority ends at
the end of this year. FHA backs 56.4 percent of the mortgage
insurance market, according to HUD.  “We must recognize the tremendous value that FHA has
contributed to our economy, particularly since the financial
crisis,” ranking member  Maxine Waters , a Democrat from
California, said. “And we must be cautious about moving too
precipitously to constrain FHA‘s role,’’ she said.  First Appearance  Galante, testifying before Congress for the first time
since she was confirmed to her post in December, urged lawmakers
to move forward with a bill that passed the House with
bipartisan support last year but didn’t get through the Senate.
That measure would have given FHA more authority to weed out bad
actors among the lenders who issue loans it insures, among other
things. Galante dismissed further premium changes.  ‘‘We’ve raised premiums five times, and we think that is
the right place for the pricing of the risk of the new loans
we’re taking on,” Galante said.  Republicans say they want to go further, perhaps changing
the agency’s accounting methods and requiring higher down
payments on FHA-insured loans. The agency currently insures
mortgages with down payments as low as 3.5 percent for certain
borrowers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  