-- Fidessa Surges as Money Flows Into Equity Trading: London Mover
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-02-13T17:11:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/fidessa-surges-as-money-flows-into-equity-trading-london-mover.html
Fidessa Group Plc , a U.K. software
developer for financial trading systems, rose the most in more
than three years as increased equity trading boosts prospects of
revenue growth next year.  The  shares  gained 8.8 percent, the biggest gain since June
2010, to 1,800 pence, the highest close in 18 months. Fidessa
had the second-biggest advance on the FTSE All-Share Index.  Flat revenue and profit last year masked consolidation,
restructuring and closures in its customer base that knocked 7
percentage points off growth, the London-based company said two
days ago as it reported earnings. Chief Executive Officer  Chris Aspinwall  said that sentiment in the equity markets is now the
best he has seen in five years.  “There has been a marked and positive change of sentiment
in the market, with the weekly flow of funds into the equity
markets reaching one of the highest levels ever recorded,” the
CEO said in the earnings statement. “A floor will eventually be
reached in the decline of equity markets which will allow our
core end markets to gradually return to a more stable state.”  Stock turnover in Europe is increasing this year. The 50-
day moving average of trading volumes on the Stoxx 600 Index
moved above the 200-day  moving average  for the first time since
July on Jan. 31, an event known as a “golden cross.”  Fidessa’s earnings results and outlook prompted  Julian Yates , an analyst at Investec Plc, to raise his recommendation
on the stock to buy from sell and to boost his 12-month price
prediction to 1,850 pence from 1,110 pence.  Six Buys  Andrew Darley , an analyst at FinnCap Ltd., raised his
recommendation to buy from hold and increased his price target
42 percent to 1,900 pence. Six analysts now  rate  the stock buy,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, while six have a hold
recommendation and two say investors should sell.  The stock has gained 18 percent since Aspinwall’s comments,
for the best three-day advance in four years. Even so, the
improved sentiment has probably come too late to affect revenue
this year, the CEO said.  Fidessa, whose clients include  Citigroup Inc.  and  State
Street Corp. , has almost half its business in Europe, where
global investment banks are cutting the most jobs. It gained
business last year in Latin America and Asia, while North
American revenue was virtually unchanged.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Woodifield  in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net  