-- Fidelity Sees Japan Investing Program Reaching 2020 Target
-- B y   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i
-- 2013-02-13T07:51:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/fidelity-sees-japan-investing-program-reaching-268-billion-goal.html
A Japanese program that will provide
tax breaks to spur people to buy stocks may achieve the
government’s targeted 25 trillion yen ($268 billion) in
investments by 2020, a Fidelity Japan researcher said.  The tax-free Individual Savings Account initiative, which
is set to start in 2014, can grow by more than 3 trillion yen a
year over the next seven years,  Satoshi Nojiri , head of  Fidelity
Investor Education Institute  in Tokyo, said in an interview.  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s government last month approved
the plan, which was first proposed under the previous
administration. Japanese policy makers are seeking to encourage
households to move assets from cash to equities to fund growing
industries and spur the world’s third-largest economy.  Under the 10-year program, modeled on a financial product
created in the U.K., people will be allowed to invest as much as
1 million yen a year in  stocks  and investment trusts without
paying tax on returns. Abe extended the term of the plan from
the original three years sought by his predecessor’s government.  “Our calculation is based on the assumption that about
half of the 25 trillion yen comes from new investments,” and
the rest from existing investments moving to the account, said
Nojiri, 53. His institute has ties with Boston-based Fidelity
Investments, the second-biggest U.S. mutual-fund manager.  The 25 trillion yen amount is equivalent to 7.5 percent of
the  market value  of the Tokyo Stock Exchange’s first section.  Stock Rally  While the  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  has gained 30 percent
since Nov. 14, when Abe began an election campaign by urging
more aggressive monetary easing, it remains 71 percent below its
1989 peak. The gauge fell 1 percent today.  Japanese have been reluctant to invest in equities since
the collapse of an asset bubble more than 20 years ago caused
stocks to plunge and ushered in an era of  deflation  that
increased the incentive to save. More than half of households’
1,510 trillion yen of  financial assets  were in cash as of Sept.
30 and about 6 percent in equities, central bank figures show.  Still, the stock rebound since November is luring
individual investors. Retail investors made up 33 percent of
equity turnover in the final week of January, up from a weekly
average of 21 percent last year before the rally.  The government should consider making the Individual
Savings Account permanent and allowing investors to switch from
one security to another to attract beginners, Nojiri said in the
Feb. 4 interview.  “The key to the Japanese ISA’s success is figuring out how
to raise people’s motivations to invest,” he said. It’s
necessary to dispel the myth that the Japanese pension system is
stable and raise awareness of the need for individuals to manage
their assets to prepare for retirement, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takako Taniguchi in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  