-- Finmeccanica Promotes Pansa to CEO After Orsi’s Arrest
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-02-14T13:52:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/finmeccanica-says-coo-pansa-promoted-to-ceo-after-orsi-charged.html
Finmeccanica SpA , Italy’s biggest
defense contractor, promoted  Alessandro Pansa  to chief executive
officer to succeed  Giuseppe Orsi , who was arrested two days ago
on charges of corruption and tax fraud.  Pansa, 50, will continue to serve as chief operating
officer, Rome-based Finmeccanica said yesterday in a statement
following a board meeting. Orsi, 67, remains chairman until a
shareholders meeting in April, a spokeswoman said by telephone.  Finmeccanica is moving to reassure shareholders after the
stock slumped as much as 14 percent on Feb. 12, the day Orsi was
arrested. The company, which has lost more than  half  of its
market value since Orsi took the CEO post in May 2011, said Feb.
12 that it remains “fully operational” amid an Italian probe
of allegations of illegal payments tied to a 560 million-euro
($753 million) contract with India for helicopters in 2010.  Pansa had previously served as chief financial officer
before becoming chief operating officer. His appointment is
permanent, according to the company.  “His appointment should make a strong strategic
discontinuity less likely,”  Gabriele Gambarova , an analyst at
Banca Akros, said in a note to clients. “Pansa makes the
investment case less risky, but the judicial investigations may
trigger bad consequences.”  Orsi was praised today by former Italian Prime Minister
 Silvio Berlusconi , who said managers must make bribes in order
to do business in some parts of the world. Italian prosecutors
were wrong to arrest Orsi, Berlusconi said today in a televised
interview on state broadcaster RAI3.  ‘Absurd Moralisms’  “These are absurd moralisms,” Berlusconi said. “If you
want to make moralisms like that, you can’t be an entrepreneur
on a global scale.”  Finmeccanica said it plans to convene a shareholder meeting
on April 2 to appoint a new  board . While Orsi formally retains
the title of chairman, Pansa has effectively been given those
powers because only the shareholders have the authority to strip
Orsi of that position.  Pansa will now be charged with guiding Finmeccanica through
its biggest  reorganization  in at least a decade as it seeks to
dispose of 1 billion euros in assets to reduce debt exceeding 4
billion euros. The manufacturer has been pushing to sell its
Ansaldo Energia power-plant construction unit, with the goal of
announcing a buyer before Italian elections begin on Feb. 24.  Stock Falls  Finmeccanica  fell  a third consecutive day, dropping as much
as 2.3 percent and trading down 1.1 percent at 4.19 euros as of
2:48 p.m. in Milan, valuing the company at 2.4 billion euros.  The company’s Milan offices, Orsi’s house and premises of
the AgustaWestland helicopter subsidiary in Italy were searched
this week, two people familiar with the probe said. They asked
not to be identified because the investigation is continuing.  The Indian Defense Ministry has asked the country’s Central
Bureau of Investigation to probe the charges, saying it “is
determined to take all possible legal and administrative action
against guilty parties.”  The contract signed with AgustaWestland includes “specific
contractual provisions against bribery and the use of undue
influence as well as an integrity pact,” the ministry said on
Feb. 12. It also has asked AgustaWestland to provide information
on whether payments were made that violated existing rules.  India has frozen payments to AgustaWestland, the Defense
Ministry said today in a statement. Three of 12 AW101
helicopters that India ordered in 2010 have already been
delivered. Orsi led the AgustaWestland at the time the contract
was awarded.  Orsi’s lawyer,  Ennio Amodio , said in a Feb. 12 statement
yesterday that evidence against his client is “inconsistent”
and that the arrest is “unjustified.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrea Snyder at 
 asnyder5@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  