-- Fischer Quit After Verifying New Central Bank Law Worked
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2013-02-13T14:56:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/fischer-quit-after-verifying-new-central-bank-law-worked.html
Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer  said he decided to step down after confirming the
monetary policy committee set up under a new central bank law
was functioning properly.  Fischer, 69, announced on Jan. 29 his plan to quit at the
end of June. Zambian-born Fischer took the helm in 2005 after
earlier jobs as No. 2 at the International Monetary Fund and
vice chairman at  Citigroup Inc.   “What I said to myself is, until I know that the new Bank
of Israel law is working, I’m going to stay,” Fischer said at a
briefing for the foreign press in Jerusalem today. “I think the
Bank of Israel law is working. I think the monetary policy
decisions are being made in a better framework than they were
some time ago.”  Asked whether he would be interested in becoming head of
the U.S. Federal Reserve, Fischer replied: “I was told when I
was 25 never to accept an offer I hadn’t been given, and I’m not
commenting on that.”  A former economics professor at the Massachusetts Institute
of Technology, Fischer was Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s thesis adviser. From 1988 to 1990, he was chief
economist at the Washington-based World Bank. At the IMF in the
1990s, he worked to resolve financial crises in Mexico, Russia
and Southeast Asia. He was vice chairman of Citigroup from 2002
to 2005.  Personal Reasons  Asked whether he had been offered the finance portfolio in
Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ’s government, Fischer said:
“There’s a rumor to that effect. I don’t like to talk about
one-on-one conversations.”  Fischer said on Jan. 30 he decided to step down for
personal reasons, mostly because his family is in the U.S. and
he’s achieved most of the goals he had set out to accomplish.  Fischer toyed previously with the idea of leaving the bank
before his term ended in 2015. He put himself forward as a
candidate for the leadership of the IMF in 2011. He was
disqualified as he was older that the organization’s age limit
of 65, and the position went to France’s  Christine Lagarde .  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  was also
taught by Fischer at MIT in Cambridge, Massachusetts. Bank of
England Governor  Mervyn King  said on Jan. 29 he has the
“highest admiration” for Fischer and called his resignation
“a loss to the central banking community.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  