-- Fischer Says Israel Must ‘Watch’ Foreign Inflows
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2013-02-14T06:52:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/fischer-says-israel-must-watch-foreign-inflows.html
(Corrects interest rate in major economies in last
paragraph of story published Feb. 13.)  Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer  said the central bank is “going to have to watch”
foreign inflows that have come about as monetary policies in
other countries become more expansionary.  “The exchange rate has been appreciating as other
countries made their monetary policies more and more
expansionary and more money started coming into Israel to take
advantage of the small differential in  interest rates ,” Fischer
said at a briefing for journalists in Jerusalem. “You get about
2 percent more by putting your money in Israel. That’s something
we are going to have to watch.”  Quantitative easing in U.S., Europe, and Japan supports the
strengthening of the shekel, which hit a 15-month high against
the dollar on Feb. 1, the Bank of Israel said in minutes of its
last rate-setting meeting, released this week. The start of
production from offshore natural gas reservoirs, expected this
year, will also support shekel appreciation, it said. The shekel
was trading at 3.687 against the dollar at 1:38 p.m. in Tel
Aviv.  Fischer on Feb. 7 praised the Swiss National Bank for
foreign-currency market intervention as pressure mounts from
Israeli manufacturers to intervene to stabilize the shekel-
dollar exchange rate. “You can fight the market, if the market
wants your currency to appreciate,” Fischer said at a
conference in Prague.  The Bank of Israel held its benchmark interest rate at 1.75
percent in its last decision at the end of month, its lowest in
more than two years. Interest rates in the major global
economies are about zero, Fischer said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  