-- Former SNS Property Board Member Groenhof Said to Be Arrested
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2013-02-13T16:37:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/former-sns-property-board-member-groenhof-said-to-be-arrested.html
Buck Groenhof , former board member
at  SNS Reaal NV ’s failed property unit, and an assistant were
arrested by Dutch prosecutors for possible bribery, fraud and
money laundering, said two people familiar with the matter, who
asked not to be identified because they’re not authorized to
speak publicly.  The Dutch Fiscal Information and Investigation Service
searched the homes and an office of two suspects that were
arrested yesterday, the Dutch Public Prosecutor said in a
statement on its website today. Esther Schreur, spokeswoman for
the prosecutors’ office in The Hague, declined to identify them.  Groenhof didn’t respond to an e-mail and voice-mail to his
mobile phone and his lawyer Jerry Hoff couldn’t immediately be
reached for comment. Groenhof resigned from the board of SNS
Property Finance on Oct. 1, the company said in November.  The Dutch government took control of SNS Reaal on Feb. 1
after losses brought the company to the brink of collapse. The
state will inject 2.2 billion euros of capital, write down 800
million euros on an earlier aid package and use 700 million
euros to put the real estate portfolio at arm’s length.  Dutch newspapers including NRC Handelsblad reported
Groenhof’s arrest earlier today.  The two suspects can be held in custody for three days and
prosecutors may ask for an extension, Schreur said.  SNS Reaal said it filed charges against a former board
member of its property finance unit after an internal probe into
possible conflicts of interest initiated last year. It didn’t
identify the ex-employee. Several externally-hired people were
suspended, the Utrecht, Netherlands-based firm said in a
statement today.  In November, the company denied a newspaper report that
Groenhof allegedly used the bank for personal benefit, saying an
internal probe found there were no grounds for the allegations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  