-- Fracking Threatens OPEC as U.S. Output at 20-Year High
-- B y   A s j y l y n   L o d e r
-- 2013-02-13T20:12:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/fracking-threatens-opec-as-u-s-output-at-20-year-high.html
A surge in oil production has pushed
U.S. output to the highest level since 1992, a trend expected to
further reduce the nation’s reliance on the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries.  The world’s largest crude consumer has cut net petroleum
imports from  OPEC  by 37 percent from the January 2008 record of
6.371 million barrels a day, according to the Energy Information
Administration. Rising domestic output combined with increasing
Canadian crude will further cut imports from the 12 OPEC
countries by the end of 2014, according to a report today from
Citigroup Inc.  Improvements in horizontal drilling and hydraulic
fracturing, or fracking, have spurred drilling in states such as
Texas, North Dakota and Oklahoma. The U.S.  pumped  7.06 million
barrels a day in the week ended Feb. 8, up 1 percent from the
previous week and extending last year’s 19 percent gain, the EIA
said today.  “Increasing amounts of North American oil production puts
pressure on OPEC to find other markets for their oil,”  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston, said by
phone today. “It changes the political dynamics between the
U.S. and OPEC.”  Refining Advantage  Rising U.S. production has helped keep domestic prices
pegged to the West Texas Intermediate futures contract cheaper
than London-traded Brent, giving U.S. refiners an advantage and
making the country the world’s largest exporter of refined
petroleum products like gasoline and diesel.  The discount of WTI to Brent, which expanded to $23.18 a
barrel on Feb. 8, settled at $21.71 today. The U.S. benchmark
for March delivery dropped 50 cents to $97.01 a barrel on the
New York Mercantile Exchange. March Brent futures, which price
more than half of the world’s oil, rose 6 cents to $118.72 on
London’s ICE Futures Europe exchange.  U.S. crude  imports  have fallen 5.9 percent this year after
a 21 percent decline last year, according to data from the EIA,
the statistical arm of the Energy Department. The U.S. met 84
percent of its energy needs in the first 10 months of last year,
on pace to reach the highest annual rate of self-sufficiency
since 1991.  Trade Deficit  Record petroleum exports helped shrink the U.S. trade
deficit in December to the smallest in almost three years. The
gap narrowed 20.7 percent to $38.5 billion, the least since
January 2010, the Commerce Department said Feb. 8 in Washington.
The U.S. imported 223 million barrels of crude oil, the least
since February 1997.  Increased output from Canada and Mexico will accelerate the
trend toward North American energy independence, according to
the Citigroup report. By the middle of this year, the U.S. Gulf
Coast will no longer import light, sweet crude, replacing it
with domestic supplies. By the end of 2014, sour Canadian crude
will displace shipments from Saudi Arabia, Iraq, Kuwait, Mexico
and Venezuela.  “OPEC should find it challenging to survive another 60
years, let alone another decade,” analysts led by  Ed Morse ,
global head of commodities research at Citigroup Inc. in New
York, said in the report. “The U.S. should see its role in the
world as a singular superpower enhanced and prolonged.”  OPEC production fell to the lowest level in a year in
January, the Paris-based  International Energy Agency  said today
in its monthly report. Saudi Arabia, OPEC’s largest producer,
reduced output in December because customers asked for less,
 Ibrahim al-Muhanna , an adviser to Saudi Arabian Oil Minister  Ali al-Naimi , said Jan. 14.  OPEC pumped 30.34 million barrels a day in January, down
100,000 barrels from December, the IEA said today. The agency
said Saudi Arabia produced 9.25 million barrels a day, up from
9.15 million in December.  January OPEC production dropped to a 15-month low in a
Bloomberg survey of oil companies, producers and analysts
because of a 100,000 barrels a day drop in Saudi output.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Asjylyn Loder in New York at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 