-- FSA Review Finds a Quarter of Bank Customers Got Bad Advice
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-02-13T11:08:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/fsa-review-finds-a-quarter-of-bank-customers-got-bad-advice.html
Banks gave inadequate investment
advice to a quarter of customers in “mystery shopper” tests,
the U.K. Financial Services Authority said.  The FSA referred   Banco Santander SA  to its enforcement
division for investigation into the quality of advice it gave in
the mystery-shopper tests.  Santander will “review how it can offer advice to its
customers in the future for their benefit and provide access to
appropriate investment products,” according to an e-mailed
statement from the Madrid-based bank.  U.K. banks including  Barclays Plc ,  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc  and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc  have had to set aside
more than 10 billion pounds ($15.6 billion) to pay back
customers wrongly sold insurance on personal loans. A probe by
the FSA into improperly sold interest rate derivatives may lead
to another 5 billion pounds being paid in compensation to small
businesses.  The regulator sent people, who didn’t identify themselves
as being there for the FSA, out to invest at six U.K. banks.
Employees gave them unsuitable advice 11 percent of the time,
the agency said in a statement. Advisers didn’t gather enough
information in 15 percent of visits.  Reuters reported that Santander was the bank referred for
the probe. Sarah Bailey, a spokeswoman for the FSA, declined to
comment.  The regulator sent people, who didn’t identify themselves
as being there for the FSA, out to invest at six U.K. banks.
Employees gave them unsuitable advice 11 percent of the time,
the agency said in a statement. Advisers didn’t gather enough
information in 15 percent of visits.  “This review shows that customers are not consistently
getting the quality of advice on their investments that they
should expect when visiting an adviser in a bank or building
society,” said FSA director of supervision Clive Adamson.  Inappropriate Risk  The FSA considered the advice given the mystery shoppers to
be poor due primarily to inappropriate levels of risk, failure
to consider customers’ circumstances and the length of time they
wanted to hold an investment, according to the statement. This
was the first time since 2008 that the regulator has done a
mystery shopper test.  The British Bankers’ Association said while the majority of
customers received good advice, more could be done.  “This exercise took place last year before the industry
implemented new FSA rules which mean advisers are now better
trained and are not paid commission for making sales,” the BBA
said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  