-- Fund Manager Fortuna Gets Probation After Aiding U.S.
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-02-14T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/fund-manager-fortuna-gets-probation-after-aiding-u-s-.html
Steven Fortuna , a hedge-fund manager
who pleaded guilty and assisted in the insider-trading probe of
Galleon Group LLC and other federal investigations, was
sentenced to two years’ probation and six months’ home
confinement.  U.S. District Judge  Sidney Stein  in Manhattan, who presided
over the case, also ordered Fortuna to speak to graduate
business students at Columbia University and undergraduates at
 Boston University , where he obtained his degrees.  “To the extent possible, Mr. Fortuna can speak at his
college and school of business and other institutions about his
own situation and how easily it is for him and others to have
committed this crime and the difficulties he’s encountered as a
result,” Stein said yesterday as he imposed the sentence.  Federal prosecutors filed papers last week seeking leniency
for Fortuna, the co-founder and former managing director at S2
Capital LLC in Boston, saying he “immediately” agreed to
cooperate with the U.S. when FBI agents first approached him on
April 1, 2009. Fortuna pleaded guilty to federal insider-trading
charges in October 2009.  “I made a grievous mistake, I chose to act on inside
information I received when I should not have; now everything I
worked for has been destroyed,” Fortuna, 50, told Stein before
being sentenced. “I ask your honor to please consider the
grievous mistake as aberrational in what I like to think is
otherwise an honorable life.”  Intended Sentence  Stein said yesterday he arrived in court intending to
impose some kind of term of imprisonment upon Fortuna for
breaking securities laws and engaging in insider trading. The
judge, who said Fortuna had faced 37 to 46 months in prison,
questioned the extent of Fortuna’s cooperation with the U.S.
probe. The judge also questioned an assertion made by Fortuna’s
lawyer, Francis Dimento, that his client was destitute.  Assistant U.S. Attorney  Antonia Apps  told Stein that
Fortuna made more than 400 recordings of conversations with six
friends and colleagues targeted in the crackdown on insider
trading at hedge funds.  Apps said Fortuna also wore a concealed body wire and
recorded conversations with targets of the investigation at the
behest of Federal Bureau of Investigation agents.  She said he also told investigators and prosecutors about
crimes they didn’t know he had committed.  400 Calls  “The number is significant, there were more than 400 calls
and also meetings where he wore a body wire,” Apps said. “This
is a serious crime, no question about it. But without
cooperating witnesses, there are cases that we cannot bring.”  Fortuna’s cooperation helped lead to the guilty plea by
 Danielle Chiesi , a former New Castle Partners portfolio manager,
Apps said. Chiesi was sentenced to 30 months in prison after
admitting she passed illegal tips to Fortuna and Galleon co-
founder  Raj Rajaratnam , among others.  His information also helped prosecutors win a guilty plea
from  Robert Moffat , a former  International Business Machines
Corp.  executive, Apps said. Moffat admitted he passed tips about
IBM and other companies to Chiesi, with whom he was having an
affair. He was sentenced to six months in prison.  Continuing Probes  Apps said Fortuna’s cooperation with the government
continues in insider-trading investigations, the details of
which were redacted from the public version of her letter.  Dimento told Stein that prosecutors had described Fortuna’s
work as “extraordinary” and said he has also continued to
cooperate with the U.S. by speaking to FBI agents, describing to
them how the hedge fund industry works.  “No I don’t think it is,” Stein said. “I think it’s
solid, but it’s not extraordinary.”  The judge questioned Dimento’s claim that Fortuna was
“living from hand to mouth,” noting that court officials said
in a presentence report that the defendant had a house in
Westwood, Massachusetts, a summer home in Lenox, Massachusetts,
an art collection, and five cars, including a Maserati, two
Porsches, a BMW and a Mercedes Benz.  “You can’t make out an argument that the man is
destitute,” Stein said.  While the judge didn’t impose a fine on Fortuna, Stein did
order him to perform 120 hours of community service during each
of the two years he is on probation. Stein directed that Fortuna
speak publicly about insider trading at his two alma maters and
any others suggested by the government or court officials.  Business, Family  “Mr. Stein, I really think you certainly understand the
seriousness of your crime,” Stein said. “I don’t think I need
to be concerned about your individual deterrence and committing
other crimes. Just stay away from the securities industry, stay
away from any illegal activity. Focus on your business and your
family and you’ll be alright.”  Fortuna admitted to three counts of conspiracy, each with a
maximum possible penalty of five years in prison, and one count
of securities fraud, which carries a maximum prison sentence of
20 years.  When Fortuna pleaded guilty, he said he was tipped to
inside information by “several individuals” at other funds,
according to a court transcript. He didn’t identify the tipsters
in court.  Fortuna told Stein he is attempting to start a beverage
business in the Boston area.  More than 70 people have been charged and convicted with
insider trading since August 2009 as part of a nationwide
crackdown by the Federal Bureau of Investigation in New York and
the office of U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara  in Manhattan. Fortuna
is one of 22 people who pleaded guilty in the Galleon probe.  The case is U.S. v. Fortuna, 09-cr-1003, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  