-- G-7 Ministers Agree Exchange Rates Market-Driven, Official Says
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-02-13T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/g-7-ministers-agree-exchange-rates-market-driven-official-says.html
All Group of Seven finance ministers
accept that foreign exchange rates are set by markets and are
not policy goals to be addressed by political leaders, a German
government official said.  There was no disagreement among the finance ministers nor
at working level that the market’s primacy in determining
exchange rates was the core message of the G-7 statement
released by the U.K. yesterday, the official told reporters in
Berlin today on condition of anonymity because the negotiations
were held in private.  The wording of yesterday’s statement was close to those
issued before by the G-7 and G-20 and he hopes it puts an end to
exchange-rate discussions, the German official said.  Japan will be in the spotlight at a G-20 gathering in
Moscow that starts on Feb. 15 amid concern in Germany and
elsewhere that the yen’s slide has been excessive.  In their statement, G-7 finance ministers and central-bank
governors appeared to signal acceptance for a weaker yen so long
as Japanese Prime Minister  Shinzo Abe ’s government doesn’t
actively pursue devaluation.  That position was then challenged when an unidentified
official from a G-7 nation issued a clarification saying the
group was concerned about excessive moves in the yen and Japan’s
practice of giving guidance on its value. Japanese Vice Finance
Minister  Takehiko Nakao  declined to comment today on the
official’s remarks.  Tumbling Yen  The yen appreciated 0.2 percent to 93.31 per dollar as of
10:21 a.m. in London after gaining 0.9 percent yesterday. It
reached 94.46 per dollar on Feb. 11, the weakest since May 2010.
Japan’s currency has tumbled 18 percent in the past three
months, the worst performer among 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.  Abe’s Liberal Democratic Party swept to power in elections
in December on a campaign to beat deflation and weaken the yen.
Currency depreciation makes Japan’s products cheaper overseas,
boosting the competitiveness of exporters including  Toyota Motor
Corp . and  Sony Corp .  Germany will push for G-20 members to curb rising debts
because economic growth is hurt by investors losing faith in
governments’ ability to make repayments once debt reaches
certain thresholds, the official said in Berlin. Germany wants
follow-up goals to those agreed at a G-20 leaders’ summit in
Toronto in 2010, including a commitment to balance budgets by
2020.  The U.S. will push back against calls for further fiscal
austerity at the Moscow meeting, Treasury Under Secretary for
International Affairs  Lael Brainard  said Feb. 11. at a briefing
in Washington. Strengthening demand rather than trimming budgets
must be given priority, Brainard said, adding that a “premature
shift to restraint” would jeopardize the recovery.  In Toronto, G-20 leaders agreed that advanced economies
would commit to fiscal plans that would at least halve deficits
by 2013 and stabilize or reduce government debt-to-gross
domestic product ratios by 2016, a goal the euro region will
deliver on, the German official said. Russia wants the G-20 to
amend country-specific medium- and long-term public debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  