-- G-7 Statement May Obstruct Foreign Bond Purchases by BOJ
-- B y   K y o k o   S h i m o d o i   a n d   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2013-02-13T02:00:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/g-7-statement-may-obstruct-foreign-bond-purchases-by-boj.html
The Group of Seven’s position on
currencies could make it difficult for the Bank of Japan to
purchase foreign bonds to fight deflation and weaken the yen, an
idea the ruling party has proposed.  The G-7 released a statement yesterday that appeared to
signal acceptance for Japanese policies that lead to a weaker
currency, so long as Prime Minister  Shinzo Abe ’s government
doesn’t actively pursue devaluation.  “This could make it difficult for the BOJ not only to buy
foreign bonds but also to conduct monetary easing in other ways
that clearly impact on exchange rates,” Barclays Plc. analysts
led by  Chotaro Morita  said in research note today.  The yen has fallen about 15 percent against the dollar in
three months as  Abe  presses the central bank for more action to
beat deflation. While the outlook for the nation’s exporters has
improved, trading partners from Germany to South Korea have
voiced their discomfort with Japanese policies.  “We reaffirm that our fiscal and monetary policies have
been and will remain oriented towards meeting our respective
domestic objectives using domestic instruments and that we will
not target exchange rates,” the G-7 said in the statement.  The yen gained today against most major peers before a
Group of 20 meeting where leaders are expected to debate the
currency’s recent declines. The yen was trading 0.2 percent
higher at 93.28 per dollar at 10:40 a.m in Tokyo.  Abe’s Liberal Democratic Party has proposed a fund run by
the BOJ, the Ministry of Finance, and private investors to buy
foreign bonds, while  Kazumasa Iwata , a potential candidate for
BOJ governor, proposed something similar.  Iwata said in an interview last year that the BOJ should
create a 50 trillion yen ($536 billion) fund to buy foreign
bonds to combat the strong yen. Iwata is a possible candidate to
become BOJ Governor according to  Koichi Hamada , a retired Yale
University economics professor who is advising Abe on monetary
policy.  Finance ministers and central bankers from the G-20, which
includes the G-7 and emerging markets such as Brazil, China and
India, meet in Moscow on Feb. 15-16.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyoko Shimodoi in Tokyo at 
 kshimodoi@bloomberg.net ;
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  