-- GDF Suez Cutting Record Dividend Seen in Options Market: Energy
-- B y   T o d d   W h i t e   a n d   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-02-13T16:54:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/gdf-suez-cutting-record-dividend-seen-in-options-market-energy.html
GDF Suez SA Chief Executive Officer
 Gerard Mestrallet  says the French utility’s dividend is a sacred
cow -- even at a world-leading 10.2 percent yield. Options
traders don’t believe him.  While Mestrallet has promised to maintain the 1.50 euro
($2.02) annual per-share payment, and all 24 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg accept his pledge, investors are betting on a 16
percent cut to 1.26 euros, according to dividends implied by
 options trading . GDF Suez’s current yield is more than twice the
4.6 percent average of the 82-member MSCI World Utilities index.  “They may have to cut it a bit,”  Heino Hammann , an
analyst at Norddeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale in Hannover,
said by phone. The dividend “may be difficult to keep” at this
level for 2013 and beyond, said Hammann, who has a hold rating
on the stock and estimated a 1.50 euro dividend on Nov. 1.  Mestrallet is promising the 3.6 billion-euro annual payment
even after wholesale power prices and natural gas demand slid in
Europe and two of the company’s nuclear power plants were shut
in Belgium. His effort to make GDF Suez attractive to investors
is helped by  corporate bond  yields falling, which contributed to
the $1.6 trillion gain in global stocks since Dec. 31.  GDF Suez is among companies around the world rewarding
shareholders with the highest dividends in more than two decades
compared with bond interest payments, even after the best start
to a year for equities since 1994. The 1,610 stocks in the MSCI
World Index paid an average 2.7 percent of their share price in
dividends as of last week, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Highest Yields  GDF Suez is the world’s highest-yielding utility, ahead of
EON SE of Germany and France’s EDF SA with yields of 8.3 percent
and 8.1 percent, respectively, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg as of Feb. 8. Shares in GDF Suez fell 11 euro cents,
or 0.7 percent, to 14.87 euros at 5:29 p.m. in Paris.  The June 19 put, or a contract to sell the shares at 19
euros each in that month, fell 1.1 percent to 4.58 euros,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Exelon Corp., owner of the biggest group of U.S. nuclear
power plants, said last week it would cut its dividend for the
first time to maintain an investment-grade credit rating as
wholesale power prices decline.  For GDF Suez, “the board has confirmed its dividend policy
which is very clear, that every year a dividend equal or higher
than the previous one” will be paid, Mestrallet told analysts
Dec. 6. The 1.50-euro payout from 2012 earnings was decided by
the board even before the financial year was closed, he said.  February Announcement  Mestrallet, who was peppered with questions about the
dividend at the company’s investor day, gave his assurances as
the shares dropped 16 percent on lowered forecasts for earnings
this year and predicted weakness in 2014. The stock has since
touched its lowest level since the merger between Gaz de France
SA and Suez SA which created the utility in 2008.  An announcement on the next semiannual payment will be made
Feb. 28, according to Bloomberg forecasts.  Jerome Chambin , a
spokesman for GDF Suez, declined to comment. GDF Suez shares
have dropped 4.6 percent this year.  The company’s yield would drop to about 8.1 percent if it
reduces the payments made during calendar year 2013 to 1.20
euros, as implied by options. Dividends can be estimated, or
implied, by comparing the relative prices of put and call
options to forwards, a financial instrument an investor sells
for future delivery. A 1.20 euro dividend is about the level
earned by its stockholders a year ago.  Dividend ‘Priority’  GDF Suez, the second-largest utility by market value, has
more than enough room to maneuver, with “priority” given to
the dividend over capital expenditures if a choice had to be
made, Mestrallet said.  “We have a strong  free cash flow  to finance the dividend
and we have also the flexibility to adjust if it would be
necessary,” he said. “Is not in our mind, but we have the
capacity to adjust the capex in order to maintain the
dividend,” as was done in 2012.  The utility is planning to reduce capital expenditures by
20 percent in 2013 and 2014 to 7 billion euros to 8 billion
euros annually, according to a company statement in December,
which also said the board had a “commitment to the group’s
dividend policy.”  Free cash flow probably increased last year to 4.1 billion
euros from 2.96 billion euros in 2011, according to the average
of nine  analysts’ estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Cash flow generation will be stable in 2013 and 2014 even
though there is a negative macroeconomic situation and a
“negative situation” for power and energy prices in Europe,
Chief Financial Officer  Isabelle Kocher  said in December.  The utility has said 2013 and 2014 will be “two difficult
years in Europe” and it plans to lower debt by a third by the
end of 2014. It forecast a “rebound” in 2015 financial
performance, although it didn’t give figures in December.  GDF Suez has made its position “very clear” that it plans
to keep the dividend at 1.50 euros a year, said Martin Young, an
analyst at Nomura in London.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Todd White in Madrid  at 
 twhite2@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  