-- GE’s $16.7 Billion NBC Windfall Boosts M&A Flexibility
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2013-02-13T21:42:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/ge-s-16-7-billion-nbc-windfall-boosts-m-a-flexibility.html
General Electric Co. ’s $16.7 billion
payday from the sale of its stake in NBC Universal gives Chief
Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  more room to make acquisitions
as he focuses on industrial growth.  GE is already using much of the proceeds from the sale to
buy back its stock, boosting repurchases this year to $10
billion. The Fairfield, Connecticut-based company said in a
statement yesterday that its board voted to increase the size of
a share repurchase plan to $35 billion, with $23 billion of room
for further buybacks remaining.  Immelt is balancing shareholder rewards and acquisitions
such as the $4.3 billion purchase of Italian manufacturer Avio
SpA’s aerospace-parts business with a cost-cutting program to
boost margins at GE units including energy and health care. GE
will likely avoid huge acquisitions in favor of lower-risk
“bolt-on” deals, he said on a conference call today.  “We obviously have the flexibility to do more M&A, or
maybe even more buybacks, depending upon the opportunities we
see out there,” Chief Financial Officer  Keith Sherin  said.  Selling its stake in NBC Universal will likely give GE $10
billion to $13 billion to spend on acquisitions, after
subtracting cash committed to buybacks, dividends, capital
expenditures and debt retirement,  Steven Winoker , an  analyst  at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., wrote in a note to clients before
the call. He has a market perform rating on GE stock.  GE  climbed  3.6 percent to $23.39 today in New York, the
highest closing price since October 2008.  Entertainment Unit  The manufacturer owned NBC from its acquisition of RCA
Corp. for more than $6 billion in 1986 until December 2009, when
it agreed to sell a 51 percent stake in the unit to Comcast for
$9.8 billion in cash. During that stretch, Immelt expanded GE’s
media holdings with the 2003 addition of Vivendi Universal SA’s
U.S. media assets and built the unit into his highest-margin
business.  Money raised from the initial sale helped fund GE’s six-
month, $11 billion acquisition spree that ended in 2011 and saw
the company bolster its energy division with purchases including
Dresser Inc. and the well-support division of John Wood Group
Plc.  GE’s takeover strategy has since turned to building a
mining business within its transportation unit and consolidating
its aviation supply chain by buying companies that make
components used in its jet engines. The Avio deal, announced in
December, followed agreements to purchase Australian mining-
equipment manufacturer Industrea Ltd. and U.S.-based Fairchild
International Inc.  Real Estate  In addition to agreeing to buy the 49 percent of NBC
Universal it didn’t already own, Comcast will acquire property
at 30 Rockefeller Center in New York and Englewood Cliffs, New
Jersey, for an additional $1.4 billion, GE said. The company
will receive $12 billion in cash, $4 billion in Comcast-
guaranteed debt and $700 million of preferred stock.  The deal will generate a $1 billion pretax gain for GE,
which it will use to pay for restructuring, GE said in
yesterday’s statement. Its GE Capital unit will receive an
additional $900 million that will be used to cover losses on
sales of real estate holdings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  