-- German Stocks Rise for Second Day After Euro-Area Data
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-02-13T16:48:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/german-stocks-little-changed-before-euro-area-data.html
German stocks  advanced for a second
day after reports showed euro-area industrial output increased
in December and U.S. retail sales rose in January.  Wirecard AG jumped to the highest in almost six weeks after
Berenberg Bank upgraded its recommendation for the stock. Kabel
Deutschland Holding AG surged by a record after a person with
knowledge of the matter said Vodafone Group Plc is considering a
bid for Germany’s largest cable provider.  The  DAX  added 0.7 percent to 7,711.89 at the close in
Frankfurt. The benchmark gauge has risen 1.3 percent so far this
year, the second-worst performance among the 24 developed
markets tracked by Bloomberg. The broader HDAX Index climbed 0.8
percent today, while MDAX Index, a measure of midcap companies,
rallied to a 25-year high.  “Sentiment is better,”  Robert Halver , head of capital
markets research at Baader Bank AG in Frankfurt, said in a
telephone interview. “If the world economy is about to have a
renaissance, beginning in the second quarter of this year, this
is enough to help the German market today.”  The number of shares changing hands in companies listed on
the DAX was 25 percent lower than the average of the past 30
days, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Industrial Output  Factory production  in the 17-nation euro currency bloc rose
0.7 percent in December from the previous month, when it
declined a revised 0.7 percent, the European Union’s statistics
office in Luxembourg said. Economists had forecast a gain of 0.2
percent, according to the median of 41 estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey.  In the U.S., President  Barack Obama  said he would pursue a
trade agreement with the EU to expand the world’s largest
economic relationship, while at the same time finishing
discussions for a Pacific-region accord.  Sales  at U.S. retailers grew in January, a report showed.
The 0.1 percent climb followed an unrevised 0.5 percent increase
in December, according to Commerce Department figures. The
advance matched the median forecast of 80 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  The MDAX gained 1.7 percent to 13,003.14, the highest level
since January 1988. “The DAX’s little brother has reached a new
all time high which is a good sign for an upturn,” Halver said.  Wirecard, a provider of Internet-payment and processing
services, gained 1.4 percent to 18.83 euros, the highest price
since Jan. 3, after Berenberg Bank upgraded the stock to buy
from hold.  Kabel Deutschland  surged 8.8 percent 69.17 euros, the
biggest increase and the highest price since it sold shares to
the public in March 2010. Vodafone is considering a bid for the
company to expand in the country’s pay-TV and Internet market,
said a person who asked not to be identified because the plan is
private. Vodafone hasn’t yet contacted Kabel Deutschland about
its intention, the person said.  Carl Zeiss Meditec AG  jumped 2.5 percent to 25.01 euros,
the highest price in 12 years, after Deutsche Bank AG said it
expects the maker of products for eye examinations and surgeries
to report sound first-quarter results and confirm medium-term
targets tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  