-- German Energy Plan to Boost Steelmaker Costs, Industry Says
-- B y   T i n o   A n d r e s e n   a n d   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-02-13T17:52:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/german-energy-plan-to-inflate-steelmakers-costs-industry-says.html
German steelmakers face a 72 percent
jump this year in costs associated with the nation’s renewable-
energy subsidy plans and rule changes to Europe’s carbon market,
according to an industry lobby group.  Costs will surge to about 621 million euros ($838 million)
from 362 million euros last year,  Hans Juergen Kerkhoff ,
president of the Wirtschaftsvereinigung Stahl German steel
association, said today in an interview in Dusseldorf without
providing details.  German Environment Minister  Peter Altmaier ’s plan to shift
the burden of renewable subsidies to industry from households
may boost steel companies’ energy costs by 50 percent to about
400 million euros this year, Kerkhoff said. Altmaier also
supports a European Union proposal to restrict sales of carbon
emission permits to fix a glut that pushed the cost of the
certificates to record lows.  Connie Hedegaard , the EU’s climate-auction commissioner,
said on her Twitter Inc. account yesterday that emissions
trading made up a maximum 2 percent of steelmakers’ total costs.
Some metal companies earned millions of euros from free carbon
allowances, she said. ArcelorMittal, the world’s biggest steel
producer, earned $210 million from carbon permits in the fourth
quarter, the company said Feb. 6.  The German industry will have 13 percent fewer permits than
it needs to cover emissions over the next eight years, placing
it at a disadvantage against global competition, Kerkhoff said.  Altmaier proposed on Jan. 28 freezing the renewable energy
surcharge consumers pay at the current level in 2014, and said
any increase thereafter should be limited to 2.5 percent a year.  The minister is seeking to reduce and limit energy-
intensive industry exemptions from surcharges and possibly cap
the amount of rebated power they get. These industries have
already benefited from falling power prices, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tino Andresen in Dusseldorf at 
 tandresen1@bloomberg.net ;
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  