-- Getco Profit Plunges 82% Amid Slump in Stock Volumes
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a   a n d   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2013-02-13T23:57:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/getco-profit-plunges-82-amid-slump-in-stock-volumes.html
Getco LLC, the closely held high-
frequency trading company that negotiated a takeover of  Knight
Capital Group Inc . in December, said profit plunged last year as
stock-market volume dropped and volatility evaporated.  Net income fell 82 percent to $24.6 million in the nine
months ended Sept. 30, compared with $134.8 million a year ago,
according to a filing today. Revenue decreased 41 percent to
$425.3 million. Getco agreed to buy Knight in a $1.4 billion
deal after the market maker lost more than $450 million when
computers generated a flood of erroneous orders in August.  “When economic activities are low and volumes are low and
volatility is low, it’s a bad recipe,”  Christopher Allen , an
analyst at  Evercore Partners Inc . in New York, said in a phone
interview. “You look at trading revenues broadly, they’ve been
challenged.”  Getco’s disclosure is one of the first to detail its
financial health as the company prepares to issue stock as part
of the Knight acquisition. The filing may help clarify the value
of the Knight takeover since one-third of the price is
represented by newly issued Getco stock for which there hadn’t
previously been a public market. The new company will be called
KCG for Knight Capital Getco.  In accepting the bid, directors of the Jersey City, New
Jersey-based trading firm spurned an all-cash offer from Virtu
Financial LLC, another high-frequency trader, which argued that
its bid was superior because it wasn’t subject to the
uncertainty of the  stock market .  Knight Shares  Knight’s stock  rose  2 cents to $3.72 at the close of
trading in New York. It plunged from a 2012 high of $13.53 to
$2.36 on Nov. 15, 2012, and hasn’t traded above $4 since early
August. Getco offered $3.75 a share for Knight, one-third of it
in stock, for a total value of $1.4 billion, according to a Dec.
19 statement from Knight.  “The trading price of a share of KCG common stock is
currently uncertain and we can provide no assurance as to the
values at which shares of KCG will publicly trade,” Getco said
in the filing. “Although shares of Knight are currently listed
for trading on the NYSE, units of Getco are not listed for
trading on a national securities exchange and Getco has not been
subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act.”  Volume, Volatility  The filing shows plunging volume and  volatility  last year
spurred a deterioration in Getco’s primary business of making
markets on equity exchanges and other venues through automated,
high-speed programs. The company’s revenue from market making,
which represents almost 94 percent of the total, fell 44 percent
during the first nine months of 2012.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange  Volatility Index , known
as the VIX, has declined 32 percent during the past 12 months,
reaching a five-year low in January.  Average daily  volume  for stocks listed on U.S. exchanges
has declined every year since 2009, falling 18 percent in 2012
to a low of 6.42 billion shares, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares with 9.77 billion in 2009 and 6.36
billion so far in 2013.  Chicago-based Getco’s annual revenue was $915.5 million in
2011, $866.9 million in 2010 and $956.8 million in 2009,
according to the filing. About 68 percent of Getco’s trading
revenue came from equities, compared with 21 percent from fixed
income and 11 percent from commodities and foreign exchange in
the nine months ended Sept. 30, it said.  ‘Mid-Frequency’ Trading  Most of Getco’s market-making revenue is from high-
frequency strategies with short-term risks and little overnight
exposure to price moves. The company is now building a “mid-
frequency” market-making business that will depend less on
trading volume and involve positions being held for at least
several days, the filing said.  Getco spent $36.8 million in the first nine months of 2012
to develop trading strategies in its options, global arbitrage,
mid-frequency and execution-services businesses, the filing
said. Its staff increased to 409 employees at the end of the
period, compared with 372 a year earlier. Knight had 1,524
employees at the end of last year.  The expanded businesses probably haven’t yet added
meaningfully to revenue,  Richard Repetto , an analyst at Sandler
O’Neill & Partners LP, said in a report today. Getco’s adjusted
net income for the first three quarters of 2012, after adding
back that investment, was $60.3 million, down 55 percent from
the year-earlier period, he wrote.  Rivals Consolidating  Revenue from high-frequency stock trading may increase by
about 22 percent to $2.2 billion in 2013 as  volume  in U.S.
equity markets rebounds following a three-year slump, according
to Tabb Group LLC. With rivals consolidating or ceasing
operations in some regions or asset classes, Getco said it may
be able to extend its market share when volume and volatility
increase, according to the filing.  “Market making across the board has been under pressure
for the last couple of years,”  Adam Sussman , director of
research at Tabb, said in a phone interview. “There was more
supply than demand. We’re seeing that rationalize now through
consolidation. This was a low point, and through consolidation
and modest recovery, the prospects will be better.”  Trading volume may increase by 6 percent this year after
declining from 2010 to 2012, Sussman predicted in a January
report. High-frequency trading revenue reached $7.2 billion at
its peak in 2009 before declining to $1.8 billion in 2012, the
report said.  Cost Savings  The merger combines the technology and operations of Getco
with Knight’s customer-servicing business. Knight, which as a
wholesaler executes orders from individual investors sent to it
by about 700 retail brokers, provides access to markets and
execution services to about 650 brokerages and 1,500
institutional clients, the filing said. It runs platforms to
trade bonds, foreign currency pairs and precious metals.  Cost savings in the combined company will come from
“redundancy eliminations” in technology infrastructure,
employee and professional fees, the filing said. Increased
revenue may result from better trading strategies and higher
rebates from exchanges and other venues for supplying liquidity.  Knight’s computers accidentally bombarded U.S. equity
 exchanges  with share orders in August, spurring a trading loss
of more than $450 million and eventually a bailout by six
financial firms including Getco and investment bank  Jefferies
Group Inc.   “Knight and Getco have created an integration planning
framework,” the companies said in the filing today. “There is
a high-level shared acknowledgment at both companies that key
priorities for the integration include mitigating operational
risk and seamlessly integrating all necessary risk controls.”  Knight said earlier this month that it would cut 5 percent
of its workforce as it combines sales teams and discontinues its
clearing business. The company reported an 84 percent decline in
fourth-quarter  earnings  after trading slowed and stock-price
swings narrowed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  