-- Gibson Dunn, Drinker Biddle, Venable: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-02-13T12:14:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/gibson-dunn-drinker-biddle-venable-business-of-law.html
Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP
appointed corporate partner  Beau Stark  as the partner in charge
of the firm’s Denver office. He replaces  Richard Russo , who
retired from the firm.  Stark is a partner in the firm’s corporate transactions
practice group, where he advises clients in the energy and
mining, ski, and other sectors. He has experience in mergers and
acquisitions, joint ventures, public offerings, capital markets
transactions, securities offerings, management participation and
financing, tender offers, private fund formation and general
corporate matters, the firm said.  Russo was a founder of the Denver office, which opened in
1981, and a former co-chairman of the corporate transactions
practice group.  Gibson Dunn has more than 1,100 lawyers and 17 offices in
the Americas, Europe, the Middle East and Asia.  Fees  Cadwalader Pays Ocala $125,000, Waives $1.6 Million  Ocala Funding LLC, a subsidiary of previously bankrupt
Taylor Bean & Whitaker Mortgage Corp., negotiated a settlement
where law firm  Cadwalader Wickersham & Taft LLP  will pay
$125,000 and give up a claim for more than $1.6 million.  Lawyers from Cadwalader, based in New York, represented
Taylor Bean before bankruptcy. Ocala followed Taylor Bean by
filing its own Chapter 11 petition in July.  Although listing Cadwalader as being owed $1.6 million for
legal services, Ocala said it might have claims against the firm
for work done before bankruptcy.  Deciding that claims against the firm “would be difficult
to prove,” Ocala decided to settle. At a hearing on March 6 in
U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Jacksonville, Florida, the judge will
decide if it’s sufficient for Cadwalader to waive the $1.6
million claim and pay $125,000.  Ocala filed a proposed Chapter 11 plan this month to
implement an agreement reached before bankruptcy with holders of
almost all of Ocala’s $1.5 billion in secured and $800 million
in unsecured claims. The plan will create a trust to prosecute
lawsuits on behalf of creditors with more than $2.5 billion in
claims. The explanatory disclosure statement is scheduled for
approval at the March 6 hearing. For details, click here for the
Feb. 6 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  Wholly owned by Taylor Bean, Ocala was supposed to be a
bankruptcy-remote entity to purchase mortgage loans made by
Taylor Bean that in turn would be sold to Freddie Mac. According
to a court filing by Ocala, Taylor Bean’s former Chairman  Lee Farkas  caused Ocala to make $805 million in improper transfers
to cover up a fraud he was conducting at Taylor Bean.  Farkas was sentenced to 30 years in federal prison after
being convicted on 14 counts of conspiracy and bank, wire and
securities fraud in what prosecutors said was a $3 billion
scheme involving fake mortgage assets.  The Ocala bankruptcy is In re Ocala Funding LLC, 12-04524,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Middle District of Florida
(Jacksonville). The parent’s case is Taylor Bean & Whitaker
Mortgage Corp., 09-07047, same court.  Moves  Former Assistant U.S. Attorney Collins Joins Drinker Biddle  Daniel J. Collins a federal prosecutor who handled the case
of David Headley, a U.S. citizen who was an advance scout in the
2008 Mumbai terrorist attacks that killed more than 160 people,
joined  Drinker Biddle & Reath LLP  as a partner in the firm’s
Chicago office.  Collins, who spent 10 years as a federal prosecutor, was
the deputy chief in the Financial Crimes and Special
Prosecutions section at the U.S. Attorney’s Office, where he
oversaw fraud and financing investigations, the firm said. He
also managed investigations into export/import laws and
international sanctions-controls violations for the past seven
years, the firm said.  Collins will focus on representing companies and
individuals responding to government inquiries, in criminal
matters and high-stakes civil litigation, the firm said.  Drinker Biddle has 650 lawyers in 11 U.S. offices.  Business and Finance Attorney Travis Leach Joins Ballard Spahr  Corporate and securities attorney Travis J. Leach joined
Ballard Spahr LLP as a partner in the Phoenix office from
 Jennings Strouss & Salmon Plc . He will be a member of the
mergers and acquisitions/private equity, securities, sports, and
transactional finance groups.  Leach handles mergers and acquisitions, public offerings,
private placements, corporate governance matters, and Sarbanes-
Oxley and Securities and Exchange Commission compliance matters,
the firm said.  He also counsels professional sports organizations,
ownership groups, athletes, coaches and entertainers in contract
and licensing negotiations and other business ventures.  Ballard Spahr has more than 500 lawyers in 13 offices in
the U.S.  Import-Export Lawyer Joins Edwards Wildman in Stamford  Edwards Wildman Palmer LLP hired John C. Fusco as a partner
in the business law department in Stamford, Connecticut. Fusco
joins from the Hartford office of  Shipman & Goodwin LLP , where
he was a partner.  Fusco focuses his practice on international trade and
government contracting, including export compliance and controls
and U.S. Customs and trade laws, the firm said.  Edwards Wildman has 625 lawyers at 15 offices in the U.S.,
London and Asia.  Lavely & Singer Partner Joins Venable in Los Angeles  Venable LLP hired entertainment-industry lawyer William J.
Briggs II in the firm’s Los Angeles office as a partner in the
commercial litigation group. Previously, Briggs was a partner at
Lavely & Singer in Los Angeles.  Briggs has trial and complex litigation experience in
contractual matters and discrimination and harassment lawsuits,
as well as copyright, trademark and trade-secret issues.  Venable has seven U.S. offices.  Two Jackson Lewis Philadelphia Partners Joins Fisher & Phillips  Fisher & Phillips LLP  hired two Philadelphia labor and
employment attorneys from Jackson Lewis LLP, including the
latter firm’s former founding managing partner, Rick Grimaldi.
Lori Armstrong Halber also joins the firm as a partner from
Jackson Lewis.  Both Grimaldi and Armstrong Halber represent employers in
labor relations and employment law, including discrimination and
wrongful discharge litigation and wage and hours matters, and
assist businesses in traditional labor matters such as union
organizing and arbitration, the firm said.  Before entering into private practice, Grimaldi held a
senior position in the legal department of Unisys Corp. He also
served as deputy general counsel to then-Pennsylvania Governor
Tom Ridge and was chief counsel to the Pennsylvania Department
of Labor and Industry, the firm said.  Armstrong Halber is also an adjunct professor of employment
discrimination law at Temple University’s Beasley School of Law.  Fisher & Phillips has more than 275 attorneys in 28 U.S.
offices.  News  America’s Oldest Director Quits at 96 to Focus on Tax Law Firm  Mortimer Caplin , who is stepping down from the board of
Danaher Corp. at age 96, said the departure will allow him to
spend more time on two of his longtime passions: tax law and the
University of Virginia.  “I’m still practicing law, and our firm is very heavily
involved in the tax world,” Caplin, founder of  Caplin &
Drysdale , said yesterday in a phone interview. “I swim every
day and I’m at the office every day.”  The attorney will resign in May as a director at  Danaher ,
after serving on the board since 1990, the Washington-based
provider of measuring and diagnostic equipment said in a filing.  “I haven’t regarded age as a real factor,” Caplin said.
“It’s a question of capability and I suppose willingness at the
same time.”  Caplin was appointed commissioner of the Internal Revenue
Service in 1961 by then-President  John F. Kennedy  after
previously teaching law at the University of Virginia, where
 Robert F. Kennedy  and  Edward Kennedy  were among his students.  Caplin received a doctor of juridical science degree from
New York University. A veteran of the U.S. Navy, he served as a
beachmaster in the Normandy invasion of Nazi-occupied Europe,
according to a biography on his law firm’s website.  Caplin founded Caplin & Drysdale after leaving the IRS. The
law firm has offices in Washington and New York and provides tax
advice to corporate and individual clients.  For more, click here.  Litigation  Obama S&P Pursuit Started When Toxic Debt Masqueraded as AAA  When the U.S. Justice Department charged Standard & Poor’s
with fraud earlier this month and demanded $5 billion in
restitution, it was the culmination of the Obama
administration’s four-year pursuit of financial chicanery
masquerading as sacrosanct credit ratings, Bloomberg News’ Phil
Mattingly reports.  Two dozen lawyers were assigned to a probe they called
“Alchemy,” for the medieval pseudo-science that tried to turn
lead into gold, as the department modeled a federal case on an
analogy for failed mortgage-debt packages. They dug into 30
million documents, found cooperating witnesses and say they’ve
got the evidence to win in court on an issue President  Barack Obama  since 2009 has been saying helped bring the U.S. economy
to the brink of collapse.  A review of legislative and regulatory documents and
interviews with current and former administration officials
shows that frustration with New York-based S&P, the nation’s
largest ratings firm, Moody’s Corp. and Fitch Ratings has
existed almost since Obama took office.  What started as an effort by Obama’s Treasury Department to
right a system reeling from the worst financial breakdown in
eight decades has now become a Justice Department lawsuit
seeking $5 billion from S&P’s parent,  McGraw-Hill Cos ., after
months of failed settlement talks.  The Justice Department, 16 states and the District of
Columbia are suing the firm for fraud. Attorney General  Eric Holder  called its practices “egregious” and his deputy  Tony West , the department’s third-ranked official, said the company
played “a significant role in helping to bring our economy to
the brink of collapse.”  “The company does not believe the cases have legal or
factual merit and we intend to defend the company vigorously,”
 Kenneth Vittor , McGraw-Hill’s general counsel, said yesterday in
the company’s fourth quarter earnings conference call with
investors. Vittor cited the more than 40 other cases the company
has fended off in the wake of the financial crisis.  The Justice Department says it’s ready for court. It also
doesn’t rule out renewed talks. Nor did Vittor yesterday.  “Our lawyers and staff served hundreds of civil subpoenas,
spent thousands of hours reviewing and analyzing millions of
pages of documents, and contacted and interviewed over 150
witnesses, including dozens of former S&P analysts and
executives,”  Stuart Delery , head of the Justice Department’s
civil division, said last week flanked by seven of the 17 state
and District of Columbia attorneys general who have also brought
suits against the company.  Both sides say they are ready to take the case, filed in
California, to court. S&P hired  John Keker , the San Francisco
trial attorney who has represented investment banker  Frank Quattrone  and  Enron Corp . executive  Andrew Fastow , to join its
team defending the company. Quattrone, founder of Qatalyst
Partners, won dismissal of all criminal charges that he
obstructed a federal investigation into Credit Suisse AG. Fastow
pleaded guilty in 2004 to two counts of wire and securities
fraud.  Holder said the Justice Department “would not have brought
this case unless we felt we had a case that we could bring and
that we would win.”  For more, click here.  Bankruptcy  Dewey Workers’ Class-Action Suit Survives for Now  Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP , the defunct law firm, failed to
persuade the bankruptcy judge to dismiss a class lawsuit brought
on behalf of 550 former employees who were fired without the 60
days’ notice required by federal labor law.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Martin Glenn  wrote a 19-page opinion
this week rebuffing Dewey’s effort at requiring every one of the
former employees to file a claim separately in the bankruptcy
that began in May. The bankruptcy may be largely wrapped up at a
Feb. 27 confirmation hearing for approval of a Chapter 11 plan
based on contributions to be made under settlements with former
partners.  For the time being at least, Glenn turned down Dewey’s
attempt at dismissing the suit under the so-called liquidating
fiduciary principle, where a trustee for a business in
liquidation isn’t held responsible for mass firings without
notice. Glenn said facts to be developed at trial might support
the defense and result in dismissal of all employees’ claims.  Glenn will allow the suit to proceed as a class-action for
now. There will be a later hearing to decide formally if a
class-action is proper.  As a result of a previously approved settlement with a
larger partner group, the firm estimated that available asset
proceeds for distribution to creditors will range from $146.8
million to $246.7 million. The midpoint recoveries for secured
and unsecured creditors are 58.4 percent and 9.1 percent,
respectively. For details on the Dewey plan, click here for the
Nov. 23 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  The firm once had 1,300 lawyers before liquidation began
under Chapter 11 in May. At the outset of bankruptcy, there was
secured debt of about $225 million and accounts receivable of
$217.4 million, the firm previously said.  The petition listed assets of $193 million and liabilities
of $245.4 million as of April 30.  The case is In re Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, 12-12321, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Video  NHL’s Lawyer: Lockouts Are ‘Necessary’ Weapons  Robert Batterman , senior member of the Sports Law Group at
Proskauer Rose LLP, talks with Bloomberg Law’s Spencer Mazyck
about his representation of the National Hockey League during
recent negotiations with its players’ union to form a 10-year
collective bargaining agreement, the longest in NHL history. The
league and the National Hockey League Players’ Association
approved the contract’s framework in January to begin a lockout-
shortened season.  Batterman, who similarly serves as labor counsel for the
National Football League and Major League Soccer, also discusses
in this “Rainmakers” episode the “economically justifiable”
reasons for lockouts this round in the NHL, NFL and NBA.  This is a Bloomberg podcast. To download, watch or listen
to this report, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  