-- Gold Fields Chairwoman Ramphele Resigns for Politics
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2013-02-13T10:56:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/gold-fields-chairwoman-ramphele-resigns-for-politics.html
Gold Fields Ltd. Chairwoman  Mamphela Ramphele  resigned from her position and will leave all other
private directorships to pursue “socio-economic and political
work,” the company said.  Ramphele, 65, is a former managing director of the World
Bank and ex-director of  Anglo American Plc , the largest investor
in South  African mining . She was appointed chairwoman of  Gold
Fields  in November 2010. A medical doctor and social
anthropologist, Ramphele was a one-time partner of anti-
apartheid leader  Steve Biko , who founded South Africa’s Black
Consciousness Movement and died in 1977 after sustaining brain
damage during a beating while in police custody.  “She has resigned from most of her private sector
directorships and will relinquish all other remaining private
sector directorships and positions to focus on these
activities,” the Johannesburg-based company said today in a
statement.  Ramphele will outline her political plans at a Feb. 18
press conference following reports that she will start a new
political party to challenge South Africa’s ruling African
National Congress. The African National Congress has governed
the continent’s largest economy since taking power under  Nelson Mandela  in the first all-race elections in 1994 and controls
almost two-thirds of the seats in Parliament. Ramphele has
criticized the party’s failure to reduce the 25 percent
 unemployment  rate.  Other high-profile leaders have refused to join Ramphele’s
effort to form a new party, Johannesburg-based Business Day
reported on Jan 28.  Non-Executive Director  Cheryl Carolus  will replace Ramphele
with immediate effect, the company said.  Gold Fields maintained gains, advancing 1.1 percent to
92.29 rand at 12.44 p.m. in Johannesburg trading.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  