-- Greedy Boozer Faces Swedish Underworld on Parisian Stage
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2013-02-13T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/greedy-boozer-faces-swedish-underworld-on-parisian-stage.html
Many call him a modern Strindberg.
Lars Noren, Sweden’s most prolific playwright, hates being
compared to his famous countryman.  His hero is  Eugene O’Neill , the U.S. dramatist.
Unfortunately, his love is unrequited. While his more than 90
plays have been translated into many languages and are regularly
performed in France and Germany, he is virtually unknown in the
U.S.  “Calme,” or Calm, is already the fourth production of a
Noren play at the Theatre des Amandiers in Nanterre, a Paris
suburb.  In most of his plays, Noren, 68, tackles social issues.
“Category 3.1” (1998) paints a bleak picture of Stockholm’s
underworld, giving voice to drug dealers, alcoholics, the
homeless, pimps and prostitutes.  “Cold” (2002) denounces xenophobia in Sweden, exemplified
by a Korean boy who gets beaten up by three drunk neo-Nazis.  “In Memory of  Anna Politkovskaya ” (2007) pays tribute to
the Russian journalist whose contract-style murder is generally
believed to have been an act of revenge for her courageous
coverage of the Chechnya conflict.  In 1999, Noren caused a national scandal in his prison play
“7:3,” which he also directed, which used actual convicts as
actors. After the final performance, some of them escaped and
robbed a bank. During the pursuit, two policemen were shot dead.  Autobiographical Trilogy  “Calm” (1984), one of his earlier plays, is part of an
autobiographical trilogy.  Ernst (Jean-Pierre Darroussin) and Lena (Christiane Millet)
are running an inn on the brink of bankruptcy in rural Sweden.
He is an alcoholic; she is dying of cancer and, from time to
time, gives herself a shot of morphine.  John (Alban Guyon) and Ingemar (Nicolas Pirson), their
sons, couldn’t be more different: John, who has been
hospitalized for a mental disorder and tried to kill himself,
dreams of becoming a playwright. Ingemar despises his chaotic
family and can’t wait to get out.  The play starts early in the morning when the father
implores, in vain, his sister over the phone to lend him money,
and after several excursions to the wine cellar, ends late at
night on the same day with his desperate outcry: “I haven’t
lived! My life is worthless!”  O’Neill Homage  If that reminds you of O’Neill’s autobiographical drama “A
Long Day’s Journey into Night,” it’s intentional: “Calm” is
Noren’s homage to his idol.  The difference between the two plays is that O’Neill,
though also too wordy, tells his story with hypnotic power while
Noren often gets lost in empty rhetoric and doesn’t even shrink
from the oldest of old hats -- monologues.  The production at the  Theatre des Amandiers , directed by
Jean-Louis Martinelli, is worthy rather than inspired. Gilles
Taschet’s set is atmospheric yet the acting remains on the
surface.  Darroussin is in specialist in wretched creatures; what I
missed is the charm and former grandeur beneath his lies and
whiny outbursts.  John, the author’s alter ego, is a romantic jeune premier
in the vein of Kostya, the suicidal would-be-playwright in  Anton Chekhov’s  “The Seagull.” Guyon simply isn’t poetic enough.  Still, the production whets your appetite for more from the
same author. “Calm” may be derivative. Drastically pruned and
with more persuasive actors, it could be a tremendous hit.  Rating: ***.  “Calme” runs through Feb. 23. Information: +33-1-4614-7000
or  http://www.nanterre-amendiers.com .  ( Jorg von Uthmann  is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  on the art market,
 Richard Vines  on food and  Ryan Sutton  on New York dining.  To contact the writer of this review:
 Jorg von Uthmann  in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at  mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 