-- Guinness Nigeria Falls Most in 2 Months on Profit: Lagos Mover
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2013-02-13T14:33:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/guinness-nigeria-falls-most-in-two-months-as-profit-declines.html
Guinness Nigeria Plc , the West
African nation’s second-largest brewer, had its biggest retreat
in almost two months after posting a 16 percent decline in
first-half profit.  The shares of Diageo Plc’s local unit fell 1.8 percent to
291 naira at the  close in Lagos, the commercial capital, the
biggest drop since Dec. 19. The stock has risen 5.8 percent this
year, compared with a 19 percent rally for the Nigerian Stock
Exchange All-Share Index.  Net income slid to 6.42 billion naira ($40.8 million) for
the six months ended Dec. 31, from 7.62 billion naira a year
earlier, Guinness Nigeria reported yesterday. Inflation in
Africa’s most populous nation boosted raw material costs and
crimped consumer spending on beer and non-alcoholic beverages,
Chief Executive Officer  Seni Adetu  said on a conference call.  A slowdown in volume growth “has been visible in the
financials for a number of quarters now, due to a combination of
market share loss and a squeeze on household incomes,”  Tunde Abidoye , a Lagos-based analyst at FBN Capital Ltd., wrote in an
e-mailed note to clients today. FBN Capital cut its earnings per
share forecast by 8 percent over the 2013 to 2015 period and
kept its rating on the stock as underperform, he said.  Consumer-price inflation stayed above 10 percent last year
in Nigeria after the government increased the cost of fuel and
the country’s two biggest rivers overflowed their banks, killing
363 people and damaging farmland.  Trade in the north of the country has also suffered from
unrest stirred by the Islamist militant group Boko Haram, Adetu
said. Boko Haram has carried out gun and bomb attacks in the
mainly Muslim north and the capital, Abuja, in which hundreds
have been killed since 2009.  Consumer demand is unlikely to deteriorate further in the
fiscal second half, Adetu said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  