-- Libya’s Naked Lady Offers Image of Defiance to Islamists
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   S t e p h e n   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-02-13T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/libya-s-naked-lady-offers-image-of-defiance-to-islamists.html
From her perch in Tripoli fronting
the Mediterranean, the naked woman and her gazelle have been
silent witnesses to much of Libya’s past century: colonialism,
monarchy, dictatorship and post-revolutionary unrest.  The bronze statue, with her back to the sea and an
outstretched arm reaching toward the animal’s neck, is described
as a symbol of unity by Libyans like Mustafa Turjman, head of
research at Libya’s Antiquities Department. It’s also become a
target for Islamists who have already taken aim at shrines and
monuments across the country.  Saving the Tripoli landmark has become a battle in
miniature for the new Libya, two years after  Muammar Qaddafi  was
toppled from power in an uprising that left the country in the
hands of a weak government and feuding militias.  “The Gazelle is something for all of Tripoli,” said Souad
Wheidi, a therapist, referring the statue by its nickname. “She
is part of our city’s heritage, she has survived, as have we.”  In the security vacuum that emerged since Qaddafi’s removal
and killing in 2011, Islamists have flexed their muscles through
attacks on foreign diplomats. They’ve also stolen the corpses of
“idolatrous” Muslims and driven bulldozers through mosques and
libraries. In August, acting on a tipoff, local authorities
deployed police in bullet-proof vests and armed vehicles to
prevent a religiously motivated attack against the bronze
statue.  Protest March  Demonstrators marched around it the following day, calling
for better protection for the lady and the rest of Libya’s
cultural heritage. “It was a small, small, minority who were
trying to break it, so we stood there against them,” said
Wheidi, who helped organize the protest march.  The threats are part of the fallout from the Arab Spring
uprisings that opened the door to democracy in Libya, as well as
neighboring Tunisia and Egypt, where works of art have also
attracted attention.  Al-Shorouk newspaper reported yesterday that the statue of
the country’s greatest diva, Um Kalthoum, had been covered with
a niqab, the all-encompassing veil worn by ultraconservative
Muslim women, in the Egyptian city of Mansoura.  In all three North African nations, Islamists have also
targeted shrines or other sites they deem offensive to Islam,
sparking concerns among antiquities officials of destructive
attacks on some of the world’s most valued sites.  Roman City  According to the  United Nations Educational Scientific and
Cultural Organization , five Libyan World Heritage sites,
including 12,000-year-old rock paintings in the Tadrart Acacus
Mountains, the Roman city of Leptis Magna, and the Old City of
Ghadames, one of the oldest pre-Saharan cities in existence, are
among the sites at risk from deliberate destruction.  At least 70 Sufi sites have been attacked since Qaddafi’s
death, according to leaders of the sect, which emphasizes
esoteric and mystical elements of Islam using dance and prayer,
and is considered idolatrous by some ultraconservative Muslims.  Islamists were driven underground by Qaddafi but have re-
emerged since his downfall. The most visible sign of their
strength has been in the eastern city of Benghazi, where U.S.
Ambassador  Chris Stevens  was killed in September.  The continued existence of the statue suggests Islamists in
Tripoli aren’t as confident as in other parts of the country,
said Shashank Joshi, associate fellow at the London-based  Royal
United Services Institute , in an interview. This makes the
statue, installed during the Italian era of 1911-1942, something
of a bellwether for militant strength.  ‘Allegorical Figure’  “They may know they’d face a greater range of opposition
if they destroyed something like that in Tripoli now, where
there is more chance of retaliation than elsewhere,” he said.  “She is not intended to be seen as an object of sexual
desire, but rather an as allegorical figure,” said David
Rifkind, assistant professor at  Florida International
University , who curated an exhibition on Italian fascist art in
North and East Africa last year, in an interview.  The lady represents Italy and the life-giving role of water
in a desert being made fertile by aqueducts while the gazelle
symbolizes Tripolitania and Cyrenaica, regions united by Italy
in 1934 to form modern-day Libya, Rifkind said.  It also challenges assumptions about Tripoli, where a tacit
dress code demands arms and legs are covered for modesty.  “People who live in Tripoli consider it to be very
important, it’s a symbol of the city,” said Adel Turki,
lecturer in Material Science at Bristol University who was born
in Tripoli and helped advise on the statue’s cleaning last year.
“It is part of the city, people want to protect it.”  Italian Rule  The fountain’s original name was “Sorgente di Vita,” or
Source of Life, according to the dusty archives of Tripoli’s Red
Castle Museum, and was made by Angiolo Vannetti.  Qaddafi spared the lady, as well as two columns on the
harbor crowned by statues of Romulus and Remus, the fabled twin
founders of Rome, even as he destroyed other reminders of
Italian rule. In turn, artwork from Qaddafi’s four-decade rule
was pulled down in the revolution.  “She survived Italians, the German army, British rule, the
King and Qaddafi, just as we did,” Mohamed Bushera, a taxi
driver, tells a passenger on a recent drive past the lady.
“Qaddafi built almost nothing in our city in 40 years. We want
more beautiful things, not less. We would be angry if the
Salafists destroyed her.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Stephen in Tripoli at 
 cstephen9@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  