-- Hidden Microphones at Guantanamo Disclosed in Hearing
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-02-13T00:50:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/hidden-microphones-at-guantanamo-disclosed-in-hearing.html
Meeting rooms used by accused
plotters of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks to consult
with their attorneys had microphones in the ceiling that could
be used by the U.S. government to monitor conversations, the top
legal adviser for the Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, prison camp said.  The disclosure by Navy Captain Thomas Welsh in court
yesterday came as part of an effort by defense lawyers to show
the potential for government eavesdropping on confidential
attorney-client conversations. Welsh said the microphones,
disguised to look like smoke detectors, were never used to
monitor such meetings.  “Under my watch, definitely, we just don’t listen in,”
said Welsh, who has held his position as staff judge advocate
since May 2011.  The mystery of who may be listening in on private talks
between  Khalid Sheikh Mohammed  and four other defendants and
their attorneys, and whether anything should be done to prevent
it, has stymied proceedings in the biggest U.S. terrorism case.
Prosecutors are seeking the death penalty in the case, which may
not go to trial for more than a year.  Welsh said he accidentally discovered the potential for
audio monitoring in the meeting rooms in January 2012, after
walking into a control room and finding a law enforcement
official wearing a headset to listen to a public meeting between
prosecutors and defense counsel.  Power Disconnected  The military judge in the Sept. 11 case, Army Colonel  James Pohl , said audio monitoring in the rooms “is no longer
possible.” Welsh said the power source has been disconnected.  Defense lawyers used a day of testimony from current and
former courthouse and prison camp officials to suggest that
private attorney-client consultations may have been compromised.  David Nevin, Mohammed’s chief attorney, questioned why
prison rules for attorney-client meetings require attorneys to
disclose what languages will be spoken if no audio monitoring is
taking place.  “I don’t recall,” Welsh said when asked about that rule.  Defense lawyers had filed an emergency motion seeking to
bar the military from monitoring their confidential talks with
the accused after discovering that a secret government official,
known as an “original classification authority,” had cut off
audio and video feeds of proceedings from the military courtroom
to the public two weeks ago.  Pohl, who indicated he was as surprised as defense
attorneys by the cutoff that he hadn’t authorized, issued an
order making clear that he has sole authority to censor the
feeds.  Sensitive Microphones  Defense attorneys said the incident convinced them that
their private conversations also could be monitored by the
government because of sensitive microphones in the courtroom and
listening devices in holding cells.  Prosecutors have denied any
government eavesdropping.  Maurice Elkins, director of courtroom technology for the
Office of Military Commissions at Guantanamo, testified
yesterday that the courtroom microphones can be used to pick up
private conversations conducted at low decibel levels.  That sensitive feed is transmitted to the court reporter,
translators and the original classification authority, part of a
government agency that hasn’t been publicly identified. The
public audio feed, transmitted on a 40-second delay, captures
only speech that reaches a certain volume.  Under Pohl’s order, the microphone system in the courtroom
was altered Feb. 11 so that each microphone is kept off until
someone pushes a button to speak. The microphones previously
were kept on unless someone pushed a “mute” button.  Letters Seized  Defense lawyers also raised concern about an inspection of
correspondence with their clients.  Army Lieutenant Colonel Ramon Torres, who worked at the
prison camp for a year until August, testified by satellite from
Orlando, Florida, that he was troubled by a change in security
practice that required him to open the defendants’ mail and to
stamp the back of each page after checking for physical
contraband.  “I was concerned about the perception of unethical
conduct,” Torres said.  Mohammed and the four others are accused of plotting the
attacks that used hijacked passenger airplanes to kill almost
3,000 people at the World Trade Center in Manhattan, the
Pentagon in Virginia, and in Pennsylvania.  They are charged with conspiring to finance, train and
direct the 19 hijackers who seized the four planes, terrorism,
hijacking aircraft, conspiracy, murder in violation of the laws
of war and attacking civilians.  ‘Very Fortunate’  Eve Bucca, whose husband Ronald, a former New York City
fire marshal, died on the 79th floor of the World Trade Center’s
second tower, said after yesterday’s hearing that she was
grateful for the chance to see the accused in person.  “I feel very fortunate that I’m down here,” Bucca said.
While calling the hours of testimony on courtroom mechanics
“somewhat frustrating,” she said she understood the need for
it. “I don’t want anyone let off on a technicality,” she said.  While the Obama administration had initially pushed to try
the case in New York City, Bucca said she supports holding the
trial at the military base at Guantanamo.  “In this environment, I think this is the safest way to do
it,” she said.  Asked if she wanted to return to Guantanamo to see more of
the proceedings, Bucca said, “In a perfect world, I’d like to
be here every day.”  The case is U.S. v. Mohammed, Military Commissions Trial
(Guantanamo Bay, Cuba).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  