-- IEA Trims Global Oil Demand Forecast on Muted Economic Recovery
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-02-13T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/iea-trims-global-oil-demand-forecast-on-muted-economic-recovery.html
The International Energy Agency
trimmed forecasts for global oil demand this year for the first
time in three months as constrained economic growth undermines
fuel consumption.  The adviser reduced estimates by 90,000 barrels a day
following a weaker outlook from the International Monetary Fund,
and predicted that world oil demand will increase by 840,000 a
day in 2013, or 0.9 percent, to 90.7 million. OPEC output fell
to its lowest in a year, limiting the relief for prices from an
increase in spare production capacity, the IEA said. Brent crude
rose to the highest in nine months Feb. 8.  “The reduction in the IMF outlook for Europe seems
particularly ominous,” the Paris-based agency said in its
monthly oil market report. “Despite signs of improvement in
China and the U.S., weak macroeconomic conditions are forecast
to keep global oil demand growth capped.”  Brent futures have increased 7 percent this year amid signs
of recovery in the U.S. and China and concern that political
tensions may disrupt Middle East oil exports. Price gains have
been capped by concern that Europe’s debt turmoil may hinder the
world economy’s rebound. The IMF curtailed estimates for global
economic expansion in 2013 to 3.5 percent, from 3.6 percent, on
Jan. 23 and forecast that the euro area will contract.  OPEC Cut  Brent traded at $118.72 a barrel on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange at 8:13 a.m. local time.  “There are some warning lights flashing on the economy at
the moment,” said  Filip Petersson , a commodities strategist at
SEB AB in Stockholm. “We have an oversupply on a global basis,
and there’s been about Europe again with its economic problems.
Oil prices seem overstretched generally, but we still need some
trigger to release the correction.”  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries trimmed
production by 100,000 barrels a day in January to 30.34 million
a day as lower output in Nigeria, the United Arab Emirates, Iran
and Libya countered an increase in  Saudi Arabia  and Kuwait,
according to the IEA. That still leaves the group’s output about
600,000 barrels a day higher than the average of 29.7 million
needed in the first quarter, the agency said.  OPEC’s unused production capacity increased to 3.63 million
barrels a day last month from 3.26 million in December, with
most of the spare output held in Saudi Arabia. Concern that a
terrorist attack last month at a gas facility in Algeria may
lead to further disruptions is preventing the additional spare
capacity from calming oil prices, the agency said.  Non-OPEC Output  The IEA boosted forecasts for supplies from producers
outside OPEC by 80,000 barrels a day amid stronger-than-expected
growth in North America.  Non-OPEC producers  such as the U.S.,
Canada and Brazil will bolster output by 1 million barrels a day
this year to 54.4 million, the report indicated.  The increase in non-OPEC supply and the cut in its global
demand forecast reduced the IEA’s estimate for the average
output OPEC will need to provide this year by 100,000 barrels a
day to 29.8 million.  OPEC yesterday raised its 2013 world demand estimate by
about the same amount as the IEA is lowering its own. That still
leaves the producer group’s assessment estimate of global
consumption about 1 million barrels a day lower than the IEA’s,
at 89.7 million.  Oil inventories in the world’s most industrialized nations
were 38.7 million barrels above their five-year average, the
biggest surplus since January 2011, after falling by less than
normal in December, according to the report. Stockpiles in the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development slipped 22
million barrels to 2.7 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Grant Smith  in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  