-- LightSquared Lawyer Says Lenders Settle on Exclusivity
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-02-13T22:42:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/lightsquared-lawyer-says-lenders-settle-on-exclusivity.html
LightSquared Inc. won permission to
remain in control of its bankruptcy through July 15 after
reaching a deal with lenders in a dispute over the matter.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Shelley Chapman  filed an order today
in Manhattan, New York allowing the company to enter into the
deal regarding its exclusivity period, during which it alone can
submit a restructuring plan. The plan must have lenders’ consent
or pay them in full, Matthew Barr, a lawyer for LightSquared,
Harbinger Capital Partners LLC’s broadband startup, said in
court.  “I very much appreciate all of your hard work,” Chapman
told the lawyers before submitting her order.  Attorneys for the lenders argued that  Philip Falcone ’s
Harbinger wasn’t making progress on developing a plan and was
keeping the company in bankruptcy for its own benefit. A hearing
on the dispute began on Jan. 31 and was postponed several times
to allow for settlement discussions.  LightSquared, a fledgling Reston, Virginia-based firm that
sought to establish a high-speed wireless network, filed for
bankruptcy protection in May after failing to win regulatory
approval of its system.  ‘Faulty’ Loan  Harbinger, Falcone’s New York-based hedge fund, had
invested about $3 billion in LightSquared and owned about 74
percent of it as of Jan. 27.  The lenders, owning $1.08 billion of secured debt in
affiliate LightSquared LP, also alleged that Harbinger misused
its control of the wireless-communications company. The group
asked the court for permission to sue Harbinger over an
allegedly faulty $263.8 million loan that they contend should be
characterized as an equity investment by the hedge-fund firm.  Harbinger contended that the company may be worth $7
billion to $12 billion, far in excess of its liabilities.
Lawyers for the lenders said those values are overstated because
the company hasn’t received Federal Communications Commission
approval for its system.  LightSquared filed for bankruptcy protection in May,
listing assets of $4.48 billion and liabilities totaling $2.29
billion. The company said it spent $4 billion developing a
satellite system that it couldn’t implement for lack of FCC
approval.  Harbinger acquired LightSquared in March 2010 for $1.05
billion in cash.  The bankruptcy case is In re LightSquared Inc., 12-12080,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in Manhattan at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  