-- Millennial Media Rises Ahead of Earnings: Washington Mover
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-02-13T21:34:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/millennial-media-rises-ahead-of-earnings-washington-mover.html
Millennial Media Inc.  rose the most
in eight weeks as the seller of advertising space on mobile
devices prepares to report earnings for a quarter that a Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC analyst said was “extremely robust.”  The  shares  climbed 6.3 percent to $12.52 at the close in
New York for their biggest daily gain since Dec. 18. They are
little changed this year, as the Russell 2000 Technology Index
has increased 8.4 percent.  Millennial plans to release fourth-quarter results Feb. 19.
 Richard Fetyko , an analyst with Janney Montgomery Scott in New
York, said in an interview today that mobile-ad prices grew by
“double-digit” percentages in the fourth quarter and that
demand hasn’t slackened this quarter, as it usually does.  “The feedback in terms of mobile ad budgets and spend
trends in the fourth quarter was that it was extremely robust,”
according to his discussions with mobile-ad exchanges and
Millennial’s competitors, Fetyko said. He  recommends  buying the
Baltimore-based company’s shares.  “It just sort of fits our thesis that 2013 is really
shaping up to be the inflection point in the mobile advertising
industry,” he said.  Fetyko said Millennial shares also may be reacting to an
AdAge Digital  report  on Feb. 11 that the company was in talks to
acquire Metaresolver, a closely held startup media buyer based
in San Francisco that targets mobile advertising. AdAge cited
unidentified executives close to the company.  Fetyko said he doesn’t know if the report is true. The
acquisition would make strategic sense, he said.  Max Nelson, a spokesman for Millennial, declined to comment
on the acquisition report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cecile Daurat at 
 cdaurat@bloomberg.net  