-- IMF Urges EU to Mull Banking Burden Sharing, System Risk
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2013-02-13T16:56:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/imf-urges-eu-to-mull-banking-burden-sharing-system-risk.html
The cost of bank failures in the
European Union should be spread wider, even to senior unsecured
bondholders, International Monetary Fund staff said today in a
report that also suggests a closer look at U.S. approaches to
systemic risk.  Shareholders and other creditors, potentially including
senior unsecured bondholders, generally should absorb losses
before taxpayers step in, IMF staff said. Today’s  report  called
on the EU to lay out “clear ex ante burden-sharing mechanisms”
as it builds a common system for supervising banks and for
handling failing lenders.  Bank bailouts might remain an option in an emergency, if
policy makers are faced with the prospect of bank runs, asset
fire sales or other contagion, staff said in the report, noting
that the U.S. already has such an emergency procedure in place.
At the same time, “systemic risk” triggers would need to
balance national and collective concerns.  The IMF staff said it may be “instructive” for the EU to
look at a U.S. law that allows regulators to override a
requirement to shut down banks with the “least cost” to
taxpayers. “Given evident moral hazard, the law sets a high bar
to invoke the exception,” the IMF staff said.  The Washington-based lender broadly welcomed EU efforts to
create a single supervisor within the euro area and overhaul its
procedures for handling troubled financial firms. The next
challenge will be following through on their commitments,
 Mahmood Pradhan , deputy director of the fund’s European
Department, said on a conference call with journalists.  Common Supervisor  “I would say that the implementation and continuing to
sustain progress in this area is probably the most important
aspect,” he said when asked about risks around the banking
union.  EU leaders decided last year to create a common euro-area
bank supervisor at the European Central Bank as part of efforts
to contain the sovereign debt crisis. The EU also raised the
prospect of offering banks direct aid from the 500 billion-euro
($672 billion) European Stability Mechanism as a way to break
the crisis cycle of banks and nations exacerbating each others’
borrowing woes.  The IMF said the EU needs to empower the ECB’s single
supervisory mechanism, address its implications for non-euro
nations, and make progress on how to handle failing banks.
Needed steps include creating resolution funds to absorb the
costs of individual bank failures, as well as plans for handling
broader problems.  Safety Nets  “Progress is required on all elements,” according to the
staff report. “Without common resolution and safety nets and
credible backstops, an SSM alone will do little to weaken
vicious sovereign-bank links.”  The IMF endorsed EU proposals that would require all
nations to have plans for handling resolution costs and deposit
insurance, paid for by assessments on the banking sector. These
funds would be in place to handle individual bank failures.  The ESM could take on direct aid powers as part of efforts
to “ensure frail, domestically systemic banks have adequate
capital, access to funding at a reasonable cost and positive
profits,” IMF staff said in the report.  The ESM is not set up to absorb losses and should be able
to exit any aid agreements speedily, albeit on a flexible
timetable, according to the report. “Fortunately, there are
unlikely to be large insolvent banks currently in most
economies.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  