-- Obama Swerves Back to the Center
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2013-02-13T19:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/in-state-of-the-union-obama-swerves-back-to-center-clive-crook.html
“Two acts in the same play.”
According to White House spokesman  Jay Carney , that’s how
President  Barack Obama  sees the  inaugural address  he delivered
on Jan. 21 and last night’s  State of the Union . If you ask me,
they were two different plays -- and since I didn’t much like
the first, I was glad the second was a new work.  The two events have different purposes, of course. The
inaugural is a celebration of democracy. It calls for vision,
inspiration, a sense of history and a measure of grandiosity.
For Obama, those things are like falling off a log. The State of
the Union should be more plodding -- a plainer statement of how
the vision will be advanced. That’s less the president’s thing.  This year, the shift between the two speeches was bigger
than usual. In the inaugural Obama was pointedly divisive. The
vision he described was one-dimensional. America stands for
 equality  and social justice, he argued, as indeed it does.
Liberty, limited government and reward for merit -- equally
vital to the American tradition -- scarcely got a mention.  He went out of his way to jab his opponents. He might as
well have called Republicans un-American. This was unworthy of
an inaugural address, when the president should speak to the
whole country and tell voters who supported the losing candidate
that the winner works for them, too.  Centrist Appeal  Last night’s State of the Union wasn’t divisive. It wasn’t
even all that liberal. Admittedly, the promised policies were
mostly variations on first-term themes -- support for
sophisticated manufacturing, clean energy, education reform,
infrastructure spending and so on. But Obama advanced them
modestly and in terms calculated to appeal to centrists.  Did you notice how for much of the speech Representative
 John Boehner , leader of the House Republicans, seated just
behind the president, felt constrained to applaud?  Obama sounded a Clintonian note when he said he wanted
smart government not big government. Before listing his
initiatives, he said they were fully paid for and wouldn’t add
“a single dime” to the deficit. Obviously, that was nonsense. He
was doing exactly what he ridiculed Republican presidential
candidate  Mitt Romney  for doing during the election campaign
last year. Romney said he would cut tax rates while maintaining
revenue, never saying how. Obama says he’ll increase spending
without adding to public borrowing, without saying how.  Still, the president implicitly recognized the limits to
activism, and I applaud him for that. The new measures would be
targeted, smart and (somehow) paid for. Dry and uninspiring this
approach may be, compared with the inaugural. The advantage is
that it can be pitched to people who aren’t true believers in a
progressive utopia.  In his inaugural, Obama said that Medicare and Social
Security “do not sap our initiative, they strengthen us.” (Who
but a vile Republican could think Medicare makes you weak?) Last
night he used the term “entitlement reform” -- calling it
necessary, mind you, rather than using it to heap contempt on
those who advocate it. For his benchmark on Medicare savings, he
cited (pinch me) the  Simpson-Bowles commission , exemplar of
centrist common sense on the budget, despised by hard-liners of
all kinds.  Last night, he needled Republicans only when his point was
incontestable and when he knew, as a result, that the country
would agree. For instance: “The greatest nation on Earth cannot
keep conducting its business by drifting from one manufactured
crisis to the next. Let’s agree, right here, right now, to keep
the people’s government open, pay our bills on time, and always
uphold the full faith and credit of the United States of
America.” That doesn’t seem too much to ask.  Bipartisan Initiative  On climate change, he applauded an earlier bipartisan
initiative led by Senator  John McCain , his Republican opponent
in the 2008 election, though the prospects for meaningful action
there seem limited. Not so on gun control and immigration, two
other leading themes, where the president sees a chance for
agreement. The commitment to start talks on a trade and
investment pact with the European Union will thrill the
Republicans’ business wing.  The only liberal red meat in the speech was the proposal to
raise the federal minimum wage. I’m against it, because of the
risk that it will cost jobs. Subsidizing low wages is a good
idea for exactly the reasons the president mentioned in his
speech -- but not if you finance the subsidy with a tax on low-
wage employment, which is what, in effect, a minimum wage does.
(Also, if you’re going to have minimum wages, let the states set
them: Costs vary too much across the country for a federal
minimum to make sense.)  Despite this morsel, progressives may feel anxious at the
revival of interest in bipartisan approaches and the diminished
ambition compared with the inaugural. I call these grounds for
hope. Maybe, here and there, gridlock can be broken.  The key will be another topic broached by the president
last night: “bipartisan comprehensive tax reform that encourages
job creation and brings down the deficit.” The president is
right that stabilizing (never mind reducing) the public debt
will call for additional revenues, despite the fiscal-cliff deal
which raised the top tax rate on the highest-paid 1 percent of
households. A dime or two of extra revenue will also be needed
to pay for his mostly sensible spending proposals.  A base-broadening reform, as advocated (again) by Simpson-
Bowles, is the way to do this, and with a sufficiently bold plan
rates could be cut at the same time. This could be where Obama
is headed, and it’s an approach that Republicans have been open
to before.  Let’s not get carried away. Washington is still broken. The
State of the Union hasn’t mended it. But it hasn’t made matters
worse, and these days that’s a kind of triumph.  ( Clive Crook  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
 Clive Crook  at  ccrook5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 