-- India Lenders to Claim $1.6 Billion From Kingfisher Airlines
-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 2013-02-13T12:45:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/indian-banks-start-process-to-claim-1-6-billion-from-kingfisher.html
Indian lenders to grounded carrier
 Kingfisher Airlines Ltd.  will start proceedings to recover as
much as 85 billion rupees ($1.6 billion) of dues after founder
 Vijay Mallya  failed to pay the  debt , the biggest creditor said.  “We have decided to start recovery process on the loans to
Kingfisher,”  Shyamal Acharya , deputy managing director of State
Bank of India, said in an interview to Bloomberg TV India today.
“Banks have already given Mallya enough time to repay.”  State Bank of India  has set aside the 15 billion rupees it
lent to Kingfisher following Mallya’s inability to repay the
borrowings. Liquor tycoon Mallya in November 2011 pledged to
raise money through new loans, a rights offer and property sales
to pay debt and avoid grounding of the carrier. Kingfisher
stopped operations from Oct. 1 last year.  The options for the lender “include going to the Debt
Recovery Tribunal and enforcing pledge of movables,” said
Rabindra Junjhunwala, Mumbai-based partner at law firm Khaitan &
Co. The law also “gives certain classes of secured creditors
additional remedies such as attachment and sale of the secured
assets of a borrower, and taking over management of defaulting
borrower.”  Kingfisher  fell 5 percent to 10.55 rupees at the close in
Mumbai trading. The shares have plummeted 61 percent in the past
year.  United Breweries Holdings Ltd. , which owns  stakes  in the
group’s six companies, plunged 10 percent to 70.20 rupees, the
stock’s biggest decline since October 2008.  McDowell Holdings Ltd. fell 8.2 percent to 58.95 rupees.
 Mangalore Chemicals & Fertilizers Ltd . advanced 4.9 percent,
while United Spirits Ltd., which is being acquired by Diageo
Plc, dropped 4.9 percent to 1,861.85 rupees.  No Operations  Prakash Mirpuri , spokesman for Kingfisher, declined to
comment on the lenders move to start the recovery of dues.  “Under the current laws in India it could take lenders as
much as two years to recover the loan to Kingfisher,”  Vishal Narnolia , Mumbai-based banking analyst at SMC Global Securities
Ltd., said. “The recovery will boost banks’ profits as many of
them have already set aside a bad loan buffer to cover it.”  The airline  reported  net loss widened to 7.55 billion
rupees in the three months ended Dec. 31, from 4.4 billion
rupees a year earlier. The carrier didn’t have any sales from
operations, compared with 13.7 billion rupees a year earlier.  Kingfisher also defaulted on payments to fuel suppliers and
airports as losses widened amid rising fuel costs and price
competition. Kingfisher, which was No. 2 in India by market
share in 2011, had  net debt  of 85 billion rupees, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anto Antony in Mumbai at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  