-- India Said to Seek $6.5 Billion Share Sales to Curb Budget Gap
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h a   S i n g h
-- 2013-02-13T06:36:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/india-said-to-seek-6-5-billion-share-sales-to-curb-budget-gap.html
India plans to raise 350 billion
rupees ($6.5 billion) next fiscal year by selling shares in
state-owned companies as the nation strives to pare its budget
deficit, two officials with knowledge of the proposal said.  The government aims to sell stakes in companies including
 Coal India Ltd. ,  Indian Oil Corp. ,  Engineers India Ltd. ,  Power
Grid Corp. of India Ltd.  and  Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd. , the
Finance Ministry officials said, asking not to be identified as
the plan isn’t public.  The offering for Kolkata-based Coal India, the world’s
largest producer, will be the biggest and will seek to raise 200
billion rupees, both officials said.  Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram, who unveils the
budget on Feb. 28, has pledged to bolster the state’s revenues
and curb spending to narrow the widest  budget deficit  in major
emerging nations. The government has raised about 72 percent of
its 300 billion rupee target for share sales in the fiscal year
through March 2013.  Chidambaram has vowed to contain the excess of expenditure
over receipts at 5.3 percent of gross domestic product in the 12
months that began April 1, and at 4.8 percent next financial
year. The government partially freed diesel prices from state
control last month to limit fuel subsidies.  Officials are trying to avert a credit-rating downgrade,
after Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings said in 2012 that they
may demote India to junk status because of the fiscal gap and
the current-account deficit.  Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s government has raised about
215 billion rupees this financial year from share sales,
including about 115 billion rupees by disposing of a stake in
power company  NTPC Ltd.  last week.  The Reserve Bank of India has signaled that narrowing the
budget gap is pivotal to boosting room for interest-rate cuts to
aid growth.  Inflation  exceeding 7 percent has limited it to two
reductions in borrowing costs since the start of April last year.  India’s statistics agency predicts GDP will climb 5 percent
in the 12 months through March, the weakest pace in a decade,
after a moderation in investment and a drop in exports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Siddhartha Singh  in New Delhi at 
 ssingh283@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net  