-- India’s Rupee Rises From Near Four-Week Low as Exports Increase
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-02-13T11:46:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/india-s-rupee-near-four-week-low-on-signs-of-deepening-slowdown.html
India’s rupee strengthened from its
lowest level in almost four weeks after provisional data showed
exports increased in January for the first time in nine months.  Merchandise shipments climbed 0.8 percent from a year
earlier and imports advanced 6.1 percent, leaving a trade
deficit of $20 billion, Director General of Foreign Trade Anup
Pujari said in New Delhi today. Central bank Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao  said Feb. 11 the nation’s current-account deficit in
the year through March may be “significantly higher” than a
record 4.2 percent of gross domestic product in the previous
period.  The rise in exports was the “silver lining,” analysts at
Barclays Plc, including Singapore-based Nick Verdi, wrote in a
research report today. “We do not see significant potential for
rupee appreciation” as the current-account gap will stay large,
they wrote.  The rupee rose 0.1 percent to 53.82 per dollar in Mumbai
after falling as much as 0.1 percent earlier, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It touched 54.1075 yesterday, the lowest
level since Jan. 18. The currency will drop to 54 in 12 months,
Barclays predicts. One-month implied volatility, a gauge of
expected moves in the exchange rate used to price options, fell
one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 9.27 percent.  G-20 Meeting  Investors are also cautious before a two-day meeting of the
Group of 20 nations in Moscow starting Feb. 15, Verdi said by
phone today. The G-20, which includes the Group of Seven
developed economies and emerging markets such as Brazil, China
and India, may not favor currency appreciation as global trade
is still at an early stage of recovery, according to Barclays.  The G-7 released a statement in London yesterday, seeking
to soothe mounting fears of a currency war with a pledge to
avoid devaluing their exchange rates in the pursuit of stronger
economic growth.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards traded at 54.81 per
dollar, compared with 55.02 yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Offshore non-deliverable contracts were
at 54.64 versus 54.82. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell
assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are
settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  