-- India May Drop Helicopter Order If Corruption Uncovered
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2013-02-13T06:23:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/india-may-cancel-753-million-helicopter-deal-if-graft-uncovered.html
India may cancel a $753 million deal
for helicopters agreed with Italy’s  Finmeccanica SpA  if
investigators uncover evidence of corrupt payments, the
country’s defense minister said today.  Finmeccanica Chief Executive Officer  Giuseppe Orsi  was
arrested yesterday on accusations of corruption and tax fraud as
authorities probe alleged illegal payments tied to the contract
for the sale of 12 AW101 helicopters to India in 2010. The
company has denied wrongdoing.  “We will take the strongest possible action under Indian
law, we will not spare anybody” if graft is shown to have
occurred at any stage, Defense Minister  A.K. Antony  said at a
press conference in New Delhi. “We will not tolerate corruption
in defense deals.”  India’s arms-buying has been slowed by officials’
sensitivities over corruption scandals in previous purchases,
including one that helped drive the Congress Party of Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh  to defeat in 1989 elections. In March
last year, retired army chief General V.K. Singh said he was
offered 140 million rupees ($2.6 million) if he approved the
purchase of 600 vehicles he considered sub-standard.  Evidence against Orsi is “inconsistent” and the arrest is
“unjustified,” the CEO’s lawyer,  Ennio Amodio , said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday.  The Times of India newspaper reported today that three of
the helicopters had been delivered to India, while three more
are due to arrive by June. The entire fleet should be complete
by March 2014, the paper said.  Federal Probe  Antony, whose personal probity helped him win charge of the
department that has been plagued by scandals, said that he had
been unable to contact the Italian government and prosecutors
for details of why Orsi was arrested.  “I have no information in my hands,” Antony said. “I
have tried to get the details but nothing is available to me.”  Antony yesterday asked India’s Central Bureau of
Investigation to probe the helicopter sale. The contract signed
with AgustaWestland includes “specific contractual provisions
against bribery and the use of undue influence as well as an
integrity pact,” the defense ministry said in an e-mailed
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  