-- Intel Said to Hire Spencer Stuart to Seek Otellini Successor
-- B y   I a n   K i n g   a n d   C a r o l   H y m o w i t z
-- 2013-02-13T21:11:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/intel-said-to-hire-spencer-stuart-in-hunt-for-otellini-successor.html
Intel Corp.  hired Spencer Stuart &
Associates Ltd. to help find its next chief executive officer,
people with knowledge of the matter said, a sign that the
chipmaker is seriously considering external candidates.  Potential internal successors to CEO  Paul Otellini , who
will retire in May, include Chief Operating Officer  Brian Krzanich , Chief Financial Officer  Stacy Smith  and software head
 Renee James , according to two other people, who asked not to be
named because the search is private. Intel, founded in 1968, has
never filled its top post with an executive from outside.  “No candidate has the inside track, and the board will be
equally looking at internal and external candidates,”  Laura Anderson , a spokeswoman for Santa Clara, California-based Intel,
said yesterday. “The decision process will be the same for all
of them. A board would not be fulfilling its responsibilities if
it did not seek insight on talent available inside and outside
the company.”  Robert Marston, a spokesman for Spencer Stuart, declined to
comment.  Otellini said on Dec. 6 that picking an insider was the
most likely outcome. The company was leaning toward internal
candidates initially, people with knowledge of the matter said
in November.  Given the company’s failure to make headway in mobile
computing under current management, someone from the outside may
prove more alluring to investors in an era when consumers are
favoring handheld devices over the personal computers that make
up most of Intel’s business.  Succession Plan  When Intel announced Otellini’s planned departure in
November, it also named three executive vice presidents:
Krzanich, Smith and James, marking them as the primary
candidates to lead the 44-year-old company.  Intel climbed less than 1 percent to $21.25 at the close in
New York. The stock declined 15 percent last year, compared with
a 13 percent increase in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.
 Qualcomm Inc. , which in November surpassed Intel to become the
biggest U.S. chipmaker by market capitalization, also gained 13
percent in 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carol Hymowitz in New York at 
 chymowitz1@bloomberg.net ;
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  