-- Investors Bet Tappan Zee Won’t Upend N.Y. Thruway: Muni Credit
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t   a n d   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2013-02-13T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/investors-bet-tappan-zee-won-t-upend-n-y-thruway-muni-credit.html
New York  Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli 
says Governor  Andrew Cuomo’s  effort to construct the biggest
project in the 62-year history of the Thruway Authority lacks a
financing plan. Investors are betting there will be one.  The agency, which is building a new $3.9 billion Tappan Zee
Bridge across the Hudson River, last week borrowed $500 million
from  Barclays Plc.  The authority’s first private placement may
“reduce the level of disclosure provided to investors in the
municipal market,” DiNapoli’s office said in a letter approving
the sale. The comptroller also said the authority has “no
definitive financing plan” for the bridge.  The private sale of bond-anticipation notes saved more than
$1 million on underwriting costs and allowed the authority to
pay the first $125 million bill due this month, said  Dan Weiller , a spokesman. The agency says it can’t release a
financial plan for the bridge until it knows the size of a
federal loan it applied for last year.  Building the bridge, which Cuomo compares in scope to the
19th century construction of the Erie Canal, would double the
$3.2 billion debt load of the operator of the longest U.S. toll
road. Yet investors are showing confidence in the agency’s
finances, as the extra yield on some of its debt dropped by
about 7 percent this year.  ‘Essential System’  “The authority is an essential system of roadways that has
provided ample protection and historically favorable debt
coverage,” said  Chris Fornal , transportation credit-research
analyst at New York-based BlackRock Inc., which manages about
$109 billion in munis. “I would anticipate management making
the appropriate steps to maintain their historical coverage.”  The Tappan Zee, one of the largest infrastructure projects
in the U.S., is a priority for Cuomo. Since Republican Governor
 George Pataki  announced plans to replace the 57-year-old span in
1999, New York has held 430 public meetings and considered 150
concepts, spending $88 million, Cuomo has said.  Construction is expected to start in a few months, a
little more than a year after Cuomo issued a request for
proposals. The 55-year-old Democrat says that shows how he’s
reduced perennial dysfunction in Albany, the state capital.  Narrowing Spread  The Thruway Authority typically finances projects with
bonds backed by revenue from cars and trucks. Those securities
are rated A+ by Standard & Poor’s, the fifth-highest investment-
grade rating.  Since Jan. 1, the difference in the average yield, or
spread, between the agency’s revenue bonds callable in 2022 and
top-rated debt maturing in nine years has narrowed to about 1.53
percentage points as of Feb. 11 from about 1.65 percentage
points, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Still, the lack of a financing plan may give some investors
pause, said  Dan Solender , director at Lord Abbett & Co. in
Jersey City, New Jersey, which manages about $19.5 billion,
including some Thruway debt.  “It doesn’t stop you, but you’d definitely look for a
concession in the yield,” Solender said in a telephone
interview. “Doing a private sale may not be the best way to get
started.”  The private placement cost $175,000, compared with $1.6
million the authority paid on a public sale of $868 million in
short-term notes in June 2011, Kate Gurnett, a DiNapoli
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. The authority is paying 0.19
percent interest on the notes, which are due in July, about the
same as the yield for top-rated bonds due in 12 months, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Negative Watch  To shore up its finances, the agency is planning to save
about $20 million in its $978 million budget by firing 234 of
its almost 3,000 employees, Executive Director  Thomas Madison 
said in a Feb. 1 radio interview. In his $136.5 billion budget,
Cuomo proposed giving the authority $85 million annually, in
part by having the state take over the cost of police patrols on
the 570-mile (917-kilometer) system.  S&P and Moody’s Investors Service put the authority on a
negative watch in June before it sold $1.1 billion in long-term
bonds to pay off short-term debt, with S&P citing uncertainty
about financing a new Tappan Zee.  Much of the bridge plan, including the authority’s ability
to pay off the $500 million sold privately Feb. 7, hinges on the
size of a federal loan, which it expects to get, Madison said.
The authority applied for $2.9 billion under the Transportation
Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act in September.  “We’re borrowing in anticipation of what we believe will
be a long-term, low-interest loan from the federal government
that we’re still in the process of negotiating,” Madison said
in the radio interview.  Toll Bonds  Cuomo has said most of the construction would be paid for
by selling toll-backed bonds. Fees on the Tappan Zee may triple
to $14 from the current $5 for cash customers when the new span
opens, which is projected for 2016, state officials have said.  If the U.S. loan doesn’t come through by July 31, when the
$500 million is due, the state can roll the debt into longer-
term bonds. That may threaten its ability to meet a debt-ratio
coverage of 1.2, the minimum required by its bond resolution,
Joe Pezzimenti, an S&P analyst, said in an interview before the
private placement.  “We are waiting to get more details in terms of a plan of
finance for the Tappan Zee and what their tolling strategy will
be moving forward, which will allow them to address the ongoing
capital needs of the rest of the system in addition to replacing
the Tappan Zee Bridge,” Pezzimenti said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Freeman Klopott  in Albany, New York, at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net ;
 Martin Z. Braun  in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  