-- Irish Town Lives Up to Motto as Horse-Meat Scandal Spreads
-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y   a n d   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 2013-02-13T17:15:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/irish-town-lives-up-to-motto-as-horse-meat-scandal-goes-european.html
“Be at the center,” is the motto
of the Irish town of Ballybay. As the scandal over horse meat
masquerading as beef gallops across Europe, its founders may not
have realized how true that would turn out.  An inspection last month found frozen hamburgers made by
 Silvercrest Foods , the town’s biggest employer, contained 29
percent horse meat. Production was halted and Tesco Plc, the
U.K.’s largest retailer, dropped Silvercrest as a supplier.  “This is just a small place and now people from all over
are associating the area with horse meat,” said Evelyn Steen,
standing on her farm in Ballybay as she prepared to tend her 40
cattle. “We’re very annoyed by it all. It’s terrible.”  As the scope of the contamination unfolds, the global and
opaque nature of the food chain is being exposed to European
consumers like never before. The U.K. Food Standards Agency
raided meat plants in West Yorkshire and Wales yesterday as part
of the investigation. Irish Agriculture Minister  Simon Coveney 
said the scandal is a Europe-wide issue involving fraud.  Six French supermarket companies including Carrefour SA
withdrew some products made by  Findus Group Ltd . this week after
tests showed some beef lasagna included horse meat. Tesco
apologized to customers on Feb. 11 after finding horse DNA in
its discount spaghetti Bolognese the company said was made in a
factory that also produced foods for Findus.  “It highlights the fragility of the international supply
chain,” said  Bryan Roberts , an analyst at Kantar Retail in
London. “The mind boggles at the complexity of it all.”  Supply Network  The horse traces in the foods Silvercrest had been shipping
is linked to raw material imported from Poland, the Irish
government said. The Findus ready meals labeled as beef-based
and containing horse were manufactured at a Luxembourg factory
owned by French company Comigel, France’s consumer and anti-
fraud office DGCCRF reported on Feb. 9.  Comigel’s meat supplier was Spanghero SAS. It had bought
the frozen meat from a Cypriot trader that in turn sub-
contracted a Dutch trader who sourced the meat from a
slaughterhouse and a meat packer in Romania, according to the
DGCCRF. Romanian Prime Minister  Victor Ponta  has said there was
no evidence of wrongdoing at Romanian companies.  “As time goes on, the more obvious is that this is a
European problem that involves a whole series of countries,”
Coveney told broadcaster RTE yesterday. “It was because of the
vigilance of our testing and control regime in Ireland that what
is now a pan European problem was exposed.”  Equine History  Meanwhile, for the 1,000 or so residents in Ballybay,
County Monaghan, close to the border with Northern Ireland, the
attention has been as surprising as it has been unwelcome.  In a past life, Ballybay was a horse trading center. During
the First World War, a local family produced as many as 300
horses a week, much of them sold to the British Army, and the
town thrived as blacksmiths, saddle and harness makers moved to
the area, according to  the town’s website .  Yet the 18th century town became known more as a center of
the Irish linen industry, and now is more of stop-off point for
bird watchers drawn to the local lakes. One resident at least
reckons he may benefit from the horse-meat scandal.  “We’ve been here 30 years,” said Ciaran Traynor, 46, a
butcher at Quinn’s shop on Ballybay’s main street. “People here
know where our beef comes from, that it is what we say it is and
they trust us. It could be good for us.”  ‘No Joke’  Ireland’s food safety authority found horse DNA in the
Silvercrest frozen beef burgers on Jan. 15. The company’s
parent, County Louth-based ABP, suspended all production at the
facility two days later. The investigation is continuing.  A second meat plant in county Monaghan was found to have
traces of horse in some of its products, the Agriculture
Ministry said in a statement on Feb. 5.  The  Silvercrest plant  with its painted steel sits opposite
a graveyard at the northern-edge of Ballybay overlooking the
town’s main street. A spokeswoman for ABP declined to comment on
the future of the facility, which employs 112 people.  A few hundred yards away, Latvian immigrant Artis Alksnis
leans against the wall of his barber’s shop smoking a cigarette.
He opened the business a few months ago.  “When I heard this, I thought maybe it was a joke about
the horse meat,” said Alksnis. “But it’s no joke. We rely on
that factory. It employs a lot of people. Business is quiet
already, if it stops, it will be very bad for the town. People
will think it is a horse-meat town.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Colm Heatley  in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dara Doyle at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net  