-- Israel Natural Gas Lines Seeks $1 Billion for Pipelines Funding
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-02-13T23:45:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/israel-natural-gas-lines-seeks-1-billion-for-pipelines-funding.html
Israel Natural Gas Lines Ltd.  is
considering selling bonds and partnering with foreign companies
to fund a $1 billion infrastructure project as the nation seeks
to become energy independent, Chairman  Ron Chaimovski  said.  The state-owned company is looking to issue euro-
denominated bonds among other options including dollar notes to
raise the cash by 2015, Chaimovski said in an interview at
Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York yesterday. INGL, as the
company is known, previously sold debt yielding as much as 4.5
percent maturing in 8 1/2 to 10 years in a local private
placement, he said.  Israeli gas exploration companies and Houston-based  Noble
Energy Inc.  have discovered enough gas under the Mediterranean
Sea over the past three years to supply the country’s needs for
150 years. The Tamar and Dalit fields are scheduled to start
production this year, with output at the Leviathan field, the
world’s largest find of its kind in a decade, starting three
years later.  “It’s not enough to find the gas,” said Chaimovski, who
is in New York to meet investors. “We can’t afford to make
mistakes. We’re a young company, and that’s why we are seeking
partnership with people with the experience to help us.”  The Bank of Israel  raised  its 2013 economic growth forecast
for the nation to 3.8 percent in December, updating its outlook
to include natural gas production. That month  Woodside Petroleum
Ltd. , Australia’s second-largest oil and gas producer, said it
would pay as much as $2.3 billion for a 30 percent stake in the
Leviathan field.  ‘Trustful Partners’  Delek Group Ltd., which has stakes in the Leviathan field
through two units, advanced 1.6 percent to 950 shekels yesterday
in Tel Aviv, the highest price since December 2010. The stock
 added  22 percent last year, beating the 7.2 percent return of
the TA-100 index.  Avner Oil Exploration LLP , a subsidiary of
Delek, slipped 0.1 percent to 2.52 shekels.  On the New York Mercantile Exchange, gas futures for March
delivery rose 2.4 percent to $3.306 per million British thermal
units. Prices were up 36 percent from a year ago.  INGL is working on other natural gas projects that could
cost as much as $15 million to fund, Chaimovski said. About two-
thirds of that would be spent on a terminal to export gas to
Middle East neighbors, Asia and Europe, he said.  “Export is essential to bring investors,” Chaimovski
said. “There’s no way the government can spend $10 billion, and
this will have to be done with large and trustful partners.”  INGL also plans to start construction this year of a
maritime grid in the Mediterranean where developers can lease
space and have pipelines transport the gas for them. Another
project under way is a storage solution for the gas, he said.  The company is in talks to have its bonds listed on the Tel
Aviv Stock Exchange as soon as this year, and an equity listing
may follow, Chaimovski said.  Chaimovski was the Israeli Economic Minister to North
America from 1998 to 2001 and also served in the country’s navy.
He co-founded  Argyle Security Inc.  and served as its co-chief
executive officer from 2005 to 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  