-- J&J Feared Metal Backlash Would Hurt Hip Sales, Jury Told
-- B y   M a u r i c e   P o s s l e y   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-02-13T23:51:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/j-j-feared-metal-ion-backlash-would-hurt-hip-sales-jury-told.html
Three years before  Johnson &
Johnson ’s DePuy unit recalled its chromium and cobalt hip
implants, company marketers feared the backlash over metal ion
debris in patients, a jury in Los Angeles was told.  A DePuy marketing executive, Randall Kilburn, testified
today in California state court at the first of 10,000 lawsuits
to go to trial over the ASR hips, which J&J withdrew in August
2010 when their failure rate reached 12 percent. Kilburn was
asked about a meeting in July 2007 in Chicago, where the
marketing team discussed several hip devices.  At that meeting, the sales force saw a PowerPoint
presentation titled: “What scares us the most in the year
ahead?” Of the nine items listed, the first was: “Metal ion
backlash.” Others included industry consolidation, price
pressure and Japan.  Jurors are weighing the lawsuit of Loren Kransky, 65, who
claims the ASR hip was defectively designed and the company
failed to warn of risks. Kransky’s lawsuit and many others claim
that the shallow design of the hip cup, in which a metal ball
sitting atop the femur rotates, led to the shedding of metal
ions in surrounding tissue and bloodstream.  J&J, the world’s  largest  seller of health-care products,
denies it designed the ASR defectively or that it led to
dangerous levels of metal ions. J&J, based in New Brunswick, New
Jersey, says it properly warned of the risks. Analysts say the
lawsuits could cost the company billions of dollars to resolve.  Kransky attorney  Brian Panish  asked Kilburn whether he
considered metal ion backlash a threat.  ‘Many Threats’  “Yes, it’s one of many threats,” Kilburn said.  Panish asked Kilburn about complaints from surgeons who
claimed the ASR was failing. In 2008, DePuy also weighed a
redesign of the ASR cup, which is slightly less than a half-
circle, and included a groove to help a surgeon place the device
in the hip. Kransky’s lawyers and experts say that design led to
metal ions entering the bloodstream.  “Weren’t you aware that surgeons complained that the ASR
shed excessive debris?” Panish asked.  “When it was malpositioned, yes,” Kilburn said.  “That would be a red flag, wouldn’t it?” Panish asked.  “Yes, when it was malpositioned,” the witness said.  ‘Game On!’  Jurors saw a video of a 2008 sales meeting in New Orleans
where Kilburn announced that the ASR hip division had increased
sales in 2007 by $62 million over the previous year. At one
point he said to the audience, “Game on!”  “This was after you had received many pieces of
information raising red flags?,” Panish asked. Kilburn agreed.  “You were still out there - game on - selling as much as
you could,” Panish said. Kilburn agreed.  Panish showed e-mails from March 2008 discussing public
ridicule by Derek McMinn, a British orthopedic surgeon, of the
ASR and its designers. In 1997, London-based Smith & Nephew Plc
introduced McMinn’s Birmingham Hip Replacement.  That device advanced metal-on-metal designs of the 1960s
and 1970s that had fallen out of favor as metal-on-polyethylene
grew popular. DePuy began selling a similar device, the ASR Hip
Resurfacing System, outside the U.S. in 2003. Both devices used
an alloy of cobalt and chromium.  DePuy engineer Graham Isaac wrote in an e-mail that McMinn
gave a speech to the British Hip Society and attacked
competitors, while “his main vitriol was reserved for ASR.”
McMinn, Isaac wrote, “implied that the testing of ASR was both
incompetent and biased.”  ‘Shaking With Rage’  Isaac said that the lead surgeon designer of the ASR,
 Thomas Schmalzried , “was almost shaking with rage.”  “We should be flattered as we are obviously seen as the
main threat,” Isaac wrote.  Marketing executive  Paul Berman  wrote four days later to
Schmalzried and another surgeon designer, Thomas Vail.  “Good to know the Society generally didn’t give credence
to what McMinn was saying,” Berman wrote. “It certainly is
baffling that they continue to give him air time. I suppose it
is somewhat like Brittany Spears…nobody really respects her, but
there is a lot of morbid curiosity,” an apparent reference to
pop singer  Britney Spears . “I am confident that McMinn will
continue to dig his own grave here in the U.S.,” Berman wrote.  Berman wrote to Schmalzried that he got 10 calls after
“McMinn’s little performance at Hip Society.”  “We now have some surgeons asking what is wrong with
ASR,” he wrote. “While McMinn may not have come across as
credible, some surgeons certainly listened to him. A position
statement will really help our sales force deflect the mess he
created.”  Avoid Rebuttal  Schmalzried wrote that the ASR board preferred to avoid
publicly rebutting McMinn.  Jurors saw an Isaac e-mail from April 30, 2008. He said
clinical data comparing the ASR and BHR showed the DePuy device
in some conditions was subject to “extreme metal ion levels.”  After the data appeared in medical journals, it had “the
potential to seriously affect our business,” Isaac wrote.  “We need to discuss this at the earliest possible
opportunity as I believe it means that we need to start any ASR
upgrade sooner than our previous plans had suggested,” he said.  No upgrade was done. Jurors heard testimony this week about
a 2011 internal DePuy study showing 35.8 percent of ASR hips
failed within 4.57 years, requiring replacement or revision
surgeries.  The case is Kransky v. DePuy, BC456086, California Superior
Court, Los Angeles County (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Maurice Possley  in Los Angeles Superior Court at
 mauricepossley@gmail.com ;
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 