-- Jefferson County Settles Claim Held by School Bondholder
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   M a r g a r e t   N e w k i r k
-- 2013-02-14T16:37:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/jefferson-county-settles-claim-held-by-school-bondholder.html
Jefferson County,  Alabama , will
settle a bankruptcy claim held by school-system bondholder  Depfa
Bank Plc , that will save the county about $1 million a year, a
county commissioner said.  The county and the bank will sign the agreement to reduce
the interest rate on about $162 million, County Commissioner
 Jimmie Stephens , who heads the commission’s finance committee,
said yesterday in a phone interview. Commissioners approved the
arrangement today without discussion.  The settlement is one of three signed with creditors so far
in the case, Stephens said. It won’t affect the continuing
battle between the county and sewer warrant holders owed more
than $3 billion.  “All of these deal with general fund or special revenue
debt and none with our sewer debt,” Stephens said. “We need
our sewer creditors to be begin some realistic negotiations to
move forward.”  The deal on the school warrants “shows our willingness to
get things done, to everyone’s benefit, the county’s and the
creditors,” Stephens said.  Of the $814 million in unpaid school warrants, the debt
held by Depfa had the highest interest rate, County Manager  Tony Petelos  said.  Jefferson County filed the biggest U.S. municipal
bankruptcy in 2011 after a deal with sewer warrant holders fell
apart. Since then, the county and the sewer warrant holders have
been fighting in bankruptcy court.  The case is In re Jefferson County, 11-05736, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Alabama (Birmingham).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Newkirk in Atlanta  at 
 mnewkirk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  