-- Joussen Asks TUI Owners for More Patience After Two Lost Decades
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-02-13T09:34:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/joussen-asks-tui-owners-for-more-patience-after-two-lost-decades.html
Friedrich Joussen , TUI AG’s incoming
chief executive officer, is asking shareholders for patience
before he outlines plans to give shareholders a return from
Europe’s largest travel company.  “Allow me a few more months to complete my program for
TUI,” Joussen said in the text of a speech handed to
journalists before the start of the shareholder meeting today in
Hanover, Germany. “We will have a very close look at each
individual area of TUI. I have no patience if a part of our
company does not deliver the right performance.”  Investors share the 49-year-old’s anxiety as he takes the
helm today from  Michael Frenzel . The 65-year-old lawyer headed
the company for 19 years, turning an industrial conglomerate
into Europe’s largest tourism company, while failing to generate
value for shareholders.  Shares of TUI have lost about 35 percent under Frenzel,
while Germany’s MDAX benchmark index for medium-sized companies
rose more than fivefold. TUI has paid a cash dividend only once
in the past six years, and suffered net losses in three of the
years.  “The sole reign of Mr. Frenzel has anything but done TUI
good,”  Ingo Speich , a fund manager at Union Investment in
Frankfurt, said at the meeting today. “His era was a regency of
demise. For shareholders, it was two lost decades.”  TUI’s pension liabilities are “a ticking time bomb,”
Speich said.  Joussen said while he is still fine-tuning the details of
TUI’s strategy, he will develop the company’s strengths and may
not spend much time on its weaknesses, without elaborating. He
seeks a more efficient and transparent structure, he said.  Unit Scrutiny  In the four months since his appointment to the management
board, Joussen scrutinized the company’s tour operations,
airlines, hotels and cruises businesses, he told shareholders
today. TUI Chief Financial Officer  Horst Baier  reiterated the
company is committed to selling its remaining stake in Hapag
Lloyd, Europe’s fourth-largest container line.  TUI today reported its biggest first-quarter loss in four
years, while confirming its outlook for fiscal 2013. Hotel
operations will generate more profit this year than planned,
while the company’s cruise operations will see earnings decline.  The shares fell as much as 2.6 percent to 8.13 euros in
Frankfurt today. They traded at 8.17 euros at 10:28 a.m. for a
market value of 2.01 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  