-- Kabel Lures Vodafone as Malone Takes Eyes Off Germany
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-02-14T08:07:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/kabel-lures-vodafone-as-malone-takes-eyes-off-germany.html
Kabel Deutschland Holding AG , whose
stock has more than tripled since its debut three years ago,
would give  Vodafone Group Plc  instant access to more cable
households in Germany than the footprint  Liberty Global Inc .
spent the past decade trying to build up.  Vodafone is considering a bid for Germany’s top cable
operator, with a market value of more than 6 billion euros ($8
billion), a person familiar with the matter said, asking not to
be identified because the matter is private. A deal would be the
second major purchase of a cable provider this year, after
Liberty Global agreed to buy the U.K.’s  Virgin Media Inc . for
$16 billion.  Inheriting assets that previously belonged to Germany’s
former phone monopoly  Deutsche Telekom AG , Kabel Deutschland
would give a new owner 8.5 million paying households, topping
Liberty Global’s 7 million, and potential customers for combined
fixed-lines, mobile and TV subscriptions in Europe’s biggest
telecommunications market.  Vodafone is responding to “the threat of cable becoming a
disruptive player in the mobile market,” said  Matthew Bloxham ,
an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in London. “A cable asset
enhances their product line-up for the area that Kabel
Deutschland covers, which is about a third of German homes that
they can deliver full triple-play to.”  Vodafone fell 0.7 percent to 170.50 pence at 8:05 a.m. in
London and Kabel Deutschland declined 0.6 percent to 68.77 euros
in Frankfurt.  Rental Fees  If the deal is approved by competition watchdogs, Newbury,
England-based Vodafone could also avoid paying rental fees on
copper lines to Deutsche Telekom, according to  Andrew Hogley , a
London-based analyst at Espirito Santo Investment Bank.  Germany’s cable TV grid was first deployed in 1982 by the
country’s Federal Post Office, which was later privatized and
split up into what became Deutsche Post AG, Deutsche Postbank AG
and Deutsche Telekom. Prompted by the European Union competition
authority, the latter broke up the network and sold its
components.  Over the last 10 years, Germany’s cable companies have
added Internet and phone services and began grabbing market
share from Internet providers. Kabel Deutschland has also begun
offering wireless services, further trespassing into the domain
of traditional phone carriers.  A 5.5 billion-euro bid by  John Malone ’s Liberty Media Corp.
for the assets which were to become Kabel Deutschland was
rejected by regulators in 2002. A group including Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., Apax Partners and Providence Equity Partners then
acquired the business for less than half that amount.  Lower Spending  Kabel Deutschland, led by Chief Executive Officer  Adrian von Hammerstein , has lagged behind many of its European peers in
selling services that go beyond its basic TV product. Its
average revenue per user was 15.7 euros in the quarter ended
September 30, compared with 40.4 euros at Dutch cable provider
 Ziggo NV  and the equivalent of 61.6 euros at Virgin Media,
according to Bloomberg Industries.  Vodafone first made a bid for Kabel Deutschland three years
ago, people familiar with the matter have said, and the company
denied it at the time. BC Partners Ltd., CVC Capital Partners
Ltd. and Bain Capital LLC also submitted offers, the people
said. Kabel Deutschland eventually opted for an IPO.  The shares have tripled from the 22-euro IPO price and they
jumped 8.8 percent yesterday to close at a record 69.17 euros.
Liberty Global has more than doubled over the three-year period,
while Vodafone gained 16 percent.  End Game  Liberty Global has meanwhile gathered other large cable
assets in Germany to form Unitymedia KabelBW, the second-largest
operator in the country. Its geographical areas have little
overlap with Kabel Deutschland.  Liberty Global Chief Financial Officer  Charles Bracken  said
in November that he expected German regulators to eventually
approve future acquisitions of cable assets.  Vodafone’s plan crosses aspirations Malone may have had to
win control of Kabel Deutschland after all.  “For Kabel Deutschland, they’ve always seen a combination
with Unity and KabelBW as the end game,” Espirito Santo analyst
Hogley said. Now, Vodafone is “trying to do it while Liberty
Global is otherwise engaged.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  