-- King Signals U.K. May Need Weak Pound While Backing G-7 Comments
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-02-13T14:06:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/king-signals-u-k-may-need-weak-pound-while-backing-g-7-comments.html
Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King 
said the U.K.’s recovery may require a weaker pound,
highlighting communication challenges for central bank chiefs as
the Group of Seven works to prevent a global currency war.  “One way or another we clearly have to change the relative
price of the goods that we produce at home compared with those
abroad,” King said in London today. The remarks came after he
said yesterday’s G-7 statement reflected a “longstanding”
pledge “that we will not engage in unilateral intervention” on
currencies.  The G-7 roiled currency markets by issuing a statement on
exchange rates that was subsequently subject to conflicting
interpretations by members. King, among the signatories of the
statement, is also trying to revive an economy struggling to
build momentum even after unprecedented monetary stimulus.  “He’s trying to tread a fine line between preventing
global currency wars while suggesting that there’s perhaps scope
for the pound to fall further in response to economic
fundamentals,” said  Vicky Redwood , an economist at Capital
Economics Ltd. in London and a former central bank official.
“For now it sounds like the MPC doesn’t condone intervention
but would like to see a weaker pound.”  Prime Minister  David Cameron  said today that “no one wants
to see a string of competitive devaluations.” Sterling has
dropped about 25 percent on a trade-weighted basis since the
start of 2007.  “I don’t believe that you can depreciate your way to
growth whatever country you are,” he said in Parliament. “What
you should do is use the benefit when there is a structural
change, to make sure you increase your competitiveness.”  External Demand  King said the U.K. needs “to persuade people to buy more
from us and for us to be willing to buy less from overseas to
improve the trade deficit, and see that boost from external
demand.” Britain must “adjust to a new path.”  He said the BOE still has the capacity to support the
economy with  monetary policy , and any central bank action will
have an impact on currencies.  “When countries take measures to use monetary stimulus to
support growth in their economy, then there will be exchange-
rate consequences, and they should be allowed to flow through,”
King said. “The G-7 statement is meant to underpin the world of
floating exchange rates.”  The governor also said the statement emphasized that
intervention would be done only in a “concerted, collective way
when there was a disorderly market position.” Still, he noted
the confusion in the aftermath of the statement.  “When I put my name to that statement yesterday, I didn’t
expect that other so-called officials will be out there giving
unattributable briefings, both before and after the statement,
trying to claim that the statement said what it didn’t say,” he
said.  “It’s not black and white because the exchange rate is one
of the channels for monetary policy,” said  Simon Hayes , an
economist at Barclays Plc in London. “You’re treading something
of a tightrope whenever you talk about the currency from the
position of a central bank.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  