-- King Inflation Stance Backed by CBI Amid Elusive Recovery
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-02-13T09:28:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/king-inflation-stance-backed-by-cbi-as-recovery-proves-elusive.html
The Bank of England is right to look
through accelerating inflation to help the economy, the
country’s biggest business lobby group said, backing Governor
 Mervyn King ’s view that tighter policy now would be a mistake.  As King prepares to publish the Bank of England’s latest
economic outlook in its Inflation Report in London today, the
Confederation of British Industry cut its 2013 growth projection
to 1 percent from 1.4 percent and forecast that the central bank
will keep policy unchanged until near the end of 2014.  The CBI endorsement follows a BOE statement last week that
its current stance is “appropriate” as the recovery struggles
to build momentum.  Inflation  has been above the central bank’s
target for more than three years, and policy makers’ forecast
for a further acceleration means King won’t see it return to the
goal before he retires in less than five months.  “It’s not domestic inflation, it’s not inflation wholly
under our control,” CBI Director-General  John Cridland  said in
an interview. “The MPC have taken the right judgement to date
to keep interest rates low. That’s the right prescription and
one that I hope will continue” through 2013 and 2014, he said.  The pound fell 0.1 percent against the dollar today, and
traded at $1.5647 as of 9:24 a.m. in London.  Data yesterday showed inflation held at 2.7 percent in
January, while  input prices  surged the most in five months as
crude oil costs rose. The BOE said on Feb. 7 that it is right to
“look through” this period of above-target price growth as
attempting to get it back to target sooner “would risk
derailing the recovery.”  Bond Purchases  That same day, the Monetary Policy Committee kept its
target for  bond purchases  at 375 billion pounds ($587 billion)
and held its key interest rate at a  record low 0.5 percent .  King will publish the new projections at a press conference
at 10:30 a.m. in London and a majority of economists in a
Bloomberg News survey said the MPC will raise both its 2013 and
2014 inflation forecasts. They also said it will leave its  gross
domestic product  projections unchanged.  In November, the BOE said that inflation would slow to
about 2.3 percent at the end of this year and 1.8 percent at
end-2014, below its goal.  The Inflation Report press conference will be King’s
penultimate one before he retires at the end of June. He will be
succeeded by Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney , who last week
commended the BOE’s stance, saying the MPC has “quite
appropriately” looked through a series of inflation shocks.  Pay Growth  With inflation showing little sign of cooling, that’s
keeping a squeeze on consumers. A report today from VocaLink
Ltd. showed take-home pay growth at Britain’s largest publicly
traded companies was at 0.7 percent in the quarter through
January, up from 0.4 percent in the previous three months.
That’s less than the 2 percent growth recorded in the same
period a year ago.  The CBI said in its report that the economy will expand 0.3
percent this quarter, avoiding a triple-dip recession after
shrinking by the same amount in the last three months of 2012.  “I’m cautiously optimistic we’ll now see a bit of a
pickup,” Cridland said. “The winter as a whole hasn’t been
very spectacular, and I don’t think a pickup will feel
spectacular, but it’s better than going in the wrong
direction.”  While the global economy and financial conditions have
improved as tensions related to the euro-area debt crisis eased,
the risks to the U.K. growth outlook remain “on the downside,”
Cridland said.  AAA Rating  The CBI director-general called on the government to boost
infrastructure investment to promote a rebalancing of the
economy, though he continued to support its policy for tackling
the deficit. While the retention of the U.K.’s AAA credit rating
is “very important” for business confidence, it would not
“have enormous impact” if Britain lost it, Cridland said.  “Markets will take a judgment about the British economy
based on whether they think the government is over time dealing
with the structural deficit,” he said. “The evidence is, it’s
taking us longer, it’s proving harder because of the headwinds,
but we are dealing with the structural deficit and that’s what
is really important.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  