-- Aussie Rises as Gain in Consumer Confidence Pares Rate-Cut Bets
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2013-02-13T05:54:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/kiwi-relative-value-at-5-1-2-year-high-as-intervention-ruled-out.html
Australia’s dollar rose against most
major peers after a gauge of consumer confidence in the nation
surged to a two-year high, easing expectations the central bank
will cut interest rates.  The so-called Aussie extended a rebound from the lowest in
four months as swaps traders reduced bets that the Reserve Bank
of Australia will lower the overnight cash-rate target from 3
percent in March. The value of New Zealand’s dollar relative to
its major trading partners climbed to a 5 1/2-year high as the
nation’s Finance Minister Bill English said he won’t spend
taxpayer money on intervention.  “The odds of a RBA rate cut in March have now slipped a
little bit” after the release of the consumer-confidence
survey, said  Jonathan Cavenagh , a currency strategist in
Singapore at Westpac Banking Corp., Australia’s second-largest
lender by market value. “The near-term risks are that it can
head higher,” he said, referring to the Australian dollar.  Australia’s currency gained 0.4 percent to $1.0343 as of
4:52 p.m. in Sydney after touching $1.0227 yesterday, the lowest
since Oct. 15. The New Zealand dollar, known as the kiwi, added
0.2 percent to 84.17 U.S cents following a 0.6 percent advance.  Westpac and Melbourne Institute said today that their gauge
for Australian consumer confidence jumped 7.7 percent in
February to the highest level since December 2010.  Traders see a 41 percent chance that the RBA will cut the
benchmark rate to 2.75 percent next month, according to data on
overnight-index swaps compiled by Bloomberg. There was a 51
percent probability yesterday.  Australia’s three-year government note fell for a second
day, with yields climbing six basis points, or 0.06 percentage
point, to 2.84 percent. New Zealand’s two-year interest-rate
swap touched 2.96 percent, matching the highest since April 17.  G-7 Statement  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s trade-weighted  exchange rate index 
for New Zealand’s dollar climbed to 147.6 yesterday, the highest
since July 2007 and is up 4.4 percent from a year ago.  Finance ministers and central-bank governors from Group of
Seven nations released a statement yesterday, reaffirming their
commitment to market-determined currency rates. Officials from
the G-20, which includes the G-7 and emerging economies such as
Brazil, China and India, meet in Moscow on Feb. 15-16.  ‘Huge Risks’  “We’re not willing to take the kind of huge risks involved
in large scale speculation in the exchange rate with taxpayer
dollars,” English told reporters in Wellington. “To influence
the exchange rate you need a couple of hundred billion U.S. in
the bank so they take you seriously. We’d be out in the war zone
with a peashooter.”  A gauge of homes prices climbed 7.2 percent last month from
a year earlier, the Real Estate Institute of New Zealand said in
a statement yesterday. The  index  reached an all-time high in
November and remained near that level in January.  “An important part of the reason why the kiwi tries so
strong is because New Zealand’s economy is relatively better
than many other economies,” said  Joseph Capurso , a currency
strategist in Sydney at Commonwealth Bank of Australia, the
nation’s largest lender. “It’s very unlikely that the New
Zealand government or the RBNZ will intervene to push down the
kiwi dollar,” he said, referring the nation’s central bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  