-- Kremlin Said to Seek China Fund for Moscow Exchange’s IPO
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n ,   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2013-02-13T14:33:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/kremlin-said-to-lure-china-wealth-fund-into-moscow-exchange-ipo.html
The Kremlin’s sovereign wealth fund
is seeking to bring China’s $480 billion counterpart into the
Moscow Exchange’s initial public offering as an anchor investor,
three people with knowledge of the matter said.  Chengdong Investment Corp., a unit of CIC International
Co., may get as much as 25 percent of the shares being offered
in the IPO, which the Moscow Exchange plans to complete
tomorrow, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because the information isn’t public.  The exchange, which runs Russia’s 50-stock  Micex  and
dollar-based RTS indexes, said Feb. 4 it plans to raise at least
15 billion rubles ($500 million) selling shares on its own
platform, after marketing the IPO in the U.S., Europe and
Russia. A sale at the top of its range of 55 to 63 rubles per
new and existing shares would value the company at $4.6 billion.  “This just means that the situation is hopeless,”  Alex Debelov , chief investment officer at Moscow-based Third Rome
LLC, which manages about $400 million in Russian assets, said by
phone. “It’s terrible that the country’s main exchange has to
get its private equity fund to attract a Chinese fund. The
demand for the IPO seems to not be so great.”  China Investment Corp. and the Russian Direct Investment
Fund, which owns an undisclosed number of shares in the Moscow
Exchange,  set up  a $2 billion fund in June, seeking returns of
at least 20 percent on investments in companies benefitting from
growing trade between the two countries, according to the RDIF’s
 website . Seventy percent of that will be invested in Russia, the
rest in China.  International Investments  CIC has been ramping up international investments to help
boost returns on the country’s foreign exchange reserves and
meet the nation’s thirst for resources. It may acquire a stake
in German carmaker  Daimler AG , the People’s Daily said on its
website Jan 7. In November, it teamed up with VTB Capital to buy
OAO Uralkali’s convertible bonds, which can be converted into a
12.5 percent share of the world’s largest potash producer.  Nobody authorized to comment to the media could be reached
at CIC in Beijing due to public holidays there. Quinn Martin, a
spokesman for the exchange, and  Maria Medvedeva , a spokeswoman
for the RDIF, both declined to comment.  The exchange has already received at least $300 million of
orders from domestic and international investors, two of the
people said.  Alexei Ulyukayev , first deputy chairman of Russia’s
central bank, told reporters today he expects the exchange’s IPO
book to be fully covered.  Boost Capital  The exchange plans to use its share of the IPO proceeds to
upgrade its trading system and to boost the capital of its
clearing subsidiary, the National Clearing Center. The exchange,
which handles most stock and bond trading in Russia, will start
working with Euroclear Bank SA, operator of the world’s largest
bond-settlement system, on trading ruble-denominated government
debt next month, according to Euroclear.  Russia’s central bank is the largest shareholder in the
exchange, with 22 percent, followed by state-run OAO Sberbank
with 9.6 percent, state development bank VEB with 8 percent,
according to the exchange’s website as of Jan. 16.  BlackRock
Inc. , the world’s biggest asset manager, bought shares in the
Moscow Exchange from RDIF in September, the fund said Sept. 28,
without providing details. RDIF had 2.7 percent in July. The
European Bank for Reconstruction and Development has a 5.8
percent stake in the exchange, while VTB Group holds 5.6
percent.  Lock Up  About 60 percent of the stock offered in the IPO will be
sold by existing shareholders through Micex Cyprus Ltd., while
the rest will be sold as new shares via Micex-Finance LLC,
according to the exchange. Following the IPO, shareholders will
be subject to a 180-day lock-up period.  Credit Suisse Group AG , JPMorgan Chase & Co., Sberbank CIB
and VTB Capital are organizing the IPO.  Deutsche Bank AG ,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,  Morgan Stanley , Renaissance Capital
and UBS AG’s investment bank are joint bookrunners.  The Micex Index advanced 1.7 percent to 1,537.65, a one-
week high, at 6:32 p.m. in Moscow today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Corcoran  in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net 
 Ilya Arkhipov  in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net 
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  