-- Krona Soars as Riksbank Avoids Currency Wars: Stockholm Mover
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2013-02-13T10:36:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/krona-soars-as-riksbank-avoids-currency-wars-stockholm-mover.html
Sweden’s krona soared to a four-
month high against the euro after the Riksbank refrained from
monetary easing to weaken the currency.  The krona rose as much as 0.9 percent versus the euro to
8.4918, its strongest level since Oct. 2, and traded at 8.5022
as of 11:33 a.m. in Stockholm. It gained as much as 1 percent
against the dollar to 6.3031, its strongest since Feb. 4. The
gains left the krona the best-performing major currency today
against the euro, the dollar and the yen.  “While the Riksbank’s decision was not that surprising, we
are still a bit surprised that the krona strength doesn’t seem
to have any significance for the Riksbank,”  Carl Hammer , chief
currency strategist at SEB AB in Stockholm, said.  As finance ministers from the Group of 20 gather this
weekend in Moscow, focus will be on the threat of international
currency wars in a battle to boost trade competitiveness through
weaker exchange rates. Swedish Finance Minister  Anders Borg  said
last month that the Riksbank’s policy of not cutting rates
further is propping up the krona and preventing the exchange
rate from helping sustain a recovery.  The central bank left its repo rate unchanged today at 1
percent, a decision that was predicted by 13 of the 22
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The rest forecast a cut to
0.75 percent.  Most forecasters estimate Sweden’s economy will recover
this year as jobs growth boosts confidence that Europe has
surfaced from the worst of its fiscal turmoil. The European
Central Bank kept its benchmark rate unchanged last week at a
record low of 0.75 percent, after euro-area economic confidence
rose to a seven-month high in January, easing pressure on the
bank to lower rates further.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  