-- NCAA Sued for Barring Coach With Non-Violent Conviction
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-02-14T02:34:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/ncaa-sued-for-barring-coach-with-non-violent-conviction.html
The National Collegiate Athletic
Association was accused of discriminating against black coaches
for changing a policy that had allowed someone with a non-
violent felony conviction to coach at high school events.  Dominic Hardie, a 35-year-old basketball coach from
Houston, filed a complaint today in federal court in San Diego.
He seeks a court order preventing the NCAA from implementing the
felony-exclusion policy and a ruling that it violates the U.S.
Civil Rights Act.  Hardie said that under a 2011 change in policy, he’s no
longer allowed to coach at high school tournaments where the
NCAA allows college recruiters to attend.  Hardie, who is black, pleaded guilty in 2001 to possession
with intent to distribute less than a gram of cocaine, according
to the complaint. He said he received five years of probation
and fully rehabilitated himself. He coaches two high-school age
girls’ basketball teams that travel to NCAA-certified
tournaments around the U.S., he said in the complaint.  “A well-respected coach is irrationally being denied the
ability to coach in tournaments that are exceptionally important
to his players’ futures,” Hardie’s lawyer, Dan Chambers, said
in a statement.  Until last year, Hardie had been able to coach at those
tournaments, according to the filing. The NCAA’s 2011 policy
change has a discriminatory impact because black people are
overrepresented in the criminal justice process, representing 38
percent of the convicted felons in the U.S. while accounting for
12 percent of the population in 2006, Hardie said.  “Our policy has been unsuccessfully challenged in court
previously,” NCAA spokesman Bob Williams said in an e-mailed
statement. “We continue to believe convicted felons should not
have access to youth at events where NCAA coaches are
participating and we will vigorously defend this lawsuit.”  The case is Hardie v. NCAA, 13-00346, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of California (San Diego).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edvard Pettersson  in the Los Angeles federal courthouse at  epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 