-- New Zealand Manufacturing Expansion Fastest Since May
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-02-13T22:35:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/new-zealand-manufacturing-expansion-fastest-since-may.html
New Zealand’s manufacturing industry
expanded at the fastest pace since May, led by demand for
materials to rebuild earthquake damage in Christchurch. The
currency rose to the highest in more than a week.  The  Performance of Manufacturing index  rose to 55.2 in
January from a revised 50.4 in December, Business New Zealand
and the Bank of New Zealand Ltd. said in a statement released in
Wellington. An index over 50 means manufacturing is expanding.  Manufacturing output is being buoyed by demand for cement
and wallboard in the South Island city of Christchurch, where
rebuilding is under way after earthquakes in 2010-11 devastated
the nation’s third-biggest city. Central bank Governor  Graeme Wheeler  has said he is monitoring reconstruction progress to
gauge emerging pressure on resources and inflation.  “Over the coming years, we anticipate the positive flow-on
effects of a stronger construction sector to broaden to other
parts of the manufacturing sector,”  Doug Steel , economist at
Bank of New Zealand Ltd., said in the statement.  New Zealand’s dollar rose to 84.52 U.S. cents at 11:35 a.m.
in Wellington, from 84.15 cents immediately before the release.
It touched 84.63 cents, the strongest since Feb. 5.  The gains in manufacturing were led by production and new
orders, today’s report showed. Employment in the industry
remained in contraction. The challenge for manufacturers in 2013
is slowing demand in Australia, which buys about a quarter of
all New Zealand’s exports, Steel said.  “Comments regarding the Australian market from respondents
have been getting increasingly downbeat,” he said. “In January
they turned decidedly sour.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  