-- New House Transportation Head Defends U.S. Highway Role
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2013-02-13T21:13:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/new-house-transportation-head-defends-u-s-highway-role.html
House Transportation and
Infrastructure Committee Chairman  Bill Shuster  used his first
hearing to head off fellow Republicans who support paring the
U.S. highway program and sending more money to the states.  The Pennsylvania congressman said the U.S. interstate
highway system Republican President  Dwight Eisenhower  started in
the 1950s “allowed massive economic growth for two
generations.”  “An efficient national transportation network allows
businesses to lower their costs,” said Shuster, who took charge
of the transportation panel in the new Congress that began last
month. “It allows American businesses to be competitive in a
global marketplace.”  Congress is implementing a two-year plan for building
highways, bridges and mass transit, and Shuster has said a top
priority for his committee is finding enough money to pay for
more. He may face opposition from some Republicans who oppose
higher taxes, favor a smaller federal government and say states
can build highways more quickly and for less money.  Former Pennsylvania Governor  Edward Rendell , co-chairman of
 Building America’s Future , an advocacy group favoring more
government funding for transportation, water systems and the
electrical grid, said the U.S. spends about 1.7 percent of its
gross domestic product on transportation, compared with 9
percent in China and 4 percent in Canada.  U.S. spending in inflation-adjusted dollars is at the same
level as 1968, when the economy was far smaller, said Rendell, a
Democrat. New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , founder and owner of
Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP, is another of the group’s
co-chairmen.  Higher Taxes  Across town, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce held its first-
ever infrastructure summit, which brought together executives
from companies including Cargill Inc.,  JetBlue Airways Corp.  and
 American Electric Power Co.  to advocate for more spending.  U.S. companies realize they need the transportation system
to stay globally competitive, and they’re willing to pay for it,
said  Thomas Donohue , chief executive officer of the Chamber, the
world’s largest business federation.  “We are willing to provide the one thing this problem
needs the most: money,” Donohue said, citing support among
shippers and truckers for higher fuel taxes.  Gasoline Tax  The simplest, most straightforward way to fix the Highway
Trust Fund is to raise the 18.4 cents-per-gallon federal
gasoline tax, Donohue said. That levy was last raised in 1993,
during the administration of  Bill Clinton .  A rise in the gasoline tax was the Chamber’s position over
the past two years, when the idea failed to win support in the
House, the Senate or with President  Barack Obama ’s
administration.  In his State of the Union speech yesterday, Obama renewed a
proposal to spend $50 billion for “urgent” infrastructure
repairs. Republican lawmakers in November rejected the plan
during negotiations on averting year-end tax increases and
spending. It was at least the fourth time since that 2010 Obama
had proposed an immediate $50 billion for infrastructure,
including his budget proposals for the 2012 and 2013 fiscal
years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  