-- New Issues Drop 75% to Six-Year Low on Rupee Rates: India Credit
-- B y   A n o o p   A g r a w a l
-- 2013-02-14T06:56:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/new-issues-drop-75-to-six-year-low-on-rupee-rates-india-credit.html
Rupee debt sales slumped 75 percent
this year as LIC Housing Finance Ltd. and Rural Electrification
Ltd. delay issuance saying borrowing costs are too high even
after the central bank cut rates for the first time since April.  Indian companies raised 73 billion rupees ($1.4 billion)
selling bonds, the slowest start in six years, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The average five-year  yield  on AAA corporate
notes fell 24 basis points this year to 8.88 percent, according
to indicative levels compiled by Bloomberg. Similar costs fell
12 points in  China  4.85 percent. The Reserve Bank of India cut
its benchmark  rate  to 7.75 percent from 8 percent on Jan. 29  “A significant downward shift in the rate curve is
imperative before we can step up our fundraising,”  V.K. Sharma ,
Mumbai-based chief executive at LIC Housing Finance Ltd.,
India’s fifth-biggest borrower this year, said in a telephone
interview yesterday. “It’s difficult to sustain borrowing even
after the recent monetary easing.”  Credit Suisse Group AG and Barclays Plc predict the RBI
will cut the repurchase rate by at least another 50 basis points
this year to boost the slowest economic growth in a decade. Axis
Bank Ltd., India’s biggest underwriter, and SBI Capital Markets
Ltd. say reductions may help debt sales surpass the record 2.4
trillion rupees in 2012. Chinese issuers raised 4.18 trillion
yuan last year ($671 billion), data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Further Drop’  “Issuers are expecting a further drop in borrowing costs
before they go all aggressive with debt sales,”  Ashish Sable ,
vice president at SBI Capital Markets, said in a telephone
interview from Mumbai yesterday. “A noteworthy reduction in
costs hasn’t happened.”  The RBI will lower the repurchase rate to 7.5 percent this
quarter and to 7 percent by year-end, according to the median
forecast of 26 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The
central bank next reviews monetary policy on March 19.  Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao  on Jan. 29 cut the central bank’s
inflation estimate for March to 6.8 percent from 7.5 percent and
signaled there’s room, “albeit limited,” to ease policy
further to boost growth. Asia’s third-largest economy may expand
5 percent in the fiscal year ending March, the government said
Feb. 7, the slowest pace since 2003.  India’s benchmark wholesale price index  rose  6.62 percent
in January from a year earlier, the least since November 2009,
the government said in a statement in New Delhi today. The
median of 34 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey was 6.98
percent.  LIC Housing  The highest borrowing costs among Asia’s major economies
are prompting borrowers to sell shares locally and tap overseas
bond markets for funds.  LIC Housing raised 6.3 billion rupees selling shares last
month, more than double the 3 billion rupees of bonds India’s
second-largest non-bank mortgage lender sold this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Mumbai-based
company sold 139.25 billion rupees of debt last year. Issuers
led by  Reliance Industries Ltd. , the nation’s biggest company by
market value, sold $2.44 billion of overseas notes in January,
the most in 21 months, the data show.  Average dollar  yields  for Indian issuers fell to an all-
time low of 3.95 percent on Jan. 10 and are 23 basis points
lower this year at 4.03 percent, HSBC Holdings Plc indexes show.  The yield on the  benchmark  10-year government debt has
declined 24 basis points, or 0.24 percentage point this year,
narrowing the  difference  over similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries
to 580 points yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
premium is the lowest since August 2011.  Rural Electrification  The yield on the 8.15 percent note due June 2022 fell four
baiss points to 7.81 percent as of 12:21 p.m. in Mumbai, while
the rupee weakened 0.1 percent to 53.8450 per dollar. Rupee-
denominated sovereign bonds returned 11.3 percent in the past
year, the most among Asia’s 10 biggest local-currency debt
markets followed by 10.2 percent of Philippines tracked by HSBC.  Rural Electrification is delaying ramping up bond sales as
it expects borrowing costs to fall further as Governor Subbarao
lowers interest rates to spur growth. India’s third-biggest
lender by market value to electricity projects sold 154.9
billion rupees of bonds last year and plans to boost issuance by
15 percent in 2013, according to  Ajeet Agarwal , director of
finance.  The company based in New Delhi sold 15 billion rupees of
bonds this year compared with 18 billion rupees in the same
period a year earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Not Encouraged’  “Even after the cut in the repurchase rate last month,
companies like ours seeking large amounts are not encouraged yet
with the present level of borrowing costs,” Agarwal, said in a
telephone interview. “Rates should drop significantly to
reflect the macro-economic situation, and that will prompt a
surge in fundraising all across.”  The cost of insuring State Bank of India debt, considered a
proxy for the sovereign, for five years against non-payment slid
26 basis points this year to 200 yesterday, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. Credit-default
swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a borrower fail to
adhere to its debt agreements.  “Companies are looking to jumpstart their business
activities, and one certain way to do that is to lower interest
costs,”  Parthasarathi Mukherjee , treasurer at Axis Bank,
India’s biggest debt arranger in 2012, said in a telephone
interview yesterday. “Softer rates would boost demand from
investors as well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  