-- No Shirakawa Eulogies as JGBs Look Beyond Weak BOJ
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o ,   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   S h i g e k i   N o z a w a
-- 2013-02-13T04:07:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/no-shirakawa-eulogies-as-jgbs-look-beyond-weak-boj.html
The Bank of Japan under Governor
 Masaaki Shirakawa’s  successor may buy longer bonds and cut the
deposit rate paid to lenders as it steps up efforts to defeat
deflation, the bond market is signaling.  Yields on two-year notes are at 0.025 percent, the lowest
since September 2002 and below the 0.1 percent interest that
banks get from deposits held at the BOJ. Five-year  yields  were
at a record 0.135 percent today amid speculation new leaders at
the BOJ will extend the maturity of debt the bank buys. Those
yields compare with 0.26 percent and 0.87 percent respectively
for two- and five-year Treasuries.  Shirakawa, who last week announced he will step down on
March 19 before his term ends, has opposed cutting the deposit
rate and has limited the central bank’s buying of government
notes to those maturing in up to three years.  Koichi Hamada , who
advises the prime minister on monetary policy, said in December
the BOJ’s stimulus is “very weak.” The central bank will
probably keep policy unchanged at a two-day meeting starting
today, according to a survey of economists by Bloomberg News.  “Financial markets are reflecting the possibility that
there will be a paradigm change in BOJ policy,” said  Kazuhiko Ogata , the Tokyo-based chief economist for Japan at Credit
Agricole SA, one of the 24 primary dealers obliged to bid at
Japan’s debt auctions. “The bond market is pricing in a
probable purchase of longer-maturity debt as well as a cut in
the deposit rate.”  BOJ Contenders  Shirakawa and his fellow board members doubled the BOJ’s 1
percent  inflation target  on Jan. 22, heeding pressure from Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe. The bank said it will buy 10 trillion yen
($107 billion) of Japanese treasury bills and 2 trillion yen of
government notes every month  starting  next year. While it’s
similar to the open-ended asset buying of the Federal Reserve,
the BOJ’s program doesn’t increase indefinitely in size like
that of its U.S. counterpart.  Contenders to replace Shirakawa probably include  Takatoshi Ito , an economist at Tokyo University who served in the Ministry
of Finance, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Others
on the short-list may be  Kazumasa Iwata , a former BOJ deputy
governor;  Kikuo Iwata , an economics professor at Gakushuin
University; and Asian Development Bank President  Haruhiko Kuroda , Bank of America Merrill Lynch analysts, led by Tokyo-
based chief economist  Masayuki Kichikawa , wrote in a research
note on Feb. 6.  Kuroda said in an interview with Bloomberg on Feb. 11 that
Japan has “substantial room for monetary easing.” He declined
to comment on whether he was a contender to lead the BOJ.  BOJ Responsible  Shirakawa will step down at the same time as two deputies,
about three weeks before his term expires. Abe will propose
nominees for the next governor and deputies all at the same
time, he said in parliament on Feb. 7. Deflation is a monetary
phenomenon and the central bank is responsible for reaching the
2 percent inflation target, Abe said.  The new governor “has to show how different he is from
Shirakawa,” said  Tadashi Matsukawa , who helps oversee the
equivalent of $1.5 billion as head of fixed-income investment at
PineBridge Investments Japan Co. in Tokyo. “I see a more than
50 percent chance that the BOJ will buy longer-maturity debt.”  Elsewhere in domestic credit markets, Japan Expressway
Holding & Debt Repayment Agency sold 30 billion yen of 20-year,
1.757 percent bonds guaranteed by the government, SMBC Nikko
Securities Inc. said yesterday in a statement.  Debt Auction  The extra yield that investors demand to hold Japanese
corporate notes rather than sovereign debt was at 43 basis
points yesterday, matching the lowest since October, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. The spread for
company bonds worldwide was 148, the data show.  A Ministry of Finance sale of its longest maturity debt
today signaled decreasing investor appetite for securities that
are the most sensitive to changes in interest-rate expectations.  The ministry’s auction of 399 billion yen of 40-year debt
attracted bids valued at 3.51 times the amount available, down
from 3.82 at the previous offering in November.  The yen has tumbled almost 13 percent against the dollar
since Nov. 15 when Abe called for “unlimited” money printing
by the central bank to end deflation. Elections a month later
elevated him to Japan’s highest office. It touched 94.46 per
U.S. currency this week, the weakest since May 2010, and was at
93.06 at 1:01 p.m. in Tokyo.  When the central bank first introduced its asset-purchase
program as a temporary measure on Oct. 5, 2010, Shirakawa said
the BOJ was paying “ maximum attention ” to avoid the impression
that it was financing government debt.  Market Liquidity  The governor  reiterated his position  last month that
cutting the deposit rate would substantially reduce liquidity in
money markets and prevent financial companies from raising funds
when necessary.  Japanese government bonds maturing in more than a year have
 returned  9.6 percent since Shirakawa took the helm of the Bank
of Japan in April 2008, data compiled by the European Federation
of Financial Analyst Societies and Bloomberg show.  JGBs posted gains of as much as 28 percent during each term
of Shirakawa’s predecessors since 1994, the data show, while
Japan’s  consumer price gains  haven’t been 2 percent or more
since 1991.  The  benchmark  10-year bond yield was at 0.74 percent today,
5 1/2 basis points, or 0.055 percentage point, from the 9 1/2-
year low touched in December.  “What the BOJ has done to end deflation wasn’t effective
and not enough,” said  Takeshi Minami , chief economist in Tokyo
at Norinchukin Research Institute Co. “The bond market is still
skeptical that there will be 2 percent inflation. Otherwise,
it’s impossible for the 10-year yield to stay below 0.8
percent.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeki Nozawa in Tokyo at 
 snozawa1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  