-- North Korea Nuclear Test Forces Park to Amend Engagement
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-02-13T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/north-korea-nuclear-test-forces-park-to-amend-engagement.html
North Korea’s third nuclear test is
forcing incoming South Korean President  Park Geun Hye  to
reconsider pledges of engagement with a hostile neighbor that is
improving its atomic weapons technology.  The totalitarian regime on Feb. 12 tested “a smaller and
light” nuclear device, the official Korean Central News Agency
said, two months after firing a long-range rocket. The bomb had
a yield of 6 to 7 kilotons, South Korea’s Defense Ministry
estimated, bigger than the previous two detonations.  Park’s offers to expand economic cooperation with North
Korea and hold a summit with its leader  Kim Jong Un  have gone
unanswered ahead of her Feb. 25 inauguration. Kim’s emphasis on
reinforcing a military-first policy threatens to squash an
opportunity to expand South Korean participation in a joint
industrial zone that aids his impoverished economy.  “Engaging in dialogue with North Korea is important but
national security is more important,” said Yoo Ho Yeol,
professor of North Korean studies at Korea University in Seoul.
“Park must restructure her security agenda to implement
stronger punitive measures against the North.”  The incoming administration’s stance is “based on strong
deterrence, not one of appeasement,” Park said yesterday in a
meeting with her advisers, according to an e-mailed statement.
“There will be some changes to the policy but the general
framework won’t be altered, as it was formed with the
expectation that North Korea would act this way.”  Sanctions Backed  More than half of South Koreans support stronger sanctions
against North Korea, according to a Feb. 12 survey by Seoul-
based pollster Realmeter. Fifty-five percent of 500 respondents
backed responding to the atomic test with increased punitive
measures, while 37.6 percent preferred dialogue. The survey had
a margin of error of 4.4 percentage points.  Park condemned the test, saying her government wouldn’t
allow a nuclear-armed North Korea. The North previously
detonated atomic devices in 2006 and 2009.  During last year’s successful campaign, Park advocated
providing humanitarian aid to North Korea “independent of
political developments,” distancing herself from outgoing
President  Lee Myung Bak ’s policy of disengagement. She pledged
to help the North join global financial and trade groups, and to
promote foreign investment into the totalitarian state.  Park “has been talking about building trust and this
really throws cold water on that from the outset,” said  Lee Jung Hoon , a professor of international relations at Yonsei
University in Seoul.  ‘Major Debate’  South Korea suspended nearly all trade with North Korea in
May 2010, in response to the sinking of a naval ship that killed
46 sailors. The only remaining exchange is the joint industrial
complex in the North Korean border city of Gaeseong.  More than 120 South Korean companies including watchmaker
 Romanson Co.  and underwear manufacturer  Good People Co . employ
about 50,000 North Korean workers at the complex. Production
rose 17 percent in 2011, accounting for 99 percent of bilateral
trade, according to South Korea’s Unification Ministry.  “There is a major debate coming up when the new government
comes to develop policy,” said Hahm Chai Bong, president of
Asan Institute for Policy Studies in Seoul. “While there will
be people who continue to say that economic contact such as in
Gaeseong need to be preserved the nuclear test definitely makes
it more challenging for them to make that case.”  Park’s inauguration is one of several political transitions
taking place in Asia, where its two biggest economies -- Japan
and China -- are embroiled in a territorial dispute. Japanese
Prime Minister  Shinzo Abe  took office in December pledging to
boost defense spending and  Xi Jinping  is set to become president
of China next month.  ‘Decision Time’  China, North Korea’s biggest benefactor, warned Kim against
carrying out the test and Foreign Minister  Yang Jiechi  summoned
the North Korean ambassador to protest. China backed United
Nations Security Council sanctions against North Korea following
the December rocket launch, and Kim’s decision to go through
with the nuclear test highlights its limited influence.  “It’s decision time for Xi Jinping and the new leadership
in China,” Yonsei University’s Lee said. “Do you live with a
nuclear North Korea, basically accept it, or adopt policies to
really influence North Korea so that it will roll back its
nuclear weapons program?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net  