-- Norway’s Premier to Fight for Wealth Tax in Bid for Re-Election
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2013-02-13T13:20:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/norway-s-premier-to-fight-for-wealth-tax-in-bid-for-re-election.html
Norway’s Prime Minister  Jens Stoltenberg  is making taxing the rich a focal point as he tries
to overcome a deficit in the opinion polls seven months before
elections in western Europe’s biggest oil producer.  The 53-year-old premier today laid out his agenda and
lambasted the opposition’s plan to almost eliminate the nation’s
wealth tax.  “My task is to speak about our politics, about jobs,
education and health care and to show the differences because an
election is about choices,” the Labor Party leader told
reporters in Oslo. “It’s important whether we use many billion
kroner to abolish the wealth tax for the very richest people or
whether we use the money for schools and health care.”  The premier, hailed as the “father of the nation”
following his response to the July 22 terror attacks in 2011,
has seen his support dwindle as the terror response was
reassessed and the government was criticized for a hospital
overhaul and slow progress in building roads and railways. His
three-party coalition has also been hurt by an internal rift
over oil exploration in restricted areas off the environmentally
sensitive Lofoten islands as well as an unpopular cheese tariff.  Gloomy Polls  Polls show that Stoltenberg, who’s seeking an unprecedented
third consecutive term, may be ousted in September after eight
years in power. In 2009, he became the first leader in 16 years
to win re-election after steering the economy out of a recession
by tapping a record amount of the nation’s oil wealth.  According to a survey by broadcaster TV2 published on Feb.
11, Stoltenberg’s Labor Party and his coalition partners, the
Socialist Left and Center Party, would win 61 seats, compared
with 89 for the two largest opposition parties, the
Conservatives and the Progress Party. The Conservatives, who
have vowed to cut taxes and increase oil exploration, had 32.1
percent backing, compared with 28.7 percent for the Labor party.  The Conservatives yesterday proposed to reduce the wealth
tax to shield small businesses and home owners. The party plans
to cut the wealth tax to 0.5 percent from 1.1 percent and raise
the threshold to as much as 25 million kroner ($4.6 million)
from the current 870,000 kroner. The proposal will eliminate
wealth taxes for 99 percent of those that currently pay the
levy, the Conservatives said.  The premier said today at a party convention in Oslo that
he hasn’t given up on winning a third term.  ‘Within Reach’  “It’s fully possible to win the election,” Stoltenberg
told party members. “It’s absolutely within reach.”  The world’s fourth-richest nation per capita has so far
withstood the euro area’s debt crisis thanks to its oil wealth.
Record investment in its petroleum industry has fuelled demand
for workers, keeping  unemployment  at about 3 percent. Growth in
the mainland economy, which excludes oil, gas and shipping, is
estimated to slow to 3 percent in 2013 from 3.75 percent last
year, according to central bank forecasts. This compares with an
economic contraction of 0.3 percent in the 17-nation euro
region, according to European Central Bank forecasts.  A report today showed the economic expansion, excluding
oil, gas and shipping, slowed to 0.3 percent in the fourth
quarter from a revised 0.8 percent in the prior quarter, Oslo-
based Statistics Norway said.  The premier faced calls for his resignation last year after
a formal probe revealed the government’s failure to prevent the
2011 terror attacks, where  Anders Behring Breivik  bombed
Stoltenberg’s Oslo office, killing eight, and massacred 69
people at a summer camp of the Labor Party’s youth wing.  Breivik in August was sentenced to 21 years in prison with
an option to extend his term.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Josiane Kremer  in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  