-- Novartis Marrow Drug Fails to Win U.K. Agency Backing
-- B y   P h i l   S e r a f i n o
-- 2013-02-13T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/novartis-marrow-drug-fails-to-win-u-k-agency-backing.html
Novartis AG’s  $67,000-a-year drug to
treat symptoms of a rare blood cancer failed to win the backing
of the U.K.’s health-cost agency, which said the medicine’s
benefit didn’t justify the expense.  Novartis’s economic model for Jakavi overstated the drug’s
benefit relative to the cost, the National Institute for Health
and Clinical Excellence said in an e-mailed statement today
announcing the preliminary recommendation. The company, the
public and health workers can make comments that will be
considered by the London-based agency, known as NICE, next month
before it updates the decision.  The institute, which advises the government-run National
Health Service on which medicines provide value, found that drug
relieved the symptoms of myelofibrosis. Jakavi costs about
43,200 pounds ($67,427) a year per patient, NICE said.  “It is disappointing not to be able to recommend this new
treatment in our preliminary recommendations, but in order to do
this we have to be sure that the treatment is both clinically
and cost effective, because money has to be diverted from
elsewhere in the health service to pay for it,” said  Carole Longson , director of NICE’s Health Technology Evaluation Centre.  Myelofibrosis causes scar tissue to replace bone marrow,
leading to blood-cell production, and subsequent swelling, in
organs such as the liver and spleen, according to the  National
Institutes of Health  in Bethesda, Maryland. Jakavi, which is
also known as ruxolitinib, reduces the swelling of the spleen
and eases symptoms such as itch and fatigue, NICE said.  Recommendation Disappoints  Novartis is disappointed with the recommendation, the
company said in an e-mailed statement.  “We are encouraged that the committee considers
ruxolitinib to be an innovative treatment and Novartis is
committed to working alongside clinicians and patient groups in
this area to address all queries raised by NICE,” said Panos
Alexakos, oncology general manager, for Novartis U.K. & Ireland.  Novartis won approval last year to sell the drug in the
European Union. The Basel, Switzerland-based company has
marketing rights for Jakavi outside the U.S. under a partnership
formed with Wilmington, Delaware-based  Incyte Corp.  in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Serafino in Paris at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Heather Harris at 
 hharris5@bloomberg.net  