-- Nuclear Inspectors in Iran Seek Access to Nuclear Sites
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2013-02-13T12:34:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/nuclear-inspectors-arrive-in-iran-seeking-access-to-army-site.html
A team of United Nations inspectors
arrived in Iran to negotiate wider access to the Persian Gulf
nation’s nuclear facilities.  The International Atomic Energy Agency delegation led by
Herman Nackaerts will hold talks in Tehran today, the state-run
 Press TV  news channel reported. It’s seeking a deal that would
include a visit to the Parchin military site, where nuclear work
may have been carried out, according to intelligence reports
received by the agency.  “We will try to work hard to resolve the differences,”
Nackaerts was shown as saying by the state-run news channel
before leaving Vienna.  Iran, a signatory to the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty
that’s under a series of U.S. and European Union sanctions,
rejects claims that it is seeking nuclear weapons and insists it
must be given access to documents on which allegations about its
nuclear program are based.  Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman Ramin Mehmanparast
reiterated yesterday his country’s readiness to allow an
inspection of Parchin if Iran’s right to enrich uranium as part
of a civilian nuclear program is recognized by world powers.  “There are no mentions for the time of a visit of the
Parchin site or another site and we are holding talks with the
hope of getting to a rational framework,” Fereydoun Abbasi-
Davani, the head of the Iranian Atomic Energy Organization told
reporters today on the sidelines of a meeting with the
presidential cabinet.  “We hope they will approach the issue in a rational way
and recognize the rights of the Iranian nation and present
evidence for the claims,” Abbasi-Davani said according to the
state-run  Iranian Students News Agency .  The last meeting between IAEA and Iranian officials was in
in Tehran in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  