-- Nvidia Forecasts First-Quarter Sales That Miss Analyst Estimates
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-02-14T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/nvidia-forecasts-sales-that-fall-short-of-analysts-predictions.html
Nvidia Corp. , a maker of graphics
processors, gave a forecast for fiscal first-quarter sales that
fell short of analysts’ estimates amid weak demand for personal-
computer parts and stiff competition in new markets.  Sales in the period ending in April will be about $940
million, plus or minus 2 percent, Nvidia said yesterday in a
statement. That indicates revenue of $921.2 million to $958.8
million, compared with an average analyst projection of $1.07
billion, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  PC makers, facing lackluster demand as consumers opt for
mobile devices, are scaling back orders for components,
including Nvidia’s chips that speed up graphics for gamers and
designers. The company’s attempt to move into the faster-growing
market for phones and tablets with its Tegra processor is also
running into tougher competition from companies such as Qualcomm
Inc., according to  Craig Ellis , an analyst at B. Riley & Co.  “On the Tegra side, there’s an increasingly difficult
competitive and customer situation,” said Ellis, who is based
in San Francisco. He has a neutral  rating  on Nvidia’s stock. In
addition, he said the company’s latest computer-graphics design,
Kepler, isn’t winning orders from rival Advanced Micro Devices
Inc. as fast as it was when it was introduced last year.  Nvidia  shares  slipped to $12.20 in extended trading after
the earnings report. They had fallen less than 1 percent to
$12.37 at yesterday’s close in New York, and have dropped 23
percent in the past year.  Branching Out  In the fourth quarter, which ended Jan. 27, net income rose
to $174 million, or 28 cents a share, from $116 million, or 19
cents, a year earlier, Santa Clara, California-based Nvidia
said. Sales climbed 16 percent to $1.1 billion. Analysts on
average had estimated earnings of 24 cents on sales of $1.1
billion, according to data compiled by  Bloomberg .  Under Chief Executive Officer  Jen-Hsun Huang , Nvidia has
branched out into processors that run mobile phones and tablets,
trying to lessen its dependence on PCs -- a market that is
poised for a second straight annual decline in 2013. The company
is also facing a threat from Intel Corp. and AMD, which are
building the function performed by graphics chips into general
microprocessors, potentially shrinking the market available to
Nvidia’s stand-alone parts.  PC shipments will decline in the first quarter,  pulling
down  demand for chips used in add-in graphics cards, Huang said
in an interview yesterday. While orders for  Tegra 3  chips for
mobile gadgets are tapering off, the company has more design
wins for its replacement, Tegra 4, which will begin to show up
in devices in the second quarter, he said.  ‘Down Seasonally’  “The PC is going to be down seasonally and we’re going to
be down consistent with that,” Huang said. “Tegra 3 is going
to decline as the market waits for Tegra 4.”  Nvidia won orders for Microsoft Corp.’s Surface and other
tablets last year with Tegra, boosting its presence outside PCs.
The company unveiled Tegra 4 in January.  For the current period, Nvidia forecast  gross margin , or
the percentage of sales remaining after deducting the cost of
production, of 52.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  