-- NYU Gets $40 Million From Marron for Cities Institute
-- B y   L i s a   W o l f s o n   a n d   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2013-02-13T16:14:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/nyu-gets-40-million-gift-from-marron-for-new-cities-institute.html
New York University received a $40
million gift from Lightyear Capital LLC Chairman Donald Marron 
and will use the funds to create an institute to study cities
and urban areas.  The Marron Institute on Cities and the Urban Environment
will help cities become more sustainable and livable, the
Manhattan-based university said today in a statement.  “This is wonderful for the city, for NYU,” Mayor Michael
Bloomberg said at a briefing at the university.  By the year 2025, there are projected to be 40 so-called
megacities of 10 million people or more, up from 23 now, said
the mayor, who is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
News parent Bloomberg LP. For the first time, half the world’s
population lives in cities, a proportion that will rise to
three-quarters by mid-century, he said.  “It is a remarkable and historic shift and it presents
real challenges to big cities -- challenges to improve public
health, to create housing, to preserve the environment, to
provide the basic services and economic opportunities to draw
people to cities in the first place,” Bloomberg said.  Richard Revesz , dean of NYU’s law school, will lead the
institute. He plans to step down from his current post on May
31. The institute will sponsor fellowships and award research
grants and plans to work with policy makers around the world to
shape solutions to urban issues.  40,000 Students  NYU’s enrollment of more than 40,000 makes it the largest
private, nonprofit university in the U.S. Among its alumni are
former Federal Reserve Chairman  Alan Greenspan , film director
 Martin Scorsese  and former New York Mayor  Rudy Giuliani .
Bloomberg’s mother also graduated from it in 1929 and his
daughter about five years ago.  Marron, who founded Lightyear, a New York-based private-
equity firm, also served as chairman and chief executive officer
of Paine Webber Group Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Wolfson in Boston at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net ;
Esme E. Deprez in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  