-- Oaktree Said to Seek $3 Billion for New Distressed Fund
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2013-02-13T21:27:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/oaktree-said-to-seek-3-billion-for-new-distressed-fund.html
Oaktree Capital Group LLC , the
world’s largest distressed-debt investor, plans to raise $3
billion for its next global fund that will seek to take control
of companies through purchases of loans and equity stakes,
according to two people with knowledge of the situation.  Oaktree Principal Fund VI LP would be larger than the $2.8
billion gathered by the predecessor fund in 2010, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because the fundraising
is private. The fund, though global, will focus mainly on
investments in the U.S., one of the people said. Alyssa Linn, a
spokeswoman at Sard Verbinnen & Co., declined to comment on
behalf of Los Angeles-based Oaktree.  Oaktree’s new fund is the latest in its series of so-called
Principal funds, which buy equity or debt in distressed or
stressed businesses with an eye toward eventually taking control
of the companies. The firm, which managed $77.1 billion as of
Dec. 31, last year raised $4.8 billion for its latest fund that
seeks to purchase debt from ailing companies without seeking to
take control.  The prior fund in the series, Oaktree Principal Fund V LP,
was about 71 percent invested as of Sept. 30, according to a
 U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filing  by Oaktree. It
was producing a 1.2 times multiple and a 6.1 percent net
internal rate of return as of that date.  Howard Marks founded Oaktree in 1995 with Bruce Karsh and
five other partners from TCW Group Inc. The firm also manages a
strategy dedicated to making investments in the emerging
markets, and has funds devoted to real estate, corporate debt
and mezzanine investing, according to its website.  The firm in 2011 raised 3 billion-euros ($4 billion) for
its third  European-focused fund  focused on taking control of
distressed European companies through debt or equity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in New York at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  