-- Obama’s Underwhelming Ideas for College Reform
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V e d d e r
-- 2013-02-13T21:16:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/obama-lags-as-states-lead-college-reform.html
President  Barack Obama ’s State of
the Union  remarks  on higher education last night were modest in
magnitude and tepid in ambition compared with promises in
previous years. In 2009, for example, he suggested the U.S.
would regain the planetary lead in the proportion of young
adults with bachelor’s degrees.  I sensed either that the higher education establishment
that supported him enthusiastically in the last election has
indicated its opposition to major reform, or that  other issues 
(immigration, gun control) are perceived to resonate better with
the public or the Democratic Party base.  Obama had one idea that has been floated by other political
leaders in a lackluster way: Tie federal college aid to the
schools’ performance in controlling costs and offering value.
There is some virtue to this proposal, but his remarks were
vague and nonspecific.  In reality, most federal aid  goes to students , not
colleges. Is he going to reduce federal Pell grants if a student
goes to expensive school A instead of cheaper school B? Is the
availability of student loans going to be curtailed for
attendance at certain schools? It seems nonsensical to tie the
largest source of direct federal payments to colleges, research
grants, to, say, levels of tuition increases.  The other idea mentioned explicitly, a college scoreboard,
was promised last year but introduced only in a  limited  way that
isn’t helpful to consumers. It supposedly will make students
 better informed  by comparing the costs and value of different
colleges.  States’ Role  The president’s remarks on higher education were
disappointing largely for what he didn’t say. He didn’t even
give lip service to the  vital role  of the states. Public higher
education in the U.S. has mainly been a state responsibility,
and the existence of 50 systems gives the U.S. variety and
vitality rarely found elsewhere in the world.  Nor did he address innovations in the states. Republican
Governors  Rick Perry  of Texas and  Rick Scott  of Florida are
promoting a low-cost four-year degree ($10,000 total) and other
consumer-friendly initiatives.  In his State of the Union speech last year, Obama called
for publishing national data on the earnings of college
graduates by school attended. Nothing has happened, however, and
he was silent on it this year.  Virginia has done this on its own, so we now know, for
example, that the recent graduates of George Mason University do
much better on average when it comes to salaries than the
graduates of, say, the College of William and Mary or Virginia
Commonwealth University.  My own state of Ohio is one of several that increasingly
finances state universities on the basis of outcomes, such as
graduation rates, rather than inputs, such as students enrolled.  Georgia’s Hope Scholarship  program  for many years has
promoted both greater access and rewards for meritorious high
school performance. The federal government, by contrast,
actually rewards poor performance and academic mediocrity by
giving more Pell grant money to students who take five or six
years to graduate, as opposed to those finishing in four. Obama
has proposed nothing to change this.  Above all, experience suggests the president’s rhetoric far
exceeds actual results.  His first goal in last year’s State of the Union then was
to slow down the  growth  in college costs. The College Board
 reports  that fall 2012 net tuition fees (tuition and fees after
adjusting for financial aid) at four-year institutions rose far
more in inflation-adjusted terms (6 percent for nonprofit
private colleges and 11 percent for  public universities ) than
the annual average for the past decade. In short, no progress
has been made.  Loan Debt  A proposed $1 billion program to give states incentives to
increase higher education funding was killed in the Democrat-
controlled Senate. Other proposals for a universally used
financial aid shopping list or a doubling of work-study awards
didn’t go anywhere or passed in limited forms.  Two of Obama’s higher education proposals from last year
were adopted. Congress agreed to maintain low interest rates on
student loans. But why? To entice more students into greater
 student loan debt  at a time when ever larger proportions of
college graduates (48 percent by one measure) are taking jobs
that historically have been the preserve of those with less than
a college education? We already have 115,000 janitors with
bachelor’s degrees.  The other 2012 goal that Obama met was to extend his
American Opportunity Tax Credit. Yet liberal scholars deplore
tuition tax credits because they mostly benefit the affluent and
do little to improve access, while conservatives dislike them
because they think the credits contribute to tuition inflation.
Both sides are right.  What should the president have said this year?  “We need to encourage the states to continue the
initiatives already under way to improve the quality and reduce
the cost of higher education. We need to rethink and ultimately
move away from our Byzantine and costly system of federal
student financial aid that has not led to increased
representation of lower-income Americans with college degrees,
but has contributed to the cost explosion and growing student
loan debt. The federal government can do more for our college
attendees by doing less, not more.”  ( Richard Vedder , a contributor to Bloomberg View, directs
the Center for College Affordability and Productivity, teaches
economics at Ohio University and is an adjunct scholar at the
American Enterprise Institute. The opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
 Richard Vedder  at  vedder@ohio.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 