-- Republicans Demand Full Slate From Obama for Labor Board
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2013-02-13T21:29:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/obama-s-labor-board-nominees-draw-business-criticism.html
President  Barack Obama  must send the
Senate a full slate of National Labor Relations Board members
for confirmation, and not just the two Democrats he offered
today, top lawmakers in Congress said.  Sharon Block  and  Richard Griffin , the nominees, were
January 2012 appointees whose positions were declared invalid by
a U.S. court last month. Republican  Terence Flynn  quit in July
and  Brian Hayes ’s term ended in December, leaving Chairman  Mark Gaston Pearce  as the only NLRB member confirmed by the Senate.
The board needs three members for a quorum.  “The president should promptly send two Republican
nominees, respecting the tradition of a bipartisan NLRB,” said
Senator  Lamar Alexander  of Tennessee, senior Republican on the
Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee that will
considers Block and Griffin. “In the meantime, while the Senate
considers their nominations, these two individuals should leave
the board” because of the court decision, he said.  The labor board’s 200 rulings since Block and Griffin took
their seats are clouded after the U.S. Court of Appeals ruled
Obama violated the Constitution by making a recess appointment
when the Senate wasn’t in a recess. The Obama administration and
the labor board said the court’s decision applied only to a
single case, and prior decisions were unaffected.  ‘Move Quickly’  “I am pleased to see President Obama acting to
strengthen” the board, Senator  Tom Harkin , an Iowa Democrat and
chairman of the Health and Labor committee, said in an e-mail.
“I hope that the president will also move quickly to renominate
Chairman Pearce and announce nominees for the two Republican
seats on the NLRB, so that the board can continue its important
work without interruption.”  In the House, which doesn’t play a role in the confirmation
process, Republican leaders urged Obama to work with the Senate
to fill all vacant positions.  “Until a constitutionally appointed Board is seated,
uncertainty will reign in labor-management relations,”
according to a letter to Obama signed by House Speaker  John Boehner , Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , Majority Whip  Kevin McCarthy , Republican Conference head  Cathy McMorris Rodgers ,
House Education and the Workforce Committee Chairman  John Kline ,
and Subcommittee on Health, Employment, Labor, and Pensions
Chairman Phil Roe.  The letter didn’t mention today’s nominations.  Big Labor  Block, a former U.S. Labor Department official, and
Griffin, former general counsel for the International Union of
Operating Engineers, drew criticism from a business group.  The NLRB nominations “demonstrates once again that payback
to big labor bosses is a top priority in this White House,”
Fred Wszolek, spokesman for the Workforce Fairness Institute, a
business owners group, said in an e-mail. “Both Griffin and
Block continue to issue decisions considered illicit by the D.C.
Circuit Court because they are not lawfully on the board.”  Republicans hailed the Jan. 25 ruling by the U.S. Court of
Appeals in Washington and called on the board to stop making
decisions. The unanimous ruling may upend decisions involving
companies such as DISH Network Corp., Station Casinos LLC and
Gannett Co. on a range of issues related to negotiations over
contract terms, access to the workplace when employees are off
duty and whether union dues can be deducted from paychecks after
collective bargaining agreements expire.  “I’m naively hopeful that bipartisanship is going to
eventually emerge and Obama could make a deal with
Republicans,” Kenneth Dau-Schmidt, Carr professor of labor and
employment law at Indiana University in Bloomington, said in an
interview. “Maybe the election results will change their
attitude but short of that, there’s nothing that’s going to
force them to be more cooperative.”  The court ruling may also be used to challenge regulations
by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, whose director,
 Richard Cordray , was named at the same time as the board
members. The White House said the ruling won’t affect Cordray
and was limited to the company that challenged the NLRB’s
decision in court. Cordray also was nominated today by Obama.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  