-- Obama’s Boldly Modest State of the Union
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-02-13T10:20:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/obama-s-boldly-modest-state-of-the-union.html
The most moving part of President
 Barack Obama ’s  State of the Union address  was also its least
ambitious.  Gesturing to the girl’s parents in the first lady’s box,
Obama recounted the story of Hadiya Pendleton, the high-school
majorette who performed at his inauguration last month. She was
shot and killed two weeks ago. He acknowledged former
Representative  Gabrielle Giffords , also in attendance, who was
critically wounded by a gunman two years ago. He recognized the
victims of the mass shooting of schoolchildren last December in
Newtown, Connecticut, one of whose teachers also sat with
 Michelle Obama .  What all these people deserve, the president said, is not
necessarily safer gun laws. What they deserve is -- a vote on
safer gun laws. “If you want to vote no,” he told members of
Congress, “that’s your choice. But these proposals deserve a
vote.”  It was an oddly modest request, made more so because Obama
has been  so bold  in demanding common-sense gun laws, such as
stricter background checks and a ban on high-capacity magazines.
Then again, the State of the Union is an odd event. It’s best
not to try to make too much sense of it. Anyone care to explain
to  Ruth Bader Ginsburg  and  Ted Nugent  how they ended up on the
same guest list?  With that caveat -- as well as the knowledge that State of
the Union proposals generally, and Obama’s  in particular , don’t
always come to fruition -- this year’s version was notable for
its seeming reasonableness. Emphasis on “seeming.”  By some measures, this was an  ambitious speech , calling for
an increase in the minimum wage; universal preschool;
legislation to slow down climate change; immigration reform;
voting reform; negotiations for a free-trade agreement with
Europe; and winning seasons for all hometown teams. (OK, we made
that last one up. But surely the president supports it.)  At the same time, however, Obama had a way of pulling back,
of making his ambitions seem less grand. This is easy enough to
do when citing bipartisan commissions (we counted at least three
references) and offering minor proposals (redesigning high
schools “to better equip graduates for the demands of a high-
tech economy”). It’s harder to do when making the case for the
big issues.  For example, the president made the standard call for
“comprehensive immigration reform.”  As necessary  as that may be,
it remains unlikely. So Obama was also careful to call for
“fixing the legal immigration system.” Few Republicans would
argue with that (though a few Democrats might). The danger is
that in offering it, the president could cede too much in the
fight for broader reform.  To deal with the budget deficit, Obama called for “tax
reform and entitlement reform,” which sounds better than “tax
increases and entitlement cuts,” and proposed eliminating some
loopholes and making “modest reforms” to Medicare. But he didn’t
offer many details, and the discussion was more about getting
the government’s budget in order than its proper role in
society. If you’re trying to be agreeable, then specifics can
only cause trouble, as they tend to foster disagreement.  Or take increasing the minimum wage and making preschool
available “to every child in America”: Both would unquestionably
help in the fight against income and wealth inequality. But
Obama didn’t articulate any such rationale. He just cited
statistics and Republicans in support of his proposals.  Granted, these are tactical concerns, and the purpose of
the State of the Union address -- isn’t it? -- is to make policy
arguments. It’s not the ideal forum for declamations on the
rights of citizens and the role of government. That’s what
inaugural addresses are for, and Obama’s second was notable for
its  unapologetic defense  of the classical liberal vision.  Obama seemed at pains in the State of the Union to be
prosaic, sensible, unthreatening. Did it work? If Senator  Marco Rubio ’s  rote response  to the State of the Union is any
indication, Obama’s tone last night didn’t win him much of a
hearing with Republicans.  Which brings us back to our original point: Calling for a
vote on new gun-safety laws is either politically astute (who
could be against a simple vote?) or politically pointless (why
ask for only a simple vote?). Maybe both. In making his request
so modest, Obama risks making his opponents suspicious and his
supporters nervous. Or maybe he’s just, you know, trying to be
reasonable.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 