-- Obama Draws Skeptics in Overhaul of Preschool to College
-- B y   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r
-- 2013-02-13T21:06:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/obama-draws-skeptics-in-call-to-overhaul-preschool-to-college.html
President  Barack Obama ’s call for a
renewed federal push on education from preschool through college
drew skepticism from Republicans and universities.  In his State of the Union address last night, Obama
advocated for preschool for every 4-year-old. Citing crushing
student debt, he reiterated a call to hold colleges accountable
on cost, value and quality. The White House provided no cost
estimates and few details.  “To grow our middle class, our citizens must have access
to the education and training that today’s jobs require,” Obama
said.  Obama’s plan could cost state and federal governments as
much as $15 billion more a year for preschool costs and upend
the higher-education industry, which has about $500 billion in
annual revenue and 20 million students.  In a fact sheet distributed before the speech, the
president proposed a state-federal partnership for preschool,
with the U.S. government offering competitive grants. Each
dollar invested in high-quality preschool saves $7 later on by
increasing graduation rates, lowering teen pregnancy and
reducing crime, Obama said, citing programs in  Oklahoma  and
Georgia.  Only 10 states and the District of Columbia currently
require districts to provide free, full-day kindergartens.
Creating a challenge to the plan, Republicans have long been
critical of the effectiveness of Head Start, the federal
preschool program for low-income families dating to the 1960s.  ‘First Review’  “Before we spend more taxpayer dollars on new programs, we
must first review what is and is not working in existing
initiatives, such as Head Start,” U.S. Representative  John Kline , the Minnesota Republican who heads the House Education
and the Workforce Committee, said in a statement.  Universal preschool is no small matter because there are
more than 4 million U.S. 4-year-olds. Quality programs can
average $8,000 a child, according to  Lisa Guernsey , director of
the early education initiative at New America Foundation, a
Washington-based policy group.  By Guernsey’s reckoning, states and the federal government
would have to spend $10 billion to $15 billion a year more than
the roughly $9 billion they are already budgeting annually.  “If we do this on the cheap, we’ll be wasting our money,”
Guernsey said in a phone interview. “If children are not
getting a high-quality experience, it may not make much of a
difference in their school readiness and ability to learn how to
learn.”  Student Aid  On the higher-education front, Obama took aim at the way
the federal government doles out $150 billion a year in loans
and grants for higher education.  The White House fact sheet said Obama will ask Congress to
distribute that money to colleges in a way that promotes “the
best return on investment” and incorporates affordability into
college accreditation.  Colleges will be concerned if the U.S. government requires
accrediting agencies, which ensure academic quality, to take a
role in determining education cost, according to  Terry Hartle ,
senior vice president at the Washington-based American Council
on Education, which represents 1,800 college presidents.  “The risk would be if the Department of Education gets in
the business of telling institutions what their tuitions should
be,” Hartle said in a phone interview.  ‘Bargaining Chips’  Kline went a step further, saying: “Federal student aid
programs that are intended to help improve access to higher
education should not be used as bargaining chips to impose
federal price controls.”  Today, as part of the new effort, the administration
released a “ College Scorecard ” to give students and families
information about college costs and quality. Republicans support
disclosure yet are concerned that the scoreboard could duplicate
available information and add to colleges’ regulatory burden,
Kline said.  In what could be part of the college cost-control plan,
Obama last year said he wanted to use  Perkins loans , a program
for low-income families, as a lever for keeping tuition
affordable. The administration’s plan would increase the Perkins
program to $8.5 billion annually from $1 billion.  The government would then give more aid to colleges with
moderate tuition increases and strong educational outcomes and
yank funding from those with the highest increases.  Affordability Incentive  Last year, Obama proposed $1 billion in “Race to the Top”
college grants, modeled after an elementary and high school
program that pushed states to agree to the White House’s
education agenda. Under the college version, states that pushed
for affordability could win money. Colleges may view such a plan
as a threat to their institutional autonomy, Hartle said.  Showing the bipartisan appeal of some cost-control efforts,
a bill proposed by U.S. Senator  Ron Wyden , an Oregon Democrat --
and co-sponsored by Florida’s  Marco Rubio , who delivered the
Republican response to Obama’s address -- would require that
colleges disclose costs and debt and how much students can be
expected to earn in the workforce. The legislation would
establish state-based systems to link individual transcript data
-- excluding information that would identify students -- to
employment and earnings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Hechinger in Boston at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
lwolfson@bloomberg 