-- Obama Speech Signals Water, Sewage Improvements Ahead (Co
-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 2013-02-14T10:20:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/obama-speech-signals-water-sewer-infrastructure-upgrades.html
President  Barack Obama ’s call for
more public-private partnerships to fix infrastructure that’s
breaking down is a signal for companies to invest in upgrades to
U.S. water and sewage systems, executives said today.  Obama in his State of the Union speech last night spoke of
“an aging infrastructure badly in need of repair” and said
companies will create jobs should the U.S. improve ports,
pipelines, roads and schools. He proposed a “Fix-It-First”
program for the most urgent repairs and a “Partnership to
Rebuild America” to attract capital to improve infrastructure.  Water wasn’t mentioned explicitly in the speech though
Obama “did say infrastructure and he very clearly said public-
private partnerships,” said Michael Deane, executive director
of the National Association of Water Companies, a Washington-
based lobbying group. About 85 percent of U.S. residents get
water from companies owned or managed by government and public
entities, with most lacking the cash to repair and replace water
and sewage systems, he said.  The U.S. needs to invest at least $1 trillion in water
infrastructure by 2035, according to a study, and that’s money
most utilities don’t have, said Su Gao, a water analyst with
 Bloomberg New Energy Finance  in New York.  “Many of the U.S. water systems are already at the end of
their planned lifetime,” she said. “You have a lot of older
pipes and deferred investment -- it’s underground, out of sight,
out of mind. Public-private partnerships are very important
because the municipalities don’t have the means to fix their
infrastructure.”  Century-Old Pipes  Buried mains and pipes, some over a century old and made of
wood and ceramic, are the most pressing concern, said  Cindy Wallis-Lage , president of the water division of Black & Veatch
Corp., an engineering firm based in Overland Park, Kansas.  “Think of the ramifications of a pipeline break and what
that means to a community. It impacts businesses, residents,
traffic -- impacts far beyond the cost of that immediate
repair,” Wallis-Lage said.  Xylem Inc. saw the speech as “very positive” to bring
infrastructure as a topic to the fore for economic health and
job creation, said Colin Sabol, chief strategy officer for the
water company spun off from ITT Corp. Xylem cited estimates from
the Water Environment Federation that 28,500 jobs are created
for every $1 billion invested in water infrastructure.  “The president raised infrastructure investing as an
important topic,” Sabol said in a phone interview. Xylem, whose
pumps helped clear floodwaters during Hurricane Sandy, doesn’t
expect direct business though water infrastructure investments
may yield related benefits for it, he said.  ‘On Outside’  “From our perspective, water has always been on the
outside of the conversation around infrastructure than more
visible forms like bridges and roads and now ports,” he said.  Congress’s first priority should be to pass a law raising
the cap on Private Activity Bonds, a way for state and local
governments to use tax-exempt financing for public works
projects, the NAWC’s Deane said. Representative Bill Pascrell, a
New Jersey Democrat and member of the House Ways and Means
Committee, said he plans to re-introduce such a bill in Congress
this session.  “We were very encouraged” by Obama’s speech, said  Mark Strauss , senior vice president of corporate strategy and
business development at Voorhees, New Jersey-based  American
Water Works Co. , the largest publicly traded U.S. water utility.  Private Capital  “There’s a lot of private capital that would be willing to
go to work in this sector,” Strauss said. U.S. tax authorities
need to remove some rules that make public-private partnerships
more difficult, and the federal government should explain to
consumers and voters that private investment in utilities is “a
legitimate model to be followed.”  “We have got to figure something out here because the
nation’s public balance sheet is challenged with all the other
demands on it,” he said. “Investment in water infrastructure
is something that private capital is interested in.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter S. Green in New York at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Randall Hackley at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net  