-- Obama Calls for Accord to Expand Trade With 27 Nations of EU
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-02-13T02:16:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/obama-calls-for-accord-to-expand-trade-with-27-nations-of-eu.html
President  Barack Obama  vowed to
begin talks on a trade agreement with the European Union,
expanding the world’s largest economic relationship, while at
the same time finishing discussions for a Pacific-region accord.  “Trade that is free and fair across the Atlantic supports
millions of good-paying jobs,” Obama said in prepared remarks
for his State of the Union speech tonight. It was his strongest
commitment to trade negotiations with the EU.  Talks with the 27-nation EU will help Obama meet his goal
of doubling exports by the end of 2014 as global negotiations
stall and China increases its role in global economy. Obama’s
administration also plans to complete negotiations on the Trans-
Pacific Partnership with 10 nations in the region.  The administration set an ambitious goal for the talks.
Recent U.S. trade agreements took years of negotiations. While
trade and investment between the U.S. and the EU was valued at
$4.5 trillion in 2011, the partners have been at odds over
issues including farm subsidies, health protections and
regulatory standards.  Obama’s trade representative,  Ron Kirk , said he plans to
leave office by the end of this month and a replacement hasn’t
been named.  Congressional support for an EU deal depends on issues
including better market access for U.S. agricultural goods,
strong intellectual property protections and a means to settle
disputes, leaders of the Senate Finance Committee said today in
a letter to Kirk.  A free-trade agreement between the U.S. and EU is an
“enticing opportunity,” the senators,  Max Baucus , a Montana
Democrat, and  Orrin Hatch , a Utah Republican, wrote.  U.S. and EU negotiators, led by Kirk and European Trade
Commissioner  Karel De Gucht , since late 2011 have been working
on a report to outline the scope of a potential accord. The
group released an interim report in June, setting among the
goals the removal of all duties on bilateral trade. A final
report hasn’t been issued.  The EU, reeling from a sovereign debt crisis, and
Washington-based industry groups including the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce and the Business Roundtable have urged the Obama
administration to pursue a trans-Atlantic accord.  While  Vice President  Joe Biden said in Munich on Feb. 2
that such as deal is “within our reach,” he cautioned: “The
question now is whether the political will exists to resolve
those long-standing differences.”  The EU on Feb. 4 changed rules for the trade of live pigs
and lactic acid used to clean bovine carcasses in an effort to
win U.S. support for a deal. The changes take effect Feb. 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  