-- Obama Orders Cybersecurity Standards for Infrastructure
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2013-02-13T20:55:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/obama-orders-cybersecurity-standards-for-u-s-infrastructure.html
President  Barack Obama  bypassed
Congress and issued an executive order to boost U.S.
cybersecurity while telling lawmakers they still must act to
further strengthen the nation’s computer defenses.  The order, released yesterday as Obama began his State of
the Union speech, directs the government to develop voluntary
cybersecurity standards for companies operating the nation’s
vital infrastructure, such as power grids and air traffic
control systems. It instructs federal agencies to consider
putting those standards into existing regulations.  “It’s a good first step,” said  Frank Cilluffo , director
of George Washington University’s Homeland Security Policy
Institute. “It’s not a substitute for legislation.” Unless the
president offers incentives to get companies to be more
aggressive about cybersecurity, “it can only take us so far,”
said Cilluffo, a former special assistant to President  George W. Bush  for homeland security.  Obama has said infrastructure such as nuclear plants and
railway systems that serve millions of people are vulnerable to
hacking and require greater protection. The administration has
been drafting the executive order for months, seeking to
implement some provisions of proposed Senate legislation blocked
by Republicans last year. Republicans and the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce, the nation’s largest business lobby, said the bill’s
standards would amount to burdensome regulation.  New Attacks  By allowing U.S. agencies to require companies to comply
with stronger cybersecurity standards, the executive order
creates “the worst-case scenario for organizations that fought
efforts to pass cybersecurity legislation,”  Afzal Bari , a
Bloomberg Government analyst, said in a note today.  Cybersecurity has gained renewed national attention in
recent weeks with revelations about a security breach of a U.S.
Federal Reserve website, intrusions at the  New York Times  and
other news organizations attributed to Chinese hackers, and a
wave of denial-of-service attacks that disrupted the websites of
U.S. banks.  “We know hackers steal people’s identities and infiltrate
private e-mail. We know foreign countries and companies swipe
our corporate secrets,” Obama said in his State of the Union
speech. “Now our enemies are also seeking the ability to
sabotage our power grid, our financial institutions, and our
air-traffic-control systems.”  The executive order “will strengthen our cyber defenses,”
Obama said, adding that Congress should now pass legislation to
“give our government a greater capacity to secure our networks
and deter attacks.”  Security Companies  Network security companies including  Sourcefire Inc .,
 Fortinet Inc. , and  Palo Alto Networks Inc. , may benefit from the
creation of new cybersecurity standards under the executive
order,  Walter Pritchard , an analyst with Citigroup Inc., wrote
in a research note today. At the same time, he said the total
effect on technology spending may be minimal.  “We’ve seen many attempts to drive increased focus on
cyber security through federal government initiatives,”
Pritchard said. “While well intentioned, they have generally
had little impact on spending on IT security products and we
believe this will be the case again here.”  The executive order directs the National Institute of
Standards and Technology, part of the U.S. Commerce Department,
to develop cybersecurity standards for infrastructure companies.
The Homeland Security Department will then work with federal
agencies and industry on a voluntary program for companies to
adopt the standards.  Legal Barriers  The order also expands a government program for sharing
classified threat data with defense contractors and Internet-
service providers to include infrastructure owners and the
companies that provide them with network security.  Legislation is needed to remove legal barriers that
discourage industry from telling the government about computer
intrusions and to provide incentives for companies to adopt
cybersecurity standards, General  Keith Alexander , director of
the National Security Agency and U.S. Cyber Command, said at a
Commerce Department briefing in Washington today.  The government has “blind spots” with cybersecurity,
Alexander said. “With so much of the critical infrastructure
owned and operated by the private sector, the government is
often unaware of malicious activity targeting our critical
infrastructure.”  Banks, Utilities  Obama can’t give companies legal immunity for exchanging
cyber-threat information with each other or with the government,
said  Mary Ellen Callahan , a partner in Washington with the
Jenner & Block law firm and a former chief privacy officer with
the Homeland Security Department. Some companies are concerned
about antitrust and other restrictions on exchanging data, she
said in an interview.  The president’s action “provides important direction to
the public sector on the need to share information associated
with threats to our critical infrastructures,”  Frank Keating ,
chief executive officer of the American Bankers Association,
said in an e-mailed statement.  The Edison Electric Institute, which represents investor-
owned utilities including Southern Co. of Atlanta and Exelon
Corp. of Chicago, called the order an important step while
saying congressional action is needed to improve information
sharing on cyber threats.  House Bill  House Intelligence Committee Chairman  Mike Rogers , a
Michigan Republican, and the panel’s top Democrat,  C.A. “Dutch” Ruppersberger  of Maryland, reintroduced a
cybersecurity bill today. The measure, which passed the House
last year, offers legal protection for companies that share
cyber-threat information with each other and the government, and
makes it easier for the government to pass classified threat
data to the private sector.  The Rogers-Ruppersberger bill, which doesn’t impose or
suggest standards for companies, earned a veto threat last year
from the Obama administration, which said it didn’t do enough to
protect critical infrastructure or the privacy of personal data
that might be shared by companies.  Obama’s executive order is “not perfect but we are excited
about the opportunity to work with the president and fill in the
gaps,” Rogers said at a news conference in Washington today.
“We’ve had some great discussions with the White House.”  The American Civil Liberties Union opposes the  Rogers bill ,
which “allows companies to share sensitive and personal
American Internet data with the government, including the
National Security Agency and other military agencies,” Michelle
Richardson, ACLU legislative counsel, said in an e-mail.  The executive order’s information-sharing provisions
“don’t negatively impact civil liberties,” Richardson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  