-- Obama Says Manufacturing Plans Crucial to Future U.S. Growth
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-02-13T17:57:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/obama-says-manufacturing-plans-crucial-to-future-u-s-growth.html
President  Barack Obama , on the road
to promote his State of the Union proposals, said the U.S. is
becoming more competitive in global markets and reviving the
country’s manufacturing base is crucial to future growth.  A combination of government support for training and
research, tax code changes to reward companies that expand in
the U.S. and working with local authorities to lure investment
is needed to make the nation more productive, he said.  “I believe in manufacturing; I believe it makes our
country stronger,” Obama said at a  Linamar Corp . facility that
produces heavy duty engine and driveline components in
Asheville, North Carolina.  The plant, the Canadian company’s fourth U.S. manufacturing
facility, is in what had been a shuttered factory. It’s
scheduled to employ 200 workers by year’s end.  Today is the first of three days of travel for Obama to
highlight aspects of his economic agenda outlined in last
night’s State of the Union address. He goes to Georgia tomorrow
and Illinois the next day.  The president last night asked Congress to spend $1 billion
to set up a network of 15 manufacturing institutes that would
link up businesses, universities and community colleges to
develop technology and train workers.  A pilot program, focused on creating parts from digital
images using three-dimensional printing, is operating in
Youngstown, Ohio. While waiting for Congress to act, Obama wants
to create three more using executive authority.  Funding Centers  Jason Furman , deputy director of Obama’s National Economic
Council, said the some of the money for the program would come
out of existing funding and the $1 billion would be offset by
savings that will be part of the fiscal 2014 budget that Obama
sends to Congress next month.  Federal agencies, including the energy and defense
departments, put $45 million into the Ohio project. There are
pledges of additional money from a consortium of manufacturing
firms, universities and non-profit organizations.  Obama’s second-term agenda includes reinvigorating U.S.
manufacturing. In his speech last night, he highlighted steps by
companies such as  Apple Inc .,  Caterpillar Inc . and  Ford Motor
Co . to bring manufacturing jobs back to the U.S.  While Obama cites the 500,000 new manufacturing jobs added
in the last two years, that isn’t enough to replace the 1.8
million lost since 2007.  Gene Sperling , director of the NEC, said Obama’s 2014
budget will seek $20 million for the Commerce Department to hire
100 employees who will “wake up every day” lobbying foreign
companies to locate production facilities in the U.S.  “Manufacturing punches above its weight,” Sperling said.
While only 12 percent of the U.S. workforce is employed in the
sector, he said, “It represents 70 percent of corporate R&D, 90
percent of patents.”  He said wage increases in China and declining energy prices
making U.S. more competitive for manufacturers. “We as a
country have the wind at our back for the first time,” Sperling
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Asheville, North Carolina, at  jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  