-- OCC’s Curry Defends $9 Billion Foreclosure Deal With Servicers
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-02-13T17:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/occ-s-curry-defends-9-billion-foreclosure-deal-with-servicers.html
As paychecks for consultants hired
to review faulty foreclosures threatened to exceed compensation
to the homeowners harmed by the flaws, the U.S. Comptroller of
the Currency says he decided to end the reviews.  About 19 months after his agency ordered 14 of the largest
mortgage servicers to hire consultants to search for foreclosure
missteps, those consultants had made almost $2 billion and
nobody who’d been cheated on a foreclosure in 2009 or 2010 had
been paid, the comptroller,  Thomas Curry , said in remarks
prepared for an event today.  “It just doesn’t make sense for these servicers to
continue funneling money to consultants that could be better
used to help distressed borrowers who have lost their homes,”
he said in the speech for a  Women in Housing and Finance  event.
“The cost of concluding these reviews would far exceed the harm
that would be found.”  Curry’s agency and the Federal Reserve reached $9.3 billion
in settlements last month with 13 mortgage servicers for their
foreclosure faults after a U.S. housing-market collapse
contributed to the worst financial crisis since the Great
Depression.  The deal, which has been criticized by some lawmakers and
consumer groups, specified a cash payout of $3.6 billion that
will be divided among 4.4 million borrowers and is “several
times the potential payout had the reviews run their course,”
Curry said.  Mortgage servicers including  JPMorgan Chase & Co . and
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc . were accused of engaging in improper
foreclosure methods in that period, including so-called robo-
signing of documents.  Fixing Methods  The regulators’ 2011 orders for review also included steps
firms had to take to fix their methods, which Curry said started
a “sea change” in industry practices, including better
communications with borrowers and controls to halt foreclosures
when borrowers get loan modifications.  The review process “proved to be much more complicated
than anyone anticipated,” Curry said. Late last year, as his
agency was still spending $35 million trying to get wronged
borrowers to sign up to have their cases reviewed, he said he
and the Fed realized “that maintaining our course would
significantly delay compensation without appreciable benefit to
the affected borrowers.”  The bulk of the settlement with 13 of the largest mortgage
servicers -- $5.7 billion -- will go toward mortgage assistance
for current borrowers. The rest will provide direct cash to
borrowers foreclosed on, with as much as $125,000 paid to those
hurt the worst. The checks will start going out next month,
Curry said.  Awaiting Settlement  Among firms ordered in 2011 to have foreclosures reviewed,
three haven’t yet settled with regulators:  Ally Financial Inc .,
 IndyMac Bancorp ’s successor OneWest Bank FSB and  EverBank
Financial Corp.   Democratic lawmakers have demanded the banking regulators
explain what happened with the reviews, meant to find the
specific wrongs that hurt borrowers.  Among those questioning Curry and others in recent weeks
were Senator  Elizabeth Warren  of Massachusetts and
Representative  Maxine Waters  of California, the senior Democrat
on the House Financial Services Committee. Warren, responsible
for setting up the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau before
seeking office, signed a letter asking for further disclosures
that could shed light on the settlement’s “sufficiency and
integrity.”  Curry said the review process would have probably continued
into 2014. Now, the servicers will categorize their former
borrowers, assigning each to one of 11 groups depending on how
much harm they potentially experienced. The regulators will
determine payments for each.  “Changing course was the right thing to do for borrowers,
for servicers, for the federal banking system and for the
housing markets,” Curry said. He said the expensive data
gathered by consultants will “immensely improve” the agency’s
analysis, and the OCC will issue reports on the foreclosure
mitigation efforts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jesse Hamilton  in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 