-- OCI Gains in Cairo as Shareholders Approve Amsterdam Relocation
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2013-02-13T14:19:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/oci-gains-in-cairo-as-shareholders-approve-amsterdam-relocation.html
Orascom Construction Industries 
advanced to the highest level in more than three weeks after
shareholders of Egypt’s biggest publicly traded company approved
a plan to transfer the listing to Amsterdam.  Shares  of the Cairo-based company rose 1.7 percent to
267.86 Egyptian pounds at the close in the capital, the
strongest since Jan. 22. The stock is up 6.1 percent this year,
outpacing a 4.9 percent gain for the benchmark  EGX 30 Index ,
amid plans to transfer the listing to  NYSE Euronext . Orascom
Construction comprises a quarter of the EGX 30’s market value.  The company said 99.9 percent of minority shareholders in
the builder today approved the plan, giving them the option of
exchanging their stakes for stock in Amsterdam-based  OCI NV  or
selling them to a group of investors led by  Bill Gates ’ Cascade
Investments LLC for 280 pounds per share. The group, which
includes Southeastern Asset Management and Davis Selected
Advisors, has committed $2 billion toward buying stock.  Majority shareholders, including the Egyptian Sawiris
family and Dubai-based private equity company the Abraaj Group,
abstained from the vote at the request of the nation’s financial
market regulator. More than 97 percent of holders of OCI’s
London-traded shares, who represent 74 percent of the total, had
agreed to exchange their stock for OCI NV shares, the company
said last week.  Orascom Construction, which also makes fertilizers, will
file a tender offer for the Cairo-based shares next week, said
 Omar Darwazah , head of investor relations.  OCI NV  shares
increased 2.5 percent to $39.99 today, bringing their gain since
trading started on Jan. 25 to 2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  