-- Thomson Reuters Declines After Predicting Sluggish Growth
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-02-13T22:09:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/thomson-reuters-quarterly-profit-tops-analysts-estimates.html
Thomson Reuters Corp. , a provider of
news and information services, declined the most in more than
six months after the company predicted slow growth and narrowing
profit margins in 2013, and announced plans to cut 2,500 jobs.  Revenue will increase in the “low single digits,” the
company said today in a statement. Its adjusted profit margin --
based on earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization -- will range between 26 percent and 27 percent
this year. The figure was 28.2 percent in the fourth quarter.  Thomson Reuters’s Wall Street customers continue to cut
spending in the face of a sluggish economy, said  Brian Yarbrough , an analyst with Edward Jones in St. Louis. That’s
hurting demand for products such as  Eikon , an information
terminal for traders. The New York-based company doesn’t expect
to see profit in the division that produces Eikon until the
second half of this year.  “Everyone was expecting to see more in the first half of
this year for that division,” Yarbrough said.  Thomson Reuters  fell  2.3 percent to $29.96 at the close in
New York, marking the biggest one-day decline since July 2012.
The shares have gained 3.1 percent this year, compared with a
6.6 percent increase for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Cost Cutting  Thomson Reuters is midway through an effort to turn around
its financial and risk-management operations, Chief Executive
Officer  James C. Smith  said.  The company is relying on cost cutting to improve its
profitability, though it continues to invest in some areas such
as customer service. The job cuts, which Thomson Reuters
announced on a conference call today, will come from the
finance and risk business, affecting about 4 percent of the
company’s total employees. The move will result in severance
costs of about $100 million.  Fourth-quarter net income totaled $388 million, or 45 cents
a share, compared with a loss of $2.6 billion, or $3.11, a year
earlier, when the company wrote down the value of assets in its
financial-services business. Excluding certain charges such as
foreign exchange, profit totaled 60 cents a share last quarter.
Analysts had  projected  55 cents on average, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Revenue declined 5 percent to $3.4 billion from $3.58
billion in the period from a year earlier.  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News,
competes with Thomson Reuters in providing financial news and
information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edmund Lee  in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  