-- On Deck Raises $42 Million After Ending Talks With Wonga
-- B y   A r i   L e v y   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2013-02-13T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/on-deck-raises-42-million-after-ending-buyout-talks-with-wonga.html
On Deck Capital Inc., the Internet-
loan provider that recently ended talks to be acquired by
Wonga.com Ltd., raised $42 million in a private financing round
led by Institutional Venture Partners.  The funds will be used to bolster product development,
increase marketing and provide more lending for businesses in
2013 than the previous five years combined, the New York-based
company said today in a statement. Existing investors RRE
Ventures, First Round Capital and the venture unit of SAP AG
participated in the funding.  On Deck had been in talks to be purchased by London-based
Wonga for just less than $250 million late last year, people
familiar with the matter said in November. The two sides failed
to agree on a price and negotiations ended, people with
knowledge of the talks said in January. On Deck Chief Executive
Officer  Noah Breslow  declined to provide the valuation of the
company based on today’s financing.  Started in 2006, On Deck developed technology enabling it
to underwrite small business loans that are often considered too
small or risky for traditional banks. The company has loaned
$400 million to thousands of small businesses and last year
secured a credit line of almost $100 million, mostly from
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Fortress Investment Group LLC.  “A bank would much prefer to make a $2 million loan than a
$20,000 loan,” Breslow said in an interview. “At the $20,000-
loan level, all the work it takes to understand a business has
to be compressed into a much more efficient process, and that’s
what we do.”  Online Lending  On Deck is part of a growing crop of online lenders to
attract venture financing.  BillFloat Inc.  and  Prosper
Marketplace Inc.  have recently raised money, while LendingClub
Corp. last announced a funding  round  in June.  Loans made by On Deck  range  from $5,000 to $150,000, with
duration spanning three months to 18 months. The company serves
businesses in 700 industries, with restaurants as the largest
market, Breslow said. Revenue in 2012 more than doubled from the
previous year to $37 million, and On Deck will generate $100
million in annual sales by the end of 2013, he said.  The company has about 160 employees, with 100 of them at
the New York headquarters.  With the investment,  Sandy Miller  of Menlo Park,
California-based Institutional Venture Partners is joining On
Deck’s board of directors. Miller’s previous investments include
Internet game company Zynga Inc., online retailer One Kings Lane
and mobile game developer Ngmoco, which was acquired by Japan’s
DeNA Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net ;
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  