-- Monsanto, J.C. Penney, Elsevier: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-02-13T12:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/monsanto-j-c-penney-elsevier-intellectual-property.html
Monsanto Co.  squares off next week
against a 76-year-old Indiana farmer in a U.S. Supreme Court
hearing with implications spanning industries from engineered
fish to biotechnology medicines.  The court will consider whether patent owners can control
the use of products that can make copies of themselves, such as
soybean seeds producing plants bearing new seeds, genetically
modified salmon, live vaccines, or stem cells and bacteria
strains used in medical research.  The Supreme Court has scheduled arguments Feb. 19 in an
appeal of a patent-infringement case by Vernon Hugh Bowman, a
farmer who planted soybean seeds harvested from plants that were
grown from Monsanto’s engineered seeds. The world’s biggest seed
company said Bowman violated a policy forbidding farmers from
saving seeds for replanting rather than buying them anew each
season from Monsanto or a licensee.  Monsanto, based in St. Louis, inserts genes into crops that
allow them to withstand application of the herbicide Roundup.
Farmers who buy so-called Roundup Ready seeds agree to
restrictions on their use.  A victory for Bowman “would potentially kill the seed
industry,” said Peter Corless of Boston’s  Edwards Wildman
Palmer LLP , who specializes in biotechnology patents. “No one
would bother doing the research. If you sold just one round of
seeds, you’d never be able to price high enough to recoup the
costs of development and marketing.”  Monsanto can use sales contracts, rather than patents, to
prevent copying while permitting farmers to save seed for
themselves, the Center for Food Safety, a Washington-based
critic of genetically engineered foods, told the court in a
brief.  The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in
September 2011 rejected Bowman’s arguments that Monsanto’s
rights were exhausted once it sold the seed. The crop from the
planting was a “newly infringing article,” the court ruled in
upholding an $84,456.20 award against Bowman.  Monsanto is trying to claim rights over the seed when its
invention is limited to the gene trait, said a group that
includes the American Antitrust Institute and the National
Farmers Union.  BSA - The Software Alliance, whose members include Apple
Inc. and Microsoft Corp., told the court that eliminating patent
protection for self-replicating seeds could facilitate software
piracy. Research universities and biotechnology companies say a
victory by Bowman would harm their ability to license their work
in cancer research, crop protection and nutrition.  Diagnostic companies including Agilent Technologies Inc.
and Life Technologies Corp. said they often sell items for
research use only, which allows them to charge lower prices by
preventing replication of their products. They asked the court
to uphold Monsanto’s conditions.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  J.C. Penney Seeks Non-Infringement Declaration Over ‘Aspen’ Mark  J.C. Penney Corp. , the 111-year-old retail chain, asked a
federal court in Texas to declare it doesn’t infringe a
trademark belonging to a Florida company.  In a complaint filed Feb. 8, Penney said it received a
cease-and-desist letter from Aspen Licensing International Inc.
objecting to the use of “Aspen” to describe a type of winter
boot sold under Penney’s “The Original Arizona Jean Company”
trademark.  The Plano, Texas-based retailer said it uses “Aspen” only
in a “generic, geographic manner to reinforce the winter theme
of the boots.” It doesn’t use the term “in a trademark
manner,” the company said in its pleadings, adding that the
word “Aspen” is not printed anywhere on the boots that are at
issue.  Penney said customers haven’t been confused by its use of
“Aspen” and that even after sending letters to the Florida
company explaining how it uses the term, it continues to receive
harassing e-mails and telephone calls.  Aspen, based in Boynton Beach, Florida, has asserted that
it’s “entitled to compensation for sales using the Aspen
name,” Penney said in its pleadings.  According to the database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office, Aspen registered “Aspen” for a wide range of uses,
including floor coverings, curtains, towels and linens, water
coolers, jewelry, bath products, watches, clothing, after-ski
boots and luggage.  The company’s website lists companies that have taken a
license to use “Aspen,” including  Aspen Luggage Co., Adidas
AG ’s Rockport unit and Marmot Mountain LLC. Aspen was founded as
a clothing maker in 1949, and phased out manufacturing to focus
on licensing in the 1980s, according to the website.  Aspen didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request for
comment.  The case is J.C. Penney Corp. v. Aspen Licensing
International Inc., 4:13-cv-66, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of Texas (Sherman).  WPP Unit Responds to Trademark Suit, Claims Vendor Is Infringer  An ad agency that helped develop a campaign for used cars
made by  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG  has responded to a trademark
infringement lawsuit filed by the maker of tree-shaped auto air
fresheners.  WPP Plc ’s Grey Global Group said in court filings that it
was told by a supplier that the tree-shaped air fresheners it
supplied didn’t infringe anyone’s intellectual property rights.
Grey Global said the purchase order with the vendor “explicitly
incorporated” its terms with respect to IP rights.  Grey Global was sued in federal court in Manhattan Dec. 7
by  Car-Freshner Corp.  of Watertown, New York, the company that
makes tree-shaped deodorizers for cars. In the past decade, Car-
Freshner has filed more than 30 trademark-infringement suits,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The ad agency said in its court filing that its contract
with the vendor specifically agreed to hold the ad agency and
its client harmless for any claims arising out of a
misrepresentation by the vendor.  Grey Global is seeking a court order holding the vendor
liable for any possible trademark infringement. It also has
asked for awards of attorney fees and litigation costs.  The case is Car Freshner Corp. v. Grey Global Group Inc.,
1:12-cv-09824 U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Reed Elsevier, West Win Dismissal of Copyright Infringement Suit  A federal judge in New York dismissed a copyright
infringement case two attorneys brought against Newton,
Massachusetts-based Reed Elsevier Inc. and  West Publishing Corp. 
of St. Paul, Minnesota.  Edward L. White of Oklahoma City and Kenneth Elan of New
York sued in February 2012, claiming that the publication of
their court filings in West’s “Litigator” and Elsevier’s
LexisNexis legal databases infringed their copyrights.  They objected to the commercial use the two companies made
of their court filings and said they were damaged as a result.
The two lawyers said they represented a class of people who had
been wronged and asked the court to certify their case as a
class action. Additionally, they sought money damages, and an
order barring unauthorized use of their work.  In November, U.S. District Judge Jed S. Rakoff heard oral
arguments on motions to dismiss the case. He filed his order
dismissing the action on Feb. 11. He said that he would issue an
opinion explaining the reasons for his ruling “in due course”
and said the final judgment wouldn’t be entered into the court
record until he issues his opinion.  The case is White V. West Publishing Corp., 1:12-cv-01340,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Digital-Rights Group Warns Against Copyrights on Student Work  A Massachusetts-based digital rights group has responded to
news of a Maryland school district’s proposal to claim
copyrights to teachers’ and students’ work.  Boston’s  Fight For The Future ’s Center For Rights project
set up a “ Don’t Copyright the Classroom ” website aimed at what
it calls “overzealous copyright laws” used “to attack public
education through lawsuits over teachers sharing resources.”  The rights group is arguing through its website that
“forcing copyright on the work that students and teachers
produce will only stifle creativity and innovation in the
classroom.”  The site has a link that users can click to sign an e-mail
petition asking the Prince George’s County Board of Education
not to “copyright your students’ and teachers’ best work.”  Sanctions Threatened in Adult-Film Copyright-Infringement Suit  A federal judge in Los Angeles issued an order threatening
a lawyer representing an adult film company with possible
imprisonment.  The order by U.S. District Judge Otis D. Wright II was made
in a copyright-infringement case Ingenuity 13 LLC brought
against an unidentified defendant. The judge said the order
applied to actions by counsel in five separate cases.  He ordered Brett Langdon Gibbs, the attorney representing
Ingenuity 13 and AF Holdings LLC, to appear in court March 11 to
justify what the judge said were violations of rules of federal
procedure and local court rules. Wright was addressing what he
said was counsel’s “lack of reasonable investigation of
copyright infringement activity,” “lack of reasonable
investigation of actual infringer’s identity” and failure to
comply with local court rules regarding discovery procedures.  He said the film companies failed to demonstrate that the
alleged infringer had actually downloaded the entire copyrighted
work. As far as the identification of the actual infringer is
concerned, Wright said the investigation conducted by counsel
was “haphazard and incomplete” and the factual analysis
“cannot be characterized as anything more than a hunch.”  He suggested ways in which the actual infringer could be
identified, including driving to the Internet subscriber’s home
address and scanning the airwaves to see if the subscriber has
Wi-Fi and has password-protected the Wi-Fi access. “An old-
fashioned stakeout may be in order” to determine who was in the
subscriber’s home at the time of the download, he said.  “This type of investigation required time and effort,
something that would destroy plaintiff’s business model,”
Wright said.  He said he previously expressed concern that in cases
involving pornography, it is highly likely that the accused will
immediately pay a settlement demand to avoid disclosure. “Even
for the innocent, a four-digit settlement makes economic sense
over fighting the lawsuit in court,” he wrote in his order.  The judge reminded counsel that under court rules, he has
the power to fine or imprison attorneys for contempt of the
court’s authority.  Gibbs, of Prenda Law Inc. of Mill Valley, California,
didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request for comment on
the judge’s order.  The case is Ingenuity 13 LLC v. Doe, 2:12-cv-08333, U.S.
District Court, Central District of California (Los Angeles).  For more copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  Sheppard, Mullin Hires Soong for Intellectual Property Group  Sheppard, Mullin, Richter & Hampton LLP  hired James W.
Soong for its IP practice group, the Los Angeles-based firm said
in a  statement .  Soong , who practices both patent litigation and
transactional work, previously practiced at New York’s  Greenberg
Traurig LLP  and Chicago’s  McDermott Will & Emery LLP .  He has represented clients in the software, semiconductor,
Internet-related technology, biomedical device, green
technology, banking and finance industries.  Soon has an undergraduate degree in electrical engineering
from the University of California at Los Angeles and a law
degree from the University of California at Davis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 