-- OPEC Survival Uncertain Amid U.S. Oil Output Growth
-- B y   A s j y l y n   L o d e r
-- 2013-02-13T15:20:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/opec-survival-uncertain-amid-u-s-oil-output-growth.html
A record surge in U.S. oil
production that has moved the country closer to energy
independence threatens the existence of OPEC, according to
analysts at  Citigroup Inc .  “OPEC should find it challenging to survive another 60
years, let alone another decade,” analysts led by  Ed Morse ,
global head of commodities research at Citigroup in New York,
said in a report released today. “The United States should see
its role in the world as a singular superpower enhanced and
prolonged.”  U.S. oil production expanded by a record 790,000 barrels a
day last year, according to the Energy Information
Administration, the statistical arm of the Energy Department. A
shift toward natural gas as a transportation fuel may further
undermine the power of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries, Morse said in the report titled “Energy 2020:
Independence Day.”  Increased output from Canada and Mexico will accelerate a
trend toward North American energy independence, according to
the report.  By the middle of 2013, the U.S. Gulf Coast will no longer
import light, sweet crude, replacing it with supplies from
states such as  North Dakota , Oklahoma and Texas. By the end of
next year, sour Canadian oil will displace imports from Saudi
Arabia, Iraq and Kuwait, according to the report.  The U.S. met 84 percent of its own energy needs in the
first 10 months of last year, on pace to be the highest annual
rate of self-sufficiency since 1991, according to data from the
EIA.  OPEC production fell to the lowest level in a year in
January, the Paris-based International Energy Agency said today
in its monthly report. The 12-member group pumped 30.34 million
barrels a day in January, down 100,000 barrels from December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Asjylyn Loder in New York at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 