-- Horse Meat Find May Mean Other EU Checks Failed, Pig Group Says
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-02-13T17:37:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/horse-meat-find-may-mean-other-eu-checks-failed-pig-group-says.html
The discovery of horse meat in some
European beef products may signal that regulators haven’t been
vigilant in checking meat supplies for other contaminants,
including foot-and-mouth disease, said Richard Longthorp, the
chairman of the U.K. National Pig Association.  Foot-and-mouth disease, last  seen  in the U.K. in 2007, is
potentially fatal for young animals, and affects livestock
including pigs, cattle and goats. Globally, the  disease  costs an
estimated $5 billion annually due to lost production and
vaccination efforts, and can also cause reduced milk yields and
lower fertility, according to the group. Foot-and-mouth disease
doesn’t affect humans.  “My biggest concern is if people are managing to bring
illegal horse meat here, they could bring in meat with diseases,
such as foot-and-mouth,” Longthorp, who’s also a pig farmer
from Howden, England, said today in an interview in London.
“The same lack of control that let horse meat into the country
could lead to instances of foot-and-mouth, and that would
cripple the pig industry.”  Supermarkets in the U.K., France, Ireland and Germany have
removed frozen burgers and some processed beef products from the
shelves amid the discovery of horse meat. The European
Commission has said the supplies could be traced to processors
in Romania, while the country’s agriculture minister said
there’s no indication that the meat was mislabeled there.  “We always knew the food chain was quite long, but we
never knew just how long it really was in some places,”
Longthorp said. “Hopefully coming out of this horse meat scare,
Europe will re-evaluate the cost of cheap food.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  