-- Moscow Exchange Renewal Dims IPO Appeal: Russia Overnight
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2013-02-13T12:30:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/moscow-exchange-renewal-clouds-ipo-appeal-to-prosperity.html
The modernization of the Moscow
Exchange makes forecasting its revenue harder and may deter
foreign investors from buying shares in the bourse, according to
Prosperity Capital Management.  The  exchange , Russia’s main equity and fixed-income market
is being marketed to investors in the U.S. and Europe and its
stock will debut in Moscow Feb. 15, according to a Feb. 4
 statement . The bourse, which was created out of a merger between
competing exchanges in 2011, is seeking to raise at least 15
billion rubles ($499 million) in the initial public offering.  “This IPO is more complicated, it’s not so straightforward
as an IPO by some retail chain or a raw materials producer as it
relates to regulations and functionality of the financial
markets,”  Mattias Westman , who helps oversee about $4 billion
in Russian assets as chief executive officer of Prosperity
Capital in London, said by phone yesterday. “The Russian market
infrastructure is developing very intensively and that might
make it more difficult to estimate future revenue of the
exchange.”  RTS Index  futures  on Moscow’s RTS Index increased 0.4
percent to 158,540 in U.S. hours. The  Bloomberg Russia-US gauge 
rose less than 0.1 percent to 104.15 yesterday. The benchmark
 Micex Index  added 0.5 percent to 1,519.99 by 3:23 p.m. in
Moscow, the first increase in six days. American depositary
receipts of  OAO Sberbank , Russia’s biggest lender, rallied the
most since Jan. 2 in New York, while mobile provider VimpelCom
Ltd. slid for the first time in three days.  Local Investors  The Moscow Exchange IPO will be covered, First Deputy
Central Bank Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev  said in Moscow today.  “The placement has certain specifics, this is a purely
local placement,” Ulyukayev said. “Many investors are just not
ready, they aren’t comfortable, this will be their first
placement of such a sort. But it will help the others planning
to list on this platform.”  The Kremlin-backed Russian Direct Investment Fund will seek
to buy as much as $100 million of stock in the exchange’s IPO,
according to a person with knowledge of the private-equity
fund’s plan, who asked not to be identified because the
information isn’t public.  The bourse set a maximum price of 63 rubles a share and
won’t accept offers of less than 55 rubles, according to the
Feb. 4 statement. It plans to use the proceeds to boost the
capital of its clearing subsidiary, the National Clearing
Center, and for information technology upgrades, it said.  Opening Access  Russia, the world’s largest energy exporter, is seeking to
reform the exchange’s trading systems and open up access to the
local market to lure more foreign capital to the country and
bolster the lowest stock valuations among 21 emerging markets
tracked by Bloomberg.  As of Feb. 7, foreign investors can buy and sell government
ruble-denominated debt known as OFZs via Euroclear Bank SA,
which operates the world’s biggest bond settlement system. The
platform will be opened to stocks from July 2014,  Elena Gusalova , the National Settlement Depository’s director of
research and development, said in November. The bourse will move
to settling trades over two days, from the current immediate
settlement, by the end of 2013,  Sergey Sinkevich , the exchange’s
head of primary markets, said last year.  Revenue Source  Russia also merged its two competing depositories Nov. 6 to
bring settlement procedures in line with international norms.  The IPO will attract local investors, who “understand
their market better,” said Westman, adding that Prosperity is
still analyzing the company and mulling whether to invest.  The introduction of a central depository may over time
undermine one of the exchange’s sources of revenue as it
diminishes the need for repurchase transactions since investors
no longer have to keep their money with the exchange, he said.  Prosperity’s Russia  Domestic Fund , which invests in
securities issued by companies active in the local economies of
Russia and former Soviet nations, has returned 7.6 percent in
2013 and outperformed 94 percent of peers, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Quinn Martin, a Frontier public relations executive
representing the bourse, declined to comment on how the roadshow
is faring or on expectations about demand when contacted by
phone yesterday.  ‘Unique Product’  Companies on the Micex index have an average valuation of
5.7 times estimated earnings, compared with a multiple of 15.6
for India’s  BSE Sensex Index , 11.3 for Brazil’s Bovespa and 10.5
for China’s Shanghai Composite Index, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Russia-domiciled companies have raised $1.91 billion in
IPOs over the past 12 months, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The Moscow Exchange IPO is a unique product and it makes
sense for long-term investors who can wait for further reform of
the market which will lead to more liquidity and business for
the exchange,”  Ilya Kravets , director of investment research at
Daniloff Capital LLC in New York, where he helps manage $100
million of assets including Russian equities, said by phone
yesterday. “In the meantime, there are risks, particularly
risks associated with the structure of its revenue.”  BlackRock Inc. , the world’s biggest asset manager, had
bought shares in the Moscow Exchange from RDIF in September, the
fund said in a statement on Sept. 28. Russia’s Central Bank
holds 22 percent in the exchange, while state-controlled
Sberbank owns 9.6 percent, and Vnesheconombank, Russia’s
development bank, holds 8 percent, according to the exchange’s
website.  ETF Slips  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF , the biggest U.S.-traded
exchange-traded fund that holds Russian shares, declined 0.2
percent to $30.25 yesterday, the lowest level since Jan. 17. The
 RTS Volatility Index , which measures expected swings in the
index futures, retreated 0.9 percent to 22.13.  Sberbank, Russia’s biggest lender, increased 2.9 percent to
$14.67 in New York yesterday, the highest level this month. The
ADRs settled at a 1.5 percent premium to the lender’s Moscow-
listed shares, the widest gap since Jan. 10, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The bank’s  shares  in Moscow added 1.4 percent to
108.49 rubles, or $3.61.  Oil Gains  Futures expiring in March on the ruble showed the currency
0.2 percent stronger at 30.201 per dollar yesterday, as the
ruble gained 0.4 percent versus the dollar in Moscow to 30.04.
The currency strengthened 0.3 percent to 34.7076 against the
 dollar-euro basket  used by the central bank to minimize swings
in the ruble that hurt exporters.  VimpelCom Ltd., owner of Russia’s third-biggest mobile
phone company by subscribers, fell 1.6 percent $12.35 in New
York yesterday.  OAO Mobile TeleSystems, Russia’s biggest mobile-phone
company, rallied 1.6 percent to $20.15 in New York yesterday.
The ADRs traded at a 14 percent  premium  to the Micex-listed
stock, the smallest advantage since Jan. 30.  Oil for March delivery increased 0.5 percent to $97.51 a
barrel in New York yesterday, the highest level since Feb. 1.
Brent oil climbed 0.4 percent to $118.66 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange, while  Urals crude  rose 0.4
percent to $116.75.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  