-- Total Pledges 2013 Production Growth After Profit Rises 13%
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-02-13T12:34:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/total-fourth-quarter-earnings-rise-13-on-higher-oil-prices.html
Total SA , Europe’s third-largest oil
producer, expects production to increase as much as 3 percent
this year after reporting a 13 percent rise in 2012 profit on an
improved refining performance.  Profit excluding changes in inventories advanced to 3.1
billion euros ($4.2 billion) in the fourth quarter from 2.7
billion euros a year earlier, the Paris-based company said today
in a statement. That compares with the 3 billion-euro average
estimate of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The company continues to improve visibility on production
growth,” Bernstein Research analysts including  Oswald Clint 
wrote in a note.  Chief Executive Officer  Christophe de Margerie  has pledged
to raise production from new fields and explore more
aggressively for reserves to revive output growth. He has also
focused on selling assets such as Total’s pipeline network in
south western France as part of a plan to raise as much as $20
billion. Total sold $6 billion of assets last year and expects
to reach $15 billion at the end of 2013.  “2012 proves we are moving in the right direction to
compete,” de Margerie told a press conference. Recent
discoveries are the “start of a new chapter,” he said.  Total was little changed at 38.40 euros as of 1:07 p.m. in
Paris. The stock is down 6.4 percent in the past year.  Production fell 4 percent to 2.293 million barrels of oil
equivalent a day in the quarter because of a shutdown at the
Elgin platform in the North Sea and flooding in Nigeria. Full-
year output dropped 2 percent. Net investment will be $22
billion in 2013, matching the previous two years, Total said.  Shell, BP  Royal Dutch Shell Plc, the biggest European oil company,
reported earnings below analysts’ expectations as lower North
American fuel prices hurt profits. BP Plc said fourth-quarter
profit declined as oil and natural gas production slipped while
Exxon Mobil Corp., the world’s largest energy company by market
value, beat expectations on the strength of U.S. refining.  The explorer is investing in projects from shale drilling
in the U.S. and Argentina to oil sands in Canada, a refinery in
the Middle East and offshore gas projects in Australia.  Production last year was hurt by a natural-gas leak at the
Elgin platform that forced the evacuation and shutdown of the
North Sea deposits. The company is seeking to resume operations
at the fields this quarter.  “We are optimistic” for a restart soon of the Elgin
field, de Margerie said at a press conference. The explorer is
waiting for permission from the U.K. Health and Safety Executive
and is ready to begin output at four wells at the field.  Output Growth  The company kept a target to increase output by an average
of 3 percent a year from 2011 to 2015 and said production growth
may be 2 percent to 3 percent this year. It also maintained a
longer-term goal of reaching about 3 million barrels of oil
equivalent a day in 2017.  Total is planning to begin output at five fields this year
including Sulige, Anguille, Angola LNG, Kashagan and OML 58
Upgrade, according to a presentation.  Total is pushing to make larger discoveries by drilling
more exploration wells. It counted four “significant”
discoveries last year including Vaca Muerta in Argentina, Eben
in Nigeria, King Lear in Norway and the North Platte in the Gulf
of Mexico.  The exploration budget will be $2.8 billion this year, up
10 percent from 2012, with more than 60 wells to be drilled in
the next 12 months in more than a dozen countries including
Ivory Coast, Gabon, Kenya and Brazil. Total’s reserve
replacement rate was 93 percent last year.  Best Assets  Total “has the best exploration assets of any of the
majors,” according to the Bernstein report.  Refining and chemicals reported adjusted operating income
in the fourth quarter of 449 million euros, compared with a loss
of 126 million euros a year earlier. Brent crude prices, the
benchmark for two-thirds of the world, were the highest ever on
average last year at $111.68 a barrel.  The European refining margin indicator was $34 a ton in the
fourth quarter, up from $15.10 a ton a year earlier and down
from $51 a ton the previous quarter.  Total reiterated a plan to start the Jubail refinery in
Saudi Arabia this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  