-- Total in ‘Advanced Talks’ to Sign China Shale Gas Agreement
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l   a n d   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-02-14T01:54:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/total-in-advanced-talks-to-sign-china-shale-exploration-deal.html
Total SA  is preparing to sign an
agreement, possibly within days, with a Chinese partner to
explore for shale gas in the Asian country.  “We are in very advanced talks with a big Chinese company
for shale gas,”  Yves-Louis Darricarrere , head of exploration
and production at Total, Europe’s third-biggest energy company,
said yesterday in an interview. “I hope we can announce
something very shortly.” Darricarrere declined to identify the
partner.  An accord would follow a memorandum of understanding signed
with China Petroleum & Chemical Corp., known as Sinopec, last
year. Darricarrere described the nature of that deal at the time
as being intended for “technical studies.”  Sinopec is a “natural choice” for a partnership with
Total in China as the country seeks to emulate the U.S. shale
boom,  Gordon Kwan , the head of energy research at Mirae Asset
Securities Ltd. in Hong Kong, said today in a phone interview.  “The geology is more complex in China, and it needs
foreign technology,” he said. “China would welcome Total’s
experience overseas to expedite development of what is estimated
to be the world’s largest shale gas resources.”  Total can’t explore for shale gas in France because of a
ban on hydraulic fracturing, the extraction method that’s raised
the U.S. to the top spot in natural-gas output. A deal in China
would come as the French company prepares to begin output at a
tight gas field in Inner Mongolia called Sulige this year with
China National Petroleum Corp.  Unlock Reserves  Chinese interest in shale, a dense rock formation that
holds oil and gas, comes as the nation seeks the technology to
unlock its own reserves.  China holds 25.1 trillion cubic meters (886 trillion cubic
feet) of exploitable shale reserves, the country’s Ministry of
Land and Resources said last year. The U.S. Energy Information
Administration has said China may hold 1,275 trillion cubic feet
of technically recoverable gas, almost 50 percent more than the
U.S.  Sinopec and  ConocoPhillips  signed an agreement for
exploration, development and production of shale gas in a block
in the Sichuan basin in southwest China, parent China
Petrochemical Corp. said in an online newsletter in December.
The deal followed a shale-gas production sharing contract signed
in March between Royal Dutch Shell Plc and CNPC.  The Hague-based Shell may increase its planned annual
spending of about $1 billion on unconventional gas projects in
China, depending on exploration and test-well results and if
Shell gets more acreage to drill, Chief Executive Officer Peter
Voser said in Beijing in November.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net ;
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  