-- Mourinho Eyes Premier League Return After Madrid: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-02-13T06:12:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/mourinho-eyes-premier-league-return-after-madrid-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers with clickable Internet links.  Premier League Return  Real Madrid coach  Jose Mourinho  said he wants to return to
the Premier League when he leaves the Spanish club, though
doesn’t envisage taking over from  Alex Ferguson , 71, as
Manchester United manager, the  Sun reported .  “After Real Madrid, I’d like to manage in England,” the
Sun cited Mourinho as saying. “I don’t think I will succeed Sir
Alex. I think we will finish our careers more or less at the
same time. He will be 90 and I will be 70.”  Wanyama Scouted  Arsenal is scouting Celtic’s Victor Wanyama with a view to
signing the holding midfielder in the offseason, the  Daily
Telegraph reported .  The Gunners have identified the Kenyan as a transfer
priority and sent a scout to watch him last night in Celtic’s
Champions League loss to Juventus, the newspaper said, adding
that a striker and a right-back are the other priorities.  Mindless Signing  Queens Park Rangers “lost their minds” by paying Anzhi
Makhachkala 12.5 million pounds ($19.6 million) for defender
 Chris Samba  last month, the  Independent cited  a director of the
Russian club as saying.  “At QPR he will earn almost as much as he did at Anzhi,”
the newspaper cited Anzhi director  German Tkachenko  as saying.
“In my view QPR have lost their minds. When they agreed to pay
his release fee we wept. He wept.”  Lampard to L.A.?  Los Angeles Galaxy striker  Robbie Keane  wants the Major
League Soccer team to sign  Frank Lampard  as a replacement for
 David Beckham , who left in December, the  Daily Mail reported .  Keane said England midfielder Lampard, whose Chelsea
contract is due to expire at the end of this season, is the type
of “big-name player” the Galaxy needs, the newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  