-- Overseas Shipholding Owes $463 Million Taxes; Bonds Drop
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 2013-02-13T17:44:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/overseas-shipholding-owes-irs-463-million-government-says.html
Overseas Shipholding Group Inc. , the
largest U.S. tanker operator, owes $463 million in U.S. taxes
and interest, the Internal Revenue Service said. The bankrupt
company’s bonds plunged.  The company owes $27.9 million in interest on
$435.1 million of taxes, the IRS said in papers filed Feb. 11
with Kurtzman Carson Consultants LLC, the agent processing
claims for Overseas. The IRS labeled it an unsecured priority
claim, meaning that the agency wants it paid ahead of other
unsecured and lower-ranking debts.  “The bonds could be worth zero or very little if that
claim were sustained,”  Oliver Corlett , an analyst at RW
Pressprich & Co. in New York, said by phone.  Overseas, based in New York, filed for bankruptcy last year
after global shipping rates fell and the company gave up trying
to win a federal loan guarantee. Overseas listed assets of $4.15
billion and debt of $2.67 billion in its Chapter 11 petition in
U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Delaware.  The company’s 8.125 percent senior unsecured bonds due in
March 2018 fell as much as 8.9 cents to 30 cents on the dollar
in New York, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system
of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The price was
the lowest since the securities traded at 23 cents on Nov. 14.  Daniel H. Golden , an attorney for Overseas, and Chuck
Burgess, a company spokesman, didn’t immediately return calls
seeking comment on the claim.  Federal Rules  Grant Williams, a spokesman for the IRS, declined to
comment, citing federal rules prohibiting the agency from
publicly talking about individual taxpayers.  In bankruptcy, companies have the right to challenge claims
filed by creditors. In the Overseas case, should the IRS
prevail, the claim would outrank the claims of bondholders,
Corlett said.  “That’s the worst-case scenario,”  Ken Luskin , President
of Intrinsic Value Asset Management Inc. in Santa Monica,
California, said of the size of the IRS claim. “You are going
to put in the largest claim you can consider.”  The claim will help investors value Overseas securities by
making the company’s liabilities more certain, Luskin said.  CEO Replaced  Overseas announced Feb. 11 that it replaced Morten Arntzen,
who had been chief executive officer for nine years. Robert
Johnston, head of the company’s U.S.-flag business, took over as
CEO, the company said in a statement.  Last year, Overseas withdrew an application for a
$241.8 million loan guarantee to help pay for two tankers built
at U.S. shipyards after Bloomberg News reported that the
company’s ships were calling at Iran’s largest oil terminal and
U.S. House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  asked the Transportation
Department to reject the application.  After that, the company was shut out of credit markets,
partly because it said in an  Oct. 22  regulatory report that
investors couldn’t rely on its financial statements for the past
three years, Overseas said in court papers.  The case is In re Overseas Shipholding Group Inc., 12-
bk-20000, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  