-- Owner of Presidential Yacht, Lender Agree to Truce
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2013-02-13T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/owner-of-presidential-yacht-lender-agree-to-truce.html
The owner of the former U.S.
presidential yacht  Sequoia  reached an agreement with a lender
for a 60-day cease-fire in a dispute over a $5 million loan.  The two sides will keep the status quo temporarily while
the case plays out in court, a lawyer for Sequoia’s owner and a
lawyer for the lender said yesterday in separate e-mails. The
accord couldn’t immediately be verified in court documents.  “We agreed to do so for 60 days, to provide more time to
get to the actual merits of the dispute and because our current
exercise notice of the option to purchase the Sequoia sets
December 1 as the date on which the exercise would be
completed,” Richard Graf, a Washington-based lawyer for the
lender, FE Partners LLC, said in an e-mail.  Larry Hutcher , an attorney for the yacht’s owner with the
law firm Davidoff Hutcher & Citron LLP, said the agreement was
reached after both sides made arguments to Delaware Chancery
Court Judge  Sam Glasscock III .  Gary Silversmith, president of the partnership that bought
the vessel in 2000, sued FE Partners on Feb. 1, accusing the
lender of wrongfully attempting to seize the 88-year-old vessel
in a dispute over its loan. The owners asked a judge to bar FE
Partners, whose investors include an Indian business family,
from laying claim to the 104-foot boat.  Half the Loan  FE Partners funded only half the loan before manufacturing
defaults in an attempt to seize the yacht, lawyers for Sequoia
Presidential Yacht Group LLC said in the complaint.  The lender countered in court papers that the Silversmith
partnership’s outstanding debt and mounting legal violations
triggered defaults on the loan.  L. Michael Cantor, a director for FE Partners, said in an
affidavit that the lender uncovered “a string of outstanding
unpaid debts and legal violations,” triggering a modification
to the loan agreement. The changes included an increase in the
initial interest rate and a decrease in the price at which FE
was entitled to purchase the Sequoia or Silversmith’s interest
in the vessel.  The amended agreement also called for an additional 40
percent decrease in the purchase price if FE Partners gave
notice of its intention to exercise its purchase option at the
time of a default.  Court Order  Silversmith is seeking a court order forcing FE Partners to
accept full payment of the monies paid out so far and release
its lien against the Sequoia so that a new lender can be found,
Hutcher said.  Lawyers will decide on a schedule for gathering pre-trial
evidence later this week, he said.  Built in 1925, the Sequoia served as the official
presidential yacht for 50 years before former President  Jimmy Carter , a Democrat, sold the vessel in 1977 as part of an effort
to cut governmental expenses. The wooden-hulled yacht was
designated as a National Historic Landmark in 1987.  The Sequoia served more than nine presidents including
 Harry Truman , who was allegedly on board when he decided to drop
the atomic bomb on Hiroshima, according to a history of the
vessel on the Sequoia group’s website. President  Dwight D. Eisenhower  allowed Britain’s  Queen Elizabeth  to use the yacht
during a visit, and  Winston Churchill  spent time with  Franklin D. Roosevelt  on the Sequoia.  Poker Game  Truman once became so enraged during a poker game that he
damaged a table with a cigar cutter, according to the Sequoia
website. He later installed a piano in the main salon where he
and  Richard Nixon  both played.  Nixon used the Sequoia on at least 88 occasions often
sailing down the Potomac River to Mount Vernon. During
Watergate, he allegedly believed the vessel was bugged and
demanded that an electronic shield be built around the entire
yacht requiring small pinholes drilled six inches apart on the
entire railing, according to the website.  President  John F. Kennedy , the crew’s favorite, also
celebrated his last birthday on the yacht, according to the
history.  The case is Sequoia Presidential Yacht Group LLC v. FE
Partners LLC, CA 8270, Delaware Chancery Court.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Georgetown, Delaware at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  