-- Toyota Joins GM in Showing Auto-Quality Gains in Study
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2013-02-14T00:20:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/toyota-joins-gm-in-showing-auto-quality-gains-in-study.html
Toyota Motor Corp.  led automakers
with the fewest problems reported by U.S. owners of its three-
year-old cars, while  General Motors Co.  and  Honda Motor Co.  also
fielded models that topped their segments.  Toyota’s Lexus luxury brand led the industry for the second
straight year, its namesake line tied for third, and seven of
its models topped their segments. Strides by  Toyota ,  GM  and
 Honda  helped reduce the industry average for problems per 100
vehicles to 126, the fewest in the 24-year history of J.D. Power
& Associates’ Vehicle Dependability Study. J.D. Power released
the latest edition of the study yesterday.  Automakers’ ability to retain their customers hinges on the
reliability of their vehicles, Westlake Village, California-
based  J.D. Power  said in a statement. The researcher said 54
percent of owners who experience no problems with their vehicle
stick with the same brand on their next purchase. Just 41
percent are loyal if they report three or more problems.  “It’s very clear that the more problems somebody has, the
less likely they will be to buy the same brand of vehicle
again,”  David Sargent , vice president of global automotive
research at J.D. Power, said in a telephone interview. “When
manufacturers are fighting for every decimal point of market
share, that’s a pretty powerful message.”  Toyota Models  Toyota’s RAV4 sport-utility vehicle and Sienna minivan were
among the Toyota City, Japan-based automaker’s seven vehicles
that topped their segments, J.D. Power said. The automaker led
the industry even though several of its 2010 models were among
the 10 million vehicles that were recalled to fix defects
related to unintended acceleration and that performed poorly in
the market researcher’s study of new-car quality.  “There was a perception that there were these Toyotas
falling apart all over the place,” Sargent said. “The reality
was there were a relatively small number of well-publicized
issues. A lot of Toyota owners were very concerned their vehicle
might have problems, but most of them actually didn’t.”  GM followed  Toyota  with four models winning segment awards,
and the Detroit-based automaker matched the industry average on
an overall basis, Sargent said. This is the first year since
2005 that GM on a companywide basis didn’t score below the
industry average, he said.  GM’s Winners  The GMC Sierra pickup, Chevrolet Camaro sporty midsize car,
Chevy Tahoe SUV and Buick Lucerne large sedan all topped their
respective categories. Cadillac was  GM ’s only brand that didn’t
improve both in ranking and average number of problems.  As GM’s quality has improved, investors have placed greater
value on its stock relative to sales compared with the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index. Toyota’s market value relative to sales is
trading at the lowest discount to the S&P 500 in almost three
years.  Honda ’s Crosstour midsize SUV and Acura RDX small luxury
crossover led their respective segments, and both of the Tokyo-
based automaker’s brands had better scores than a year earlier.  The industry’s improving quality may help draw consumers
back into showrooms after they delayed purchases during the
recession, increasing the average age of vehicles on U.S. roads
to almost 11 years, according to researchers  R.L. Polk & Co.  and
Experian Automotive.  “It is virtually certain that new vehicles being sold
today will be even more reliable in three years,” J.D. Power’s
Sargent said in the statement.  Porsche Second  Volkswagen AG ’s Porsche owners reported 94 problems per 100
vehicles, second only to Lexus’s 71. Toyota’s namesake brand and
 Ford Motor Co. ’s Lincoln luxury line tied for third at 112.
Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford’s namesake brand had an average
score of 127, one point below the industry average and two
points behind GM’s Chevrolet.  Daimler AG ’s Mercedes-Benz jumped one spot to fifth place
in the rankings, with 115 problems per 100 vehicles. Mercedes
again topped rival  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG , which ranked
below the industry average for the fourth consecutive year with
a score of 133.  Chrysler Group LLC’s Ram was the most improved brand from a
year earlier, with the truck brand’s average problems
experienced per 100 vehicles plunging by 52 points to 122. Ram
also jumped 20 spots to place ninth among all nameplates.  Three of Auburn Hills, Michigan-based Chrysler’s other
brands were among the study’s seven worst-ranked names. Ram’s
2010 model year light-duty truck was the first product that the
company targeted to improve quality after its 2009 bankruptcy
and alliance with  Fiat SpA , Sargent said.  “Chrysler has now applied that approach to the other
products,” he said. “We would hope to see the Chrysler Group
products improve fairly rapidly over the next few years.”  The industry’s average of 126 problems per 100 vehicles
from the 2010 model year compares with  132  in last year’s study
and  151  the year before. U.S. automakers narrowed the gap of
scores compared with import brands to 10 problems from 13 a year
earlier, according to J.D. Power.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Craig Trudell  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  