-- T-Mobile, P4 Win Polish Tender to Offer Faster Services
-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 2013-02-13T15:34:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/p4-t-mobile-win-polish-auction-to-offer-faster-services.html
Deutsche Telekom AG ’s local unit and
P4 Sp. z o.o., Poland’s third- and fourth-largest mobile-phone
operators, won a tender to buy 1,800 MHz frequencies and offer
faster wireless services in the country.  Polska Telefonia Cyfrowa SA, which operates under the T-
Mobile brand name,  will pay  453.5 million zloty ($147 million)
for two frequency bands, while P4 offered 498 million zloty for
three bands,  Magdalena Gaj , Poland’s phone regulator, said at a
press conference in Warsaw today.  Faster networks are key for carriers as consumers flock to
smartphones such as Apple Inc.’s iPhone and handsets based on
Google Inc.’s Android system to download music, watch videos
online and surf the Web. The Polish companies will build LTE, or
long-term evolution, Internet and compete with billionaire
 Zygmunt Solorz-Zak ’s Polkomtel Sp. z o.o., the only operator
currently offering such services in Poland.  “As a result of the tender, it won’t take more than 12
months for new players to emerge on the high-speed Internet
market,” the regulator said in the statement.  The winners have seven days to confirm their plans to buy
frequencies, Gaj said. Key for the regulator was to boost
competition while deciding who will buy the frequencies.  More Sales  Poland will also offer spectrum in two separate frequency
bands of 800 MHz and 2,600 MHz later this year. The offered
price will be the main criterion at these auctions, Gaj said in
September. The government may raise 1.3 billion zloty to 4
billion zloty from the sale of the 800 MHz frequency, according
to the Ministry of Administration and Digitization’s  website .  Telekomunikacja Polska SA , Poland’s biggest phone company
and a unit of France Telecom SA, failed to buy frequencies at
the tender after offering a total of 278 million zloty for 2
bands, Gaj said. The company, whose bids came sixth and seventh,
and the Deutsche Telekom unit have an agreement to share mobile-
phone network in Poland.  “Telekomunikacja can’t afford to give up on LTE,”
 Przemyslaw Sawala-Uryasz , an analyst at UniCredit SpA, said by
phone today. “They might place a stronger bid for 800 MHz,”
which is “more important” as it allows to “cover bigger areas
with fewer towers.”  Telekomunikacja fell 28 percent in Warsaw yesterday as it
cut its 2012 dividend plan, citing payments for new frequencies
as one of the reasons. The company estimates it will spend 1
billion zloty to 2 billion zloty to buy new frequencies.  P4, owned by  Thor Bjorgolfsson ’s Novator and Tollerton
fund, is the smallest and latest entrant of the four operators
with 7.8 million customers.  Telekomunikacja is the first alternate for an 1800 MHz band
and will purchase one if P4 or Polska Telefonia don’t buy, its
spokesman  Wojciech Jabczynski  said in a  statement  posted on the
company’s website. The company’s priority is to win 800 MHz and
2,600 MHz frequencies later this year, he said.  P4 wants all three frequencies and will finance the
purchase with own funds and bank debt, Chief Strategy Officer
 Jacek Jakub Nieweglowski  said in a TVN CNBC television interview
today. Polska Telefonia is “ready” to use the frequencies,
Chief Executive Officer Miroslav Rakowski said in an e-mailed
statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  