-- Indonesia’s Palm Oil Exports Seen Poised for 4-Month Low
-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a   a n d   E k o   L i s t i y o r i n i
-- 2013-02-14T08:53:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/palm-oil-exports-from-indonesia-seen-falling-to-four-month-low.html
Palm oil shipments from Indonesia,
the world’s largest grower, may decline to the lowest level in
four months in February as more buyers turn to Malaysia after it
extended duty-free shipments to clear record stockpiles. Futures
fell to a two-week low.  Exports will probably drop 5.6 percent to 1.51 million
metric tons from January, according to the median of estimates
from three plantation companies, one analyst and one refiner
compiled by Bloomberg. Output may slide 8 percent to 2 million
tons, while inventories contract 14 percent to 3 million tons.  Malaysia, the second-biggest producer, set the tax on crude
exports at zero for January and February after revamping tariffs
to try to clear the  reserves . Prices in Kuala Lumpur, which lost
23 percent last year, advanced 2.3 percent in 2013 amid
speculation holdings will drop as exports gain and supply
shrinks. India, the top buyer, introduced an import tariff last
month, while Indonesia raised its export tax for February.  “Malaysia is more competitive,” said  Eddy Martono , a
director at Jakarta-based planter PT Mega Karya Nusa. “We’re
hit by double taxation, with India imposing an import tariff and
Indonesia raising the export tax.”  The Indonesian Palm Oil Association, known as Gapki, will
release its estimate for January’s exports at the end of this
month, and follow with the February figure in March. The group,
which forecasts prices will rally this year as demand increases,
doesn’t issue data on output or reserves. Stockpiles of 3.5
million tons in January, according to an earlier Bloomberg
survey, were the largest since the surveys began last May.  ‘Big Concern’  “High inventories are a big concern,” said  Helmy Kristanto , an analyst at PT Danareksa Sekuritas, who didn’t
contribute to the survey. “But historically output is falling
in January and February, and stockpiles follow this trend” as
estates enter the low-production season, he said by phone.  Futures on the Malaysia Derivatives Exchange, the regional
benchmark, lost 2.2 percent yesterday after the country’s Palm
Oil Board released data for reserves, shipments and output in
January. Stockpiles fell 1.9 percent from a record to 2.58
million tons, a smaller decline than forecast. Exports eased 1.6
percent as production dropped 10 percent, it said. Prices
extended losses by 0.5 percent to 2,492 ringgit ($807) a ton
today, the lowest level in two weeks.  Indonesia, which set the export duty at 9 percent for this
month from 7.5 percent in January, will keep its tax policy for
now, Deputy Trade Minister  Bayu Krisnamurthi  said on Feb. 7.
India introduced a 2.5 percent tariff on imports last month to
protect local oilseed growers.  ‘Last Long’  Prices in Malaysia should bottom in the second quarter,
then rebound as “high inventories are unlikely to last long,”
HSBC Holdings Plc said in a report on Feb. 7.  Dwight Anderson ,
founder of hedge fund Ospraie Management LLC, said in December
that palm was one of his top commodity picks for 2013.  The February export estimate for Indonesia would be the
lowest since October, when shipments reached 1.42 million tons,
according to data from Gapki. Executive Director  Fadhil Hasan 
said in a Feb. 5 interview prices may rebound this year as
demand recovers in India and China.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net ;
Eko Listiyorini in Jakarta at 
 elistiyorini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  