-- Path to Citizenship Would Aid Security, Napolitano Says
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2013-02-14T01:48:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/path-to-citizenship-would-aid-security-napolitano-says.html
Creating a path to citizenship for
11 million undocumented immigrants in the U.S. would help law
enforcement officials focus on those who pose the greatest
security threat, said Homeland Security Secretary  Janet Napolitano .  At a Senate hearing on plans to rewrite U.S. immigration
law, Napolitano fielded questions from Republicans on whether
the Obama administration was doing enough to secure the border
with Mexico.  Pressed by Judiciary Committee Chairman  Patrick Leahy , a
Vermont Democrat, Napolitano said establishing a path to
citizenship would keep Immigration and Customs Enforcement
officials from having to concentrate their efforts on otherwise
law-abiding individuals.  “It takes out of the enforcement area those who have
longstanding relationships with the country, who have been here
for years, who are already working, paying their taxes and the
like,” Napolitano said. “It allows us to focus enforcement
resources on those who are here committing other crimes and who
are really dangerous to our public safety and our security.”  The secretary’s comments followed President  Barack Obama ’s
demand in his State of the Union address last night that
Congress pass an immigration overhaul that increases border
security and creates a road to citizenship.  “Let’s get this done,” Obama said. “Send me a
comprehensive immigration reform bill in the next few months,
and I will sign it right away.”  ‘Right Away’  Senate Democratic leaders have said passing an immigration
measure before Congress’s August recess is a top priority.
Democrats control the Senate 55-45. An immigration overhaul may
face a rockier road in the Republican-controlled House, where a
bipartisan group also is crafting legislation.  “Our window of opportunity will not stay open long,”
Leahy said. “If we are going to act on this issue, we must do
so without delay.”  Obama and a bipartisan Senate group working on immigration
legislation have endorsed providing a way to citizenship for
those who don’t have criminal records, have paid taxes, pay a
fine and learn English.  The four Democratic members of the Senate group --   Richard Durbin  of Illinois,  Charles Schumer  of New York,  Robert Menendez 
of New Jersey and  Michael Bennet  of Colorado -- met with Obama
today to discuss their progress in advancing a bipartisan
measure, according to a White House statement.  Republican Opposition  Widespread Republican opposition to a citizenship plan
helped scuttle a 2007 effort to overhaul immigration policy.
That opposition has lessened since the November election, in
which Obama won 71 percent of the Hispanic vote.  Still, Republicans pressed Napolitano for assurances that
more would be done to secure the border.  “You’ve got to have a secure border,” said South Carolina
Senator  Lindsey Graham , one of four Republicans in the
bipartisan Senate group.  Other laws would be useless if someone “can still walk
across the street” to enter the country, Graham said.  The last major immigration overhaul, signed by President
 Ronald Reagan  in 1986, made 3 million undocumented workers
eligible for legal status and created a market for fraudulent
documentation. Illegal immigration soared, casting a shadow on
subsequent efforts to legalize immigrants.  ‘Previous Mistakes’  “We need to learn from our previous mistakes so that we
truly don’t have to revisit the problem,” said Iowa Senator
 Charles Grassley , the Judiciary Committee’s top Republican.
“First and foremost, we need enforcement of the laws on the
books.”  Grassley said the administration was turning “a blind eye
to sanctuary cities,” referring to municipalities that don’t
allow local funds to be used to enforce federal immigration
laws. He said the U.S. should create a biometric tracking system
to target foreign nationals who overstay their visas.  Republicans have said they won’t agree to a path to
citizenship unless the U.S. first makes measurable increases in
border security.  Napolitano said border enforcement is “light years away
from what it was in 1986.” She said the number of border
security agents rose to more than 21,000 from about 3,000, about
650 miles of border fencing was added, and the number of
individuals removed from the country annually increased to about
409,000 last year from 25,000.  Protesters Removed  The hearing was repeatedly interrupted by protesters. Just
after Napolitano started speaking, Capitol Police escorted about
a half-dozen people shouting in English and Spanish from the
packed room.  Later, three men wearing green placards that said “Migrant
Justice” on their backs were removed after they stood up to
make a silent protest, blocking audience members’ views of the
proceedings.  Another issue that threatens to derail immigration
legislation is Democrats’ endorsement of equal treatment for
same-sex couples when one partner is from outside the country.  At today’s hearing, Leahy drew a firm line in support of
such a provision, which Republicans oppose.  “Any legislation that comes before the Senate Judiciary
Committee should recognize the rights of all Americans,
including gay and lesbian Americans who have just as much right
to spousal immigration benefits as anyone else,” he said.  The Judiciary Committee may begin considering immigration
legislation next month.  A Washington Post poll conducted Jan. 31-Feb. 10 showed
that seven in 10 people surveyed said they would support a path
to citizenship, including 60 percent of Republicans. Support
dropped to 59 percent, and 39 percent among Republicans, when
the same question was asked of a separate sample of respondents
with Obama’s name attached to it.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  