-- Perry Goes to California for Jobs After Brown 'Fart' Remark
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2013-02-13T20:14:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/perry-cited-texas-tax-differences-in-california-recruiting-trip.html
First,  California  Governor  Jerry Brown  mocked a Texas ad campaign to lure jobs from his state as
a “burp, barely a fart.”  Then  Texas  Governor  Rick Perry  escalated the battle with a
four-day recruiting trip to Brown’s state, capped by a news
conference today to boast of his efforts.  It’s part of a long-running battle over which of the
country’s two most populous states -- California is biggest,
followed by Texas -- has the best climate to attract jobs.  “It’s not about bashing California, it’s about promoting
Texas,” said Perry, 62, a Republican, on a conference call with
reporters. “The ad campaign is doing what it was intended to
do: get people talking about the differences of California and
Texas.”  Perry made the trip after starting a radio ad campaign in
California that criticized the state for a recent tax increase
championed by Brown, a Democrat.  Last week, Brown, 74, said of Perry’s $24,000 radio
advertising buy: “It’s barely a fart. If they want to get into
the game, let them spend $25 million, then I will take them
seriously.”  ‘Thoughtful’ Responses  Asked today about the Brown’s comment, Perry said, “we
should all be thoughtful as we respond.”  Perry, speaking on the conference call from Laguna Beach,
said he hosted a reception yesterday with representatives from
about 200 companies, without specifying which ones.  Perry said he touted a low-tax, business-friendly
regulatory climate in Texas. He said he sought to draw a
contrast with California by describing its higher income taxes
for top earners and a recently increased sales tax.  Texas had a  6.1  percent unemployment rate as of December,
compared with  9.8  percent in California. Texas’s gross domestic
product is $1.31 trillion versus California’s $1.96 trillion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Workplace Injuries  Asked why Texas has the most U.S. workplace fatalities and
injuries, Perry said his state has dangerous jobs related to
energy production.  “You in California aren’t very knowledgeable about the
energy industry,” he said. “We do have our fair share of on-
site injuries, but it’s not because of a lack of regulation.”  Elizabeth Ashford, a Brown spokeswoman, responded to
Perry’s visit by naming Texas companies that expanded operations
in California, including Round Rock-based computer maker Dell
Inc.  “We hope Governor Perry enjoyed his visit to the Golden
State,” Ashford said in an e-mail.  Brown labeled Perry’s trip a political stunt, saying
California added 257,000 private-sector jobs last year.  “Poaching doesn’t work,” Brown said in a statement on the
Governor’s Office of Business and Economic Development website.
“This is something so many governors have done before and with
the same ineffective results.”  Perry is returning to Texas today, said Josh Havens, a
spokesman.  Governor of Texas since December 2000, Perry unsuccessfully
sought the Republican presidential nomination last year.  Brown previously served as California’s governor from 1975
to 1983 and won his current term in 2010. He unsuccessfully
sought the Democratic presidential nomination in 1976, 1980 and
1992.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  