-- Peru Archaeologists Discover 5,000-Year-Old Temple in Lima
-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 2013-02-13T22:06:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/peruvian-archaeologists-discover-5-000-year-old-temple-in-lima.html
Peruvian archaeologists discovered a
temple in Lima that may predate  Stonehenge  and be the oldest
known in the Americas.  The rectangular stone building in the  El Paraiso 
archaeological complex in the north of the capital may date to
3000 B.C., Deputy Culture Minister Rafael Varon said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday. The temple was found inside a
complex of 10 buildings that were first explored in 1965.  The building, which covers an area of 48 square meters (517
square feet) and was plastered with a mud layer and decorated
with red paint, may be as old as Caral, a 5,000-year-old temple
north of Lima discovered in 2001, said Jose Hudtwalcker, an
archaeologist at the Riva y Aguero Institute in Lima. At 3,000
BC the temple would predate the  Step Pyramid  in Egypt and
Stonehenge in England.  “This was the pre-Ceramic Period, when civilizations lived
off fishing and basic agriculture,” Hudtwalcker, author of the
forthcoming book on coastal Peruvian civilizations -- “San
Lorenzo Island: Territory & Encounters” -- said today by phone.
“Carbon dating will make it definitive, but I wouldn’t be
surprised if it was at least as old as Caral.”  Workers discovered a fireplace in the center of the
construction, nicknamed the Temple of Fire, that may have been
used for sacrificial offerings of shellfish and agricultural
produce, said Marco Guillen, who headed the team of
archaeologists who made the find.  More discoveries  “Fire was the main part of their rituals, which used smoke
to communicate with their gods,” Guillen said today in a
telephone interview. “El Paraiso will provide many more
discoveries as we’ve only explored 1 percent of the area.”  The Culture Ministry hopes to eventually make the complex a
tourist attraction, said Guillen, who is in charge of a four-
and-a-half-year research project at the site. The government has
pledged to provide additional security to prevent theft and
illegal urban settlements, he said.  Peru, best-known for the  Inca Empire  that lasted for a
century until the Spanish Conquest of 1532, was previously
dominated by civilizations such as Chavin, Wari-Tiahuanaco and
Mochica. Those civilizations came after the people who built El
Paraiso and Caral.  At the time of the conquest, Lima was dotted with 400
temples, according to the  Patronato de Lima , an entity dedicated
to the conservation of the capital’s monuments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Emery in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 