-- Pfizer to Novartis Seen Gaining as Drought Ends: Health
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2013-02-13T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/pfizer-to-novartis-seen-gaining-as-drought-ends-health.html
Pharmaceutical stocks, which have
soared in the past year to valuations not seen since 2001, are
poised to extend their rally as investors grow more confident
the industry has weathered a decade-long shortage of new drugs.  Large pharmaceutical stocks such as Sanofi, Novartis AG and
 Pfizer Inc.  are still cheaper relative to next year’s estimated
earnings than are market benchmarks such as the U.S.’s Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  A fundamental change in the way pharmaceutical companies
are positioned leaves room for shares to erase that gap and rise
another 20 percent in two years, said  Ori Hershkovitz , a partner
at Sphera Funds Management Ltd., a health-care hedge fund in Tel
Aviv. Companies have become more diversified -- in geography and
products -- and have built stronger pipelines of experimental
drugs even as the U.S. Food and Drug Administration approved 39
new drugs last year. That’s the most since 2000, according to
Bloomberg Industries data.  “It’s not a simple comeback,” Hershkovitz, who owns
Pfizer and Sanofi shares, said in a telephone interview. “It’s
of historical magnitude because they’re changing the business
model. It’s not pharmaceuticals as we knew it. It’s new
companies.”  Drugmakers, hard hit for years by a paucity of new drugs
and expiring patents for big money makers, have turned the page.
They have have slashed payrolls, built their presence in new
markets, and moved from a reliance on single mega-blockbusters
to a push for many smaller products.  Eliquis, Afinitor  Research and development have revived too. Among the drugs
approved by the FDA last year are Eliquis, a blood thinner from
Pfizer and Bristol-Myers Squibb Co., and new uses for Novartis’s
cancer drug Afinitor. Several more new drugs, moreover, may
receive FDA approval this year.  Sanofi now gets less than 5 percent of its sales from
chemical compounds with patents that are due to expire in the
U.S. and Europe over the next seven years, according to the
company. Pfizer, which had the world’s top-selling drug in the
cholesterol medicine Lipitor, gets less than a 10th of its  sales 
from its biggest product, data compiled by Bloomberg show. At
Lipitor’s peak sales of $12.9 billion in 2006, it accounted for
26 percent of the New York-based company’s revenue.  Higher Multiples  Stock prices have followed. Pfizer shares surged 27 percent
in the past year, Sanofi gained 29 percent, Novartis rose 22
percent, Eli Lilly & Co. jumped 38 percent and  Roche Holding AG 
rallied 24 percent. The average large-capitalization drug
company sold for about 23 times earnings on a trailing basis as
of yesterday’s close, the highest since 2001, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Excluding Japanese companies from the
global average, U.S. drugmakers are at their highest level since
2007, while their European peers have climbed past 2010 levels.  Investors still underestimate the industry, and will be
willing to pay a higher multiple of earnings for the shares,
Sanofi Chief Executive Officer  Chris Viehbacher  said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television last month in Davos,
Switzerland.  “The whole industry is still poised for a re-rating,” he
said. “People have started to recognize the value of our
diversified model, and I think the future increase is going to
come from the research and development pipeline, which is
underestimated.”  Rising Valuations  Sanofi shares sold for about 8.2 times estimated earnings
at the end of 2009 as Viehbacher finished his first year on the
job. The stock now fetches about 10.9 times estimated 2014
profit, and the company said last week earnings growth should
resume in the second half of this year as patent expirations
recede into the past.  Novartis sells for 12 times estimated 2014 earnings and
 Pfizer  is priced at 11.4 times, compared with a multiple of 12.5
for the S&P 500.  To be sure, price-earnings multiples for pharmaceutical
stocks already rose 23 percent in the past two years, Bloomberg
Industries analyst  Sam Fazeli  wrote in a Feb. 6 report.
Meanwhile, analysts have become less bullish on the stocks since
mid-2011, perhaps in reaction to rising valuations, Fazeli
wrote.  For price-earnings multiples to continue to rise, “the
everyday investor has to have confidence in the sustainability
of earnings growth,” said  Tim Race , a London-based analyst with
Deutsche Bank.  “It’s a slow process,” Race said in a telephone
interview. “I’m not expecting the sector to re-rate massively
overnight. We need to see more evidence of sustainability.”  Race put Bayer, Sanofi and Roche atop his list of
pharmaceutical stock picks for 2013.  Generic Competition  The drug company revaluation has been a long time coming.
Investors had punished drug stocks for a decade as their
pipelines ran dry and blockbuster drugs such as Pfizer’s Lipitor
cholesterol-lowering pill, the asthma treatment Singulair from
 Merck & Co.  and Sanofi’s Plavix blood thinner lost patent
protection and faced generic competition. Companies failed to
get enough promising medicines through clinical trials, or to
win regulatory approval once testing was completed, to replace
the lost revenue.  The average price-earnings multiple for large
pharmaceutical stocks contracted from about 48 in 1998 to about
15 a decade later, according to data compiled by Bloomberg based
on trailing earnings.  Optimists say that last year’s gains may get a renewed push
with another wave of drug approvals. The FDA is expected to rule
this year on Roche’s breast cancer drug T-DM1 and  Biogen Idec ’s
multiple sclerosis treatment BG-12, and  GlaxoSmithKline Plc  is
facing decisions on five products including the lung drug
Relvar.  “The proof of the pudding is in the products,” Race said.
“People need to see pipeline success this year and next to
really believe.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  