-- Pharmacyclics Hits Highest Price in Decade on Drug Status
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2013-02-13T21:06:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/pharmacyclics-at-decade-high-on-drug-status-san-francisco-mover.html
  Pharmacyclics Inc. , a drugmaker
developing an experimental therapy for blood cancers, rose to
its highest level in more than a decade after gaining
“breakthrough” status from U.S. regulators.  Pharmacyclics  rose  9.5 percent to $77.03 at the close in
New York, its biggest single-day increase in a year and the
highest price since March 2000. The Sunnyvale, California-based
company’s share value has tripled in the previous 12 months.  The breakthrough designation by the Food and Drug
Administration may lead to quicker approval. Pharmacyclics and
its partner, New Brunswick, New Jersey-based  Johnson & Johnson ,
will submit the therapy, ibrutinib, to the FDA for marketing
clearance before the end of the year, the companies said
yesterday in separate statements.  “This is a historic moment in oncology,”  Bob Duggan ,
chief executive officer of Pharmacyclics said in the statement.
“We are truly honored to have received this breakthrough
designation and are pleased for patients and clinicians with the
FDA’s decision to expedite the development of ibrutinib.”  The breakthrough status was created in legislation passed
last year reauthorizing the FDA’s user fee programs for drug and
device reviews. Companies that receive the distinction will have
closer communication with top FDA staff to move drugs for
serious diseases to market more quickly,  Janet Woodcock ,
director of the agency’s Center for Drug Evaluation and
Research, said yesterday in an interview.  New drugs generally need three phases of clinical testing
on safety and effectiveness to win FDA approval. Woodcock said
the breakthrough status may lead to approval after just an
expanded early stage clinical trial.  Enzyme Blocker  Ibrutinib blocks an enzyme called Bruton’s tyrosine kinase
that aids certain cancers in spreading. The drug was given
breakthrough status for patients with Waldenstrom’s
macroglobulinemia, and mantle cell lymphoma patients that have
failed other therapies. Pharmacyclics said it’s currently
testing the drug in five late-stage trials.  Mantle cell lymphoma is a type of B-cell non-Hodgkin
lymphoma that typically strikes older adults, with about 5,000
new cases each year, Pharmacyclics said. Waldenstrom’s
macroglobulinemia is a rare type of lymphoma that affects 1,500
people a year and there are no approved treatments.  More than a decade ago, Pharmacyclics had a similar share
rise pushed by a promising drug. In February 2000, the company
peaked at $85 on its experimental brain cancer drug Xcytrin. The
treatment failed in a late-stage trial, plunging the stock 57
percent to $9.39 in December 2001.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  