-- Pharmacyclics Gains ‘Breakthrough’ Status for Cancer Drug
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2013-02-13T01:47:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/pharmacyclics-gains-breakthrough-status-for-cancer-drug.html
Pharmacyclics Inc. , a drugmaker
developing an experimental therapy for blood cancers, won
“breakthrough” status from U.S. regulators for the medicine
that may lead to quicker marketing approval.  Pharmacyclics and its partner, New Brunswick, New Jersey-
based  Johnson & Johnson , will submit the therapy, ibrutinib, to
the Food and Drug Administration for approval before the end of
the year, the companies said today in separate statements.  “This is a historic moment in oncology,”  Bob Duggan ,
chief executive officer of Sunnyvale, California-based
Pharmacyclics said in the statement. “We are truly honored to
have received this breakthrough designation and are pleased for
patients and clinicians with the FDA’s decision to expedite the
development of ibrutinib.”  The breakthrough designation was created in legislation
passed last year reauthorizing the FDA’s user fee programs for
drug and device reviews. Companies that receive the status will
have closer communication with top FDA staff to move drugs for
serious diseases to market more quickly,  Janet Woodcock ,
director of the agency’s Center for Drug Evaluation and
Research, said yesterday in an interview.  New drugs generally need three phases of clinical testing
on safety and effectiveness to win FDA approval. Woodcock said
the breakthrough status may lead to approval after just an
expanded early stage clinical trial.  Ibrutinib blocks an enzyme called Bruton’s tyrosine kinase
that aids certain cancers in spreading. The drug has
breakthrough status for patients with Waldenstrom’s
macroglobulinemia, and mantle cell lymphoma patients that have
failed other therapies. Pharmacyclics said it’s currently
testing the drug in five late-stage trials.  Mantle cell lymphoma is a type of B-cell non-Hodgkin
lymphoma that typically strikes older adults, with about 5,000
new cases each year, Pharmacyclics said. Waldenstrom’s
macroglobulinemia is a rarer type of lymphoma that affects 1,500
people a year and there are no approved treatments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  