-- Philippines Sees Record Investments Boosting Growth Prospects
-- B y   N o r m a n   P .   A q u i n o   a n d   J o e l   G u i n t o
-- 2013-02-13T06:43:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/philippines-sees-record-investments-boosting-growth-prospects.html
Philippine investment pledges
climbed to a record last year as Japanese companies plan
expansions, boosting prospects for the Southeast Asian nation’s
economic growth, Trade Secretary  Gregory Domingo  said.  Government approvals for projects increased 2.3 percent
from a year earlier to $15.9 billion in 2012, according to a
presentation posted on the Investor Relations Office website.
Manufacturing was the “fastest-growing sector in the past two
quarters, surpassing services,” Domingo said at a government
economic forum in Manila today.  President  Benigno Aquino  is increasing spending to a record
this year while seeking more than $17 billion of investments in
roads and airports to spur growth to as much as 7 percent in
2013. China’s rising costs and its territorial dispute with
Japan have prompted Japanese companies to shift more operations
to Southeast Asia, helping the Philippine  economy  expand 6.8
percent last quarter from a year earlier.  Ten foreign companies, including Canon Business Machines
Philippines Inc. and  Murata Manufacturing Co ., have moved some
operations to the Philippines because of its improving cost
competitiveness, according to the IRO presentation. They
accounted for about $400 million in investments last year, with
half coming from Japanese companies, it said.  “Japan is now our largest investment source and trading
partner,” Domingo said. “We’re seeing huge interest from
Japanese companies to set up plants here. We seem to have this
advantage now because of the rising labor cost in China.”  Higher tax revenues will help boost infrastructure spending
to 5 percent of gross domestic product by 2016 from 2 percent
now, Finance Secretary  Cesar Purisima  said in the forum today.
The government increased levies on tobacco products and
alcoholic beverages last month, and expects the move to raise
184.3 billion pesos ($4.5 billion) over four years.  A peace deal signed with Muslim rebels last October is
forecast to bring about $1 billion in investments to Southern
Philippines. The country may win investment-grade status this
year as growth is sustained, central bank Deputy Governor  Diwa Guinigundo  said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norman P. Aquino in Manila at 
 naquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Joel Guinto in Manila at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  