-- Plosser Says Fed Policy Guidance Risks Stoking Inflation
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2013-02-13T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/plosser-says-fed-policy-guidance-risks-stoking-inflation.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia
President  Charles Plosser  said the Fed risks stoking inflation
by providing guidance that only partly describes how the central
bank will alter policy in response shifts in the economy.  “Forward guidance may risk unanchoring longer-term
inflation expectations,” Plosser said today in the text of
remarks prepared for a speech in Stanford, California.  The Fed 
should identify “the key economic variables on which we base
our policy decisions and then frame the rationale for any change
in policy around changes in these key variables.”  The central bank in December linked the benchmark interest
rate to economic indicators for the first time, pledging to hold
 rates  near zero as long as unemployment is above 6.5 percent and
projected inflation doesn’t exceed 2.5 percent. The Fed’s long-
term inflation goal is 2 percent.  “In practice, with imperfect credibility, allowing
inflation to deliberately deviate from the central bank’s
longer-term goal runs the risk that inflation expectations will
become unanchored,” Plosser said at Stanford University.  Since cutting its benchmark policy rate to near-zero in
December 2008, the Fed has experimented with unprecedented tools
to fuel economic growth and spur  job creation.  The Fed has used
new communications to influence investor expectations for the
duration of record accommodation.  Before its December decision, the Federal Open Market
Committee said it expected to keep rates near zero through at
least mid-2015.  The Fed’s current communications policy tied to thresholds
for inflation and unemployment is insufficient because the
central bank hasn’t said what it will do when the two benchmarks
are crossed, Plosser said.  “While our models suggest that forward guidance is a
useful policy tool, we must remain humble about its expected
benefits in the real world of imperfect commitment, imperfect
credibility, and difficult-to-manage expectations,” Plosser
said. “The best course is to be clearer about what our reaction
function will be to changes in key economic variables.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aki Ito  in Stanford at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  