-- Polish Appeals Court to Decide Winiecki Libel Case on Feb. 15
-- B y   K o n r a d   K r a s u s k i   a n d   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2013-02-13T10:46:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/polish-appeals-court-to-decide-winiecki-libel-case-on-feb-15.html
Polish central banker  Jan Winiecki 
may be dismissed from the rate-setting Monetary Policy Council
if an appeals court rules the day after tomorrow that he’s
guilty of libel.  An appeals court in Poznan, western Poland, today closed
its hearing of Winiecki’s case and will announce a verdict on
his lower-court libel conviction at 9:30 a.m. on Feb. 15, Judge
Leszek Matuszewski said.  The charges were brought against Winiecki by former
Governor  Slawomir Skrzypek , who died in a 2010 plane crash
together with then-Polish President  Lech Kaczynski  and 94
others. Under Polish law, libel claims can be brought in
criminal courts. Skrzypek’s widow maintained the allegations
after a lower court ruled in August 2009 that Winiecki had
libeled Skrzypek in a newspaper article saying the governor
wasn’t qualified to run the Warsaw-based Narodowy Bank Polski.  Poland’s central bank law requires MPC members who’ve been
convicted in criminal cases and exhausted all appeals to be
removed from office. Winiecki joined the council in 2010 as one
of three members approved by the Senate, which may dismiss him
from the rate panel as early as its next session on Feb. 20. The
Senate will have as many as three months to vote in a new
candidate.  Rate Cuts  Monetary-policy makers trimmed  borrowing costs  by 1
percentage point since November as economy growth slowed amid
the debt crisis in the euro area, which buys more than half of
Polish exports. After the latest rate cut on Feb. 6, Governor
 Marek Belka  told a news conference that the bank is maintaining
its informal easing bias, meaning another cut or a decision to
keep rates unchanged are “equally probable.”  The central bank’s press office, reached by phone today,
said it couldn’t comment on Winiecki’s case.  Winiecki sided with the majority of policy makers in voting
for quarter-point rate cuts in November and December, while
rejecting motions for 50 basis-point reductions at the same
meetings, according to the central bank’s website. He opposed
monetary easing in October and July and was among eight policy
makers who supported a rate increase in May, the data show.  Voting tallies for the January and February rate meetings
aren’t yet available.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporters on this story:  Dorota Bartyzel  in Warsaw 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   Konrad Krasuski  in Warsaw 
 kkrasuski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  