-- Pope Says ‘Pray for Me’ as Thousands Gather to Bid Farewell
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-02-13T17:10:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/pope-s-audience-draws-thousands-as-faithful-bid-farewell.html
Benedict XVI  asked the faithful to
pray for him today as thousands gathered at his weekly audience
to bid him farewell after he reiterated his intention to become
the first pontiff to resign in almost 600 years.  Benedict repeated that he will resign on Feb. 28, saying he
no longer has the strength to effectively lead the Roman
Catholic Church. He called on the faithful “to continue to pray
for me, for the church and to pray for the new pope.”  Italian television channels carried the ceremony live from
the Sala Nervi, an auditorium inside the Vatican, which was
filled to its capacity of more than 6,000. The audience broke
into applause, with groups of nuns waving yellow and white
Vatican flags when Benedict began to speak. Some held large
banners saying “Thank you your Holiness.”  The weekly audience consists of teachings and readings by
the pope and other church officials, conducted in a range of
languages. Today the pope spoke about Jesus Christ being tempted
by the devil in the desert and about “converting to God”
during the period of Lent which begins today. Benedict repeated
the message in a spate of languages including Italian, German,
French and English.  Message for Clergy  “God is not an instrument to be used for one’s own ends,
for one’s own glory, for one’s own success,” Benedict said
stressing the need to place God before “one’s own interests.”  Some saw a message to his faithful and the clergy couched
within the speech and a possible reference to the in-fighting
that led to last year’s scandal known as Vatileaks. The pope’s
butler was convicted by a Vatican court of leaking papal
documents to a journalist. The texts formed the backbone of a
book that portrayed the Vatican as a hotbed of intrigue and
Benedict as a leader undermined by his powerful second-in-
command, Cardinal  Tarcisio Bertone , once touted as a possible
candidate for the papacy.  “It is a strong message against putting man before God,
power before faith,” Federico Niglia, an International History
professor at Rome’s Luiss University said in an interview.
“He’s both explaining his gesture, and offering a model to his
Church which had left this theme aside for a long time.”  The pope’s Feb. 11 announcement stunned the world and
rocked the faithful, who are accustomed to the pontiff remaining
until his death.  ‘Great Pain’  “For me it was like he had died, it was a great pain as I
have always been fond of him and I have always admired him for
his ability to say clear words and being sweet at same time,
Sister Giovanna Lucchini, an 85-year-old nun, from Como, Italy
said outside St. Peter’s.  While the audience in the hall were enthusiastic in their
support for Benedict’s decision, other Catholics were disturbed
by his choice to resign.  “I am disappointed, because I think that being a pope is
an honor and not something you can renounce,” said Jennie
Guadas, 45, a lawyer from Rio de Janeiro. “I am also concerned
about the future of the church and about my country, which is a
Catholic country.”  Today the pontiff called on the clergy to avoid divisions
and set an example for the faithful and non-believers. “The
face of the church is sometimes disfigured, I think in
particular of the strokes against its unity and of divisions
within the clergy,” he said during a celebration of Ash
Wednesday in St Peter’s Basilica. “Overcoming individualism and
rivalries is a humble and precious signal to those who are far
from the faith.”  Monti, Bank  The pope will continue his public appearances and maintain
his commitments, including a private audience with Prime
Minister  Mario Monti  on Feb. 16, a week before elections in
Italy, Vatican spokesman  Federico Lombardi  said today at a press
conference in Rome.  Lombardi said the meeting has nothing to do with the vote,
and stemmed from a previous commitment with the Italian premier.
The Vatican will also name a new head of Institute for Works of
Religion, known as the Vatican bank, within days and not wait
for the new pope, Lombardi said.  On his final day as pope on Feb. 28, Benedict will hold an
11 a.m. meeting with the church’s Cardinals, many of whom will
be involved in choosing his successor, at a farewell meeting at
the Vatican, Lombardi said. The pope will board a helicopter for
Castel Gandolfo, his summer residence, at 5 p.m., with his
papacy coming to end outside the Vatican.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alessandra Migliaccio  in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net 
 Lorenzo Totaro  in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  