-- Postal Service Debt to Hit $45 Billion Unless Law Changes
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2013-02-13T16:06:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/postal-service-debt-may-hit-45-billion-unless-u-s-changes-law.html
The U.S. Postal Service, which lost
$1.3 billion in its first quarter, said its debt could reach $45
billion by around 2017 if Congress doesn’t pass legislation
allowing it to change its business model.  The post office, at a Senate Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs Committee hearing today, asked for
permission to run its own health plan for employees and
retirees. Postmaster General  Patrick Donahoe  testified the
service could save as much as $7 billion a year through 2016 by
taking its health coverage out of the U.S. government plan.  “Congressional action to allow this fundamental change
would dramatically reduce health care spending, helping the
Postal Service take a significant step toward financial
stability,” he said. “It would also provide savings for
employees and retirees.”  The service has reached the $15 billion limit on what it’s
allowed to borrow from the U.S. Treasury and defaulted last year
on two payments worth more than $11 billion due to the Treasury
for future retiree health benefit costs. Today’s hearing is on
Postal Service finances in this Congress after legislation to
allow changes failed to pass last year.  Saturday Delivery  Representative  Elijah Cummings  of Maryland, the top
Democrat on the House committee with postal overnight, said he
told House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi  today that House postal
legislation is “90 percent” ready and could be passed by the
end of March.  “March may be a little ambitious for both houses to come
out with a bill,” Representative  Darrell Issa , the California
Republican who leads that committee, told reporters after
testifying. “We certainly could have it out of our committee by
the end of March.”  Donahoe last week said the service plans to end Saturday
mail delivery in August even though an appropriations law first
enacted in 1981 requires it to deliver mail six days a week. The
postmaster general said the service could act unilaterally under
a temporary funding resolution that expires March 27.  The service spends $13.1 billion year, or 20 percent of its
revenue, on health-care costs, Donahoe said. That includes $4.8
billion for premiums, $2.7 billion for retiree premiums and $5.6
billion due for future retiree health-care costs.  The Government Accountability Office in a report today said
action to reform the Postal Service is “urgent.” The GAO
called on both Congress and the service to act to cut costs.  Cluster Boxes  Congress should change the future retiree health benefits
funding schedule “in a fiscally responsible manner,” allow the
service to change its business model to cope with declining mail
volume and require binding arbitration processes with unions to
take the service’s financial condition into account, the GAO
said.  In addition to ending Saturday delivery, the service should
end door-to-door delivery by instead putting mail in “cluster
boxes” to save delivery costs, Issa said. He is chairman of the
House Oversight and Government Reform Committee.  Issa and Senator  Tom Coburn , the Oklahoma Republican who is
his party’s top member on the Senate panel overseeing the
service, support the plan to end Saturday mail delivery, which
drew criticism from congressional Democrats. Cummings today
called that announcement “an unfortunate development.”  Art Sackler , coordinator of the Coalition for a 21st
Century Postal Service, whose members include Bank of America
Corp. and EBay Inc., said he hopes congressional dissent over
the Saturday delivery plan “doesn’t become a sideshow” and
prevent passage of more comprehensive postal legislation this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  