-- Pound Tumbles on Bank of England Inflation Report
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-02-13T16:53:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/pound-is-little-changed-before-boe-publishes-inflation-re.html
The pound fell for a third day
against the euro, dropping toward a 15-month low, after Bank of
England Governor  Mervyn King  said U.K. growth is likely to be
weak and the economy faces “big challenges.”  Sterling tumbled at least 0.5 percent versus all of its 16
major counterparts as King said at a press conference in London
that there were “limits” to what policy makers could achieve.
U.K. government bonds fell, with 10-year yields rising by the
most in six weeks, as the central bank said inflation will
remain above its 2 percent target for the next two years even
with weak growth.  “King is saying it’s going to be a rocky road and policy
makers will do more if necessary,” said  Lee McDarby , head of
dealing on the corporate and institutional treasury desk at
Investec Bank Plc in London. “People are looking at the gloomy
side. So far this year the market has taken any opportunity it
can get to sell the pound. There are still a lot of sellers.”  The pound slid 0.7 percent to 86.51 pence per euro as of
4:43 p.m. London time after declining to 87.17 pence on Feb. 1,
the weakest level since Oct. 31, 2011. The U.K. currency fell
0.8 percent to $1.5531 after dropping to $1.5505, the lowest
level since Aug. 3.  Sterling has tumbled 4.7 percent this year, the second-
worst performer after the yen among 10 developed-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. It
strengthened 2 percent in 2012.  Inflation Outlook  The outlook for consumer prices is higher than was forecast
in November because of a weaker pound and increases in energy
bills, the Bank of England said in its quarterly Inflation
Report released today. The Monetary Policy Committee kept its
asset-purchase target at 375 billion pounds and its main
interest rate at 0.5 percent when it met on Feb. 7.  “If necessary, we will do more,” King said. “We must
recognize, however, that there are limits to what can be
achieved via general monetary stimulus -- in any form -- on its
own. Monetary policy works, at least in part, by providing
incentives to households and businesses to bring forward
spending from the future to the present.”  A market gauge of inflation expectations rose toward the
highest in almost two years after his comments. The 10-year
 break-even rate , derived from the difference in yield between
nominal and index-linked bonds, widened five basis points to
3.26 percentage points. It expanded to 3.27 on Feb. 5, the most
since April 2011.  Deteriorating Outlook  “The MPC seems to be in a wait-and-see mode, waiting to
see the effects of the past policy accommodation on the real
economy,”  Annalisa Piazza , a fixed-income analyst at Newedge
Group in London, wrote in a note to clients. “Some more
accommodation might be justified should the economic outlook
deteriorate sharply.”  The yield on the 10-year gilt climbed 10 basis points, or
0.1 percentage point, to 2.21 percent after rising as much as 14
basis points, the biggest increase since Jan. 2. The 1.75
percent bond due in September 2022 fell 0.88, or 8.80 pounds per
1,000-pound face amount, to 96.08.  Investors should avoid 30-year bonds because their returns
aren’t enough to compensate for inflation, according to Pacific
Investment Management Co. Inflation erodes the purchasing power
of the fixed income from bonds.  “The long end is certainly a sell,”  Michael Amey , a money
manager at Pimco in London, said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television with  Francine Lacqua  and  Guy Johnson . “The front-end
is probably OK,” he said, referring to shorter maturities.  The  30-year yield  climbed seven basis points to 3.46
percent after rising to 3.49 percent, the highest level since
March 16.  Lower Forecasts  The Confederation of British Industry, the U.K.’s biggest
business lobby group, today lowered its 2013 growth projection
to 1 percent from 1.4 percent and forecast monetary policy will
be kept unchanged until near the end of 2014.  The Inflation-Report press conference was the second last
for King before he retires at the end of June, when he will be
succeeded by Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney .  U.K. government bonds handed investors a loss of 2.2
percent this year through yesterday, according to indexes
compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies. German bunds dropped 1.5 percent and
Treasuries fell 0.9 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
David Goodman in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  