-- Rackspace Drops 20 Percent as Sales Trail Analyst Estimates
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2013-02-13T22:11:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/rackspace-drops-most-since-2008-as-sales-trail-analyst-estimates.html
Rackspace Hosting Inc. , the provider
of Web-based computing, tumbled the most since its 2008 stock
market debut after reporting revenue that trailed analysts’
estimates, fueling concern that growth may slow.  The stock  plunged  20 percent to $60.30 at the close in New
York. That’s the largest drop since Aug. 8, 2008, the day after
the company’s initial public offering, when the percentage
decline was about the same.  Sales in the fourth quarter rose 25 percent, the slowest
pace in more than two years. The slowdown may continue this
year, according to analysts at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. Before
today’s decline, San Antonio-based Rackspace had been one of the
top-performing U.S. stocks in the past four years, outperforming
every member of the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  “The slower rate of growth is likely a function of the law
of large numbers and some uncertainty with respect to the growth
trajectory of Rackspace’s cloud business,”  Todd Weller , an
analyst at Stifel Nicolaus, wrote in a research note today. He
reduced his rating on Rackspace to hold from buy.  Revenue rose to $352.9 million, compared with the $355.4
million average  analyst estimate , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Net income increased 19 percent to $29.9 million, or
21 cents a share, matching analysts’ predictions.  Investors are accustomed to Rackspace beating predictions,
with the company having  topped  analysts’ sales estimates in each
of the previous 12 quarters.  Capital Spending  Rackspace executives said on a conference call that capital
expenditures will be $375 million to $445 million this year. At
the midpoint, that spending would lead to revenue growth of 21
percent this year, according to Weller.  Rackspace Chief Executive Officer  Lanham Napier  said the
company remains bullish on its prospects as businesses migrate
to cloud data centers from slower, more expensive servers
managed internally. In the cloud-server market, Rackspace
competes with Amazon.com Inc. and is fending off competition
from Microsoft Corp. and Google Inc.  “We’re a company that’s investing in a long-term gain,”
Napier said, in an interview after yesterday’s report. “We’re
going through a transition with respect to growth.”  Sales  in the company’s cloud-computing service rose 49
percent to $87.3 million. The business now accounts for 25
percent of total sales, up from 21 percent a year ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  