-- Rand Gains First Day in Three as Stocks, Metals Prices Advance
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-02-13T14:42:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/rand-gains-first-day-in-three-as-stocks-metals-prices-advance.html
The rand gained for the first time
in three days as stocks and metals prices rose on speculation a
global economic recovery is gathering momentum, boosting the
prospects for South Africa’s exports.  The currency strengthened as much as 0.9 percent to the
strongest level since Feb. 6, and gained 0.6 percent to 8.8614
per dollar as of 4:26 p.m. in Johannesburg. The currency slumped
to the lowest level in more than a week yesterday as North Korea
tested a nuclear weapon, prompting investors to shun riskier
assets. Yields on benchmark 10.5 percent bonds due December 2026
dropped four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 7.29
percent.  Industrial production in the euro area climbed more than
forecast in December, a report showed today. The euro
appreciated for a third day against the dollar and prices of
metals including copper and platinum rose. Commodities accounted
for 53 percent of South Africa’s export earnings in 2012,
according to government data.  “Global equity markets continue to surge,”  John Cairns , a
currency strategist at Rand Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, said
in e-mailed comments. “Risk-off from the North Korea nuclear
tests rapidly faded and attention switched to the hopes for the
global economy.”  The S&P 500 Index climbed to its highest level since 2007
yesterday and the MSCI Emerging-Markets stock gauge gained the
most in two weeks today. South Africa’s benchmark stock  index 
rose for the first time in three days as prices of metals
including platinum advanced. Copper for three-month delivery
added as much as 0.5 percent.  Foreign Purchases  Foreign investors bought a net 2.1 billion rand ($237
million) of South African  stocks  and  bonds  yesterday, bringing
foreign flows into the nation’s equity and debt market this year
to 11.6 billion rand, according to Bloomberg calculations from
JSE Ltd. data.  South Africa’s rand is the “most undervalued” out of 34
currencies based on three measures used to determine a
currency’s “fair value,”  Daragh Maher , a currency strategist
at HSBC Holdings Plc in London, said in a research report today.
The rand, together with the Hungarian forint and the Polish
zloty, were the least likely to be targeted by central banks in
trying to drive currencies weaker, he wrote.  “These are the currencies you would want to buy if you
believed the currency war were to intensify further,” Maher
wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Brand  in Cape Town at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  