-- Ray Chen Has Armani, 1702 Stradivarius for Carnegie Debut
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2013-02-13T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/ray-chen-has-armani-1702-stradivarius-for-carnegie-debut.html
Ray Chen was so keen to learn the
violin that at age four he used a chopstick as a bow on his toy
guitar. His parents soon bought him a proper instrument.  Four years later, Chen performed at the 1998 Winter
Olympics in Nagano, Japan. A decade later, he took top honors at
the  Yehudi Menuhin International Violin Competition  and at the
prestigious Queen Elisabeth International Music Competition in
Belgium in 2009.  For all that, he still got a little nervous playing in
front of a global audience at the Nobel Peace Concert in
December.  “All the Nobel laureates were there. The average I.Q. in
the room was way high,” the Taiwan-born Chen, 23, said in an
interview at Bloomberg’s world headquarters in New York. “I
said: I’d better not screw up.”  Chen will be in the spotlight again Friday night when he
makes his Carnegie Hall debut with the  Royal Stockholm
Philharmonic Orchestra .  The ensemble’s return to the Manhattan venue after an
eight-year absence will include a performance of two works by
Swedish composer Wilhelm Stenhammar; “Open Mind” by
contemporary composer Rolf Martinsson; Max Bruch’s Violin
Concerto No. 1, featuring Chen; and Sibelius’s Symphony No. 2.
Finnish conductor Sakari Oramo will lead the orchestra, and
soprano  Elin Rombo  appears as featured soloist.  “Carnegie Hall is every musician’s dream stage to perform
on,” Chen said.  Stradivarius Loan  Chen will take the stage with a  1702 Lord Newlands
Stradivarius  owned by the  Nippon Music Foundation  in Japan,
which lends rare stringed instruments. Chen said the Japan-based
foundation loaned it to him after he won the Queen Elisabeth
competition. He had been playing a 1721 Macmillan Stradivarius
for three years that was loaned to him by its U.S. owner.  “The Stradivarius is not necessarily easier to play,”
Chen said. “They are usually very temperamental. There is a
specific way you must play them. You can’t bully them. They
teach you, and you learn how to play them.”  Chen, who was raised in Australia, said that for Carnegie
Hall he will wear a custom-made  Giorgio Armani  midnight-blue
tuxedo. He said he struck up a friendship with the designer, and
Chen later gave him a private performance.  “Everything has my name on it so nobody can take it,”
said Chen, wearing a black Armani shirt and a sweater made by
Ermenegildo Zegna, another designer who has befriended him. “I
enjoy fashion because it has a close relationship with music.”  (Chen performs with the Royal Stockholm Philharmonic
Orchestra at Carnegie Hall, 57th Street at 7th Avenue in
Manhattan, on Friday at 7 p.m. Information:
 http://www.carnegiehall.org  or +1-212-247-7800.)  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on dining,  Jeremy
Gerard  on theater.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patrick Cole  in New York at 
 pcole3@Bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 Mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  