-- Real Madrid Draws 1-1 With Manchester United on Ronaldo’s Goal
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-02-14T00:15:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/real-madrid-ties-1-1-with-manchester-united-in-champions-league.html
Cristiano Ronaldo  scored in his
first game against former club Manchester United to give Real
Madrid a 1-1 draw in their Champions League round of 16 opener.  Ronaldo, for whom Real paid a world record 80 million
pounds ($124 million) in 2009, tied last night’s match at
Madrid’s Bernabeu stadium in the 30th minute after  Danny Welbeck 
scored for United, which hosts the return game March 5.  “I played for six years in Manchester. They welcomed me
when I was a child and it’s very special to play against them,”
Ronaldo, who leads the competition with seven goals, said on
UEFA’s website. “We will have chances to score in the second
leg. We always try to take the initiative.”  In last night’s other match,  Mats Hummels  scored in the
87th minute to give Borussia Dortmund a 2-2 draw at Shakhtar
Donetsk, which had won 16 of its previous 17 home games.  “I am quite satisfied because this is a tough stadium to
play in,” Dortmund coach  Juergen Klopp  said on UEFA’s website.  United and Dortmund will host the return matches in the
two-game series, with the winners advancing to the quarterfinals
of European soccer’s elite club competition.  United has progressed in 17 of 19 European Cup knockout
series in which it’s avoided an opening away defeat, while
record nine-time European champion Real has won one of its last
five Champions League games in England.  “At this level, these kinds of teams don’t really care if
they play home or away,” United striker  Robin van Persie  told
Sky Sports. “We don’t really care, they don’t really care. It’s
halftime and we will be ready for the second half.”  Eight Saves  Real had a 28-13 advantage in goal attempts as United
goalkeeper  David De Gea  make eight saves, including an early
fingertip stop to deflect Fabio Coentrao’s shot onto the post.  United took the lead in the 20th minute as Welbeck headed
 Wayne Rooney ’s corner kick past Real goalkeeper Diego Lopez.  De Gea made another diving save to deny  Mesut Ozil  and
Ronaldo put a rebound wide after his free kick hit the wall.
Ronaldo was then on target in the 30th minute as he hung in the
air above  Patrice Evra  and headed in  Angel Di Maria ’s cross.  United’s Phil Jones looped a header over goal in the
opening moments of the second half and De Gea stopped attempts
from Ronaldo and Di Maria, who also shot wide.  De Gea then moved across his line to make a foot save
against Coentrao at the far post. Van Persie hit a post and,
after beating an offside trap, scuffed a shot that was cleared
off the line by  Xabi Alonso  in the 72nd minute.  Ronaldo put a free kick just over the crossbar with five
minutes left and Lopez stopped Van Persie’s goal-bound effort
with the final kick of the match.  Second Leg  “It is very open for the second leg,” Real coach  Jose Mourinho  told Sky Sports. “This will go down to the last minute.
One-all is not a bad result and we can score more than one goal
there.”  Dortmund was on target with 11 of its 17 shots at Donbass
Arena, though needed Hummels’s late goal to go back to Germany
on even terms.  A moment of silence was held prior to the match for victims
of an airline crash at the Donetsk airport yesterday.  Shakhtar President  Rinat Akhmetov  said in a statement on
the club’s website that passengers heading to the game were
among those on the flight from Odessa in south Ukraine. Five
people died and 12 were injured in the crash, Agence France-
Presse reported.  Winter Break  Shakhtar, playing its first competitive game since December
with the Ukrainian league on winter break, opened the scoring in
the 31st minute when  Darijo Srna  scored with a free kick. The
lead lasted 10 minutes as Robert Lewandowski scored his fifth
goal of the competition.  Shakhtar went back in front in the 68th minute as Hummels
failed to control a long ball and Douglas Costa withstood
pressure from  Marcel Schmelzer  to shoot into the bottom corner.  Hummels made up for his mistake when he headed home
Schmelzer’s corner kick with three minutes remaining to extend
Dortmund’s unbeaten away run in all competitions to 14 games.  “We looked a bit foolish ahead of their second goal, but
it is important that we are going into the second leg and a 0-0
would see us through,” Hummels said on UEFA’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 