-- The Real Risk-Takers Are at the Federal Reserve
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2013-02-13T23:30:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/real-risk-takers-are-the-folks-at-federal-reserve.html
Ever since the U.S. Federal Reserve
lowered its benchmark rate almost to zero and embarked on a
series of  large-scale asset purchases , Chairman  Ben Bernanke  has
been using his pulpit to explain how it all is supposed to work.  In a  nutshell : The Fed buys risk-free Treasury securities,
depressing the yields. The public is goaded into buying riskier
assets, such as stocks and corporate bonds, sending those prices
higher. Businesses financing themselves with equity have more
money to invest. Consumers feel wealthier and spend more.  Whenever I hear the bit about risk-taking, I wonder what
the dividing line is between encouraging higher asset prices and
creating froth in asset markets. How does the Fed know when
asset prices have gotten out of whack?  Good question. The Fed can’t control how its money creation
gets allocated. It hopes the money flows from asset prices into
the real economy, but that isn’t always the case. For example,
an individual’s decision of what to buy -- goods and services
versus stocks and bonds -- depends on the expected return, said
 David Beckworth , an assistant professor of economics at Western
Kentucky University in Bowling Green. “I might put off buying a
new car if I could get a great return on buying a new home,” he
said.  That’s exactly what happened in the last decade, when  home
prices  became untethered from their anchors.  “The value of housing went up more than the real value
determined by the flow of services people get from it,” said
 Michael Bordo , a professor of economics at Rutgers University in
New Brunswick, New Jersey.  ’Great Inflation’  What’s more, all that  housing wealth  translated into
unspectacular economic growth. The growth rate of real gross
domestic product from 2001 to 2007 was below the  postwar
average . That was true of all of the individual metrics --
employment, consumer spending, investment, wages and salaries --
with the exception of  corporate profits .  Then there was the experience of the 1970s, where monetary
stimulus went into commodity prices and from there to goods and
services prices, giving us “the great inflation,” Bordo said. Or
it can happen in the stock market, with equity prices rising
faster than can be justified by fundamentals.  In a  speech  last week, Fed Governor  Jeremy Stein  described
what he said was “a fairly significant pattern of reaching-for-
yield behavior” in both the high-yield and syndicated-loan
markets. If that was the goal of Fed policy, then by all rights
it has been successful.  Stein went on to say that even if his assessment were
correct and junk-bond investors ended up taking a hit, “it need
not follow that this risk-taking has ominous systemic
implications.”  Uh-huh. And we all remember just how well the subprime
crisis was contained.  I wouldn’t presume to know whether the  narrow spread 
between junk-bond and Treasury yields or the rise in  U.S.
farmland prices  is suggestive of an asset bubble. Nor am I
passing judgment on the Fed’s monetary accommodation. What I am
saying is that if the stated goal of the central bank is to prod
the public to take risks, and the public complies with the Fed’s
wishes, where does that leave us?  “The Fed has done a poor job of explaining the transmission
of monetary policy” once the funds rate hits zero, said  Marvin Goodfriend , a professor of economics at Carnegie Mellon
University and a former research director at the Federal Reserve
Bank of Richmond. “They haven’t described it as a monetary
phenomenon.”  Simply Put  And no wonder. Monetarists are a dying breed at the Fed,
which is curious since inflation is always and everywhere a
monetary phenomenon (thank you, Milton Friedman).  Goodfriend said the Fed may have decided to avoid talking
about money at a time when the Fed’s  balance sheet  has ballooned
to $3 trillion from a pre-crisis level of about $850 billion.
The public may not understand how the Fed creates  reserves  out
of thin air or what the  money multiplier  is, but the mere
mention of “printing money” seems to capture the imagination.  Back in the old days, the Fed didn’t talk much about
monetary policy: how it worked or what the target interest rate
was. Nowadays Fed officials don’t stop talking. In fact, talk,
or “communication strategy” as it is known, has been elevated to
a policy tool used to guide expectations and explain intended
results.  It might be better if the Fed went back to the old way of
describing how policy works.  “The Fed provides more money than people need, and they try
to spend it away on things,” Goodfriend said.  Nor is it useful to talk about policy in terms of forcing
people to take risks, he said. As a practical matter, who knows
what the right level of risk is?  The Fed continues to usher us down the risk path, with neon
lights to guide the way. Yes, policy makers talk about reducing
 unemployment  -- one of the Fed’s dual mandates -- but the public
must have trouble understanding the linkage between taking risks
(bad, based on recent experience) and creating jobs (good). If
the Fed can’t do a better job of explaining policy, maybe it
should consider talking less.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Baum in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 