-- Treasuries Fall for Third Day Before 10-Year Auction
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-02-13T16:45:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/treasuries-hold-2-day-drop-before-10-year-note-sale.html
Treasuries fell for a third day,
with yields on benchmark 10-year notes rising above 2 percent
for the first time in a week, before the U.S. sells $24 billion
of the securities in the second of three auctions this week.  Pre-auction trading of 10-year notes suggests the debt
would be sold at the highest yield since April 2012. Treasuries
extended losses after a report showed retail sales in the U.S.
rose in January for a third consecutive month. Treasury, which
sold $32 billion of three-year notes yesterday, will auction $16
billion of 30-year bonds tomorrow.  “The retail sales number and import prices were positive
for the economy and weakened the bond market,”  Adrian Miller, 
director of fixed income strategies at GMP Securities LLC in New
York, said in a telephone interview. “The auction is the
primary catalyst on the day, and higher yields will help bring
in demand at the auction, but it’s too early to tell if we are
going to drift much higher in yield.”  The 10-year note yield rose three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 2 percent at 11:40 a.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 1.625 percent
security due in November 2022 fell 7/32, or $2.19 per $1,000
face amount, to 96 21/32. The yield climbed to 2.06 percent on
Feb. 4, the  highest  level since April 12.  The 10-year notes scheduled for sale today yielded 2.04
percent in pre-auction trading, compared with a  nine-month high 
of 1.86 percent at the previous auction of the securities on
Jan. 9. Investors submitted  orders  to buy 2.83 times the amount
of available debt last month.  Term Premium  “We are grinding slightly higher in yields as the 10-year
note auction, and the setup for it, will be the main driver of
the market,”  Guy LeBas,  chief fixed-income strategist at Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia, said in a telephone
interview. “Retail sales were strong, but we will continue to
be stuck around these levels, reflecting low inflation and the
slow economic growth trends that are firmly in place, until
something changes.”  The 10-year term premium, a model that includes
expectations for interest rates, growth and inflation, was at
the cheapest level since April. It touched minus 0.58 percent,
the least expensive level since April 5, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The measure dropped to a record minus
1.02 percent in July.  A negative reading indicates investors are willing to
accept yields below what’s considered fair value.  Bidding History  Indirect bidders, a class of investors that includes
foreign central banks, bought 28.5 percent of the notes at last
month’s offering, compared with an average of 37 percent at the
past 10 auctions.  Direct bidders, non-primary-dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, purchased 14.8 percent of
the offering in January, after buying a record-high 45.4 percent
of the notes at the July sale. The average at the past 10
auctions was 20.4 percent.  Ten-year auctions “have proven to be quite tricky over the
past year,”  Justin Lederer , an interest- rate strategist at
primary dealer Cantor Fitzgerald LP in New York, wrote in a note
to clients. Two-percent yields should bring in demand, but “the
downside risks to the auction are that many will be cautious in
setting shorts here.”  Shorts are bets that a security will decline in price.  Retail Sales  Retail sales increased 0.1 percent in December, Commerce
Department figures showed. The advance matched the median
forecast of 80 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Prices of goods imported into the U.S. rose 0.6 percent in
January, led by more expensive fuel and building materials,
Labor Department figures showed. Economists projected a 0.8
percent advance in January, according to the median forecast in
a Bloomberg survey.  The Group of Seven’s position on currencies could make it
difficult for the Bank of Japan to purchase foreign bonds such
as Treasuries to fight deflation and weaken the yen, an idea the
ruling party has proposed, according to Barclays Plc. The G-7
released a statement yesterday that appeared to signal
acceptance for Japanese policies that lead to a weaker currency,
so long as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s government doesn’t
actively pursue devaluation.  “It is causing a little concern in the marketplace today,
but it’s not a new issue,” said  Larry Milstein , managing
director in New York of government-debt trading R.W. Pressprich
& Co. “It depends how much of a political issue it becomes and
how much saber rattling will happen on both sides.”  Finance Ministers  The yen has fallen about 15 percent against the dollar in
three months as  Abe  presses the central bank for more action to
beat deflation. While the outlook for the nation’s exporters has
improved, trading partners from Germany to South Korea have
voiced their discomfort with Japanese policies.  Finance ministers and central bankers from the G-20, which
includes the G-7 and emerging markets such as Brazil, China and
India, meet in Moscow on Feb. 15-16.  The Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. Treasury Index
showed the notes were little changed this month after handing
investors a 1 percent loss in January, the worst start to a year
since 2009. The bank’s  MOVE Index , which measures price swings
based on options for U.S. debt, dropped to 59.8 basis points
yesterday, the least since Jan. 24.  The Fed bought $1.445 billion of Treasuries due from
February 2036 to November 2042. The central bank is purchasing
$85 billion a month of government and mortgage debt in the third
round of so-called quantitative easing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  