-- Reckitt Benckiser Forecasts Sales Will Advance as Much as 6%
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2013-02-13T09:48:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/reckitt-benckiser-forecasts-2013-sales-growth-of-as-much-as-6-.html
Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc , the
maker of Nurofen painkillers and Dettol handwash, reported the
strongest quarterly sales increase since 2009 and forecast
growth this year, helped in part by acquisitions.  Revenue will increase 5 percent to 6 percent at constant
rates of exchange, excluding the pharmaceuticals unit and
withdrawal from private-label products, the Slough, England-
based company said today in a statement. Fourth-quarter sales
gained 6 percent on a like-for-like basis, also excluding
pharmaceutical revenue, topping the 4.7 percent average estimate
of nine analysts polled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Rakesh Kapoor  has put acquisitions
at the forefront of a push into health care, while seeking to
boost emerging-market revenue to combat weakening economies in
Europe. The company yesterday inked a $482 million licensing
pact with Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. for Latin American over-the-
counter remedies, and today said it has paid an undisclosed sum
for China’s Golong Medicine, which makes a sore-throat remedy.  The sales beat “represents the strongest quarterly
performance through 2012 and compares well against the 5 percent
reported for the year,”  Darren Shirley , an analyst at Shore
Capital, said in a note. The 2013 forecast “may prove a little
underwhelming to some in the market given the strength of the
fourth-quarter performance, which suggests to us the quarter was
exceptional in nature.”  Reckitt Benckiser rose 0.9 percent to 4,400 pence at 9:44
a.m. in London. The  stock  has gained 13 percent in 2013,
extending last year’s 22 percent advance.  Flu Season  Fourth-quarter sales were helped by a 3 percent increase in
like-for-like revenue for Europe and North America -- which are
reported as one region and account for 56 percent of non-
pharmaceutical revenue -- thanks to higher sales of cough-and-
cold remedies such as Mucinex and Strepsils. According to the
U.S. Centers for Disease Control, widespread influenza activity
was reported in 38 U.S. states in the week ended Feb. 2,
compared with only one state in the comparable week in 2012.  Kapoor said in an interview today that the flu season has
been a “good one,” and provided a “tailwind” for the
quarter. Economic conditions in Europe remain “difficult,” the
company said in the statement.  Wider Margins  Eamonn Ferry , an analyst at Exane BNP Paribas, said sales
of more profitable flu-fighting products also helped widen
margins. In 2012, the adjusted operating margin expanded by 0.7
percentage point to 26.9 percent, exceeding the company’s
earlier forecast for an unchanged margin. Reckitt Benckiser
expects to maintain operating profit as a percentage of sales
this year, excluding the pharmaceutical business, it said today.  Revenue  increased 11 percent in Latin America and Asia in
the quarter, fueled by brands such as Durex condoms in China and
Paras brands in India. Sales rose 7 percent in Russia, the
Middle East and Africa, helped by consumers buying more Durex
and Dettol. The company also said it expects to achieve its
target of 50 percent of non-pharmaceutical sales from emerging
markets by the end of 2015, one year earlier than the forecast
it gave last year.  Net revenue at the pharmaceuticals division, which Reckitt
Benckiser considers a “non-core” activity, rose 22 percent.
The company said in September it will cease production of the
Suboxone opioid-dependency drug in tablet form as it weans
patients onto a film-strip version that’s less likely to be
taken accidentally by children.  Emerging Markets  Reckitt Benckiser said the film version of Suboxone that
dissolves under the tongue has now captured a 64 percent volume
share in the U.S., up from 48 percent at the end of 2011.  “We are laying the foundations for RB to succeed in a
world where health and hygiene play an increasingly important
role,” Kapoor said in the statement. “We enhanced our focus on
our 16 Powermarkets, many of which are in the emerging-market
areas that now represent 44 percent of our core net revenue.”  Adjusted net income for 2012 climbed 7 percent to 1.94
billion pounds ($3.04 billion), the company said. The average
estimate of 20 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for profit on
that basis of 1.83 billion pounds.  Shareholders will receive a final  dividend  of 78 pence a
share, up 11 percent on the previous year.  “It’s a strong set of results for the fourth quarter and
the full year,” Investec analyst  Martin Deboo  said in an
interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in London at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  