-- Rehn Says Austerity Policy Not to Blame on Slow EU Growth
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2013-02-13T17:51:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/rehn-says-austerity-policy-not-to-blame-on-slow-eu-growth.html
European Union Economic and Monetary
Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said austerity policies shouldn’t
be blamed for slow growth in the euro area and the long wait for
economic recovery to turn into jobs.  The EU’s budget rules and “stability culture” are not
standing in the way of long-term growth, Rehn said in a  letter 
today to EU finance ministers, the European Central Bank and the
International Monetary Fund. Studies on the harmful effects of
budget cuts on the economy, through so-called fiscal
multipliers, don’t always link to what’s happening in Greece and
other crisis-stricken nations, he said.  “Growth in the euro area is likely to turn positive only
gradually in the second half of 2013, and there will inevitably
be a lag before a strengthening of economic activity has an
impact on job creation,” Rehn said in the letter published in
Brussels.  Rehn’s letter responded to findings by IMF Chief Economist
 Olivier Blanchard  that budget cuts caused a deeper-than-expected
reduction in European growth, reflecting the fund’s milder
fiscal policy prescription in recent months for countries such
as Greece and Portugal. The IMF is part of the so-called troika
of euro-area creditors, along with the commission and the ECB.  In his letter, Rehn said that confidence effects in
financial markets “are becoming clearly visible.” The program
in Greece, the nation that sparked the debt crisis in late 2009,
is now “decisively back on track” and Greek authorities have
accomplished “a great amount” in terms of reforms that could
boost growth and encourage investor fears to lift, he said.
Greece now must follow through on its promises to reap the
benefits of this improved sentiment, he said.  IMF Papers  In working papers published last month and in October,
Blanchard and colleague  Daniel Leigh  said that fiscal
multipliers, which gauge the impact of budget consolidation on
growth, were “substantially higher” than anticipated by
analysts during the debt crisis.  While the authors said their findings should not be seen as
arguing for specific country policies, recent IMF advice in
Europe suggests they have been influential.  Greece  and Portugal
received more time to meet fiscal targets under international
bailout packages and the fund says Latvia’s spending cuts have
gone too far.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  