-- RenCap Says Add Nigerian Equities as Economic Growth Booms
-- B y   D u l u e   M b a c h u
-- 2013-02-13T11:16:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/rencap-says-add-nigerian-equities-as-economic-growth-booms-1-.html
Renaissance Capital, a unit of the
Russian investment bank controlled by billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov , recommends investors are overweight in Nigerian
stocks as growth in the West African nation surges.  In Africa, “it’s the largest and most attractive market to
us,” RenCap Chief Executive Officer  John Hyman  said in an
interview in Lagos, Nigeria’s commercial capital, on Feb. 11.
“We would say to any long-term investors: you should have some
Nigeria in your portfolio, you overweight Nigeria.”  The Nigerian Stock Exchange All-Share Index has gained 19
percent this year, the third-best performer behind benchmark
indexes in Bulgaria and Venezuela, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. While Nigerian stocks gained 35 percent last year,
the index has only rebounded to half the March 2008 peak it
reached before the global financial crisis and a government
bailout of the banking industry triggered a market slide.  Sub-Saharan Africa’s second-largest bourse is targeting a
market value of $1 trillion by 2016 as state power companies
being sold to bidders, including  Siemens AG ,  Korea Electric
Power Corp. , may be required to list on the exchange. Power
industry reform will add to economic growth, while the Islamist
insurgency in Nigeria is a “manageable” risk, said Hyman.  “We think the growth rate continues to be attractive”
valuations continue to be relatively attractive,” he said.
“And the pace of reform is good.”  Economic Growth  Nigeria’s economy, estimated at $272.6 billion by the
International Monetary Fund, is forecast to grow 6.5 percent
this year, the same pace as last year, according to the national
budget presented by President  Goodluck Jonathan  to lawmakers in
October. The Nigerian Stock Exchange’s market capitalization is
currently 50.1 trillion naira ($67.5 billion), according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The outlook for the rest of sub-Saharan Africa also looks
promising for investors, with key indicators on reform,
governance and literacy showing improvement and violence
declining, Hyman said.  The  Bloomberg NSE Banking Index , which tracks the
performance of Nigeria’s 10 largest lenders, has advanced 24
percent this year, while an index following the West African
nation’s  10 biggest consumer good companies  has climbed 17
percent.  RenCap, which doesn’t disclose detailed financial results,
began operations in sub-Saharan Africa in 2006.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dulue Mbachu in Abuja at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  