-- Republican Appropriator Seeks Budget With More Defense
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2013-02-13T21:18:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/republican-appropriator-seeks-budget-with-more-defense.html
The chairman of the House
Appropriations Committee proposed a measure to finance the
federal government through September that would include new
money for the departments of Defense and Veterans Affairs.  Representative  Hal Rogers , a Kentucky Republican, said
today that while a stopgap measure would extend current funding
levels for most government agencies, his plan would give the
Pentagon and Veterans Affairs more leeway to decide how to spend
their money.  The Pentagon currently is prohibited from moving money
between accounts under the measure funding government
operations, known as a continuing resolution, and can’t start
new programs or enter into multiyear contracts. As a result, the
Pentagon has reported funding shortfalls for its operations,
Rogers said. The new measure would alleviate that, he said.  “It’s to take off that straitjacket, to give them
flexibility,” the congressman told reporters in Washington.  Congress passed a stopgap spending measure for the first
six months of the 2013 fiscal year, which began Oct. 1, because
none of the annual appropriations bills that fund federal
agencies was adopted. That measure expires March 27.  Legislation to fund the government until Sept. 30 will
include a defense appropriations bill negotiated by the House
and Senate, which will set the Pentagon’s base budget at $518
billion, Rogers said.  Deeper Cut  Under his proposal the funding measure, including the
defense bill, would set the spending cap at $1.043 trillion.  House leaders have been considering a stopgap funding
measure for the rest of the fiscal year that could reduce
spending levels below $1 trillion.  That measure would fund the government at about $974
billion, Representative  James Lankford , an Oklahoma Republican,
said in an interview Feb. 4. The spending levels would be lower
because House Republicans are working under the expectation that
automatic spending cuts, known as sequestration, will take
effect on March 1.  Whether Rogers’s proposal will come to a vote has yet to be
determined as many House Republicans, including Tea Party-backed
members, want to see the full spending cuts kick in.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  