-- Sweden Ignores Currency Wars as Krona Surge Welcomed by Riksbank
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2013-02-13T12:26:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/riksbank-s-ingves-says-krona-strength-appropriate-gains-to-last.html
Sweden is ignoring talk of a new
round of currency wars that threatens to dominate Group of 20
talks this weekend.  Central bank Governor  Stefan Ingves  said the krona’s
appreciation has brought it to an appropriate level and
predicted the currency’s exchange rate will probably remain
where it is.  The krona was today’s best-performing major currency
against the euro, the dollar and the yen after the Stockholm-
based Riksbank agreed to leave its  main interest rate  at 1
percent. Nine of the 22 economists surveyed by Bloomberg had
estimated policy makers would deliver a quarter-point cut as
Swedish exporters struggle to stay competitive.  The krona gained as much as 1.2 percent against the euro
and traded 1 percent higher at 8.4754 as of 1:15 p.m. local
time. Versus the dollar, the krona soared as much as 1.4
percent. Today’s gains brought the Swedish currency to its
highest against the euro since Oct. 1.  “This is an appropriate level of the krona exchange
rate,” Ingves said in an interview today, after presenting his
bank’s decision to reporters in Stockholm. “We’re happy with
the level we’re seeing now. It’s a level that I think will
last.”  G20 Talks  As finance ministers from the Group of 20 gather this
weekend in Moscow, focus will be on the threat of international
currency wars in a battle to boost trade competitiveness through
weaker exchange rates. Swedish Finance Minister  Anders Borg  said
last month that the Riksbank’s policy of not cutting rates
further is propping up the krona and preventing the exchange
rate from helping sustain a recovery.  “There’s a difference between the discussions that are
conducted at for example the context of Group of Seven and what
finally ends up happening,” Ingves said.  The Riksbank is committed to its inflation target and will
accept the shifts in the krona exchange rate that the market
delivers, he said. The bank’s decision today leaves its main
rate a quarter point higher than the European Central Bank’s
benchmark. Main rates in the U.S. and Japan are close to zero.  “We have to expect that the krona moves sometimes in one
direction and sometimes in the other,” Ingves said. “We have
for a long time, when the krona was significantly weaker than it
is today, said that the krona ought to strengthen, considering
the economic development in Sweden. It’s now done that and we
now think the krona is where it ought to be.”  Economy Recovering  Most forecasters estimate Sweden’s economy will recover
this year as jobs growth boosts confidence that Europe has
surfaced from the worst of its fiscal turmoil.  The Riksbank kept its growth forecasts unchanged today,
predicting that the Swedish economy will expand 1.2 percent this
year, after a gain of 0.9 percent last year. Growth will pick up
to 2.7 percent next year. Consumer prices, excluding mortgage
costs, will remain below the 2 percent target until 2015, the
bank said. Unemployment will be 8.1 percent this year and ease
to 7.8 percent next year, higher than the 7.6 percent prediction
in December.  Two of the bank’s six board members voted to lower rates.
Deputy Governor  Karolina Ekholm  wanted a cut to 0.75 percent
while Deputy Governor Lars E.O. Svensson argued in favor of a
repo rate of 0.5 percent through the first quarter of 2014.  ‘We’ve Adapted’  Sweden has steered clear of the recession that’s descended
on the euro area, helping the AAA rated Nordic nation to emerge
as a haven from the debt woes plaguing southern Europe. Demand
for Swedish assets sent the krona to a 12-year high versus the
common currency in August.  “The krona is of course important” because half of
Sweden’s economy is based on exports, Ingves said. “We know
from experience all the way from the 1990s that the krona can
move quite a lot in both one or the other direction without
being particularly difficult to deal with by the Swedish
economy, so in that sense we have adapted to these
fluctuations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Johan Carlstrom  in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  