-- Romania Plans to Raise as Much as $1.5 Billion in Bond Sale
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2013-02-13T16:00:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/romania-plans-to-raise-as-much-as-1-5-billion-in-bond-sale-1-.html
Romania plans to raise as much as
$1.5 billion in its first sale of dollar bonds in a year to
finance maturing debt and its budget deficit.  The Finance Ministry is looking to sell between $500
million and $1.5 billion of the securities with a maturity of at
least 10 years, according to a document published on the
government’s  Official Journal  website today.  Romania last sold dollar bonds in February 2012, raising
$750 million in bonds maturing in 2022 at a yield of 6.45
percent. The rate was 4.11 percent today, after climbing seven
basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Romania’s borrowing costs have tumbled in
the past year as tension eased between President Traian Basescu
and Prime Minister  Victor Ponta .  “The bond yields will fall below 6 percent, definitely
much lower than the last dollar bond issue, as Romania is stable
from a budgetary point of view,” Ponta told reporters in
Bucharest today. “We have a stable political environment and
we’re now borrowing money at the cheapest possible price” on
the local market, he said.  The eastern European country aims to tap markets through a
7 billion-euro ($9.4 billion) medium-term note program that’s
designed to help the administration sell debt quickly. It plans
to raise 2.5 billion euros through bond sales abroad this year.  The finance ministry mandated Barclays Plc,  BNP Paribas SA ,
 Citigroup Inc . and HSBC Holdings Plc to hold investor meetings
in Europe and the U.S. this week. It didn’t specify the timing
for the sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Irina Savu  at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  