-- Romanian Leu Gains to One-Week High on Central Bank Help Bets
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2013-02-13T13:10:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/romanian-leu-gains-to-one-week-high-on-central-bank-help-bets.html
Romania’s leu strengthened to the
highest level in a week on bets the central bank may step in to
curb a currency decline.  The leu had weakened 0.4 percent this month as the central
bank lifted a limit on the size of its weekly repurchase
agreement auctions. The bank, which has a managed floating
policy for the currency, has been capping the repo amount in the
past four months to help shore up the currency. Inflation
quickened to 6 percent in January, beating the 5.4 percent
median estimate of 15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “We are not anticipating that the central bank will
tolerate continued weakness, particularly because they are
serious about inflation targeting,”  Roderick Ngotho , a London-
based strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, wrote in a
note. “A weakening currency is counterproductive in an
environment where the central bank would like to cut the policy
rate further. We favor leu upside this week.”  The leu appreciated 0.4 percent to 4.3832 per euro by 1:40
p.m. in Bucharest, the highest on a closing basis since Feb. 5,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg and erasing this month’s
loss.  The Banca Nationala a Romaniei increased the limit to 11
billion lei ($3.3 billion) on Feb. 11, from 10 billion lei a
week earlier, as commercial banks’ demand for the leu reached 33
billion lei. The bank started capping the repo amount on Oct. 8
and cut supply to as low as 4 billion lei.  “The central bank “appears to be waiting for inflation
to dip into the top-end of the 1.5-3.5 percent inflation channel
so that they can ease the monetary policy rate further,” Ngotho
said in the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
 Irina Savu  in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  