-- Rubber Advances for Second Day as Higher Oil Increases Appeal
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 2013-02-13T07:17:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/rubber-advances-for-second-day-as-higher-oil-increases-appeal.html
Rubber futures climbed for a second
day as a rally in oil raised the appeal of the commodity as an
alternative to synthetic products used to make tires.  The contract for delivery in July gained as much as 0.6
percent to 333.6 yen a kilogram ($3,585 a metric ton) and
settled at 332.1 yen on the Tokyo Commodity Exchange. Futures
have increased 9.8 percent this year.  Oil in New York traded near the highest level in more than
a week after data from the American Petroleum Institute showed
crude inventories fell last week, the first drop in six. Higher
oil adds to the cost of producing synthetic rubber.  “Rubber chased a rally in oil amid speculation the global
economic recovery will boost demand for industrial
commodities,”  Kazuhiko Saito , an analyst at broker Fujitomi Co.
in Tokyo, said by phone today.  Gains in futures were limited as Japan’s currency rose from
an almost three-year low against the dollar, making yen-
denominated contracts less attractive to investors, he said.  The yen climbed to 92.83 per dollar after an unidentified
Group of Seven official said Japan will be discussed at the G-20
meeting amid concern the currency’s moves have been excessive.
Japan is likely to face criticism from its trading partners for
weakening the yen to the detriment of economies in developing
Asia, Eisuke Sakakibara, a former Ministry of Finance official,
said in an interview today.  The Shanghai Futures Exchange is closed this week for
holidays. Natural-rubber inventories rose 1,201 tons to 100,015
tons, based on a survey of nine warehouses in Shanghai,
Shandong, Yunnan, Hainan and Tianjin, the bourse said Feb. 8.  Thai rubber free-on-board added 0.5 percent to 98.3 baht
($3.30) a kilogram today, according to the country’s Rubber
Research Institute.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  