-- Donald Trump Vows to Fight Scottish Wind Farm Plan in Courts
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-02-13T20:42:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/trump-executive-vows-to-fight-scottish-wind-farm-plan-in-courts.html
Donald Trump  will fight any approval
of an offshore wind farm overlooking his  Scottish golf resort  in
the courts for years, according to  George Sorial , the executive
in charge of the New York billionaire’s project.  Trump is deferring plans to build a five-star hotel, 500
homes and 950 rental apartments at the 750 million-pound ($1.17
billion) resort until a decision on the proposal to build 11
offshore wind turbines in Aberdeen Bay, Sorial said yesterday in
an interview.  “It will be many years before we have exhausted the
appeals process, which we will certainly do,” Sorial said. “We
are confident they will never be built.”  Trump has been at loggerheads for more than a year with
 Alex Salmond  over the Scottish First Minister’s flagship policy
of making the nation the hub of European wind power by
generating all of its electricity from renewable sources by
2020. Trump, who two days ago submitted plans to build a second
golf course on his 1,400 acre (567 hectare) Menie estate, says
the policy will hurt Scottish tourism.  The  European Offshore Wind Deployment Centre , a venture
between  Vattenfall AB , Technip SA and Aberdeen Renewable Energy
Group, applied in 2011 to install wind turbines 2.4 kilometers
(1.5 miles) out to sea. They would be 651-feet (198-meters) high
to the tip of the blades.  Marine Scotland  hasn’t decided whether
to give the go-ahead for the 230 million-pound development.  “We will be able to prevent construction,” Sorial said.
Trump is willing to appeal the wind farm to courts in London
should he fail to block it in Scotland, he said. “We are very
optimistic we can defeat them.”  Democratically Elected  Salmond, whose electoral district includes Trump’s estate,
has said he and Trump are destined to disagree on the matter and
energy policy should be set by democratically-elected officials.  Trump told Scottish lawmakers last year he had had
assurances from Salmond, and his predecessor  Jack McConnell ,
that the wind-farm plan wouldn’t proceed because of objections
from the U.K. Ministry of Defence.  Trump has outlined his opposition in letters to Salmond and
news organizations over the past year. In one, he described
Salmond as “Mad Alex” who would turn Scotland into a third-
world economy by building “monstrous” turbines and ruining
tourism.  Energy Policy  The government won’t be making any further comment on the
application until after Marine Scotland has considered the views
of everyone who was consulted and ministers have made a
decision, the government said in a statement.  “The First Minister has said previously that it is for the
Scottish Parliament and Ministers to determine Scotland’s energy
policy,” according to the statement.  Trump identified his site at Balmedie, north of Aberdeen,
as a potential 750 million-pound golf resort in 2005 and battled
for almost three years to gain consent to build the two courses
as well as the 450-bed hotel, homes and apartments.  Trump bought the 1,400-acre Menie estate in 2006. His
planning application was rejected by Aberdeenshire Council in
November 2007, six months after Salmond’s Scottish National
Party won elections and its first term in power. Finance
Secretary  John Swinney  overturned the planning decision in 2008,
citing the economic and social benefits.  Sand Dunes  Opponents faulted Trump’s plans to build part of the course
on a stretch of sand dunes that government environmental
advisers said should be protected. Trump planted marram grass in
a stretch of the dunes, a site designated of special scientific
interest, to stop them moving northward a few yards each year
and encroaching on the golf course.  “The decision to go forward with the second course was
driven by demand,” Sorial said. “We are on track to sell out
22,000 rounds this year plus corporate outings. We are selling
as many rounds as we can.”  The first course, which opened for the season in July and
closed in October, sold more than 10,000 rounds in its first
year, Sorial said. It will reopen in April and may stay open
into November, he said.  Trump is looking to start building the second course this
year, assuming it will take four to six months to gain planning
consent. The first course took 18 months to build and the latest
should take less time, Sorial said.  Trump has spent 100 million pounds on the estate, putting
in infrastructure and building the first course. The Mary
MacLeod course, named for Trump’s Scottish-born mother, should
be less costly, Sorial said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Woodifield  in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net  