-- Rupiah Forwards Advance on Stock Inflows; Bonds Little Changed
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2013-02-13T08:49:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/rupiah-forwards-advance-on-stock-inflows-bonds-unchanged.html
Indonesia’s three-month rupiah
forwards rose to within 0.3 percent of a two-month high after
international investors increased their holdings of the nation’s
equities. Government bonds were little changed.  Funds based overseas bought $70 million more of local
stocks than they sold in the first two days of this week,
boosting net purchases in 2013 to $1 billion, exchange data
show. Bank of Japan is expected to keep policy unchanged at a
two-day meeting which starts today, according to a survey of
economists by Bloomberg News. European Central Bank President
Mario Draghi said yesterday “enormous progress” has been made
in Spain, easing concern over the European debt crisis.  “Global central banks are taking ultra-loose monetary
policies,” said Mika Martumpal, a currency analyst at PT Bank
CIMB Niaga in Jakarta. That “means inflows into the Indonesian
capital market and is good for the rupiah,” he said.  Three-month non-deliverable forwards advanced 0.1 percent
to 9,691 per dollar as of 3:23 p.m. in Jakarta, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. They reached 9,661 on Feb. 11, the strongest
level since Dec. 4. The contracts traded at a 0.5 percent
discount to the spot rate, which was little changed at 9,641,
according to prices from local banks compiled by Bloomberg.  A daily  fixing  used to settle the derivative contracts was
set at 9,643 per dollar today by the Association of Banks in
Singapore. That’s 0.4 percent stronger than 9,685 on Feb. 8.
Markets in the city-state were closed Feb. 11 and yesterday for
the Chinese New Year holidays.  The rupiah’s one-month implied volatility, which measures
expected exchange-rate swings used to price options, was little
changed at 6.5 percent for an eighth day.  Asset Purchases  Bank of Japan Governor Masaaki Shirakawa and six of his
nine fellow board members voted last month for a 2 percent
inflation target, to be achieved “at the earliest possible
time,” and pledged to begin open-ended asset purchases from
January 2014.  Indonesia’s  current-account deficit  widened to $7.8 billion
in the quarter ended December, compared with the $7.4 billion
median estimate in a Bloomberg news survey and $5.3 billion in
the prior period, the central bank reported today.  The yield on Indonesia’s 5.625 percent bonds due May 2023
was little changed at 5.26 percent, prices from the Inter Dealer
Market Association show.  Bank Indonesia maintained its benchmark rate at a record-
low 5.75 percent yesterday, as forecast by all 17 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  