-- Russia Backs G-7 Stance on Currency Manipulation, Ulyukayev Says
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2013-02-13T11:25:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/russia-backs-g-7-stance-on-currency-manipulation-ulyukayev-says.html
Russia backs a Group of Seven pledge
to refrain from weakening currencies or targeting exchange rates
through economic or fiscal policy, central bank First Deputy
Chairman  Alexey Ulyukayev  said.  “Measures to revive domestic demand and to boost domestic
competitiveness through weakening currencies can have a short-
term effect,” he said. “In the medium and long term, it’s not
productive and it also provokes retaliation.”  Russia, which joined the G-7 to form the Group of Eight in
1998, is hosting meetings of finance ministers and central bank
chiefs from the Group of 20 in Moscow this week. Questions about
how to avert competitive currency devaluations will be
discussed, said Ulyukayev, who warned last month that the world
was nearing the brink of a fresh “currency war.”  The G-7 raised confusion yesterday after its members issued
statements offering contradictory interpretations of the group’s
stance on the Japanese currency’s recent drop. The yen was
overvalued and its recent depreciation shouldn’t be seen as
distorting trade, Russian Deputy Finance Minister  Sergei Storchak  said today.  The G-7 is considering releasing a statement before the
meeting in Moscow, which includes the G-7 and emerging markets
such as Brazil, China and India, three officials from G-7
countries said Feb. 11. Any pledge not to target currencies when
setting policy would mark a strengthening in stance from when
the G-7’s finance chiefs last commented on currencies as a group
in September 2011.  Russia will use the G-20 platform to reiterate its stance
that only collective actions are effective for promoting
international financial stability, according to Ulyukayev.
Policy makers this week are facing the “massive, historic
challenge” of accelerating global economic growth, he said.  Limited Opportunities  “This is the growth needed by the billions of people
inhabiting the Earth who aren’t getting enough, whose
opportunities are limited,” Ulyukayev said.  Russia, the world’s largest energy exporter, is battling
its own economic slowdown after growth slowed to 3.4 percent
last year, the weakest pace since a 2009 contraction. The
central bank has come under pressure from the government to
offer monetary stimulus, a push resisted by policy makers
including Ulyukayev.  “The temptation emerges to solve the problem of restoring
growth through localized, individual actions,” Ulyukayev said
today. “The temptation of trade protectionism, the temptation
of currency wars and artificially weakening national
currencies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  