-- Russia Stocks Climb 1st Day in Six as Rosneft Rises on Gas Bets
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2013-02-13T16:36:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/russia-stocks-climb-first-time-in-six-days-as-novatek-advances.html
Russian  equities climbed for the
first time in six days as crude rose and  OAO Rosneft , the
nation’s biggest oil producer, gained on bets gas export
restrictions may be loosened.  The  Micex Index  added 1.7 percent to 1,537.93 by the close
in Moscow, the most since Jan. 8. Of 50 stocks, 4 declined and
46 rose. Consumer goods shares led the increase, rising 2.5
percent on average. The dollar-denominated  RTS Index  rallied 1.9
percent to 1,612.65.  Oil, Russia’s main export, increased 0.3 percent to $97.77
in New York. President  Vladimir Putin  called for a gradual
liberalization of liquefied natural-gas exports during an energy
commission meeting today.  OAO Gazprom  holds a monopoly on gas
shipments outside Russia.  OAO Novatek , the largest independent
natural gas producer, closed up 2.2 percent, while Rosneft added
3.8 percent, the most since Nov. 1.  “Investors are welcoming the prospect of boosting
competition in the natural-gas export market,”  Ivan Manaenko ,
the head of research at Veles Capital LLC in Moscow, said by
phone. “This would be a positive development both for Novatek
and Rosneft.”  The president is balancing calls from Rosneft and Novatek
to liberalize gas exports and encourage investment in new
fields, while protecting state interests represented by Gazprom,
which is the world’s biggest producer of the fuel and owns and
maintains the country’s pipelines.  Gazprom increased 2.9 percent to 137.06 rubles, the most
since Sept. 14 after sinking to the lowest level since April
2009 yesterday. Gazprom has the  second-highest weighting  on the
Micex at 13.6 percent, while Rosneft has the fourth-largest
weighting at 5.7 percent. Novatek has a 3.7 percent weight.  Alrosa Sale  OAO Alrosa  jumped 4.1 percent to 31.84 rubles, the highest
since March 23. The amount of shares traded was 1.3 million,
equivalent to about 1.1 times the three-month average.  Russia is seeking companies to organize the sale of the 7
percent state-owned stake in Alrosa, according to a statement on
the Federal Property Management Agency’s website Feb. 5.  “Investors are trying to get into Alrosa on the news that
the government is actively preparing for the sale of its
stake,”  Dinnur Galikhanov , an analyst at Aton Capital LLC in
Moscow, said by phone. “Privatization would boost the company’s
free float and widen the investor base.”  Ten-day price swings  on the Micex advanced to 11.885, the
highest since Jan. 30. The number of shares traded on the Micex
was 1.3 times above the gauge’s 10-day average, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  MSCI Rebalancing  MSCI Inc.  is scheduled to announce its quarterly index
rebalancing after the market closes today. The changes come into
effect on Feb. 28.  EON Russia  and OAO Pharmstandard, Russia’s
largest drugmaker, may be added to the  MSCI Russia Index ,
stimulating inflows of up to $477 million into each, according
to an e-mailed note from Sberbank CIB’s on Feb. 8.  EON Russia rose 0.5 percent to 2.9418 rubles, while
Pharmstandard increased 0.2 percent to 1,975 rubles.  Russian equities have the lowest valuations based on
estimated earnings among 21 emerging markets tracked by
Bloomberg. The Micex trades at about 5.7 times  estimated
earnings  and has added 4.3 percent this year. That compares with
a multiple of 8.7 times for the MSCI Emerging Markets Index,
which has gained 1 percent over the same period.  The  Moscow Exchange , which was created out of a merger
between competing bourses in 2011 and operates the Micex and
RTS, is seeking to raise at least 15 billion rubles ($499
million) in an initial public offering. Its shares are due to
debut in the capital on Feb. 15, according to a Feb. 4
statement.  China Fund  The Kremlin-backed Russian Direct Investment Fund is
seeking to bring China’s $480 billion counterpart into the
Moscow Exchange’s initial public offering as an anchor investor,
three people with knowledge of the matter said. Chengdong
Investment Corp., a unit of CIC International Co., may get as
much as 25 percent of the shares being offered in the IPO, said
the people, who asked not to be identified because the
information isn’t public.  Foreign investors may be deterred from buying the stock
because the process of its modernization makes forecasting
revenue harder, Prosperity Capital Management said yesterday.  VTB, BofA  VTB Group , Russia’s second-biggest lender, surged 5.3
percent to 5.56 kopeks, the most since Sept. 14. Bank of America
Merrill Lynch reiterated its buy recommendation for the stock in
a note today, citing earnings per share growth and
“supportive” operating environment.  The Standard & Poor’s  GSCI Index  of commodities was up 0.2
percent at 679.94. The  Russian Depositary Index  increased 1.6
percent, led by depositary receipts of  VTB , which rallied 5.8
percent.  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF , the largest dedicated
Russian exchange-traded fund, declined 0.2 percent to $30.25
yesterday. The  RTS Volatility Index , which measures expected
swings in futures, retreated 0.9 percent to 22.13 points. The
 Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index  of the most-traded Russian
stocks in the U.S. rose less than 0.1 percent yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  