-- Russian Investigators Question Former Minister in Fraud Case
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2013-02-13T16:14:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/russian-investigators-question-former-minister-in-fraud-case-1-.html
Russian investigators questioned a
former agriculture minister over suspected fraud while she was
head of a state-controlled leasing company.  Elena Skrynnik  answered questions for more than five hours
over the embezzlement of OAO Rosagroleasing funds intended for
the agriculture industry in 2007-2009, Andrei Pilipchuk, a
spokesman for the Interior Ministry in Moscow, said today by
phone. The alleged 600 million-ruble ($20 million) fraud was
masterminded by a local official, who’s now in hiding, together
with senior Rosagroleasing managers, the Interior Ministry said
by e-mail.  Skrynnik is the second high-ranking official to be caught
up in a corruption scandal after Defense Minister  Anatoly Serdyukov  was fired in November following a $133 million fraud
probe that brought charges against several of his former
subordinates.  Russia kept its ranking as the most corrupt of any Group of
20 nation, according to Transparency International’s 2012
Corruption Perceptions Index published in December, placing it
133rd out of 176 countries, below Uganda and Nicaragua.  Russian state television accused Skrynnik in November of
involvement in a $1.3 billion fraud. The Prosecutor General’s
Office said three years earlier that it had uncovered
“violations” in how Rosagroleasing spent 45 billion rubles of
state funds when Skrynnik was head of the company, the country’s
largest lessor of machinery to farmers.  Skrynnik, who was agriculture minister from 2009 to May
2012, denied the accusations in an  interview  from her home in
France published Nov. 28 in Komsomolskaya Pravda. She hasn’t
been charged with any crime and remains a witness in the case,
said Pilipchuk.  “She is cooperating with the investigation,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  