-- MTS to Magnit Premiums Shrink on Limit Removal: Russia Overnight
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2013-02-14T11:45:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/mts-to-magnit-premiums-shrink-on-limit-removal-russia-overnight.html
The premiums on stock traded abroad
of  OAO Mobile TeleSystems  and  OAO Magnit  over their Moscow
shares are shrinking as Russia moves to abolish limits on
converting equity.  American depositary receipts of  Mobile TeleSystems , the
country’s biggest mobile phone company, traded at a 14 percent
premium to the company’s Russia-listed  shares  yesterday, the
smallest gap since Jan. 30. Global DRs of food retailer Magnit
traded at a 15.7 percent premium Feb. 12, the narrowest spread
since April 5. The  Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index  of the most-
traded Russian stocks listed in the U.S. climbed to a one-week
high yesterday, while RTS Index stock futures fell.  Rules requiring trading accounts be set up through local
custodians and immediate settlement procedures are among quirks
of the Russian market that spur foreigners to buy company DRs
traded in developed nations. As it modernizes the Moscow
Exchange in a bid to lure more investment, Russia will scrap
regulations that limit DR conversions to a portion of a
company’s stock by July 2014,  Elena Kuritsyna , the deputy head
of the market regulator, said in Moscow yesterday.  “After the limits are canceled, the arbitrage is dead,”
 Ian Hague , co-founder of New York-based Firebird Management LLC
which manages $1.3 billion of assets including Russian stocks,
said in a phone interview from Tbilisi, Georgia, yesterday.
“That is a progressive step. It has potential to increase
liquidity dramatically.”  The  Bloomberg Russia-US  gauge rose 0.4 percent to 104.60
yesterday, the highest level since Feb. 6.  Futures  expiring in
March on Moscow’s RTS measure fell 0.5 percent to 160,390 in
U.S. hours. The  Micex Index  fell 0.7 percent to 1,527.10 by 2:51
p.m. in Moscow.  Finite Pool  Current regulations limit DR conversions to 25 percent of a
Russian company’s shares and 50 percent of their listed stock.  Companies including MTS, Magnit and  OAO Sberbank , the
nation’s biggest lender, have already reached their DR limits,
spurring a swelling in the premiums on their depositary receipts
as foreign investors buy and sell a finite pool of offshore-
traded stock, according to  Ilya Kravets , director of investment
research at Daniloff Capital LLC in New York.  As Russian authorities pledge to cancel the limits they
“are putting their neck on the line,” said Kravets, who helps
manage $100 million of assets including Russian equities.  “The restrictions can only be removed when foreign
investors feel secure and comfortable owning locally listed
shares,” he said. “Otherwise there is a risk that shares of
some strategically important companies will be moved outside of
the country in the form of depositary receipts.”  Euroclear Platform  The premium afforded MTS’ ADRs has narrowed from as wide as
29 percent in July as the Moscow Exchange seeks to move to a
system of settling trades over two days, in line with
international norms, and to make Russian stocks tradable on
Euroclear Bank SA’s platform from July 2014.  Russia should accelerate plans to make the country’s
equities available for trading through banks including Euroclear
to the start of 2014, Finance Minister  Anton Siluanov  said in an
interview in Moscow today.  Magnit’s GDR premium was as wide as 29 percent in
September. In comparison, China Telecom Corp. ADRs trade at a
0.6 percent premium to the Beijing-based phone company’s Hong
Kong shares, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Cia. Brasileira de
Distribuicao Grupo Pao de Acucar, Brazil’s biggest retailer,
trades 1.4 percent  above  its Sao Paolo-listed stock in New York.  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF , the biggest U.S.-traded
exchange-traded fund that holds Russian shares, rallied 1.4
percent to $30.67 yesterday, the biggest one-day gain since Jan.
25. The  RTS Volatility Index , which measures expected swings in
the index futures, retreated 0.4 percent to 21.02.  ‘Archaic Ways’  Delaying the scrapping of the DR limits until next year is
“a clear negative for Russia Inc.,”  Luis Saenz , head of equity
sales at BCS Financial Group, said by e-mail from London
yesterday. The disparities between foreign and locally listed
shares are due to Russia’s “archaic ways,” he said.  “This goes against the grain on liberalizing of the local
Russian market,” he said.“Why the hold up?”  The average value of Russia’s biggest companies is about 52
percent higher in London than in Moscow, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Sberbank fell 1.2 percent to $14.50 in New York yesterday,
cutting the premium on the Moscow-based lender’s ADRs to 0.1
percent over its stock listed on the benchmark Micex Index. The
advantage was as much as 1.5 percent Feb. 12 and will rise to as
much as 4 percent as foreigners seek out the securities, VTB
Capital analyst Mikhail Shlemov said Feb. 7. Sberbank said Feb.
6 that its conversion limit had been reached.  Target Basket  Futures expiring in March on Russia’s ruble showed the
currency little changed at 30.217 per dollar yesterday, as the
ruble fell less than 0.1 percent versus the dollar in Moscow to
30.0560. The currency closed steady at 34.7241 against the
 dollar-euro basket  used by the central bank to minimize swings
that hurt exporters.  Oil for March delivery fell 0.5 percent to $97.01 a barrel
in New York, dropping for the first time in three days. Brent
oil climbed less than 0.1 percent to $118.72 a barrel on the
London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Urals crude  fell 0.2
percent to $116.55.  United Co. Rusal, the world’s largest aluminum producer,
rose 2.2 percent to HK$4.67 in Hong Kong trading as of 10:49
a.m. local time. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 0.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  