-- Santander Probed by FSA on Advice During Mystery Shops
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-02-13T11:54:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/santander-probed-by-fsa-on-advice-during-mystery-shops.html
Banco Santander SA  said it was being
investigated by the U.K. Financial Services Authority over
investment advice its staff gave to researchers posing as retail
customers in so-called mystery shopper tests.  U.K. banks gave inadequate advice to a quarter of customers
in its review last year, the agency said. It referred Santander
to its enforcement division for further investigation, and told
other banks to improve how they deal with customers.  Santander will “review how it can offer advice to its
customers in the future for their benefit and provide access to
appropriate investment products,” according to an e-mailed
statement from the Madrid-based bank.  Banks including  Barclays Plc ,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc  and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc  have had to set aside more than
10 billion pounds ($15.6 billion) to pay back customers wrongly
sold insurance on personal loans. A probe by the FSA into
improperly sold interest rate derivatives may lead to another
5 billion pounds in compensation being paid to small businesses.  The regulator sent people, who didn’t identify themselves
as representing the FSA, out to invest money at six U.K. banks.
Employees gave them unsuitable advice 11 percent of the time,
the agency said in a statement. Advisers didn’t gather enough
information about the clients in 15 percent of visits.  “This review shows that customers are not consistently
getting the quality of advice on their investments that they
should expect when visiting an adviser in a bank or building
society,” said  Clive Adamson , FSA director of supervision.  Inappropriate Risks  Sarah Bailey, a spokeswoman for the FSA, declined to
comment on Santander being referred to the enforcement division.  The FSA considered the advice provided to be poor, due
primarily to inappropriate levels of risk, failure to consider
customers’ circumstances and the length of time they wanted to
hold an investment, according to the statement. This was the
first time since 2008 the regulator did a mystery shopper test.  The British Bankers’ Association said while the majority of
customers received good advice, more could be done.  “This exercise took place last year before the industry
implemented new FSA rules which mean advisers are now better
trained and are not paid commission for making sales,” the BBA
said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  