-- Scottish Independence Gains Support With Help of Young
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-02-13T13:44:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/scottish-independence-gains-support-with-help-of-young.html
Support among voters in Scotland for
becoming an independent country is rising, with a majority of
young voters now ready to quit the U.K., according to a poll
published today.  Backing for independence rose to 34 percent of respondents,
while those in favor of retaining the status quo fell to 55
percent, according to the Ipsos MORI survey published in today’s
London-based Times newspaper. The 21-percentage-point gap
compares with 28 points in October and 20 points in June, based
on reports from the same pollster.  “Our latest poll shows a boost in support for those
campaigning for Scottish independence, who will take some
encouragement from these findings,” Mark Diffley, director at
Ipsos MORI Scotland, said on the pollster’s  website . “Having
said that, support for independence is behind where it was a
year ago.”  Independence is the cornerstone policy of Scottish First
Minister  Alex Salmond  and his Scottish National Party. The poll
is the first to be published since a group of his economic
advisers, including Nobel Prize winner Joseph Stiglitz, set out
recommendations two days ago for how an independent Scottish
economy might work. The poll was carried out before the U.K.
government published a legal opinion the same day stating that
an independent Scotland would have to reapply for European Union
membership.  Young Voters  Since the last Ipsos MORI poll in October, support for
independence among 18-24-year-olds has more than doubled to 58
percent from 27 percent. Still, only 60 percent of that age
group said they were certain to vote in the referendum, compared
with 80 percent of older voters, Ipsos MORI said.  Respondents were asked the same question that will be on
the ballot paper: Should Scotland be an independent country?
Yes/No. The referendum is set to be held in the fall of 2014.  The survey was the first since the U.K. and Scottish
governments, as well as the Electoral Commission, settled the
process for the vote and the debate started to center on the
arguments for and against independence.  The poll also showed that Deputy First Minister  Nicola Sturgeon , who is fronting the independence campaign, has higher
approval ratings among voters than  Alistair Darling , the former
chancellor of the exchequer who is heading the campaign to keep
Scotland in the U.K.  The results of the latest poll are broadly in line with
levels of support Ipsos MORI recorded over the last 35 years,
the pollster said on its website.  The poll was conducted Feb. 4 to Feb. 9 among 1,003 voters.
No margin of error was given.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Woodifield  in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net  