-- Seattle’s Tallest Tower in Two Decades to House SLS Hotel
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t   a n d   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2013-02-13T20:21:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/seattle-s-tallest-tower-in-two-decades-to-house-sls-hotel.html
A Seattle office tower that’s
planned to be the city’s tallest new building in two decades
will include a luxury SLS hotel, the boutique brand’s first
location in the area, as property demand strengthens.  SBE Entertainment Group LLC, which owns the SLS brand, will
run the 184-room hotel on the tower’s second through 15th
floors, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Sam Nazarian  said.
The Los Angeles-based company also operates Hyde nightclubs and
the Katsuya and Cleo restaurant brands.  Construction will start on the $400 million downtown
building by Oct. 1 and completion is scheduled for mid-2016,
said Kevin Daniels, president of Seattle-based  Daniels Real
Estate , which is developing the 43-story tower with Stockbridge
Capital Group of San Francisco. The partners and Nazarian are
betting on continued growth in Seattle’s office and hospitality
markets, which outperformed the rest of the U.S. last year.  “Certain U.S. cities are benefiting greatly from the
economic superpower called China -- the money that is flowing
into homes and businesses here through Chinese nationals is
amazing,” Daniels said in a telephone interview. “Add to that
the economic and job growth at all the major employers in this
area, like Amazon, Nordstrom, Starbucks and Boeing, and you have
a city that is firing on all cylinders.”  The average office vacancy rate was 14 percent in Seattle
in the fourth quarter, compared with 17 percent nationally,
according to data from Reis Inc. Rents  averaged  $23.94 a square
foot, compared with $22.96 throughout the U.S., the New York-
based real estate research firm said.  Office Sales  Sales of office buildings in Seattle reached $5.06 billion
in 2012, up from $1.6 billion the previous year and the highest
annual total since 2007, when the figure was almost $11.1
billion, according to data provider Real Capital Analytics Inc.
Last year’s transactions included  Amazon.com Inc. ’s purchase of
its headquarters campus for $1.16 billion.  The northwestern city ranked fourth nationwide in office
sales last year, behind New York at $13.2 billion, San Francisco
at $6.4 billion and Los Angeles at $5.2 billion, according to
Real Capital.  “Even if you take out the Amazon sale, this would be the
largest year for Seattle since 2007,” said  Ben Thypin , director
of market analysis at New York-based Real Capital. “It’s
optimism about job growth. Seattle is one of the strongest
secondary markets in the country. As investors get priced out of
places like Manhattan and San Francisco and L.A., they look to
markets like Seattle.”  Hotels Outperform  Seattle’s hotel market has also outperformed the rest of
the country. Occupancy last year climbed to 71 percent from 69
percent in 2011, and average nightly rates increased 5 percent
to $120.39, according to Hendersonville, Tennessee-based
industry research company STR. That compares with a 61 percent
occupancy rate and average room rate of $106.10 nationally.  “Seattle’s business growth is generating demand in many
business sectors, and hospitality is one category that hasn’t
kept pace with new supply, largely given financing hasn’t been
there,”  Lisa Picard , Seattle-based executive vice president and
regional manager for the U.S. development unit of Swedish
construction company Skanska AB, said in an e-mail. “The
revenue growth has been strong by operators here in Seattle.
We’ve been approached by several flags wanting to expand.”  Leasing Challenges  The size of the new office tower and its location at the
southern end of the city’s downtown, an area dominated by
smaller firms, may make it challenging for the developers to
fill the space. The building may also face competition from the
Columbia Center across the street, according to Bruce Vasseur,
chief financial officer at Seattle-based O’Connor Consulting
Group LLC. Columbia Center is the tallest building in Seattle at
76 stories.  “The sheer volume of this project and doing it without any
committed tenants could be a challenge,” Vasseur said in a
telephone interview. Large employers such as “Boeing and
Microsoft are in other parts of town. Downtown Seattle is home
to mostly smaller firms. To fill that space with those types of
companies could be difficult.”  Daniels and Stockbridge obtained permits for the Seattle
property in 2008, Daniels said. Upon completion, the new
building would be the tallest since the 56-story Two Union
Square was finished in 1989, said Alan Justad, head of community
engagement for the Seattle Department of Planning and
Development.  Church Included  The companies purchased the land, which includes a
neighboring church, in March 2008 for about $30 million. The
church’s 12,000-square-foot main floor probably will house a
ballroom, and a restaurant is likely to be built on a lower
floor, according to  Arash Azarbarzin , president of SBE’s hotel
division.  The hotel-and-office project was put on hold five years ago
when the financial crisis hit, Daniels said.  “It was clear that this wasn’t the time to be moving
forward with such a large project,” he said.  The partners are in talks with six possible tenants,
according to Daniels.  Daniels also is building Stadium Place, a mixed-use project
that includes office, retail, residential and a hotel, in the
city’s Pioneer Square, Daniels said.  Barrack Investment  SBE, whose first hotel was in Los Angeles, also is
expanding to the East Coast. The company, which two years ago
received a $35 million infusion for expansion from billionaire
investor  Thomas J. Barrack Jr. ’s Colony Capital LLC, announced
in July a planned $85 million SLS hotel in New York. The company
is partnering with New York-based  Moin Development Corp.  on the
190-room project at 444 Park Ave. South, at 30th Street.  SBE  has said it wants to build SLS into a chain of boutique
hotels that would attract high-end leisure and business
travelers.  “If you look at the 10 to 15 major cities in the U.S.,
Seattle -- based on its workforce, its relevancy with Asia and
the fact that there’s this big white space between super-luxury
and the rest -- is a great place for a hotel like ours,”
Nazarian said in a telephone interview.  The Seattle hotel will be designed by  Philippe Starck , who
also will design the New York property and worked on the SLS
Hotel South Beach in Florida.  The hotel will house a restaurant, 5,000 square feet of
meeting space, a fourth-floor lounge and a spa. The property
also will have 25 to 30 suites among its 184 rooms.  “The location of the property is a real plus as it sits in
the high-density business district,” Azarbarzin said in a
telephone interview. “With the demand that’s around us, we will
have no problem filling this hotel.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nadja Brandt in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net ;
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  