-- Serb Central Bank to Consider Rate Cuts as Inflation Slows
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-02-13T13:18:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/serbian-central-bank-to-consider-rate-cuts-as-inflation-slows.html
Serbia’s central bank said it will
consider changes to its policy as inflation pressures weaken
after nine months of monetary tightening.  Inflation accelerated to 12.2 percent in December from 11.9
percent and the pace of increases in the coming months will
depend on government-controlled prices, the Belgrade-based
Narodna Banka Srbije said today in a quarterly inflation report.  “There are no risks to achieving our inflation forecast,
except that achieving the forecast may be delayed for a month or
two,” Governor  Jorgovanka Tabakovic  told a news briefing in
Belgrade. The central bank and the government will take steps to
curb inflation by stabilizing the food market and defining a
plan for regulated price increases.  Serbian rate-setters “will consider the possibility of
relaxing monetary policy” as “inflationary pressures based on
food and regulated prices disappear,” according to the report.
The central bank predicts a full-year increase in regulated
prices of 10.7 percent, with a 7 percent jump in the first three
months.  Regional Trend  The National Bank of Serbia has been running counter to
other authorities in eastern Europe, where borrowing costs are
falling to halt economic slowdowns amid the debt crisis. The
central bank has raised its benchmark interest rate by 2.25
percentage points to 11.75 percent since June, trying to bring
inflation within its target band of 2.5 percent to 5.5 percent.  The present interest-rate level represents “a sufficient
degree of restrictiveness if there are no deviations from
assumptions in our scenario,” Vice-Governor  Veselin Pjescic 
said at the same briefing.  The bank forecasts the firming dinar to help weaken
inflationary pressures, along with subdued consumer demand as a
result of “high unemployment and low real wages,” the bank
said in the report.  The inflation forecast also assumes economic contraction in
the euro area, Serbia’s main trading partner and investor, of
0.1 percent in 2013 and year-end inflation of “less than 2
percent,” it added.  Serbia’s economy will grow 2.5 percent this year after an
estimated 1.7 percent decline in 2012, with  Fiat SpA ’s factory
in Serbia contributing 1 percentage point and oil monopoly NIS a
half-point to growth, Tabakovic said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  