-- Sex Diseases Cost $16 Billion a Year to Treat, CDC Says
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-02-14T18:05:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/sex-diseases-cost-16-billion-a-year-to-treat-cdc-says.html
Sexually transmitted diseases  cost
$16 billion each year to treat in the U.S., with 19.7 million
infections diagnosed annually, the nation’s health agency found.  People ages 15 to 24 account for half of the annual cases,
according to reports released yesterday by the  Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention . There are about 110 million
total infections among U.S. men and women of all ages, the
agency said, with the most common infection human
papillomavirus, a virus linked to cancer.  Young people have borne a disproportionate burden of
sexually transmitted diseases for as long as the Atlanta-based
CDC has kept records, said Catherine Satterwhite, an author of
one of the reports and a CDC epidemiologist. They often don’t
have good insurance or difficulties accessing care, she said.  “We’ve seen a disproportionate burden for quite a while,”
Satterwhite said in a telephone interview. “Young women in
particular are at greater risk.”  The CDC reported data on eight sexually transmitted
infections, including HIV, syphilis, gonorrhea, hepatitis B,
chlamydia, trichomoniasis, herpes and HPV.  Drug-resistant gonorrhea is a growing threat, the agency
said in a  separate study  published today in the Morbidity and
Mortality Weekly Report. There aren’t enough antibiotics in
development and more experimental therapies are needed
immediately, according to the report. For now, to minimize the
spread of resistant strains, more people should be screened and
treated, the agency said.  Trends Persist  The sexually transmitted diseases study released yesterday,
which uses data from 2008, the most recent comprehensive
information available, isn’t directly comparable with previous
studies because of changes in the reporting methods, the CDC
said. However, some trends, including that of younger patients,
have persisted.  All sexually transmitted diseases are preventable, many are
curable and all are treatable, Satterwhite said. Getting more
people tested effectively, such as making sure more young women
are screened for  chlamydia  and all sexually active adults are
tested for HIV at least once, would help, she said.  The costliest STDs are HIV, which requires lifelong care,
and HPV, which causes throat, anal, penile, and cervical tumors.
Use of vaccines that can prevent HPV, made by  Merck & Co.  and
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc , have remained low as rates of HPV-related
cancers have risen, according to a study last month in the
Journal of the National Cancer Institute.  Curable sexually transmitted diseases cost $742 million,
with chlamydia as the most common and the most expensive.  Prevention strategies for STDs include abstaining from sex,
condom use, and mutually monogamous relationships, Satterwhite
said. The HPV vaccine made by Merck called Gardasil is
recommended for boys and girls to help prevent cancers.  The two reports on sexually transmitted infections’
prevalence and cost, were published in the journal  Sexually
Transmitted Diseases .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in San Francisco at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  