-- Shale Boom Draws EON to Hire U.S. Traders as EU Shrinks
-- B y   T i n o   A n d r e s e n ,   J u l i a   M e n g e w e i n   a n d   R a c h e l   M o r i s o n
-- 2013-02-13T15:39:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/shale-boom-draws-eon-to-hire-u-s-traders-as-europe-shrinks.html
EON SE  will start a U.S. power and
natural-gas trading operation as Germany’s largest utility seeks
to profit from North America’s shale-gas revolution.  The company, which already trades U.S. power and gas
derivatives from Germany, will hire five traders in Chicago,
executives at EON said. The group will trade physical power and
gas, may lease pipeline and storage capacity and is looking to
secure liquefied natural gas capacity from the U.S., they said.  EON, which has about 200 traders in its home town of
Dusseldorf, is grappling with a stagnant market in Europe as a
weak economy holds back energy demand. The company traded less
power, gas, carbon permits and coal in the first nine months of
2012 compared with a year earlier. North America offers a growth
as the boom in output from U.S. shale fields helps revive the
economy by cutting industry’s energy costs.  “For energy trading, North America has become more
important over the past 12 months because energy-intensive
industry is seeing an renaissance thanks to the slump in gas
prices,” Gareth Griffiths, EON Trading’s chief commercial
officer  for global merchant trading said in an interview in
Dusseldorf.  In addition, the retreat of some banks from commodities
markets offers a chance for others to expand, he said.  Gas Consumption  Gas consumption rose 3.1 percent in North America in the
first 10 months of 2012 versus a decline of 2.7 percent in
Europe, according to International Energy Agency data. The
benchmark gas price in the U.S. dropped 11 percent over the past
year while in Europe, costs for the fuel rose 13 percent over
the last twelve months.  The U.S. gas price at the benchmark Henry Hub traded 1.2
percent higher at $3.26 per million British thermal units at
11:30 a.m. Berlin time, while its European equivalent, the Dutch
month-ahead contract for gas, gained 0.2 percent to 27.57 euros
a megawatt-hour, or $10.86 million British thermal units,
according to broker data compiled by Bloomberg.  The U.S. shale gas boom has become a “game changer” for
energy markets and cannot be repeated easily in Germany, the
country’s environment minister Peter Altmaier said Feb. 12 at a
conference in Berlin. The U.S. is burning more natural gas for
power production instead of coal, while Europe is turning to
coal as gas plants are losing money, Altmaier said.  Chicago Office  EON will start trading physical U.S. power by November and
natural gas at the start of 2014.  Kevin Watler , director of
power and emissions based in Dusseldorf, who joined the company
last month, will be responsible for company’s U.S. trading team.
Chicago will be the trading business’s first satellite office,
five years after the company’s trading teams from across Europe
were brought together in Germany.  EON’s trading and optimization unit, which is also
responsible for long-term gas supply, saw profit jump in the
first nine-months of last year after contract renegotiations
with Russia’s  OAO Gazprom . Earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization were 1.96 billion euros ($2.6
billion) from 531 million euros a year earlier.  Proprietary trading reported 66 million euro loss on a
decline in profits trading eastern European power and oil,
according to a company filing.  EON trading and optimization employs 1,000 staff in
Dusseldorf in western Germany, 300 of whom are British. English
is the working language in the six-floor building overlooking
the Rhine River, where the trading floor of about 200 occupies
the top two levels. The team includes meteorologists to assess
the impact of weather on power demand and supply from Europe’s
growing number of wind farms and solar panels.  Shipping Business  The company has a large shipping business with a fleet of
ships under long-term hire to transport coal and is interested
in expanding into LNG shipping, Griffiths said.  The value at risk, a measure of how much they stand to lose
in a single day, at EON trading was about was 19 million euros
in 2011, according to the company’s annual report. That compares
to about 40 million euros at RWE Supply & Trading GmbH, the
trading unit of Germany’s second-largest utility RWE AG which is
already active in the U.S.  RWE started trading U.S. electricity in June. The team is
based in Essen buying and selling power in the nation’s East
coast market.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tino Andresen in Dusseldorf at 
 tandresen1@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Mengewein in Frankfurt at 
 jmengewein@bloomberg.net ;
Rachel Morison in London at 
 rmorison@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  