-- Shell’s North Sea Crude Benchmark Change Likely to Be Accepted
-- B y   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2013-02-13T15:37:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/shell-s-north-sea-crude-benchmark-change-likely-to-be-accepted.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc’s changes to
its pricing formula for  benchmark North Sea crudes  will probably
be adopted by the market, according to a Bloomberg News survey
of eight traders directly involved in the business.  The price of Brent, Ekofisk and Oseberg blends traded will
be adjusted for their superior quality based on the difference
to the more abundant, higher-sulfur Forties grade, Shell said in
a Feb. 8 statement. These four grades make up the  Dated Brent 
marker used to price more than half of the world’s oil. The new
rules came into effect on Feb. 11 and apply to cargoes for May
delivery onwards, according to the  notice .  The modifications are designed to increase liquidity in
Dated Brent trades at a time of falling North Sea production,
the traders said. The amendment should incentivize delivering
Brent, Ekofisk and Oseberg into the contract rather than only
 Forties , which is typically the cheapest, thus used to set the
benchmark. Platts, a pricing agency whose assessments are used
worldwide, hasn’t agreed to revise its methodology while BP Plc
supports the new accord.  “We have Shell and BP backing it up so we will potentially
see more cargoes being shown to the market,”  Olivier Jakob ,
managing director of Zug, Switzerland-based analysts Petromatrix
GmbH, said by phone today. “It will depend on what Platts do
but I think it has a chance to be adopted industry wide.”  Other oil companies will follow BP in agreeing to the new
terms, five out of the eight people surveyed said. Three people
declined to comment on the matter.  Custodian, Creator  Shell is the custodian and creator of the so-called SUKO 90
contract, which since 1990 has acted as an industry standard for
the trading of North Sea Brent Blend crude or Dated Brent. The
company imposed a 25 percent premium for Brent and Oseberg based
on their difference to the Forties differential while for
Ekofisk it will be 50 percent.  “The new robust and transparent quality premium mechanism
will support the Brent benchmark by allowing for more crude
grades and cargoes to be used in establishing the underlying
market price,”  Jonathan French , a Shell spokesman based in
London, said in the statement. “It will therefore contribute
toward higher liquidity and better price discovery.”  Sellers of Dated Brent, which was changed in January 2012
to extend the delivery period by four days to 25 days forward,
may deliver Brent, Forties, Oseberg or Ekofisk crude. Under the
new rules, buyers of Brent, Ekofisk or Oseberg, will be
obligated to pay a premium to account for those three grades’
superior quality, according to Shell.  Daily exports of the four main North Sea crudes will
decrease by 12 percent in March from this month, loading
programs obtained by Bloomberg News show. Production has fallen
year-on-year since for at least five years with March output 36
percent lower than in 2008, the data show.  Narrow Backwardation  “We believe these changes will improve the effectiveness
of the Brent contract as an international price benchmark,”
 Robert Wine , a BP spokesman in London, said by phone Feb. 11.  The knock-on effect of the change could be a narrowing of
the time-spread between the front two Brent contracts, which
have typically traded at a premium, or backwardation, according
to Petromatrix. This price structure signals limited immediate
supplies or weaker demand.  “The risk is that it will cut into the $1 a barrel
backwardation on the Brent spread as you are potentially putting
more cargoes in the chain, which will cap the spread, or
certainly limit the upward pressure on it,” Jakob said.  Brent futures have been in backwardation since July with
the spread between the front two contracts at 90 cents a barrel
today on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London.  Forties De-escalator  A separate clause already exists for the  Forties grade  that
gives buyers a discount for that crude due to its higher sulfur
content on a scale known as a de-escalator. Platts, the energy
pricing and news agency owned by McGraw-Hill Cos., set the de-
escalator at 30 cents a barrel from Feb. 1, meaning that sellers
will pay that amount for every 0.1 percentage point of sulfur
above an agreed 0.6 percent limit.  Platts said Feb. 8 that it won’t be using the quality
premium in Shell’s contract in its own BFOE assessment for now.  “While the industry may be exploring alternative concepts,
including the possible introduction of escalator mechanisms
within BFOE, Platts’ assessments shall not reflect escalators
until a formal methodology change has been proposed, announced,
and reviewed with all interested stakeholders, and formally
implemented,” it said in a Feb. 8 note to subscribers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  