-- Shorting PDG Rises as Backlog Climbs: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2013-02-13T15:37:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/shorting-pdg-rises-as-backlog-climbs-corporate-brazil.html
Traders are increasing bets  PDG
Realty SA Empreendimentos & Participacoes , Brazil’s worst-
performing homebuilder in 2012, will plunge further after short
positions returned more than 60 percent in the past year.  The ratio of borrowed shares -- an indication of  short
selling  -- in Brazil’s third-biggest homebuilder exceeds 16
percent, the third highest among companies on the benchmark
Bovespa index and up from 9.5 percent at the start of the year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Five of the 10 most-
shorted stocks in Brazil are homebuilders.  Developers have been working to clear backlogs of unsold
apartments since 2011 after overestimating demand in cities such
as Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo. Housing prices that rose 58
percent from August 2010 through last month, coupled with
slowing growth and rising consumer debt, have shut many buyers
out of the market.  “Looking ahead, there is the question of oversupply and
the weight of the cost of the structure of these companies,
which will be supported by fewer projects given the eroded
capital base and a market that has limited new projects,” said
 Claudio Andrade , a partner at Rio de Janeiro-based Polo Gestao
de Recursos, which owns shares in the builders.  Short Positions  MRV Engenharia  & Participacoes has the highest short
positions among developers and the second-highest on the Bovespa
at 20 percent of total float, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The ratio of borrowed shares also exceeds 10 percent for
builders  Rossi Residencial SA , Cyrela Brazil Realty SA
Empreendimentos & Participacoes and  Gafisa SA .  MRV fell 16 percent in the 12 months ended Feb. 8, while
PDG plunged 59 percent and Rossi tumbled 58 percent. Gafisa slid
2.4 percent, while  Cyrela , Brazil’s biggest homebuilder, gained
2.4 percent.  MRV rose 1.2 percent to 11.54 reais at 1:27 p.m. today in
Sao Paulo trading. Cyrela fell 1 percent to 17.32 reais, while
Rossi slid 0.2 percent to 4.08 reais and Gafisa dropped 0.8
percent to 4.79 reais. PDG was up 0.3 percent to 3.06 reais.  PDG declined to comment on short interest in its shares,
citing the approach of its fourth-quarter earnings release on
March 27. Bruna Campoy, a Gafisa spokeswoman, and Jeane Morais,
a spokeswoman for Rossi, didn’t return requests for comment.  New home sales in Sao Paulo, Brazil’s biggest city, peaked
in 2010 and plunged 21 percent the following year, when new
houses and apartments outpaced demand by a third. In response,
builders scaled back new projects, with Belo Horizonte, Brazil-
based MRV cutting housing starts by the fourth quarter of 2011.  Supply, Demand  “You have a process of supply and demand that will take
some time to rebalance,” MRV Chief Financial Officer  Leonardo Correa  said in a telephone interview. Shorting homebuilders
isn’t new, he said. “The liquidity of the stock ends up
attracting that kind of player.”  Among Brazil’s top six builders, PDG posted the steepest
year-over-year decline in operating margins in the third quarter
as costs surged and pre-sales plunged 63 percent.  “All of these companies have faced high cost increases and
difficulties in execution,”  Eduardo Silveira , an analyst at BES
Securities, said by telephone from Sao Paulo. For the year, “we
did a scenario of PDG going over budget by 1 billion reais -- a
number that size wouldn’t surprise us.”  Loss Estimate  PDG is projected to report an adjusted net loss of 348
million reais ($176 million) in 2012, the median of 13 analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The company’s results for at
least the next two years will remain negative, said Silveira,
who recommends selling PDG.  Standard & Poor’s said in a Dec. 21 statement that it has a
negative outlook for PDG’s BB- credit rating, three grades below
investment quality.  MRV  is trading at 7.8 times estimated 2013 earnings, and
 Rossi ’s multiple is 5.1, based on data compiled by Bloomberg.
That compares with an average of 11.3 for all companies on the
Bovespa index. Estimates weren’t available for PDG and Cyrela.  Further price increases should help builders recover,
Cyrela CFO  Jose Florencio Rodrigues Neto  said.  Real-estate prices in Brazil rose 14 percent in 2012 to
7,049 reais per square meter ($330 per square foot) in December,
according to an index compiled by economics research institute
FIPE and real-estate website Zap Imoveis.  “The market continues to do well, prices continue to
increase, although less so than in the past,” Rodrigues said in
a telephone interview. Sao Paulo-based  Cyrela  had fewer new
offerings in 2012 because project approvals were stalled, he
said. That damped sales, which he expects Cyrela to recover this
year. “The demand is there, people are buying homes,” he said.  Growth Opportunities?  “It important for investors to understand what is going on
with the company and not depend only on indicators,” Rodrigues
said. “The question that should guide investors is: Is there
space to grow in future, is the company doing its homework?”  While real-estate prices are rising on an annual basis,
purchases are still down from their 2010 high. New-home sales in
Sao Paulo fell 1.9 percent to 24,028 units in the first 11
months of 2012 from a year earlier.  “Investors are worried about demand for homes,” Silveira
said. “Demand for homes is sort of cooling.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in Sao Paulo at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  