-- Siauliu Bankas Jumps on EBRD-Backed Bid for Ukio: Vilnius Mover
-- B y   B r y a n   B r a d l e y
-- 2013-02-13T15:10:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/siauliu-bankas-jumps-most-in-3-years-on-ukio-bid-vilnius-mover.html
Siauliu Bankas AB  rose the most in
three years in Vilnius trading after the Lithuanian lender
announced plans to buy assets from rival Ukio Bankas AB, whose
operations were suspended yesterday.  The shares surged as much as 13 percent, the biggest
intraday gain since December 2009, and closed 10 percent higher
at a nine-month high of 0.267 euro. The volume of 345,009 shares
was equivalent to 837 percent of the three-month daily average,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Lithuania’s central bank appointed a temporary
administrator at Ukio yesterday to assess its financial
condition and recommend restructuring, nationalization or
bankruptcy within a week. Siauliu plans to negotiate a possible
takeover of Ukio’s banking business with the country’s central
bank, the Siauliai, Lithuania-based lender said on its  website 
today.  The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which
is Siauliu Bankas’s largest shareholder with a 19.6 percent
stake, said it would provide subordinated debt to strengthen the
lender before a possible Ukio deal.  Restoring Trust  “We welcome this swift move as a decisive step toward the
consolidation of the local banking sector and the strengthening
of its stability,” EBRD Managing Director for Central and South
Eastern Europe, Jean-Marc Peterschmitt, said in a statement e-
mailed from London.  Separately, Siauliu Bankas  said  that starting today it
would make advance payments of pensions to clients of Ukio
Bankas, whose accounts there were frozen, offering to open
accounts for pensioners and give them bank cards free of charge.  Selling Ukio, or the healthy parts of it, to Siauliu Bankas
is one of several options that the Bank of Lithuania will
consider for resolving the Kaunas, Lithuania-based lender’s
situation, central bank Chairman  Vitas Vasiliauskas  told
reporters today in Vilnius.  A decision is possible as soon as Feb. 16 and would be
based on the administrator’s report, Vasiliauskas said. Initial
estimates put Ukio’s total assets at about 3.5 billion litai
($1.4 billion), offset by problem loans of about 1.6 billion
litai that the bank had given to companies related to its
majority owner  Vladimir Romanov , the central banker said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bryan Bradley in Vilnius at 
 bbradley13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  