-- SingTel Profit Drops 8.3% on Optus Restructure, Globe
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g   a n d   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2013-02-14T07:36:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/singtel-third-quarter-profit-drops-8-3-on-optus-globe-charges.html
Singapore Telecommunications Ltd. ,
Southeast Asia’s biggest phone company, said third-quarter
profit fell 8.3 percent on charges from its Australian and
Philippine businesses and currency moves.  Net income  dropped to S$827 million ($669 million) in the
three months ended December, Singapore-based SingTel said in a
statement today. That missed the S$907 million average of four
 analyst estimates  compiled by Bloomberg and follows accelerated
depreciation charges at its Globe business in the Philippines
and costs from restructuring its Optus unit in Australia.  SingTel is revamping Optus and accelerating the roll out of
a faster Australian mobile network as mounting competition
crimps growth at its biggest unit by sales. Growth in Singapore
is slowing as the nation’s currency appreciated against the
Indonesian rupiah and the Thai baht last year and undermined the
value of earnings from regional affiliates.  “In Australia the competition is an issue and in Singapore
it’s a mixed bag,” said  Ramakrishna Maruvada , an analyst at
Daiwa Securities Group Inc. in Singapore. “There’s no change in
the underlying trends here.”  SingTel  shares  fell 1.9 percent to S$3.53 as of 3:30 p.m.
in the city state, the biggest decline since Dec. 24. The
benchmark Straits Times Index slipped 0.2 percent. The stock has
gained 14 percent over the past year, compared with a 10 percent
increase in the benchmark.  The company affirmed a November forecast that full-year
sales would fall by a “low-single digit level” because of
declines at Optus. Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation
and amortization will be “stable,” the company said.  Telstra Competition  “The performance of the group demonstrates the resilience
of our core operations,” Chief Executive Officer  Chua Sock Koong  said in a statement.  Third-quarter Ebitda at Optus, Australia’s second-largest
phone company, rose 2.6 percent to A$576 million ($596 million).
Revenue fell 5.7 percent. The unit is expanding fourth-
generation services as Telstra Corp. lures customers with a
larger and faster 4G network.  “The Australian industry has entered a phase of negative
mobile revenue growth,”  Kevin Russell , Optus’s chief operating
officer, told a media call today. “This market requires a
different emphasis.”  Ebitda from Singapore, where the former government agency
has about 47 percent of the mobile-phone market, rose 1.4
percent to S$531 million. The division accounted for about half
of SingTel’s operating income last year.  The company took one-time charges worth S$67 million for
changes at Optus and an upgrade to Globe’s network.  Bharti Slumps  The earnings contribution from regional associates rose 1.2
percent to S$455 million in the quarter as strong results from
its Indonesian and Thai affiliates limited the impact of weaker
results in India, the company said.  The pretax earnings contribution from Indian affiliate
 Bharti Airtel Ltd.  slumped 46 percent to S$70 million. Bharti on
Feb. 1 reported earnings that missed analyst estimates after a
weaker rupee boosted finance and network equipment costs.  SingTel owns all of its Singapore and Australian phone
businesses in addition to minority stakes in six other mobile
operators with 473 million customers in more than 20 countries
in Asia and Africa.  The company last month agreed to sell its entire 30 percent
stake in Warid Telecom (Private) Ltd. to Warid Telecom Pakistan
LLC for $150 million. The Singaporean company will also have a
right to receive a 7.5 percent share of net proceeds from any
future sale, public offering or merger.  The company on Jan. 25 submitted interest for
telecommunications licenses in Myanmar with local partners.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net ;
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  