-- Slacker Re-Emerges in Internet Radio Challenging Pandora
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2013-02-13T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/slacker-re-emerges-in-web-radio-challenging-pandora-spotify.html
Slacker Inc. has spent the past six
years as an also-ran in the digital-music business, where even
the leaders have struggled to make money.  The San Diego-based company says that’s about to change,
with a revamped mobile application, website and a $5.5 million
advertising campaign attacking rivals  Pandora Media Inc.  and
Spotify Ltd. In preparation, the startup has more than doubled
its staff to 90 in the past eight months.  “It’s an opportunity for us to throw a punch when nobody’s
looking,” said Chief Marketing Officer  Craig Rechenmacher , who
joined from  Electronic Arts Inc.  in July and opened the
company’s marketing office in Palo Alto, California.  For consumers, Slacker presents another choice in a crowded
field. The company is touting a music service with 10 times the
number of songs as Pandora, as well as content from  Walt Disney
Co. ’s ESPN and ABC networks. In a market where Pandora gets
close to 90 percent of its sales from ads, Slacker focuses on
paid subscriptions, which account for two-thirds of revenue.  Chief Executive Officer  Jim Cady  said Slacker invested
heavily in consumer research to see what it would take to get
people to switch from competing offerings, and what they would
be willing to pay. The company sells a monthly $3.99 ad-free
 service  that includes unlimited song-skipping, and a $9.99
package that makes any song or album offered by Slacker
available on demand. Cady said more than 500,000 of Slacker’s 4
million active users are paying subscribers.  “It’s really an ad business that is helping a subscription
business, but not dominating the subscription business,” Cady
said.  Music Discovery  Slacker’s new mobile app and website are designed to make
it easier for members to discover music and use premium
features. The company has to overcome its past setbacks,
including a failed foray into the hardware business, followed by
an unsuccessful effort to compete with Pandora in the ad-
supported market. Slacker has raised $50 million in venture
funding since 2010 to build its digital business, the company
said.  For the ad campaign, Slacker is spending $2 million upfront
and $3.5 million the rest of the year. In a commercial, a
character complains about Pandora’s smaller music library, and a
display ad criticizes Spotify for its propensity to post
annoying updates to a user’s Facebook Inc. account. The ads will
show up on sites including  Google Inc. ’s YouTube, Vox Media
Inc.’s SBNation and Spin Music Group’s Buzznet.  Growing Market  Winning won’t be easy. Pandora boasts more than 65 million
unique monthly members, and Spotify has more than 20 million,
compared with Slacker’s 4 million. Meanwhile, there’s a whole
crop of other digital-music and radio offerings from companies
like Rdio Inc., Rhapsody International Inc. and TuneIn Inc. And
they all face the looming threat of Apple Inc. The iPhone maker
has been in talks with labels about a Web-radio service, people
with knowledge of the negotiations told Bloomberg in October.  Marija Jaroslavskaja , an analyst at IHS iSuppli in Santa
Clara, California, estimates that revenue in the market for
digital-music subscriptions will more than triple by 2016 to
$986.9 million from $319.2 million last year.  “It’s a matter of getting users,” Jaroslavskaja said.
Slacker’s “business model distinguishes them from the rest of
the players in the U.S. market, but in terms of the consumer
proposition, that’s more difficult,” she said.  On the cost side, the biggest difference between Slacker
and Pandora is how they pay royalties. Slacker has direct
relationships with all of the major record labels and more than
1,000 independents, while Pandora has a licensing deal with
SoundExchange, a trade group that collects royalties and
distributes them to artists and publishers.  Royalty Requirements  For Slacker, each deal includes an upfront licensing fee
and then a revenue share. The company has struck similar deals
with ABC, ESPN, the Weather Channel and  American Public Media .  Slacker keeps about 50 percent of the revenue it generates,
a number that should go up as the service attracts users, Cady
said. Pandora paid royalties amounting to 60 percent of its
revenue in the first 10 months of 2012. The Oakland-based
company is pushing lawmakers to pass a bill that would lower
royalty requirements for online radio services to levels paid by
satellite and cable-radio services.  Pandora’s stated path to profitability comes from mobile
ads, where revenue growth has finally caught up to consumers’
transition to smartphones from desktops. Mobile revenue more
than doubled in the fiscal third quarter to $73.9 million,
compared with the 85 percent increase in the number of hours
consumers used the mobile service.  Radio Reach  Dominic Paschel , a spokesman for Pandora, declined to
comment on specific competitors. He reiterated the company’s
goal of reaching a 20 percent operating margin as revenue growth
continues, regardless of the royalty rate. Pandora’s third-
quarter  margin  was 1.8 percent. The company said its market
 share  for all U.S. radio reached 8 percent in January from 5.6
percent a year earlier.  Slacker’s revenue has doubled each of the past three years
and should do so again in 2013, bringing the company to
profitability, Cady said.  Luring users to its ESPN offering is one way he plans to
get there. Slacker brings live national and regional feeds from
the sports network as well as snippets of various popular shows.
Paid subscribers can personalize their stations to prioritize
updates from their hometown teams. In March, ESPN will roll out
a Slacker station featuring Scott Van Pelt and Ryen Russillo,
hosts of the  SVP & Russillo  show.  “We’re constantly looking at the marketplace and trying to
find folks that allow us to achieve our goal,” said Patrick
Polking, a senior director of distribution and business
development at ESPN’s audio division. “Our mission is to serve
sports fans anywhere and everywhere.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  