-- Slim Said to Weigh Seeking KPN CEO Ouster Before Share Sale
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-02-13T22:13:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/slim-said-to-seek-conditions-for-supporting-kpn-stock-sale-1-.html
Carlos Slim , the world’s richest
man, may seek the ouster of  Royal KPN NV ’s chief executive
officer and other changes before agreeing to support the Dutch
phone company’s planned 4 billion-euro ($5.4 billion) share
sale, according to people familiar with the matter.  America Movil SAB , the Slim-backed company with a 28
percent stake in The Hague-based KPN, may impose conditions
including a seat on KPN’s board, the replacement of  Eelco Blok 
with a new CEO, or other management changes, the people said,
asking not to be identified discussing a private matter. America
Movil will almost certainly not participate in the rights offer
unless at least some conditions are met, though the specifics of
its requests haven’t been decided, said the people.  KPN is among European phone companies looking at asset
sales and raising capital to cope with the rising costs of
maintaining high-speed networks for devices like  Apple Inc. ’s
iPhone. Under Blok, who took over in 2011, KPN’s shares have
plunged more than 70 percent amid stagnant revenue and abortive
attempts to sell its Belgian unit and merge its German
operations with those of  Telefonica SA .  America Movil “has no incentive to subscribe to a rights
issue, let alone buy KPN,”  Robin Bienenstock , an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein, wrote in a note to clients today. “We are
deeply pessimistic about potential long-term value creation at
KPN and would argue that there is a real possibility that KPN
ends up in the hands of creditors if there is no rights issue.”  Position Unclear  Stefan Simons , a KPN spokesman, declined to comment. Slim
declined to comment today at an event in Texcoco, Mexico.
America Movil will announce a decision on the KPN offer early
next week, Chief Financial Officer  Carlos Garcia-Moreno  said
today on a conference call.  KPN shares dropped from an intraday high of 3.42 euros
after Bloomberg News reported the discussions. The stock was up
4.5 percent at 3.27 euros at the close of trading in Amsterdam.  KPN shares fell as much as 25 percent on Feb. 5, the day
the company said it plans to sell stock to current investors.
Blok said at the time that Slim’s position was unclear. America
Movil slid 10 percent at the close in Mexico City after its
earnings missed analysts’ estimates.  March Meeting  The Mexican company bid 8 euros a share for its KPN stake
last year, citing the Dutch operator’s long-term growth
prospects among its motivations for making the investment. KPN
shareholders are set to vote on the share sale proposal at a
meeting on March 19.  “We will question the need of the enormous rights issue,”
said Jasper Jansen, an economist at the investor lobby group
VEB, which represents holders of about 1 million KPN shares.
“Shareholders are bleeding with the dilution that is taking
place. We won’t exclude voting against the rights issue.”  The former Dutch phone monopoly spent 1.35 billion euros
acquiring wireless spectrum in the Netherlands in December. It
faces a new challenger there from Sweden’s  Tele2 AB , which will
offer consumers mobile services after buying its own spectrum in
the same auction. That makes the Netherlands one of the few
European countries in which the number of mobile operators is
growing rather than shrinking, increasing competition and
potentially driving down prices.  Moody’s Investors Service rates KPN’s  debt  Baa2, the
second-lowest investment grade, while Standard & Poor’s ranks
the debt one step lower, at BBB-.  First Foray  Slim’s decision to invest in KPN was the first major foray
into Europe for  America Movil , which dominates Mexico’s wireless
market and operates throughout Latin America, typically in close
competition with Spain’s Telefonica. The group also built a 23
percent stake in  Telekom Austria AG  last year, prompting
speculation Slim could eventually attempt to merge his European
assets.  At the time, Slim’s son and America Movil co-chairman
Carlos Slim Domit described the KPN deal as an attempt to find
opportunity in “hard times” for Europe’s economy ahead of an
eventual recovery in the region.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  