-- Slovenian Leader Vows More Talks as Early Vote, Bailout Loom
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2013-02-14T17:29:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/slovenia-seeks-to-break-gridlock-as-early-vote-bailout-loom.html
Slovenian President  Borut Pahor 
agreed to continue talks to break a political deadlock that
threatens to spark early elections as the euro member tries to
avoid a bailout.  Pahor met party leaders including Prime Minister  Janez Jansa  today in the capital, Ljubljana. The talks were arranged
to discuss “common and responsible behavior about the most
important questions for the interests of the state and the
benefit of the people at the time of increased political
uncertainty,” Pahor’s office said yesterday in a statement.  Slovenia, on the brink of becoming the sixth euro member to
ask for a bailout, has drafted a 4 billion-euro ($5.4 billion)
bank recapitalization plan that would take up bad loans from
ailing lenders. The proposal may be derailed by early elections
as a political crisis deepens over corruption allegations
against Jansa.  The People’s party, a member of Jansa’s minority
government, said yesterday it would support a no-confidence vote
against the current administration and refused to be part of a
new technocrat Cabinet being pushed by the largest opposition
group, Positive Slovenia.  ‘Continued Flux’  “It now seems difficult to see the two remaining parties
in the ruling coalition managing to endure much longer in a
minority capacity, and early elections would appear the most
likely outcome,”  Timothy Ash , an emerging-markets economist at
Standard Bank Plc in London, said yesterday in an interview.
“The continued flux on the domestic political scene is expected
to put further downward pressure on the sovereign ratings and
also Slovenian asset prices.”  Slovenia had its credit score cut by Standard & Poor’s Feb.
12 by one level to A-, the fourth-lowest investment grade,
because of rising debt levels and uncertain growth prospects.
That brought the S&P rating to the same level as Fitch Ratings
while Moody’s Investors Service gives the Adriatic nation a Baa2
score, the second-lowest investment rating.  The yield on the nation’s dollar-denominated debt maturing
in 2022 rose to a record 5.7836 percent Nov. 15 as opposition
parties and trade unions threatened a referendum on the bank
recapitalization plan. The motion was struck down by the
Constitutional Court. The yield on the notes has dropped since
and was at 5.0485 percent today in Ljubljana, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Debt Sales  “We aren’t excluding Slovenian bonds will underperform and
the rating change affecting the planned sale of bonds in the
near term,”  Matjaz Music , director of economic research at Hypo
Alpe-Adria Banka d.d. in Ljubljana, said in a report yesterday.  Slovenia wanted to sell as much as 3 billion euros of debt
this year and planned to tap the U.S. bond market, Deputy
Finance Minister  Dejan Krusec  said in a Jan. 15 interview. He
has since stepped down from his post. Jansa rejected the state’s
borrowing plans for this year, overruling the Finance Minister
 Janez Sustersic , who has also resigned.  Jansa’s Cabinet, which took power a year ago after an early
vote following the collapse of the previous government, passed
legislation on the plan, as well as the creation of a sovereign
holding and pension changes that are meant to make the  economy 
more competitive and pull it out of its second recession in
three years.  “Slovenia is most probably heading toward the ‘caretaker
government,’ which will result in early elections later in the
year unless premier Jansa asks for a confidence vote,”  Jaromir Sindel , an economist at Citigroup Inc. in Prague, said by phone.
Sindel sees a chance the country can avoid a bailout as the S&P
cut “could put pressure on politicians to work on a way out
from the current political crisis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  