-- SNS Reaal Default Swaps Triggered by Restructuring Credit Event
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2013-02-13T16:00:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/sns-reaal-default-swaps-triggered-by-restructuring-credit-event.html
The nationalization of SNS Reaal NV
constitutes a restructuring  credit event  that will trigger
payouts on derivatives insuring the debt, according to the
International Swaps & Derivatives Association.  ISDA’s determinations committee, a group of 15 dealers and
money managers that govern the market, will meet tomorrow to
decide whether to hold one or more auctions to settle the
contracts, the industry group said on its  website . Settlement
may be distorted because the securities that could be delivered
in exchange for compensation were expropriated by the Dutch
government.  “The issue of deliverables has arisen on multiple
occasions and been averted every time by good luck or good
judgment,” said  Matt King , global head of credit strategy at
Citigroup Inc. in London. “It’s unclear if that will happen
this time.”  SNS was nationalized after real estate losses brought the
fourth-largest Dutch bank to the brink of collapse.
Expropriation isn’t explicitly covered by ISDA’s defined
categories of credit events, which include bankruptcy, failure
to pay and restructuring, and the committee twice deferred a
ruling.  Though contracts on SNS aren’t actively traded, the impact
of the expropriation is proving a test for the market. ISDA is
working on changes to standard swaps contracts to address issues
highlighted by credit events since the definitions were written.  Contracts on SNS aren’t among the 1,000 most-traded
entities tracked by the  Depository Trust & Clearing Corp. , which
runs a central registry for the market. Swaps pay the buyer face
value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  