-- SocGen Cooperating With Authorites on Libor, Chief Says
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i   a n d   C a r o l i n e   C o n n a n
-- 2013-02-13T06:01:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/socgen-still-cooperating-with-authorities-on-libor-chief-says.html
Societe Generale SA , which is
investigating its contributions to interbank rate panels
including the London Interbank Offered Rate, continues to work
with authorities on the issue, Chief Executive Officer  Frederic Oudea  said.  “We’re carrying on with cooperating with the regulators,”
Oudea said in an interview with Bloomberg Television. Societe
Generale has “no new facts” and “nothing really new to add to
our previous comments” on the investigation the bank is making
on its contributions to benchmark interest rates such as Libor
and the euro interbank offered rate, he said.  As a member of panels that help set interbank rates,
including Libor, Societe Generale has received requests from
different regulators, Oudea said in August.  “To date, we have not received any notice of wrongdoing,”
he said in an Aug. 1 interview. Societe Generale, based in
Paris, said that same month that it started an internal
investigation over its contributions to interbank rate panels.  Oudea, asked today whether a fourth-quarter “general”
provision may also cover risks for possible fines, said that
“yes, if there is fines going forward, yes of course it’s there
in our accounts.”  Societe Generale, France’s second-biggest bank, took a 300
million-euro ($404 million) provision for “litigation issues”
in the fourth quarter, it said in a statement today, without
adding further details.  “We have taken I would say a global provision in the
fourth quarter for all our litigations in a conservative
approach because we see more and more litigations on different
businesses,” Oudea said in the interview. “We felt, in order
to prepare 2013 as well as possible, it made sense to make a
general provision and we’ll see.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Connan in London at 
 cconnan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  