-- SocGen Posts Fourth-Quarter Loss on Newedge, Legal Expenses
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2013-02-13T08:35:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/societe-generale-posts-fourth-quarter-loss-on-newedge-writedown.html
Societe Generale SA , France’s
second-largest bank, posted a fourth-quarter loss after writing
down its stake in derivatives broker Newedge Group and setting
aside 300 million euros ($403 million) for legal expenses.  The shares fell after the Paris-based lender said today it
had a net  loss  of 476 million euros, compared with a 100
million-euro profit a year earlier. That missed the average
estimate for a loss of 203 million euros by 10 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg. The bank had goodwill writedowns of 392 million
euros in the quarter, mostly on Newedge.  Societe Generale cut jobs and sold assets last year to cope
with stricter international capital and liquidity rules after
French banks had their access blocked to U.S. dollar funding and
European debt markets. The writedowns and litigation costs in
the quarter offset a rebound in earnings at the corporate- and
investment-banking unit, where the firm trimmed about 1,600 jobs
in 2012 after shuffling management at the business.  “Clearly the beginning of the year was good” for capital
markets even if for the economic outlook “no one is expecting
an upside” this year, Chief Executive  Frederic Oudea , 49, said
in an interview with Bloomberg Television. “We know that 2013
will be a year of transition for Europe.”  Societe Generale  dropped  3.6 percent to 31.49 euros at 9:16
a.m. in Paris, cutting its gain this year to 11 percent and
giving it a market value of 24.7 billion euros. BNP Paribas SA,
France’s biggest bank, has added 7.3 percent in the period.  Legal Costs  Societe Generale took a 300 million-euro fourth-quarter
charge on “litigation issues,” it said, without giving further
details. The lender also took a 686 million-euro charge related
to its own debt in the quarter. Banks book accounting charges or
gains tied to the theoretical cost of buying back their own debt
as market prices fluctuate.  The firm is reorganizing its main businesses “to improve
commercial and operational efficiency,” the company said today
in a separate statement, without giving any cost-cutting
targets. Societe Generale’s structure will have three main units
made up of French retail banking and a new business blending
international branch networks with specialized financial
services. It will also combine corporate and investment banking
with investment-management services including private banking.  Asset Sales  Societe Generale last year sold its Greek branch network
and it also agreed to dispose of its stakes in Los Angeles-based
asset manager TCW Group Inc. and its Egyptian consumer-banking
unit. The French bank has achieved “the lower end of its target
range” for asset disposals, it said today.  The lender also reorganized some of its executive
management.  Philippe Heim , currently deputy chief financial
officer, will become CFO starting March 1, replacing  Bertrand Badre , who is joining the Washington-based World Bank. Jacques
Ripoll, who oversaw private banking and global investment
management and services, is leaving Societe Generale, while
Didier Valet, head of the corporate and investment bank, will
also be in charge of Ripoll’s businesses.  “It’s rather good,” said  Alex Koagne , an analyst at
Natixis SA in Paris with a neutral rating on the stock. “The
reorganization continues and there might be more asset sales.”  Basel Goal  The lender, which trails  BNP Paribas  in building up its
capital buffer, confirmed today that it aims to reach a core
Tier 1 ratio under Basel III of 9 percent to 9.5 percent by the
end of 2013.  Societe Generale’s customer deposits last year rose by 16
billion euros “within stable sources of funds,” the bank said.
The company said last month that complying with a 100 percent
Basel III 30-day liquidity ratio is “within its reach.” BNP
Paribas has said that deposits from large companies are “at the
heart” of its global corporate banking business.  BNP Paribas, which is scheduled to report earnings
tomorrow, will probably have a 1.01 billion-euro fourth-quarter
profit, up from 765 million euros a year earlier, according to
the average estimate of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
 Deutsche Bank AG , Europe’s biggest bank by assets, last month
posted a 2.17 billion-euro quarterly loss as it eliminated more
than 1,400 staff and set aside 1 billion euros for legal costs.  Societe Generale had a “liquid asset buffer” of 133
billion euros at the end of December, covering 101 percent of
its short-term needs, the bank said in a web presentation. The
company last year had a “significant rise in the surplus of
stable resources over long-term assets,” it said.  Liquidity Rules  Global central bank chiefs last month gave lenders four
more years to fully comply with international liquidity rules.
Banks in the European Union may have to agree to them before
competitors in other parts of the world, according to a document
obtained by Bloomberg.  The liquidity coverage ratio -- which would force banks to
hold enough easy-to-sell assets to survive a 30-day credit
squeeze -- is part of an overhaul of global financial rules,
known as Basel III, intended to prevent a repeat of the
financial crisis that followed the 2008 collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.  Societe Generale, which omitted a  dividend  for 2011 as it
accumulated capital, will pay a dividend of 45 euro cents a
share for 2012, corresponding to a 26 percent payout on profit
excluding the effects of own-debt revaluations, it said. The
firm’s full-year net income fell 68 percent to 774 million
euros.  LTRO Payments  Societe Generale’s corporate and investment bank completed
its 16 billion-euro loan-disposal program started in June 2011
and over the last 18 months it also sold 19 billion euros of
assets left over from the U.S. subprime crisis, it said.  Securities firms have posted gains in revenue since
European Central Bank President Mario Draghi’s July pledge to do
“whatever it takes” to defend the euro sparked a rally in bond
markets.  French banks, the biggest foreign holders of private and
public debt in the euro-area’s problem economies, benefited from
the ECB’s moves. The Frankfurt-based central bank flooded
financial markets with more than 1 trillion euros of three-year
funds through its Longer-Term Refinancing Operations in December
2011 and February 2012. Banks have already pledged to return
145.6 billion euros.  While the ECB doesn’t provide a breakdown of the
institutions returning the loans, some banks have indicated that
they’re handing money back. Spain’s Banco Santander SA said it
returned 24 billion euros of ECB’s longer-term refinancing
operations.  CIB Rebound  Societe Generale  started repaying the ECB’s three-year
loans in January, Oudea said today, without giving an amount.
The loans were “a kind of an insurance premium” and “it’s
good to reduce slightly the cost of the premium and to do that
progressively,” he said.  Societe Generale’s corporate- and investment-banking unit
had a 249 million-euro profit in the quarter compared with a
loss of 482 million euros a year earlier, beating analysts
estimates for earnings of 219 million euros. Global-markets
revenue climbed 33 percent to 1.03 billion euros as sales from
fixed-income, currencies & commodities jumped by 75 percent
while the equities business declined by 5 percent.  Full-year revenue from global-market activities, which
includes trading on equity and fixed-income securities, was 4.88
billion euros in 2012, up 18 percent from a year earlier, the
bank said.  Bad Loans  Societe Generale also had 92 million euros in net losses
from reducing assets left over from the U.S. subprime crisis,
according to a web presentation. The French bank has about 3.1
billion euros in non-investment grade subprime assets at the end
of 2012, it said.  Net income from Societe Generale’s French consumer-banking
 network  fell 16 percent to 254 million euros, missing analysts’
estimates for 294 million euros. The unit’s provisions for bad
loans in the fourth quarter rose 27 percent to 300 million
euros, it said.  At its international consumer-banking business, profit fell
69 percent to 23 million euros in the quarter. In Romania, “the
marked deterioration in the economic situation” led to a
“sharp increase” in bad-loan provisions last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  