-- Solow Sues Citigroup, BofA Alleging Manipulation of Libor
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-02-13T19:25:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/solow-sues-citigroup-bofa-alleging-manipulation-of-libor.html
A  Sheldon H. Solow -led New York
realty company sued  Citigroup Inc. ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. ,  Bank
of America Corp.  and several other banks for allegedly
conspiring to manipulate the U.S. dollar Libor rate.  In a complaint filed today in federal court in Manhattan, 7
West 57th Street Realty Co. accused the banks of falsely
reporting to the British Bankers Association interest rates at
which the lenders themselves were able to borrow money day to
day, causing the BBA to set an “artificial” London Interbank
Offered Rate for trillions of dollars worth of transactions
including bank loans and municipal bonds.  Claiming those acts resulted in Solow having to pay a
judgment of more than $100 million, the real estate developer’s
company is accusing the banks of racketeering conspiracy,
violation of federal antitrust laws for which he’d be entitled
to trebled damages and breach of a New York state law governing
the free exercise of business and commerce.  Also named as defendants in the lawsuit are  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc , which this month agreed to pay $612 million
to U.S. and U.K. regulators to resolve Libor manipulation
claims,  Barclays Plc , the U.K.-based bank that in June agreed to
pay 290 million pounds ($454 million), and  UBS AG , which in
December was fined 1.4 billion Swiss francs ($1.5 billion)
by U.S., U.K. and Swiss regulators for its rate-rigging role.  Solow, who assigned his claims to 7 West according to the
complaint, “purchased and subsequently pledged a portfolio of
over $450 million worth of high-grade (typically insured and
pre-funded) municipal bonds as collateral for Libor denominated
loans.”  Inadequate Security  While Libor was artificially inflated, Citigroup declared
Solow’s portfolio to be inadequate security, declared a default
and seized and sold that collateral at “artificially low
prices,” the real estate firm alleged, compelling Solow to pay
a judgment in excess of $100 million last year.  The developer paid that money without then knowing of the
banks’ alleged rate manipulation, according to the complaint.  Asked in a telephone interview today why his client
assigned his claims to his business, Solow’s attorney  Andrew Hayes  replied, “We’re trying to keep the focus where it should
be, which is Libor.”  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a spokeswoman for New York-based
JPMorgan Chase, didn’t immediately respond to a telephone
message seeking comment on the allegations.  Danielle Romero-Apsilos , a spokeswoman for New York-based
Citigroup, and  Lawrence Grayson , a spokesman for Charlotte,
North Carolina-based Bank of America, declined to comment on the
allegations.  The case is 7 West 57th Street Realty Co. LLC v. Citigroup
Inc., 13-cv-0981, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  