-- Corn Has Longest Slump Since ’80 on South America Outlook
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s   a n d   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2013-02-13T21:30:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/soybeans-rebound-as-port-bottlenecks-seen-holding-up-brazil-crop.html
Corn futures fell, capping the
longest slump in 32 years, on speculation that beneficial
weather will boost crops in Argentina, the world’s second-
biggest exporter, and Brazil.  As much as 0.75 inch (1.9 centimeters) of rain fell in
Argentina overnight, and an additional 1.75 inches are expected
starting Feb. 17, easing stress from dry conditions this year,
Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda, Maryland, said in a
report. Precipitation will boost crops in southern Brazil in the
next two weeks, and drier weather in northern areas will aid
harvesting, the company said.  Corn prices dropped for the ninth straight session, the
longest slide since December 1980. The U.S. Department of
Agriculture said on Feb. 8 that global reserves as of Oct. 1
will be 118.04 million metric tons, up from 115.99 million
predicted last month and surprising analysts who forecast a
decline. Combined output in Argentina and Brazil will increase
5.9 percent this year.  “South America, for the most part, has a good-sized crop
in the bag,”  Jason Britt , the president of brokerage Central
States Commodities Inc. in Kansas City, Missouri, said in a
telephone interview. “Argentina is still up for debate, but
it’s stabilizing.”  Corn futures for March delivery dropped 0.1 percent to
settle at $6.955 a bushel at 2 p.m. on the Chicago Board of
Trade. Trading volume doubled compared with the average in the
past 100 days.  The grain has tumbled 17 percent from a record settlement
of $8.3875 on Aug. 21. The all-time high intraday price was
$8.49 on Aug. 10 following a drought that cut production in the
U.S., the top exporter.  Feed, Ethanol  Larger inventories may reduce livestock-feed costs for pork
producer  Smithfield Foods Inc.  and poultry processor Sanderson
Farms Inc. Grain-based ethanol production has declined in the
U.S., and plants are closing.  In the four months ended Jan. 31, exports from the U.S.
have tumbled 55 percent to 8.12 million tons from a year
earlier, USDA  data  show.  Wheat prices rebounded from a seven-month low on
speculation that rain will miss major growing areas in the U.S.,
the top exporter.  Storms expected in parts of the Great Plains in the next
seven to 10 days probably won’t help winter wheat in western
Kansas and Oklahoma, Telvent DTN in Omaha, Nebraska, said in a
report.  ‘Already Worried’  “People have to remember we’re coming off the worst
drought” since the Dust Bowl era of the 1930s, Jason Britt, the
president of Central States Commodities Inc., a brokerage in
Kansas City, Missouri, said in a telephone interview. “There’s
not a farmer out there who’s not already worried about that.”  Wheat futures for March delivery gained 0.5 percent to
$7.355 a bushel in Chicago. Earlier, the price touched $7.225,
the lowest for a most-active contract since June 25.  Soybean futures for May delivery gained 0.3 percent to
$14.135 a bushel. The price dropped in the previous five
sessions, the longest slump since September.  Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, followed by soybeans, hay
and wheat.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tony C. Dreibus  in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  