-- Swiss Property Bubble Concern Seen Prompting Tightening
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r   a n d   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 2013-02-14T12:34:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/swiss-property-bubble-concern-seen-prompting-tightening.html
Switzerland’s central bank has a
message for lenders: act now to stem surging credit growth or
face further restrictions.  The government, at the urging of the Swiss National Bank,
yesterday ordered banks to hold additional capital as a buffer
against risks posed by the country’s biggest property boom in
two decades. The amount, set at 1 percent of banks’ risk-
weighted assets tied to domestic residential mortgages, can be
increased to as high as 2.5 percent.  “The measure is a warning shot at banks that were
overgenerous with their credit lending,” said  Janwillem Acket ,
chief economist at Julius Baer Group Ltd. in Zurich. “The
government and the SNB want to tell banks to be more restrictive
or we’ll tighten the reins further.”  Governments from Singapore to Dubai are seeking measures to
cool overheated property markets after central bankers lowered
interest rates to stimulate their economies. While Swiss policy
makers in July toughened rules on mortgage lending to avoid a
repeat of a housing collapse that crippled the economy in the
early 1990s, the SNB requested the buffer after “imbalances
intensified further” in the second half.  The measure will be imposed on all Swiss banks as well as
subsidiaries of foreign banks operating in the country. Lenders
will have to add about 3 billion francs ($3.27 billion) to
comply with the new rules, which will be enforced starting Sept.
30, according to the government. Policy makers will “continue
to closely monitor developments” and “regularly reassess the
need to adjust the level,” the SNB said.  Prices Surging  Property prices have surged in Switzerland as investors
funnel money into one of Europe’s most stable economies amid the
sovereign debt crisis and record-low interest rates. The SNB has
kept borrowing costs at zero after introducing a franc ceiling
of 1.20 versus the euro in September 2011 to stop investors from
piling into a currency perceived as a haven.  The buffer level of 1 percent “reflects the fact that the
current imbalances are still smaller than those immediately
prior to the onset of the real estate and banking crisis at the
end of the 1980s,” the SNB said yesterday.  Even at its current level, the buffer will probably make
mortgages more costly and require higher down-payments, said
Alexander Koch de Gooreynd, an associate at broker Knight Frank
LLP responsible for Switzerland. The size of loans may fall to
65 percent to 70 percent of a home’s value from the current
level of as much as 80 percent.  ‘Decline Seen’  “It will have an effect on the market below 5 million
francs,” he said by telephone. “Home prices will probably
decline. Somewhere between two and five percent is realistic
over 2013 because there’s not as many international people.”  Swiss property prices have been pushed higher by the influx
of about 50,000 people a year, attracted by the country’s low
 unemployment , higher incomes and economic growth.  “The measures on their own are unlikely to significantly
slow down mortgage lending growth,” Fitch Ratings analysts
 Christian Kuendig  and Cynthia Chan said in a note today.
“Mortgage interest rates will still be significantly lower than
in the early 1990s, the peak of the last real estate cycle, even
if the higher cost of capital were to be fully passed on to
customers.”  As much as 25 percent of the country’s total mortgage
volume will be affected by the buffer, Swiss Finance Minister
 Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf  said at a briefing in Bern yesterday.
“We want to counter preemptively the possibly difficult
consequences of a bubble,” she said. “If the situation
stabilizes, we can abolish it the same way we introduced it.”  UAE, Singapore  The Swiss are following other governments taking steps to
cool rising prices and avert property bubbles. The United Arab
Emirates central bank, which oversees seven emirates including
Dubai, decided in December to limit mortgages to foreigners to
50 percent of the property’s value.  Singapore last month increased the transaction tax for
homes by 5 percent to 7 percent after low interest rates pushed
prices to a record high in the fourth quarter. The government
will also tighten the loan-to-value limits for buyers seeking a
second mortgage.  Hong Kong monetary chief  Norman Chan  said this month that
more steps may be taken to cool the city’s real-estate market as
rising household debt adds to risks from property-price gains
over the past four years. The Hong Kong Monetary Authority has
already rolled out five measures after prices doubled since the
start of 2009, according to a weekly index compiled by Centaline
Property Agency Ltd.  ‘Risk Zone’  The average asking price for a single-family home in
Switzerland has advanced 26 percent since the end of 2006,
according to an index published by property consultant Wueest &
Partner AG. In Zurich, home to companies including UBS AG and
 Swiss Re AG , they’ve risen 36 percent in that period, while the
region around Lake Geneva reported a 55 percent increase.  The  UBS Swiss Real Estate Bubble Index  remained in the so-
called risk zone for a second quarter in the three months
through December, according to an indicator published on Feb. 4.
Zurich and Geneva along with Lausanne, in the country’s French-
speaking part, are the most at risk of a bubble, according to
UBS.  The government’s new rules won’t have much of an impact,
said  Bruno Birrer , chief operating officer at  Peach Property
Group AG , a luxury home developer in Zurich.  ‘Strong Market’  “The market is really strong,” he said in a telephone
interview. “From time to time, you’ll have somebody saying
there’s a bubble coming but, as always, we have a strong and
solid economy here, so we’re not afraid about that.”  The direct influence of the buffer on mortgage rates may be
low, with costs increasing less than 0.1 percent, said UBS
economists  Matthias Holzhey  and  Fabio Trussardi . What’s more
important is that the measure “sends a signal,” they said.
“Risk sensitivity, and as a result, the risk premiums are
likely to increase.”  “This is a first step, giving the SNB the opportunity to
expand the buffer should it consider it necessary,” said
 Alexander Koch , an economist at UniCredit in Munich.  UBS and  Credit Suisse  Group AG, Switzerland’s two largest
banks, had combined outstanding mortgages of 252.2 billion
francs at the end of November, up 4.8 percent from the end of
2011, according to SNB data, while cantonal banks, which are
largely owned by the regions, had 288.6 billion francs in
mortgages, up 4.7 percent. Banks including cooperative-based
Raiffeisen lenders, foreign and regional banks, had mortgage
claims totaling 834.1 billion francs, up 4.3 percent.  ‘Core Business’  For larger banks such as Credit Suisse and UBS, “the
impact will be so small that the banks can manage it,” said
 Dirk Becker , a Frankfurt-based analyst at Kepler Capital
Markets. “For smaller banks, the situation is a bit more
delicate because Swiss mortgages are their core business.”  The SNB said in June that the mortgage market poses a
significant risk to lenders. The government toughened lending
rules the following month, forcing borrowers to supply at least
10 percent of the value of the property from their own funds
without using pension assets and requiring mortgages to be paid
down to two-thirds of the lending value within 20 years.  The SNB has “limited scope” for an increase in the
benchmark interest rate at the moment as it protects the economy
and defends the franc, it said yesterday in a statement. The
Zurich-based central bank will hold its next quarterly
assessment of monetary policy on March 14.  Michael Landolt, an economist for the Swiss homeowners
association, said mortgage rates probably will increase because
of the measures, though they’ll still be historically cheap.  “It’s very Swiss that everyone has to pay for the
shortcomings of a few,” he said. “Now all mortgage borrowers
are paying for the fact that banks are undercapitalized. The
regulators could have picked the banks that are lending too
aggressively and applied the rules only to them.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simone Meier in London at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net ;
Zoe Schneeweiss in Zurich at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  