-- U.K. Stocks Rise to 2008 High as Tullow Oil Advances
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2013-02-13T17:16:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/u-k-stocks-erase-decline-as-tullow-oil-gains-on-earnings.html
U.K. stocks  climbed for a fourth
day, sending the FTSE 100 Index to the highest level in more
than 4 1/2 years, as companies from Tullow Oil Plc to Reckitt
Benckiser Group Plc rallied after reporting earnings.  Tullow Oil surged the most in 17 months after the oil and
gas company also announced better-than-estimated drilling
results at a well in Kenya. Reckitt Benckiser rose to its
highest price since at least 1988 as the maker of Nurofen
painkillers forecast sales will increase. AstraZeneca Plc, BP
Plc and Royal Dutch Shell Plc traded without the right to their
latest dividends, limiting gains on benchmark gauges.  The  FTSE 100  added 20.73 points, or 0.3 percent, to
6,359.11 at the close in London, the highest level since May
2008. The index has risen 7.8 percent this year as U.S.
lawmakers struck a budget deal averting spending cuts and tax
increases that had threatened to send the world’s largest
economy into a recession. The FTSE All-Share Index advanced 0.4
percent today and Ireland’s ISEQ Index jumped 1.6 percent.  “The drivers for the market to head higher remain in
place,”  Keith Bowman , an equity analyst at Hargreaves Lansdown
Plc in London, said in a telephone interview. “Central-bank
liquidity is still extremely helpful and the corporate results
season has been broadly positive in tone.”  U.K. stocks climbed even as lost  dividend rights  at
AstraZeneca, BP and Shell wiped 17.3 points off the FTSE 100,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Inflation Outlook  Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  said Britain faces a
further bout of inflation and a muted economic recovery. He
pledged that officials will support growth where they can.  “Inflation is likely to rise further in the near term and
may remain above the 2 percent target for the next two years,”
King said as he presented the central bank’s Inflation Report in
London today. “The prospect of a further prolonged period of
above-target inflation must therefore be considered alongside
the weakness of the real economy.”  U.S. President Barack Obama gave his first State of the
Union address since re-election late yesterday in Washington,
pledging to pursue a trade agreement with the European Union to
expand the world’s largest economic relationship. Trade and
investment between the U.S. and the 27 nations that make up the
EU had a value of $4.5 trillion in 2011.  The volume of shares changing hands on FTSE 100 companies
was 15 percent greater than the average of the last 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Tullow Oil  Tullow Oil rallied 6.8 percent to 1,260 pence, the biggest
jump since September 2011, as the oil explorer reported a 4
percent increase in  full-year pretax profit  to $1.1 billion and
forecast production of 86,000 barrels to 92,000 barrels a day
this year.  The company, which will drill as many as 11 wells in Kenya
this year, said tests on its Twiga South well flowed oil at
2,351 barrels a day, showing the country’s first commercial flow
rates. Bank of America Corp. said analysts had predicted 1,500
barrels a day.  Reckitt Benckiser  rose 1.3 percent to 4,419 pence as the
company reported that like-for-like sales climbed 6 percent in
the fourth quarter, their strongest increase since 2009. The
company also said revenue will climb as much as 6 percent at
constant exchange rates, excluding the pharmaceuticals unit and
the business’s withdrawal from private-label products.  Petrofac Ltd.  increased 2 percent to 1,655 pence. UBS AG
raised its recommendation for the U.K. oil and gas engineer to
buy from neutral, describing the company’s portfolio of projects
as profitable and its order intake as strong.  Crest IPO  Crest Nicholson Holdings Ltd. surged 16 percent to 255
pence on the U.K. housebuilder’s first day of trading after its
initial public offering.  Vodafone Group Plc, which accounts for 5.3 percent of the
 FTSE 100  by weighting, fell 1.1 percent to 171.65 pence after a
person with knowledge of the matter said the company has
considered a bid for Kabel Deutschland Holding AG.  Vodafone  hasn’t yet contacted Germany’s largest cable
provider, said the person, who asked not to be identified
because the plan remains private.  In Ireland,  CRH Plc  rallied 4.3 percent to 16.46 euros as
Davy reiterated its outperform recommendation on the cement
maker, citing an improvement in the outlook for U.S. materials
and reconstruction efforts from Hurricane Sandy. CRH generates
about 45 percent of revenue in the Americas, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  A gauge of construction shares recorded the biggest gain
among 19 industry groups in the Stoxx 600 today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  