-- U.K. Chefs Give Verdict on Horse, Don’t Plan to Serve It
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2013-02-13T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/u-k-chefs-give-verdict-on-horse-don-t-plan-to-serve-it.html
The discovery of horse meat in U.K.
packaged meals raises legal, ethical and health concerns.  How about the question of flavor?  I asked London-based chefs about their experiences of
eating horse meat, which were far removed from the current
scandal of horse flesh being illicitly substituted for beef.
(That meat is being tested for contamination.)  In any event, there are animal-welfare objections to the
transportation and slaughter of horses, which are sometimes
hacked to death.  Compassion in World Farming  urges people to
sign a petition to end live exports to continental Europe. I’ve
no plans to tuck into Black Beauty anytime soon.  Here’s what the chefs had to say:  Eric Chavot (Brasserie Chavot, opening in March): “I ate it
mainly during the ’60s and ’70s (in France) when I was growing
up. It’s very high in protein, so it’s good for children. We
always had ’steak de cheval’ every Thursday. But I was eating it
one evening and my brother made the sound of a horse -- neigh --
and that put me off. I didn’t really like it after that. Do I
think the British would choose to eat it if properly presented?
No I don’t. Let me put it this way: Would you?”  Anthony Demetre  (Wild Honey): “I can understand people
being unhappy about being misled, but I can’t understand the
furore about horse meat itself. Having a French wife, especially
a Parisian, one gets accustomed to eating it. I remember going
to my wife’s grandmother for a Sunday roast: It was the best bit
of meat I had tasted for a long time. They didn’t tell me it was
horse because they thought for an Englishman it would be taboo.
It’s not too dissimilar to beef and it’s very lean. If there
weren’t such a taboo, I wouldn’t hesitate to serve it.”  Chris Galvin (Galvin Bistrot de Luxe): “I tried it a long
time ago in Paris, in a restaurant specializing in horse. It’s
got its own distinct flavor, a bit deeper than beef. It was very
tasty. I’d definitely eat horse again. It’s very good for you,
but the main thing is to know that you are eating horse. This is
a good wake-up call for people to know what they are eating.”  Henry Harris (Racine): “I cooked it on  Newsnight  on TV last
month and it was better than the beef they provided. Good horse
meat is quite delicious. It’s sweet, it’s very lean and -- in
texture and absence of fat -- it’s closer to venison than beef.
But it does have a density and sweetness that is unique. It
makes a sensational tartare. If there was demand for it and it
came from a good source, with decent provenance, I’d consider
serving it, but I’ve no plans to. Also, someone sent me a video
of horse-slaughtering and it was distressing.”  Mark Hix  (Hix): “I like it. When I was in Alba last year, I
was served horse cheeks braised in Barolo or Barbaresco and it
was delicious. It was served with an apple puree. It’s a bit
like beef. I don’t think our punters would go for it. It’s part
of the culture in countries like France and Spain. In England,
we tend to bet on horses rather than cook them.”  Pierre Koffmann  (Koffmann’s): “If you don’t know you’re
eating horse, you think you are eating beef. But it’s sweeter
and leaner and very tender. It’s very nice. In France, you don’t
find it so much in restaurants. Horse fat is the best fat to
cook chips because the temperature of the fat can go higher than
190 degrees. If you served horse in London, some people would
eat it but you would have protesters in front of the restaurant
so that you would not achieve what you wanted to achieve.”  Bruno Loubet (Bistrot Bruno Loubet): “I ate it as a child
in France when it was quite common. My mother used to get it
from the local butcher who specialized in horse meat. People
believed it helped to make kids stronger and I liked it very
much. My mother sauteed it in a pan as a giant burger with
garlic and parsley, then served it with a salad and sauteed
potatoes. I doubt the U.K. market would accept horse meat
because horses are considered as pets. If there was a guarantee
on the packaging, with sourcing and regulation and quality
control, it might eventually be accepted.”  Simon Rogan  (Roganic): “It’s all right. I ate it when I was
much younger and we used to visit relatives in France. Being
young, I used to turn my nose up at it. Now I am a bit older, I
am more willing to embrace new foods. We are obviously not as
adventurous about food as our continental cousins. If history
had been a little bit different, the British might have eaten
horse: now it’s too late.”  Michel Roux Jr . (Le Gavroche): “Would I serve horse meat?
Neigh, neigh. I hope some good comes out of this: That labeling
is correct and there’s traceability and that the people who are
to blame are held accountable. I have tried horse meat and while
I don’t particularly enjoy the flavor, I’m not against it. It’s
quite a sweet meat, slightly gamey, depending on the cut. But we
should be looking at horse as an alternative to other meats, and
who knows? The British were terribly squeamish about snails
until quite recently.”  ( Richard Vines  is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  on the art market,
 Jorg von Uthmann  on Paris culture and  Ryan Sutton  on New York
dining.  To contact the writer on the story:
 Richard Vines  in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  