-- U.S. DOE Weekly Petroleum Status Report for Feb. 8 (Text)
-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 2013-02-13T15:35:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/u-s-doe-weekly-petroleum-status-report-for-feb-8-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
Petroleum Status Report from the U.S. Department of Energy:  U.S. crude oil refinery inputs averaged over 14.3 million
barrels per day during the week ending February 8, 2013, 121
thousand barrels per day below the previous week’s average.
Refineries operated at 83.8 percent of their operable capacity
last week. Gasoline production increased last week, averaging
8.9 million barrels per day. Distillate fuel production
decreased last week, averaging just under 4.4 million barrels
per day.  U.S. crude oil imports averaged over 7.5 million barrels per day
last week, down by 56 thousand barrels per day from the previous
week. Over the last four weeks, crude oil imports have averaged
over 7.7 million barrels per day, 1.0 million barrels per day
below the same four-week period last year. Total motor gasoline
imports (including both finished gasoline and gasoline blending
components) last week averaged 611 thousand barrels per day.
Distillate fuel imports averaged 143 thousand barrels per day
last week.  U.S. commercial crude oil inventories (excluding those in the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve) increased by 0.6 million barrels
from the previous week. At 372.2 million barrels, U.S. crude oil
inventories are well above the upper limit of the average range
for this time of year. Total motor gasoline inventories
decreased by 0.8 million barrels last week but remained in the
upper limit of the average range. Finished gasoline inventories
increased while blending components inventories decreased last
week. Distillate fuel inventories decreased by 3.7 million
barrels last week and are below the lower limit of the average
range for this time of year. Propane/propylene inventories
decreased by 2.5 million barrels last week, but remained well
above the upper limit of the average range. Total commercial
petroleum inventories decreased by 7.4 million barrels last
week.  Total products supplied over the last four-week period have
averaged just over 18.6 million barrels per day, up by 1.6
percent from the same period last year. Over the last four
weeks, motor gasoline product supplied has averaged over 8.4
million barrels per day, up by 4.4 percent from the same period
last year. Distillate fuel product supplied has averaged 3.7
million barrels per day over the last four weeks, down by 1.4
percent from the same period last year. Jet fuel product
supplied is 2.2 percent higher over the last four weeks compared
to the same four-week period last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephen Rose  in Washington at 
 srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  