-- U.S Import Prices Rose 0.6% in January on Higher Fuel Costs
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i   a n d   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-02-13T13:42:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/u-s-import-prices-climbed-0-6-in-january-on-higher-fuel-costs.html
Prices of goods imported into the
U.S. rose in January for the first time in three months, led by
more expensive fuel and building materials.  The 0.6 percent gain in the  import-price index  followed a
revised 0.5 percent decline in December that was larger than
initially estimated, Labor Department figures showed today in
Washington. Economists projected a 0.8 percent advance in
January, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey.
Prices excluding fuel advanced 0.2 percent.  Demand for commodities including crude oil is starting to
stir amid signs the world economy is stabilizing. The cost of
imports was down 1.3 percent from January 2012, showing limited
price pressures will allow Federal Reserve officials to maintain
record monetary policy stimulus.  “The global economy has started to turn a corner, which
will put some pressure on oil prices,”  Jacob Oubina , senior
economist at RBC Capital Markets LLC in New York, said before
the report. “It would be a risk if we maintained these price
pressures, but doing so would be pretty difficult in this still
lackluster demand environment.”  Projections  for import prices ranged from increases of 0.2
percent to 1.2 percent, according to the Bloomberg survey of 42
economists. The January gain was the most since September.  Figures from the Commerce Department showed  retail sales 
rose in January for a third consecutive month as labor market
progress helped Americans overcome an increase in the payroll
tax. The 0.1 percent advance followed a 0.5 percent increase in
December.  Stock Futures  Stock-index futures held earlier gains after the reports.
The contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index maturing in
March rose 0.2 percent to 1,519 at 8:34 a.m. in New York.  The drop in the 12 months to January compared with a 1.9
percent year-over-year decrease in December.  The cost of imported fuel climbed 2.4 percent last month
from December and was down 5.2 percent from a year earlier.
Crude oil has hovered near the highest price since March 2012.
Brent oil for March delivery has increased about 30 percent
through yesterday’s close from a low of $91.08 on June 21.  Prices of imported building materials jumped 2.9 percent
after a 1.5 percent gain a month earlier and reflecting
increased demand from U.S. homebuilders.  Imported food was 0.5 percent more expensive last month,
today’s report showed.  Imported Autos  Prices for imported automobiles climbed 0.1 percent and
were up 1.5 percent from January 2012.  Consumer goods excluding vehicles also showed a 0.1 percent
price gain. They were up 0.2 percent over the past 12 months.  Global economic growth that’s now starting to regain its
footing may not yet lead to a sustained acceleration in raw
materials costs. China’s expansion quickened for the first time
in two years in the fourth quarter. The euro-area economy shrank
less rapidly in the third quarter.  “We anticipate a more moderate year of commodity
inflation,”  Muhtar Kent , Coca-Cola Co.’s president and chief
executive officer, said in a Feb. 12 earnings call with
investors. Kent said for the world’s largest soft drink maker’s
“big four” commodities, which include sweeteners, metals,
juices and plastic components, incremental costs would total
about $100 million this year. Those costs totaled around $225
million for 2012, Kent said.  Fed Officials  Fed officials in the U.S. have indicated they see inflation
remaining moderate in the near future, staying below their 2
percent target.  “Inflation has been running somewhat below the Committee’s
longer-run objective, apart from temporary variations that
largely reflect fluctuations in energy prices. Longer-term
inflation expectations have remained stable,” the Federal Open
Market Committee said in a Jan. 30 statement.  The cost of imported goods from China decreased 0.1 percent
and down 1 percent in the past 12 months.  Imported goods from Japan fell 0.2 percent, the biggest
drop since September 2008, while the cost of goods from the
European Union jumped 1.1 percent, the most since March 2011.
Goods from Mexico increased 0.6 percent.  U.S. export prices increased 0.3 percent in January,
today’s report also showed, after falling 0.1 percent the
previous month. Prices of farm exports slumped 1.3 percent and
those of non-farm goods increased 0.5 percent.  The import-price index is the first of three monthly price
gauges from the Labor Department. The producer-price index is
due Feb. 20, and the consumer-price index is scheduled the
following day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Kowalski  in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeanna Smialek  in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  