-- Audit Watchdog Non-Taxpayer Budget Cut Under U.S. Sequester
-- B y   D a v e   M i c h a e l s
-- 2013-02-13T19:48:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/u-s-audit-watchdog-funded-by-company-fees-faces-sequester-cuts.html
The U.S. nonprofit entity that
oversees corporate audits and gets no public funding may have to
implement automatic spending cuts next month if Congress doesn’t
delay the so-called sequester.  The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board said it would
review how to carry out the cuts with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, which unanimously approved the PCAOB’s $245
million budget today. The automatic spending cuts, known as the
sequester and mandated by the 2011 Budget Control Act, are
scheduled to take effect next month unless delayed by lawmakers.  The PCAOB could be required to cut spending by as much as
7.6 percent, or $18 million, according to a report the White
House published in September. PCAOB Chairman  James R. Doty  said
the PCAOB would try to appeal the White House’s decision that it
is subject to the sequester.  “We obviously do not agree that the statutes make us
subject to the Deficit Reduction Act,” Doty told reporters
today after the SEC’s meeting. “We are not part of the federal
government and our funds are not part of general revenue.”  SEC Chairman  Elisse Walter  said that while the PCAOB’s 2013
budget does not reflect the cuts, the SEC would help determine
later how to deal with them.  “I would expect that in the event that sequestration
occurs and the PCAOB’s 2013 budget is indeed affected, the PCAOB
will work with the commission and commission staff as
appropriate regarding implementation with sequestration,”
Walter said.  Sarbanes-Oxley Act  The PCAOB, established by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002,
oversees audits of publicly traded corporations and brokerage
firms. It’s supported by annual fees charged to public companies
and broker-dealers registered with the SEC.  Another SEC-supervised entity, the Financial Accounting
Standards Board, also is subject to the automatic cuts. The FASB
collected $29.8 million in fees last year from public issuers of
debt and equity securities.  “We have been informed by the Office of Management and
Budget that the accounting support fees received by the
Financial Accounting Standards Board are subject to
sequestration,” Robert W. Stewart, FASB’s vice president for
communications, wrote in an e-mail. “We are currently in
discussions with the OMB as to how that decision may impact the
FASB.”  No Furloughs  Doty said any PCAOB cuts would be carried out without
firing or furloughing employees. He said the total cut might be
less than the $18 million identified by the White House in
September.  “We will manage in the event of sequestration in a way
that does not cut the muscle and destroy the ability of the
PCAOB to accomplish its mission,” he said.  The board’s 2013 budget includes $234 million in industry
assessments. Its total budget, $245 million, represents an 8
percent increase over 2012. The PCAOB says the increase is
needed to pay for new responsibilities created by the Dodd-Frank
financial overhaul law, including overseeing audits of brokerage
firms.  This year, the PCAOB plans to inspect 100 auditors of
brokerage firms, an increase over the 40 inspected last year,
Doty said.  The PCAOB has faced criticism from some House Republicans
that its auditing standards aren’t adequately informed by cost-
benefit analysis. Two Republican SEC commissioners,  Daniel M. Gallagher  and  Troy A. Paredes , pressed Doty about how the PCAOB
plans to make greater use of economic analysis.  Cost-Benefit Analysis  The auditor watchdog is developing a framework for
incorporating economic analysis into its work, which will soon
be available for its board to review, Doty said. The PCAOB plans
to hire two economists this year to help ensure new standards
are cost-effective.  “The framework starts with broad and ambitious and
important principles and works through the details,” Doty said.  Under questioning by Walter, Doty said China could become a
higher priority for the PCAOB’s enforcement program. In
December, the SEC sued the China-based affiliates of the Big
Four accounting firms over their refusal to share work
documents. The SEC says access to auditor work papers is
essential for testing the quality of public-company audits.  Doty said the affiliates would have to turn over documents
needed for SEC and PCAOB enforcement investigations before
further progress could be made on an agreement providing for
joint inspections of Chinese and U.S. accounting firms.  If the enforcement matters aren’t resolved, “I would think
that enforcement against Chinese firms for non-cooperation would
be an increasing priority for our enforcement program,” Doty
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  