-- TUI Has Worst Start in 4 Years as Joussen Takes Over as Chief
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-02-13T07:22:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/tui-has-worst-start-in-4-years-as-joussen-takes-over-as-chief.html
TUI AG , the owner of Europe’s
largest travel company, reported its biggest first-quarter loss
in four years as the company gets a new chief executive officer
for the first time in almost two decades.  The net  loss  widened by 56 percent to 137 million euros
($184 million) in the three months through December, as a
positive tax effect from the previous year wasn’t repeated and
as an accounting change at TUI Travel Plc took effect.  Shareholders are eager to learn how  Friedrich Joussen , 49,
the former Germany head of Vodafone Group Plc, will change TUI’s
strategy when he takes over as CEO after the company’s annual
shareholder meeting in Hanover, Germany today. The shares
declined 34 percent under  Michael Frenzel , 65, who headed TUI
and Preussag, as the company used to be called, for 19 years.
Germany’s MDAX benchmark index for medium-sized companies rose
more than five-fold in that period.  TUI confirmed its outlook for fiscal 2013 today, saying it
expect sales to rise “moderately” while operating profit will
remain at last years’ level. Net income before minority
interests will be positive, TUI said.  First-quarter sales rose 1.4 percent to 3.5 billion euros
on higher revenue at the cruise ship unit and from hotel
operations.  TUI on Jan. 23 said it retreated from a plan to combine
with TUI Travel, in which it owns a majority stake, succumbing
to investor pressure to drop a share-based deal only a week
after saying the two companies were in preliminary talks. The
company is barred by U.K. takeover rules to make a fresh
approach for the U.K. company for six months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  