-- Hungary Audit Report Escalates Clash With Central Bank
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2013-02-13T16:33:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/hungary-audit-report-escalates-clash-with-central-bank.html
Hungary’s  State Audit Office  said
the central bank violated data-storage rules, escalating a clash
with the  Magyar Nemzeti Bank , which said the report may
undermine the independent agency’s credibility.  The MNB’s data-storage practice has failed to meet
regulations since 2009 and the central bank illegally shared
data with the  International Monetary Fund , the Budapest-based
audit office said in an e-mailed  report  today. The central bank
rejected the findings in a  statement  on its website.  The report escalated a clash between the two institutions
after the central bank yesterday said the Audit Office
interfered with the MNB’s independence by making recommendations
on the management of foreign-currency reserves. The reports
precede Premier  Viktor Orban ’s pick to replace MNB chief  Andras Simor , whose six-year term ends March 3.  Orban’s ruling Fidesz party wants to summon Simor to a
parliamentary committee hearing to discuss the report, MTI state
news service reported today, citing Fidesz lawmaker Imre Puskas.
The party earlier pushed for Simor’s removal before the end of
his mandate.  The Audit Office, which like the central bank is an
independent state institution, is headed by  Laszlo Domokos , a
former Fidesz lawmaker nominated by Orban in 2010.  Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy , who spearheaded the
government’s self-described unorthodox policies including
nationalizing privately-managed pension fund assets and levying
extraordinary industry taxes to close budget gaps, is the front-
runner to succeed Simor, Nomura Holdings Plc and  Standard Bank 
Group Ltd. said in reports yesterday after meeting with
officials in Budapest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  