-- Hungary to Decide on EU Carbon-Glut Fix Feb. 20, Official Says
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-02-13T10:10:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/hungary-to-decide-on-eu-carbon-glut-fix-feb-20-official-says.html
Hungary plans to decide next week
whether to back the European Union proposal to curb oversupply
of carbon permits and help prices in the world’s biggest
emissions market rebound, a government official said.  The Hungarian government is going to adopt a position at a
regular meeting on Feb. 20 on the European Commission’s plan to
delay auctions of some carbon permits, according to the
official, who asked not to be identified, citing policy. The
central European country is now considering the advantages and
drawbacks of the draft EU measure, the official said.  Hungary is among seven countries that hold the key to the
fate of the rescue plan for the European emissions trading
system, or the ETS, three EU officials with knowledge of the
matter said last month. At stake is the fate of the 54 billion-
euro ($72.8 billion) program after an excess of allowances
caused by an economic crisis drove prices down as much as 91
percent from a record in April 2006.  EU permits for delivery in December pared earlier gains and
were 0.7 percent up at 4.61 euros a metric ton on the ICE
Futures Europe Exchange as of 9:05 a.m. in London. The contract
gained 10 percent in the past five days after an EU lawmaker
said the glut fix plan was increasingly likely to win majority
support from the European Parliament’s environment committee.  The commission’s strategy to tackle the oversupply is to
delay 900 million permits from 2013-2015 and return them to the
market in 2019-2020. The proposal has divided governments,
industry organizations and members of the Parliament.  Second Step  The EU assembly’s environment panel is due to vote on Feb.
19 on the first element of the commission’s proposal: a change
to the  emissions law  to enable postponing auctions of some
permits. The amendment will also need approval from the whole
Parliament and national governments in the next stages of the
legislative process.  In the second step, should the law change get the green
light from the Parliament in the plenary vote tentatively
scheduled for April, member states would vote on a separate
regulation to set out the details of auction delays.  To be enacted, the commission’s so-called backloading
proposal needs a qualified majority of 255 out of 345 votes from
governments in a system with votes weighted by each country’s
size. A blocking minority requires 91 votes. Hungary has 12
votes.  While the backloading proposal has more prospective
supporters than opponents among the EU’s 27 governments, it
still needs support from at least some of the seven undecided
nations to be approved, the EU officials said. The nations also
include Germany, Portugal, Malta, Greece, Cyprus and the Czech
Republic, according to the officials. Poland has already
declared it will oppose the EU plan.  The commission, the EU’s regulatory arm, warned member
states last month that carbon prices are likely to decline
further without action to curb oversupply, according to an EU
document obtained by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  