-- Hungary Falls Deeper Into Recession as Inflation Slows
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2013-02-14T11:20:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/hungary-probably-fell-deeper-into-recession-as-inflation-eased.html
Hungary slipped deeper into
recession in the fourth quarter while the fading effects of tax
increases slowed inflation, boosting policy makers’ case to
continue cutting the European Union’s highest interest rate.  Gross domestic product  shrank  2.7 percent in October-
December from a year ago, the deepest slump in three years, the
statistics office in Budapest said today based on preliminary
data. The median estimate of 18 economists in a Bloomberg survey
was for a 1.9 percent drop. The economy shrank 0.9 percent from
July-September, a fourth consecutive quarterly decline. The
 inflation rate  fell to 3.7 percent in January, the lowest since
September 2011, from 5 percent in December.  Hungary’s second recession in four years and slowing
inflation give the central bank room to continue cutting
interest rates after reducing borrowing costs by 1.5 percentage
points in the last six months. A new central bank chief, to be
appointed by Premier  Viktor Orban  by March 2, may also push for
the use of more unconventional monetary measures before
parliamentary elections in the second quarter of next year.  Today’s data put “Hungary at the back of regional growth
pack alongside Slovenia, which is in the middle of a banking
crisis,”  Tim Ash , a London-based analyst for  Standard Bank 
Group Ltd., said in an e-mail. “This increases the chances that
the Orban government will further reach for unorthodox policy
levers as they head into election season.”  The forint dropped 0.6 percent against the euro, the most
in a week, and traded at 291.71 at 9:19 a.m. in Budapest.  Conflicting Outlooks  The government, which expects 2013 will be a “turning
point” for the economy, will wait until first-quarter data is
published to determine whether changes are necessary to this
year’s budget or to the Cabinet’s forecasts, minister for aid
talks Mihaly Varga said in an Inforadio interview today.  While the government said Jan. 25 that the economy may grow
more than the forecast 0.9 percent this year as car production
and agriculture output rise, the International Monetary Fund on
Feb. 11 said it may stagnate in 2013. Hungary needs to overhaul
its economic policy to boost growth, said Iryna Ivaschenko, the
IMF representative to Budapest.  Government Policy  The government levied extraordinary taxes on banking,
energy, retail and telecommunications companies, nationalized
privately managed pension fund assets and curtailed the power of
courts, damaging investments and investor confidence.
Exacerbating the slump was a drought that hit agriculture
output, while the euro region’s debt crisis weakened exports and
western banks withdrew funding last year. The economy contracted
1.7 percent in 2012.  Outgoing central bank President  Andras Simor  has been
outvoted along with his two deputies on rate cuts by non-
executive members who want to spur an economy battling its
second recession in four years and who forecast meeting policy
makers’ 3 percent inflation target in the medium-term. The bank
on Jan. 29 lowered the two-week deposit rate by a quarter-point
for a sixth month to 5.5 percent, the lowest since 2010.  Policy makers will lower the rate to 5.25 percent at a Feb.
26 meeting, matching a record low level last seen in 2010,
according a Bloomberg poll of 18 economists.  Simor’s Successor  The drop in the January inflation index was primarily
caused by the high base from a year ago due to value-added tax
increases, statistician  Borbala Minary  told reporters today. The
effects of a 10 percent cut in household energy prices from Jan.
1 will show up in the inflation rate next month, she said.  Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy , who spearheaded the
government’s self-described unorthodox policies such as pension fund
nationalizations and industry tax increases, is the front-runner
to succeed Simor, Nomura Holdings Plc and Standard Bank Group
Ltd. said in reports on Feb. 12 after meeting with officials in
Budapest.  The central bank should pursue a “conservative” policy
course, avoid “surprises,” and “absolutely not” engage in
budget financing, Matolcsy said in an interview with the Wall
Street Journal on Jan. 30. The minister “essentially
backtracked” on comments made in December -- when he called for
the “brave” use of “unorthodox” monetary-policy tools -- in
an effort to endear himself to investors, Royal Bank of Scotland
Plc said on Feb. 1.  Hungary this week raised $3.25 billion in its first sale of
foreign bonds in 21 months, taking advantage of global liquidity
conditions to return to the debt market after Orban abandoned a
quest for International Monetary Fund support.  Orban is “likely to portray the market’s strong interest
in Hungarian debt as legitimizing his unorthodox social,
economic, and fiscal policies, in our opinion,” RBS’s London-
based strategist  Phoenix Kalen  said in an e-mailed note
yesterday. This makes Matolcsy’s appointment to the central bank
“more secure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  