-- Murata to Double Sensor Sales on Smartphones, Auto Demand
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 2013-02-13T07:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/murata-to-double-sensor-sales-in-three-years-on-phones-cars.html
Murata Manufacturing Co. , a Japanese
supplier to  Apple Inc . and Samsung Electronics Co., expects to
double sensor sales in four years because of demand for more
sophisticated cars and smartphones.  Sensor revenue will probably jump to about 75 billion yen
($806 million) in the year ending March 2016 from less than 40
billion yen last fiscal year, Vice President  Satoshi Sonoda  said
in an interview yesterday at the company’s headquarters in
Kyoto, Japan. The devices, which detect movement or pressure on
devices and then generate an electronic signal, support features
such as touchscreen mobile phones and in-car navigation systems.  Murata expects total electronic-component sales to
carmakers to rise about 10 percent a year, about double the pace
of growth in the global vehicle market, because of tighter
safety and environmental standards, Sonoda said. The company
announced three acquisitions this month to expand its lineup and
speed up development.  The component maker will buy out  Tokyo Denpa Co ., which
makes quartz-based products used in smartphones, in a stock
swap, the two companies said in a joint  statement  today. Murata
will also offer 300 yen a share to raise its stake in Toko Inc.,
a maker of power inductors, to 66.6 percent through a tender
offer, Murata said separately.  Ultrasonic Sensor  Founded  in 1944, Murata is also developing a new ultrasonic
sensor that can detect human movements such as waving without
users’ touching displays, Sonoda said. The company aims to start
mass production of the sensor by the end of the year at the
earliest, he said.  The company boosted its focus on automobiles last year by
buying VTI Technologies Oy, a Finnish maker of vehicle sensors,
for 20 billion yen, including debt.  The component maker  fell  1.8 percent to 5,880 yen on the
Osaka Securities Exchange. It has gained 16 percent  this year ,
compared with an 8.2 percent advance for the benchmark Nikkei
225 Stock Average.  Sensors account for about 7 percent of Murata’s total
revenue. The company’s other products include components for
power, sound and RFID.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Masatsugu Horie in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  