-- Uribe Says Colombia Needs Bigger Stimulus If Shocks Persist
-- B y   O s c a r   M e d i n a
-- 2013-02-13T19:39:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/uribe-says-colombia-needs-bigger-stimulus-if-shocks-persist.html
Colombia’s economy may need a larger
dose of monetary stimulus if the slowdown in growth caused by
weaker investment in housing and public works persists, central
bank Governor  Jose Dario Uribe  said.  At the same time, if the shocks that caused the slowdown
are short-lived, and the risk of a global economic meltdown
recedes, the country will require only “modest” stimulus,
Uribe said today in a presentation in Bogota.  “If, in the short term, these shocks reverse, in an
international environment where the chance of a collapse is
lower than it was some months ago, then the monetary stimulus
required should be modest,” Uribe said in a  presentation  in
Bogota today. “On the other hand, if these shocks show a longer
persistence, and affect price formation and inflation
expectations or spending decisions by households and businesses,
the necessary monetary stimulus should be stronger.”  The central bank has cut interest rates “gradually” in
recent months, as it monitored the risks of financial imbalances
from excess consumer debt and home prices, Uribe said. Policy
makers will cut their benchmark  interest rate  a quarter point
for the sixth time since June at its Feb. 22 policy meeting, to
3.75 percent, according to all five analysts in a Bloomberg
survey.  Rate Horizon  An attempt to get  inflation  back to the center of its
target too quickly would risk an “abrupt” change in the
monetary policy stance, which could cause excess and needless
volatility in output and employment, Uribe said.  Colombian economic  growth  slowed to 2.1 percent in the
third quarter, the slowest pace in the Andean region, as
construction activity slumped. The unexpected slowdown in growth
last year was “almost entirely” due to housing and public
works, Uribe said.  Finance Minister Mauricio Cardenas said today that Colombia
has room to continue cutting interest rates, after inflation
slowed to the lower end of its target range.  “If you ask whether there is space to cut interest rates,
my answer is categorically yes,” Cardenas told reporters in
Bogota.  Bonds, Peso  Annual inflation eased to 2 percent last month, from 2.44
percent in December, the slowest pace since April 2010. Colombia
has the lowest inflation rate after Chile among major Latin
American economies.  Colombia will sell $600 million in foreign bonds in the
remainder of 2013 after placing $1 billion of notes last month,
Finance Minister Mauricio Cardenas told reporters in Bogota. The
total is down 38 percent from the $2.6 billion the government
had said in December it would issue in overseas debt.  Uribe said the probability that the peso is “misaligned”
have risen from a few quarters ago. Some of Colombia’s exports
such as coal and coffee have fallen, which should lead to a
weaker equilibrium exchange rate, he said.  The peso has appreciated 26 percent since the start of
2009, the biggest gain among 25 emerging market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg after the Chilean peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  