-- Turkey Says Car Bomb at Syria Border Is Sabotage of Aid Effort
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u
-- 2013-02-13T10:17:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/turkey-says-car-bomb-at-syria-border-is-sabotage-of-aid-effort.html
A car-bomb explosion on the Turkish-
Syrian border crossing was aimed at “sabotaging” Turkey’s
supply of aid to its war-torn neighbor, Turkey’s Customs and
Trade Minister  Hayati Yazici  said.  Authorities beefed up security at the Cilvegozu border
crossing after the Feb. 11 car bomb, which killed 14 people and
injured more than two dozen, Yazici said today in televised
comments. The border may reopen for trade late today or early
tomorrow, he said.  Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  told reporters today
that more than one suspect has been detained, though some were
released.  Turkey has sided with the Syrian rebels fighting to oust
President  Bashar al-Assad , who has accused Turkey of providing
them with military support. Turkish Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu  denied Syrian accusations that Turkey was sending
weapons to rebels. Turkey shelters at least 250,000 refugees and
supplies aid for Syrians across the border.  United Nations Secretary-General  Ban Ki-moon  condemned the
attack and reiterated “his deep concern over the spillover of
the Syrian crisis into neighboring countries,” his office said
in a statement late yesterday.  The border crossing was shut down to international trade
last summer following a series of attacks on trucks on the
Syrian side. Shipment of aid supplies and local border trade
were allowed.  Narrow Escape  Syrian National Council leader  George Sabra , speaking in
Istanbul yesterday, said his motorcade narrowly escaped the
attack on its way to Syria, according to Turkey’s state-run
Anatolia news agency.  Three suspects were seen leaving a car several minutes
before the blast, according to security-camera footage broadcast
by state-run TRT television today.  Erdogan said today an announcement would be made after the
investigation is completed. He said yesterday that Turkey was
“vigilantly protecting its border with Syria.”  NATO missile-defense batteries have been deployed at
Turkey’s request as reinforcements against a possible attack
from Syria. In October, Turkish army units fired on targets in
Syria after an errant Syrian shell killed five Turks close to
the border. Several Turks, including children, have been wounded
by stray bullets from Syria since then.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  