-- uropean Stocks Advance for Second Day; Heineken Rallies
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-02-13T16:34:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/uropean-stocks-advance-for-second-day-heineken-rallies.html
European stocks  advanced for a
second day, erasing an earlier drop, as companies from Heineken
NV to PSA Peugeot Citroen reported better-than-estimated results
and euro-area industrial output rose more than forecast.  Heineken, the world’s third-largest brewer, rallied to a
record. Peugeot climbed 7 percent after France’s biggest
automaker reported a narrower operating loss than predicted.
Kabel Deutschland Holding AG jumped 9 percent as Vodafone Group
Plc was said to consider a bid for Germany’s largest cable
provider. Societe Generale SA slid 3.8 percent after posting a
wider-than-estimated loss.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  rose 0.4 percent to 288.18 at
4:30 p.m. in London, after dropping as much as 0.3 percent. The
gauge has gained 3.1 percent this year as U.S. lawmakers agreed
on a budget avoiding tax increases and spending cuts that had
threatened to push the world’s largest economy into a recession.  “Considering the fact that there haven’t been too many
earnings disappointments, we’re already thinking about what will
happen next quarter,” said  Pierre Mouton , a fund manager at
Notz Stucki & Cie., which oversees $6 billion in Geneva. “The
macro economy is improving. In Europe things are moving in the
right direction. We’re pretty positive on stocks. There is a
good possibility that companies can beat expectations next
quarter.”  Industrial Output  Euro-area industrial production increased more than
economists forecast in December. Factory production in the 17-
nation currency bloc rose 0.7 percent from November, when it
declined a revised 0.7 percent, the European Union’s statistics
office in Luxembourg said today. Economists had forecast a gain
of 0.2 percent, according to the median of 41 estimates in a
 Bloomberg News  survey.  About 54 percent of western European companies that have
reported earnings since Jan. 8 beat analysts’ projections for
profit, according to Bloomberg data. Fifty-one percent exceeded
revenue forecasts.  AstraZeneca Plc, BP Plc, Royal Dutch Shell Plc and Sage
Group Plc are the four companies on the Stoxx 600 trading
without the right to their latest  dividend  today, wiping 0.21
points from the measure, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The volume of shares changing hands in companies listed on
the Stoxx 600 was 13 percent lower than the average of the last
30 days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  