-- Venezuela’s Black-Market Bolivar Slides to Record: Caracas Mover
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2013-02-13T18:31:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/venezuela-s-black-market-bolivar-slides-to-record-caracas-mover.html
Venezuela’s bolivar plunged to a
record low in unregulated trading after last week’s devaluation
of the official rate failed to increase the supply of dollars.  The currency weakened 10 percent to 22.36 bolivars per
dollar today, according to  Lechugaverde.com , a website that
tracks the country’s currency in the black market.  The bolivar has declined 18 percent in unregulated trading
since President  Hugo Chavez , who is recovering from cancer
surgery in Cuba, ordered officials on Feb. 8 to devalue the
official exchange rate by 32 percent to 6.3 bolivars per dollar.
The bolivar’s slide in the unofficial market shows Venezuelan
importers fear further restrictions in dollar supply after the
government said it was scrapping a currency market administered
by the central bank known as Sitme, said  Russell Dallen , the
head trader at Caracas Capital Markets in Miami.  “It’s a reflection of not supplying enough dollars to the
market,” Dallen said in an e-mailed response to questions.
“Now there is no dollar outlet at all if you don’t qualify” to
receive foreign currency through government channels, he said.  Before Chavez tightened currency controls in 2010, an
unregulated market operated by bond brokerages supplied about
$100 million a day to importers seeking dollars. That was
reduced to $45 million after Chavez shuttered the market and
replace it with the Sitme. It fell to as low as $15 million a
day following the self-declared socialist’s re-election in
October, Dallen said.  Yields on Venezuela’s benchmark 9.25 percent dollar bonds
due in 2027 fell six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to
8.99 percent at 1:39 p.m. in Caracas. The price rose 0.49 cents
to 102.10 cents on the dollar.  Dollar ‘Addiction’  Finance Minister  Jorge Giordani  said today Venezuela needs
between $30 billion and $40 billion of foreign currency a year
to satisfy import needs. The government will prioritize dollars
for essential goods and described Venezuelans’ “addiction” to
the dollar as an “illness.”  “We all suffer from an insatiable appetite for the dollar,
from a type of dollarized nymphomania,” Giordani said in an
interview in the state-run newspaper Ciudad CCS.  Venezuelans turn to the black market when they can’t get
access to the so-called Cadivi system that sells dollars at the
official exchange rate.  The implied rate for the currency fell to 25 bolivars per
dollar yesterday based on trading at the border, Colombia’s
Finance Ministry said in a  message  on its Twitter account.  A weaker currency may further fuel the fastest official
inflation rate in the region. About 70 percent of products
consumed in Venezuela are imported or assembled from raw
materials shipped from abroad, according to the Consecomercio
trade chamber in Caracas.  Speculators are attacking Venezuela’s currency, Oil
Minister  Rafael Ramirez  told reporters in Caracas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  