-- Virus Found in 2001 Hospitalizes Kids at Same Rate as Flu
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2013-02-14T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/virus-found-in-2001-hospitalizes-kids-at-same-rate-as-flu.html
A respiratory virus that was unknown
to doctors until 2001, and has no treatment, causes the same
severity of illness in young children as the flu, according to
the largest study to estimate the infection’s U.S. prevalence.  The research, published in the  New England Journal of
Medicine , found that one of every 1,000 children under age 5 is
hospitalized each year because of human metapneumovirus, the
same rate as that for flu. MPV also occurs during the winter
like flu and shares the same symptoms, the study said.  The virus , which can lead to bronchitis and pneumonia, is
often misdiagnosed because there is no quick test to distinguish
it from flu and other respiratory viruses, said senior study
author John Williams. There’s no vaccine or drug against the
virus, and children often are given antibiotics or flu medicines
such as  Roche Holding AG ’s Tamiflu by mistake, he said.  “We’re still learning so much about disease,” said
 Williams , an associate professor of pediatrics at Vanderbilt
University in Nashville, Tennessee, in a Feb. 11 telephone
interview. “Here’s a virus that was unknown 10 years ago and
turns out to be one of the most common causes of severe
respiratory infection.”  MPV may be the reason that the flu vaccine appears to fail
in some people, Williams said. Those falling ill may in fact
have the virus, not the flu.  Research Findings  Researchers in the study used the U.S. Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention’s  New Vaccine Surveillance Network  to
identify kids under 5 with MPV in three U.S. counties from 2003
through 2009.  They found that 200 of 3,490 hospitalized children, or 6
percent; 222 of 3,257 children in outpatient clinics; and 224 of
3,001 children in the emergency rooms, or 7 percent, had MPV.  About 40 percent of the children hospitalized with the
virus had an underlying condition like premature birth or
asthma, the study found.  The researchers estimated that about 20,000 kids under 5
are hospitalized each year in the U.S. because of this virus,
which also causes 1 million outpatient clinic visits and 263,000
emergency room visits, the authors wrote. Those estimates are
similar to the flu rates for children under five in the U.S., he
said.  Knowing the frequency and severity of the disease adds
urgency to developing a vaccine against the virus as well as a
test that lets doctors and hospitals check for the virus,
Williams said. A vaccine against MPV is a minimum 5 to 10 years
away, he said. Williams’ lab is among a handful of research
centers working on a potential vaccine, he said.  Larger studies are needed in adults. Smaller studies have
suggested that MPV is as common as flu in adults over the age of
65, Williams said.  The virus was first identified in Dutch children with
respiratory illness in 2001 by researchers at Erasmus Medical
Center in Rotterdam. The  paper  published that year said that
studies suggested the virus had been circulating in humans for
at least 50 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  