-- Visa, MasterCard Win Dismissal of ATM Group’s Lawsuit
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-02-14T00:15:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/visa-mastercard-win-dismissal-of-atm-group-s-lawsuit.html
Visa Inc.  and  MasterCard Inc. , the
world’s biggest payment networks, won dismissal of a price-
fixing lawsuit brought by a group representing operators of
automated teller machines.  U.S. District Judge  Amy Berman Jackson  in Washington today
also threw out two related suits, ruling that all the plaintiffs
failed to show the companies conspired to restrict independent
ATM operators from charging varying prices for customers using
alternative networks such as STAR, Shazam Inc. or TransFund.  “Plaintiffs have not set forth sufficient facts to support
their claim that there was a horizontal conspiracy,” Jackson
wrote in her 39-page opinion. “Notably absent from each of the
complaints are facts showing the existence of an agreement, the
essential element of any conspiracy.”  The dismissal of the suit leaves ATM operators grappling
with the same alleged anti-competitive landscape that they
claimed prevents them from attracting customers by offering a
discount by making a transaction over less expensive networks.  The allegations in the lead case were made by the  National
ATM Council Inc ., a trade group based in Jacksonville, Florida,
and 13 operators of ATMs in nine states. The group sought to
represent the 350 non-bank ATM operators nationwide and asked
for triple damages.  The ATM operators claim that the “overwhelming” majority
of so-called PIN debit cards used for ATM transactions are
branded by Visa or MasterCard. Under a uniform agreement, the
operators can’t charge less for transactions over a network that
competes with Visa and MasterCard, according to the complaint.  Network Access  In order to accept one of these cards, an ATM operator must
have access to the Visa and MasterCard networks. Independent or
non-bank operators must be sponsored by a financial institution
that is a member of the Visa and MasterCard networks.  “What is missing is any discussion of what the ATM
operator’s costs are, and whether they change if the operator
uses a Visa or MasterCard network or an alternative network,”
Jackson said. “Those facts are fundamental, and without them,
there is no basis for the conclusions” that the access fees are
“inflated” or “supra-competitive.”  The judge said a “critical problem” in all three
complaints is that the plaintiffs do not make clear who pays
whom in these transactions.  ‘No Facts’  “There are no facts in the complaints that support a
conclusion that prices would be lower if the restrictions at
issue were lifted,” Jackson said.  James Issokson , a spokesman for MasterCard, based in
Purchase, New York, said in an e-mail that the company was
pleased with the ruling.  Will Valentine , a spokesman for Foster
City, California-based Visa, declined to comment.  A lawyer for the ATM group, Daniel Small of Cohen Millstein
Sellers & Toll Pllc in Washington, didn’t immediately respond to
a phone message.  The lead case is National ATM Council v. Visa Inc., 11-
cv-1803, U.S. District Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Schoenberg  in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 