-- Vivendi, Lagardere Battle Heats Up on $2.2 Billion Claim
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d   a n d   V i d y a   R o o t
-- 2013-02-13T18:18:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/vivendi-lagardere-battle-heats-up-with-eu1-6-bln-claim.html
Lagardere SCA  sued  Vivendi SA  in
Paris, demanding restitution of 1.6 billion euros ($2.2 billion)
to Canal+ France and intensifying the companies’ battle over
their jointly owned pay-television unit.  Vivendi contests Lagardere’s claim, filed before the Paris
commercial court, that a cash-management accord between Canal+
France and its parent Canal+ Group isn’t valid because it wasn’t
approved by the supervisory board. Lagardere owns 20 percent of
Canal+ France with Vivendi holding the rest. Vivendi owns 100
percent of Canal+ Group.  “This is an attempt by the Lagardere Group to destabilize
Vivendi and force it buy back the former’s stake in Canal+
France,” Vivendi said in the statement, denying Lagardere’s
claim and saying the cash accord didn’t need a nod from Canal+
France’s supervisory board.  The case may bring to a head years of disagreement between
the two Paris-based companies over Lagardere’s holding in
France’s biggest pay-TV company. Lagardere walked away from the
negotiations with Vivendi in 2011, saying it may dispose of the
stake through an initial public offering instead after failing
to agree on its valuation.  Ramzi Khiroun , a Lagardere spokesman in Paris, didn’t
return a call seeking comment. A Vivendi representative declined
to comment beyond its press release.  Media Focus  Vivendi was called to appear in front of the Paris court on
March 21, Lagardere  said .  Vivendi dropped 1.3 percent to close at 15.49 euros in
Paris. Lagardere fell 0.4 percent to 26.11 euros.  As Chairman  Jean-Rene Fourtou  seeks to refocus Vivendi on
media businesses, the company has put telecommunications assets
including Moroccan phone company  Maroc Telecom SA  and Brazilian
operator GVT on sale.  Broadcaster Canal+, alongside music business Universal
Music Group Inc, is likely to be at the heart of a new media-
focused strategy which Vivendi has said it could unveil by the
next general meeting, people familiar with the matter have said.  Lagardere already wrote down the value of its Canal+ stake
a year ago. Its 2011 annual report showed the stake had a value
of 1.2 billion euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net ;
Vidya Root in Paris at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  