-- Vodafone Is Said to Consider Bid for Kabel Deutschland
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2013-02-13T18:45:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/vodafone-is-said-to-consider-takeover-bid-for-kabel-deutschland.html
Vodafone Group Plc  is considering a
bid for  Kabel Deutschland Holding AG , Germany’s largest cable
provider, to expand in the country’s pay-TV and Internet market,
according to a person with knowledge of the matter.  Vodafone hasn’t yet contacted  Kabel Deutschland  about its
intention, said the person, who asked not to be identified
because the plan is private. Kabel Deutschland  closed  8.8
percent higher in Frankfurt for its steepest increase since the
company’s 2010 initial public offering.  Buying Kabel Deutschland, which is based in near Munich and
whose market value tops 6 billion euros ($8 billion), would be
another step for the world’s second-largest wireless carrier to
expand into fixed-line operations. The move would also
strengthen Vodafone against Deutsche Telekom AG and Europe’s
largest cable provider,  Liberty Global Inc. , which agreed to buy
Britain’s No. 2 cable operator  Virgin Media Inc . last week.  “It looks increasingly like we’re in a land-grab phase,”
said  Andrew Hogley , an analyst at Espirito Santo Investment Bank
in London. “Vodafone is thinking, we can’t afford to wait any
longer. Would it make strategic sense? Absolutely.”  Kabel Deutschland jumped as high as 72.75 euros today.
Vodafone, based in Newbury, England, fell 1.1 percent to close
at 171.65 pence in London.  Internal Talks  Vodafone has been discussing the Kabel Deutschland purchase
internally and with investment banking advisers, the person
said. Vodafone was planning to contact Kabel Deutschland
regarding a potential bid next week, the person said.  Matt Morgan, a Vodafone spokesman, and  Insa Calsow , a
spokeswoman for Kabel Deutschland, declined to comment.  The average premium paid for a cable or television company
in the last 12 months is about 33 percent, according to data
from completed deals collected by Bloomberg. That would value
Kabel Deutschland at 76.19 euros a share, using its average
share price in the past three months before today, or about 6.74
billion euros.  Last year, Vodafone  acquired  Cable & Wireless Worldwide to
boost its fixed-line system in the U.K. This week, Vodafone sold
$6 billion of bonds in the U.S., the largest dollar-denominated
issue in more than three weeks.  Vodafone made a bid for Kabel Deutschland two years ago,
people familiar with the matter said, though the company denied
it at the time.  Malone’s Expansion  Liberty Global, controlled by billionaire  John Malone ,
agreed to buy Virgin Media for $16 billion in cash and stock, a
24 percent premium, valuing the British cable company at $23.3
billion including debt. The acquisition is the largest media
transaction since 2007 and the price represented about 8.8 times
Virgin Media’s 2012 cash flow.  Portuguese mobile carrier  Sonaecom SGPS SA  agreed in
December to merge its Optimus unit with Zon Multimedia SGPS SA,
Portugal’s biggest cable-television provider. Other publicly
traded cable assets include the Netherlands-based  Ziggo NV ,
which jumped as much as 7.5 percent today.  Deals involving telecommunications and media companies
fetched more than $57 billion so far this year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Other Offers?  Kabel Deutschland provides television, Internet and phone
services to more than 8 million households on networks inherited
from former monopoly Deutsche Telekom. The move would intensify
the rivalry between Vodafone and its German peer in the fixed-
line market, while the two companies also battle for the top
spot among wireless providers in the country.  Vodafone has about 3.2 million fixed-line Internet
customers in Germany, some of which it could migrate to Kabel
Deutschland’s network. If the deal is approved by competition
watchdogs, Vodafone could also offer television, Internet and
fixed-line phone services to its mobile customers and avoid
paying rental fees on copper lines to Deutsche Telekom.  Telefonica Deutschland Holding AG  also offers fixed
broadband access in Germany.  A potential counterbid for Kabel Deutschland could come
from Liberty Global, which already owns Unitymedia KabelBW, the
second-largest cable provider in Germany, Hogley said.
Unitymedia KabelBW covers different regions in Germany than
Kabel Deutschland, potentially making regulatory approval easier
than for Vodafone, he added. Liberty Global representatives in
the U.S. didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment.  During Kabel Deutschland’s initial public offering in 2010,
the German company also attracted bids from BC Partners Ltd.,
CVC Capital Partners Ltd. and Bain Capital LLC, people familiar
with the matter said at the time.  Jens Schulte-Bockum, the head of Vodafone’s German unit,
and strategy chief  Warren Finegold  have prepared a business plan
for the acquisition which Chief Executive Officer  Vittorio Colao 
would need to approve, Manager Magazin reported today. Colao
favors a takeover, the German magazine said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  