-- Hwang-DBS Said to Ask Goldman Sachs for Advice on Sale
-- B y   E l f f i e   C h e w
-- 2013-02-13T09:05:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/hwang-dbs-said-to-ask-goldman-sachs-for-advice-on-sale.html
Hwang-DBS (Malaysia) Bhd. , the
investment bank backed by Southeast Asia’s largest lender, is
considering a sale after the death of its founder last year, one
person with knowledge of the matter said.  The company, which counts Singapore-based  DBS Group
Holdings Ltd.  and Malaysia’s Hwang Enterprises Sdn. as its
largest shareholders, has asked Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to find
potential buyers, the person said, asking not to be identified
as the information is private. Founder  Hwang Sing Lue  died on
Dec. 16, the company said last year.  Hwang-DBS rose  5 percent  to close at 3.98 ringgit in Kuala
Lumpur today, its highest level in more than a decade, giving
the Penang-based company a market value of about 1 billion
ringgit ($323 million). The sale is still at an early stage and
potential buyers include other Malaysian investment banks, the
person said.  The possible sale was reported on Feb. 9 by the Star
newspaper, which cited people it didn’t identify. Hwang-DBS
Managing Director  Alex Hwang Lip Teik  wasn’t immediately
available to comment when a call was made to his office in
Penang today.  Karen Ngui , a spokeswoman for DBS Group, declined
to comment on the sale.  Malaysian banks and brokerages have been merging in recent
years amid increased competition from overseas firms. Last year,
K&N Kenanga Holdings Bhd. acquired the investment banking and
broking unit of ECM Libra Financial Group Bhd. for 875 million
ringgit, while RHB Capital acquired OSK Holdings Bhd.’s
investment bank for 2 billion ringgit.  Hwang-DBS began operations in 1973 under the name Southern
Stock Brokers Sdn. and HwangDBS Investment Bank Bhd. was created
in December 1992, according to the company’s  website . Through
its units, DBS Group controls about 28 percent of the company,
while Hwang Enterprises owns another 27 percent, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elffie Chew in Kuala Lumpur at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  