-- Won Strengthens as Yen Rebounds Before G-20 Meeting; Bonds Fall
-- B y   S e y o o n   K i m   a n d   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2013-02-13T02:15:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/won-strengthens-as-yen-rebounds-before-g-20-meeting-bonds-fall.html
The won on speculation the Group of
20 nations will discuss the yen’s recent slump, easing concern
South Korea’s policy makers will take steps to weaken its
currency to protect exporters. Government bond declined.  Bank of Canada Governor Mark Carney said yesterday major
industrial nations will pressure other G-20 economies to refrain
from targeting exchange rates, adding that Japan’s currency
policy will be discussed this week. The Group of Seven finance
ministers and central bank governors pledged in a statement to
avoid devaluing their exchange rates in the pursuit of stronger
economic growth. The yen has weakened 7.7 percent this year, the
most in Asia.  “The won is stronger because of the yen’s rebound” before
the G-20 meeting, said Han Chi Hwan, a strategist in Seoul at
KDB Daewoo Securities Co. “There will be efforts to try to end
the yen’s weakness, but it will take several months to reverse
it.”  The won gained 0.4 percent to 1,086.35 per dollar as of
10:54 a.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
One-month implied volatility for the won, a measure of expected
moves in exchange rates used to price options, fell 30 basis
points, or 0.30 percentage point, to 7.65 percent.  The currency advanced after South Korea’s Vice Finance
Minister Shin Je Yoon said today the impact from North Korea’s
nuclear test on financial markets will be “limited,” and that
authorities will take steps to stabilize markets if needed. The
Kospi index of shares rose 0.8 percent.  ‘Little Impact’  “Since the G-7 has publicly announced its concern over the
yen, it’s likely the yen issue will be addressed at the G-20
summit this weekend,” Yoo Hyen Jo, an analyst at Shinhan
Investment Corp., said in a note today. The won may gain
“keeping an eye on the dollar-yen rate. North Korea’s third
nuclear test had little impact on the forex market as it had
already been widely anticipated.”  The Bank of Korea will keep the key interest rate unchanged
for a fourth month at 2.75 percent tomorrow, according to 14 of
15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The yield on South Korea’s 2.75 percent bonds due September
2017 was rose one basis point to 2.84 percent, Korea Exchange
Inc. prices show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Seyoon Kim in Seoul at 
 skim7@bloomberg.net ;
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  