-- Hyatt Hotels Fourth-Quarter Earnings Decline 69% on Costs
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2013-02-13T13:20:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/hyatt-hotels-fourth-quarter-earnings-decline-69-on-costs.html
Hyatt Hotels Corp. , the chain
controlled by the Pritzker family, said fourth-quarter profit
fell 69 percent as margins decreased at some of its properties.  Net income declined to $16 million, or 9 cents a share,
from $52 million, or 31 cents, a year earlier, the Chicago-based
company said today in a statement. The average estimate of nine
analysts in a Bloomberg survey was 12 cents a share.  Hyatt’s expenses at owned and leased hotels climbed 5
percent in the quarter, party because of insurance costs. The
company also said it was hurt by weakness in some international
markets and slower growth in non-room revenue at U.S. hotels.  “They had a choppy quarter,”  Nikhil Bhalla , an analyst at
 FBR & Co.  in Arlington, Virginia, said in an interview before
the report. “Additionally, on the international front, I think
Hyatt continued to face currency-related headwinds and
oversupply issues in select Asian markets, similar to what
Starwood recently talked about.”  Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc. , owner of the
luxury St. Regis and W brands, last week said fourth-quarter
profit fell as revenue growth slowed in Europe and costs rose.  Hyatt’s revenue per available room, an industry measure of
occupancies and rates, increased 5.8 percent for full-service
hotels in North America compared with the same quarter a year
earlier. Total revpar climbed 7.5 percent. Revenue rose to $1
billion from $990 million a year earlier.  The results included an $11 million tax benefit, down from
$28 million a year earlier.  Adjusted earnings, which exclude certain one-time costs,
were 20 cents a share.  Marriott International Inc. , the largest publicly traded
U.S. hotel chain, is scheduled to report its quarterly results
on Feb. 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  