-- Tyco Slimming Down Becoming Bait for Schneider: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2013-02-13T21:43:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/tyco-slimming-down-becoming-bait-for-schneider-real-m-a.html
Tyco International Ltd. ’s slimmed-
down focus on commercial fire and security products coupled with
its projected 52 percent  profit growth  is making the company
takeover bait, again.  Tyco spun off its home-security and flow-control units in
September, the company’s second breakup in five years. The
separation whittled Tyco down to a business providing video-
surveillance systems and smoke detectors in hotels and office
buildings that analysts estimate will boost net income by 52
percent in the next two years. That’s the second-fastest rate
among the 60 industrial companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Swiss company’s dominant market share would bolster
complementary building services at  Schneider Electric SA ,
Siemens AG or General Electric Co., said FBR & Co. Almost two
years ago, Bloomberg News reported Schneider weighed a bid for
Tyco. The company now may fetch at least $34 a share, according
to Langenberg & Co., implying a takeover value of about $17
billion including net debt. While data compiled by Bloomberg
show that would be the biggest industrial acquisition since
Goodrich Corp. in 2011, Citigroup Inc. said a deal makes sense
because U.S. commercial construction is starting to rebound.  “Tyco certainly looks more appealing” after the spinoffs,
 Nathaniel Gabriel , a New York-based analyst for Argus Research
Co., said in a telephone interview. “The split might open the
door for a deal down the road. The company’s definitely a market
leader now.”  ADT Spinoff  Brett Ludwig, a Princeton, New Jersey-based spokesman for
Tyco, said the company is focused on achieving three-year
targets, including boosting operating margins to as much as 16
percent by 2015.  “We’re 100 percent focused on driving the strategy we put
in place here to achieve growth,” Ludwig said yesterday.
“We’re not concerned by rumors in the marketplace.”  Today, shares of Tyco rose 1.6 percent to $31.50, the
highest closing price since January 2002. It was the sixth-
biggest gain in the S&P 500 Industrials Index.  Tyco completed the spinoff of the two units on Sept. 28,
with shareholders receiving one share of ADT Corp., the
residential-security business, for every two shares of Tyco and
about a fourth of a share of the flow-control unit for each Tyco
share. The flow control unit was immediately merged with Pentair
Inc., a water equipment company. Tyco had already spun off its
health-care unit Covidien Plc and the electronics business TE
Connectivity Ltd. in 2007.  Profit Growth  Tyco, which is based in Schaffhausen, Switzerland, is an
even more attractive takeover candidate now that it has narrowed
the scope of its business and improved earnings prospects, said
 Ajay Kejriwal , a New York-based analyst for FBR.  On average, analysts estimate Tyco will earn $1.2 billion
of  net income  in fiscal 2015, a 52 percent gain from the $800
million projected for this year, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. That’s almost double the median 27 percent increase that’s
forecast for the S&P 500 Industrials Index, the data show.  “There is a very good chance this company will be
acquired,” Kejriwal said in a phone interview. “Part of the
reason we like Tyco is this above-peer-group profit growth rate.
Post the spins, they’re a much smaller company and able to take
costs out and streamline the operations.”  The business would fit well with either Schneider,  Siemens 
or  GE , all of which provide services that could be bundled and
sold with Tyco’s offerings, according to Kejriwal and  Brian Langenberg  of Langenberg & Co. Schneider is the world’s biggest
maker of low- and medium-voltage equipment such as circuit
breakers, while Siemens provides heating and cooling  systems  and
GE lights the buildings.  ‘Natural’ Buyers  Those are the “three natural and capable buyers for
Tyco,” Langenberg, principal and director of research at the
Chicago-based firm, said in a phone interview. “That doesn’t
mean they will, but it would make conceptual sense and strategic
sense. We’re convinced that there’s been at least one real
approach in the last few years, so I would say the chances of it
getting taken out are pretty decent.”  In April 2011, Bloomberg News cited people with knowledge
of the matter as saying that Schneider was studying an offer for
Tyco, when it still included the ADT security business and
valves used in water systems. Two days later, Schneider said it
was “not currently” in talks with the company.  Schneider Chairman  Henri Lachmann  said in a December
interview that the 30.6 billion euro ($41 billion) company will
be looking for acquisitions in the U.S. and Europe.  Construction Rebound  “While it is always a possibility, it would be a very
large deal for the typical candidates mentioned, such as
Schneider,”  Steve Winoker , a New York-based analyst with
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., said in an e-mail.  Veronique Roquet Montegon , a spokeswoman for Schneider,
which is based in Rueil-Malmaison near Paris, declined to
comment, when asked if the company is interested in purchasing
Tyco.  Uta Apel , a spokeswoman for Munich-based Siemens, and
 Sebastien Duchamp , a spokesman for Fairfield, Connecticut-based
GE, said the companies don’t comment on market speculation.  Part of the appeal of Tyco is that about 45 percent of its
more than $10 billion of annual sales are recurring revenue from
customers who have installed its systems and need to maintain
them, Langenberg said.  In a Jan. 29 conference call, Tyco CEO  George Oliver  cited
the Architecture Billings Index, which has shown increased
billings for U.S. non-residential construction, as a sign the
market is poised to rebound.  ‘Holy Grail’  The  index , which the American Institute of Architects says
leads activity by about nine to 12 months, was 52 in December
following a reading of 53.2 in November, the highest in five
years. A level higher than 50 indicates expansion.  “You’re at the doorstep of the turn in the non-residential
cycle,”  Deane Dray , a New York-based analyst at Citigroup, said
in a phone interview. “It’s this whole Holy Grail to be able to
offer bundled services for commercial buildings. You do the
installation and then there’s a nice recurring revenue stream
right behind it.”  In a Jan. 8 report, Dray said there was a 50 percent chance
that Tyco would be bought in the next 18 months.  Tyco’s shares have  risen  12 percent since completing the
spinoffs, leaving it with a price-earnings ratio of 17, based on
analysts’ profit estimates for this year, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The median for industrial stocks in the S&P 500
is 15, the data show.  Deal Odds  An acquisition premium may already be partially baked into
Tyco’s price, said FBR’s Kejriwal, who still recommends buying
the shares. Companies that have gone through breakups often
trade at premiums to the broader market for that reason, said
 Joe Cornell , founding principal of Spin-Off Advisors LLC.  “A company that’s been spun off into parts is probably
three or four times more likely to be bought out down the road
than a typical S&P 500 stock,” Cornell said in a phone
interview from Chicago. “Usually they become pure-plays and
more focused and smaller. That makes them more digestible.”  Langenberg estimates Tyco could be taken out for $34 to $41
a share, as much as a 32 percent premium to yesterday’s closing
price of $31.01. That equates to an enterprise value -- or
equity and debt minus cash -- of at least $16.8 billion. A deal
of that size would rank as the largest for an industrial company
since United Technologies Corp. paid $18 billion for Goodrich,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That deal was announced
in September 2011 and closed in July 2012.  “There is a very good chance this company will be
acquired,” FBR’s Kejriwal said. While it isn’t cheap, “Tyco
has these prime products installed at a very large and
diversified base of customers globally. For any business looking
to expand into this business automation market, this would be a
very, very valuable asset.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Black in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  