-- Euro Drops as Portugal’s Jobless Rate Climbs Before GDP Report
-- B y   T a y l o r   T e p p e r
-- 2013-02-13T22:07:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/yen-weakens-as-boe-s-king-says-currencies-must-be-able-to-move.html
The euro fell against most major
peers as Portugal’s jobless rate rose to the highest in the
shared currency’s history before a report forecast to show the
region’s economy shrank at a faster pace last quarter.  The yen fluctuated against the dollar and euro after Bank
of England Governor Mervyn King said currencies should be
allowed to fluctuate based on monetary-stimulus measures,
allaying concern the Group of 20 would criticize Japan for
weakening its exchange rate. The pound slumped after the Bank of
England said risks to the U.K.’s economic recovery were weighted
to the downside. Sweden’s krona rallied after the central bank
kept interest rates unchanged.  “If the data shows the contraction is getting deeper, the
economy is deteriorating -- that could see growth concerns
resurface,”  Eric Viloria , a senior currency strategist at Gain
Capital Group LLC in New York, said in a telephone interview.
“The focus has been on monetary policy, improving financial
conditions, with the economy in the backdrop.”  The euro was little changed at $1.3452 at 5 p.m. in New
York. The shared currency lost 0.1 percent to 125.64 yen.
Japan’s currency added 0.1 percent to 93.39 per dollar after
sliding to 94.46 on Feb. 11, the weakest level since May 5,
2010.  Japan’s currency has tumbled 17 percent in the past three
months, the worst performer among 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar
declined 1.9 percent and the euro rose 4.3 percent.  Pound, Krona  The pound fell against all of its 16 most-traded peers
after King said the outlook for consumer prices is higher than
was forecast in November and weak productivity is boosting
domestic costs. Sterling dropped 0.8 percent to $1.5542 after
declining to 1.5524, the lowest since Aug. 3.  The krona climbed to a four-month high against the euro
after the Riksbank refrained from monetary easing to weaken the
currency. The Swedish currency rose as much as 1.4 percent to
8.4478 per euro, the strongest since Oct. 1.  The Turkish lira strengthened against a majority of its
major counterparts after the current-account deficit narrowed
more than analysts’ estimated in December. The currency
strengthened 0.5 percent to 1.7638 per dollar and is up 1.1
percent on the greenback for the year.  Portugal Recession  Portugal’s unemployment rate increased to 16.9 percent from
15.8 percent in the third quarter, the Lisbon-based National
Statistics Institute said today. That’s the fastest pace in a
year. Prime Minister Pedro Passos Coelho’s government predicts
joblessness of 16.4 percent in 2013 as the country struggles to
emerge from a recession headed for a third year.  “The Portugal premier sounded concerned about a sharp rise
in unemployment, which is coming on the eve of tomorrow’s growth
data from the euro zone,”  Joe Manimbo , a market analyst at
Western Union Business Solutions, a unit of Western Union Co.,
said by telephone from Washington, D.C.  The euro-area economy will  shrink  at a faster pace last
quarter, the median forecast in a Bloomberg News Survey showed.
Economists predict the 17-nation economy will contract by 0.4
percent, after reversing 0.1 percent last quarter.  The euro advanced earlier after the European Union’s
statistics office said industrial production in the currency
bloc increased 0.7 percent in December from the previous month,
when it fell a revised 0.7 percent. Economists forecast a gain
of 0.2 percent, according to a Bloomberg News Survey.  El-Erian’s View  Markets are trying to “navigate the reality that everybody
is trying to devalue their currencies,”  Mohamed El-Erian , chief
executive officer of Pacific Investment Management Co., said
today in a Bloomberg Television interview with  Betty Liu .
“There is too much reliance on central banks, and currencies
are the collateral damage.”  The yen was mixed versus its major counterparts after the
Bank of England’s King said at a press conference in London
“when countries take measures to use monetary stimulus to
support growth in their economy, then there will be exchange-
rate consequences and they should be allowed to flow through.”  Group of Seven finance ministers and central-bank governors
released a statement yesterday that appeared to signal
acceptance for a weaker yen, so long as Japanese Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe’s government doesn’t actively pursue devaluation.  This position was later challenged when an unidentified
official from a G-7 nation issued a clarification saying the
group was concerned about excessive moves in the yen and Japan’s
practice of giving guidance on its value.  Finance ministers and central bankers from the G-20, which
includes the G-7 and emerging markets such as Brazil, China and
India, meet in Moscow on Feb. 15-16.  “Dollar/yen is not going anywhere until we found out what
happens at the G-20 meeting,”  Richard Franulovich , a senior
currency strategist at Westpac Banking Corp. in New York, said
in a telephone interview. “That will be the catalyst.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylor Tepper in New York at 
 ttepper2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  