-- Yen Ends 2-Day Gain After BOJ Decision; Euro Declines
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2013-02-14T07:28:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/yen-advances-a-3rd-day-before-g-20-meets-kiwi-holds-gain.html
The yen weakened, halting a two-day
advance, as investors overlooked the Bank of Japan’s decision to
keep its asset purchases unchanged and speculated it will add
stimulus to turn around an economy in recession.  The yen fell after  Kazumasa Iwata , a potential candidate to
become the next central bank head, signaled the currency has
scope to depreciate further and data showed Japan’s gross
domestic unexpectedly shrank. The euro was declined after France
and Germany’s economies contracted. New Zealand’s dollar,
nicknamed the kiwi, rose for a third day following figures that
showed the nation’s manufacturing accelerated.  “The market’s focus is shifting to the BOJ under the new
governor,” said  Yoshiko Takayasu , the Tokyo-based head of
corporate sales for National Australia Bank Ltd. “There are
expectations that the yen would weaken towards 100 per dollar
amid hopes there will be further monetary stimulus.”  The yen lost 0.2 percent to 93.63 per dollar at 7:01 a.m.
in London. It gained 0.1 percent to 125.51 per euro, advancing
for a third day. The 17-nation euro declined 0.3 percent to
$1.3411.  The BOJ refrained from adding to stimulus and rejected a
board member’s proposal for keeping interest rates virtually at
zero until a price target is in sight.  The central bank last month doubled its inflation target to
2 percent and pledged open-ended bond buying. Governor Masaaki
Shirakawa and two deputies will step down next month, allowing
Prime Minister  Shinzo Abe  to pick leaders to prosecute his plan
for expanded monetary easing.  Yen Equilibrium  Iwata, a former deputy governor at the BOJ, said in a
statement the price goal can’t be reached without a correction
in the yen’s strength. The yen at 90 to 100 per dollar marks a
return to equilibrium, he said.  “There is a lot of expectation about the Bank of Japan’s
future,” said  Tomomi Yamashita , a senior fund manager at
Shinkin Asset Management Co. in Tokyo. “If the dovish Kazumasa
Iwata takes the governor’s position, there is hope we’ll see
more monetary easing.”  Japan’s currency has tumbled 17 percent in the past three
months, the worst performer among 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar
declined 1.7 percent and the euro rose 4.1 percent.  Citigroup Inc. said in a report yesterday it increased yen
short positions in its Group of 10 overlay portfolio by 5
percent. It reduced dollar short positions by the same amount.
Shorts are bets than an asset’s price will decline.  GDP Reports  Japan’s GDP contracted an annualized 0.4 percent in the
three months through December, following a revised 3.8 percent
contraction in the previous quarter, the Cabinet Office said
today. The median economist forecast was for 0.4 percent growth.  The euro weakened against most major counterparts after the
national statistics office Insee in Paris said France’s GDP
shrank 0.3 percent in the fourth quarter, while economists had
predicted a 0.2 percent drop. Germany’s economy, the euro area’s
biggest, shrank 0.6 percent in the fourth quarter, the nation’s
statistics bureau said, more than the 0.5 percent contraction
forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  “The European crisis has stabilized, but there are
lingering problems and the economy is not looking that rosy,”
said  Daisaku Ueno , a senior foreign-exchange and fixed-income
strategist at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co. in
Tokyo.  Figures later today will probably show the euro-area
economy probably contracted 0.4 percent in the fourth quarter
from the previous three-month period when it fell 0.1 percent,
economists said.  G-20 Meeting  Group of 20 finance ministers and central bankers are due
to start a two-day meeting tomorrow in Moscow. The group will
pledge in a joint statement to avoid policies that lead to
competitive currency devaluations, Japan’s Asahi newspaper said,
citing people familiar with the matter.  The Group of Seven nations released a statement on Feb. 12
that appeared to signal acceptance for a weaker yen, so long as
 Abe ’s government doesn’t actively pursue devaluation.  That position was later challenged when an unidentified
official from a G-7 nation issued a clarification saying the
group was concerned about excessive moves in the yen.  “Guiding the yen lower is a policy that punishes
neighboring nations,”  Eisuke Sakakibara , a former Japanese
Ministry of Finance official, said in an interview yesterday.
Impressions overseas that Japan is trying to orchestrate further
declines in the yen mean that “it will be criticized by the
G-7, as well as the G-20,” he said.  Demand for New Zealand’s currency rose after a report
showed the nation’s manufacturing expanded. The  Performance of
Manufacturing Index  rose to 55.2 in January from a revised 50.4
in December, Business New Zealand and the Bank of New Zealand
Ltd. said in a statement in Wellington. A reading over 50 means
manufacturing is expanding.  New Zealand’s dollar rose 0.2 percent to 84.73 U.S. cents.
The kiwi touched NZ$1.2197 per Aussie dollar, the strongest
since July 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  