-- Yes, Obama Can Tackle Climate Change Alone
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-02-13T18:21:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/yes-obama-can-tackle-climate-change-alone.html
U.S. President Barack Obama  told  the
nation that he’s prepared to “act before it’s too late” and
combat climate change through the White House if Congress is
unwilling to lead.  Given that lawmakers couldn’t  agree  on a landmark cap-and-
trade agreement even when Democrats controlled both the Senate
and the House, congressional action this year is unlikely. The
administration should move forward on its own.  Fortunately, there are many  ways  to fight climate change
without legislation, chiefly by enacting carbon-pollution limits
for new and, more importantly, existing  power plants . Stricter
 energy-efficiency  standards for buildings, appliances and other
equipment can also make a meaningful dent in carbon output,
along with continuing the U.S. government’s own effort to shrink
its carbon footprint.  Over the past two decades, the U.S. has made significant
 progress  in cutting carbon emissions. And last year, pollution
from energy use fell to its lowest level since 1992, according
to the U.S. Energy Information Administration. Still, the U.S.
 accounts  for about 19 percent of global emissions -- emissions
that are  causing  global temperature increases, rising seas,
destructive droughts, floods and hurricanes, according to a
government advisory panel  report  released last month.  First Step  The Environmental Protection Agency has already taken a
critical first step in  restricting  power-plant emissions,
proposing to limit new generators to 1,000 pounds of carbon
dioxide per megawatt-hour. Efficient natural-gas plants would be
able to meet the standard, but coal-fired plants would have to
install expensive carbon-capture systems to comply.  While the rule will effectively ban new proposals for coal
plants, it is expected to do little to reduce emissions.
Utilities are already shifting from coal to cheaper natural gas.  The only way to get significant reductions is to limit
emissions from the more than 500 existing coal-fired power
plants, which spew some 2.2 billion tons of carbon dioxide a
year, more than from any other U.S. source. Such a move would
not be easy, given steep resistance from the coal industry and
its many congressional protectors, who say carbon limits would
drive up electricity prices, hinder the U.S. economy and make
the electric grid less reliable.  It is possible, however, to take industry’s concerns into
account. The Natural Resources Defense Council has  proposed 
setting individual state budgets for carbon emissions, with coal
plants getting a higher allotment -- 1,500 pounds of carbon per
megawatt-hour -- than natural gas. The EPA could work with
states to set limits on total carbon emissions and then let
local governments figure out how to get there -- a model that’s
already in place for  ozone  and other pollutants. And in crafting
the rules, the agency could give the power industry a seat at
the table, as it did when it worked with carmakers to draft
fuel-efficiency standards for automobiles.  The administration should also push forward with efforts to
encourage energy efficiency, which can drastically reduce
emissions as well as consumers’ electric bills, by making energy
sources cleaner and more productive. The plan Obama unveiled in
his national address, to create an energy-efficiency “ Race to
the Top ,” would provide financial support to states that
implement the most effective energy-efficiency policies -- with
the goal of cutting in half the energy wasted by homes and
businesses over the next 20 years.  Standards Delayed  The White House needs to go further, however, and speed its
own efforts to make appliances such as microwave ovens and
equipment such as walk-in freezers more efficient. Eight
standards that the administration has already proposed have been
 delayed  for months. And each month’s delay costs consumers and
businesses $300 million in savings and adds 4.4 million metric
tons of carbon into the atmosphere,  according  to the American
Council for an Energy-Efficient Economy.  In his speech, the president brought up a couple of other
ideas -- to divert some oil- and gas-drilling revenue to
research on alternative-fuel technologies and to make permanent
the  tax subsidies  for wind and solar power. While finding a way
to help renewables like solar and wind compete with entrenched
fossil fuels is critical, Obama’s admirable ideas would require
congressional action. The White House should look for other ways
to bolster clean energy -- including by continuing its effort to
shift the Department of Defense, the nation’s  largest energy
user , toward using cleaner energy sources.  In Obama’s first term, the EPA issued  rules  curbing mercury
emissions, updating boilers and making power plants cleaner.. As
the age of congressional sclerosis continues, rule-making
remains Obama’s most powerful tool for reducing greenhouse-gas
emissions.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 