-- Yudhoyono to Shortlist Candidates for Central Bank Governor
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   A g u s   S u h a n a
-- 2013-02-14T08:39:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/yudhoyono-to-study-candidates-to-replace-central-bank-governor.html
Indonesian President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  is considering candidates to replace central bank
Governor  Darmin Nasution  when his term expires in May.  The president can submit the names of as many as three
candidates to Parliament and must do so by Feb. 22,  Harry Azhar Azis , deputy chairman of a parliamentary commission that
oversees financial affairs, told reporters today. Nasution, 64,
assumed the post in September 2010 after more than a year as
acting governor, and can be re-nominated for the role.  The next Bank Indonesia governor inherits a central bank
that is contending with a weakening currency, a widening current
account deficit and  inflation  stemming from power tariff
increases and higher wages. At the same time, the economy is
slowing, adding pressure on policy makers to add stimulus to
boost growth after keeping interest rates unchanged for a year.  “The challenges for Bank Indonesia over the next five
years aren’t easy,” said  Anton Gunawan , chief economist at PT
Bank Danamon Indonesia. “Looking at global conditions, there’ll
be a reversal of interest rates, and Bank Indonesia will need
people who can anticipate and minimize these problems for the
economy through monetary policy so it won’t be shocked and have
an impact on financial stability.”  Nasution, who has a doctorate in economics from University
of Paris, Sorbonne, France, is the 14th governor in the central
bank’s six-decade history. He became acting governor after Vice
President Boediono resigned in May 2009 to become Yudhoyono’s
running mate in the last presidential election.  Parliamentary Approval  Any nominee for Bank Indonesia’s top position needs to pass
a so-called fit and proper test by the parliament’s finance
committee, then be approved by lawmakers in a plenary meeting.
Firmanzah, a senior staff member for economic affairs at the
president’s office, declined to say yesterday if Nasution’s name
will be re-submitted.  “We hope the position of Bank Indonesia governor will be
decided before Nasution’s term ends, to guard the sustainability
of BI’s policy on maintaining macroeconomics through monetary
policy,” central bank spokesman  Difi Johansyah  said by phone
yesterday.  During Nasution’s tenure, one of his deputy governors was
the target of probes into a 2008 bailout of PT Bank Century.
 Budi Mulya  was under investigation by the state auditor
regarding a “personal” 1 billion rupiah ($104,000) loan he
obtained from the former owner of Bank Century. The deputy
governor was relieved of his role as head of monetary policy
operations and his term ended last year.  Deputy Governor  Two candidates from within Bank Indonesia have been
shortlisted for the post of deputy governor to replace Mulya,
and will undergo required tests on March 11, Azis said today.
They are  Perry Warjiyo , executive director for economic research
and monetary policy, and Hendar, executive director for monetary
policy, he said.  The central bank this week kept its  reference rate 
unchanged for a 12th meeting at a record-low 5.75 percent. The
central bank has stepped up intervention to support the rupiah
and narrow the gap between local and overseas prices, Hendar
said in a Jan. 28 interview.  Bank Indonesia may take action on its benchmark rate if the
currency’s depreciation causes inflation to accelerate, Deputy
Governor  Hartadi Sarwono  said last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shamim Adam at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net  