-- Hyundai Tracks Silver Arrow through Europe’s ’Green Hell’
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h   R a u w a l d
-- 2013-02-13T23:00:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-13/hyundai-tracks-silver-arrow-through-europe-s-green-hell-.html
Hyundai Motor Co.  is planning to
measure itself on a German race track known as Green Hell that
has long been a proving ground for the likes of Porsche and
Mercedes. The goal: To make cars better suited to European
drivers as sales in the region look set to slow.  The Korean carmaker, which along with its  Kia Motors Corp. 
affiliate was the fastest-growing major auto group in Europe
last year, is building a 5.5 million-euro ($7.4 million)
research center at Nuerburgring, a test track used for racing
icons like Porsche’s high-performance cars and the Mercedes-Benz
W25 Silver Arrow from the 1930s.  The facility has direct access to the tree-lined track,
dubbed Green Hell by racing legend Jackie Stewart. The 3,050-
square-meter (33,000 sq. foot) center is geared toward helping
engineers refine handling for European tastes. The expansion is
part of an effort by Hyundai to fend off a renewed challenge by
 Renault SA , Fiat SpA and General Motors Co.’s Opel.  “It will become increasingly difficult for Hyundai to keep
up the pace of expansion in Europe,” said  Juergen Pieper , an
analyst with Bankhaus Metzler in Frankfurt. “The risks are
growing” as rivals introduce new vehicles.  Hyundai and Kia sales surged 12 percent in Europe’s
slumping market last year, winning a combined share of 6.2
percent with a proven formula of low prices and long warranties.
It’s similar to the strategy  Toyota Motor Corp.  used last decade
before its growth in the region plateaued on recalls and a lack
of broader appeal. The Japanese carmaker’s share fell to 4.3
percent last year from 5.4 percent in 2007, according to trade
group ACEA.  Stronger Won  With industrywide demand likely to fall in 2013, Hyundai
aims to maintain its share before “growing again next year,”
 Allan Rushforth , the chief operating officer of Hyundai’s
European unit said in his office outside Frankfurt.  As the pace of model introductions slows, though, Hyundai
expects European sales of its namesake brand to drop 6.5 percent
to 415,000 cars in 2013. That would be the automaker’s first
annual sales decline in the region since 2008.  The slowdown in the region is part of a global trend for
the Seoul-based company, which is being hobbled by the
strengthening Korean won. The group target of a 4.1 percent
increase in 2013 worldwide deliveries would be the slowest
growth rate in seven years. Hyundai’s stock has declined  21
percent  since hitting a 52-week high last May.  Mokka SUV  A break after years of European expansion puts the focus on
further shoring up Hyundai’s image to encourage repeat buyers,
especially as European brands respond, Rushforth said. Renault
last year refreshed the Clio compact and its budget Dacia Logan.
Fiat expanded with the 500L wagon. Opel is rolling out the Adam
city car and Mokka compact SUV.  Almost 13 percent of Hyundai’s customers in Europe last
year came from GM’s European unit, 11 percent from  Ford Motor
Co.  and 8 percent from Renault, the Korean company says.  Hyundai will seek to keep its rivals at bay with a larger
version of the Santa Fe sport-utility vehicle. The Grand Santa
Fe will feature seven seats to compete with people movers like
Ford’s S-Max and the Renault Espace. The car, to debut at the
Geneva Motor Show in March, is expected to hit showrooms in the
second half of 2013.  A new generation of the i10 mini car is also due in the
second half, too late to do much for full-year sales. IHS
Automotive expects Hyundai to miss its target, with sales
falling to 377,600 Hyundai cars this year as Renault, Opel and
Toyota post gains.  Deep Breath  Toyota’s experience “shows that you can’t keep growing all
the time,” said Peter Schumann, who started selling Hyundais at
his dealership in Saarbruecken, Germany, 22 years ago. “After
enormous expansion in recent years, many dealers need to take a
deep breath.”  The group’s interest in European styling is evident in the
promotion of German-born  Peter Schreyer  to head design for both
brands. Schreyer, 59, a star since the 1990s for work such as
 Volkswagen AG ’s New Beetle and the  Audi  TT coupe, got the job
Jan. 13, two weeks after becoming one of Kia’s three presidents
and the first non-Korean to hold the post.  Hyundai and Kia have factories in the Czech Republic,
Slovakia and Turkey. The group in 2003 opened a 50 million-euro
research and development center in Opel’s hometown of
Ruesselsheim, Germany. The facility employs about 220 engineers
and designers working on projects such as diesel engines.  Hyundai sees success in Europe as key to showing it can
compete with the industry’s most storied brands on their own
turf. The strategy to align itself with local motoring culture
is behind the Nuerburgring test center, slated to open in June.  Stripping Paint  “The cars we’ve been most successful with have been
designed and developed here in Europe” like the i30 hatchback,
ix35 compact SUV and i40 wagon, said Europe chief Rushforth.  At the track, which dates to the 1920s, engineers at
 Daimler AG ’s Mercedes stripped the paint off the W25 the night
before a 1934 race to reduce weight--the genesis of the Silver
Arrow name--helping establish the brand among Europe’s elite.  With Nuerburgring’s deep roots in racing history, Rushforth
said he expects the center “to significantly contribute to
enhancing the perception of the Hyundai brand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christoph Rauwald in Frankfurt at 
 crauwald@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  