-- 
‘Big Four’ Audit Firms May Face U.K. Antitrust Investigation This Month

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-05-03T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/-big-four-audit-firms-may-face-u-k-antitrust-investigation-this-month.html
Britain’s antitrust regulator said it
will decide this month whether to open a probe into market
dominance by the “Big Four” accounting firms, focusing on bank
loans that force borrowers to use the largest auditors.  A U.K. House of Lords committee investigating the financial
crisis said in a March report that the firms, which audit 99 of
the 100 largest U.K. companies, should be probed by the London-
based Office of Fair Trading to determine whether their market
dominance wrongfully limits choice. The probe could be the most
high-profile for the agency since it investigated banks’ equity
underwriting practices -- an inquiry that closed without any
action being taken.  The OFT would help determine whether loan terms unfairly
favor Deloitte LLP, Ernst & Young LLP, PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP and KPMG LLP, said  Robert Bell , an antitrust lawyer in
London with Speechly Bircham. The agency, which has kept the
industry under review since 2002, will make a decision on the
probe later this month, said spokeswoman Kasia Reardon.  “The requirement by banks to use one of only four
accounting firms does suggest there’s some restriction or
distortion of competition,” Bell said in an interview.
“Whether that can be objectively explained away is something
they would be looking at.”  An investigation by the OFT would “bring to a head the
long-running debate on competition and choice,” said Mark
Hamilton, a London-based KPMG spokesman. The other auditors said
they would cooperate with any probe.  Loan Covenants  The loan covenants, one of several practices highlighted in
the government report, require borrowers use one of the four
firms to review their books in light of their international
reputations and perceived ability to handle complex reviews.  Ernst & Young will cooperate with any investigation, said
London-based spokeswoman Sarah Jurado. Deloitte and PwC, both
based in  New York , said in statements that they support an
investigation into the existence of restrictive banking
covenants.  In a November 2010 submission to the House of Lords
committee, the OFT said the market for audit services to large
U.K. companies “may be limited” and a “targeted market
study” of the loan covenants was being considered.  “It might be argued that some form of investigation by the
OFT is overdue, with little evidence of action since it promised
to keep the market under review,” said Gustaf Duhs, a lawyer at
Stevens & Bolton LLP. “The OFT is protective of its reputation
and is likely to feel obliged” by the government request.  Non-Audit Companies  The committee also said the OFT should look at limits on
non-audit companies owning shares in auditing firms and whether
liability deters smaller auditors from taking on large clients.  The regulator received a “clear recommendation” from the
committee to undertake a more wide-ranging review, according to
Euan Burrows, a lawyer with Ashurst LLP in  London .  Should the OFT go ahead with the probe, it will likely end
with a referral to Britain’s “second phase” antitrust
regulator, the  Competition Commission , which can ban the loan
covenants, Burrows said.  The U.K. plans to merge the two regulators amid criticism
the OFT is too slow and handles too few precedent-setting cases.
Its biggest fines were slashed by an appeals court in March and
April and its first criminal case collapsed at trial last year.  “The OFT is obviously in a very sensitive position given
these reform proposals and it wants to be seen to be an
effective enforcer,” said Bell.  The regulator’s probe will likely focus on the loan terms
in the probe so broader audit market competition issues can be
reviewed collectively by international regulators, said Duhs.  Individual banks determine the minimum value of loans that
require an audit by the Big Four firms, said Brian Capon, a
spokesman for the British Bankers’ Association trade group.  “This requirement will usually only apply in circumstances
such as very large loans to companies, where a particularly high
level of expertise or specialism is required,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 