-- 
‘Book of Mormon,’ ‘Scottsboro’ Garner Most Tony Nominations

-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f   a n d   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 
2011-05-03T17:02:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/-book-of-mormon-anything-goes-merchant-garner-most-tony-nominations.html
“The Book of Mormon,” the scabrous
musical from the creators of “ South Park ” and “Avenue Q,”
won 14  Tony  nominations, the most of any production this year.
The shows that will compete for Broadway’s top honors were
announced this morning in New York.  “ Jerusalem ,” Jez Butterworth’s comic drama about a former
daredevil biker whose bosky trailer-home is a drugs-and-alcohol-
infused refuge in the English countryside, won six nominations.
They included best play and lead actor,  Mark Rylance .  A revival of Shakespeare’s “The Merchant of  Venice ,”
starring a feral  Al Pacino  as the moneylender Shylock, took
seven nominations, the most of any play, including a best
performance nod for its star.  Four more high-profile actors taking the stage this season
--  comedians Robin Williams and Chris Rock, James Earl Jones
and “ Harry Potter ” star  Daniel Radcliffe  -- were snubbed by
the nominating committee.  “Mormon” follows the misadventures of two young church
missionaries in  Africa . The actors in those parts, Josh Gad and
Andrew Rannells, were nominated. In addition, “Mormon” was
nominated for best book, score, director, featured performance
by an actor and actress, choreographer, set, costumes, sound and
lighting design, and orchestrations.  Final Show  The other best-musical nominees are “Catch Me If You
Can,” “Sister Act” and “The Scottsboro Boys,” which closed
in the fall. The final show by the “Chicago” and “Cabaret”
team of John Kander and Fred Ebb, “Scottsboro” received 12
nominations, the second-most after “Mormon.”  Competing for best play are “Good People,” “The
Motherf**ker With the Hat” and “War Horse,” an import from
 England ’s National Theatre.  Pacino and Rylance will vie for the best-actor award with
Brian Bedford, Bobby Cannavale and Joe Mantello. The latter
stars in a late-season production of Larry Kramer’s 1985 AIDS
drama, “The Normal Heart,” which has become one of the year’s
most-acclaimed shows.  The other nominees for best play revival are “Arcadia,”
“The Importance of Being Earnest” and “Merchant.”  The nominees for best actress are  Vanessa Redgrave , Jones’s
co-star in a revival of “Driving Miss Daisy”; Frances McDormand, Lily Rabe and Hannah Yelland.  ‘Anything Goes’  Cole Porter’s 1934 “Anything Goes,” presented by the
 Roundabout Theatre Company , was nominated for nine awards,
including best revival of a musical and best actress for its
star, Sutton Foster. Its only competition will be Frank
Loesser’s 1961 spoof of the business world, which presented
Radcliffe in his first Broadway role as a song-and-dance man.  Notably absent from the announcement was any mention of the
season’s most talked about, most reported on and, by most
critics’ accounts, most misbegotten musical, the $70 million
“Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark.” That show is currently being
revamped for an announced June 14 opening after several
postponements.  The nominations were voted by a committee of 26 people,
including actors Andre de Shields and Alice Playten, director
Michael Greif and theater historian Robert Kimball.  The Tony Awards are co-produced by the Broadway League, a
trade organization of producers and theater owners, and the
American Theatre Wing, a service group. The approximately 750
voters include members of the League, representatives from the
Wing, Broadway unions representing actors, directors, writers,
designers and offstage personnel, as well as members of the  New
York  Drama Critics’ Circle.  CBS will telecast the 65th annual Tony Awards on Sunday,
June 12 from 8 to 11 p.m. New York time.  To contact the writers on this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .;
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 