-- 
‘Dumb Money’ Flees Muni Funds as U.S. Investors Snap Up Individual Bonds

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   O d y
-- 
2011-05-03T14:39:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/-dumb-money-flees-muni-funds-as-u-s-investors-snap-up-individual-bonds.html
John Hirsch, 57, has been buying
municipal bonds during the past four months, taking advantage of
falling prices as muni mutual funds are forced to sell them to
cover withdrawals.  “I have no interest in trading bonds,” said Hirsch, a
consultant to the medical industry in Clermont,  Florida . “I’m
going to hold until maturity, and at maturity I’ll get the face
value back.”  Investors have withdrawn about $47 billion from U.S.
municipal-bond mutual funds since Nov. 10, pulling money for 24
weeks straight, according to Lipper US Fund Flows, a Denver-
based research company. Retail investors purchased about $3
billion more in individual municipal bonds in the first quarter
this year than in the same period last year, according to data
on trades of $100,000 or less from the Municipal Securities
Rulemaking Board, which regulates muni dealers.  Surging investor withdrawals force mutual-fund managers to
sell in a falling market. Investment-grade muni bond prices have
dropped 4.6 percent in the six months through April, as measured
by the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Municipal Master Index.  “The people who are redeeming are the dumb money, because
they’re redeeming into a market where prices are down,” said
Alexandra Lebenthal, chief executive officer of New York-based
 Lebenthal & Co. , which manages about $170 million in municipal-
bond separately managed accounts. Her firm has received about
$30 million in new money since December.  Muni Defaults  American households own $1.1 trillion of municipal debt, or
about 37 percent of the market, and represent the largest
holders, according to U.S. Federal Reserve data.  In December,  Meredith Whitney , the bank analyst who
correctly predicted  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s 2008 dividend cut, said on
 CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s “60 Minutes” there would be 50 to 100 “sizable”
municipal-bond defaults.  Since July 2009 there have been 284 defaults on municipal
bonds, representing about $8.9 billion of issuance or about 0.3
percent of the $2.9 trillion market, according to data from the
Fed and  Municipal Market Advisors , a research firm. Investment-
grade municipal bonds had a cumulative 10-year default rate of
0.06 percent from 1970 to 2009, according to New York-based
Moody’s Investors Service.  Indiscriminate Selling  Since Whitney’s comments, “the mutual funds and the bond
ETFs have taken it on the chin,” said Robert Kane, speaking
about investor redemptions. “When there’s an issue in the
marketplace which causes retail investors concern, they kind of
run for cover,” said Kane, who’s chief executive officer of
 BondView.com , which provides bond portfolio analysis for
individual investors.  Investors sold all categories of municipal-bond funds,
which range from single-state bond funds to funds that mainly
invest in short- or long-term securities, in the five months
through March, according to  Morningstar Inc. (MORN) , a Chicago-based
research firm.  “Investors have been pretty indiscriminate about what
they’ve been selling,” said Miriam Sjoblom, a bond-fund analyst
for Morningstar.  Outflows have been greatest among high-yield municipal
funds, where investors withdrew 11 percent of their assets, and
among funds that invest in long-term bonds, where investors took
out 8.1 percent. Outflows have been lowest among funds that
invest in short-term investment-grade municipal bonds, where
investors have withdrawn 5.3 percent.  Aggressive Buying  “Those who are sellers in some part are reacting to
newspaper headlines and thinking, ‘Well, I’d better take some
money off the table because the risks are elevated,’” said Josh Gonze, who helps oversee about $6.5 billion in municipal-bond
assets as co-portfolio manager of six mutual funds for Santa Fe,
New Mexico-based  Thornburg Investment Management Inc .  Buyers of individual bonds through discount brokers have
been “aggressively” accumulating issues in the last few
months, said Chris Shayne, senior market strategist for Mill
Valley, California-based  BondDesk Group , a bond marketplace that
works with dealers, financial advisers and discount brokers
including New York-based E*Trade Financial Corp. Individual
investors cannot purchase bonds directly with BondDesk.  The ratio of buy orders to sell orders, a measure of
investor demand, from do-it-yourself investors jumped to about 6
in February from 3.6 in November, according to data from
BondDesk, which has about 30 percent of municipal-bond market
transactions.  Waiting for Yield  Investors with  TD Ameritrade Holding Corp. (AMTD)  brokerage
accounts purchased 22 percent more individual municipal bonds in
the first quarter of 2011 than they did the year before,
according to Perry Guarracino, director of fixed income for the
Omaha, Nebraska-based company.  “They know what they’re looking for, and waiting for
certain yield levels” before buying, said Guarracino, who’s
based in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey .  Advisers and brokers have been buying bonds less
aggressively for their clients, BondDesk’s Shayne said. The
ratio of buy to sell orders for financial advisers and brokers
purchasing bonds on behalf of individual investors has stayed at
about 3 during the same period, the data show.  Individual investors purchasing bonds directly have been
primarily buying short-term bonds, said W. David Hemingway,
chairman of  Zions Direct , an online brokerage that runs
municipal-bond auctions open to individual investors.  Rising Rates  “It’s hard to sell something longer than about three
years,” Hemingway said. Zions Direct is a unit of Salt Lake
City-based  Zions Bancorporation. (ZION)   That’s because individuals are concerned about rising
interest rates, which typically cause longer maturity bonds to
fall more in price than shorter dated debt, said Michael Zezas,
municipal strategist for New York-based  Morgan Stanley. (MS)   “Investors don’t know what to make of the rate
environment,” Zezas said.  Interest payments on municipal bonds generally are exempt
from federal taxes as well as state taxes for investors who
reside in the issuing state.  In April, Senators  Ron Wyden , a Democrat from  Oregon , and
Dan Coats, an Indiana Republican, introduced a  bill  that would
eliminate the tax-exemption on municipal bond interest and
replace it with a tax credit. The bill is awaiting further
action with the  Senate Finance Committee . In December, President
 Barack Obama ’s deficit-reduction commission also proposed to end
the exemption.  Steady Income  Municipal bonds have returned 2.2 percent year to date
according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Municipal Master
Index, which yielded 3.9 percent on April 30, equivalent to a
taxable yield of 5.9 percent for an investor in the top 35
percent federal tax bracket.  Hirsch said he likes the steady income he receives from his
municipal bonds, which account for about 20 percent of his
portfolio.  “What I’m interested in is at a bare minimum preserving
capital, and a predictable return,” he said.  Mutual funds may provide investors with better
diversification than they can get building a portfolio of bonds
on their own, and may be more cost-effective, said Morningstar’s
Sjoblom.  Trading Costs  “There’s no transparency as far as trading costs go when
you have a broker buying or selling bonds. You don’t know if
you’re getting a good deal or not, and usually you’re not,” she
said. Sjoblom said investors should consider mutual funds from
 Fidelity Investments  including Fidelity Municipal Income, which
primarily holds investment-grade municipal bonds and has an
average maturity of 11 years.  Mutual-fund investors may experience more volatility than
holders of individual bonds since mutual funds must price their
portfolios to market every day, said  David Kotok , chief
investment officer of Sarasota, Florida-based  Cumberland
Advisors , which manages about $1.5 billion.  Greg Serbe, a municipal-bond portfolio manager for
Lebenthal & Co., recently invested about $1 million in New York
State Dormitory Authority bonds rated AA- by Standard & Poor’s
that mature in 2018 and pay a 5 percent coupon. He said that
such high-rated short- and intermediate-term bonds have been
hard to find.  New Issuance  “New issuance has fallen off the face of the earth,” said
B. Craig Elder, a fixed-income senior analyst for Milwaukee-
based  Robert W. Baird & Co.  Private Wealth Management, which
manages almost $63 billion. Elder said he has been purchasing
general-obligation bonds from AAA rated states such as  Missouri 
for Baird’s clients.  About $45 billion in municipal securities were issued in
the first three months of 2011, compared with about $87 billion
in the first quarter of 2010, according to Thomas Doe, chief
executive officer at Concord, Massachusetts-based Municipal
Market Advisors.  Fred Bacani said he has been purchasing pre-refunded
municipal bonds, whose coupons and principal payments are backed
by U.S. Treasury bonds held in escrow, for higher pretax yields
than Treasury bonds of similar maturities. Bacani is head of
fixed-income trading for  Newtown Square , Pennsylvania-based
 Veritable , which manages about $10 billion and whose clients
have $20 million or more to invest.  Jason Thomas, chief investment officer of San Francisco-
based  Aspiriant , said he’s finding better value among certain
bonds backed by revenue or property taxes than general-
obligation bonds.  Political Question  “I don’t really know how to evaluate the credit” of a
general-obligation bond issued by the state of  California ,
because “it’s sort of a political question,” said Los Angeles-
based Thomas, who oversees $7.4 billion on behalf of investors
with $5 million or more in assets.  He recently invested $1 million in Ocean Shores,
 Washington , local improvement district bonds rated BBB+ by
Standard & Poor’s that mature in 2031, at a pretax yield of 7.3
percent.  Investors who prefer to lock in a rate of return should
consider holding bonds individually, BondView.com’s Kane said.  “My mother-in-law, Florence, in Long Island, she holds
them for 10 or 20 years and doesn’t really care what happens in
the ups and downs in the market,” Kane said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Ody in New York 
 eody@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 