-- 
Abbott-Teva, Nortel, 3M, VPR, Adobe: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-05-03T11:29:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/abbott-teva-nortel-3m-vpr-adobe-intellectual-property.html
An  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  unit accused
generic drugmaker Teva Pharmaceuticals USA in a lawsuit of
patent infringement with plans to market a copy of Abbott’s
 AndroGel  testosterone preparation.  Abbott is asking a judge to block U.S. sales of the drug by
Teva until its patent 6,503,894 expires in 2021, according to an
April 29 complaint filed in federal court in Wilmington,
 Delaware .  Without such an order, “plaintiffs will be substantially
and irreparably harmed by Teva’s infringement,” lawyers for
Abbott contend in court papers.  The Abbott Park, Illinois-based drugmaker said in a
statement April 29 it received approval from the U.S. Food &
Drug Administration to sell the 1.62 percent prescription gel
formulation, used to treat adult men with hypogonadism, or lack
of testosterone.  The condition, affecting almost 14 million U.S. men, can
result in hair loss, erectile dysfunction, decreased sexual
desire and depression, according to the statement.  The case is Abbott Products Inc. v. Teva Pharmaceuticals
USA Inc., 11-cv-384, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  Nortel Wins Court Approval to Auction 6,000 Telecom Patents  Nortel Networks Corp. (NRTLQ)  won court permission to hold an
auction for its portfolio of wireless technology patents, with
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  making the opening bid of $900 million.  Two judges in the U.S. and Canada approved rules for the
June 20 auction during a joint hearing linked by video
yesterday. The judges also approved a $25 million breakup fee
for Google, should another company outbid the Internet search
company.  “Certainly the sale of approximately 6,000 patents is a
major sale,” U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Gross in Wilmington,
Delaware, said at yesterday’s hearing.  Google last month became the so-called stalking-horse
bidder under an agreement that guarantees a sale for $900
million if no other offers come in. A second bidder will have to
offer Nortel at least $929 million and subsequent bids must be
at least $5 million more, according to the bidding rules.  Nortel filed for bankruptcy in January 2009 after a loss of
$5.8 billion as its customers put off spending on new equipment
amid the recession. Since then, Nortel has raised about $3
billion for its creditors by selling businesses, with the
patents portfolio the last of the major assets to be sold.  The case is Nortel Networks Inc., 09-10138,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Dish Network, EchoStar Settle TiVo Lawsuits for $500 Million  Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , the second-largest U.S. satellite-
television provider, settled all patent litigation with  TiVo
Inc. (TIVO) , ending a seven-year legal dispute over video-recording
technology.  Dish and partner  EchoStar Corp. (SATS)  will pay TiVo $500 million,
including an initial payment of $300 million, as part of an
agreement to dismiss all pending litigation, the three companies
said in a statement yesterday. The settlement gives Dish and
EchoStar rights to use certain TiVo patents for video recording.  TiVo, a pioneer in the market for home DVRs, had been
trying to shut down Dish’s DVR service since winning cases
before a jury four years ago and before an appeals court in 2008
and 2010. With the amount that Dish has already paid TiVo, it
brings the total to more than $600 million, said Chief Executive
Officer Tom Rogers.  TiVo first filed its patent-infringement lawsuit in 2004
against Englewood, Colorado-based Dish and EchoStar when they
were a single satellite-TV and equipment company called EchoStar
Communications Inc. The business split in two in 2008.  Dish said yesterday Michael Kelly will become president of
Blockbuster. Kelly had been Dish’s executive vice president of
commercial services. He joined Dish in 2000 after his company,
Kelly Broadcasting Systems, which distributed international
radio and TV programming in the U.S., was acquired by Ergen.  Last month, Dish agreed to buy nearly all of Blockbuster’s
assets for $320 million out of bankruptcy. In February, it
agreed to acquire DBSD North America Inc., a provider of voice
and data services over satellite, for $1.4 billion.  EchoStar agreed to buy Hughes Communications for about
$1.32 billion in February, giving Dish the ability to offer
broadband services. In January, EchoStar bought Move Networks
Inc., which makes technology for streaming video online.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  3M Sues New York Retailer, Claims ‘Post-It’ Trademark Infringed  3M Co. (MMM) , maker of Scotch tape and Scotch-Brite cleaning
pads, sued a New York retailer for trademark infringement.  Ellison Systems Inc., which does business as  Shoplet.com ,
is accused of infringing the “Post-It” trademark 3M uses for
its repositionable notes.  According to the complaint filed in federal court in
 Minnesota , Ellison’s website uses the phrase “Post-It” to
describe repositionable notes produced by two other companies.
These companies are its competitors, St. Paul, Minnesota-based
3M said in its pleadings.  The public is confused by this practice, and is likely to
assume falsely that some sort of affiliation exists between 3M
and the makers of competing products, according to court papers.
The Minnesota company said its “valuable reputation and
goodwill” are potentially harmed by this action of Ellison.  It asked the court to bar Ellison from using “Post-It”
with any products other than those made by 3M. Additionally, it
seeks awards of money damages, Ellison’s profits attributable to
the alleged infringement, attorney fees and litigation costs.  Ellison didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request
for comment.  3M is represented by in-house counsel Sarah A. Lockner and
 Heather J. Kliebenstein  of Minneapolis- based Merchant & Gould
PC .  The case is 3M Co. v. Ellison Systems Inc., 0:11-ccv-01043-
PJS-LIB, U.S. District Court, District of Minnesota.  China , African Intellectual Property Group Agree to Cooperate  China and the African Intellectual Property Organization
have agreed to bilateral cooperation on intellectual property
issues, People’s Daily  reported .  They agreed to discuss trademark and unfair competition
issues, including malicious applications for trademarks,
protection of trade secrets and IP issues relating to the
Internet, according to People’s Daily.  The agreement, signed in Yaounde, Cameroon, also covers
exchanges of information about the respective nations’ IP laws,
regulations and regulatory documents, according to the
newspaper.  Paulin Edou Edou, who heads the African group, said African
countries should learn from China’s IP strategy and the
country’s emphasis on science, human resources development and
education, People’s Daily Reported.  China,  Russia ,  Canada  Must Act to Combat Piracy, U.S. Says  The  U.S. Trade Representative’s office  said China, Canada
and Russia must take additional steps to combat the theft of
trademarked or copyright-protected goods.  The U.S. government listed China, Russia and Canada among
those on its “priority watch list” of top violators of
intellectual property protections in its annual  Special 301
Report , which was released in  Washington  yesterday.  Other countries on the priority list are Algeria,
Argentina, Canada, Chile,  India ,  Indonesia , Israel, Pakistan,
Thailand and Venezuela.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  VPR Thwarted in What Federal Judge Calls ‘Fishing Expedition’  VPR Internationale, a Montreal-based producer of adult
content, failed to persuade a federal judge to let it serve
legal papers on Internet service providers so it could find the
identity of subscribers who may have infringed the company’s
copyrights.  In his April 29 order, U.S. District Judge Harold A. Baker
said he wouldn’t permit the court’s subpoena powers be used “to
advance a ‘fishing expedition by means of a perversion of the
purpose and intent’ of class actions.”  He also noted that there isn’t necessarily a nexus between
an Internet service provider subscriber’s Internet protocol
address and a copyright infringer.  Baker cited a case of one Internet user whose computer was
seized after he was identified as a downloader of child
pornography. Further investigation, the judge said, proved that
no one was at home when the downloading occurred and that
eventually federal agents discovered it was done by a neighbor
who was using multiple subscribers’ Wi-Fi connections.  VPR International is represented by John L. Steele of
Steele Hansmeier PLLC, the Chicago-based firm that uses
www.wefightpiracy.com as an Internet address. The 1,017 unnamed
defendants are presently unrepresented.  The case is VPR Internationale v. Does 1-1017, 2:11-cv-
02068-HAB-DGB, U.S. District Court, Central District of Illinois
(Urbana).  Counterfeit Adobe Software Spreading Virus in  Australia   Fake  Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE)  software sold in Australia is
infecting computers with a virus there, ZD Net Australia
reported.  The virus, which is capable of collecting personal
information and exposing users to identity theft, is buried in
counterfeit versions of the products, the Australian Police told
ZD Net.  A woman in whose home 200 fake products and a CD burner was
found was arrested and charged with selling the counterfeits,
according to ZD Net.  Peter Sukora, who heads the federal police’s crime
operations, told ZD Net this case shows that buying cheap fake
software may be much more costly in the long run.  Californian Pleads Guilty to Criminal Copyright Infringement  A  California  resident who was accused of downloading and
then sharing an unauthorized pre-release copy of Kanye West’s
“Graduation” song faces a potential five-year prison term,
according to court filings.  Richard Franco Montejano, a member of what court papers
called “an Internet music piracy group known as ‘Old School
Classics’” may also have to pay a fine of $250,000 and submit
to three years of supervised release.  His guilty plea to criminal copyright infringement was
filed with federal court in Los Angeles March 25. He is also
required to notify his probation officer before he uses a
computer or other devices such as a mobile telephone, an
electronic game or a personal data assistant.  Montejano, a resident of Harbor City, California, was
represented by Edward M. Robinson of Torrance, California. He
was prosecuted by Jay V. Prabhu of the U.S. Attorney’s Office.  The case is U.S. v. Richard Franko Montejano, 2:11-cv-
00189-UA, U.S. District Court, Central District of California.  For more copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  Novak Druce & Quigg Expands  Florida  Presence With New Hire  Novak Druce & Quigg LLP  hired Jeffrey H. Kamenetsky for its
West Palm Beach, Florida, office, the Washington-based IP
specialty firm said in a  statement  yesterday.  Kamenetsky , who does both transactional work and
litigation, joins from  Christopher & Weisberg PA  of Fort
Lauderdale, Florida. He has represented clients in the medical
devices, telecommunications, electrical and communication
equipment, Internet, consumer goods and computer-related
industries.  Before he was a lawyer, he worked as an electrical engineer
in the U.S. Air Force and in industry.  Kamenetsky has an undergraduate degree in electrical
engineering from the State University of New York at Stony
Brook, a master’s degree in business administration from Hofstra
University and a law degree from Touro College.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 