-- 
Anadarko Prepared to ‘Come to the Table’ With BP, CEO Says

-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 
2011-05-03T20:05:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/hackett-anadarko-prepared-to-come-to-the-table-on-bp-dispute.html
Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) , the Texas
company that owns a stake in  BP Plc (BP/) ’s damaged Macondo well in
the  Gulf of Mexico , said it’s “prepared to come to the table”
to resolve disputed costs from last year’s  oil spill .  Anadarko has filed a lawsuit blaming BP for the explosion
at Macondo on April 20, 2010, and the record offshore U.S. oil
spill that followed. BP is seeking billions of dollars from
Anadarko in spill-related costs for its interest in the project.  “We don’t think that we owe anything, but we also realize
that our investors would like us to consider some sort of
approach that’s perhaps a compromise from that,” Chief
Executive Officer Jim Hackett said during a conference call with
investors and analysts. “We’re prepared to come to the table
under the right circumstances.”  Anadarko, based in The Woodlands,  Texas , fell $1.84, or 2.3
percent, to $78.51 at 4:00 p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange
composite trading. The price marks a comeback from a drop to
less than $35 a share during June 2010 as the Macondo well
continued to gush oil.  Net income for the first quarter fell 70 percent to $216
million, or 43 cents a share, from $716 million, or $1.43, a
year earlier, when energy futures contracts boosted earnings,
company said in a statement yesterday.  The company has a 25 percent stake in Macondo. BP, the
operator, has a 65 percent interest. A unit of Mitsui Oil
Exploration Co., which is 70 percent-owned by  Japan ’s Mitsui &
Co., has the other 10 percent.  Suing BP  The willingness to talk shows that Anadarko may consider a
settlement as well as possible arbitration proceedings allowed
under an operating agreement with BP, said Philip Dodge, an
analyst at Tuohy Brothers in New York.  “It’s a tradeoff between what they think they would
experience in arbitration -- how much that would be -- compared
with settling before arbitration,” Dodge said. “They’re
probably growing impatient with the timetable here and would
like to accelerate it.”  Anadarko and the Mitsui affiliate sued BP last month over
economic losses from Macondo and the related oil spill. The
companies claimed BP broke its partnership agreement and asked a
federal judge to declare they aren’t responsible for damages and
cleanup costs.  BP asked a judge to put the lawsuits on hold, saying a
joint-operating agreement requires the parties to first attempt
dispute resolution through arbitration.  Anadarko, in a regulatory filing yesterday, said BP has
invoiced the company $4.7 billion for spill-related costs
through March. The company also said it has received a notice of
dispute from BP requesting payment of all invoices related to
the Gulf disaster.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 