-- 
Actelion May Keep Suitors at Bay a Little Longer With Drug Test

-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 
2011-05-03T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/actelion-may-keep-suitors-at-bay-a-little-longer-with-drug-test.html
Actelion Ltd. (ATLN) , the Swiss drugmaker
locked in a boardroom battle with hedge funds, may get its wish
and remain independent -- at least this year.  Potential suitors like  Amgen Inc. (AMGN)  and Bristol-Myers Squibb
Co. would probably wait until the results of a clinical test
confirm a successor to the best-selling lung medicine Tracleer
works, said Lionel Melka, co-manager of Paris-based Bernheim,
Dreyfus & Co.’s Diva Synergy Fund, which holds Actelion stock.  Actelion Chief Executive Officer Jean-Paul Clozel, one of
the company’s founders, has juggled takeover speculation
involving some of the world’s biggest drugmakers and pressure
from activist shareholders. Tomorrow investors are scheduled to
vote on competing board changes proposed by Clozel and Elliott
Advisors (UK) Ltd., a hedge fund with more than 6 percent of
Actelion.  “I don’t think they’ll be bought before the end of the
year,” Melka said in a telephone interview. “No bidder would
put that amount of money on the table when there’s such a big
question mark.”  Actelion, based in Allschwil,  Switzerland , had a market
value of 5.8 billion francs ($6.8 billion) at yesterday’s close
in Zurich. Buying Actelion,  Europe ’s biggest biotechnology
company, would give large drugmakers access to one blockbuster
drug and three medicines in advanced clinical testing at a time
when innovative treatments are scarce.  Amgen, the world’s No. 1 biotech, has considered a takeover
offer for Actelion, two people familiar with the situation said
in November. Other potential bidders may include Bristol-Myers
and Roche Holding AG, according to Melka. Bristol-Myers
spokesman Ken Dominski and Amgen spokeswoman Kelley Davenport
said via e-mail that their companies don’t comment on rumors or
speculation. Claudia Schmitt, a Roche spokeswoman, declined to
comment.  Crucial Study  Actelion’s top-selling Tracleer has dominated the market
for a potentially fatal lung condition called  pulmonary arterial
hypertension  since winning approval in 2001 and the company is
developing two possible successors.  The results of a late-stage study comparing one of them,
macitentan, with a placebo against pulmonary arterial
hypertension will be released later this year or early in 2012.
Tracleer, which garnered sales of 1.64 billion francs last year,
begins to lose patent protection in 2015.  “If someone were to buy it now for macitentan, they would
have to pay up for the pipeline,” said Samir Devani, an analyst
at Nomura Code in  London . “A pharma company would rather know
and pay more than face uncertainty,” he said. Otherwise “it
could either look like a great transaction 12 months from now,
or it could look like a bit of a disaster.”  Second-Best Performer  Actelion has been the second best-performing stock in the
17-member Bloomberg European Pharmaceutical Index over the past
five years, after Danish drugmaker Novo Nordisk A/S. The shares
have fallen 12 percent so far this year.  The stock had its biggest drop in more than a year on May 2
after Actelion said a U.S. jury ruled it should pay Asahi Kasei
Pharma Corp. as much as $547 million in a licensing dispute.  While potential buyers are likely to wait for the
macitentan study results, the announcement of the Asahi Kasei
award makes Actelion more vulnerable to an early takeover bid,
said Olav Zilian, an analyst at Helvea in Geneva.  “It’s possible someone could make a staggered offer
whereby they pay for the core business and then make further
cash payments based on milestones,” Zilian said in a telephone
interview.  Sanofi-Aventis SA (SAN)  tied a portion of its purchase of Genzyme
Corp. this year to the performance of an experimental multiple
sclerosis medicine. A similar structure would allow Actelion to
separate the performance of macitentan from the more easily
valued part of its business, according to Zilian.  Be First  That way, “you could be the first and catch potential
competing bidders by surprise,” he said. Actelion will likely
appeal the Asahi Kasei award and may get the amount reduced
later, which would benefit an early buyer, Zilian said.  The Asahi Kasei ruling comes in addition to a series of
clinical setbacks for Actelion. The company had to halt
development on an insomnia pill, another medicine didn’t help
patients who had suffered from bleeding in the brain and a test
to widen the use of Tracleer failed.  The case of another Swiss company and  drug development 
surprises may also prompt potential acquirers to wait. Basel-
based Roche agreed to buy the 44 percent of Genentech Inc. it
didn’t own for $46.8 billion in 2009, just weeks before results
of a clinical trial which could have helped expand the market
for its top-selling Avastin cancer drug. The medicine failed the
study, Roche shares fell the most in more than 19 years and
Avastin has since stumbled in several additional trials.  Tomorrow’s Meeting  Elliott, part of a $17 billion hedge fund founded by  Paul
Singer , has called for Clozel and Chairman Robert Cawthorn to
leave the board. The fund is nominating James Shannon, former
head of drug development at  Novartis AG (NOVN) , and five others.
Elliott also wants Actelion to disclose any takeover approaches.  “If Clozel is replaced, it could put more pressure on the
board to consider a sale, but they’ll still need a buyer,”
Melka said. And “it’s going to be hard for Elliott. In Europe
institutional investors don’t like activist shareholders because
they see them as disruptive to the business.”  Clozel, a former scientist with Roche, founded Actelion in
1997 with his wife Martine and three other drug industry
executives to develop medicines that Roche had given up on.
Clozel has said Actelion should remain independent and the
drugmaker will be a “completely different company” after the
macitentan study data becomes available.  ‘Destiny Is Clear’  Actelion has responded to Elliott by proposing an expansion
of the board, supporting Jean-Pierre Garnier, a former chief
executive officer of  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) , and Robert Bertolini,
a former chief financial officer at Schering-Plough Corp., as
candidates in addition to the nine current members. If elected,
Garnier would become chairman when Cawthorn quits next year.  Elliott last month won partial backing from a shareholder
advisory group, Institutional Shareholder Services Inc., which
said investors should vote for three of the fund’s nominees.
 Glass Lewis , an independent governance and proxy voting firm,
has advised shareholders to re-elect the company’s board.
Actelion also won backing from BB Biotech AG, a key investor.  Actelion, which claims Elliott is trying to force a quick
sale and risks “destabilizing” the company, has hired Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and Wachtell Lipton Rosen & Katz to help defeat
the fund. Elliott has retained proxy adviser Georgeson and said
its stake in Actelion will be for the long run.  “Actelion will eventually be bought,” Melka said. “Their
destiny is clear.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  