-- 
Adani’s Mundra Port Acquires Abbot Point Coal Terminal for A$1.8 Billion

-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h   a n d   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-05-03T05:25:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/adani-agrees-to-buy-australia-s-abbot-point-coal-terminal-for-2-billion.html
Adani Enterprises Ltd. (ADE) ,  India ’s
biggest coal importer, agreed to pay A$1.8 billion ($2 billion)
for the Abbot Point terminal in Australia’s Queensland state.  Mundra Port & Special Economic Zone Ltd., 77 percent owned
by Ahmedabad-based Adani, was awarded a long-term lease to
operate the terminal by the government of Queensland state,
according to a statement to the Bombay Stock Exchange today.
Queensland is selling the coal export terminal as part of an
A$15 billion asset-sale program.  The company controlled by billionaire Gautam Adani is
acquiring the coal port as India seeks to increase electricity
generation capacity to sustain economic growth of more than 8
percent a year. Adani in August bought a  Linc Energy Ltd. (LNC)  coal
asset for about A$3 billion, gaining control of the Galilee
tenement in Queensland.  Adani gained as much as 2.1 percent to 642 rupees in Mumbai
and traded at 632 rupees as of 10:52 a.m. local time. The shares
have declined 2.8 percent this year, compared with a 7.3 percent
drop in the benchmark Sensitive Index.  Australia’s northeastern state of Queensland, which raised
more than A$4 billion selling shares of coal-train operator QR
National Ltd. in November, started an asset-sale campaign to
replace lost revenue and regain its AAA credit rating.  Queensland, which initially expected to raise A$1.5 billion
from the transaction, will use proceeds from the transaction to
fund its share of the recovery costs following floods and
Cyclone Yasi, the state government said in an e-mailed
statement.  Australian Approval  “Taxpayers have done their bit to establish the terminal
and entice investment,” state Premier Anna Bligh said in the
statement. “It’s time for the private sector to take over.”  Australia ’s Foreign Investment Review Board has approved
the transaction, the government said.  Abbot Point, 25 kilometers (16 miles) north of the town of
Bowen, has one terminal and is being expanded to 50 million tons
from 21 million tons currently, according to its  website . The
terminal has exported coal since 1984, when it was commissioned.  Indian imports of power-station coal increased by 33
percent to 65.7 million metric tons in the year ending March 31,
from 49.4 million a year earlier, India Coal Market Watch said
last month, citing estimates based on port data.  India’s coal deficit may triple over the next five to seven
years, a unit of Moody’s Investors Service said in a February
report. The nation competes with  China  to secure supplies of
coal, used for more than half of its electricity production.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net ;
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  