-- 
Africa Central Banks Moving Too Slowly on Raising Interest Rates, IMF Says

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 
2011-05-03T14:03:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/africa-central-banks-may-be-too-slow-in-raising-rates-imf-says.html
African central banks may be too slow
in raising interest rates, threatening their control over
inflation as economic growth on the continent recovers and fuel
and food prices surge, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  “Despite the recent uptick in inflation, the failure of
monetary authorities in most countries to demonstrate a
tightening bias is cause for some concern,” the Washington-
based lender said in its Regional Economic Outlook for sub-
Saharan  Africa , released on its website today.  Central banks in South Africa,  Nigeria ,  Kenya  and other
African nations have slashed interest rates since 2008 after a
collapse of trade following the global financial crisis.
Nigeria, Kenya and Mauritius are among the few sub-Saharan
African nations to have increased lending rates this year to
curb price increases.  “In those countries where growth has reverted to pre-
crisis levels, the monetary policy stance should commensurately
revert to a more neutral stance or even be tightened to avert
incipient inflationary pressures,” the IMF said.  Inflation will probably average 7.8 percent in sub-Saharan
Africa this year, up from 7.5 percent in 2010, the report said.
In oil-exporting nations, inflation may average 10.3 percent in
2011, while in less stable countries, such as  Zimbabwe  and
 Democratic Republic of Congo , consumer prices will probably
increase on average 9.1 percent, the IMF said.  ‘More Scope’  In  South Africa , where economic growth is still weak and
price pressures are subdued, “there is more scope for a
supportive monetary policy stance,” the IMF said.  South Africa’s  Reserve Bank  has left the benchmark interest
rate unchanged at a 30-year low of 5.5 percent this year,
forecasting that inflation will remain inside its 3 percent to 6
percent target range until the end of 2012. The IMF expects the
economy to expand 3.5 percent this year, compared with the 7
percent annual growth that the government said is needed to
boost jobs in Africa’s biggest economy.  IMF studies suggest there’s a six-month lag between rising
international food prices and domestic price increases in sub-
Saharan Africa. While the impact varies across countries, on
average a 10 percent increase in global food prices will boost
domestic prices by about 3 percent, the IMF said.  “Where food and fuel price increases are pronounced,
monetary policy should accommodate the first round response and
lean against any second round effects,” the IMF said.  Portfolio Flows  Economic growth in sub-Saharan Africa is expected to reach
5.5 percent this year and 5.9 percent in 2012, the IMF said in
its World Economic Outlook report on April 12.  Of sub-Saharan Africa’s 11 so-called frontier markets,
 Ghana , Mauritius and Zambia have lured back capital inflows
following the global financial crisis, while there’s been no
recovery in Tanzania and  Uganda , the IMF said in its report
today. Frontier markets is used to describe nations that have
natural resources such as oil or commodities, viable financial
markets and relative political stability, it said.  Tighter fiscal and monetary policies, as well as higher
economic growth thanks to improved gold and cocoa output and the
start of crude production have boosted the attraction of Ghana.
Zimbabwe’s plan to stabilize its economy which began in 2009 has
also increased “portfolio equity investment,” the IMF said.  Portfolio flows to Nigeria, the continent’s most populous
nation, have recently started to recover, after $2.6 billion of
portfolio investment left the country between 2008 and 2009, it
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 