-- 
After Obama’s Birth, Nuts Will Demand Proof of Bin Laden Death

-- B y   A n d r e w   D u n n
-- 
2011-05-03T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/after-obama-s-birth-nuts-will-demand-proof-of-bin-laden-death.html
Can it be an accident that mere days
before “ Among the Truthers: A Journey Through America’s Growing
Conspiracist Underground”  went on sale,  Barack Obama  released
his long-form birth certificate and announced the burial at sea
of  Osama bin Laden ? I mean, come on.  The suspiciously lucky author is  Jonathan Kay , and his
exploration of the “conspiracist” mindset -- that there must
be more to world events than meets the eye -- is a welcome new
weapon in the war on nonsense.  “How could this happen?” we asked, Job-like, after
Islamist terrorists used civilian aircraft to kill thousands of
innocents on Sept. 11, 2001. For most the answer is clear if
bleak: Even the world’s most powerful nation is vulnerable to
religious fanatics bent on murder. But for some there must be
more: an all-powerful cabal fomenting crisis to advance its own
nefarious interests.  Among the truthers, Kay uncovers an Internet-ready
wilderness of pamphlets and videos purporting to reveal CIA
false-flag attacks, body doubles and Illuminati. “Flowchart”
theories built on unanswered questions, rumors and pretzel logic
imagine unseen forces pulling the strings for big oil, One World
Government or Lizard Men From Space.  This is nothing new in the U.S., but Kay, an editor at
 Canada ’s National Post, traces a recent resurgence to a media
culture that allows likeminded people to find each other and
share information online, and to banish any information that
diverges from their worldview.  Elders of Zion  Most theorists see their chosen villains as hypercompetent,
able to coordinate vast networks to pursue a single goal and, of
course, incredibly evil. The conspiracist reacts to
contradictory facts by “insisting on the existence of ever-
wider circles of high-level conspirators,” Kay says.  He traces this mindset to “The Protocols of the Elders of
Zion,” that early-20th-century repository of Jew-hating
balderdash concocted in czarist  Russia . And, he finds,
contemporary conspiracist circles still attract anti-Semites,
much to the chagrin of their brethren seeking respectability.  Kay does have some glaring blind spots. How can a book
about conspiracy culture devote more space to  Megadeth  than to
the suicide of Vincent Foster and the myriad anti-Clinton
fantasies it spawned? Kay also ignores the role played by the
very real  Tuskegee experiment  in his discussion of the fable
that AIDS was created by the U.S. to kill black people.  ‘The Da Vinci Code’  His pop-culture touchstones are limited mostly to Dan
Brown’s “ Da Vinci Code”  and “ The Matrix ,” ignoring
groundbreaking, post-Watergate films such as “ The Parallax
View ” and “ The Conversation”  and the rambunctious
“ Illuminatus! ” novels of Robert Anton Wilson and Robert Shea,
based in part “on paranoid rantings from people imagining
totally baroque conspiracies,” as Wilson  put  it.  Kay harps repeatedly on leftist “cant” and liberal
scholars, as if Birthers and global warming denialists can count
on a warm welcome in the halls of academe. Universities have no
more of a monopoly on specious argument than do congressional
committees.  There are no interviews with those he identifies as guiding
lights of the conspiracy crowd, such as Noam Chomsky, Naomi Klein and  Glenn Beck . He also skates over the economics of the
conspiracy business -- DVDs, books and conference fees. As a
conspiracist might ask: Cui bono?  Still, there’s plenty to chew on here, especially Kay’s
profiles of individual conspiracists and the lessons he learns
from them.  First, don’t call them “nutbars.” You’ll get mail.  Second, don’t try to argue with them.  “In every exchange, the conspiracy theorist inevitably
would ignore the most obvious evidence and instead focus the
discussion on the handful of obscure, allegedly incriminating
oddities he had memorized,” Kay says. “The conspiracist claims
victory merely by scoring a single uncontested point -- since,
as he imagines it, every card he plays is a trump.”  “Among the Truthers” is published by Harper (340 pages,
$27.99). To buy this book in North America click  here .  ( Andrew Dunn  writes for Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the reporter on the story:
Andrew Dunn in New York at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  