-- 
Air France Crash Investigators Pull Second Black Box From Sea

-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 
2011-05-03T09:48:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/air-france-crash-investigators-pull-second-black-box-from-sea.html
Air crash investigators retrieved the
second of two black boxes from the Air France jet that plunged
into the Atlantic in 2009, which may help them unlock the
mysteries of the crash after two years.  “They appear to be in a good state,” said Jean-Paul Troadec, head of the BEA, the French air crash investigator that
has been probing the accident that killed all 228 people aboard
a flight from  Rio de Janeiro  to Paris. “The first thing is to
dry them, prepare them, which needs about a day.” Once the boxes
arrive in BEA’s offices, in about 10 days, “the reading of
information would be pretty fast,” he said.  A robotic submarine found the memory unit containing flight
data and retrieved it on May 1. The second, which records sounds
in the cockpit, was located yesterday and pulled up this morning
at 4:40 a.m. Paris time. The steel-encased, bright orange boxes
are awaiting shipment to  BEA ’s office, at Le Bourget airfield,
near Charles de Gaulle Airport outside Paris.  The recovery of the boxes may end the hunt for clues to
explain the worst accident in Air  France ’s history. Three
previous search missions starting in June 2009 failed to locate
the plane’s main wreckage, which was found last month in about
3,900 meters (12,800 feet) of water.  The flight data recorders contain 1,300 parameters, Troadec
said, including the plane’s altitude, the position of the
rudder, and the functioning of aircraft systems. The second
includes pilot conversations and all sounds in the cockpit,
including alarms that will have gone off as various systems
failed.  Synchronizing Information  “The idea is to bring the two sets of information
together,” Troadec said. “We synchronize them,” for a full
picture of what happened.  Once flight recorders arrive, they can be plugged into a
computer “with something like a giant USB key” and read as
documents, Troadec said. The recorders, accompanied by BEA’s
chief investigator and police, will be fetched from the ship and
escorted by a French navy boat to a port and flown on to BEA’s
offices, he said.  With both boxes located, the BEA is still seeking to
retrieve “several dozen” airplane parts, all in the form of
debris, which would also help investigators piece together what
happened to the Air France-operated Airbus A330-200 during a
storm about four hours into its Flight 447 on June 1, 2009.  Parallel Investigation  Photographs of the debris have also revealed the existence
of passengers’ bodies, many still strapped into their seats in
the aircraft cabin. Troadec said the question of whether to
retrieve them is being discussed with families of the victims
and declined to give further information. The French government
itself has said the bodies might be recovered, as autopsies may
be required in a criminal investigation of the accident that’s
proceeding in parallel with the BEA’s probe.  The search operation is based on a 140-meter ship owned by
French phone-equipment maker Alcatel-Lucent SA that’s normally
used for laying deep-sea cables. Operating from the ship is
underwater engineering company  Phoenix International Holdings
Inc. , which sent one of its two “Remora” robotic submarines,
equipped with high-resolution cameras and two manipulator arms.  Airbus has experts on the ship to help BEA identify parts
of the plane that could help investigators understand the
accident, said Airbus spokesman  Jacques Rocca . Airbus will not
be involved in reading the data from the recorders, he said.  Only when the flight recorders have been cleaned and dried
will investigators be able to tell if they have experienced any
corrosion, Troadec said. BEA may call upon  Honeywell
International Inc. (HON) , which built the boxes, if there is damage.
It has also had contact with several laboratories in France that
specialize in data recovery if retrieving the data is more
challenging, Troadec said, declining to name them. If there’s
damage to the recorders it could take several weeks to obtain
information, he said.  The investigation’s ultimate goal, he said, is to come up
with safety recommendations to help prevent future accidents of
the same type.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse, France, at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  