-- 
Airline Stocks Break Out of Falling Channel: Technical Analysis

-- B y   L u   W a n g
-- 
2011-05-03T11:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/airline-stocks-break-out-of-falling-channel-technical-analysis.html
U.S. airline shares may be poised to
rally after breaking out of a “falling channel” and garnering
momentum that’s the strongest since early January, according to
StockCharts.com.  The  NYSE Arca Airline (XAL)  Index, which tracks 15 carriers
including  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) , last week climbed above “the
upper trend line” of its downward channel that had confined the
group’s movement since January, making the “first step towards
a trend reversal,” said Arthur Hill, a technical analyst at
StockCharts.com. More gains may be in store should the index
exceed its previous peak of $44.55 reached on March 11, Hill
said. The index rose 0.1 percent to $43.16 yesterday.  “The index has yet to take out its late March high,” Hill
wrote in a note to clients yesterday. “A move above this level
would forge a higher high and fully reverse the 2011
downtrend.”  Airlines underperformed other stocks this year as oil
prices rose last month to the highest level since September
2008, spurring concern that higher fuel costs will hurt
earnings. The Airline index dropped 8.2 percent through
yesterday this year, compared with an 8.2 percent increase in
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  The group jumped 5.9 percent last week, the most since the
week of Sept. 3, as Delta Air, the world’s second-largest
carrier, and  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  posted smaller first-quarter
losses than analysts estimated. Previously,  United Continental
Holdings Inc. (UAL)  and  AMR Corp. (AMR)  also reported losses narrower than
analysts expected, while  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  posted a profit.  The index’s rebound was backed by strong momentum,
suggesting more gains are likely to follow through, according to
Hill. The 14-day relative strength index for the airline
benchmark ended the week at 60, the highest level since Jan. 7,
according to Bloomberg data.  Technical analysts study charts of trading patterns and
prices to predict changes in a security, commodity, currency or
index. RSI identifies possible turning points by measuring the
degree by which gains and losses outpace each other.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lu Wang  in New York at   lwang8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 