-- 
Ex-Goldman Sachs Programmer Aleynikov Loses Bid to Be Freed During Appeal

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-05-03T20:42:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/aleynikov-loses-bid-to-be-freed-from-jail-pending-his-appeal.html
Ex- Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  computer
programmer Sergey Aleynikov lost his bid to be freed from jail
while he appeals a 97-month prison term for stealing the firm’s
source code for high-frequency trading.  A panel of three judges on the federal court of appeals in
New York rejected Aleynikov’s request after hearing today
arguments by his lawyer and the government.  “Upon due consideration, it is hereby ordered that the
motion is denied,” Judges Richard Wesley, Guido Calabresi and
John Walker Jr. said.  Aleynikov was convicted in December of violating the
Economic Espionage Act and the Interstate Transportation of
Stolen Property Act. His lawyer,  Kevin Marino , told the judges
that his client should be released because there’s a substantial
likelihood the conviction by a federal jury will be overturned.  On his last day of work at New York-based Goldman Sachs on
June 5, 2009, Aleynikov uploaded hundreds of thousands of lines
of source code from the firm’s high-frequency trading system,
the U.S. said. He then circumvented Goldman Sachs’s security
system, sent the code to a server in  Germany , compressed and
encrypted it and took it with him to a meeting with new
employers in  Chicago . The U.S. argued Aleynikov wanted it as a
“cheat sheet” to start a trading system at his new job.  ‘Stream of Commerce’  “There is a substantial question as to whether stealing
computer source code violates either of these statutes,” Marino
told the court today. “Goldman Sachs never intended to place
its high-frequency trading system into the stream of commerce.”  Marino declined to comment on the ruling.  The appeals court previously rejected a bid by Aleynikov to
be freed after the trial judge, U.S. District Judge  Denise Cote ,
ordered him jailed in March, saying he posed a risk of flight.
He is being held at the Metropolitan Detention Center in
 Brooklyn ,  New York , Marino said after court today.  During the trial, Marino argued that Aleynikov only took
open-source code he had written at Goldman Sachs and that
nothing he took was proprietary.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Joseph Facciponti today told the
court that Aleynikov still posed a flight risk. Prosecutors are
confident the conviction would be upheld, he said.  “This court and other district courts have confirmed that
business information and trade secrets can be protected under
these statutes,” Facciponti said.  The case is U.S. v. Aleynikov, 1:10-cr-00096, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 