-- 
Algerian Cabinet Approves Boosting Public Spending This Year

-- B y   S a l a h   S l i m a n i   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-05-03T15:19:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/algerian-cabinet-approves-boosting-public-spending-this-year.html
Algeria will increase its budget
spending this year by 25 percent and waive duties on imports of
some food staples, in the latest attempt to stem the discontent
that has fueled uprisings across the region.  The Cabinet approved a draft law increasing spending in the
2011 budget to about 8.3 trillion Algerian dinars ($116.4
billion) from 6.61 trillion Algerian dinars, according to a
government statement carried by the state-run APS news agency
late yesterday. The money will be used for salary increases,
boosting subsidies for wheat, milk, cooking oil and sugar, and
expanding employment programs among other things, it said.  The measure is designed to “protect the purchasing power
of the citizens and respond to youths’ employment demands,” the
government said.  Protests, many demanding wage increases, are continuing in
the North African country after popular revolutions toppled the
leaders of Tunisia and  Egypt  and led to fighting between Libyan
rebels and troops loyal to  Muammar Qaddafi . The rise of food
prices was one of the catalysts that fueled anti-government
protests in Egypt.  The Algerian Cabinet also agreed to waive customs tariffs
and value added tax on the imports of cooking oil, and raw and
refined sugar, the government said.  Algerian President Abdelaziz Bouteflika on April 15
promised quicker political and economic changes in response to
protesters’ demands. His government would review the country’s
election law and appoint a panel to review the constitution,
give more authority to provincial councils, build 1 million
housing units by 2014 and provide more jobs for youths, he said.  Algeria ended its 19-year-old state of emergency in
February, days after 800 protesters were prevented by police
from holding a sit-in in the capital, Algiers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Salah Slimani at 
 sslimani2@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  