-- 
Ally Reports Lower Net Income on Weaker Home, Auto Loans

-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-05-03T12:20:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/ally-financial-reports-lower-profit-as-soured-home-loans-mount.html
Ally Financial Inc., the auto and home
lender preparing to go public, reported first-quarter profit
fell 9.9 percent as income declined at its two core units.  Net income declined to $146 million from $162 million in
the same period a year earlier, Detroit-based Ally said today in
a statement. The closely held company is 74 percent owned by the
U.S. government after at least three taxpayer-funded bailouts
valued at $17.2 billion, and has filed with securities
regulators to sell shares to the public.  Chief Executive Officer Michael Carpenter, 64, returned the
company to profitability last year by refocusing on auto lending
and reducing risk in the mortgage business. Ally, known as GMAC
when it was a unit of General Motors Co., is the primary lender
to GM and Chrysler Group LLC dealers. It’s also among the top
five U.S. mortgage originators and servicers.  “While core pre-tax income was lower due to the moderation
of certain factors that benefited us last year, we expect
profitability to improve over time, as our cost of funds
continues to decline, our credit mix becomes more balanced and
the original issue discount from bond exchanges runs off,”
Carpenter said in the statement.  Segment Results  Net income from continuing operations in North American
auto finance fell to $518 million in the first quarter from $612
million in the year-earlier period, the company said.  The mortgage business posted a $34 million profit from
continuing operations, compared with a gain of $156 million in
the first three months of 2010.  Industrywide light-vehicle sales ran at a seasonally
adjusted annual rate of 13.1 million in March, according to
 Woodcliff Lake , New Jersey-based researcher Autodata Corp. For
the first quarter, GM sold almost 600,000 autos while Chrysler
sold almost 300,000, the companies reported.  Ally filed for an IPO in March without setting the size,
price and timing. The sale may take place at the end of the
second quarter, two people familiar with the matter said in
February. Underwriters include Citigroup Inc., Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., Morgan Stanley and JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 