-- 
Alpha Misses Analyst Estimates on Higher Coal Mining Costs

-- B y   M a r i o   P a r k e r
-- 
2011-05-03T20:13:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/alpha-natural-resources-profit-gains-on-more-expensive-coal.html
Alpha Natural Resources Inc. (ANR) , which
agreed in January to buy  Massey Energy Co. (MEE)  for $7.1 billion,
missed analysts’ estimates amid higher costs to mine the
steelmaking and power-plant fuel.  Net income climbed to $49.8 million, or 41 cents a share,
from $14 million, or 12 cents, a year earlier, Abingdon,
Virginia-based Alpha said today in a statement. The company was
expected to earn 74 cents, based on the average of nine analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales advanced 23 percent to
$1.13 billion from $922 million.  Alpha, led by Chief Executive Officer Kevin Crutchfield,
saw costs per ton increase 29 percent to $34.59 a ton amid lower
volumes as it moved mining machinery at its Northern Appalachia
operations.  “With Alpha it’s really just one-time-in-nature events,”
said  Jeremy Sussman , an analyst at Brean Murray Carret & Co. in
 New York .  Alpha slumped $2.39, or 4.2 percent, to $55.18 in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have gained 19
percent in the past year.  Sussman said the share decline was exacerbated by Massey’s
fourth consecutive quarterly loss that was reported yesterday
after the market closed and that Alpha wouldn’t have fallen as
much because it signed pricier coking coal contracts.  Metallurgical Coal  Alpha lifted its forecast for metallurgical coal shipments
to 13.5 million to 14.5 million tons this year, from an earlier
estimate of 13 million to 14.5 million tons, it said.  “I would think of the first quarter as a trough with the
winds at our back the rest of the year,” Crutchfield said today
on a conference call with analysts and investors.  The company said that it was able to contract about 1.2
million tons of its coking coal for $324 a metric ton.  “As we progress through the year, quarterly results should
reflect the benefit of increasing average realizations on newly
contracted metallurgical coal and the roll-off of older
metallurgical contracts,” in addition to increased longwall
production at its Cumberland and Emerald operations in Green
County,  Pennsylvania , Alpha said.  Alpha agreed Jan. 29 to buy Massey in cash and stock to
create the world’s third-largest producer of coal used to make
steel at a time when prices are surging. It expects cost savings
from the combination to reach $150 million annually within the
second year of operations.  Massey Loss  Massey yesterday reported a net loss of $7.7 million, or 7
cents a share and tempered its production outlook amid surging
costs. The company owns the Upper Big Branch mine near Montcoal,
 West Virginia , where 29 people died in April 2010, in the
deadliest U.S. coal mine explosion in 40 years.  The company plans to ship 41 million to 44 million tons of
coal this year, down from an earlier estimate of as much as 47
million tons, it said.  Massey said costs will average $64 to $67 a ton. The lower
end of its earlier projection was $59.  Alpha and Massey expect the merger to close after
shareholders vote on June. 1.  On its conference call earlier, Massey said that it had a
1.2 million-ton coal shortfall during the first quarter as it
navigated lower productivity at underground mines and wasn’t
able to fully staff some operations.  The producer’s turnover rate was about percent in January
and 14.9 percent in April, higher than the ideal 12 percent,
Chief Executive Officer Baxter Phillips said on a conference
call today.  Crutchfield said that the hiring challenges should subside
once the merger is complete.  “I’m not saying we’ll have a lock on the labor pool but I
think once we begin calibrating benefit systems and whatnot”
the combined company will reduce turnover, Crutchfield said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mario Parker in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  