-- 
Hamas, Fatah Conclude Agreement to End Four Years of Palestinian Division

-- B y   S a u d   A b u   R a m a d a n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 
2011-05-04T14:25:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/hamas-fatah-to-sign-cairo-accord-ending-four-years-of-political-division.html
Leaders of the Palestinian Authority
and the Islamic Hamas movement completed an agreement to end an
almost four-year rift and establish a joint government, a move
that Israeli officials say will harm prospects for peace.  Mahmoud Abbas , the authority’s president and chief of its
ruling secular Fatah faction, and Khalid Mashaal, head of the
Hamas movement, were presented today with a copy of the signed
accord by Egyptian officials who mediated their talks. An
alliance between the two groups ruptured in 2007, leaving Fatah
in control of the  West Bank  and Hamas ruling Gaza.  “We have turned the page from this black internal
division,” Abbas said at the ceremony. “We may differ, and we
often do, but we still arrived at a minimum level of
understanding.”  The reconciliation agreement follows a series of West Bank
and Gaza rallies -- inspired by popular protests that led to the
toppling of Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  and Tunisian
President Zine El-Abidine Ben Ali -- in which Palestinians
called for an end to the division. Abbas is asking foreign
countries to recognize a Palestinian state and has said a united
leadership will help achieve that goal.  “The people want unity even if that’s uncomfortable for
Israel and the U.S.,” said Mkhaimer Abusada, a political
scientist at Al Azhar University in Gaza City. “Among the
lessons of the Arab spring is that it doesn’t work for the
Palestinians to boycott or isolate Hamas.”  Joint Government  The accord calls for the establishment of a joint
government in the West Bank and Gaza Strip and elections within
a year. Abbas said today that he proposed that the balloting be
held within three months.  “We have decided to pay any price for the reconciliation
to succeed,” Mashaal said.  Abbas said yesterday that Hamas won’t be asked to recognize
 Israel  because he will be directing foreign policy and the
government will consist of “technocrats” who aren’t explicitly
connected to one faction or another.  Hamas hasn’t participated in peace talks with the Jewish
state, which it refuses to recognize. Hamas is considered a
terrorist organization by the U.S., European Union and Israel.
Fatah seeks a negotiated peace agreement with Israel leading to
the establishment of a Palestinian state in the West Bank, Gaza
Strip and east Jerusalem.  ‘Coming Days’  “A Cabinet will be formed in the coming days,” chief
Palestinian negotiator Saeb Erakat said by telephone from Cairo.
“The main thing is that the new Cabinet will have to stick to
Palestine Liberation Organization commitments including the ones
concerning Israel.”  Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who is on a
European trip to meet with the leaders of the U.K. and  France ,
condemned the agreement.  “What happened today in Cairo is a tremendous blow for
peace and a great victory for terrorism,” Netanyahu told
reporters traveling with him in  London .  Israeli Finance Minister Yuval Steinitz said May 1 that his
government will withhold  tax revenue  collected on behalf of the
Palestinians until it is certain the funds won’t end up in the
hands of Hamas.  The U.S. has said it might reconsider aid to the
Palestinians should the reconciliation lead to a unity
government that flouts conditions for a peace agreement with
Israel, including its right to exist.  U.S. Aid  The  Palestinian Authority  is supposed to receive almost
$600 million from the U.S. this year, according to the State
Department. Hamas receives millions of dollars from  Iran  each
year, according to Hamas leader Mahmoud Zahar.  Netanyahu, who meets U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
later today for dinner, will travel to Paris tomorrow for a
meeting with French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  aimed at tempering
European support for a Palestinian state that includes Hamas,
Netanyahu told reporters.  Fatah and Hamas reached an agreement on April 27 that paved
the way for today’s ceremony. In 2007, Hamas violently ousted
forces loyal to Abbas from Gaza a year after winning
parliamentary elections.  Peace negotiations between Abbas and Netanyahu fell apart
last year after Israel refused to extend a partial 10-month
construction freeze in Jewish settlements in the West Bank.
Abbas has said he will resume negotiations only when all
building is halted.  Holding Elections  “Participation in the Palestinian government and the
holding of elections will also create more serious pressure on
Hamas to work for quiet in the  Gaza Strip , which in turn can
help advance the diplomatic process,” Shlomo Brom, head of the
program on Israel-Palestinian relations at the Tel Aviv-based
Institute for National Security Studies, said in a paper he
circulated by e-mail on the agreement.  The unity agreement may be a step toward the Palestinian
Authority seeking United Nations recognition of an independent
state if negotiations with Israel, broken off last September,
aren’t resumed.  “The need for reconciliation has become more urgent given
that the Palestinian Authority has, in the eyes of the world,
crossed the line in terms of statehood readiness,” Palestinian
Authority Prime Minister Salam Fayyad told reporters in
Ramallah.  France is considering recognition of a Palestinian state as
“one of the options we are reflecting on with our European
partners,” said French Foreign Ministry spokesman  Bernard Valero .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at  at
 jferziger@bloomberg.net 
Saud Abu Ramadan in Cairo through the  Jerusalem  newsroom at
   sramadan@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  