-- 
Hamas Signs Accord With Fatah to End Four-Year Rift, Form Unity Government

-- B y   S a u d   A b u   R a m a d a n   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-05-03T14:17:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/hamas-signs-accord-with-fatah-to-end-four-year-rift-form-unity-government.html
Leaders of 11 Palestinian groups
signed an Egypt-mediated accord between Hamas and Palestinian
Authority President Mahmoud Abbas’s Fatah party, paving the way
for a formal declaration of the agreement.  “All factions, including Fatah and Hamas, have signed onto
the Egyptian-drafted pact of reconciliation,” Walid al-Awad, a
senior member of the Palestinian  People’s Party , told reporters
in Cairo today. He said an official ceremony announcing the
agreement will be held in the city tomorrow.  Fatah, which governs the West Bank, and the Islamic group
Hamas, which rules the  Gaza Strip , reached understandings on
April 27 that are aimed at ending a nearly four-year rift and
paving the way for national elections and a unity government. In
2007, Hamas ousted forces loyal to Abbas from Gaza a year after
winning parliamentary elections.  Israel has denounced the agreement and on May 1 said it
would withhold  tax revenue  collected on behalf of the
Palestinians until it was certain the funds wouldn’t end up in
the hands of Hamas. The U.S., the European Union and  Israel 
consider the group a terrorist organization. Hamas hasn’t
participated in peace talks with the Jewish state, which it
refuses to recognize.  Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu called on Abbas
to cancel the pact. “The agreement between Abu Mazen and Hamas
deals a severe blow to the peace process,” Netanyahu said
before heading to Paris and  London . Abbas is also known as Abu
Mazen. “How can peace be reached with a government, half of
which calls for the destruction of Israel?”  Construction Freeze  Negotiations between Abbas and Netanyahu fell apart last
year, several weeks after they began, when Israel refused to
extend a partial 10-month construction freeze in Jewish
settlements in the  West Bank . Abbas has said he will resume
negotiations only when all building is halted.  Abbas said last week that Fatah, which seeks a negotiated
peace agreement with Israel leading to the establishment of a
Palestinian state in the West Bank, Gaza Strip and east
 Jerusalem , will set the policy in any unity government with
Hamas.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saud Abu Ramadan through the Jerusalem bureau 
 sramadan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 