-- 
Amazon.com Sues College Stores Association Over Textbook Ads

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e
-- 
2011-05-03T22:16:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/amazon-com-sues-college-bookstores-group-over-false-advertising-charges.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , the biggest online
retailer, sued for a court order declaring that its advertised
discounts of 30 percent on new college textbooks and 90 percent
on used ones aren’t false or misleading.  Amazon sued the National Association of College Stores Inc.
today in federal court in  Seattle , saying the trade group is
trying to prevent it from advertising lower prices. The
association filed a complaint in March with the Better Business
Bureau in  New York  calling Amazon’s claims false and misleading,
the online retailer said in its filing.  The lawsuit is the latest skirmish over sales practices at
Seattle-based Amazon, which got its start in 1995 as an online
bookseller. After Amazon introduced the Kindle digital reader in
2007, publishers complained that it was selling electronic books
at a loss to gain market share. In a move to mollify publishers,
the company last year agreed to give them some digital pricing
control.  Charles Schmidt, a spokesman for the Oberlin, Ohio-based
National Association of College Stores, had no immediate
comment. Mary Osako, a spokeswoman for Amazon, declined to
comment.  Amazon’s complaint seeks an order that its textbook price
claims don’t violate the Lanham Act, which prohibits false
advertising and trademark infringement.  The case is Amazon.com v. National Association of College
Stores Inc., 11-754, U.S. District Court, Western District of
 Washington  (Seattle).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  federal court at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Galante in San Francisco at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  