-- 
America Movil Can’t Block Fee Cuts Ordered by Government, Top Court Says

-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 
2011-05-04T02:21:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/america-movil-phone-carriers-can-t-block-fee-cuts-supreme-court-says.html
America Movil  SAB and other Mexican
phone companies cannot use a legal procedure to protect
themselves from price cuts ordered by the government, the
nation’s  Supreme Court  ruled.  The companies may not obtain an injunction from a judge
allowing them to continue charging competitors at a higher rate
when the  Federal Telecommunications Commission  has set a lower
one, the court ruled in a 6-4 vote, with one judge absent. The
telecommunications agency sets fees for payments between phone
companies to connect calls when the companies can’t reach an
agreement themselves.  The ruling takes away a legal option that America Movil has
used to block a fee cut while it challenges the government’s
calculation of the appropriate price. While the company still
will be able to seek to overturn the agency’s decisions on fees,
it must pay the commission’s price during the appeals process.  America Movil, controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim , said
in an e-mailed statement that it will respect the Supreme Court
ruling. The wireless provider said it will continue with legal
challenges to fees set by the commission that it filed
previously.  America Movil has asked companies to pay a rate of 95
centavos a minute this year when their customers make calls to
users of America Movil’s network. The Federal Telecommunications
Commission has set a rate of 39 centavos for three companies --
Grupo Televisa SA,  NII Holdings Inc. (NIHD)  and Alestra SA -- that have
sought its intervention in pricing disputes.  The telecommunications agency’s decisions and the Supreme
Court ruling may cut about 4 percentage points from America
Movil’s wireless profit margins in  Mexico ,  Christopher King , an
analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in Baltimore, said today in an
e-mail.  America Movil expects to keep its Mexican wireless profit
margin above 50 percent this year, Chief Executive Officer
Daniel Hajj said today on a conference call. The wireless unit
in Mexico, America Movil’s biggest market, represented 24
percent of the company’s first-quarter sales.  America Movil fell 1.07 pesos, or 3.3 percent, to 31.5
pesos today in Mexico City trading. The shares have dropped 11
percent this year.  --Jonathan Roeder in Mexico City contributed to this report.
Editors: Stephen West, Robert Jameson  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  