-- 
Man Group Raises $1.5 Billion for Fund From Japanese Investors

-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 
2011-05-03T09:58:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/man-group-raises-1-5-billion-for-fund-from-japanese-investors.html
Man Group Plc (EMG)  said it raised $1.5
billion from Japanese investors for a product tied to the
company’s largest hedge fund, beating estimates by analysts who
raised concerns that the March earthquake would hurt demand.  The Nomura Global Trend fund began trading the last week of
April, London-based Man Group, the world’s biggest publicly
trade hedge fund, said in a statement today. It is linked to Man
AHL Diversified Plc, a computer-driven program that accounts for
about one-third of the company’s $69 billion under management.  The March 8 quake triggered  Japan ’s worst postwar disaster,
prompting analysts to ask Man Group executives that month how
successful they thought the Nomura fund would be and if it
should be delayed. The “difficult backdrop” led to
expectations that the fund would raise about $500 million,
Michael Sanderson, an analyst at Evolution Securities in London,
wrote in a note to investors today.  “The size of the launch is well ahead of expectations,”
Sanderson, who has a “buy” rating on Man Group, wrote in the
note. “The announcement is a positive story for a stock that
has had limited such surprises in the last two years.”  Man Group rose 3.3 percent to 258 pence at 10:09 a.m. in
London. The shares have gained 6 percent over the past year.  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) , Japan’s largest brokerage, sold the
Man Group fund to its private-banking clients. The product is
available in three currency classes: the Japanese yen, a basket
that includes the Australian dollar and the Brazilian real, and
a basket that includes the Chinese yuan.  Japanese investors account for about 15 percent of Man
Group’s total hedge-fund business.  AHL, which relies on computers to try to spot profitable
trends in futures prices of currencies and commodities, has
fallen 2 percent this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. AHL gained 17 percent last year after falling 17
percent in 2009.  Man Group last year acquired London-based GLG Partners
Inc., which runs hedge funds managed by individuals that buy and
sell stocks and bonds to reduce its reliance on AHL.  To contact the reporter on this story:
in  London  at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  