-- 
MAN SE Profit Rises as European, Brazilian Truck Demand Gains

-- B y   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 
2011-05-03T08:42:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/man-se-profit-rises-as-european-brazilian-truck-demand-gains.html
MAN SE (MAN) , Europe’s third-largest
truckmaker, said first-quarter operating profit more than
doubled on higher demand from freight transporters and
construction companies.  Earnings before interest and tax gained to 325 million
euros ($482 million) from 128 million euros a year earlier,
Munich, Germany-based MAN said today in a statement. Sales
climbed 19 percent to 3.7 billion euros.  MAN expects 2011 revenue to advance from 7 percent to 10
percent and forecast the operating margin this year will rise by
at least one percentage point, the company reiterated.  MAN,  Volvo AB (VOLVB)  and  Scania AB (SCVB)  reported higher earnings as
demand for heavy trucks in Europe,  North America  and  Brazil 
recovers following the global financial crisis. March sales of
trucks weighing 16 metric tons or more surged 58 percent in
 Europe , the strongest monthly demand in more than two years, the
European Automobile Manufacturers’ Association said April 27.  MAN, which is expanding beyond its European base, will
start producing trucks in China with partner Sinotruk Hong Kong
Ltd. this year. MAN aims to sell the new line of vehicles in
China and other Asian markets and targets 200,000 deliveries a
year by 2018. The German truckmaker said last month that it will
spend 25 million euros to set up its first Russian plant. The
goal is to make about 6,000 trucks per year at the site.  Inflation Risk  MAN is looking at the risk of accelerating inflation in
Europe, Brazil and  China , with prices a concern in all markets,
Chief Financial Officer Frank Lutz said today in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s On the Move with Francine Lacqua.  The value of Brazil’s real is also a potential challenge,
Lutz said. The euro has gained 5.8 percent against the real
since the beginning of the year, according to Bloomberg data.  MAN fell as much as 1.32 euros, or 1.4 percent, to 92.60
euros and was down 0.9 percent to 93.10 euros as of 10:35 a.m.
in Frankfurt trading. The shares have gained 4.6 percent this
year, valuing the truckmaker at 13.5 billion euros.  First-quarter net income soared to 565 million euros from
49 million euros a year earlier, boosted by a “remeasurement”
of MAN’s holding in Scania. Orders advanced 26 percent to 3.5
billion euros.  “MAN’s truck business and orders are benefiting from
expanding markets in Europe and Brazil,”  Daniel Schwarz , a
Frankfurt-based Commerzbank AG analyst who recommends buying the
stock, said before results were published. “They’re taking
steps to improve their footing in Russia and China too.”  Scania Combination  MAN has been working on a combination with Soedertaelje-
based Scania since the German company’s hostile bid for the
Swedish competitor failed in 2007. The Munich-based truckmaker
sold a 70 percent stake in the Ferrostaal factory-building
venture to International Petroleum Investment Co. in 2008 to
focus on trucks,  diesel engines  and turbo machinery.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , Europe’s largest carmaker, which controls
29.9 percent of MAN and 71 percent of Scania’s voting rights,
has said it won’t move forward with plans to merge the two
companies as long as bribery investigations at MAN’s former
Ferrostaal unit aren’t resolved.  Munich prosecutors have been probing Ferrostaal since 2009
to determine whether it bribed officials for contracts including
submarine orders in southern Europe. IPIC has insisted MAN take
responsibility for the bribery costs and said April 28 it’s
seeking a “quick and amicable solution” with the German
truckmaker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andreas Cremer in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  