-- 
Anadarko Exceeds Profit Estimates on Record Petroleum Sales

-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 
2011-05-03T04:01:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/anadarko-exceeds-profit-estimates-on-record-petroleum-sales.html
Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) , the Texas
oil company that owns a stake in  BP Plc (BP/) ’s damaged Macondo well
in the  Gulf of Mexico , reported a first-quarter profit yesterday
that surpassed analysts’ estimates on record sales volumes.  The company has forged ahead with projects onshore U.S. and
off the coast of  Africa  as drilling in the Gulf slowed following
the Macondo explosion in April 2010. BP is seeking billions of
dollars from Anadarko in spill-related costs and has started a
dispute resolution process to collect.  Anadarko, which has blamed BP for the Gulf explosion and
the record offshore U.S.  oil spill  that followed, said first-
quarter sales volumes climbed to the equivalent of 690,000
barrels of oil a day from 686,000 a year earlier. Total sales of
62 million barrels for the quarter were at the top end of the
company’s forecast.  “Anadarko was probably among the worst affected by Macondo
in terms of having an active area of operation slowed down,”
said Philip Dodge, an analyst at Tuohy Brothers in  New York .
“In spite of that, they turned on enough things in other areas
to do better than people expected.”  Net income fell 70 percent to $216 million, or 43 cents a
share, from $716 million, or $1.43, a year earlier, when energy
futures contracts boosted earnings, The Woodlands, Texas-based
company said in a statement yesterday. Excluding such items as
hedging losses, profit in the quarter was 72 cents a share, 14
cents higher than the average of 29 analysts’ estimates compiled
by Bloomberg.  Revenue in the first quarter rose 3.6 percent from a year
earlier to $3.25 billion.  Jubilee Project  Anadarko’s stock, through yesterday’s close at $80.35, had
climbed 8.7 percent since April 20, 2010. That marks a comeback
from a drop to less than $35 a share during June 2010 as worries
swirled because the Macondo well continued to gush oil.  The company has a 25 percent stake in the Macondo well. BP,
the operator, has a 65 percent interest. A unit of Mitsui Oil
Exploration Co., which is 70 percent-owned by  Japan ’s Mitsui &
Co., has the other 10 percent.  The Anadarko decline turned out to be an overreaction, said
Jeb Armstrong, an analyst at Credit Agricole Securities USA in
New York who has a “buy” rating on Anadarko shares and owns
none.  “The success the company has had over the last year I
think is indicative of the value that the company brings to the
table,” he said.  Yesterday, Anadarko said the Jubilee project in which it’s
a partner off the coast of  Ghana  has a gross output of more than
70,000 barrels a day, heading to 120,000 barrels a day that’s
expected by the third quarter.  Eagle Ford  In onshore plays in  North America , Anadarko said average
sales volumes rose 30 percent from the fourth quarter in the
Eagle Ford shale formation, while the increase was 82 percent in
the Marcellus region.  Anadarko and a Mitsui-affiliated company sued BP last
month over economic losses from Macondo and the related oil
spill. The companies claimed BP broke its partnership agreement
and asked a federal judge to declare they aren’t responsible for
damages and cleanup costs.  BP, based in  London , has said it expects its minority
partners in the damaged well to pay their share of billions of
dollars in costs. BP asked a judge to put the lawsuits on hold,
saying a joint-operating agreement requires the parties to first
attempt dispute resolution through arbitration.  Macondo Invoice  Anadarko, in a regulatory filing yesterday, said BP has
invoiced the company $4.7 billion for spill-related costs. The
company also said it has received a notice of dispute from BP
requesting payment of all invoices related to the Gulf disaster.  The notice will lead to representatives of the parties
meeting with each other, according to Anadarko. If the dispute
isn’t resolved within certain time periods that total 190 days,
Anadarko said, any party can initiate arbitration proceedings
under their operating agreement.  Dodge, the Tuohy Brothers analyst, said issues may pop up
for Anadarko as the Macondo dispute lingers.  “That market is certainly saying that we shouldn’t worry
too much about it, but what I think is that every six, 12 months
another shoe is going to drop,” he said.  (Anadarko will hold an earnings conference call for
investors and analysts today at 10 a.m. New York time. To listen,
go to  http://www.anadarko.com .)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 