-- 
Hong Kong Stocks Retreat for a Fifth Day After India Boosts Interest Rates

-- B y   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n
-- 
2011-05-03T09:06:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/hang-seng-index-advances-for-the-first-time-in-five-days-cnooc-gains.html
Hong Kong stocks retreated for a fifth
day, the longest stretch since August, after  India ’s central
bank raised  interest rates  more than estimated, spurring concern
that higher borrowing costs globally may slow growth. 
 Foxconn International Holdings Ltd. (2038) , Li & Fung Ltd. and China
Merchants Holdings International Co. led declines in the  Hang
Seng Index. (HSI)   China Resources  Power Holdings Co. jumped 5.3
percent after a unit of the utility said it will develop wind
farms in Inner Mongolia.  “The rate increase in India just reminds people that rates
are going up,” said Sandy Mehta, the Hong Kong-based chief
investment officer for Value Investment Principals. “Oil prices
have continued to be high and interest rates are still rising.
Those are the two strong headwinds for the market.”  The Hang Seng Index fell 0.4 percent to close at 23,633.25
in Hong Kong, erasing earlier gains of as much as 0.9 percent.
The benchmark measure of Hong Kong equities, which was closed
yesterday for the Labor Day holiday, slipped 1.7 percent last
week. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of Chinese
companies’ H-shares slumped 0.8 percent to 13,106.54.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Excluding Japan Index dropped the
most in three weeks as raw material producers fell and Australia
& New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. and Hon Hai Precision Industry
Co. posted earnings that missed analysts’ estimates.  India Raises Rates  The  Reserve Bank  of India lifted the repurchase rate to
7.25 percent from 6.75 percent, according to a statement in
Mumbai today. Only seven of 25 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey had predicted the move, while the rest expected a
quarter-point increase. The central bank boosted the reverse
repurchase rate to 6.25 percent from 5.75 percent.  Oil, which touched a 2 1/2-year high yesterday, fell as
much as 89 cents to $112.63 a barrel in electronic trading on
the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  Foxconn International, the world’s largest contract maker
of mobile phones, sank 3.9 percent to HK$4.40 for the biggest
loss in a month. Taipei-based Hon Hai Precision Industry Co.,
which owns more than 70 percent of Foxconn, posted a second
consecutive quarter of declining profit, missing analysts’
estimates.  Li & Fung, the biggest supplier of clothes and toys to
retailers including Wal-Mart Stores Inc., fell 3.4 percent to
HK$38.35. China Merchants, which invests in ports, dropped 2.1
percent to HK$35.  Mongolian Wind Farms  PetroChina Co.,  Asia ’s biggest company by market value,
slumped 1.4 percent to HK$11 after Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
added it to a sell list.  China Resources rallied 6.3 percent to HK$15.20. China
Resources New Energy Group Co., a unit of the company, has
agreed with the local government of Tongliao to build wind farms
that can produce 300 megawatts of electricity in eastern Inner
Mongolia, Tongliao’s government said in a statement.  Shanghai Pharmaceuticals Holding Co. plans to sell shares
in a Hong Kong public offering at HK$21.80 to HK$26 apiece,
according to terms sent to investors. The company will sell $550
million of shares to key investors, including Temasek Holdings
Pte., according to the document. The stock was suspended from
trading today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Thomasson in  Hong Kong  at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John McCluskey  at 
 j.mccluskey@bloomberg.net . 