-- 
NFL Appeal of Lockout-Lifting Order to Get Expedited Review

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-05-03T21:01:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/appeals-court-hearing-nfl-s-lockout-case-grants-expedited-review-to-june-3.html
A  National Football League  challenge
to a federal judge’s order directing the league to end its
player lockout will be given expedited review by a U.S. appeals
court.  The St. Louis-based Court of Appeals today scheduled a June
3 hearing for arguments from players’ and owners’ lawyers on
whether the April 25 order by U.S. District Judge Susan Richard Nelson can stand.  NFL team owners maintain that Nelson, who is hearing the
case in  St. Paul , Minnesota, doesn’t have jurisdiction to end
the lockout and that the matter should be before the  National
Labor Relations Board .  Ten players, led by NFL championship-winning quarterbacks
 Tom Brady , Drew Brees and  Peyton Manning , sued the New York-
based league on March 11, accusing it of anticompetitive
practices that violate U.S. antitrust law.  They filed suit after collective bargaining talks
collapsed and the National Football League Players Association
announced it would no longer function as a union. The owner-
imposed lockout took effect the next day.  Oral argument before the appeals court will be held in  St.
Louis . Owners’ briefs are due on May 9, players’ responses by
May 20 and the NFL’s reply on May 26.  The appellate court hasn’t yet ruled on league owners’
request to put Nelson’s ruling on hold while the appeal is
pending. On April 29, it granted an interim order allowing
owners to reimpose the lockout while the panel considers a stay
pending appeal.  The case is Brady v. NFL, 0:11-cv-00639, U.S. District
Court, District of Minnesota (St. Paul). The appeal is Brady v.
National Football League, 11-1898, 8th U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals (St. Louis).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  