-- 
Marchionne Wins Italian Worker Concessions to Build Maserati Luxury Sedan

-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 
2011-05-04T11:18:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/marchionne-wins-italian-worker-concessions-to-build-maserati-luxury-sedan.html
Fiat SpA (F)  Chief Executive Officer
 Sergio Marchionne  won concessions from workers in exchange for a
500 million-euro ($742 million) investment to make a new
Maserati-brand luxury sedan at its plant in Grugliasco, Italy.  A program of increased work shifts and shorter breaks won
approval from 88 percent of the 1,011 workers taking part in the
ballot, the Fismic union said late yesterday. The workforce at
the plant, which Fiat bought from bankrupt car-design company
Bertone in 2009, totals about 1,100.  The labor agreement is the third in less than a year that
Marchionne has reached as part of his strategy of raising
productivity at Turin, Italy-based Fiat’s domestic plants. The
program received a bigger majority vote at Grugliasco than at
the other factories after Fiom, the carmaker’s largest union and
the concessions’ main opponent, told the plants’ workers to
approve the plan to preserve their jobs.  “Unions finally understood that it’s necessary to change
the rules of the game to be competitive,” said Giuliano Noci, a
professor at the MIP Management School of Milan’s polytechnic
university. “This could become an iconic moment for the revamp
of Fiat’s production in  Italy .”  Fiat traded down 0.7 percent to 7.28 euros as of 1:15 p.m.
in Milan, erasing earlier gains of as much as 1.8 percent. The
stock has risen 8.7 percent this year, valuing the company at
about 9 billion euros.  Productivity Comparisons  The capacity utilization of Fiat’s Italian plants was  37
percent in 2010 , compared with 78 percent at its other European
factories, according to a Jan. 27 presentation posted on Fiat’s
website.  “We took important steps toward achieving the greatest
operating flexibility possible for our plants and securing their
future” with the new labor agreements in 2010, Marchionne told
shareholders at Fiat’s annual meeting March 30 in Turin.  The carmaker’s 22,000 factory workers in Italy assembled
650,000 cars in 2009, compared with the 6,100 employees at its
plant in Tychy,  Poland , who  built  600,000 vehicles. Without
taking into account differences in models or working hours, that
means productivity averaged 30 cars a year per Fiat employee in
Italy, compared with almost 100 in Poland.  Fiat is the biggest manufacturer in Italy, where
competitiveness has waned in the last decade compared with
 Europe ’s other large economies. Productivity, a measure of
employee output per hour, rose 0.5 percent in Italy from 2000
through 2008, lagging behind a gain exceeding 10 percent in
 Germany , according to the European Union’s statistics office.  Maserati Model  Fiat, which owns 30 percent of Chrysler Group LLC and runs
the U.S. automaker, said in February it wants to start building
the full-sized Maserati at Grugliasco in December 2012.  The labor agreements at all three plants include measures
to limit strikes, curtail absenteeism and operate the factories
on a six-day workweek. Marchionne has threatened to move
production abroad if employees don’t accept the new conditions.  “Marchionne highlighted a real issue, the productivity gap
Italy has,” Noci said. “We have to consider which role the
country should have in the Fiat and Chrysler group. I think
Italy should aim to become the hub for developing new products,
more than assembling cars.”  About 54 percent of workers at Fiat’s factory in Turin’s
Mirafiori district approved the concessions in January in
exchange for a 1 billion-euro investment. The program received
63 percent support in June from workers at Fiat’s plant in
Pomigliano, near the southern city of Naples.  Union Suit  The Mirafiori plant is Fiat’s oldest while the Pomigliano
site is the least productive of its established factories. The
Grugliasco plant hasn’t been operating since Fiat acquired it.  Fiom, which represents about 10,000 of the carmaker’s
83,000 workers in Italy, sued Fiat in April at a court in Turin
to challenge the labor agreement terms.  The union’s advice that employees at Grugliasco vote in
favor of the concessions, even as Fiom still opposes the
program, was “an act of legitimate defense of the workers,”
said Maurizio Landini, the union’s chief.  “They were under a dual blackmail, as Fiat was threatening
to halt the investment and give back the plant to the bankruptcy
administrator, which would have meant firing all the workers,”
Landini said  Fiom has called a general strike for May 6 to protest
“Marchionne’s authoritarian model.” The union’s lawsuit
against Fiat is part of an effort to nullify the carmaker’s move
to create new companies to manage factories. Fiom says the
strategy is anti-labor.  Fiat returned to profit in 2010, posting net income of 520
million euros compared with a year-earlier loss of 838 million
euros. Marchionne has said repeatedly that Fiat’s Italian
operations didn’t contribute anything to profit. At the same
time, the manufacturer has a budget to invest 20 billion euros
in its home country, which remains its biggest market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  