-- 
Harper Conservatives Win Majority for First Time in Canada Vote

-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-05-03T05:07:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/harper-s-conservatives-to-win-canadian-election-ctv-television-projects.html
Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper
won a majority of seats in Parliament for the first time, giving
him a mandate to fund corporate and personal income tax cuts
with curbs on spending.  Harper’s Conservatives were ahead or leading in 166
districts, according to preliminary results from Elections
 Canada . Jack Layton’s New  Democratic Party  was leading in 103
seats and will form the official opposition for the first time,
followed by 34 for the  Liberal Party  led by  Michael Ignatieff .
The separatist Bloc Quebecois led in four seats with the  Green
Party  ahead in one. The Conservatives held 143 seats in the 308-
seat legislature before the vote was called in March.  The victory in the national election yesterday ends seven
years of minority governments that have fueled  government
spending , and may make it easier for Harper to open up
industries to foreign investment. Throughout the campaign,
Harper said he needed a majority to secure the country’s
economic recovery.  “Finally, we are getting majority government,” said Hosen Marjaee, senior managing director at Manulife Asset Management
in Toronto, which oversees about C$16 billion ($16.9 billion) in
fixed-income assets. “We have a government for four or five
years and stability,” he said. “It will be good as far as the
corporate environment is concerned.”  Harper, 52, has governed since 2006 with a minority of
seats, meaning he’s had to rely on support from opposition
lawmakers to pass laws.  Dollar Rises  The Canadian dollar rose 0.6 percent to 94.61 cents versus
the  U.S. dollar  at 1 a.m. in Toronto, from 95.17 cents
yesterday. It had fallen against all Group of Seven currencies
over the past month except the U.S. dollar, as support for the
pro-labor NDP surged and raised concern the party may end up
with a share of power, or create gridlock for a Conservative
minority government.  Dean Popplewell , an analyst in Toronto at the online
currency-trading firm Oanda Corp, says the currency could gain
at least one cent against its U.S. namesake today.  “If they are in control of the rudder,” the Canadian
currency “is going to take off,” Popplewell said of the
Conservatives.  Flaherty, Clement Win  Harper was set for re-election in his district, as were
Finance Minister Jim Flaherty and Industry Minister Tony Clement. Foreign Minister Lawrence Cannon was likely defeated,
CTV said. Liberal Leader Ignatieff and  Bloc Quebecois  leader
Gilles Duceppe were trailing in their districts according to
Elections Canada’s partial results.  Harper’s victory, along with his party’s control of the
Senate, puts the Conservatives in firm control of the federal
agenda for the first time since the early 1990s, when the
party’s predecessor -- the Progressive Conservatives -- held
majorities in both chambers of Parliament.  Harper has chosen a more incremental approach even as he
faces daunting challenges: a weakening U.S. economy and
strengthening dollar that threatens exporters, an aging
workforce that will put pressure on government finances and slow
growth, and emerging disparities between energy-rich provinces
such as Alberta and manufacturing-heavy eastern regions such as
Ontario.  Government program spending has increased 59 percent since
2004 and the  Bank of Canada  has reduced its estimate of
potential output by about one percentage point to 2 percent over
that time.  Tax Cuts  Harper’s first five years in power were marked by
reductions in the federal  sales tax  that were widely panned by
economists, and aggressive reductions in corporate income taxes
that rival parties like the Liberals and NDP had pledged to
reverse. Canada cut the federal corporate income tax rate by 1.5
percentage points to 16.5 percent on Jan. 1, and it will fall to
15 percent in 2012 under legislation passed in 2007.  Royal Bank of Canada (RY) , Bank of Nova Scotia, Suncor Energy
Inc. and  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  -- which reported paying a combined
C$6.4 billion income taxes over the past 12 months according to
data compiled by Bloomberg -- may be among the biggest
beneficiaries of the reductions.  Canada’s benchmark S&P/Toronto Stock Exchange Composite
Index has fallen 1.4 percent over the past month, while Canadian
 government bonds  have underperformed debt of Group of Seven
nations.  ‘Investors Appreciate’  “The fact that he will pass the tax cuts for corporations,
that’s something investors appreciate,” Charles St-Arnaud,
Canadian economist and foreign exchange strategist at Nomura
Securities International in  New York , said in a telephone
interview.  Among Harper’s first tasks will be to pass the  2011 fiscal
plan , which didn’t pass Parliament before elections were called.
During the campaign, Harper pledged a review of government
operations to find C$4 billion in annual savings that he
promised will be used to balance the budget by 2014, help to
fund already legislated corporate tax cuts and finance C$6.6
billion in new election pledges that include a  tax cut  for
families.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at   targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 