-- 
Harper Wins Clear Path to Tax, Spending Cuts as Canadians Deliver Majority

-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-05-03T14:27:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/harper-wins-clear-path-to-tax-spending-cuts-as-canadians-deliver-majority.html
Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper
won a majority of seats in Parliament for the first time, giving
his  Conservative Party  a mandate to bolster the economic
recovery with additional tax cuts and erase the country’s
deficit with curbs on  government spending .  Harper’s party won 167 of 308 districts, according to
results posted on Election Canada’s website as of 10:09 a.m. New
York time.  Jack Layton ’s pro-labor New  Democratic Party  won 102
seats to form the official opposition, followed by 34 for the
 Liberal Party  led by  Michael Ignatieff , four for the Bloc
Quebecois and one for the  Green Party .  The victory ends seven years of  minority governments  that
have fueled government spending, and puts the Conservatives in
control of the federal agenda for the first time since the early
1990s. Harper pledged to balance  Canada ’s budget by 2014 after
running record deficits during the recession, even as he moves
ahead with personal and corporate income tax cuts to help
sustain the expansion.  “Having a majority government that can pass a coherent
plan is very reassuring to the market,” said Paul Ma, who
manages about C$500 million ($528 million) at McLean & Partners
in Calgary. “It’s great for investors.”  The Canadian dollar rose as much as 0.5 percent following
the elections before paring gains on falling prices for crude
oil. The currency declined 0.13 percent to 95.18 cents per U.S.
dollar at 10:12 a.m. in Toronto, from 95.06 cents yesterday. The
loonie had fallen against all Group of Seven currencies over the
past month except the  U.S. dollar , as support for the NDP
surged, raising concern that party may have ended up with a
share of power, or created gridlock for a Conservative minority
government.  Political Landscape  The election produced the biggest change in the political
landscape since 1993. The rise in support for the NDP, a party
with socialist roots, was unprecedented as it had never fared
better than third in national elections. The Liberals, which
governed for most of the past century, lost 43 seats and its 19
percent share of the national vote was the party’s lowest since
the country was formed in 1867. Ignatieff, 63, who failed to win
re-election in his own Toronto district, told reporters today he
planned to step down as party leader.  The election also marked the worst performance by the
separatist  Bloc Quebecois  since that party was founded in the
early 1990s. The party’s four seats are down from 49 in the 2008
election. Leader  Gilles Duceppe  lost in his district and will
step down.  Canada’s Green Party scored its first ever federal election
victory, with leader Elizabeth May winning her constituency in
British Columbia.  Opposition Lawmakers  Harper, 52, had governed since 2006 with a minority of
seats, meaning he’s had to rely on support from opposition
lawmakers to pass laws and implement his  fiscal plans . He
campaigned on a plea to voters for a majority to end the string
of elections that he said were threatening the country’s ability
to recover from recession. Canada has had four elections in the
past seven years.  “Canadians can now turn the page on the uncertainties and
repeat elections of the past seven years and focus on building a
great future for all of us,” Harper told his supporters during
his victory speech in Calgary.  Under Harper, program expenditures have increased by 40
percent to C$245 billion as the Conservative leader sought to
placate opposition parties and win favor with voters.  The Conservative leader has also refrained from lifting
barriers to foreign investment, among the most restrictive in
the industrialized world, even after pledging in 2008 to open up
the country’s phone market to more competition.  Potash Deal  Facing calls from opposition parties for more restrictions
on foreign investment, Harper became the first Canadian leader
in more than two decades to reject foreign takeovers, including
 BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s $40 billion hostile bid for Potash Corp. of
Saskatchewan Inc. last year. He’s implemented tax credits and
deductions targeted at families, small businesses and the self-
employed.  A majority is “good for the country,” said  James Cole ,
who oversees about C$800 million as a  money manager  at Portland
Investment Counsel Inc. in Calgary. “A majority of any party
would be better than the succession of minorities that we’ve
had, which has degenerated into the worst of the U.S.-style
having-to-buy-off-everyone politics with every vote at the
taxpayers’ expense.”  One outcome of Harper’s victory is that planned corporate
income tax cuts will move ahead. Canada reduced the federal rate
by 1.5 percentage points to 16.5 percent on Jan. 1, and it will
fall to 15 percent in 2012 under legislation passed in 2007.  Business Taxes  Royal Bank of Canada (RY) , Bank of Nova Scotia, Suncor Energy
Inc. and  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  -- which reported paying a combined
C$6.4 billion income taxes over the past 12 months according to
data compiled by Bloomberg -- may be among the biggest
beneficiaries of the reductions.  Both the NDP and the Liberals had pledged to raise
corporate taxes to fund new social spending.  A Harper majority also means the country’s oil companies
will have an advocate in Ottawa, after the Liberals and the NDP
pledged to eliminate tax breaks and subsidies for the industry.  Canada is relying on business investment to help lead the
recovery. Energy companies have been a main driver of spending,
allowing the country to grow in the fourth quarter at a faster
pace than any other Group of Seven country. Canada also has the
lowest deficit in the G-7 and commodity sales have made its
currency the strongest in the group over the past two years.  ‘Under the Bus’  Canadian publicly traded oil and gas companies spent C$17.4
billion on investment in the latest quarterly filings, up from
C$12.4 billion from the same quarter a year earlier.  Internationally, Harper has promoted Canada as an “energy
superpower,” pointing to its political stability in a bid to
fend off concerns in the U.S. about the environmental impact of
the  oil sands . The country sits on the largest pool of oil
reserves outside the Middle East, mostly in the province of
 Alberta .  “The big one that was at risk was the  energy industry ,
where the Liberals and NDP were quite prepared to throw Alberta
under the bus,” Cole said. “There was a lot at stake.”  Among Harper’s first tasks will be to pass the  2011 fiscal
plan , which didn’t pass Parliament before elections were called.
During the campaign, Harper pledged a review of government
operations to find C$4 billion in annual savings that he
promised will be used to balance the budget by 2014, help to
fund already legislated corporate tax cuts and finance C$6.6
billion in new election pledges that include a  tax cut  for
families.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at   targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 