-- 
Las Vegas Sands 1Q Profit Surges, Misses Analyst Estimates

-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 
2011-05-04T00:00:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/las-vegas-sands-misses-estimates-as-table-winnings-fall-short-on-strip.html
Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS) , the U.S. casino
company expanding in  Asia , reported first-quarter sales and
profit rose less than analysts’ estimates on lower winnings from
table games in Nevada. The shares fell in late trading.  Net income climbed to $289.3 million, or 28 cents a share,
from $17.6 million, or a loss of 4 cents a year earlier after
preferred dividends,  Las Vegas  Sands said today in a statement.
Profit excluding items was 37 cents, less than the 44-cent
average estimate of 22 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  A low hold at Las Vegas table games hit cash flow, the
company said. Sales jumped 58 percent to $2.11 billion,
reflecting the opening of the $5.5 billion Marina Bay Sands
casino resort in  Singapore  starting in April 2010. Analysts had
projected sales of $2.14 billion, the average of 18 estimates.  Las Vegas Sands fell 9.6 percent to $41.45 in extended
trading after the release. The stock declined $1.64 to $45.87 at
4:02 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Hong
Kong-listed unit  Sands China Ltd. (1928)  rose 60 Hong Kong cents, or
2.8 percent, to HK$22.40 at the close in Hong Kong trading,
before the announcement.  Cash flow, measured as adjusted property earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or Ebitda,
doubled to $745.7 million, beating analysts’ projections of
$743.9 million for the quarter. Annual Ebitda will exceed $3
billion this year, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Sheldon Adelson  said today on a conference call.  $3 Billion Mark  “We feel quite confident that the $3 billion mark will be
breached, we’ll expect to go somewhat over that,” said Adelson,
who also founded the company. “One month of low hold doesn’t
make a year.”  Las Vegas Sands’ Venetian and Palazzo resorts on the  Las
Vegas Strip  reported Ebitda fell 40 percent to $65.2 million on
lower winnings from table games. Las Vegas is staging an uneven
recovery from a record two-year drop.  Singapore cash flow was $284.5 million in the quarter.
Singapore allowed just two casinos, which Las Vegas Sands and
Malaysian rival  Genting Bhd. (GENT)  opened last year.  “Think about having the entire Las Vegas Strip resident in
two casinos and we split that up,” Adelson said about
Singapore’s growth potential. “We made a billion (Ebitda) while
we still weren’t ramped up. There isn’t anything in the future
that anybody can see that will cause a diminution of this rate
of growth.”  Macau Cash Flow  The company’s Macau cash flow gained 46 percent to $378.6
million. Macau, the only place in  China  where casinos are legal,
saw total gambling revenue  surge  58 percent last year and 43
percent in the first quarter.  Adelson restarted the Las Vegas-based company’s mothballed
expansion in Macau, China, the world’s biggest casino center,
with total gambling revenue about four times that of the Las
Vegas Strip.  Sands’ Macau expansion is about five weeks behind schedule
because of a shortage of workers, Las Vegas Sands Chief
Operating Officer Michael Leven said on today’s call. The
company is in the “final stages” of negotiating with
international hotel brands for two of the hotel towers being
built on the Cotai site, Leven said.  Gambling in the Chinese city has surged since the
government ended billionaire  Stanley Ho ’s 40-year monopoly and
allowed six companies including Las Vegas Sands,  Wynn Resorts
Ltd. (WYNN) , and  MGM Resorts International (MGM)  to build resorts, attracting
more gamblers from the mainland.  Sands’ hotel at its Pennsylvania casino is scheduled to
open at the end of this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  