-- 
Asia Commodity Day Ahead: Commodities Sink Most Since 2009

-- B y   D a n i e l   E n o c h
-- 
2011-05-05T22:33:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/asia-commodity-day-ahead-silver-futures-tumble-in-new-york.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  
TOP STORY:  Commodities Plunge Most in Two Years on Speculation of Slowdown  Commodities dropped the most in than two years, paring this
year’s gains to 8.2 percent, on concern that economic growth
will slow as central banks seek to cool inflation by raising
borrowing costs.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Silver Investors Dump Bets After Exchange Boosts Margins 84% (1)  The biggest slump for silver since 1983 may not be over as
the Comex exchange in  New York  makes it 84 percent more
expensive for speculators to trade the metal, triggering an exit
by investors.  Ralcorp Investor Expects ConAgra to Succeed With Higher Bid (1)  Ralcorp Holdings Inc. investor Jack Murphy says he expects
the biggest U.S. maker of store-brand foods to consent to a
takeover if spurned suitor ConAgra Foods Inc. boosts its bid at
least 7 percent.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper Tumbles Below $4 a Pound for First Time in Five Months  Copper closed below $4 a pound for the first time in five
months in New York on concern that demand will ebb as countries
around the world raise interest rates to curb inflation.  Vedanta Slumps to Five-Month Low on Secondary Offer Comment (2)  Vedanta Resources Plc, an aluminum and copper producer in
India, plunged to a five-month low in  London  trading after
saying it plans to sell shares to part-fund its proposed
purchase of Cairn India Ltd.  MINING:  U.S. Rare-Earth Stockpiles to Tighten Supply, Molycorp Says (1)  The creation of U.S. government stockpiles of rare-earth
minerals would worsen a tight supply situation, said Molycorp
Inc., the country’s only producer of the minerals used in
missiles,  wind turbines  and hybrid cars.  Harmony Gold Production Falls 10%; Set to Miss 2011 Target (1)  Harmony Gold Mining Ltd., Africa’s third-largest miner of
the metal, reported production in the first nine months of the
fiscal year dropped 10 percent from a year earlier and forecast
lower annual output than planned.  Randgold Quarterly Profit Doubles; Full-Year Output to Gain (3)  Randgold Resources Ltd., a miner of the metal in West
 Africa , said first-quarter profit more than doubled as prices
climbed to a record, while full-year output will be at the upper
end of its range of estimates.  Coal Two-Year High May Spur  China  Import Rebound: Energy Markets  China’s highest power-station coal prices in more than two
years may prompt a rebound in imports as Australian and
Indonesian supplies become more attractive and inventories drop
to “crisis” levels.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Silver Extends Biggest Slump Since 1983 as Margins Increase 84%  Silver futures fell, extending the biggest plunge since
March 1983, after CME Group Ltd. raised margin requirements for
new speculative positions by 84 percent in less than two weeks.
Gold fell for the third straight day.  ‘Elephants’ Contribute to Slump in Silver Prices, Gartman Says  Fund managers are getting more sell signals in silver as
“elephants” contribute to the metal’s bear-market slump, said
economist  Dennis Gartman .  AGRICULTURE:  Cattle Fall to Four-Month Low on Weaker Beef Demand; Hogs Rally  Cattle futures dropped to the lowest price since January on
speculation that U.S. demand for beef is slowing as high energy
costs erode  consumer spending . Hogs gained.  Grains, Soybeans Plunge on Signs World Commodity Demand to Slow  Rice futures tumbled the exchange limit in  Chicago  and
corn, wheat and soybeans fell to the lowest in at least a month
as the dollar jumped, reducing the appeal of commodities as
alternative investments.  Kansas  Wheat-Yield Outlook Down From 2010, Tour Sampling Shows  The winter-wheat crop in Kansas and parts of Oklahoma and
 Nebraska  may yield less than last year, based on a three-day
inspection of fields.  Cocoa Stockpiles With Valid Grading Fall 1.6%, Liffe Report Says  Cocoa inventories with a valid grading certificate in
European warehouses monitored by NYSE Liffe fell 1.6 percent in
the past two weeks.  Robusta Coffee Stockpiles Rise 3.8% in Two Weeks, Report Shows  Robusta coffee inventories with valid grading certificates
stood at 302,490 metric tons as of May 2, up 3.8 percent from
two weeks earlier, according to figures on NYSE Liffe’s website
today.  Cotton Slumps on Interest-Rate Concern;  Orange Juice  Declines  Cotton slumped to the lowest in more than three months on
concern that demand may weaken as rising global  interest rates 
slow growth. Orange juice also dropped.  SHIPPING:  OPEC to Make First Export Boost in 3 Months, Oil Movements Says  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will
increase exports for the first time since February as refiners
prepare to meet peak summer demand for driving fuels, according
to tanker-tracker Oil Movements.  Baltic Dry Index Rises 0.9% to 1,314 Points in London  The Baltic Dry Index, a measure of commodity shipping
costs, rose 0.9 percent to 1,314 points, according to the  Baltic
Exchange  in London.  ECONOMIES:  Trichet Signals Interest Rate Move After June; Euro Plunges (3)  European Central Bank President Jean- Claude Trichet
signaled the bank will wait until after June to raise interest
rates again, wrong-footing some investors who had expected a
quicker move to fight inflation. The euro plunged.  Jobless Claims in U.S. Unexpectedly Jump on One-Time Events (2)  The number of claims for U.S. unemployment benefits
unexpectedly rose last week, pushed up by auto-plant shutdowns
and other unusual events that seasonal variations failed to take
into account, the Labor Department said.  U.S. Economy:  Consumer Confidence  Falls as Fuel Costs Rise (1)  Consumer confidence dropped last week to the lowest level
in more than a month as rising fuel costs squeezed American
household budgets.  Portugal  Wins Aid, Heightening Euro Backlash Over Bailouts (1)  Portugal won a 78 billion-euro ($116 billion) international
aid package, fanning domestic controversy over budget cuts amid
an election campaign and renewing discontent in  Europe ’s richer
countries over bailouts.  Fed’s Kocherlakota Says ‘Desirable’ to Lift Main Rate in 2011  Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis President Narayana
Kocherlakota said it would be “desirable” to lift the target
for the benchmark U.S. interest rate by a “modest amount” this
year, based on his inflation forecast.  OTHER MARKETS:  Oil Tumbles Below $100 a Barrel on Jobless Claims, Dollar Gain  Crude oil  tumbled below $100 a barrel in New York in the
biggest decline in two years as U.S. jobless claims climbed,
bolstering concern that economic growth and fuel demand will
drop.  SPORTS:  Brazil ’s Batista Is in Talks to Sell Luxury  World Cup  Tickets  IMX, a partnership of IMG Worldwide Inc. and billionaire
 Eike Batista ’s EBX Group Co. Ltd., is in talks with FIFA to sell
tickets for the 2014 World Cup and 2013 FIFA Confederations Cup
soccer tournaments in Brazil.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  