-- 
Most U.S. Stocks Retreat for 2nd Day as Silver, Oil Fall

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d
-- 
2011-05-03T20:21:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/asian-stocks-fall-most-in-three-weeks-on-earnings-yen-dollar-strengthen.html
Most U.S. stocks fell for a second day
as commodity shares slid and  Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD)  led retailers
lower after losing money in the first quarter. Silver led a drop
in commodities as higher margin requirements cut demand, and oil
fell amid forecasts that supplies climbed to a six-month high.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.3 percent to
1,356.62 at 4 p.m. in New York as Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold
Inc. and Exxon Mobil Corp. paced losses in commodity shares and
Sears sank 9.9 percent. Silver for July delivery tumbled 7.6
percent to $42.585 an ounce, the biggest drop for a most-active
contract since December 2008. Oil lost 2.2 percent to $111.05 a
barrel in New York. Ten-year Treasury yields fell two basis
points to 3.25 percent, the lowest since March 18.  Investors pared riskier assets as they assessed the
potential impact of the May 1 killing of Osama bin Laden by U.S.
forces in  Pakistan .  India ’s central bank raised  interest rates 
by a more-than-estimated 0.5 percentage point today after
forecasting inflation will stay at an “elevated level,” while
Australian policy makers kept rates on hold.  “We’re seeing a defensive move today,” said  James Paulsen , chief investment strategist at Minneapolis-based Wells
Capital Management, which oversees about $340 billion. “There’s
some fear about terrorist retaliation. Still, you just cannot
knock this thing down too much,” he said of the stock market.
“Profits have been fantastic and most economic reports tell us
there is economic momentum.”  Earnings Season  The  S&P 500  has advanced 7.9 percent this year amid
government stimulus measures and higher-than-estimated profits
and economic data. Earnings-per-share beat estimates at about
three-quarters of the 336 companies in the S&P 500 that reported
results since April 11, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The GSCI Total Return Index has beaten bonds, stocks and the
dollar every month since December, the longest rally in at least
14 years.  MasterCard Inc. (MA) , the world’s second-biggest bank-card
network, gained 2.6 percent to $282.38. Net income climbed 24
percent to $562 million, or $4.29 a share, topping the average
analyst estimate of $4.09 a share as consumers spent more.  The results helped trigger gains in other credit-card
companies. Bank of America Corp. and JPMorgan Chase & Co.
climbed at least 1.6 percent to help lead gains in the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average , which rose less than 1 point to 12,807.51.  Sears Tumbles  About five stocks retreated for every two that rose on U.S.
exchanges. The slide in Sears’s shares was the biggest in almost
a year. The department-store chain said sales at stores open at
least a year declined 3.6 percent in the quarter ended April 30,
led by a decrease in appliances. The first-quarter loss will be
$1.35 to $1.81, compared with the 3-cent profit predicted on
average by analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Stocks fell even after a U.S. government report today
showed orders placed with U.S. factories rose 3 percent in March
on increasing demand for machinery and computers, topping the
median economist estimate of 2 percent in a Bloomberg survey.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index retreated for the first
time in three days after closing yesterday at the highest level
since 2008. The gauge dropped 1.7 percent, it biggest drop since
April 12 on a closing basis. India’s Bombay Stock Exchange
Sensitive Index dropped 2.4 percent, the most in more than 10
weeks. The Reserve Bank of India’s rate decision was forecast by
seven of 25 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. Russia’s
Micex Index sank 2.9 percent and  South Korea ’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  lost
1.3 percent.  European Stocks  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index fell for the first time in nine
days, dropping 0.5 percent.  Daimler AG (DAI)  sank 1.6 percent and
 Volkswagen AG (VOW)  dropped 1.7 percent following a Financial Times
Deutschland report suggesting that tax incentives on company
cars are too lenient.  Swiss Life Holding AG (SLHN) ,  Switzerland ’s
biggest life insurer, sank 4.9 percent after first-quarter
premiums fell.  The Dollar Index, which tracks the U.S. currency against
those of six trading partners, rose 0.2 percent to 73.098. The
yen strengthened against all 16 of its most-traded counterparts
except the Swiss franc, appreciating 0.3 percent versus the euro
and the dollar. The franc strengthened against all 16.  The pound weakened versus all 16 major peers, depreciating
1.1 percent versus the euro, after the index of U.K.
manufacturing by  Markit Economics  and the  Chartered Institute of
Purchasing and Supply  unexpectedly fell in March.  Australia ’s dollar slid for the second day against the U.S.
currency, falling 0.7 percent. The  Reserve Bank  of Australia
left its benchmark interest rate unchanged today for a fifth
straight meeting, signaling a record local dollar will help
contain consumer prices until late this year.  Commodities Drop  The S&P/GSCI Total Return Index of commodities tumbled 1.5
percent, the most since April 12.  The drop in silver extended the metal’s two-day slide to 12
percent, the biggest since October 2008. Exchange owner CME
Group Inc. raised margin requirements for the second time in
less than a week. The minimum amount of cash that must be
deposited when borrowing from brokers to trade silver futures
will rise to $16,200 per contract at the close of business today
from $14,513, the exchange said. Silver has more than doubled in
the past year when margins were $4,250.  Gold declined today after yesterday climbing to a record.
Gold for June delivery lost 1.1 percent to $1,540.40 an ounce,
the biggest decline for a most-active contract since March 15.  Oil, which surged to the highest intraday price since
September 2008 yesterday, retreated today before a report
tomorrow that may show crude stockpiles climbed 2 million
barrels from 363.1 million last week, according to the median
estimate from 15 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Kirkland in  London  at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 