-- 
MasterCard Climbs as Consumer Spending Drives Profit Gain

-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 
2011-05-03T21:12:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/mastercard-posts-higher-net-income-as-card-spending-increases.html
MasterCard Inc. (MA) , the world’s second-
biggest bank-card network, climbed the most in five months after
posting a first-quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates as
consumers stepped up spending.  MasterCard rose as much as 4.2 percent in  New York  Stock
Exchange composite trading, the top performance in the 74-member
Standard & Poor’s 500 Information Technology Index. Net income
climbed 24 percent to $562 million, or $4.29 a share, the
company said today in a statement. The average estimate of 30
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was $4.09 a share.  Chief Executive Officer  Ajay Banga , 51, is buying back
shares as rising consumer spending and a continuing shift from
cash and checks to plastic spurs growth for Purchase,  New York- 
based MasterCard and larger rival  Visa Inc. (V)  Household purchases
in the U.S., which account for about 70 percent of the economy,
rose at a 2.7 percent pace in the first quarter, the Commerce
Department said last week.  “We had a strong start to 2011 despite the hardships
experienced by many consumers and businesses due to natural
disasters and political turmoil in several markets,” Banga said
in the statement.  MasterCard advanced $7.09, or 2.6 percent, to $282.38 at
4:15 p.m., and earlier touched $286.80, the biggest advance
since Dec. 1. The shares have gained 13 percent in the past
year, compared with a 10 percent decline for Visa, based in  San
Francisco . Visa, which is scheduled to report fiscal second-
quarter results on May 5, climbed 86 cents today to $80.  Net revenue at MasterCard increased 15 percent to $1.5
billion as operating expenses rose 9.4 percent to $665 million,
according to the statement. Processed transactions rose 11
percent to 5.97 billion, according to an  earnings supplement .  Unemployment, Inflation  “I still remain concerned about housing prices and
unemployment in the  United States , about food- and gas-price
inflation around the world,” Banga said in a conference call
with analysts after the company announced the results. “I
remain cautiously optimistic.”  Worldwide spending on MasterCard- and Maestro-branded cards
climbed 13 percent to $545 billion, based on local currencies,
the company said. Cross-border volumes, a measure of spending by
consumers outside their home countries, surged 19 percent.  The March 11 earthquake and tsunami in  Japan  and conflicts
in the Middle East and North Africa have caused a shift in
cross-border volume, MasterCard Chief Financial Officer Martina Hund-Mejean said today in a telephone interview.  “In Japan, inbound travel has been curtailed quite
significantly, especially in the few weeks after the
earthquake,” Hund-Mejean said. “Lots of people left Japan, so
there’s an uptick going outbound.”  Egypt, Libya  As cross-border volumes declined in Egypt, Libya and
Bahrain, they’ve climbed in  Turkey  and the  United Arab Emirates ,
Hund-Mejean said.  Visa and MasterCard are fighting proposed U.S. caps on
debit-card “swipe” fees, or interchange, amid investor concern
the rules may damage the firms’ business model. The regulation,
mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010, is weighing more on
Visa, which processed $1.05 trillion in U.S. debit-card purchase
transactions last year, more than triple MasterCard’s $333
billion, company data show.  The  Federal Reserve  has proposed capping debit interchange
at 12 cents a transaction, replacing a formula that costs
merchants an average of 1.14 percent of the purchase price, or
about 44 cents. The caps may reduce annual revenue by $12
billion at U.S. banks that issue Visa and MasterCard debit
cards, including  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   ‘Wait-and-See’  “This uncertainty has had very little impact on issuer
decisions related to their debit portfolios,” Banga said in the
conference call. “They are taking a wait-and-see attitude
before making any changes.”  MasterCard repurchased 3.9 million shares valued at $1
billion this year through April 28, including 2.6 million shares
valued at $654 million in the first quarter, according to the
statement. The company may purchase an additional $1 billion in
stock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 