-- 
Mauritius to ‘Normalize’ Interest Rates as Inflation Rises, Bheenick Says

-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 
2011-05-03T13:01:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/mauritius-to-normalize-interest-rates-as-inflation-rises-bheenick-says.html
The Bank of Mauritius will probably
raise interest rates further this year after the inflation rate
almost tripled in six months, Governor Rundheersing Bheenick
said.  “The Monetary Policy Committee was clear that we must
normalize rates” when it raised borrowing costs in March,
Bheenick said in an interview on April 30 in  Port Louis , the
capital. “We will continue the process.”  The central bank increased the key rate by half a
percentage point to 5.25 percent on March 28, six months after
slashing it by one point as the European debt crisis threatened
to undermine demand for exports. The  inflation rate  rose to 6.8
percent in February from 2.5 percent in September, before
reaching 7.2 percent in March, a 28-month high.  “Inflationary pressure is not getting out of hand,” said
Bheenick, 66, who has been central bank governor for four years.  The Treasury reduced taxes on gasoline and diesel as of
March 30 to ease pressure on inflation, while the Ministry of
Commerce and importers agreed upon a basket of foodstuff to be
sold at reduced prices.  “Expectations of inflation will be perhaps more subdued in
the light of our fairly strong action,” Bheenick said. “We are
trying everything we can to contain it below double-digit,”
with the end-of-year target at a “little above 5 to 6
percent.”  Rupee Strength  A 12.3 percent rally in the rupee against the dollar this
year has limited the pick-up in inflation, Bheenick said. The
rupee weakened by 0.7 percent to 27.4 as of 3:50 p.m. today,
according to Bloomberg data.  “The rupee’s relative stability has been one positive
development in terms of domestic inflation,” he said. “The
element of stability is totally unprecedented.”  Higher  interest rates  won’t crimp growth, which will
probably accelerate to 4.6 percent this year from 4.4 percent in
2010, Bheenick said on March 29.  As of April 8, the central bank limited commercial bank
holdings in Treasury bills and  government bonds  to 20 percent of
their lending, decreasing to 15 percent as of July 1. Following
discussions with the Mauritius Bankers’ Association on April 27,
the reduction in July was limited to 18 percent, Bheenick said.  “The direction is the same, albeit at a reduced pace,” he
said. The limits are “required to add depth to our financial
market and we see it as a major step forward. Our secondary
market basically does not exist.”  Discussions are ongoing with the Stock Exchange of
Mauritius and the Financial Services Commission for reducing
brokerage and intermediation fees, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Port Louis via Johannesburg at 
1933 or  gbell16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 