-- 
New Zealand’s Dollar Falls as Report Shows Net Migration; Aussie Weakens

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-05-04T06:22:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/australian-new-zealand-dollars-snap-two-day-slide-on-yield-advantage.html
The  New Zealand  dollar fell against
all its major counterparts after a government report showed the
nation had the biggest net outflow of residents in more than 10
years in March.  The so-called kiwi also depreciated for a third day versus
the greenback before New Zealand releases employment data for
the first quarter tomorrow. Australia’s currency declined for a
fifth day against the yen as Asian stocks dropped on concern
Chinese measures to tame inflation will damp growth in
Australia’s largest trading partner.  “New Zealand’s data today hasn’t really inspired positive
sentiment toward the kiwi dollar with fairly weak migration
numbers,” said  Mike Jones , a currency strategist at Bank of New
Zealand Ltd. in Wellington. “The employment number has been
notoriously volatile of late and people are seeing this dip in
the kiwi as an excuse to take profit.”  New Zealand’s dollar fell to 79.24 U.S. cents as of 4:15
p.m. in Sydney from 79.87 cents yesterday in  New York , when it
weakened 1 percent. The currency slid 0.8 percent to 64.11 yen,
and fell 0.6 percent to NZ$1.3666 per Australian dollar. The so-
called Aussie slipped 0.1 percent to $1.0832, and declined 0.2
percent to 87.58 yen.  Permanent migrant departures from New Zealand exceeded
arrivals by 530 in March, the most since a net 2,400 net
emigrants in February 2001, the government said. The exodus adds
evidence to the government’s outlook for little to no growth
after a magnitude 6.3 earthquake wrecked houses and closed
businesses in Christchurch on Feb. 22.  N.Z. Jobs  New Zealand’s unemployment rate was little changed at 6.7
percent in the first quarter from 6.8 percent in the previous
three months, according to a Bloomberg News survey before the
Statistics New Zealand report. The rate was 6 percent in the
first quarter of last year.  Australia ’s dollar dropped for a third day against the U.S.
currency after  China ’s central bank said in a report yesterday
that taming inflation is its highest priority.  Chinese stocks fell on concern more tightening is possible,
even after a manufacturing survey showed growth may be
moderating in Asia’s biggest economy.  “There is also increasing nervousness among investors
about what further steps China will take to control inflation,”
David Forrester, a currency economist at  Barclays Capital  in
 Singapore , wrote in a note to clients. “We are approaching a
turning point at which investors no longer think that China’s
policymakers are tightening into economic strength and,
therefore, no longer buy the Australian dollar dips.”  The MSCI  Asia  Pacific Excluding Japan Index of shares
dropped 1.5 percent, the biggest decline in three weeks. Japan’s
financial markets were shut today for a holiday.  ‘Latent Demand’  Speculation the  Reserve Bank  of Australia will raise
 interest rates  this year are supporting the Aussie dollar, said
Tony Allen, global head of foreign-exchange trading at Australia
& New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in Sydney.  There’s an 84 percent chance Governor Glenn Stevens will
raise the nation’s benchmark rate 25 basis points by December,
according to futures.  “The RBA is live and the  U.S. dollar  is still a funding
currency,” Allen said. “There’s enough latent demand for
Aussie around to keep it supported.”  Benchmark rates are 4.75 percent in Australia and 2.5
percent in New Zealand, compared with as low as zero in the U.S.
and  Japan , attracting investors to the South Pacific nations’
higher-yielding assets. The risk in such trades is that currency
market moves will erase profits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 