-- 
Australia Keeps Interest Rate at 4.75% as Record Currency Contains Prices

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-05-03T06:05:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/australia-keeps-interest-rate-at-4-75-as-record-currency-contains-prices.html
The  Reserve Bank of Australia  left its
benchmark interest rate unchanged today for a fifth straight
meeting, signaling a record local dollar will help contain
consumer prices until late this year.  “The rising exchange rate will be helping to hold down
prices for some consumer products over the coming few
quarters,” RBA Governor Glenn Stevens said in a statement today
after holding the overnight cash rate target at 4.75 percent, as
forecast by 21 of 22 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
“Over the longer term, inflation can be expected to increase
somewhat if economic conditions evolve broadly as expected.”  Australia’s currency surpassed $1.10 this week as surging
mining investment cuts the economy’s spare capacity, and Federal
Reserve policy makers said April 27 U.S. borrowing costs are
likely to stay low for “an extended period.” Reports last
month showed lending to Australian business surged and inflation
accelerated to the fastest pace since 2006.  “The currency is clearly doing some of the RBA’s work for
it,” said Su-Lin Ong, senior economist at  RBC Capital Markets 
in Sydney who predicts the central bank’s next rate increase
will be in October. “The currency is probably the most
significant development since they last met and they are aware
that it’s in unchartered territory.”  Currency’s Reaction  The Australian dollar maintained earlier declines after the
decision, trading at $1.0909 as of 3:26 p.m. in Sydney, from
$1.0921 before the statement and $1.0944 yesterday in  New York .  Stevens, the only developed-nation central banker whose
economy avoided recession as credit markets froze in 2008, has
refrained from raising borrowing costs since November after
flooding damaged crops and disrupted coal mines in Queensland
state, which supplies more than 30 percent of the nation’s fruit
and vegetables.  Today in his statement, Stevens said the resulting loss of
coal production likely “caused a decline in real gross domestic
product in the March quarter.” The first-quarter GDP report
from the Bureau of Statistics is scheduled to be released June
1.  Traders see a 34 percent chance Stevens will boost
borrowing costs by a quarter percentage point in August, bank
bill futures showed, down from 44 percent before today’s
announcement.  In the statement, Stevens said “in future meetings, the
board will continue to assess carefully the evolving outlook for
growth and inflation.”  Rate Differences  Australia ’s benchmark rate contrasts with near-zero levels
in  Japan  and the U.S., helping drive the currency to the
strongest level since it was freely floated in 1983.  The Australian dollar touched $1.1012 yesterday and an
April 27 inflation report showed prices rose 1.6 percent in the
first quarter from the previous three months and were 3.3
percent higher than a year earlier, prompting speculation the
RBA will raise rates sooner than the Fed.  The RBA aims to keep annual inflation in a range of 2
percent to 3 percent on average.  While the currency’s rise has eased the RBA’s task of
controlling inflation by reducing import costs, it has hurt some
manufacturers that sell goods abroad.  In parts of the nation’s economy, particularly urban areas
not linked to the mining boom, “people are not doing it easy,”
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. Chief Executive
Officer  Mike Smith  said in a briefing with reporters today. The
recent acceleration in inflation is a “blip” triggered by
natural disasters and the nation’s rising currency is “doing
the work of the central bank,” he said.  Mining Boom  Australia’s terms of trade, a ratio of export prices to
import prices, are at their highest level since the early 1950s.
“Australia’s terms of trade are reaching higher levels than
assumed a few months ago, and national income is growing
strongly,” Stevens said today.  Wage pressure from the  mining industry  is intensifying
inflation concerns.  Two coal-seam gas projects, expected to cost more than A$30
billion ($32.7 billion), are proceeding near the Queensland port
of Gladstone.  Santos Ltd. (STO) , Australia’s third-largest oil
producer, and BG Group Plc, the U.K.’s third-biggest gas
producer, will start hiring the first of more than 10,000
construction workers needed for the two projects this year.  ‘Strongest Signal’  “It is significant that the terms of trade are running
above what they were forecasting,” said RBC’s Ong. “At the end
of the day, that’s what’s going to drive stronger business
investment and income and employment. So I think that is your
strongest signal of a tightening bias and why you would need to
hike.”  A central bank report last week showed loans provided by
Australian banks and finance companies increased 0.6 percent in
March from the previous month, matching the biggest monthly
advance since January 2009.  Lending to companies gained 1 percent in March, the biggest
rise since October 2008 and the third straight monthly gain, it
showed. Business lending had declined for six consecutive months
through December, falls noted by the RBA in its statements.  Australia had its biggest annual increase in jobs on record
last year and employers added more workers in March than
economists forecast, lowering the jobless rate to 4.9 percent.  “Most leading indicators suggest further growth in
employment, though most likely at a slower pace than in 2010,”
Stevens said today. “Reports of skills shortages remain
confined, at this point, to the resources and related sectors.”  Wage Growth  Growth in wages has returned to levels seen prior to the
global recession, he said.  The  Reserve Bank  in February raised its forecast for 2011
growth to 4.25 percent, from a November prediction of 3.75
percent, saying flood rebuilding will accelerate in the second
half. It will update those estimates in its quarterly monetary
policy statement to be released on May 6.  Stevens boosted the benchmark lending rate by 175 basis
points from early October 2009 to November last year from a
half-century low of 3 percent during the global financial
crisis.  Treasurer  Wayne Swan  welcomed today’s decision, saying it
is “good news for the many Australian households and businesses
doing it tough in our patchwork economy, with the higher dollar
making things even tougher in some sectors.”  Swan will release the nation’s budget on May 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  