-- 
Automakers Reduce U.S. Incentives in April to Five-Year Low

-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 
2011-05-04T16:00:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/automakers-u-s-incentives-fall-14-in-april-autodata-says.html
Automakers reduced spending on
discounts and incentives for U.S. customers in April by 14
percent to an average $2,320 per vehicle, the lowest in more
than five years, as sales climbed.  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s average spending on discounts and
promotions declined 20 percent from a year earlier to $2,399,
Woodcliff Lake, New Jersey-based Autodata Corp. said yesterday.
Chrysler Group LLC lowered spending 23 percent to $2,806, and
 General Motors Co. (GM)  reduced incentives by 8.1 percent to an
estimated $3,068 per vehicle.  Automakers are likely to continue commanding higher prices
for new vehicles as production in  Japan  falls because of the
March 11 earthquake, analysts at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and
Citigroup Inc. wrote. The industry’s incentive spending in April
was the lowest since October 2005, when it was $2,204 per unit,
David Lucas, an analyst for Autodata, said in an e-mail.  “The outlook for incentives is that they are going to be
down dramatically,”  Jesse Toprak , vice president of industry
trends at TrueCar.com in  Santa Monica , California, said
yesterday in a telephone interview.  GM isn’t offering cash rebates on any 2011 models of its
Cadillac luxury brand, according to AIS Rebates, which provides
incentive data to dealers. The largest U.S. automaker won’t
offer buyers rebates on Chevrolet Cruze and Aveo small cars or
the Chevy Equinox and GMC Terrain sport-utility vehicles,
according to  Ann Arbor , Michigan-based AIS.  Toyota Cuts Spending  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  reduced spending $60, or 3.1 percent, to
an estimated $1,885 per unit in April, Autodata said. The
world’s largest automaker lowered incentives for May and will
focus deals on Tundra pickups and Camry sedans,  Bob Carter ,
Toyota’s group vice president for U.S. sales, said yesterday on
a conference call. The Toyota City, Japan-based automaker had a
47-day supply of vehicles at the start of May, he said.  Toyota is offering buyers in the Los Angeles area a $1,000
cash rebate for the Tundra and 1.9 percent financing for 60
months on Tundra and Camry, according to a May incentive program
notice sent to dealers yesterday.  GM’s inventories of the Equinox and Terrain are lower than
the company would like,  Don Johnson , vice president of U.S.
sales, said on a May 2 conference call with reporters.  GM’s Truck Discounts  GM’s truck inventory rose to more than 275,000 at the end
of April, Johnson said yesterday, from 264,000 a month earlier.
The automaker is offering rebates of as much as $4,505 for
Silverado and Sierra pickups, according to AIS.  Ford sales analyst  George Pipas  declined to provide
information on the Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker’s May
incentives.  Industrywide light-vehicle sales ran at a seasonally
adjusted annual rate of 13.2 million in April, Autodata said
yesterday, accelerating from a year earlier and exceeding the 13
million pace that was the average estimate of 12 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. The rate topped 13 million for the third
straight month as gas prices rose to the highest in almost three
years.  “April sales provided evidence that U.S. auto industry
pricing is firming nicely, likely more than offsetting mix
erosion pressures induced by high gas prices,”  Himanshu Patel ,
a New York-based analyst for JPMorgan, wrote today in a research
note.  Honda Motor Co., fourth in the U.S. sales by volume, raised
incentives to $2,171 in April, 8.7 percent more than a year
earlier, according to Autodata. Nissan Motor Co. reduced
discounts by 33 percent to $1,998.  Japan-based automakers such as Toyota, Honda and Nissan may
lose more than 200,000 new-vehicle sales this year due to
disruptions in supply related to the March earthquake, Itay Michaeli, a Citigroup analyst, wrote in a research note.  The production loss provides a $1.3 billion profit
opportunity based on market share, excluding the expectation
that pricing will continue to improve, said Michaeli, who’s
based in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  