-- 
Bahrain Court Charges Medical Staff With Trying to Topple Regime

-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 
2011-05-03T14:35:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/bahrain-court-charges-medical-staff-with-trying-to-topple-regime.html
Bahrain military prosecutors charged
47 medical staff who treated wounded people during pro-democracy
rallies earlier this year with trying to overthrow the regime.  Charges against 24 doctors and 23 nurses and paramedics
included inciting “the forceful overthrow of a political
regime” and “hatred of the regime,” the country’s  Information
Affairs Authority  said in an e-mailed statement today. They were
accused of “dissemination of false news and malicious rumors.”  Bahraini riot police on March 16 drove protesters from
their rallying point in the capital Manama a month after mainly
Muslim Shiites began to call for democracy. The government
declared a three-month state of emergency and arrested activists
and doctors after Saudi-led Gulf troops arrived in the country
to provide support as police quelled the demonstrations.  The Salmaniya Medical Complex, where many injured Bahrainis
were taken during protests, had become a shelter for
demonstrators during the unrest. Doctors provided information on
the number of dead and wounded they treated after security
forces broke up demonstrations.  The government accused the medical staff of using the
Salmaniya complex “for the activities of the saboteurs who
sought to spread chaos, cause disruptions and trouble and create
sedition within the kingdom,” the authority said in the
statement.  More than 30 Bahraini medical workers disappeared during
the crackdown,  Physicians for Human Rights  said on April 22.
There was “hard evidence of systematic and coordinated attacks
against medical personnel because of their efforts to provide
unbiased care for wounded protesters,” the group said.  At least 21 people were killed during the crackdown,
according to the Bahrain Human Rights Society.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  